549 BUDGET was obtained on a monthly basis, and had no relation to permanent, posts in the Secretariat. [92] Miss LAISE (United States of America) asked whetherfield staff could assist in the survey for the research institute, thus permitting economy in fees. [93] Mrs. MYRDAL(Director, Departmentof Social Sciehces) replied that field staff would be used to stimulate action and obtain information for the survey, but that their knowledge of the various COMMITTEE VIII-7 regions—particularly during their first year of office—was insufficient to enable them to undertake the real survey work required. [94] The CHAIRMAN suggested that Miss Laise’s general remark should be noted in the report of the Committee. [95] Agreed. The meeting rose at 1.5 p.m. EIGHTH MEETING Thursday, 14 June 1951, at 3.30 p.m. Chairman: Mr. F. Benper (Netherlands) Examination of the Budget Estimates (con- tinuation) [document 6C/5 (IT) ]. Social Sciences (continuation) (Part III.3). APPLIED SOCIAL Sciences (continuation) (I11.3.C). Methods to Overcome Social Tensions (page 147). [1] Mr. WYNES (Australia) stated that his Gov- ernment did not think the proposed study was so urgent that it needed to be finished in 1952, and therefore suggested that three countries should be studied in 1952 and three in 1953. His Government also considered the appointment of a consultant to direct and synthesize the surveys was unnecessary. [2] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences) explained that it was never possible to promise precisely when such a survey could be terminated, but that the Department had found it impracticable to start planning for three countries only. It had been found more convenient to plan for all of them together, so as to obtain a better co-ordinated programme of research. The work itself would in fact extend beyond 1952, but it would be necessary to conclude contracts in that year. It would be noted that the eventual publica- tions resulting from the work were not included in the budget for 1952. [3] The consultant in question would be re- sponsible for comparing and synthesizing studies of the different countries carried out by various organ-
1zations. [4] The CHAIRMAN wondered whether it was proposed to hand over the work to any specific organizations, and whether there were enough scientists and research workers available to do it efficiently. He asked whether the project would be seriously harmed it the budget were to be reduced by the General Conference to, say, $10,000. [6] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences) replied that no definite decision had yet been taken regarding the organizations to be brought in to help in the enquiry, although it was known to be of interest to some of them, including the larger national research councils. [6] The project would certainly suffer serious harm if its budget were to be reduced to the extent pro- posed by the Chairman. If the Department had thought it possible to obtain the same results with a smaller budget, it would have made a proposal to that effect from the beginning. It was true that the costs might be distributed over several years, but there was definite value in being able to plan the programme as an integrated whole. The Department felt that the time had come to make an inventory of the methods used in different countries to overcome social tensions. It was a project which would be highly valuable to many other countries besides those under study. [7] Miss LAISE (United States of America) wondered whether it would be possible to concentrate in depth rather than spreading over so large an area. [8] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social      VIII-8 BUDGET Sciences) said that the final aim was to produce a book describing both official and non-official measures taken in the countries under study, includ- ing legislative measures and steps taken to combat the causes of social tensions in schools, communities, voluntary organizations, etc. For such studies, the limitation to six countries seemed an absolute minimum, as conditions varied from country to country. [9] Mr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) thought Unesco should be given an opportunity of carrying out practical work in that field. Such a survey could not yield worth-while results unless it were based on comparative data from a sufficient number of countries. He accordingly suggested that the Com- mittee should allow the study to be carried out as suggested in the programme. [10] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) agreed with the Egyptian delegate. In his opinion, great freedom of action should be allowed to those carrying out the survey, as the question was of much importance at the present time. Only after the enquiry had been completed would precise information be available as a guide for future action. [11] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) stated that the French National Commission had a high opinion of the first pamphlets on the methods employed to alleviate social tensions. He would therefore not ask for a reduction in the budget for that section. [12] The CHAIRMAN had merely wished to see on which items savings could be made. He accordingly considered the discussion on that section closed and submitted the following section (Migration) for discussion. Migration (page 148). [13] Mr. DURING (Sweden) considered that the fees proposed for the specialists seemed unnecessarily high. : [14] Mr. WYNES (Australia) had wanted to raise the same point, and also to suggest that the proposal to give contracts to non-governmental organizations should be abandoned. He asked for further infor- mation about the conference referred to in the last sentence of the paragraph, and about the $4,000 for the production of pamphlets. [15] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences) observed that the first survey mentioned in the paragraph under consideration represented the essential aim of Unesco’s work in the field. It was also a follow-up of the activities of previous years. With regard to the remainder of the paragraph, the activities of the Department were regarded as sup- COMMITTEE plementary to those of the United Nations and Specialized Agencies. The International Labour Organization, for example, had long had an impor- tant programme on migration. A programme of work had been agreed at earlier meetings, and Unesco had been asked to participate in the pre- paration of reports and the collection of information regarding the possibilities of assimilation by recipi- ent countries. The consultants mentioned in the paragraph would go to the countries indicated in ILO’s programme of action; Mrs. Myrdal felt that the fees were not excessive, since field work was called for. [16] With regard to the conference referred to by Mr. Wynes, Mrs. Myrdal recalled that a conference on the cultural assimilation of migrants had been contemplated earlier, but that Unesco had been asked to undertake responsibility for one item on the agenda of the conference in 1952, similar to the one to be held in Italy in the current year. That matter had also been arranged in agreement with ILO. [17] The pamphlets mentioned in the paragraph had been asked for by the Second Conference of Non-Governmental Organizations interested in migra- tion, held in Geneva early in 1951, and would supplement ILO Information Services to migrants. At the United Nations Social Commission’s meeting in March, a joint United Nations-Specialized Agencies questionnaire on migrants had been under discussion, but it had been decided finally that the United Nations should relinquish responsibility for the question to ILO and Unesco. Unesco’s action was conditional on collaboration with ILO and it was necessary to make preparations, even if the confer- ence were finally held later. [18] The CHAIRMAN continued to share Mr. Di- ring’s view that the amount of $10,000 provided for the fees of two consultants was rather high. He asked whether the posts were temporary, and who paid the travelling expenses. [19] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) stated that, throughout the budget, where travel was involved for the recipient of a fee, the cost was included in the fee and was never shown as a separate item of expenditure. [20] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences) said that the countries most likely to request the type of service under consideration in the paragraph were the Latin American countries and Canada, which had not been the subject of earlier Unesco studies. [21] Mr. WYNES (Australia) felt that, although the amount involved was small, a question of principle arose. His Government could not under-   Sci tha sid Sci lat [2e in cul que
1ts res De, ear [27 Cor sho doc [28 Tes aga wh and tior and tha
551 BUDGET stand why Unesco should need experts to prepare working papers for a meeting. If the conference was called primarily by ILO, the latter might surely also provide the experts. The Australian Gov- ernment was greatly concerned at the increased number of experts and consultants engaged by Unesco, and feared the consequences of that trend. He had definite instructions to raise the question throughout the Budget Committee's work, and he thought that other delegates shared his concern. [22] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) asked the name of the international non-governmental organization that was to be granted a contract of $4,000 to carry out a general comparative study of the part played by immigrants in enriching culture and developing international understanding. [23] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) wondered whether the Australian Government considered that fees were specifically bad expenditure and that the money could be better spent in other ways. [24] Mr. WYNES (Australia) explained that his Government felt that at least some of the work could be done by the Secretariat. It was not suggested that all experts should be eliminated, but merely that a fair amount of the work should be possible with existing resources. [25] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences), replying to Mr. Guignolet’s question, said that the non-governmental organization under con- sideration was the International Union for the Scientific Study of Population. It might be possible later to distribute the work still further. [26] With regard to the fees for specialists mentioned in the last sentence of the paragraph and, in parti- cular, to the report on the joint ILO-Unesco questionnaire, it would be impossible for the Department of Social Sciences to do the work with its own staff of six programme specialists, who were responsible for all the other activities of the Department as well as for those outstanding from earlier programmes. [27] The CHAIRMAN proposed to note in the Committee’s report a recommendation that ILO should take over some of the work of preparing documents for the conference. [28] Miss LAISE (United States of America) reserved the right to take up Mr. Wynes” proposal again at the end of the chapter. It was a question which also interested the United States Government, and she was prepared to give some specific indica- tions with regard to the possible reduction of experts and consultants; she did not think it fair, however, that the criticism should necessarily be applied to COMMITTEE VIII-8 the Department of Social Sciences only, or to that particular section of its work. [29] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) enquired whether the international organization entrusted with the comparative study referred to in that section was to receive an additional subvention of $4,000 to carry out work for which it had already received a sub- vention of $2,000. [30] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences) replied in the affirmative. [31] Mr. TAYLOR (Deputy Director-General) pointed out that the distribution of the work had been arranged in advance with ILO and the United Nations Social Commission, and could not well be reduced if Unesco was to carry out the work which it had been asked to undertake. [32] Mrs. MYRDAL(Director, Department of Social Sciences) explained that the questionnaire to be sent to governments contained several chapters, the first few of which referred to matters of concern to ILO, while the later ones referred to matters of concern to Unesco, such as cultural assimilation, educational and religious facilities in the recipient countries, etc. The International Labour Organization would in any case do its part of the work. If Unesco were unable to do its share, that part would simply fall out. [33] Mr. WYNES (Australia) explained that his objection to the employment of consultants and experts was not directed specifically against the proposal made in the chapter under consideraion. [34] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) drew the Committee's attention to the importance of the question under discussion. From his knowledge of ILO, he thought it would be most valuable for Unesco to collaborate in that Organization’s work; by reason of its structure and traditions, ILO was concerned with practical problems, whereas Unesco dealt with broader issues in their human aspect. It would be necessary to combine both approaches to achieve the requisite synthesis. Effects of Industrialization (page 148). [35] Mr. DÜRING (Sweden) admitted that it was very difficult, it not impossible, for the Committee to judge the reasonableness of the estimate of $16,000 for fees, but, after comparing it with fees in other paragraphs, he wondered whether it was justified. [36] Mr. Diiring also asked whether the first para- graph of the note under item 3.26 of the programme [document C/5(I), page 67] indicated that no request for such activity had yet been received from a
7111-8 BUDGET Member State. If that were so, was it reasonable that Unesco should set out to look for problems instead of dealing with those which already existed? [37] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences) explained that the amount of specialists’ fees depended on the length of time for which they were engaged, and the extent to which preparatory work had already been done, or to which new ground had to be broken in the survey under con- sideration. In the case at issue, the specialist would have to try and establish local research groups, as had been done in India the previous year, and the activity should be regarded from the wider point of view of training in addition to that of immediate results. у [38] With regard to Mr. Diiring’s second question, it was true that no request had so far been received for such a survey, but that was generally the case until Governments became aware of the existence of a programme activity. At least one country had, however, expressed great interest in the proposal, and Mrs. Myrdal was sure that many more would be affected, since about one quarter of Unesco’s Members were newly independent States and were faced with tremendous problems of internal integra- tion. Such a study would also be of general benefit to the work of Unesco. [39] Mr. DURING (Sweden) thanked Mrs. Myrdal for her explanations, but felt that the proposal based on Resolution 3.26 necessarily had budgetary implications. Since no request had yet been received from Member States, he asked whether it would not be better that the General Conference should decide on the desirability of such a study, and that appropriation should be deferred until a definite request had been received and its cost was known. [40] The CHAIRMAN agreed that it was for the Programme Commission to decide whether the study should be carried out in 1952, but the Budget Com- mittee was required to decide whether or not it seemed reasonable. Speaking as a representative of the Netherlands, he said that he, like Mr. Diiring, would have difficulty in persuading his people at home of the need for a project of the- kind, which might necessitate future expenditure. [41] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) asked the name of the non-governmental organization which was being granted a subvention of $10,000 in the form of a contract to undertake a study of the consequences of industrialization in Africa. [42] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences) did not think that any organization would actually benefit from the arrangement; but the one which the Secretariat expected to do most was the COMMITTEE 552 International African Institute, which would con- tribute its own resources to the project. [43] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) suggested that the expenditure of the funds should be made conditional on the receipt of a bona fide request from a Member State. [44] Agreed. Problems Faced by Newly Independent States in Participating in Internationl Organization (page 149). [45] Replying to a question from Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Depart- ment of Social Sciences) said that the Technical Assistance Programme did not provide for the type of assistance in question, which required not technical advice, but the elucidation of conditions. The idea was to follow up an earlier project carried out in fourteen Member States (many of which were old States) on national administration and inter- national organization. There again, while no spe- cific requests had been received from Member States, definite suggestions had been made to the Secretariat by the Secretaries of various National Commissions, and it was thought that such a study might render great services. The Secretariat had not, however, thought that it could continue such talks until the activity had been authorized; it would be glad to know whether it should have gone further and made promises in such a case. [46] In reply to the CHAIRMAN, Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Di- rector-General) gave the breakdown of the $12,000 for assistance to Member States, for each expert: Fees, $700 a month for six months. Travel to and from the Member State, $1,200. Allowance for personal equipment, $300. Insurance, etc., $300. [47] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) noted that a pre- liminary meeting of representatives of the United Nations, other Specialized Agencies and Unesco was to be held in 1951, as well as a meeting of experts in 1952, to consider the problems faced by newly independent States in regard to their participation in the system of international co-operation. The summary of operations for Resolution 3.32 in the draft programme for 1952 specified that the report of the Committee of Experts would “serve as a basis for discussion at a bigger conference to be convened by Unesco, in association with the United Nations and Specialized Agencies, in 1953”. By agreeing at that stage to the holding of those preliminary meetings, the Committee might be committing not only Unesco but the other Specialized Agencies and the Economic and Social Council to considerable _ — — ,—o l — . o o . G - s u e o o — — ] Ñ — — ] ] — ; — ! — — C — — — — ] T — Ñ _ — ل ل خ ح ل ح ح ا و ح . ا ل ح و ‎ u e   [4 ize: int for not Ag ber the Sec pro bee Rig [49 (Di the pro Ass sub so wo
007 tion cres cert adn incr of 1 [50] gen sub orga conf the to w for cont tion: cont out vent total] with othe cont [51] Scie sidie the cont; been
553 BUDGET expenditure in the future. He asked whether the other Agencies were to share in the discussions and the expenses, since it was a matter of closer concern to them than to Unesco. [48] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences) said that the United Nations and Special- ized Agencies would participate in the project. An inter-Secretariat meeting was already contemplated for 1951. The project had been brought to the notice of the United Nations and Specialized Agencies in the draft programme issued in Novem- ber 1950, and no objections had been raised; on the contrary participation had been promised. The Secretariat could not commit itself to holding the proposed conference in 1953, but the proposal had been mentioned to show the continuity of the work. Rights of Women (page 149). [49] In reply to the CHAIRMAN, Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences) said that the international non-governmental organization proposed was the International Political Science Association, but others might also participate. The subvention already received by the Association was so scaled that part of the administrative expenses would be covered, but such work could not be covered by that subvention. The various organiza- tions had undertaken to support Unesco, and to create wider interest in its work, more especially in certain specific aspects of it. They had only one administrative secretary, but the Secretariat was increasingly trying to use the organizations instead of hiring experts or research groups. [50] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) wished to make a general observation: the budget listed a number of subventions granted to various inter-governmental organizations, but there was no list of proposed contracts with those organizations. He appreciated the difficulty of giving the names of organizations to which recourse might be had, butit was necessary for the Committee to have before it a list of contracts, which would show that certain organiza- lions were receiving subventions in addition to contracts which should easily enable them to carry out the work requested without the initial sub- vention. That general question, which involved a total of $284,000 and $527,000, arose in connexion with all the Unesco Departments collaborating with other organizations by means of subventions and contracts, [51] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences) replied that the organizations receiving sub- sidies were listed in the programme and budget. In the present case she might give a tentative list of contracts also, but until the contracts had actually been concluded she could not commit herself to COM MI TT EE 7111-8 stating which organizations would be employed. It was, however, not so much the non-governmental organizations which benefited from the contracts, as Unesco itself. Many of them in fact contributed considerable sums towards the projects on which they were engaged. [62] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) noted that $36,700 were allocated for the travel of staff in the Social Sciences Department and, since only 18 out of the total of 29 members actually travelled, he wondered whether Mrs. Myrdal was satisfied that they could combine that travel with their day-to-day work. [53] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) pointed out that the heading “Travel on official business” covered consultants, staff members, and the staff of Field Science Co-operation Offices. [54] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences) was completely satisfied with the figures from the point of view of programme activities. The budget for travel was, in any case, much smaller than in the previous year. The staff of Field Science Co-operation Offices had clearly to travel within their areas, and since the Office nearest to headquarters was that in Cairo, it was evident that a considerable part of the expenditure was taken up in such journeys. The distances covered were great, but the time spent in travel relatively small. It was one of the main and most important tasks of the Department to extend its work to the more distant and under-developed parts of the world. [55] Mr. RAADI (Iran) obsérved that contracts to the value of $9,000 had been provided for the pre- paration of a report on women’s exercise of their political rights, with special reference to countries where those rights had recently been granted to them. He did not deny the value of that appropria- tion; but he also noted that a contract of $3,000 was to be granted to institute similar research on the special situation of women in Germany and the use they made of their political rights. Since various experts had already carried out extensive studies of that question, he thought it might be possible to cancel, or at least to reduce, the grant of $3,000 by arranging for a synthesis of the various studies. [66] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences) observed that the studies already made in Germany related to different points of time, and the many changes which had occurred since they had been made necessitated the acquisition of new information to fill in the gaps and cover new aspects. The idea had been to contract for the work with the new Unesco Social Science Institute in Germany. Since the project had been developed, however, the
7 VIII-8 EUD GET status of Germany seemed likely to change, and it was possible that the study might therefore be under- taken in a different country. Such a change would not, however, affect the budgetary situation. Cultural Activities (Part 111.4). PROGRAMME Cosrs (IIT.4.A) (page 155). No comment.[57]   Unesco Library (III.4.B) (page 157). h [58] No comment. | Ш DEVELOPMENT OF INTERNATIONAL CULTURAL CO-OPERA- NES ; TION (III.4.C). Il Assistance to International Non-Governmental Organ- izations (page 159).
1 [59] The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the largest | sum involved was the subvention to the International | + Council for Philosophy and Humanistic Studies, and TT that a detailed table would be found on page 308 (Table IX). [60] Mr. WYNES (Australia) thought it unneces- sary to increase any subventions. [61] Mr: DÜRING (Sweden) understood that there were many new local branches of the International Theatre Institute, and wondered whether the sub- vention might not be reduced by, say, $10,000. [62] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) admitted that subventions to international non-governmental organizations were in a few cases being increased, but it would be wrong to think that all those organizations were receiving an additional subvention. He felt bound to draw attention to the fact that it was the Director- General's considered policy to delegate responsibili- ties, to an increasing extent, to such international organizations as had proved capable of taking over the execution of part of the work laid down in the programme. Unesco’s work in the domain of music, for instance, was being reduced, thus in- volving a corresponding reduction in expenditure for staff, publications, surveys, etc. Such reductions were possible owing to the transfer of work to the International Music Council. [63] With regard to the International Theatre Institute, it had just held in Oslo its annual con- ference, which had been attended by delegations from India, Indonesia and Japan. Most of the national centres had been obliged to point out that, in the following year, they would be unable to afford the same expenditure. It was obvious that theatres il most keenly interested in cultural work were not the COMMITTEE most successful from the commercial point of view. It would accordingly be unwise to reduce the sub- vention to the International Theatre Institute as long as that Institute was not self-supporting. [64] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) could only concur in that particular instance, since the French National Commission had examined the various subventions separately and had acknowledged their justification. [65] Mr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) agreed. However, he requested particulars regarding the granting of a subvention of $1,000 to the International Association of Art Critics for assistance in holding an inter national congress. He wished to know the criteria on which an art critic worthy of the name was selected. [66] Mr. RAADI (Iran) also approved the principle of granting subsidies to non-governmental organiza- tions, as well as the policy Unesco had adopted, enabling it to delegate its tasks, while giving such organizations a fuller awareness of their inter: national responsibilities. However, he felt bound to point out that the socially and economically backward countries had not been able to organize their National Commissions and set up non: governmental organizations. Accordingly, they were unable to benefit from such work or to receive any part of the subsidies granted. Mr. Raadi therefore wished to have an assurance from the Secretariat that, in allocating subventions, Unesco would urge the recipient organizations to develop their activities in those countries where they were particularly needed. If Unesco did not stress that point, what measures would be taken to that end? [67] The CHAIRMAN asked why the subsidy 0 the International Music Council was almost doubled. He wondered whether the small amount from outside sources denoted a lack of interest. [68] Miss LAISE (United States of America) thought it might be easier to judge the proposed figures if the Committee could have details of the expenditures and activities of the various organiza tions in 1950. [69] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) replied first to the delegate of Egypt. The responsibility of deciding whether any particular expert in aesthetics was a good or bad art critic, rested not with the Department of Cultural Activities but with the International Assoc ation of Art Critics, established three years pr“ viously, with a Bureau consisting of experts known and respected all over the world. The small subvention requested for that Association would be of considerable assistance. It had already given the   ———_—.‏Ceنتجخي
10501 seven cerni effec likew the f for s true most profil tariaf wide] [71] Mr] natio is activi In 1 recor under spon to th did n be se been [72] Gener accou] gover utiliza tions Comm [73] to a gram] that i ‎طع in 19 Gener,    BUULV GET COMMITTEE Department of Cultural Activities extremely pertinent and valuable advice. [70] Replying to the delegate of Iran, Mr. Thomas said that the Secretariat had always made a point of drawing the attention of non-governmental organ- izations to the need for extending their activities beyond Europe and America. Decided progress had already been made in that direction. The Pan- American Institute of Geography and History had that year joined the International Council for Phi- losophy and Humanistic Studies and had suggested several most interesting projects. A project con- cerning African culture was also being carried into effect. The Pan-American Indian Institute was likewise developing. Lastly, the Council had taken the first steps towards the setting up of an Institute for studies of the South Seas. It was none the less true that it was the long-established associations, mostly situated in Europe and America, which profited from Unesco’s collaboration; but the Secre- tariat was taking care that their work would be more widely publicized. [71] With regard to the Chairman’s question, Mr. Thomas felt obliged to point out that the Inter- national Music Council justified its existence through its work since the Secretariat’s corresponding activities had been deleted from the programme. In 1951, over $12,000 had been provided for the recording of folk music and contemporary music under the Secretariat’s responsibility. That ге- sponsibility had in the current year been transferred to the International Music council. It accordingly did not appear in the budget, from which, it could be seen, a post for a Grade 14 specialist had also been deleted. [72] Lastly, he mentioned that the Director- General’s report on the programme gave a detailed account of the work carried out by the non- governmental organizations. A statement on the utilization of the funds granted to those organiza- tions would be communicated to the Budget Committee. [73] Miss LAISE (United States of America) agreed to a suggestion from Mr. HODSON (Head, Pro- gramme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) that it would suffice to compare the expenditures of the international non-governmental organizations in 1950 with the activities described in the Director- General's Report. Publications (page 160). [74] The CHAIRMAN suggested that the matter might be discussed later in the light of the special documents which were to be made available. [75] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) noted that in Table X, the International Review of the Arts appeared as a quarterly publication, published com- mercially. Did that mean that the sales price covered printing and distribution costs? [76] Secondly, reference was made to the publica- tion of documents on the cultural relations between the East and West. Could not their publication be deferred? Lastly, the programme contemplated the publication of a handbook on methods of teaching the visual arts, after the seminar which was shortly to be held in Bristol. It was necessary to make sure that the documents in question were worth publishing. For instance, Unesco had, prior to the seminar on the teaching of Geography, published an excellent pamphlet which, moreover, did not commit the Organization to support the views expressed. The pamphlet published after the seminar was far less valuable and did commit Unesco. There should be no recurrence of such a situation. [77] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) replied that the International Review of the Arts was not being issued, owing to the insuperable difficulties Unesco had encountered in its negotiations with the American publisher. It would rest with the Conference to decide whether the publication should be continued, despite existing difficulties, or deferred. Accordingly, there was no provision for its cost in the 1952 budget. [78] The symposium to be held in India the fol- lowing December on the cultural relations between East and West had been most carefully prepared. Mr. Thomas hoped that the standing of the parti- cipants and the importance of the subject would warrant the conclusion of a contract for publishing the findings of the discussions. A seminar on the teaching of the visual arts was to be held in Bristol the following month. Unesco trusted that, like all previous seminars, that particular seminar would lead to conclusions worth embodying in a publica- tion for wide circulation; the cost of the publication would be included in the 1953 budget. The meeting rose at 6.30 p.m. e e R L N a A = = . = m i F E = = g a
7111-9 в Поет СОМ МЕ NINTH MEETING [13 Friday, 15 June 1951, at 10 a.m. a Chairman: Mr. F. Benner (Netherlands) sho req [14 dou pro wo Examination of the Budget Estimates (con- figure given in the “Budget Estimates”. He asked the 0 tinuation) [document 6C/5 (II) ]. reason for that discrepancy. 0 Cultural Activities (continuation) (Part III.4). [9] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural e Activities) gave the exact details of the estimates for DEVELOPMENT OF INTERNATIONAL CULTURAL Co-OPERA- the wole of Chapter 111.4. of the Budget: TION (continuation) (1I1.4.C). $ [16 Pro цве! wol Meeting of Advisory Committee on Monu- Round-Table Discussions (page 161). mente. + “ar a > - esol Mission of experts . - ‎م „10,000 [1] The CHAIRMAN requested the names of the International Convention of the establish- two non-governmental organizations with which ment of an international Fund for the    its 1 contracts were to be signed, and the proportion of preservation of museums, monuments [17 the total estimate to be allotted to each of them. and other cultural ‎ةقففاف 4000 фсе] Travel costs for all those activities . . ٠‎ 3,000 Pro [2] Mr. WYNES (Australia) said his Government Sundries (renting of vehicles, etc.) . - ٠‎ 140 cha felt that the holding of one discussion meeting in — and
1952 would be sufficient, and suggested postpone- Total 17,340 [18 that acti serv bein ment of the second until 1953. [10] Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom) felt that [3] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural the sum of $10,000 appeared excessive for a small Activities) explained that the budget was made up of mission of three persons for a period of three months. the following items: $4,500 for the Permanent Com- mittee of the “Rencontres de Gendve”, and $5,500 [11] That view was supported by Mr. WYNES for the European Society for Culture. (Australia) and Miss LAISE (United States of Amer- [4] Mr. Thomas added that two different meetings ica), who suggested further that, whereas Unesco were involved, and that the Conference would have should stimulate such activities, the actual cost to decide whether both should be kept on the pro- should be borne by the interested Member States. gramme. [12] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) pointed out that it was difficult to give definite figures until the site of the mission had been decided. The estimates given, which were based  [19] Offi Gen alre the [5] The CHAIRMAN suggested that the Committee e should defer further discussion of the item until it   | | | | | | | | | | | ВЕ | Kin | | | | | | | | | | | US had received the definite resolutions from the Pro- 1111 [20] ‎ل gramme Commission. on the cost of the mission sent to Cuzco, were only to i approximate. As regarded fees, $2,500 were ear ‎ا
0 [6] Agreed. marked for the head of the mission, whilst the other Sped E two members were to receive $1,500, i.e., a total of p
0 International Congress of the Arts (page 161). $5,500 in all. Travelling costs for three people, from | [21] № their homes to the site of the mission, had been | Offi [7] There was no comment on that item. estimated at $1,900; insurance and costs of printing Pro the report, at $1,600; and finally miscellaneous 0 PRESERVATION OF THE CULTURAL HERITAGE or MANKIND expenses (communications, equipment, etc.) at shou $1,000, or a total of $10,000 in all. The principle (I11.4.D). \ followed in estimating the costs of all missions Was [22] Preservation of Monuments and Convention on Pro- the same: Unesco paid the fees of the experts, their Cult tection of Monuments (pages 164 and 165). travelling expenses to the site of the mission, and od the cost of books, maps, etc., whilst the beneficiary Thon [8] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) pointed to a dis- country was responsible for the maintenance costs of | Dire crepancy between the total estimate for the chapter, the mission, the travel of members of the mission the | as given in the “Draft Programme for 1952” and the within the country, and secretarial expenses. who
557 BUDGET [13] It was for the Programme Commission to decide on the project itself. Mr. Thomas said that, in response to a request from Peru, a mission would shortly be sent there; Unesco had also received other requests. [14] In conclusion, Mr. Thomas, did not share the doubts expressed regarding the effectiveness of the project; but added that a decision on the question would be made elsewhere. [15] Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom) felt that the question was whether or not Unesco was receiving the maximumvalue for its money; he maintained his original criticism. [16] The CHAIRMAN pointed out that it was the Programme Commission’s business to discuss the usefulness of the missions; the Budget Committee would, however, note the remarks of the United Kingdom, Australian and United States delegates in its report, [17] Mr. RAADI (Iran) noticed that provision had been made for a Legal Officer for 1952, instead of a Programme Specialist. He asked the reason for that change The delegates of the UNITED KINGDOM and AUSTRALIA asked the same question. [18] Miss LAISE (United States of America) said that she would go further and suggest that all legal activities should be centralized in the responsible service, the estimates for individual Departments being correspondingly reduced. [19] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) said that the Director- General agreed emphatically with that view, and had already arranged for the transfer of the function to the Legal Service, the post in the Cultural Activi- ties Department being allocated to a Programme Specialist. [20] Miss LAISE (United States of America) did not understand how a post for a Legal Specialist could suddenly become a post for a Programme Specialist. Such action required justification. [21] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) said that a Grade 12 Programme Specialist was required for the project, and suggested that the Director of the Department should be asked for a detailed explanation. [22] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) explained that the Department had decided that a specialist on the preservation of monuments was needed and had applied to the Director-General for such a specialist to carry out the project. It had been hoped to find a specialist who had also had legal training, but experience had COMMITTEE VHI-9 shown the difficulty of finding persons combining the two qualifications. Since the Director-General thought it would be impraticable to attach a legal specialist for each section of the programme, he had decided to place them all under the supervision of the Legal Adviser. [23] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) thought that the protection of monuments was a complicated question, both from the legal and from the military point of view. [24] First, it had to be decided whether the monument in question belonged to the State, the Municipality or the Commune, as might be the case in Cuba, for example. It was therefore essential to have a legal officer but, in view of the military considerations involved in the protection of monu- ments, advice and information from a military technician were also needed. [25] The representative of Cuba thought that the problem had been too superficially treated in the draft resolution concerning the protection of monu- ments. The practical means of guaranteeing such protection had not been sufficiently clearly outlined. [26] The CHAIRMAN said that the question should more properly be raised in the Programme Com- mission. [27] Agreed. PROTECTION or WRITERS AND Artists (II1.4.E). Copyright (page 168). [28] Mr. WYNES (Australia) asked why it was not proposed to hold the inter-governmental Conference in Paris. His Government strongly recommended the reversal of that decision in order to effect substantial economies. Further, he challenged, as unnecessary, the appropriation for Fees in connexion’ with that Conference. [29] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) agreed. [30] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) reminded the meeting that the International Union for the Protec- tion of Literary and Artistic Works, Berne, had long studied those problems, and issued a publication: Copyright; he asked whether the Secretariat had called upon the Union to co-operate. [31] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities), in reply to the Australian and Cuban delegates, said that the Expert Committee, meeting in Washington in October and Novem- ber 1950, had recognized the advantage of holding the inter-governmental conference in a Member State, on a joint invitation issued by that State and Unesco. Although he was bound to observe a certain dis-     VIII-9 BUDGET cretion until a decision had been reached by the General Conference, Mr. Thomas said that a Member State was prepared to issue a formal invitation, and that all the parties concerned appeared to be prepared to accept that proposal. [32] As regarded cost, an estimate had been drawn up by the Bureau of Conference Planning for a Conference in two languages, which would last one month and would require additional staff (inter- preters, translators, minute-writers, etc.). Mr. Tho- mas assured the Committee that Unesco would work in close co-operation with the Berne Union, with which a working agreement had already been concluded, and approved by the Executive Board. All precautions had been taken to ensure that the Unesco Convention would not overlap the Berne Convention. [33] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) asked whether, after such minute preparation, the Conference really needed to last so long; Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) assured him that the technical problem involved had been thoroughly investigated, as Unesco had already been engaged on the work for two years, and had received a large number of replies from Member States. The period of 30 days was, no doubt, arbitrary, but it was based on the experience of a Conference which had been held in 1948 for the revision of the Berne Conven- tion, and which had taken four weeks to complete its work. [34] The CHAIRMAN wanted to know what would be the difference in cost between a Conference held in Paris and one held elsewhere. [35] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) said that the difference would not be very great. The Conference would doubtless be held in Geneva, since Switzerland had played a predominating role in work on copyright. There was also a psychological factor in favour of Switzerland; since certain countries who were signatories of the Berne Convention might be uneasy lest the Unesco Convention might contradict it, the fact that the invitation was issued jointly by Unesco and Switzer- land would provide the most striking proof that the two Convention were intended to be complementary, and not contradictory. In conclusion, Mr. Thomas said that the travelling costs of members of the Secretariat would be fairly low; he was prepared to have estimates drawn up for presentation to the Com- mittee. [36] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) appre- ciated that it was sometimes necessary to seek the assistance of outside bodies, when the Secretariat was either overworked or did not possess experts com- petent in certain fields; he asked whether it was one of those reasons that had necessitated the provision COMMITTEE 558 for a contract with the International Literary and Artistic Association. [37] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities), reminded the meeting that the International Literary and Artistic Association, which had been in existence for 80 years, had initiated all the work carried out on copyright, including the Berne Convention. It also had the advantage of including among its members, authors, publishers and lawyers. At Unesco’s request, the Association had set up a Committee to study certain technical problems and had published the results of the work in Copyright. It was therefore proposed to con- tinue collaboration in the current year, under a contract for the study of technical problems. It was one of Unesco's fundamental tasks to standardize copyright regulations throughout the world. [38] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) asked whether it had been definitely decided that the Inter-governmental Con- ference of Experts should last 30 days, or whether that was an approximate figure. [39] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities), replied that the duration of the Conference had been estimated as accurately as pos- sible, in order to allow for the Convention to be drawn up, adopted and signed by the delegates to the Conference, who would be empowered to do so. [40] In accordance with the wishes of the Con- ference, the Committee of Copyright Specialists, attached to the various delegations, would begin work on 18 June 1951. The Committee would be instructed to draw up a report, based on the Programme, the Report of the Director-General and the recommendations of the Conference, for submis- sion to the Programme Commission. [41] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) said that it was precisely because he knew that the Committee of Copyright Specialists was to meet during the following week that he was asking on what basis it had been calculated that the inter-governmental conference would last 30 days; he, for his part, had not come across any mention of that in any of the printed documents. Mr. Brull thought that the Committee of Copyright Specialists should be left to decide that point. [42] The CHAIRMAN noted that the reasons for holding the conference appeared valid, and that the decreased cost of holding it in Paris rather than Geneva was negligible. The Committee could note in its report that certain delegates queried the estimate of 30 days for the duration of the COD ference.
559 Diss [43] the Teac [44] Popt [45] the e [46] Cultı purc. of 5( The into . Tran [47] Cultu estim to re in fa ment upat The also $ [48] whetl betwe that subsi view | trans] for th [49] Cultus on th up the sion, betwe the de submi makin Unesc zation prove cussed There Spanis ficient moreo , . — — — — — … m . . . . . … . m . m . . … … . . . "
50 Онт DISSEMINATION OF CULTURE (III.4.F). [43] The CHAIRMAN noted the large increase in the section over 1951. Teaching of Philosophy (page 172). [44] No comments. Popularization of the Arts (page 173). [45] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) asked for details of the estimate of $15,000 for “Other contractual items”. [46] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) said that that sum was to cover purchases for, and organization of 15 exhibitions of 50 reproductions, at $1,000 for each exhibition. The costs of framing and packing had to be taken into account. Translation of Great Works (page 173). [47] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities), pointing out that the budget estimates contained an error, asked the Committee to refer to the text of the Draft Programme. It was in fact a question not of contracts with non-govern- mental organizations but of a joint Commission set up atBeirut by Unesco and the Lebanese Government. The contribution of the Lebanese Government was also $10,000. [48] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) wondered whether there was absolutely no risk of duplication between the activity of Unesco in that field, and that of many national Governments which were subsidizing translations. He also asked whether, in view of the long time it took to produce a first-class translation, it was sure that the total funds requested for the item would be used in 1952. [49] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) admitted that the system adopted, on the instructions of the Conference, for drawing up the programmeof translations was open to discus- sion. The method of contracts and agreements between Unesco and the governments concerned had the defect of being slow; an amendment was to be submitted to the current Conference with a view to making the system more flexible, and enabling Unesco to co-operate with non-governmental organi- zations and publishing firms. That procedure might Prove to be more efficient, but it had first to be dis- cussed by the Executive Board and the Conference. There were many plans for translations into Arabic, Spanish, Persian and Italian, plans which were suf- ficiently extensive to justify the estimates and which, moreover, had been worked out very carefully. COMMITTEE УШ-9 [60] The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the Com- mittee could not discuss the merits of the proposed ‘programme, but Sir Frank Harby’s remarks would be noted in the report. Museum Seminar (page 173). [61] Mr. WYNES (Australia) sought the assurance of the Secretariat that it was wise to hold the seminar in a hard-currency area. [62] Mr. KRSTIC (Yugoslavia), associating himself with that request, felt that it would be just as effective, and more economical, to organize the seminar in Europe. [63] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) said that the United States of America had been proposed because of the important educational role played by the museums in that country. A certain town and institution had been selected for the site of the seminar because of the excellent results obtained there; a seminar held there would gain enormously in instructive value. It was for similar reasons that a seminar of librarians had been held the year before in Sweden—a country which was very advanced in that sphere. [64] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France), supported by Mr. EL DIWANY (Egypt), asked whether the estimate of $8,000 for the Museum Seminar was intended to cover living allowances as well as travel- ling expenses; it was not very clear from the text. [55] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) explained that there was no separate object of expenditure for per diem payments. If Unesco made direct per diem payments to a specialist or consultants, they were charged under “Travel of Delegates”, and if a contract were made with an hotel for board and lodging, it was charged to “Miscellaneous Costs”. [56] The CHAIRMAN appreciated that certain museum activities were more developed in the United States, but felt that the American experts might be brought to Europe, instead of transporting all the other seminar participants to the United States. In any case, he requested the Secretariat to prepare alternative estimates showing the total cost of the seminar if it were to be organized in Europe. [57] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) was, of course, prepared to draw up the estimates asked for, but reminded the meeting that Unesco was supposed to extend its activities over the world and not to hold all its seminars in Paris. He stressed the value of such seminars, and thought that Paris was not the best place for a demonstration of the educational role of museums.    VIII-9 BUDGET [58] The Committee decided to include in its report the suggestions which had been put forward on the subject of organizing the seminar somewhere in Europe. Public Library Project in India (page 174). [59] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) did not understand why the library project in question had been included in the section of the programme dealing with the dis- semination of culture; he thought it would be more in place in the section on adult education. [60] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) said that the Director-General had tried to bring together all the various parts of the programme, so as to show that libraries, museums, art and literature all contributed towards the edu- cational aims of Unesco. [61] Miss LAISE (United States of America) said that his reply indicated a most desirable trend, but she sought assurance that the Public Library project in India was being fully co-ordinated with Unesco’s Fundamental Education project for that area. [62] Mr. THOMAS, (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) said that the whole of the project was regarded as a contribution to the fundamental education campaign, since all the material was designed for that purpose. The project was to be carried out with the help of the Indian Government authorities, who were in charge of the campaign. Public Library Project in Latin America (page 174). [63] The Committee noted that it was proposed to undertake only preparatory work on the project in 1952. Library Seminar in Africa (page 175). [64] The Committee noted that there too, it was proposed to undertake only preparatory work in 1952. [65] Miss LAISE (United States of America) sought further information about the exact objects of the seminar, [66] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) said that the Report of the Trusteeship Council stressed the importance of pro- moting the expansion of libraries in Africa. [67] Mr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) asked whether Furopean languages or the vernacular tongues had been chosen for the libraries; Mr. THOMAS (Di- rector, Department of Cultural Activities) reminded him that the project concerned seminars for special- COMMITTEE 560 ized librarians of a specified region; there was no question of actually setting up libraries. [68] Miss LAISE (United States of America) asked whether a public library movement already existed in Africa, and whether the seminar was considered the best possible way to stimulate further action. [69] Sir Ronald ADAM (Representative of the Executive Board) said that, in the two British areas of West Africa which he had visited, three libraries had been started, and that the expansion of the service was considered a matter of primary im- portance. Many difficulties—especially that of lan- guage—would have to be overcome; the areas con- cerned were greatly in need of advice, and he considered that such advice could better be given by an international than by a national organization. [70] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) said that Sir Ronald's remarks confirmed the opinion of the Secretariat. Though the campaign was headed by the British territories, there was also an important movement in that direc- tion in the Belgian Congo and the French colonies. Mr. Thomas was convinced that the problem should be dealt with internationally. [71] Mr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) asked whether it was a question of education for the natives, for the colonials or for both. [72] Sir Ronald ADAM (Representative of the Executive Board) replied that the Public Library project in Africa was designed to assist the indi- genous population. [73] Miss LAISE (United States of America) questioned the desirability of a non-member of the Secretariat being sent to make the necessary pre- parations in Africa. She also wondered whether the project had been properly related to Unesco's other programmesin África and to the Technical Assistance activities in that continent. In view of the limited funds available for all Unesco projects, care should be taken to ensure the greatest possible impact in any one region. [74] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) remarked that the work was an integral part of Unesco's fundamental education pro- gramme as well as of the programme of the Depart- ment of Education; it might well prove to be the starting point for a technical assistance project. It was for that reason that the Secretariat proposed at the end of 1952 to send one of its members or à special adviser to a country where a fundamental education project was being carried out, in order to establish contacts and to co-ordinate the work of the seminar with the fundamental education pro- | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |    BUDGET561 gramme. It would be easier to draw up precise budget estimates when the Conference decisions on the 1953 and 1954 programmes had been taken. National Bibliographical and Documentation Centre (p. 175). [75] Mr. DÜRING (Sweden) queried the necessity for contracts with national bibliographical working groups. He felt that if such groups had a particular interest in the project they would be willing to assist without special payment. [76] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) felt that the project was much the same as that being under- taken by the Technical Assistance programme in Mexico. He did not consider that a second such project was necessary in the same part of the world. [77] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) returned to the query raised by the Swedish delegate concerning the sum of $5,000 for fees of national working parties, which he thought needed to be re-examined. Although he thought Mr. Thomas would reply in the negative, he wanted to know whether there was any connexion between the project and the pilot project on public libraries in Latin America—if so, funds could be saved by combining those meetings. He also wanted to know whether it was possible to estimate Unesco’s financial commitments over a five-year period. Finally Mr. Guignolet wondered whether it was really necessary to convene such meetings at a cost of $5,000 and to pay an expert $1,500 for drawing up a report on the development of biblio- graphical services. [78] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) wondered whether the Secretariat yet knewthe name of the Member State which was to apply to Unesco for aid in organizing a bibliographical and documentation centre in its country. [79] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities), in reply to the delegates of France and Sweden, said that the establishment of national bibliographical working groups had- aroused enthusiasm in many countries, and that there were, at the moment, 45 such groups operating at their own expense. Some of them, however, had embarked on work of international interest which would be of value to several countries; in such cases, it had been thought expedient for Unesco to provide aid, by offering the groups small contracts for organizing meetings or bringing out publications. In reply to the question raised by the United Kingdom delegate, Mr. Thomas said that there was no resemblance be- tween the project under discussion and the Mexican Technical Assistance Project: the latter was exclu- sively scientific, while the project the Committee Was discussing was linked with all Unesco’s work. COMMITTEE VIII-9 Replying to the French delegate, Mr. Thomas pointed out that the project was in no way connected with the Public Library Project in Latin America. As regarded commitments for five years, Mr. Thomas pointed out that, whereas both Unesco’s programme and Unesco’s budget were annual provision had to be made for the development of the project over a longer period; after that the project would have to become self-supporting, Unesco no longer being even morally responsible for it. Finally, as regarded the Inter- national Committee of Bibliography and Documenta- tion which had been set up that year and had met for the first time in London in April, its importance as a co-ordinating agent for all bibliographical work was such that it had been decided to turn it into a permanent body. It would thus be able to co- ordinate and organize work which might, subse- quently, be delegated to non-governmental organi- zations; but that stage had not yet been reached. The services of a highly qualified expert working full-time on drawing up the trend report on biblio- graphical development would be required. In conclu- sion, Mr. Thomas replied to the Cuban delegate, that it was proposed to establish the bibliographical centre in Uruguay, as there it would be helped by the presence of the Science Co-operation Office; there were, however, other countries interested in the project, and no obligations had yet been incurred. [80] The CHAIRMAN remarked that it was diffi- cult for the Committee to judge the reasonableness of the estimates if the location of the project was not known. He agreed with Mr. Diiring’s remarks about contracts with national bibliographical working groups, and expressed doubt about the need for the meeting of the International Committee of Biblio- graphy and Documentation. There were 15 perma- nent members in the division of the Secretariat concerned and they should not require the services of ‘ an advisory Committee. [81] Miss LAISE (United States of America) said she was interested in relating the techniques used in the different projects. She felt that the work plan was extremely hypothetical in the particular case in question, and suggested that the Programme Com- mission should be asked to approve merely the general principle of the project, and that only pre- paratory work should be carried out in 1952. The experience so gained could then be used to determine whether it would be worthwhile to allocate large sums to the project in 1953. [82] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) said that he had never questioned the need to extend the plan over several years; what he wanted, if possible, was an estimate of the costs for five years. [83] As the bibliographical centre was not linked with the Latin American project, the estimate of $5,000 constituted a subvention towards the function-    VIII-9 BUDGET ing of the centre. Mr. Guignolet thought that the work which was to be delegated to an expert for a fee of $1,500 could be done within the Secretariat. [84] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) pointed out that the proposed bibliographical and documentation centre was not in fact a new scheme. It was a logical development of previous work (the Unesco—Libraryof Congress sur- vey, followed by the establishment of a bibliogra- phical committee). Systematic plans had been drawn up and communicated to all the Member States. That marked the beginning of a systematic and logical programme on a subject which was of vital importance to all Unesco's work, and important also from the point of view of the Technical Assistance Programme. [85] In reply to Mr. GUIGNOLET, Mr. Thomas thought that a rough estimate of $60,000 might be given forthefive-year period, though that sum could not be taken in any way as final. He went on to say that the head of the Science Co-operation Office in Montevideo had forwarded a request from Uruguay that the bibliographical centre mentioned in the recommendations of the Conference might be established there. [86] The International Committee, the establish- ment of which had also been recommended by the Conference, would be of great value, not only to Unesco, but to all the other Specialized Agencies. Withregard to staff, while 15 Unesco officials were working onlibraries, only two would be in charge of bibliography and documentation; it had therefore been proposed that the work of drawing up the report (which would take a long time) should be delegated to a full-time expert. Finally, the meeting, for which a sum of $5,000 had been allocated, would be kept on the programme, even if the Latin American pilot- project were abandoned. Although they were men- tioned in the same resolution, they were in fact two separate and distinct projects. [87] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) said that, when asking the name of the Member State which had applied for aid in the matter under discussion, he had not intended to embarrass the Secretariat; he had not supposed the matter was confidential. The reason for his question had been that there was a Centre of Bibliography and Documentation in Havana, and he did not know whether the application for aid had come from that Centre or not. [88] The CHAIRMAN said that the comments offered during the discussion would be noted in the report of the Committee. Documentation Systems (page 175). [89] Mr. DURING (Sweden) pointed out that two contracts were proposed under that heading. The COMMITTEE 562 first appeared highly desirable, but the necessity for the second was questionable. He did not feel that a further survey of the techniques of documentary reproduction was required at the moment. [90] Mr. WYNES (Australia) felt that the expenses for the project were too high and that one item—that mentioned by Mr. Diiring—should be dropped in
1952. [91] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) doubted whether the time was ripe to undertake either of the proposals, but felt that that was a matter for decision by the Programme Commission. [92] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) pointed out that two distinct projects were involved: there was, firstly, the ques tion of concluding a contract with the International Federation for Documentation, for the publication of a complete revised edition of the Universal Decimal System for Classification, at a cost of $10,000; and secondly, a contract for the survey and promotion of techniques for documentary reproduction, to cost $5,000. [93] The CHAIRMAN said the Committee would have to await the decision of the Programme Commis- sion in the matter. International Centre for Exchange and Distribution of Publications (page 176). [94] The CHAIRMAN noted that the estimate for the transportation of goods—$4,000—was ratherhigh. [95] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) said that all Clearing House work was done by the Secretariat; but there was also the work of distributing books to ill-equipped coun- tries, as well as transport problems to solve. Ex- changes could be expanded if Unesco were in a position to bear transport costs in cases where the countries concerned were unable to do so. Appli- cation had been made for a sum of $4,000 for that purpose. [96] Mr. KRSTIÉ (Yugoslavia) asked why, if exchanges were to be operated by post, a sum of $1,000 had been allocated for travel. Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) replied that that was the only sum earmarked to cover the travelling expenses of the Secretariat for all the activities mentioned in the group of resolutions under discussion. Members of the Secretariat had to make those journeys in order to stimulate and co-ordinate the work of the centres, and to attend meetings of the International Federation for Docu- mentation, the International Federation of Library
563 BUDGET Associations, and the International Organization for Standardization. Convention on Exchange of Publications (page 176). [97] No comments. Scientific and Cultural History of Mankind (page 176). [98] M. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) referred delegates to document 6C/PRG/12—Annual Report from the President of the International Commission for a Scientific and Cultural History of Mankind. He added that the Secretariat was preparing a new docu- ment outlining revised budgetary estimates for the project. [99] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) drew attention to the fact that the detailed budget was given in an annex to the document (pages 17 and 18). That budget had been cut, not by the Executive Board, but after re- examination by the International Commission set up to produce a Scientific and Cultural History of Mankind. [100] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) said that, although the estimates for the project had been reduced at the second meeting of the Commission, on the recom- mendation of the Executive Board, the Secretariat COMMITTEE VIII-10 costs still seemed to him to be excessive. They could doubtless be reduced after decision had been taken by the Administrative Commission on the subject of local salary scales for Unesco. [101] Sir Ronald ADAM (Representative of the Executive Board) pointed out that it was the duty of the Budget Committee to consider whether the estimates submitted were reasonable. In particular, the Executive Board had emphasized that the salaries of staff employed on the project should not exceed those of corresponding members of the Unesco Secre- tariat. [102] Mr. WYNES (Australia) said that his Govern- ment felt the project should be financed from funds outside the normal Budget of the Organization. [103] After further discussion, it was agreed to consider the item more fully at the afternoon meeting, when the Secretariat would have distributed the additional papers. [104] The CHAIRMAN then proposed the establish- ment of a Drafting Committee, comprising the following members: the Chairman, the Vice-Chair- man, the Rapporteur and the delegates of the United Kingdom, Iran, Cuba and Sweden. [105] Agreed. The meeting rose at 7 p.m. TENTH MEETING Friday, 15 June 1951, at 3.30 p.m. Chairman: Miss Caron Laise (United States of America) Examination of the Budget Estimates (con- tinuation) [document 6C/5 (II) ]. Cultural Activities (continuation) (Part III.4). DISSEMINATION OF CULTURE (continuation) (IIT.4.F). Scientific and Cultural History of Mankind (con- tinuation) (page 176). [1] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) presented the budget given in Annex II to the Report from the President of the International Commission for a Scientific and Cultural History of Mankind (document 6C/PRG/12, Annex II), together with a paper giving the same budget adjusted to meet the proposed new salaries and allowances system of Unesco, which would result in an increase of $713 in the budget. [2] Sir Ronald ADAM (Representative of the Execu- tive Board) said that the Board’s aim had been to ensure that salaries should not be greater than those that would have been paid inside Unesco, but not necessarily to ensure that they were the same as those of other organizations.    VIII-10 BUDGET [3] Mr. DURING (Sweden), speaking personally as a university man, would be very glad if the Gener- al Conference were to grant $400,000 to historians for five years. Nevertheless, as the representative of the Swedish Government, he had to maintain the opposite point of. view and would be doing so in the Programme Commission, asking that Unesco should confine itself to grants for convening the Editorial Committee. In trying to estimate whether the pro- posed budget was reasonable, he observed that if the various editions of it were compared, it would be found that the total proposed exceeded the grants made by the three Scandinavian Governments to their National Commissions for all purposes. As an example of excessive estimates, Mr. Diiring quoted the $2,000 allocated to postage, as well as the edi- torial costs. He suggested that the Social Science Bulletin might serve as a guide-line. That also was a quarterly review averaging some 200 pages an issue, but it cost only $14,000. The fees in the present instance seemed excessively high and he thought some reduction should be possible. He noted that on page 17 of document 6C/PRG/12 it was stated that, despite the substantial reduction of $23,300 on administrative and operational costs, the Commission would endeavour to complete its work in the time planned, and he therefore felt that it should equally be possible to effect some reduction in operational and secretarial costs. [4] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) observed that, in the typed document which had just been distributed, the budget for the International Commission for a Scientific and Cultural History of Mankind totalled $70,560. Mr. Guignolet would be interested to know by what method Unesco hoped to recover that sum within a short time. [5] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultur- al Activities) said that the typed document did not represent the budget for the Commission, but was a summary of estimates made by the Secretariat in order to compare the actual budget of the Interna- tional Commission with the total which would be reached if the scales prevailing in the Secretariat were applied. [6] The Commission had begun work in December
1950, and was forced to produce hurried estimates for its budget. After a great deal of planning, it produced new estimates on a more realistic basis. That work was described in the President’s annual report (document 6C/PRG/12), upon which the Budget Committee’s attention should be focused. [7] As a result of careful study, the President of the Commission hoped that Unesco would easily find publishers to accept responsibility for printing the proposed scientific and cultural history, and that its wide circulation in several languages would bring Unesco a good return. It was therefore the case of COMMITTEE “ [10]
564 an “advance” rather than of an irrecoverable sub- vention. [8] It should be added that the Commission had done a large amount of very thorough work, and matters were developing very satisfactorily. The remuneration contemplated would be paid to the world-renowned scholars, who were producing a veritable epitome of the evolution of mankind. [9] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) realized that Unesco had the prospect of recovering the funds laid out, and that in the normal way it ought to be able to secure royalties on*the publication without much difficulty. The President of the International Com- mission had stated in his report that, if the publi- cation contract was such as the Commission was entitled to expect, he was confident that Unesco would recover its funds in a comparatively short time. But, at the Executive Board meeting in May 1951, that same President had been much less optimistic, and had said that Unesco could hope to recover “a good part” of its expenses and recoup, perhaps, up to 50 per cent of the moneys advanced. Indeed, it seemed difficult to hope for more. Mr. DÜRING (Sweden) thanked Mr. Thomas for his explanations and entirely agreed with him con- cerning the excellence of the proposed plan, which Mr. During had studied with care. The historians would, it seemed, work under very favourable con- ditions. The question was, however, whether Unesco could afford to make a grant of the size proposed and commit itself to continuing the grant for five years. He suggested including a note in the report to the effect that some members of the Committee had expressed doubts on the advisability of making so large a grant for the purpose. [11] Mr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) noted that it was proposed to supply the authors of the work with abundant documentation, estimated to cost $1,000. Did that represent a single, non-recurring purchase, or was it an item that would appear in the Com- mission’s budget every year for four years? [12] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) said that the United Kingdom Government was less con- vinced than that of Sweden concerning the excellence of the proposed scheme, but felt that it was a ques- tion for discussion in the Programme Commission. [13] The CHAIRMAN agreed with Mr. Düring, and felt that it was the function of the Budget Committeé to make reservations concerning the proposed ad- ministrative arrangements, which in any case seemed to her very peculiar, since Unesco appeared to have no control over the staff, the servicing, the publi- cations, etc. She suggested that the Committee's report should contain a query on that matter.    BU PV GET [14] Sir Ronald ADAM (Representative of the Exe- cutive Board) said that it had originally been intended that Unesco should service the Commission, but that the experts had objected. The Board had wished to ensure a reasonable budget without inter- fering in the Commission’s business, and had there- fore sought to niake it independent of Unesco, while retaining responsibiliy for it in the Organization. No international non-governmental organization seemed to exist equal to so big a task, and the Board had therefore tried to create a body large enough to deal with it and to meet the criticism which would be hound to arise. He agreed that the details of the scheme would be better left to the Programme Com- mission. [15] The CHAIRMAN agreed that the matter should be passed to the latter Commission to consider in the light of the Committee’s comments. [16] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) said that, since the budget had been prepared, the plan had been changed; it was no longer intended to give the con- tract to a body working as an outside organization. and LiteraturePersonnel Costs: Art page 178). (Table, [17] The CHAIRMAN asked whether there would be any reduction in personnel in view of the elimi- nation of the International Review of the Arts. [18] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cul- tural Activities) said that all that was so far decided was that the Review would not appear in 1951; it was for the Conference to decide whether or not it was to appear in 1952. On that decision would depend whether the post of Layout Specialist, included in the Budget, should be retained or elimi- nated. ACTION IN THE SERVICE OF Human Rıcarts (I11.4.G). Philosophic Enquiry on the Role of Law (page 180). [19] No comments. Right to Share in Cultural and Scientific Progress (page 180). [20] Mr. KRSTIC (Yugoslavia) feared that the work proposed under that item might already be out of date, since the Commission on Human Rights had met the previous month in Geneva and devoted a great part of its time to the question of social and cultural rights. [21] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) won- dered whetherit was necessary to call in the experts COMMITTEE VIII-10 mentioned in item 4.52 to advise governments on the question. Could not the Commission on Human Rights do whatever was necessary? [22] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) asked whether it would not be possible to co-ordinate the activities arising out of Resolution 4.5 (Action in the Service of Human Rights) with those entailed by the imple- mentation of Resolution 1.332 of the Education Department, under which a seminar would be organ- ized for teachers on the development of active methods for education in world citizenship, espe- cially in relation to the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The estimated cost of that seminar was $57,000. [23] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cul- tural Activities) replied that the Commission on Human Rights had, in fact, met in Geneva and had asked various Specialized Agencies, in particular Unesco, to contribute as actively as possible to its work. Unesco’s co-operation had been warmly appreciated, and the texts it had submitted had been accepted almost in their entirety. Thus there was neither contradiction nor duplication, but harmoni- ous co-operation. It was possible that the conclu- sions of the Committee of Experts which it was pro- posed should meet in 1952, might come somewhat late, but the Covenant on Human Rights would be constantly reviewed; the idea of the right to share in cultural life was fairly vague. It was therefore for Unesco to examine everything that the exercise of that right might involve, and to produce concrete plans accordingly for putting it into effect. It was from that point of view that the proposed activity submitted to the Committee was really a constructive one. [24] There should be constant contact between the various departments concerned with the question of Human Rights, so as to ensure that the differ- ent studies undertaken within Unesco progressed smoothly. [25] Mr. DURING (Sweden) said that he had been comparing the proposals of item 4.53 with those contained in the chapter on Education under items
1.832 and 1.344, and wondered whether there was not some duplication and overlapping. There might be some difference in the presentation and destina- tion of the literature, but he wondered whether there was to be any real difference of substance, and doubted whether the item under consideration was really necessary. [26] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) asked if the Secretariat would prepare a list of all the refer- ences to the Declaration of Human Rights which occurred throughout the programme. [27] Agreed. S E E I E E E E E E a E s e