VIII-18 BUDGET by travelling consultants and members of the Secre- tariat in gathering material for reports often resembled the type of work done by expert com- mittees. Accordingly, the provisions for fees, for the travel of the Secretariat, and for meetings, should not all increase at the same time. [70] The CHAIRMAN thought that the Budget Committee might suggest that the rising costs of the three items required close examination of work plans by the Programme Commission, in order to see whether better co-ordination of activities was possible. [71] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) pointed out that the travel of a consultant on a fee basis did not neces- sarily duplicate the functions of an expert committee, but more usually contributed to the work of that committee. The field consultant was often engaged to prepare specialized documents for the consider- ation of the expert committee. [72] The CHAIRMAN thought that observation was fair, but pointed out that the Budget Com- mittee was still concerned at the increasingly large programme being undertaken by the Secretariat and was obliged to maintain its decision to note that fact in its reports. List of Proposed Subventions for 1952 (Table IX) (pages 307-309). [78] No further comment. COMMITTEE 606 Standard Budget Summary for the United Nations and Specialized Agencies—Unesco (Table XI) (pages 317 et seq.). [74] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) said that, in the Consultative Committee on Administrative Questions, considerable discussion had taken place on the form of presentation of the budgets of Specialized Agencies to the United Nations. Some modifications of the existing form had been proposed and those would appear in the following year's presentation. [75] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) asked, in regard to Annex 1 of Table XI (page 321), whether the number of posts shown referred to international or local staff. [76] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) said that only inter- national staff were shown in that table, and he recalled that information on the establishment figures for local staff had already been supplied by the Secretariat in a separate document. [77] As consideration of all the information contained in the Budget Estimates had been completed, the CHAIRMAN presented the sup- plementary information prepared by the Secretariat in response to requests from the Committee. [78] There information. was no further discussion on that The meeting rose at 6.20 p.m. EIGHTEENTH MEETING Thursday, 21 June 1951, at 8 p.m. Chairman: Mr. F. Benper (Netherlands) Approval of Preliminary Report of the Budget Committee on the Budget Estimates for the Financial Year 1952, as presented in Document
6C/5 (II) (document 6C/BUD/1). [1] The Committee considered its Preliminary Re- port to the General Conference, prepared by the Rapporteur, Mr. Guignolet, with the assistance of the Drafting Committee. [2] It was agreed that the French version of the Report should be the official text. [3] The Committee examined the Report paragraph by paragraph, and adopted a certain number of amendments. [4] With the above-méntioned amendments, Report was approved. [5] On behalf of the Committee, the CHAIRMAN thanked the Rapporteur and the Drafting Committee. The meeting rose at 6.30 p.m.