ШЗ PLENARY MEETINGS 50 THIRD PLENARY MEETING Tuesday, 19 June 1951, at 10 a.m. President: Count STEFANO JACINI (Italy), later: Mr. HOWLAND SARGEANT (United States of America) CONTENTS Election of the President and Vice-Presidents, following the report of the Nominations Committee TE NE aE 50 Presentation by the Chairman of the Executive Board of the Director- General's report on the activities of the Organization . . . . 53 Speech by the Director-General 57 Election of the President and Vice-Presidents following the Report of the Nominations Com- mittee. [1] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] The meeting is now open. I call upon Mr. Mañach, Chairman of the Nominations Com- mittee, to present his report. [2] Mr. MANACH (Cuba) — [Translation from the Spanish] Ladies and gentlemen, I shall now read out in English the report of the Nominations Committee. [3] The Nominations Committee met at 4.15 p.m. on
18 June 1951 under the Chairmanship of the President of the Fifth Session of the General Conference. [4] On the proposal of the Head of the United States delegation, seconded by many other delegations, Mr. Jorge Mafiach, Head of the Cuban delegation, was elected Chairman of the Nominations Committee. [5] The Chairman introduced the agenda (6C/NOM/1) and informed the Committee that Item 4: Submission of nominations for the offices of President and seven Vice-Presidents of the General Conference, would be taken at that meeting. [6] He then called for nominations for the office of President. The Head of the Mexican delegation, Mr. Anto- nio Castro Leal, proposed that the office of President should be offered to the Head of the United States delegation, Mr. Howland Sargeant. [7] Mr. Howland Sargeant (United States of America) said that he had earlier endeavoured to make a proposal, but that he had been forestalled by Mr. Castro Leal’s kind proposal. His own proposal was that, as the General Conference was meeting in France, a country renowned for its cultural traditions and love of freedom and also one of the principal founders of Unesco, it would be appropriate to offer the Presidency of the Sixth Session of the General Conference to the Head of the French delegation. [8] Mr. Paul Montel, apologizing for the absence of the Head of the delegation, Mr. Pierre Olivier Lapie, said that his delegation was greatly flattered by Mr. Howland Sargeant’s proposal. At the same time France had already held the Presidency at the First Session of the General Conference and the holding of a session in Paris was in fact a frequent occurrence. In the circumstances he believed that the United States of America, a pillar of the Organization, which had never assumed the Presi- dency, should accept the Mexican delegation’s proposal. [9] The Chairman then asked whether the Committee approved the nomination of Mr. Howland Sargeant, Head of the United States delegation, as President of the General Conference. That proposal was adopted by acclamation. [10] The Chairman next called for nominations for the seven posts of Vice-President of the General Conference. Since more than seven countries had been proposed, the Committee proceeded to a secret ballot. Mr. F. Bender (Netherlands) and Mr. M. Mason (New Zealand) acted as tellers. [11] As a result of the vote the Committee proposed that the Heads of the delegations of the following countries be elected Vice-Presidents of the Sixth Session of the General Conference: Egypt, France, India, Iran, United Kingdom, Uruguay, Yugoslavia. [12] The meeting rose after the Chairman had announced that the recommendations of the Committee would be reported to the plenary meeting of the Con- ference on the following day. [13] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] 1 thank Mr. Maflach for his report and I call upon Mr. Carneiro, who has just requested to speak. He represents the Brazilian delegation. [14] Professor Paulo CARNEIRO (Brazil) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, I have asked to speak in order to make a statement on behalf of the Brazilian delegation. My delegation deeply deplores the procedure adopted for yester- day’s election of members of the General Committee of the Conference. It considers that the method followed was the worst ever adopted, and that the spirit of these elections did not correspond with the dignity or the importance of such an event. Unesco should ensure that in future a normal pro-
51 +cedt ratic post | cert: for orig dele [15] but app disc obje inte [16 dele В for | one Ema) pro; for | mos que pro but cast frec no res] and the fro an the intr equ T — © س م В ‘хат in the see: our atn [17 Fre the wh ma spo cri OCC the -sul for Cor wh to tak   ж е н е е е е н
51 PLENARY ~ cedure should be scrupulously respected in the prepa- ration of lists of candidates for the most responsible posts at this Conference. Firstly, we protest against certain anonymous lists which have been circulated for the last few days without anyone knowing their origin. Some attributed them to one or another delegation; others to the Secretariat. [15] There is no doubt that nobody is to blame, but the fact remains that no preliminary and direct appeal was made to the Heads of delegations to discuss such an important question calmly and objectively, bearing in mind the fundamental interests of the Organization. [16] We deeply regret that the Head of one of the delegations presented a massive list of seven names for the seven posts. If this procedure were adopted, one of these days the Head of another delegation may propose the adoption of Unesco’s budget and programme even before they have been submitted for consideration. Democratic principles should be most carefully observed at a time when political questions are at issue and we must all insist upon a procedure which is not only precise in its details, but nobly inspired. We are not living in a Scottish castle where it is possible to imagine that ghosts frequently intervene in human affairs; ghosts have no place among us, for we are an organization of responsible countries, governments and individuals, and we hope, Mr. President, that you will present the Procedure Committee with a formal request from the Brazilian delegation to prepare for Unesco an electoral procedure which shall protect us in the future from these anonymous lists and suchlike intrigues. We make this request in order to ensure equal rights and duties for all, as well as observance of the democratic principle according to wich the various countries should occupy the different posts in turn. But we have no obection to make against the members who were elected yesterday; they all seem deserving of our approval and we offer them our warmest support; nevertheless, we hope that there will be no recurrence of yesterday afternoon’s atmosphere and proceedings. [17] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] Ladies and gentlemen, before calling upon the Head of the Cuban delegation, Mr. Maifiach, who has just requested to speak, I would like to make a few remarks to prevent my personal re- sponsibility from being implicated. The matters criticized by the Head of the Brazilian delegation occurred before I was elected President and I can therefore speak with strict impartiality on the subject. The President cannot be held responsible for lists of nominations which circulate in the corridors. Anyone is entitled to circulate them, whether others like it or not. But that has nothing to do with the proceedings of the Conference, which take place in this room and not elsewhere. MEETINGS 11-3 [18] I do not find any provision in the Rules of Procedure forbidding the presentation of several nominations, or, to use Mr. Carneiro’s expression, a massive list. Opinions may differ as to the ad- visability of such a step, but it was not a reprehensible one and consequently the President could not forbid it. [19] As to the modification of the electoral pro- cedure, which has just been championed by such an authority as the Head of the Brazilian delegation, it may well be revised in several years’ time. I have nothing to say on that matter; it is a question to be referred—and I will refer it if the Conference so desires—to the Procedure Committee. I call upon the Bolivian delegate, who wishes to propose a motion. [20] Mr. A. COSTA DU RELS (Bolivia) — [Trans- lation from the French] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, at the inaugural meeting yesterday the position of my country was questioned; a kind of moral reproach was made against it for its failure to pay its contribution, in spite of the fact that one member of the delegation gave assurances that this payment would be made immediately. Mr. Director- General, I now have the honour to hand over Bolivia's contributions—which arrived yesterday— for 1948-1949. I therefore hope, ladies and gentle- men, that my country will be restored to an equal footing with the other countries present and that you will pour the balm of extenuating circumstances on this small wound. [21] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] The balm is already administered in the form of the Conference’s applause; but I must point out to the Bolivian delegate that I allowed him to speak although his motion was not a motion in the true sense of the term and was not connected with the matter under consideration. I now call upon the Cuban delegate. [22] from the Spanish] Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened with all sympathy and respect to the speech of the distinguished Head of the Brazilian delegation. I would first like to remind delegates that it was the Cuban delegation, over wich I have the honour to preside, which proposed that a Brazilian delegate should be one of the seven Vice-Presidents of the Conference. It did so in order to show its sympathy ٠‎ for the aspirations of Brazil. [23] Nevertheless, as Chairman of the Nominations Committee, I am obliged to remind delegates of the circumstances in which the nominations took place. Everyone familiar with international meetings knows that their initial proceedings are inevitably more or less improvised; at the beginning, the various points of view and criteria have not yet been sufficiently Mr. Jorge MANACH (Cuba) — [Translation
11-3 PLENA co-ordinated. Nevertheless, in spite of this lack of co-ordination, which is inevitable at the beginning of a Conference, I can assure delegates that all points of view were respected and all the guarantees which are usually given in such cases to permit delegates to express their respective points of view were provided. [24] It will be remembered that after the election of the President of the Conference there was an adjournment, which, in theory, lasted for 10 minutes, but which in fact lasted much longer. The Chairman of the Nominations Committee profited by this ad- journment to make every possible effort to co-ordinate the views of the various delegations. I am not aware that any delegation presented in a rigid and imperious manner, as the words of the Chairman of the Brazilian delegation seem to imply, what he called a massive list of nominations. On the contrary, I am of the opinion that, if a plenary list, to use such an expression, was pre- sented, it was done so with a view to facilitating proceedings and was intended to be subject to any alteration which might be recommended by the Conference. I can assure delegates that, if such a list was presented, it was done in such a way as to permit other nominations to be made. I felt obliged to make these remarks as I did not wish to incur, even implicitly, the responsibility for having as Chairman of the Nominations Committee supported the election of the seven Vice-Presidents of the Assembly by a method that was not entirely correct and democratic. [25] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] TI call upon the Director-General. [26] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL [Translation from the French] 1 merely wish to comment on that part of Mr. Carneiro’s excellent speech in which it is suggested that the Secretariat might be the authorof lists of nominations. I can assure you, as you have probably already surmised yourselves, that this is not so and could never occur under my authority. I am completely opposed to any inter- vention by the Secretariat in the question of elections. 1 insisted on being absent from a dis- cussion concerning the lists of nominations, as I consider that this responsibility is one which should not be shared by the Secretariat, in any case I refuse to share it myself. Nevertheless, it is clear from Mr. Carneiro’s remarks that the General Conference should think of the future and invite the Procedure Committee to envisage a more supple and more effective procedure capable of securing better results than yesterday's discussions. I therefore support Mr. Carneiro’s proposal that the Procedure Com- mittee be asked to submit a procedure which will avoid similar difficulties in the future. Moreover, I feel sure that the Conference will go even a step MEETINGS 52 further: the number of posts of Vice-Presidents seems inadequate for an Organization which is constantly growing. Seven Vice-Presidents were adequate to represent on a fair geographical basis an Organization of 35 or 40 Member States; but, as there are now 59 Member States and as there will be a further increase in their number, perhaps even during the present Session of the General Conference, the Procedure Committee might also consider the possibility of increasing the numberof Vice-Presidents from 7 to 10. It might be unwise to add further to this number, for the General Committee of the Conference would become unwieldy, and its work, which is essential for the Conference, would consequently become more difficult. But I feel that the increase from 7 to
10 is reasonable and that the Committee might take a decision on the possibility of this increase as well as on the procedure suggested by Mr. Carneiro. [27] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] The Conference will certainly make a note of the remarks just made by the Director-General. I would like to point out that, since actions to fix paternity are forbidden, it would be difficult to fix the parentage of the lists circulated. But, as there are no other observations, this question will be submitted to the Procedure Committee. [28] If no one else wishes to speak, I shall ask the Conference to vote on the report presented by Mr. Mafiach (representative of Cuba) as Chairman of the Nominations Committee. There are no further remarks. I put to the vote the report of the Chair- man of the Nominations Committee. The report is approved unanimously. I invite Mr. Sargeant to take the Chair. The Chair was taken by Mr. Howland Sargeant. [29] The PRESIDENT — Mr. Retiring President, ~ Mr. Director-General, my good friends of Unesco, my first duty is a very pleasant one. It is to thank you for the confidence which you have shown in my country, in my delegation and in me personally, and I should like to tell you how deeply touched I was by the remarks made by my good friend, Mr. Antonio Castro Leal, the distinguished Head of the Mexican delegation, when he proposed me for office. I was also gratified by the support that many of you gave by your seconding motions, and I am indebted to Mr. Montel of the French delegation for supporting my nomination. I shall endeavour to deserve the confidence that these proposers and seconders have placed in me. Beyond that I have only one or two things to say as I take over the Presidency of this General Conference. [30] When I first arrived in France a few days ago, I was asked by representatives of the press what I expected to find in Paris, and I told them that, above all, T looked forward to working in this  too .   NE A dr hd p C tr San h NU L ll A E AA E L L A de
1d EE A L T A   o r Le, 8 = e Re PLENARY53 General Conference with the men and women of goodwill from many, many countries of this world, who, I have come to know, have so loyally associated themselves in the work of Unesco, and I am happy that my expectations are already being fulfilled. I did not knowthat I should be assuming the high office of President of the Conference and I want to say to you, in all frankness, that I realize how distinguished a tradition has been set by my pre- decessors. I cannot expect to emulate the dis- tinguished record of Count Jacini, who was so dis- passionate, efficient and equitable a presiding officer, but I shall do my best to follow in the high tradition that he has set. [31] My only other remark is this. I have found that many people regard the world today as a world of such tension as to leave no place for an organization such as Unesco. May I say that I completely and totally disagree with this concept of the task that faces us? I believe with the greatest sincerity that Unesco today faces not only a challenge but an opportunity greater than at any previous General Conferences, for we have these assets: we have a courageous, imaginative, vigorous Director-General —a first class Director-General. And we have a devoted Secretariat. This year it is already apparent that the National Commissions and Member States are increasingly taking part in Unesco’s programme. In my opinion the task with which we are faced is not beyond Unesco’s powers. I firmly believe that Unesco has made and will make an increasing con- tribution towards solving the enormously compli- cated problems that confront our world of today. In conclusion I should like to tell you of the report made by my delegation to our National Commission and to my fellow-countrymen at the conclusion of the Florence Conference. We said at that time that Unesco had been the subject of very great public attention, that there had been much criticism of Unesco, and much misunderstanding. We had passed through an early period of high hopes, when people expected that, merely because Unesco existed, peace would reign throughout the world. Many countries then went through a period of disillusion- ment, but now I sense a renewed spirit of realistic determination. We have passed through the heightened expectations, we have passed through the disillusionment, and I hope that this General Conference will, in fact, confirm the prophecies made by my delegation last year on returning to our country, and give evidence of renewed determination that will bear out my faith in Unesco’s unique ability to achieve the goals we stand for. [32] I hope the General Conference will bear with the new President until he becomes completely versed in the rules and regulations. Now that we have approved the report of our Nominations Com- mittee, I should like the Heads of delegations, nomi- nated by this General Conference for Vice-Presi- MEETINGS 11-3 dencies, to submit promptly to the Secretariat the names of the persons whom they designate to serve in the capacity of Vice-President of the General Conference. Presentation by the Chairman of the Executive Board of the Director-General's Report. [33] Mr. Howland SARGEANT — (United States) I have to propose to the General Conference certain changes in the Provisional Agenda for this morning's meeting. This is in large part due to our desire to expedite the work of the Conference, with which we have fallen a little behind. I suggest that the Chairman of the Executive Board should this morning present the Director-General's report so that we may have some discussion of it. As there is no objection, I now call on Count Jacini, Chair- man of the Executive Board, to present the Director- General's report. - [34] Count JACINI (Italy) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the task I have the honour to fulfil today, in the name of the Executive Board, is a double one: firstly, to present to you, in accordance with Article V.9 of the Constitution, the report of the Director- General on the activities of the Organization since our meeting at Florence last year; and, secondly, to submit to you the draft programme of the Orga- nization for 1952, which in accordance with Article V.5 of the Constitution has been prepared by the Executive Board. I shall endeavour to show that, in the Board’s view, the second of these two docu- ments is the logical consequence of the first—for, as the Organization grows and the part it has to play in the world becomes more clearly defined, there is an ever greater need for its action to be continuous, for the work successfully undertaken during any one year to be carried on and extended, and for the enterprises begun in one year to take firmer shape and be developed during the year following. [35] Dealing first of all with the past, it is with pride that the Board presents to you the Director- General's report today. We consider, and T am sure our view will be shared by all the delegates here present, that the report before you is unquestionably the most substantial and satisfactory that has hitherto been presented to the General Conference. It shows, not only that a considerable task has been successfully accomplished, but that work in general has been done which is more effective because it has been better concentrated upon the most urgent prob- lems, to whose solutions Unesco can make a useful contribution. [36] The credit for this satisfactory achievement is partly yours, ladies and gentlemen, for it was the Florence General Conference which adopted the con-
11-3 PLENARY centrated programme that has served as a basis for the Organization’s work during the past year. But I should be lacking in sincerity, and should fail to express what is the unanimous opinion of the Executive Board, if I did not say how much we owe to the Director-General, Jaime Torres Bodet, for this fine result, achieved despite so many diffi- culties. We of the Board, who have been privileged to see him at work at close quarters, are in a position to appreciate his unremitting labour, which may truly be described as superhuman, and his tireless zeal in the cause he has championed throughout the entire world. [37] To refer only to one of the forms his energy has taken—the account of his many journeys to four continents across, if not the seven seas, at least the air above these seds, which have resulted in Unesco taking form and shape in places where it had all too often before been but a name, bears eminent witness to the self-sacrifice with which he is carrying out the heavy task entrusted to him by the Confer- ence. In his task he is aided by the loyalty of the Secretariat, to which the Executive Board today desires, through me, to pay tribute. [38] It is therefore natural that, under the wise guidance of Mr. Torres Bodet, Unesco should have conquered a new position in the world during the past year. A year ago, certain people spoke of Unesco as a luxury, and even an expensive luxury. There can be no doubt today that, as TI said in my opening speech, Unesco has become a necessity. Though the nations are engaged in building the material defences of peace, everyone realizes that the only permanent safeguard of peace lies in the realm of the mind. Five years ago, in London, it was stated that: “Since wars begin in the minds of men, it is in the minds of men that the defences of peace must be constructed”. The world’s crisis today is a crisis of the mind, and it is in the realm of the mind that civilization must organize its own defence —establishing, along with respect for international law, a peaceful solidarity based on moral laws, ex- changing intellectual and spiritual values on an entirely free basis and guaranteeing to each human being the full opportunities for moral, educational, scientific and cultural development that are his inalienable right. In this sphere of the mind Unesco, of all the international organizations within the United Nations working for peace, is called upon to play a prime part. [39] In this it has not failed. All its work is directed to that end, and more especially towards the spreading. of the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. This, in the Board's opinion, is one of Unesco’s essential tasks—a task that is basic to all its work. The report before you describes the important steps taken in this field during the past year; and when, in a few minutes, I present to you the programme proposed for 1952, MEETINGS 54 you will see that we contemplate the pursuit and development of this basic activity. [40] The need for Unesco is thus recognized; and this means, in the Board’s view, that Unesco must pursue its task. Any programme ensuring con- tinuity necessarily implies that the financial resources essential for carrying it out must not be reduced. In this connexion a distinction must be drawn between two types of budgetary stability—"“static” stability, meaning that Unesco would each year receive the same sum of money as in previous years, and “dynamic” stability, meaning that the Member States would each year enable it to carry out its programme on the scale of previous years. The Executive Board is convinced that Unesco should be given “dynamic” stability, because of the inflationary movement throughout the world which we here are powerless to influence, and because of the natural growth of the Organization itself. [41] It is therefore on the basis of “dynamic” sta- bility that the Executive Board has prepared the
1952 programme. This programme, and the budget it involves, are still very small compared with the temendous problems we have to tackle. Unfortu- nately, present financial difficulties rule out any hope of a substantial increase in the Organization’s budget for the present. We must therefore seek to make the best use we can of the meagre resources available to us, by applying them to the most pressing needs and improving our working methods. The Director- General's report shows that in many respects Unesco’s work has been made increasingly effective. I need not describe to you, one by one, the various activities which have been undertaken during the year; each of you will have noticed, among those parts of the programme that interest him more particularly, a number of tasks that have been ful- filled with an efficiency and economy of outlay that are worthy of all praise. I shall rather consider the ways in which, in the future, even better and more economical use may be made of our resources. [42] The first of the means that lie to hand is the concentration of the programme, of which T have already spoken. The Florence Conference made great progress in this respect, but the Executive Board feels bound to repeat its warning against the danger of expanding our activities too rapidly. That is why the Board appealed to Member States to refrain, so far as possible, from presenting proposals designed to introduce new activities into the pro- gramme, or reintroducing activities that had been excluded from it in the interests of concentration. That is why, too, the Board will submit its view to the Conference concerning the effect that each new activity proposed would have on the programme. [43] The second way of obtaining better results with the use of the same resources—and I would invite you to reflect upon it—is one upon which my distinguished predecessor, Sir John Maud, insisted     a
55 | PLENARY at length when he presented the Director-General’s report to you at Florence. It is also one that our Director-General has never ceased to emphasize ever since he took up his post. “Unesco”, he says in the introduction to his report, “is indeed none other than the sum of the joint efforts of its Member States. Its work is first and foremost their work.” And further on: “The Organization depends for its existence primarily on the financial resources, bud- getary or extra-budgetary, made available to it by Member States. To be successful, it needs from the States something more important than money, namely, their active participation in the execution of its programme.” Unfortunately, in the case of many Member States, such participation has not yet been fully organized. Certain States have so far not given any really satisfactory reply to the enqui- ries and requests for information addressed to them in accordance with the resolutions they themselves have voted at the General Conference. It would undoubtedly be desirable that Member States should, by their own official means, supply the minimum of staff and funds required for setting up a body for liaison with Unesco, so as to enable their share of responsibility in the pursuit of common aims to be effectively and punctually discharged. We can,it is true, congratulate ourselves upon the number of National Commissions having now risen to 53. - But we must admit that too many of the Commissions are Commissions only in name, that they only meet at irregular intervals, and that they lack the resources and staff that are essential if they are to do effective work. [44] Inow cometo the third way in which Unesco's effectiveness can be increased, namely, the develop- ment of collaboration with the non-governmental organizations. Their experience and profound good- will is something that Unesco cannot afford to ignore. Collaboration with these bodies is one of the earliest of our working methods; and Unesco can be satisfied with the results obtained, both as regards the resuscitation of old organizations after the war and regards the establishment of new ones where the need for them was felt. It can derive yet greater profit from their contacts with pro- fessional quarters, and from what the organizations can achieve in the technical field, by continuing to invite them to undertake, through subventions or contracts, any work that they could carry out better or more cheaply than the Secretariat; and, in re- cognition of their long experience and of the excel- lent results some of them have already obtained, by giving them greater freedom in the execution of tasks falling within Unesco’s programme. It is with this in mind that the Executive Board will submit to the Conference a proposal designed to change the conditions governing the subvention granted annually to one of the oldest of these bodies, namely the International Council of Scientific Unions, so as MEETINGS 11-3 to enable it to distribute this subvention, as it deems best, between its various member unions, in the light of its experience and technical knowledge. This policy of more recourse to the non-governmental organizations is likewise reflected in the proposed programme for 1952, in the chapter on Cultural Activities. [45] It seems to the Executive Board that Unesco’s work can be made more effective, the closer its contacts with the various regions concerned by its activity. The Organization, as a league of Member States, is present wherever in the world there is one of those 59 States. Nonetheless, there is a risk that, in preparing and carrying out its projects, it may lose true contact with the regions that are distant from headquarters. This is partly the fault of Member States who do not sufficiently bring home to the Secretariat their own interest in the Organi- zation; and this apparent gap can be filled if Unesco extends itself, progressively and logically, throughout the various parts of the world. The methods and the rate of this decentralization are one of the prob- lems before the Conference, which it will doubtless consider in the light of the essential aim of making Unesco’s work more effective. [46] T have had the honour to suggest to you, in the name of the Executive Board, four guiding ideas for your discussions on Unesco’s programme and future working methods. May I now draw your attention to a number of more special considerations wich the Board, having read the Director-General’s report, consider merit particular attention from the Conference. If, generally speaking, they bear on spheres in which Unesco's action in the past has for one reason or another been inadequate, you will understand that the fact of dwelling upon them rather than upon what we have already accomplished in no way implies criticism of the work evidenced by the Director-General's report, but on the contrary reflects our conviction that the remarkable results obtained by Unesco, under the distinguished guidance of Mr. Torres Bodet, do not need to be described by me. [47] Thefirst of these special questions is connected with Unesco's relations with youth, and the work it is undertaking on behalf of young people. You will forgive me if I say that it is sometimes my impression that our Organization is in danger of becoming an organization of old people. There are not enough young people among us, and we do not think of them enough. The year 1950 has seen the beginnings of action by Unesco on behalf of youth, but it is only a beginning; and I hope that the Conference will orient our programme increasingly towards those who, in the last resort, will have the final say aboutits future—its success orits failure. [48] I should not interpret faithfully the views of the charming colleague that the Conference had the wisdom last year to place in the hitherto purely
11-3 РТ НА male ranks of the Executive Board if I did not also mention those upon whom the future development of the world and Unesco depends, by reason of the prime part they play in the education of children— namely, women. Hitherto, Unesco has had to forgo a study of the special interests and problems of women, in favour of concentrating upon more gener- al questions; but the time is approaching when it can no longer disregard this vital issue. [49] Finally, I would like to draw your attention to a third class of persons with whom Unesco has not so far established close enough contact—namely, university people. We have established an Inter- national Universities Bureau, whose value is be- coming more and more evident, and we have main- tained relations with a large number of university people on an individual basis, as experts in one discipline or another; but we have done almost nothing to attract towards us an entire group of people who often tend to mistrust Unesco but whose aims are nevertheless the same as ours and who can prove of great value to us. [50] I have spoken of experts; and there can be no doubt of the tremendous contribution that has been made to Unesco’s work by the countless groups of experts who have met under its auspices ever since 1947. The “committee of experts” is an instrument that has stood its test; but the time has perhaps come to ask ourselves whether it is always the most suitable and whether, sometimes, consul- tation on a broader basis with regard to a particular technical problem would not yield better results and effect considerable financial saving, provided the consultation were carried out by correspondence. This is a point that the Executive Board recommends to the special attention of the General Conference. [61] I could continue by mentioning certain matters that Unesco will have to take into consider- ation in its future programmes. There is, for example, the need for developing its work as regards the teaching of international citizenship, or the extension of its social tension studies, which have hitherto borne mainly on minor tensions (except for those connected with racial discrimination) and should now perhaps concern themselves, to a greater degree, with major tensions. But I might risk over- burdening your attention, and you might rightly reply that it is for the Executive Board to take account of these various matters when drawing up the programme that it presents to the Conference. This, I can assure you, will be done. [52] I would merely, before concluding, re- commend to your special consideration one proposal you will examine which, in the view of the Executive Board, represents the most important project that has ever been submitted to the General Conference of Unesco—I mean the project for the creation of a world network of regional fundamental education centres. This enterprise alone, if conducted with courage and generosity, can considerably improve MEETINGS 56 the lot of humanity and, what is more, give thousands of human beings still sunk in ignorance and poverty that chance of moral, physical and intellectual development to which they have a right. Let us consider it, when the time comes, with all the attention it deserves, fully realizing its very great significance. I would only warn you of one danger: this project has been devised as a special project, to be financed by extra-budgetary means. To make this special project a charge on the Organization’s ordinary budget would be to distort the idea itself and to run the risk of upsetting a programme and budget that only now, after five years, are gradually achieving a satisfactory balance; it could also only be done at the expense of other activities that are equally designed to meet urgent needs. [63] On commenting upon the Director-General's report and presenting the 1952 programme proposed by the Executive Board, I have tried to suggest certain considerations that you may wish to keep in mind when you come to examine these two docu- ments. I began by saying that in the Board's view the two documents were closely connected, that the programme of the future must be the logical sequel to that of the past. I have no doubt that the Conference as a whole will share the satisfaction and the deep sense of gratitude towards the Director- General that a reading of his report on the activities of the Organization has roused in us. I am sure that this remarkable balance-sheet of the work hitherto accomplished entitles us to feel the greatest confi- dence in the future of our Organization, to which Jaime Torres Bodet has given the best of himself with such outstanding capacity and sincerity. I am no less sure that the Conference will wish to support him in his task by giving him the means to continue the work that he has made his mission. And so I will conclude by reading out a resolution that the Executive Board adopted a few days ago: The Executive Board, Having taken note of the Director-General’s Report on the activities of the Organization from April 1950 to May 1951, which is to be presented to the General Con- ference at its Sixth Session, Expresses its satisfaction at the improved administrative machinery and methods as well as at the progress made in carrying out the programme; Congratulates the Director-General on the work he has done and on the tireless zeal with which he has carried Unesco’s message to all parts of the world; Declares to the whole Secretariat its appreciation of the efficiency and devotion with which its work has been performed; Hopes that Unesco's efforts, to the effectiveness and necessity of which this Report testifies, will be increasingly integrated through ever closer co-ordination of the activities of government departments, national commissions and non-governmental international organi- zations with those of the Secretariat; Recognizing the financial burdens which weigh upon Member States at the present time, but believing that no effort on behalf of peace can be judged negligibleif its m e t m e n s " — a s e m e s t e r A N رجب ب ك ل ا a ‏
57 PLENA immediate result is to develop international co-operation and understanding through education, science and culture; Recommends that the General Conference, having regard to the achievements shown in this Report and to those promised from plans already set in motion, should furnish Unesco with sufficient funds to enable its work to be pursued and its influence maintained at least at the present level; Reaffirms its conviction that Unesco's aims cannot be attained by material means alone, but that they demand, in those who believe in them and wish to further them, the spirit of sacrifice inseparable from a genuine faith in the dignity of man and brotherhood of nations. [54] The PRESIDENT — Ladies and gentlemen, your applause testifies to the excellence of the report that we have received from the Chairman of the Executive Board. I am sure you will all agree that this report admirably describes the main lines of progress that has been accomplished and the future major task that we must consider at this Conference. Your applause also confirms my remarks on accept- ance of this office. The tradition which Count Jacini has established as your President will be an exceed- ingly difficult one to follow. We now come to a very important item of this morning’s business. Last year I said that our Director-General brings to every task with which he is confronted imagination, vigour, intellectual coherence, and also the dyna- mism ‘o make the actual execution of resolutions a possibility. Today he is to tell us of some of the things which Unesco and Member States have accom- plished since our meeting in Florence last year. And may I, in presenting to you our distinguished Director-General, Mr. Jaime Torres Bodet, remind you that in Florence last year we agreed that any organization in the long run receives that quality of leadership which it deserves? We have a first-class Director-General. Let this General Conference show that we deserve his qualities of leadership. I now call upon the Director-General, Mr. Jaime Torres Bodet. Speech by the Director-General. [55] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL [Translation from the French] Mr. President, Mr. Chairman of the Executive Board, ladies and gentlemen, Count Jacini, as Chairman of the Executive Board, has just communicated to you the Board's comments on my report. I thank him sincerely for the precious help which he has given me throughout the year. He has loyally placed his political experience and culture at the disposal of the Organization, which, under the ægis of its Member States, groups together educa- tors, scientists and artists of all continents, as well as all other persons who are devoting their lives to intellectual pursuits. After his eloquent speech, I would like to show myself no less appreciative of his suggestions concerning our future activities than of his kindness towards myself. MEET INES 11-3 [56] I also express my sincere thanks to all mem- bers of the Executive Board. Clearly conscious of Unesco’s aims and constantly preoccupied with the problems confronting us, they have aided me witn their friendship and experience. [67] I have the honour of welcoming the dele- gations of 52 Member States. Ladies and gentlemen, after guiding the first steps of the Organization, you hold Unesco’s future in your hands. The gradual fulfilment of the promises of peace and progress contained in its Constitution and Programme depends upon yourselves. It is you, therefore, who will decide whether the noblest aspirations of mankind are to be realized. [58] I also welcome the observers of 12 non- Member States; their presence here is proof of the interest which these States are taking in the role which education, science and culture can play in abating the convulsions of the contemporary world. [69] Representatives of the United Nations and of several of the Specialized Agencies showed us by their speeches yesterday that they have a perfect understanding of Unesco’s mission within the frame- work of the United Nations. Their participation in tomorrow's discussions shows that an already firmly established form of co-operation can still be improved by a closer co-ordination of programmes and methods. [60] With the observers of the international, semi-governmental or non-governmental organiza- tions, in whom I express my entire confidence, I believe that the present Conference reveals Unesco as an organization which aims at mobilizing all peoples so that international understanding may result, not from a uniformity of cultures, but from their harmonious development, and so that peace may be founded, not on a mechanical balance of forces, but on a clear-sighted and free adhesion of minds. [61] The new President of the Conference, Mr. Sargeant, Head of the United States delegation, has reaffirmed his faith in Unesco’s destiny. I deeply thank him for his kind references to the Secretariat and myself. I promise him that every- thing will be done to ensure that the noble senti- ments he expressed are shared by an increasing number of men and women in all parts of the world. [62] The Report I have the honour to submit for yourconsideration reviews a year which has doubtless been particularly fruitful for Unesco, but also parti- culary difficult. Administratively, financially, and in the political sphere, as I shall show, circum- stances seem to have combined to impede the de- velopment of the Organization. [63] On the administrative side, we came up against the same obstacles as hitherto in recruiting the high-grade specialist staff needed to carry out our programme. Several posts, including some of the most important, were not filled for months. [64] This setback would have affected our work
11-3 PLENARY Me ET TN ds 58% less if the Secretariat had been able to count at every turn on the effective co-operation of all the National Commissions. Some, it is true, gave us very valuable assistance, but not all of them are yet in full working order. Without mentioning anyone in particular, I think it my duty to repeat here what I said to the Conference in 1949 and 1950—that notwithstanding all we have done to spur these bodies into action, they still do not always play the part they should in the life of Unesco. [65] The problem of general integration which was so much discussed at the Florence Conference, may have been solved in principle. It has not been solved in everyday practice. It is, in my view, the chief problem the Organization has to face. [66] Unless we have Commissions firmly installed in every country and linked with the national branches of non-governmental educational, scienti- fic and cultural organizations, the Secretariat, with the small budget at its disposal, simply cannot execute in its entirety the vast programme imposed upon us by the ideals and aims set forth in our Constitution. [67] Many National Commissions are still in process of formation. Others are only now begin- ning to function. The results of this state of affairs in 1950 were all the more unfortunate in that the plans drawn up by the Secretariat for its own activity could not be carried out fully. [68] We began 1950 with a programme consisting of 267 resolutions and a budget of $8,000,000 voted by the Conference in October 1949. Suddenly, in March, when we had already contracted many of our obligations, we were confronted with a disconcert- ing situation: the programme was still in force, but the budget was down by 10 per cent. [69] The explanation is simple. On 24 November
1949, the General Assembly of the United Nations recommended that the Specialized Agencies should limit their ordinary budgetary expenditure to the sums they could reasonably hope to receive during the year in question. [70] In view of this recommendation, the Executive Board of Unesco, in February 1950, approved the principle of apportioning our payments so as to enable the Conference, if it wished, to limit the amount of our expenditure to the total sum we could reasonably expect to receive in contributions for the current financial year. Owing to the delay in payment by certain Member States, the anticipated revenues were some 10 per cent lower than in the budget approved in 1949. We were therefore obliged to cut down expenditure in the same proportion. But many of our commitments, like those for the renting of premises or the payment of salaries under contract, were not of a kind that could be reduced overnight as a temporary measure. The heaviest cuts inevitably affected the carrying out of our pro- gramme. The result of these measures, already apparent at the Florence Conference, became still more obvious in the closing months of 1950. We all realized the extra effort that would be entailed by this alteration in plans already under way, and we deplored the disturbances that so sudden a change was bound to create in our work as a whole. On top of all this, we were asked, this very same year, not only to carry out the resolutions adopted, but also to prepare a new programme and to study certain special projects of considerable scope. I accepted this situation because, failing an interven- tion by the General Conference, the financial state of the Organization left no other course open to me. [71] This summary of our administrative diffi- culties brings me naturally to our financial prob- lems. Because certain States have failed to carry out their first obligation under the Constitution, namely to pay their contributions, we have never felt safe in undertaking any financial commitment. We were always wondering whether the activity in question should not be referred to the Executive Board for possible suspension. How, in circum- stances like these, could we be expected to act with the necessary vigour? [72] The consequences of this unsatisfactory situa- tion are too serious to be ignored. I have already pointed out their effect on the execution of the
1950 programme. [73] When we were discussing our proposed expenditure for 1951, the basic question was whether the budget, as approved, would be theoretical or real. If the former, there would be no course open to Unesco but to live beyond its means or else be faced with a programme it could not possibly carry out in full. If the latter, there could be only two solu- tions: either the States fulfilling their financial obli- gations would have to make good the deficiencies of the States who did not, or we should have to create a reserve fund, out of the credits left over from previous years, in order to assure the execution of the programme in its entirety. [74] The Conference adopted this second solution, and I thanked it for a decision which implied a vote of confidence in the Secretariat. Obviously, how- ever, we cannot make a habit of such expedients. The present financial situation shows how necessary it is to make an urgent appeal to all Member States for their co-operation, so that the budget can be balanced regularly. Our finances must indeed be sound if we are to face and overcome the political difficulties of the times. [75] There is no need for me to emphasize the gravity of the international atmosphere in which we have had to work. You know it as well as I do. Under the fearful threat of a new world war, mankind is living days of anxiety and despondency. Govern- ments are embarking on costly rearmament pro- grammes. The peoples are grimly resigning them- selves to the heaviest sacrifices. Faced with the urgent need to build up military security, one hardly dares to mention social or cultural needs. It is as ح ت   a e e o s ‎مت = i o w m
59 PLENARY though fear had become an obsession, freezing all generous impulses, inspiring every utterance, poison- ing silence itself. In a world in which interests seek the support of force, either as a shield for the law or as a weapon against it, who shall listen to the voice of an Organization which speaks of peace within the law and which, in order to secure or strengthen peace, appeals to international collaboration in education, science and culture? Confronted with imminent peril, what value will people be prepared to set upon this radical but necessarily lengthy task which Unesco proudly accepts? [76] The reply to that question is to be found in the facts. They have been a real comfort and encouragement to us. They have demonstrated that there are, after all, ears to hear our message and minds interested in our endeavours. They explain the apparent contradiction at the beginning of my speech, when I said that the year reviewed in my report to you had been particularly difficult, but also particularly fruitful. [77] I can offer you no list of brilliant victories and spectacular successes. But turn over the pages of the report, and you will find a series of useful and tangible achievements. Lost as they are in the mass of technical detail unavoidable in a document of this kind, these achievements have perhaps aroused only mild appreciation on the part of most readers. You, who know how difficult it is to achieve success even on the national level, will no doubt agree that there is some reason to be satisfied with a balance sheet which, on the international level, shows profits as substantial as those which, with your permission, I shall now succinctly summarize. [78] The whole purpose of Unesco is to establish the intellectual and moral conditions of peace. To that end it seeks to organize international co- operation in its own sphere, to promote international understanding, and to make the Universal Declara- tion of Human Rights more widely known, more readily implemented. [79] A. In 1950 international co-operation has been organized, assisted or stimulated as needed, in the three fields of education, science and culture. Thus:
(1) An International Association of Universities has been created, as a result of the Conference held at Nice last December under the auspices of Unesco, attended by representatives of 164 universities in
51 different countries.
(2) Unesco has set up an Advisory Committee on Arid Zone Research, with the task of working out both our own research programmes and the propo- sals to be submitted to other bodies, both national and international, concerned with the scientific problems which must be solved if the desert areas are to be put to economic use.
(3) Following Unesco's suggestion, a Union of International Engineering Organizations has been established, designed to fulfil the same co-ordinating function in the applied sciences as the International MEETINGS 11-3 Council of Scientific Unions is so carrying out in the natural sciences.
(4) The International Sociological, Political Science and Economic Associations, which Unesco has been working for some years to set up, success- fully held their first congresses in 1950.
(5) Finally, a sum of 548,030 dollars was distri- buted, in the form of subventions or working contracts, among 52 international non-governmental organizations. The total financial assistance of this type granted by Unesco from 1947 up to the present time amounts to 2,099,224 dollars. [80] B. Efforts to stimulate intellectual life on an international scale also help the different countries to understand one another better, and this under- standing has been directly facilitated and developed by various practical measures of exchange and mutual assistance.
(6) From its own budgetary funds Unesco granted 27 fellowships abroad in 1950, and offered for 1951 a total of 69 fellowships.
(7) The sum available to soft-currency countries, under the Unesco Coupon Scheme, for the purchase of books, films and scientific material from hard- currency countries, reached 1,205,607 dollars.
(8) The agreement on the importation of edu- cational, scientific and cultural materials, adopted by the General Conference at its Fifth Session, was opened for signature at the headquarters of the United Nations on 22 November 1950. It has been signed by 23 countries, and ratified by one country: Yugoslavia. The preceding agreement on visual and auditory materials was signed by 18 countries, and ratified by four countries: Canada, Norway, Pakis- tan and Yugoslavia.
(9) Four international seminars, all centring round the idea of mutual understanding, were inau- gurated by Unesco during 1950: the first in Austria, on methods and techniques of adult education; another in Canada, on the teaching of geography; a third in Belgium, on the improvement of school textbooks; and the fourth in Sweden. on the role of public libraries in adult education.
(10) Lastly, Unesco took emergency action, with the help of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestinian refugees in the Near East, to assist child refugees in this area. As a result, the number of schools increased from 62 to 114, and the number of pupils from 33,600 to 43,658, in the period April 1950 to April 1951. [81] C. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights has been steadily propagated, and the articles of special concern to Unesco have been studied with a view to getting them applied more and more widely. Some have been made the starting-point for practical experiments on an appreciable scale.
(11) During 1950, special attention has been paid to the problem of racial discrimination. A declara- tion on the racial question was drafted by experts brought in by Unesco, amended by distinguished successfully
11-3 PLENARY scientists who were also consulted, and finally published throughout the world. This document was reproduced or commented upon in 658 newS- papers, periodicals or reviews in 34 countries and
15 languages. Certain parts of the declaration, especially those dealing with physical anthropology and genetics, have recently been studied in more detail by acknowledged experts.
(12) Unesco has made marked progress in the preparation of a Universal Copyright Convention. The Committee of Experts who met in Washington on 4 November last, unanimously agreed that it was possible and desirable to draw up a Convention of this kind.
(13) Under the terms of Article 26 of the Uni- versal Declaration, Unesco has organized three edu- cational missions—the first to Bolivia, to co-operate in a literacy campaign; the second to Burma, to study conditions for developing fundamental edu- cation there; and the third to India, to take part in an experiment in rural education.
(14) As regards fundamental education, Unesco has passed from the experimental stage to that of achievement. On 9 May 1951, the Regional Latin American Fundamental Education Centre for the training of teachers and the production of specialized material was opened at Patzcuaro (Mexico). For the first time, more than 60 Governments—Member States of Unesco or countries belonging to the Or- ganization of American States—joined in a peaceful alliance to wage victorious war against ignorance. This enterprise deserves mention as an example of international co-operation and the pooling of tech- nical methods. For besides Unesco and the Organi- zation of American States, three Specialized Agencies of the United Nations agreed to take part in it: the International Labour Organization, the World Health Organization and the Food and Agriculture Organi- zation. This venture constitutes, in itself, a lesson in faith and brotherhood.
(15) Finally, on 7 May 1951, the Commission appointed by the United Nations to prepare the first draft of a Covenant of Human Rights approved the text of three clauses designed for the gradual applica- tion of the principles enunciated in Articles 26 and
27 of the Declaration of 10 December 1948, regarding the right to education, to participation in cultural life, and to the benefits of scientific progress. These clauses bear particularly on free and compulsory primary education, universal secondary education, access to higher education, and fundamental education for “persons who have not received a primary education or have not completed it”. The adoption of these clauses by the Com- mission on Human Rights is a highly significant tribute to the ideals of Unesco. If they are included in a Covenant, our Organization will have ample scope for fresh endeavours. These recommen- dations, indeed, demand the most careful prepara- tory work on the part of Governments, and one of MEETINGS 60 the most important clauses provides for the evolving and carrying out by each country, according to its resources, of a plan to implement the rights that have been solemnly affirmed. Unesco must be in a position to help its Member States to draw up these plans. It will also no doubt be led to study the technical assistance measures most likely to enable the national programmes to be put into operation and co-ordinated, first on a regional and then on a world-wide basis. a
(16) To close the list, I will mention another piece of work whichis striking proof of co-operation and understanding in the cause of world peace and prosperity. To date, we have signed 42 Technical Assistance agreements for economic development in 24 countries. These agreements are now being carried out. They will involve an expenditure of $2,039,000 in 1951. Twenty-four further requests for assistance are still being examined. [82] I have deliberately confined myself to these
16 examples, because they have an international bearing and a practical value that are clear to see. But they do not by any means represent all the results achieved. Many other activities also deserve mention. I will quote only two, which we have been asked to undertake in addition to our normal programme. [83] Statutes have been drafted and approved for the Institute of Social Science, the Institute of Peda- gogy, and the Youth Institute, which the Executive Board, with the approval of the General Conference, instructed me to help establish in Germany. I have appointed the members of the three Governing Bodies. They are now meeting at Wiesbaden to appoint the Directors of each Institute, settle the main lines of the programmes, and draw up the budget and the necessary administrative regulations. Financial contributions, amounting so far to $440,000, have been offered by Governments or private bodies in six Member States. Everything is ready for the Institutes to begin work when the new university year opens next October. [84] The United Nations’ action in Korea has laid fresh obligations upon us. The Executive Board has divided these into two categories—rehabilitation and education. Three series of educational brochures oncollective security have been prepared. A sum of $100,000 has been placed at the disposal of the Secretary-General of the United Nations for the reconstruction of schools. [85] The labour of carrying out these tasks has been doubled this year by our constant preoccupa- tion with plans for the future. We have spent a great deal of time thinking out how best to offer you a draft programme arising out of our basic pro- gramme, but more coherent and concentrated than past programmes. [86] When drawing up the agenda for this Session, the Executive Board pointed out to me that it would be an advantage, and also save time, if the general   O e     ج ب ب و ب ج ر ه و ج ح و ج ب r e m ‏
61 PLENARY debate in plenary session could be devoted to a survey of this draft programme. I know that the Chairman of the Board, Senator Jacini, will present this draft to you with an authority I cannot claim. It seemed to me, however, that it might be worth while to preface the presentation of the draft pro- gramme with certain remarks that—in my view at least—would help us to place our discussion in its historical perspective. [87] 1 believe that the draft now submitted to you by the Executive Board is a substantial improvement on previous programmes. It strikes me as more logical, better constructed, and better adapted to the aims of our Organization. It also pays more atten- tion to regional needs, and its various sections are better balanced. Above all—and 1 think this of the utmost importance—it clearly outlines the action Unesco should take in the cause of peace, not only in teaching about Human Rights, but also in helping to solve the educational problems which arise in different countries, by supplying the technical aid that an Organization like ours must supply to Member States while they seek or work out a solu- tion. [88] The same may be said of the special project to set up a world-wide network of Fundamental Education Training Centres, which will be presented to you by the Executive Board and myself. This is really only a complement to our normal programme; it arose as the logical corollary of the moulding of Mr. Trygve Lie, in his weightythat programme. contribution yesterday morning, laid special empha- sis on the important repercussions which this special project will have on the Technical Assistance Plan, when he declared that “everything which bears on Fundamental Education goes to the very root of the problem of the undeveloped areas of the world”. [89] I can imagine nothing more disturbing to the minds and consciences of us all than the knowledge that, in this mid-twentieth century, this age of aviation, radio, antibiotics, and the discoveries of nuclear physics, more than half the population of the world is illiterate. [90] If we want to live in a united world, we cannot allow this most unjust of all frontiers to go on existing—the frontier that divides those who can read from those who cannot. We have terrible memories of the concentration camps, but we some- times forget that, without prisons or barbed wire, more than 1,200 million men and women live in the implacable, invisible, inner dungeon of ignorance. We propagate the text of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, but how can we presume to call it “universal” when we know that not one man in two can so much as read it! We believe in a system of national responsibility for international security. and we overlook the fact that in a democratic nation, responsibility means the responsibility of its citizens. Then what becomes of responsibility in a country where more than 50 per cent, even more than MEETINGS 1-3
80 per cent, of the people know nothing whatever about the agreements entered into by their Govern- ments—not because the authorities are deliberately concealing the truth, but simply because they have no means of supplying the public with precise information ? [91] Of course, this is a problem which the various States, as sovereign Powers, are (trying to solve on their own account. In any case, a world campaign for literacy would be beyond Unesco’s own resources. But the Organization could and should, in my opinion, deal at once with a question that concerns it directly—how to train the thousands of experts whom Member States will need, to win the battle many of them are now waging for fundamental education—a battle for which many of them are at present very ill-equipped. [92] Another task our Organization should under- take is to prepare the educational material these experts will have to use. Radio and the films, despite some noteworthy efforts, have not so far contributed all they might, when one thinks of the large-scale literacy campaigns that will be needed in the future. [93] The programme we submit to you is therefore designed, in the first place, to train teams of funda- mental educators, and train them in regional centres, each centre serving a group of countries that are similar in culture and in their natural economic and social conditions. In the second place, the pro- gramme is designed to ensure the low-cost produc- tion of modern materials for fundamental education, embodying new teaching techniques based on drawing, colour, movement, sound, and the spoken word. [94] We could never have done what we have done, nor could we venture upon our suggested pro- gramme, if Unesco did not meet a vital human need, even in the darkest and most menacing years. Of that need I have received such eloquent proof that I can only speak of it with emotion. [95] In December, I was in Havana for the first Conference of National Commissions of the Western Hemisphere. Many of these Commissions had barely emerged from the early administrative stage. Never- theless, all their delegates vied with one another in giving life to our projects with their own genuine enthusiasm for education, science and culture, those bulwarks of peace and freedom. For 11 days,
58 delegates, including a former President of the Republic, five Ministers of Education and two Under-Secretaries of State, laboured with the utmost devotion and complete singleness of mind to improve our methods, perfect our technical equipment, and define our aims. [96] On my return from Cuba, the Egyptian Government was so good as to invite me to attend the ceremonies held at Cairo in connexion with the
75th anniversary of the Royal Geographical Society, the Jubilee of the Fuad I University, and the opening
11-3 PLE NATA of the Desert Institute. These ceremonies lasted for several days, during which 150 intellectuals from America, Asia, Europe and the Middle East, devoted themselves disinterestedly to a work of true culture. But it was not only the ardour of these honoured guests that touched me. 1 sawthe humble lives of the fellahs, their stoic courage in the face of poverty, and their silent daily struggle with the desert. And here, like an oasis in wastes of sand, I saw—in the schools that are constantly being opened to provide free education—the hope of a new world. [97] Some weeks later my duties took me to Ceylon, India and Pakistan. Never have I felt so deeply our tremendous responsibility towards these countries, so old in civilization and yet, now that they have achieved independence, so new in govern- ment. Hundreds of millions of human beings, faithful to their philosophical and moral traditions, yet at the same time thirsting for material progress, are turning these Asian lands into a source of light and a repository of wealth from which the whole world will one day benefit. [98] The University City and Teachers’ Training Colleges I admired in Ceylon, the magnificent science laboratories and the experiments in rural education that showed me how great an effort India is making, the extensive technical plans being carried out in Pakistan—all this is striking proof that these coun- tries not only seek greatness in freedom, but realize that no lasting greatness can be achieved except on the basis of human brotherhood. [99] If these efforts are to reap the rewards they deserve, two further things are needed—justice and peace. And are not these the very things by which Unesco lives? [100] And after ï left New Delhi, how shall T des- cribe the scene I was privileged to witness when I opened the Fundamental Education Centre at Patz- cuaro, upon the invitation of the Mexican Govern- - ment? Fifty educators from nine Latin American Republics greeted me under the flag of the United Nations. Some came from Bolivia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Peru and Salvador. Others had been chosen from among rural teachers in the host country. They were all united in a single purpose—to complete their own training as soon as possible, so as to waste no time in setting their illiterate fellow-countrymen free from the chains of ignorance and the slavery of disease and poverty. If ever there was a school of peace and democracy, it is here, in these classrooms where Unesco is helping to train a new legion of missionaries for international harmony and under- standing. On the day when Unesco can reckon, not a single centre for 50 teacher-pupils, but 100 or 200 centres like Patzcuaro, men will have come to recognize in the blue flag of the United Nations, floating today in the skies of Michoacan, the guar- dian symbol of justice and progress. [101] When I tell you what interest I found in MERTINGS 62 Unesco in the countries I have visited this year, you will perhaps comment that, after all, I have been speaking only of three areas of the world—Latin America, the Middle East, and Asia. The examples I gave you are certainly encouraging, taken by themselves, but you may not think they give an adequate picture of the 59 States that make up our Organization. In Europe itself, you will tell me, opinion about Unesco is very divided. Of course there is criticism! But that should not worry us. When the criticism is unjust, it strengthens our position; when it is, alas, justified, it helps us to correct mistakes we have no wish to perpetuate or conceal. [102] On the other hand, we do not forget the contribution which Continental Europe, the United Kingdom and the United States of America have made to our programme. Many Unions, Councils and Institutes with which we are constantly working, have their headquarters in these countries. A high proportion of the subventions granted by Unesco go to scientists and research workers belonging to the civilization which had the Mediterranean for its cradle and now flourishes on both sides of the Atlantic. Many of the experts we send on technical assistance missions also come from these countries, as well as from education, scientific and cultural centres in the British Commonwealth. Of the four seminars we organized in 1950, three were held in Europe and one in Canada. [103] These facts show that Unesco, reaching out to the whole world, receives daily and increasing encouragement from men of all latitudes and races, belonging to many different civilizations and speak- ing many tongues. Whether they live in London or Washington, Oslo or Canberra, Rome or Djakarta, Lima or Beirut, these men are a prey to the anxiety that afflicts all mankind today. They know, every one of them, that the best way to get rid of anxiety is not to give in to it, but to throwit off by working for the common good. They know that when the world is passing throughits gravest crises it requires, not groans, but deeds. They know that where the mind is free, tyranny is held at bay. They have all learned that none can escape from the rigours of his fate save by accepting them without flinching— that is to say, by finding his own fulfilment in absolute loyalty to his calling. [104] The whole reason for the existence of Unesco is to construct the defences of peace in the minds of men through education, science and culture. If this mission is to succeed, we shall certainly need justice and equity in the world order, and a collective security that is solid and assured. Unesco is a technical institution, and as such not responsible for establishing political security. But it is responsible, at least in part, for establishing a more general form of security—pacification in its deepest sense, without which political security is no more than a truce be- tween wars.   —
63 [14 is fad ex( su] in, w his aly so pr ecd ing tir] an se ге! ci
4 |   effort PL'EN AR Y [105] The tragedy of today, like that of yesterday, is due among other things to one incontestable fact—the partial character of the proposed solutions. Collective security implies that all peoples, without exception, shall show equal goodwill. This in turn supposes that they will all see the same advantage in, and be equally anxious to preserve, a status quo which in actual fact appears to many of them an historical injustice. To fight for collective security always means, therefore, that we must fight for something else at the same time—for universal progress and (which is much the same thing) for economic and social security. [106] The United Nations realized this in 1945, when they surrounded themselves with organizations charged to help establish a peace that would be complete and absolute. That is why the San Francisco Charter envisaged, as essential organs of the United Nations, a Security Council to see the maintenance of political security, and an Economic and Social Council to promote economic and social security. [107] We must never forget that these two tasks are parallel. Above all, we must remember that the needed to establish economic and social security must be all the greater as the task of estab- lishing political security proves more complex and difficult. In other words, the zeal and solicitude of the Specialized Agencies should never be damped by the gravity of the problems confronting the United Nations. For what these Agencies have to do, each in its own sphere, is nothing less than to carry out the mission of liberation which all sincere men expect from them. [108] So long as the peoples suffer, and are beset by menacing problems, how can the mind keep disdainfully aloof? If the mind is divorced from the reality which it is there to explain, and from which it draws its life, it is like a senseless pedant shut up in his library at the top of a tower, whose foundations are already giving way under the pres- sure of an avalanche. The mind, like the other faculties for that matter, can only develop by learn- ing to know life, and taking part in it. And to take part means not merely to understand: it also means to risk; it means, in any case, deliberately to assume responsibility. [109] This courageous attitude implies freedom of judgment, and rules out hesitation. Indeed, there is nothing to prevent the least prejudiced mind from following without discouragement the path it has freely chosen. Irresolution often reflects tragic timidity of character, or sometimes, perhaps, a false and culpable prudence sheltering behind convenient scruples. A truly free decision shows strength of mind. It is on this happy combination of clear reason and strong character that the future of our civilization will, I think, depend. Nowadays, it is a rare and unusual virtue. [110] Such a virtue, as hard to keep as to acquire, MEETINGS 11-3 may not be everybody's guiding quality, but it must be practised all the same by any democratic assembly of intellectuals. For even when they disagree, intellectuals have one thing in common: respect for truth, in whatever form and to whatever extent it is revealed. [111] “All of us together”, thought the peasants in Lope de Vega’s play, every time the judge asked them who was this Fuente Ovejuna with the rough, resounding name. Truth could also say, “all of us together”, for though it is made up of individual discoveries, it is its universal nature that alone gives it its unchangeable value. You see, then, how important intellectual freedomis for an international order and the peace of the world. And as truth in all its forms demands the active co-operation of every individual, you will also realize what a betrayal it would be if the intellectuals were to stand aside when it came to defending truth, and also what a betrayal it would be if they were to show bias in discovering or defining truth. That, indeed, has always been the moral problem of the intellectual, but in the middle of this twentieth century, it has assumed unusual proportions. [112] Is there no way of preventing individual truths from hating, fighting, and destroying one another? Is there no hope that a “universal truth” will one day prevail over individual, national or regional truths? Can we not, without losing ourselves in verbal pacifism, establish a real peace in which all peoples understand one another, and which all desire and think it their duty to uphold? [113] Such are the questions millions of men are asking today. And we—all of us—are responsible for the reply the nations will make. I say all, even those who live in seclusion, far away from politics. For States are not metaphysical entities. They are the creations of man, formed in his image, with his qualities and his defects. The Governments affirmed this axiom when they set up Unesco, especially when they proclaimed in its Constitution that, important though political and economic arrangements might be, “a peace based exclusively upon such arrange- ments would not be a peace which could secure the unanimous, lasting and sincere support of the peoples of the world, and that the peace must there- fore be founded, if it is not to fail, upon the intel- lectual and moral solidarity of mankind”. [114] Throughout the world, hundreds of uni- versities and institutes, thousands of artists and research workers, and millions of students and teachers are today dedicating themselves to the achievement of peace of that kind. Compared with what they are doing, the work of an inter-govern- mental Organization like ours seems modest indeed. Nevertheless, our work is indispensable. We could not abandon it without endangering all those scattered and converging efforts, who would thereby lose their focus. The final object of Unesco is to set intellectual and moral solidarity in action.
11-4 PUENARY [115] It was Flaubert who said that “history, like the sea, is beautiful because of what it washes away”. I would not, for my part, accept that view without adding another: that history is beautiful mainly for what it confirms. And the history of our time will perhaps stand to the extent that it succeeds in fortifying man in his struggle against his worst enemies—the enemies within: selfishness, injustice, anger, and blind obstinacy. May we not be led, through scepticism and weariness, to think this noble struggle vain! In this struggle, ladies and gentlemen, the world counts on Unesco, and Unesco counts on you. MEETINGS 64 [116] The PRESIDENT — You show by your applause that our Director-General has again, in his own inevitable, eloquent language, touched our hearts and our most genuine human feelings, with his account of Unesco’s achievements in the current year and its plans for the year ahead. We are greatly indebted to the Director-General for the clarity as well as the eloquence with which he has described these plans to us. Our next item is the discussion of the Director-General’s report. If no Heads of delegations wish to speak on this topic at this morning’s meeting, we shall now adjourn. The meeting rose at 12.18 p.m. FOURTH PLENARY MEETING Tuesday, 19 June 1951, at 5.45 p.m. President: Mr. HOWLAND SARGEANT (United States of America) CONTENTS Report of the Nominations Committee TRI Establishment of Commissions and Committees . 64
64 Discussion of the Report of the Director-General. Speeches by the delegates of the Netherlands, Switzerland, Lebanon and Haiti. . 65 Report of the Nominations Committee. [1]. The "PRESIDENT The Fourth Plenary Meeting of the General Conference is now open. At the start of this afternoon’s business, I have pleasure in announcing that the payment made by the Government of Bolivia to the Director-General more than covers the contributions due for the years 1948 and 1949 as well as the deposit to the Working Capital Fund. As a result of this payment, Bolivia no longer falls under the provisions of Article IV.8b of the Constitution, and is therefore entitled to exercise its right to vote in this Conference. The Conference will be pleased to learn of this token of the interest which the Government of Bolivia attaches to the Organization. The next item of business is to receive the report of the Nominations Committee. I call upon Mr. Mañach, Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
(2] Mr. Jorge MANACH (Cuba), Chairman of the Nominations Committee — [Translation from the Spanish] afternoon Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, this the Nominations Committee decided on the following nominations for the officers of the Commissions and other subsidiary organs of the Conference: Programme Commission. Chairman: land. Vice-Chairmen: Pakistan; Mexico. teur: Haiti. Administrative Commission. gium. Vice-Chairmen: Peru; Sweden. Official Switzer- Rappor- Bel- Rapporteur: Chairman: Israel. Commission. New Zealand; and External Relations Chairman: Italy. Vice-Chairmen: Austria. Rapporteur: Indonesia. Procedure Committee. Chairman: Turkey. Chairmen: Iraq; Venezuela. Rapporteur: Committee on Reports of Member States. man: Philippines. Rapporteur: Greece. Vice- Ceylon. Chair- Vice-Chairmen: Syria; Liberia. Establishment of the Commissions and Com- mittees. [3] The PRESIDENT — I thank the Chairman of the Nominations Committee for his report. I now — . T I S ج ب I E E E r c g r