563 BUDGET Associations, and the International Organization for Standardization. Convention on Exchange of Publications (page 176). [97] No comments. Scientific and Cultural History of Mankind (page 176). [98] M. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) referred delegates to document 6C/PRG/12—Annual Report from the President of the International Commission for a Scientific and Cultural History of Mankind. He added that the Secretariat was preparing a new docu- ment outlining revised budgetary estimates for the project. [99] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) drew attention to the fact that the detailed budget was given in an annex to the document (pages 17 and 18). That budget had been cut, not by the Executive Board, but after re- examination by the International Commission set up to produce a Scientific and Cultural History of Mankind. [100] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) said that, although the estimates for the project had been reduced at the second meeting of the Commission, on the recom- mendation of the Executive Board, the Secretariat COMMITTEE VIII-10 costs still seemed to him to be excessive. They could doubtless be reduced after decision had been taken by the Administrative Commission on the subject of local salary scales for Unesco. [101] Sir Ronald ADAM (Representative of the Executive Board) pointed out that it was the duty of the Budget Committee to consider whether the estimates submitted were reasonable. In particular, the Executive Board had emphasized that the salaries of staff employed on the project should not exceed those of corresponding members of the Unesco Secre- tariat. [102] Mr. WYNES (Australia) said that his Govern- ment felt the project should be financed from funds outside the normal Budget of the Organization. [103] After further discussion, it was agreed to consider the item more fully at the afternoon meeting, when the Secretariat would have distributed the additional papers. [104] The CHAIRMAN then proposed the establish- ment of a Drafting Committee, comprising the following members: the Chairman, the Vice-Chair- man, the Rapporteur and the delegates of the United Kingdom, Iran, Cuba and Sweden. [105] Agreed. The meeting rose at 7 p.m. TENTH MEETING Friday, 15 June 1951, at 3.30 p.m. Chairman: Miss Caron Laise (United States of America) Examination of the Budget Estimates (con- tinuation) [document 6C/5 (II) ]. Cultural Activities (continuation) (Part III.4). DISSEMINATION OF CULTURE (continuation) (IIT.4.F). Scientific and Cultural History of Mankind (con- tinuation) (page 176). [1] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) presented the budget given in Annex II to the Report from the President of the International Commission for a Scientific and Cultural History of Mankind (document 6C/PRG/12, Annex II), together with a paper giving the same budget adjusted to meet the proposed new salaries and allowances system of Unesco, which would result in an increase of $713 in the budget. [2] Sir Ronald ADAM (Representative of the Execu- tive Board) said that the Board’s aim had been to ensure that salaries should not be greater than those that would have been paid inside Unesco, but not necessarily to ensure that they were the same as those of other organizations.    VIII-10 BUDGET [3] Mr. DURING (Sweden), speaking personally as a university man, would be very glad if the Gener- al Conference were to grant $400,000 to historians for five years. Nevertheless, as the representative of the Swedish Government, he had to maintain the opposite point of. view and would be doing so in the Programme Commission, asking that Unesco should confine itself to grants for convening the Editorial Committee. In trying to estimate whether the pro- posed budget was reasonable, he observed that if the various editions of it were compared, it would be found that the total proposed exceeded the grants made by the three Scandinavian Governments to their National Commissions for all purposes. As an example of excessive estimates, Mr. Diiring quoted the $2,000 allocated to postage, as well as the edi- torial costs. He suggested that the Social Science Bulletin might serve as a guide-line. That also was a quarterly review averaging some 200 pages an issue, but it cost only $14,000. The fees in the present instance seemed excessively high and he thought some reduction should be possible. He noted that on page 17 of document 6C/PRG/12 it was stated that, despite the substantial reduction of $23,300 on administrative and operational costs, the Commission would endeavour to complete its work in the time planned, and he therefore felt that it should equally be possible to effect some reduction in operational and secretarial costs. [4] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) observed that, in the typed document which had just been distributed, the budget for the International Commission for a Scientific and Cultural History of Mankind totalled $70,560. Mr. Guignolet would be interested to know by what method Unesco hoped to recover that sum within a short time. [5] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultur- al Activities) said that the typed document did not represent the budget for the Commission, but was a summary of estimates made by the Secretariat in order to compare the actual budget of the Interna- tional Commission with the total which would be reached if the scales prevailing in the Secretariat were applied. [6] The Commission had begun work in December
1950, and was forced to produce hurried estimates for its budget. After a great deal of planning, it produced new estimates on a more realistic basis. That work was described in the President’s annual report (document 6C/PRG/12), upon which the Budget Committee’s attention should be focused. [7] As a result of careful study, the President of the Commission hoped that Unesco would easily find publishers to accept responsibility for printing the proposed scientific and cultural history, and that its wide circulation in several languages would bring Unesco a good return. It was therefore the case of COMMITTEE “ [10]
564 an “advance” rather than of an irrecoverable sub- vention. [8] It should be added that the Commission had done a large amount of very thorough work, and matters were developing very satisfactorily. The remuneration contemplated would be paid to the world-renowned scholars, who were producing a veritable epitome of the evolution of mankind. [9] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) realized that Unesco had the prospect of recovering the funds laid out, and that in the normal way it ought to be able to secure royalties on*the publication without much difficulty. The President of the International Com- mission had stated in his report that, if the publi- cation contract was such as the Commission was entitled to expect, he was confident that Unesco would recover its funds in a comparatively short time. But, at the Executive Board meeting in May 1951, that same President had been much less optimistic, and had said that Unesco could hope to recover “a good part” of its expenses and recoup, perhaps, up to 50 per cent of the moneys advanced. Indeed, it seemed difficult to hope for more. Mr. DÜRING (Sweden) thanked Mr. Thomas for his explanations and entirely agreed with him con- cerning the excellence of the proposed plan, which Mr. During had studied with care. The historians would, it seemed, work under very favourable con- ditions. The question was, however, whether Unesco could afford to make a grant of the size proposed and commit itself to continuing the grant for five years. He suggested including a note in the report to the effect that some members of the Committee had expressed doubts on the advisability of making so large a grant for the purpose. [11] Mr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) noted that it was proposed to supply the authors of the work with abundant documentation, estimated to cost $1,000. Did that represent a single, non-recurring purchase, or was it an item that would appear in the Com- mission’s budget every year for four years? [12] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) said that the United Kingdom Government was less con- vinced than that of Sweden concerning the excellence of the proposed scheme, but felt that it was a ques- tion for discussion in the Programme Commission. [13] The CHAIRMAN agreed with Mr. Düring, and felt that it was the function of the Budget Committeé to make reservations concerning the proposed ad- ministrative arrangements, which in any case seemed to her very peculiar, since Unesco appeared to have no control over the staff, the servicing, the publi- cations, etc. She suggested that the Committee's report should contain a query on that matter.    BU PV GET [14] Sir Ronald ADAM (Representative of the Exe- cutive Board) said that it had originally been intended that Unesco should service the Commission, but that the experts had objected. The Board had wished to ensure a reasonable budget without inter- fering in the Commission’s business, and had there- fore sought to niake it independent of Unesco, while retaining responsibiliy for it in the Organization. No international non-governmental organization seemed to exist equal to so big a task, and the Board had therefore tried to create a body large enough to deal with it and to meet the criticism which would be hound to arise. He agreed that the details of the scheme would be better left to the Programme Com- mission. [15] The CHAIRMAN agreed that the matter should be passed to the latter Commission to consider in the light of the Committee’s comments. [16] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) said that, since the budget had been prepared, the plan had been changed; it was no longer intended to give the con- tract to a body working as an outside organization. and LiteraturePersonnel Costs: Art page 178). (Table, [17] The CHAIRMAN asked whether there would be any reduction in personnel in view of the elimi- nation of the International Review of the Arts. [18] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cul- tural Activities) said that all that was so far decided was that the Review would not appear in 1951; it was for the Conference to decide whether or not it was to appear in 1952. On that decision would depend whether the post of Layout Specialist, included in the Budget, should be retained or elimi- nated. ACTION IN THE SERVICE OF Human Rıcarts (I11.4.G). Philosophic Enquiry on the Role of Law (page 180). [19] No comments. Right to Share in Cultural and Scientific Progress (page 180). [20] Mr. KRSTIC (Yugoslavia) feared that the work proposed under that item might already be out of date, since the Commission on Human Rights had met the previous month in Geneva and devoted a great part of its time to the question of social and cultural rights. [21] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) won- dered whetherit was necessary to call in the experts COMMITTEE VIII-10 mentioned in item 4.52 to advise governments on the question. Could not the Commission on Human Rights do whatever was necessary? [22] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) asked whether it would not be possible to co-ordinate the activities arising out of Resolution 4.5 (Action in the Service of Human Rights) with those entailed by the imple- mentation of Resolution 1.332 of the Education Department, under which a seminar would be organ- ized for teachers on the development of active methods for education in world citizenship, espe- cially in relation to the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The estimated cost of that seminar was $57,000. [23] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cul- tural Activities) replied that the Commission on Human Rights had, in fact, met in Geneva and had asked various Specialized Agencies, in particular Unesco, to contribute as actively as possible to its work. Unesco’s co-operation had been warmly appreciated, and the texts it had submitted had been accepted almost in their entirety. Thus there was neither contradiction nor duplication, but harmoni- ous co-operation. It was possible that the conclu- sions of the Committee of Experts which it was pro- posed should meet in 1952, might come somewhat late, but the Covenant on Human Rights would be constantly reviewed; the idea of the right to share in cultural life was fairly vague. It was therefore for Unesco to examine everything that the exercise of that right might involve, and to produce concrete plans accordingly for putting it into effect. It was from that point of view that the proposed activity submitted to the Committee was really a constructive one. [24] There should be constant contact between the various departments concerned with the question of Human Rights, so as to ensure that the differ- ent studies undertaken within Unesco progressed smoothly. [25] Mr. DURING (Sweden) said that he had been comparing the proposals of item 4.53 with those contained in the chapter on Education under items
1.832 and 1.344, and wondered whether there was not some duplication and overlapping. There might be some difference in the presentation and destina- tion of the literature, but he wondered whether there was to be any real difference of substance, and doubted whether the item under consideration was really necessary. [26] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) asked if the Secretariat would prepare a list of all the refer- ences to the Declaration of Human Rights which occurred throughout the programme. [27] Agreed. S E E I E E E E E E a E s e    VIII-10 BUDGET [28] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) had already said that he would not oppose the continuation of the subventions, which had been approved, after close examination, by the French National Commission. The International Council for Philosophy and Humanistic Studies was, however, already in receipt of a subvention. How was it possible to justify the extra $10,000 allocated to it under a contract (page 180)? [29] The CHAIRMAN agreed with Mr. Guignolet and other speakers. The programme seemed to be overloaded, and an indication to that effect should be given in the Committee's report. [30] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cul- tural Activities) thought the right reply to the Swedish delegate’s criticism was that the book which the Director of the Education Department planned should be published was more in the nature of a textbook, providing succinct information for schoolchildren. [31] The publications contemplated by the Depart- ment of Cultural Activities, on the other hand, were addressed to the general public, to political circles and to the Press, and would supply more direct information about the implementation of Human Rights in every country, explaining the various stages and the milestones of the process. [32] Mr. Thomas pointed out to Mr. Guignolet that the International Council for Philosophy and Humanistic Studies would not retain in its own possession any part of the sums allotted. [33] The Department assessed the expenditure which Unesco would incur for the work covered by the contract and all expenses would be subject to supporting justification and control. [34] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) could not agree that the $10,000 subvention was not excessive, if the rates in force in Unesco were taken as a basis. The international organizations with which Unesco dealt could certainly work on more modest terms. [35] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cul- tural Activities) replied that that possibility had not been lost to view. [36] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) said he was satis- fied. Mass Communication (Part III.6). PROGRAMME CosTS (IIT.6.A) (page 200). No comment.[37] COMMITTEE 566 IMPROVEMENT OF MEANS AND TECHNIQUES OF CoMMU- NICATION (IIT.6.B). International Institute of Press and Information (page 203). [38] In reply to a question from Mr. MOORE (Australia), Mr. SCHNEIDER (Director, Department of Mass Communication) explained that the Pro- gramme Committee of the Executive Board had decided, in view of the creation of the International Press Institute, that its work might be considered temporarily suspended in the matter. There were no budgetary implications. [39] Sir Ronald ADAM (Representative of the Exe- cutive Board) confirmed that the Programme Com- mittee’s recommendation had been adopted by the Board. Programme Costs and Items. [40] In reply to Sir Frank HARBY (United King- dom), Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) gave the following particulars of the draft resolutions and their esti- mated cost : $ Documentation Centre: Item 6.12 . 3,200 Catalogue and evaluation of Educational Films en Gl nn Radio in Fundamental Education, Item 6.12 Comparative Analysis on World Commu- nications, Item 6.121 . Special Studies, Item 6.121 Visual Education Item 6.14 . . 7,200 Advice to Member States, Item 6.13 25,000 Television, Item 6.15. No budgetary implications.
14,500 [41] In reply to Mr. MOORE (Australia), Mr. SCHNEIDER (Director, Department of Mass Communication) said that it was proposed, under item 6.121, to produce four volumes with an average of 500 pages each, to be printed in two languages. The figures or contractual printing costs were, as always, obtained from the Documents and Publica- tions Service and should be discussed under that heading. [42] As regards item 6.13, Mr. Schneider had understood that missions sent to Member States under the Technical Assistance Programme consisted of technical experts and did not obviate the need for action such as that contemplated in the instance in question. [43] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) observed that in
1952 the Department intended to have a survey made by three experts of the work accomplished by the Canadian Farm Forum in fundamental education. He considered that it would be possible to reduce the    BUDGET total of $16,000 proposed as fees for the three experts, who would be producing a survey of work already done. Alternatively, the number of experts should be reduced. [44] Mr. SCHNEIDER (Director, Department of Mass Communication) said the figures had been largely supplied by the Canadian Farm Forum and the Canadian Government in the hope that Unesco would participate. The total for the survey as a whole was much higher, and the Canadian Govern- ment was itself contributing, possibly as much as Unesco. The suggestion that three experts were too many and that their fees were too high could not be accepted. The salaries contemplated would average only $5,000, which was not undue for the type of person required. In any case, one would probably be at a higher salary and the other two at lower rates. The Secretariat had been guided in the matter by the Canadian Farm Forum, which had itself been anxious for the strictest economy, and the scheme could not be safely undertaken for a lower sum. [45] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) won- dered whether there was not some international non- governmental organization which could do the job better than experts recruited from outside. [46] Mr. SCHNEIDER (Director, Department of Mass Communication) said that each body had its own method of evaluating broadcast programmes, whereas Unesco was anxious to establish an accepted norm. [47] The CHAIRMAN regretted that the Canadian delegate was not present to discuss the matter. She was surprised that, since it was largely a programme of the Canadian Government, the latter was not pre- pared to carry it out itself and to make the findings generally available. Mr. SCHNEIDER (Director, Department of Mass Communication) pointed out that the pro- gramme was unique in the world, and of special interest, as it approached different sections of the [48] population in a bilingual country. While the pro- gramme as a whole had been in progress for 10years, there had been no time to make the survey con- templated, which should be of great advantage to countries other than Canada. It should be of great value to Unesco’s educational activities throughout the world, and it seemed to Mr. Schneider that one of the functions of an international body was to makeit possible for one country properly to evaluate an undertaking for itself and to make the techniques and results available to others. If the matter were left to the Canadian Government, he thought, although speaking without authority, that it would not be done. [49] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) noted that assist- COMMITTEE VIII-10 ance to Member States by the Secretariat in 1952, for increasing the use of the press, the film, the radio or television for cultural purposes, was to cost $25,000. He would like to know the number of missions proposed; which States had formally asked Unesco for assistance; and what sum they would contribute. [60] Mr. SCHNEIDER (Director, Department of Mass Communication) said that the fees of $16,000 mentioned in item 6.12 included secretarial work and various other expenses. [61] With regard to item 6.13, it was proposed to send out three missions, at an average of $7,000 for each expert, each for the greater part of one year. To that should be added approximately $1,000 for travel and equipment. The suggestion that Unesco should wait until formal requests were received from Member Governments before formulating schemes of that type would result in a vicious circle. The Secretariat could not invite Member States to submit requests until the resolution had been passed, but they had .been assured by delegates that requests would be put forward as soon as it was passed. Expenses would be divided about equally between Unesco and the requesting State. [52] The CHAIRMAN thought that a definite query should be included in the Committee’s report con- cerning the Canadian Farm Forum. REMOVAL OF OBSTACLES TO FREE FLow OF INFORMATION (IIT.6.C) (page 209). Personnel Costs (Table, page 212). [53] In reply to the CHAIRMAN, Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Direc- tor-General) said it was proposed to retain an official at Grade 14, (who would not, however, be a legal officer) and to eliminate one Grade 12 programme specialist. [64] Mr. Hodson gave the distribution of items and programme costs as follows: $ Agreements on circulation of materials, Item 6.23 . ee Arrangements for safe transmission of deli- cate physical standards, Item 6.231 . Circulation of persons travelling for edu- cational, scientific or cultural purposes, Item 6.24 E Action and studies to promote the free flow of information, Item 6.25 Review of progress and preparation of future programmes, Item 6.25 .
6,400 [55] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) thought that considerable progress had already been made by governments in eliminating obstacles to the free    VILI-10 BUDGET circulation of persons of every type, and he wondered whether any useful purpose would be served by Unesco’s trying to secure agreements relating to special categories. [66] At the CHAIRMAN's suggestion, it was agreed to indicate in the report that the Committee feared that the funds invested were unlikely to give the hoped for results. [67] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) had some observa- tions to make on the methods suggested by the Secre- tariat for focussing public attention on the measures required to remove obstacles to the free flow of information : the fees proposed for the publication of three new studies in 1952 amounted to $8,000. The Committee should be given details of that item. He noted that, further on, $6,300 were quoted for travel on official business and $3,500 for experts’ fees. Considerable savings could certainly be effected there if Unesco were represented by members of its own staff. [58] Mr. SCHNEIDER (Director, Department of Mass Communication) said that the fees were for three new studies, to be made in consultation with the United Nations, for which possible titles were suggested in the programme [document 6C/5(1), page 100, items (i) to (v)], costing about $2,000 each, leaving $2,000 for revision and bringing up to date studies already published. The travelling expenses were for meetings called by the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies. Mr. Schneider shared Mr. Guignolet’s wishes and hoped that it would be possible in the future for one person to attend more than one meeting on any one journey, but the time and place of such meetings did not always make it possible. The figures given were based on the experience of the past three years and included two trips to the United Nations head- quarters, one to the Economic Commission for Asia and the Far East, one to the Economic Commission for Latin America and three to five trips to Geneva. Unesco was dependent on the agendas and schedules of the United Nations and other Specialized Agen- cies, and their Assemblies and other bodies; it could not fix those in advance.
000711 11] 1-1 1 1 7 [69] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) observed that under the Draft Programme for 1952 (page 100) Unesco proposed to send an expert to the Congress of the Universal Postal Union, to carry forward previously initiated measures. One member of the Secretariat would be ample. On the other hand, he quite under- stood that Unesco should send an expert to the Ple- nipotentiary Conference of the International Tele- communications Union, to promote an allocation of radio frequencies serving the free flow of informa- tion. At least, he would understand it if experience of the work engaged in by ITU in the course of endless meetings of different committees had not, unfortunately, provoked the depressing conclusion that it was practically impossible to achieve any concreet results. In the circumstances, a member of the Secretariat could perfectly well represent Unesco, and travel expenses could be substantially reduced in both instances. [60] Mr. SCHNEIDER (Director, Department of Mass Communication) replied that the proposal raised a difficult question, since the General Con- ference insisted that Unesco should maintain close co-operation with the two bodies. Moreover, the Universal Postal Union had formally invited Unesco to attend its Congress and to submit new pro- posals. Mr. Schneider had already approached the French Government, asking it to nominate a qualified expert. The position was the same with regard to ITU; it had requested Unesco’s attendance. It was true that the results of ITU’s efforts regarding the allocation of radio frequencies had been some- what disappointing. But it was also true that, thanks to insistence by Unesco’s representatives, useful decisions had been taken in favour of insti- tutions whose work was of educational and cultural value. It did not seem to be the moment to throw up the sponge. [61] The CHAIRMAN said that, having regard to the point of view expressed by Mr. Guignolet and to the existing channels, the Committee was bound to consider that the proposed expenditure on the three studies was tremendous; she proposed adding a statement to that effect to the report. The meeting rose at 6 p.m.