ЛОМО тнт COM MTS ST ON ELEVENTH MEETING Saturday, 7 July 1951, at 10.80 a.m. Chairman: Baron van der STRATEN-WAILLET (Belgium) Report of the Headquarters Committee. Item
9.7 of the Agenda (document 6C/ADM/16). [1] After briefly recounting the history of the Headquarters Committee, Mr. DAVIES (Australia) introduced document 6C/ADM/16 and emphasized the fact that, although the Committee had con- sidered the matter very carefully and had made a number of suggestions, it had not felt competent to decide upon the fundamental question whether or not a permanent headquarters should be built. The members of the Committee had not committed their governments. [2] The Committee had considered three main questions: (a) the manner of building; (b) the selection of architects; (c) the future role of the Headquarters Committee, should the Conference decide to proceed with the building. With regard to the first point, the Committee had decided that construction should proceed by stages, according to the urgency of requirements. With regard to the second point, it had been decided that an architect should be appointed provisionally to draw up a general plan for submission to five architects of international standing from different countries. The five architects would make recommendations to the Director-General, who, with the approval of the Headquarters Committee, would adopt a plan and designate an architect to execute it. As regarded the third point, the Committee considered that it should continue to function until the building was completed and that as it was a restricted body, its previous title of Headquarters Commission should be altered to “Headquarters Committee”. [3] The Committee's conclusions were embodied in a resolution on page 2 of the report. [4] Mr. HOCKIN (Canada), referring to Annex II on page 4 of the report, where it was stated that the cost of construction was estimated, at the moment, at $5,800,000, asked the Headquarters Committee how much it considered prices were likely to rise in the future. If prices rose above the sum which the French Government had offered to lend, would Unesco have to find the extra money from other sources? [5] Mr. de LACHARRIERE (France) pointed out that 1t was purely in order to meet the needs indicated and estimated by Unesco that the French Government had decided to offer an interest-free loan. It was obvious that any large change in the estimated amount required would be another matter. Should Unesco meed 2,025,000,000 francs or
2,100,000,000 francs for the building, the French Government's decision would remain unchanged, but it would be quite different if it were found that
3,000,000,000 francs, for example, were required. The general rise in prices was common to every country and it was almost impossible to foresee what dimensions it would assume. One thing, however, was certain, namely that the sooner the project was carried out, the less time there would be for further price rises. Therefore the best protection against a prohibitive rise was to proceed with the building as quickly as possible. [6] The CHAIRMAN wished to repeat how grateful the Commission was to the French Government for its extremely generous offer to Unesco. [7] Mr. MONTAGNIER (Head, Bureau of Con- ference Planning and Genera] Services) stated that the current estimate of 2,025,000,000 francs for the cost of construction had been arrived at by multi- plying the figure representing the total floor- surface required to meet the maximum needs of the Organization by the building cost per square metre, which had risen from 35,000 to 45,000 francs since the Florence Conference. The estimate, allowing for the construction of 43,000 square metres, covered not only the main building, but also special rooms and equipment (conference room equipment, photo- graphic laboratory, etc.). It allowed for the construction of 1,000 offices, a very large conference hall and five or sixfairly large rooms for other meetings. The Headquarters Committee had pro- posed that building should take place in different stages, spread over 20 or 30 years. During the first stage, neither the large conference hall nor 200 of the offices would be built, and that would allow of a saving of 200 to 250 million francs on the estimate of 2,025,000,000 francs. [8] Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom) said that his delegation realized the many advantages of a new building, which would make an imaginative appeal to the world and would be an additional adminis- trative convenience. It also greatly appreciated the French Government’s generous offer. Nevertheless,    VII-11 in view of the stringent economies made at the current session, at which, for the first time, many worthwhile projects had had to be deferred, the United Kingdom delegation was slightly shocked that Unesco should be thinking at the moment of constructing a new building. All delegations had agreed that the existing level of the Organization’s activities should be preserved, and yet the Con- ference was then confronted with a proposal that would cost $192,000 per annum for many years to come. It would be very difficult to justify such expenditure, as things stood, to the millions of people who clearly desired Unesco’s services, and to Governments themselves, which required of Unesco that it should maintain the level of its activity in spite of the difficulties of the times. Unesco's special project for the establishment of Fundamental Education Centres throughout the world was one of the finest projects ever conceived, and it would be most regrettable for the impression to be created that Unesco put the acquisition of a newbuilding for its own use before the establishment of another fundamental education centre. [9] In the United Kingdom delegation’s view, therefore, the proposal should be deferred, even if that entailed some administrative inconvenience, the importance of which should not be exaggerated. [10] Mr. Thompson praised the staunch support which the French delegation had always given to Unesco and begged them to carry their generosity even further by holding their offer open for a few more years. Delay would be to Unesco’s immeas- urable advantage. The negotiations were not yet completed, the Conference had no definite know- ledge of the costs involved, and it could not be said that it was a good time to engage in a building operation of the kind proposed, when all costs were in a state of inflation. [11] The United Kingdom delegation therefore proposed that the first paragraph of the resolution on page 2 of document 6C/ADM/16 should be amended to read: Expresses its gratitude to the French Government for the facilities so generously offered, and decides to study further the proposal to construct the Permanent Head- quarters of the Organization in Paris. [12] The rest of the resolution would then be deleted. [13] The United Kingdom delegation's motion was seconded by Mr. PANGILINAN (Philippines). [14] Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) thought it would be better to avoid the risk of price fluctuations entailed in spreading construction over a long period, and to carry out the whole project without delay. The estimates would thus be as near as possible to the actual cost. ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION 494 [15] The possibility of undertaking the project in existing circumstances had been queried. But the extra expense entailed would be more than offset by the many advantages that Unesco would derive from having a permanent headquarters: for example, there would certainly be an improvement in adminis- trative work. If account were taken of the $50,000 which Unicef would probably pay for office space and of the $100,000 which Unesco would economize on its present rent, it would be seen that the total cost of a building with so many obvious advantages would amount only to an additional sum of $42,000, equivalent to 0.5 per cent of the total budget. The Commission need not, therefore, fear to take a decision that would avoid disappointing those who had shown good will towards Unesco, and would ensure for the Organization a permanent head- quarters in Paris, where all intellectuals felt most at home. [16] Mr. INGRAM (United States of America) asked whether other organizations in Paris had expressed the desire to occupy offices in Unesco's new building, and whether any definite arrange- ments had been made. [17] Mr. MONTAGNIER (Head, Bureau of Con- ference Planning and General Services) replied that it had not yet been possible, for obvious reasons, for Unesco to enter into negotiations with Unicef and other international organizations, but it was anticipated that a certain number of them would wish to have offices in the new building and that some hundred offices would be thus occupied. Furthermore, if the status quo were maintained, Unesco would certainly have to reckon with a considerable increase in its rent. [18] Mr. INGRAM (United States of America) pointed out that the question of office space being occupied by other Specialized Agencies was very important. He realized that no firm arrangements could be made until a building had been constructed, but he hoped that the point he had raised would be borne in mind and that other organizations would be approached when the right time came. [19] The resolution presented by the Headquarters Committee did not place any restriction on the cost or the size of the building. [20] The United States delegation therefore pro- posed the following amendments:
(1) The following words should be added at the end of the first paragraph: “at a cost not to exceed the equivalent of $6,000,000”. If it was found that the cost would exceed that sum, the matter should be brought before the General Conference at a future session.
(2) The following words should be added to para graph 2 (a): “of an interest-free loan, repayable over 2 period of not less than thirty years”. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |    KD WENST EA Ta VE “ (8) A new sub-paragraph 2 (e) should be added, to read: “to negotiate, with the approval of the Head- quarters Committee, with the French Government for the purpose of establishing the Permanent Headquarters of the Organization in Paris”. [21] Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom) observed that the whole problem centred round the cost of the new building. The Secretariat had said that expected rents and existing accommodation com- mitments of the Organization could be deducted from the annual repayment amounting to $192,000. But the whole question of rents was still problem- atical, and the expenditure incurred in moving into a new building would not cease when the move had taken place: there would be extra expenses for furniture and supplies, etc. Mr. Thompson doubted whether it was really correct to deduct from the cost of the new building the whole of the $80,000 mentioned in the last paragraph of page 4 of the report, unless account had been taken of the need to purchase furniture and supplies, and of items such as the rental of telephones, which would increase with the move to a new building. [22] Mr. MONTAGNIER (Head, Bureau of Con- ference Planning and General Services) explained that the saving of $80,000 on the annual cost of rents and other items which Unesco expected to make by erecting a new building represented the two existing rents (an economy of $54,000 and $13,000 respectively), to which should be added a certain economy of $13,000 on common service costs. The pipes and central heating system in the Majestic were so old that constant repairs were necessary: far too much space was wasted, especially in the corridors. As for furniture, Unesco had been renewing it gradually since 1947, so that it would not cost much more to furnish the new building. The estimate of 45,000 francs per square metre covered the installation of a central telephone switchboard and of office telephones.
(23] Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) seconded the two amendments proposed by the United States delegation. He drew attention to the fact that the project did not involve immediate expenditure of funds; it was the next session of the Conference which would have to consider detailed plans and exact estimates established after preliminary study; the current session of the Conference had only to approve the project in principle. He emphasized the great importance of the proposed new building, which would remove the feeling of instability sur- rounding Unesco’s activities. Also, the site offered by France represented capital which would grow In value with every year. He therefore appealed to the Commission to give its authorization on all the points mentioned, particularly as, in so doing, it would not be committing the General Conference. COMMISSION VII-11 [24] The CHAIRMAN requested the delegates of Brazil and Canada together to prepare a new draft resolution. [25] Mr. JOCHAMOWITZ entirely approved the Headquarters Committee's report. He thought it was a primary necessity for Unesco to have its own building. The building it was occupying did not meet either the existing or future needs of the Organization. He expressed his appreciation of the French Government's generosity in making an unprecedented offer. [26] Mr. Jochamowitz stated that a similar question had been discussed at a recent meeting of the World Meteorological Organization. The Swiss and French Governments had both made offers for the construction of the Organization’s headquarters, but neither had been comparable with the offer made by the French Government to Unesco. Neither offer had contained a clause providing for so large an interest-free loan repayable over 30 years. [27] From the report under discussion, it appeared that there would be a considerable economy owing to the difference between annual payments due in the future and existing rental charges. The offer of the French Government was princely and tantamount to a free gift. Translated into terms of private life, it could be taken for granted that the offer to any individual of a site for his house and an interest-free loan repayable over 30 years would give him the greatest satisfaction. It was an offer that could not be rejected, and should be accepted with applause. Any risk involved was for France and not for Unesco. Unesco should maintain its faith in itself, and a means of demonstrating that faith was to accept the offer. The possession of a building of its own would be bound to enhance the Organi- zation’s prestige. [28] Mr. Jochamowitz added that the Head of his delegation had authorized him to offer his services to the Headquarters Committee. As former Minister of Public Works in his own country, he would feel himself honoured to contribute his special know- ledge to the Committee, and he placed that knowledge at the Committee’s disposal. (Peru) said that he [29] Mr. HOCKIN (Canada) seconded the Brazilian proposal that the Director-General should be author- ized to proceed with the drawing up of plans and hiring of architects, and that the next session of the Conference should authorize the construction of the building, if it approved the plans and estimated costs. Such a proposal should satisfy the United Kingdom delegation, as it would not give the impression that the Conference had rushed into the expenditure concerned without giving the matter proper consideration, [30] Mr. Hockin asked if it would be possible for members of the Administrative Commission to view the site offered by the French Government.    VII-11 [31] Mr. HOLGUIN (Colombia) said that his delegation was, in principle, in favour of the French Government's offer. They would, however, be glad of enlightenment on one point: the annual payment to be made for the reimbursement of the French loan was calculated at $192,000, while it was calculated that the savings to be effected by accept- ance of the offer would amount to $130,000. The difference between those two sums was $62,000, and Colombia would be glad of further information as to howthat sum would be obtained. Would the Secretariat indicate whether or not the provision of the sum would involve a supplementary charge on each Member State? [32] Mr. INGRAM (United States of America) thought that the Brazilian and Canadian delegates, whose proposal was quite different from the one before the Commission, should be asked to present it in writing, so that a decision could be taken. He shared the Canadian delegate’s desire to see the site of the building and suggested that the discussion should be suspended until delegates had had an opportunity of visiting it. [33] After a short adjournment of the meeting, Mr. MONTAGNIER (Head, Bureau of Conference Planning and General Services) read the following amendments to the draft resolution in the report of the Headquarters Committee (document
6C/ADM/16, page 2) proposed by Mr. Carneiro: [34] The new paragraph (1) would read: The General Conference:
(1) Expresses its gratitude to the French Government for the facilities so generously offered and decides to proceed with the construction of the Permanent Head- quarters of the Organization in Paris, provided that the total cost does not exceed $6,000,000; [35] Paragraph (2) and its sub-paragraph (a) and (b) would remain unchanged. Sub-paragraph (c) would read as follows: to expend from the construction fund, with the prior approval of the Headquarters Committee, the sums required for the execution of the present resolution. Sub-paragraph (d) would be deleted. [36] A new paragraph (3) would be worded thus: Instructs the Director-General to communicate the plans adopted and the estimates for the construction of the headquarters building to Member States, before the Seventh Session of the General Conference. would then[37] The existing paragraph (3) become paragraph (4). Sub-paragraph (c) of the new paragraph (4) would read: ADMINISTRA TENE COMMISSION 496 it shall make a progress report to the Seventh Session of the General Conference, in order that the latter may authorize the execution of the plans. [38] Mr. de LACHARRIERE (France) proposed that the amendment to paragraph 1 should read “spending up to a maximum of $6,000,000". [39] Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) accepted the amendment. [40] Mr. HOCKIN (Canada) thought it had been decided to authorize the construction of a new building in principle, but not to say that it should take place in the current year. He therefore pro- posed that the United Kingdom amendment to the first paragraph should be adopted with a slight modification so as to read: “Expresses its gratitude to the French Government for the facilities so generously offered, and decides in principle to construct the Permanent Headquarters of the Organization in Paris and to study further the problems involved.” [41] In making his proposal, Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) had wished to make it clear that the Commission accepted formally and finally the principle of constructing the permanent Head- quarters in Paris. He would therefore prefer the existing wording. [42] Mr. de LACHARRIERE (France) thought it needless to say that the French delegation had no intention of pleading in favour of the project, as if France were to derive some special benefit from it. As previous sessions of the Conference had expressed a desire for Unesco to have a permanent Headquarters, the French Government had wished to do all in its power to meet Unesco's wishes. The United Kingdom delegation had apparently been slightly shocked by the building project. For its part, the French delegation had been really shocked to learn of the United Kingdom delegation's shock, for not only had preliminary plans been made in Florence which should have enabled the United Kingdom delegation gradually to grow accustomed to the idea, but also the British Government was represented on the Headquarters Committee, to which it had, incidentally, given constructive advice. The United Kingdom delegate had said that if Unesco wished to convince public opinion of its efficacy, it would do better to spend its money on programme activities. But several delegates had rightly pointed out that better material conditions would enable Unesco to improve its organization and discharge its duties more efficiently. If the Com: mission wished to justify the criticism that Unesco never went further than making enquiries, it had only to accept the United Kingdom proposal. The Commission should, on the contrary, pass at once
497 to the phase of action, whilst leaving the final decision to the General Conference. Was there any man professing a religion who believed that all money should be given to charity and none to the Church? The French delegation regretted the lack of enthusiasm shown by certain delegations. It would vote against the United Kingdom proposal and was in favour of the mew draft resolution as amended by the delegate of Brazil. [43] Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom) agreed that the proposal was not new, but observed that the purpose of his amendment was to defer its implementation for the time being, because his delegation considered that it was untimely. He felt obliged to adhere to his original proposal. After the first paragraph, amended as he had suggested, a second paragraph might be inserted reading: “Decides that the Headquarters Committee shall continue to function and shall present a report to the Seventh Session of the General Conference.” [44] The United Kingdom amendment was rejected by 22 votes to 10, with 2 abstentions. [45] The Brazilian delegation’s amendments were adopted by 26 votes to 5, with 2 abstentions. [46] The whole resolution, as amended, adopted by 28 votes to 0, with 3 abstentions. was [47] Mr. de CLEMENTI (Italy) was gratified by the vote on the question of the permanent Head- quarters and wondered whether it would not be desirable at once to extend the membership of the Headquarters Committee, which had been restricted in Florence to a small number.
(48] The CHAIRMAN feared that paragraph (4) of the resolution just adopted made it impossible to extend the membership of the Committee im- mediately. [49] Mr. de CLEMENTI (Italy) replied that it was simply a matter of increasing the Committee's efficacy. The Commission had only to decide that the Committee should be composed, for the future, of ten instead of seven members, and that it should continue to operate until the building was finished. [50] Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) thought that the matter should be considered carefully by the General Conference, as a problem of technical ability was involved. [51] Mr. JOCHAMOWITZ (Peru) agreed that it was for the General Conference to take a decision on that point. [52] The following additional statement might be APMINTSTRA TU VE COMMISSION VII-11 included in the Commission's report to the Con- ference: The Administrative Commission recommends to the General Conference that three addi- tional members be appointed to the Headquarters Com- mittee, on the report of the Nominations Committee; the three new members would be selected for their particular technical ability. [53] Miss LAISE (United States of America) pointed out that countries and not individuals had to be elected to the Headquarters Committee, so that it was impossible to speak of competence. [54] Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) replied that the Commission would be laying itself open to criticism if the new members of the Headquarters Committee were to be accused of incompetence. He therefore hoped that the Conference would decide that the problem of technical ability should be taken into consideration. [55] Miss LAISE (United States of America) suggested that the Commission should recommend the Conference to urge Member States elected to the Headquarters Committee to send representatives competent in the field with which that Committee was concerned. [56] Mr. de LACHARRIÈRE thought it so obvious that ability should be taken into consideration that it was unnecessary to mention it. [57] The proposal to extend the membership of the Headquarters Committee by the addition of three new members was adopted by 19 votes to 0, with
3 abstentions. Office Space for Permanent Delegations—Draft Resolution Presented by the Brazilian Dele- gation (document 6C/DR/81). [58] After hearing the Budget Committee’s com- ments on the draft resolution the previous day, Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) had decided to withdraw it. Report by the Director-General on the Or- ganization's Activities and General Policy in the Field of Publications (document 6C/PRG/16). [59] Mr. DELAVENAY (Head, Documents and Publications Service) stated that the Publications Fund established by the General Conference at its
1948 and 1949 sessions had a credit of $125,000, which was used for the printing or reprinting of publications of which Unesco held the copyright, etc. . . . There had been criticisms in     VII-11 various quarters that such publications were little known and difficult to find. But sales could not be developed to the maximum unless funds were available for the purchase of advertising space or for publicity in the bookselling trade. That was the reason for the draft resolution, contained in Annex XIV to the Director-General’s report, modi- fying the regulations for the use of the Publications Fund and authorizing the Director-General to draw on the Fund, to the extent of $12,000 a year, for the sums required to finance essential publicity. The Programme Commission had approved the draft resolution, subject to its acceptance by the Adminis- trative Commission. It would be useful if authority could be given to draw that monthly sum of $1,000 from the Fund as from July 1951. [60] Mr. de CLEMENTI (Italy) thought that, if the publications were interesting enough, they should not need advertising. At a time when so many activities had to be restricted, it seemed inappropriate for Unesco to follow the practice of commercial firms. [61] Mr. INGRAM (United States of America) supported the proposal contained in Annex XIV and also the request that the authority given should be retroactive to 1951, so that the Director-General could draw on the Fund during the current year to finance publicity. [62] The United States proposal was seconded by Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom). [63] The CHAIRMAN took a vote on the draft resolution contained in Annex XIV to the report (document 6C/PRG/16), with the United States amendment, consisting in the addition, at the end of the first paragraph, of the following words: The authority thus given shall be effective as from the last six months of 1951. [64] The draft resolution, with the above amendment, was adopted by 23 votes in favour, with 1 abstention. Report of the Working Party of the Procedure Committee on the Implementation of the Prin- ciple of Biennial Sessions of the General Con- ference (document 6C/PRO/12). [65] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) said that the Secre- tariat wished to take up with the Budget Committee and with the Procedure Committee itself certain points which did not, however, concern the Administrative Commission. ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION 498 [66] While supporting the actual recommendations contained in the report, Mr. INGRAM (United States of America) pointed out that some very serious questions were raised and left unsolved. For example, paragraph 4 (b) on page 2 raised the difficult question of financial relations between Member States and the Organization, the timing of appropriation procedures in each country, and the disposal of surplus balances at the end of the first financial year. In his opinion, the Administrative Commission should not pass judgment on the conclusions of the Working Party, more particularly with reference to paragraph 4 (b), until the Con- ference had taken a decision on the proposal to hold a special administrative session every other year. [67] Mr. RICHNER (Switzerland) approved in principle the report transmitted by the Procedure Committee and supported the proposals adopted by the Procedure Committee at the request of the United Kingdom delegation, as shown on page 2 of document 6C/PRO/12. He could not, however, accept paragraph 5 which, at the French delegation's suggestion, invited Unesco to convene every two years a limited session of the General Conference to take decisions on certain financial questions. The programme, and therefore the whole of Unesco's activities, depended upon the budget. Such an arrangement would thus be tantamount to a return to annual sessions of the Conference. The Swiss delegation therefore proposed that the deletion of paragraph 5 should be recommended to the Pro- cedure Committee. [68] Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom) thought it should be made clear that paragraph 5 was cast in the form of a suggestion, and he hoped that the Director-General and the Executive Board, in report- ing to the Seventh Session of the Conference, would take that suggestion into account, as well as the point raised by the United States delegate. [69] Mr. de CLEMENTI (Italy) was in favour of adopting the proposals contained in document
6C/PRO/12. Special consideration should be given to the question of the desirability of a limited annual session to take decisions on certain financial matters, as it tended to emphasize the difficulties of instituting a budget covering two financial years. [70] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) drew attention to the resolution contained in the third paragraph on page 5 of the Working Party’s report, which dealt with the point raised by the United Kingdom delegate. [71] The CHAIRMAN proposed that the Adminis- trative Commission should state that it had taken    ADMINTSTRATIVYE note of the report of the Working Party set up by the Procedure Committee. As some delegates had objected to paragraphs 4 (b) and 5, the Commission recommended that they should be reconsidered before the next session. [72] Mr. BILLY (France) thought that the Administrative Commission should give some indication of the lines to be followed in reconsider- ing the points mentioned. He recalled that one of the main objections to the adoption of the principle of biennial session had been connected with the budget. It had been pointed out that, at a time when prices were rising, it would almost certainly be necessary for the estimates for the whole budget- ary period to be reviewed by a limited session of the Conference, to be convened at the end of the first year. [73] Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) recalled that the Executive Board had the right to convene extra- ordinary sessions. After the next session of the General Conference, therefore, the matter should be left to the Board's discretion. [74] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) proposed the follow- ing motion: : The Administrative Commission Takes note of the report of the Working Party of the Procedure Committee on the implementation of the prin- ciple of biennial sessions of the General Conference and Is of the opinion that points 4 (b) and 5 require further study and that a report on them should be sub- mitted to the next session of the General Conference. [75] The motion was adopted unanimously. Other Questions. Item 9.8 of the Agenda. Motion concerning the Contribution of Austria (document 6C/DR/85). [76] Mr. ZEISSL (Austria) gave a short history of the question of Austria’s contribution, which was of such importance to his country. Austria was not a Member of the United Nations. Upon Austria’s joining Unesco in 1947, Unesco had asked the United Nations Committee on Contributions What Austria's probable percentage would be, were she a Member of the United Nations, and the reply had been given that Austria would be assessed at
0.26 per cent in the United Nations scale. In view of Austria's considerable financial difficulties, how- ever, Unesco's General Conference had reduced her percentage to 0.12 per cent. Austria had been assessed at that figure until the end of 1950, when the Executive Board had asked the United Nations Whether events since Austria had been assessed COMMISSION VII-11 warranted a change in her percentage. The United Nations replied that Austria’s percentage should be raised to a figure between 0.30 per cent and
0.35 per cent. The Executive Board had decided to take 0.30 per cent as the basis for Austria’s assessment in 1951, but had applied to that figure the pro- portionate reduction previously granted to Austria, resulting in the figure of 0.14 per cent. The Con- ference had confirmed the Board’s decision for 1951, but, for 1952, the Administrative Commission had recommended that Austria should be assessed at
0.30 per cent, without any reduction. That implied an increase of 100 per cent in Austria’s con- tribution. [77] In view of the abrupt and large increase, the Austrian delegation felt that it had a certain grievance and wished to ask the Administrative Commission to reconsider its decision, and to allow Austria’s contribution to be increased gradually over a period of three years, as proposed in document
6C/DR/85. [78] Explaining the consequences of the Adminis- trative Commission’s decision, Mr. Zeissl pointed out that it would be impossible to hide the sum in the national budget and that the psychological and political effects would be serious. Austria’s economic position had deteriorated and would deteriorate further between 1951 and 1952: prices and wages were soaring and Austria did not have the compensations of other countries, as she depended so largely on imports; other countries might not consider the sum involved very important, but it was large when considered in Austrian schillings, and would have to be found by drawing on funds intended for educational and cultural purposes, such as the publication of the results of research, scholarships for study abroad, etc. Pro- fessors’ salaries were low in Austria, and scholars and public opinion in general would be shocked at such an increase in Austria’s contribution to Unesco, which would fill Unesco’s supporters in Austria with a feeling of despondency and frustra- tion. He pointed out that Austria had always been a loyal supporter of Unesco and had been punctilious in paying her contributions. [79] In view of the distressing situation which he had mentioned, Mr. Zeiss] moved that the Adminis- trative Commission should re-open the debate on Austria’s contribution and that it should adopt document 6C/DR/85. [80] The CHAIRMAN said that it was his painful duty to confirm the unanimous opinion expressed by the General Committee. It would be extremely unwise to go back on a decision taken: such a precedent would have a prejudicial effect on future discussions. He therefore proposed that the Com- mission should take note of the earnest and moving appeal made by the Austrian delegate and express its regret that it could not go back on a decision taken.    VII-11 Any Member State which felt that it had a grievance had always a right of appeal to the General Con- ference. [81] With due respect to the Chair, Mr. ZEISSL (Austria) recalled that, two days previously, the Chairman had stated that the Commission was at all times master of its own agenda. The New Zealand delegate also had said that the Commission was always free to reconsider a decision and re-open a debate. He therefore appealed to the Commission to re-open the debate on Austria’s contribution, in view of the fact that the matter was of such importance to his country. [82] Mr. de CLEMENTI (Italy) realized that it was dangerous to re-open a discussion on the contribu- tions of Member States; the question could, however, be re-opened at a plenary meeting of the Conference when the Administrative Commission's report was adopted. As there was that possibility of re-opening the matter, he thought it would be wise to consider the arguments put forward by the Austrian delegate. [83] The Italian delegate’s proposal was seconded by Messrs. RICHNER (Switzerland), ICAZA (Mexico), SANDBO (Norway), MANACH (Cuba), and MASSAQUOI (Liberia). [84] The Commission agreed, by 27 votes to 1, to re-open the debate. [85] Mr. ZEISSL (Austria) observed that resolution
6C/DR/85 had been drafted at a time when his delegation could not tell when the matter would be discussed, so that certain changes in wording might be necessary. [86] With regard to paragraph (3), the recommen- dation applied to the special case of Austria, but the names of other States in the same position should perhaps be added. ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION [87] Mr. de CLEMENTI (Italy) had been deeply moved by the Austrian appeal. Unesco could not allow itself, by increasing the contribution of a State in financial difficulties, to oblige that State to reduce its own educational and cultural activities. It was therefore just and humane to consider Austria’s special problems. [88] Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) requested the Secretariat to quote figures showing the con- sequences of rescinding the decision taken on Austria’s contribution, in order that the Commission might know how farit was possible to assist Austria. [89] The CHAIRMAN replied that the Secretariat would automatically have to produce the estimate requested if the Austrian motion were adopted. [90] In any case, he pointed out that paragraph(3) of the resolution should refer to a recommendation addressed, not to the Committee on Contributions, but to the General Conference. [91] Explaining why his delegation had opposed the re-opening of the debate, Mr. MOORE (Australia) said that, while deeply sympathizing with the arguments of the Austrian delegate, the Australian delegation feared that, if Austria's request were granted, other countries in the same position would feel that they had a grievance, as they could proba- bly have put forward the same convincing arguments. [92] The Austrian proposal contained in document
6C/DR/85 was adopted by 26 votes to 1. [93] Mr. ZEISSL (Austria) expressed the Austrian delegation’s deep gratitude to the Administrative Commission. The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m.