IV-15 PROGRAMME shown in his country. He had found so much support for the project, of which his delegation had had the honour to be in some sense the initiator, that he had not felt it necessary to attend in order to push forward the work, but merely to be present at its fruition. Paris would always be associated C'OMMTS SE TON 372 with the roots of American freedom and, indeed, with the freedom of the world: Mr. Stoddard closed by saying how moved he had been by the demonstra- tion of affection for his country that day. The meeting rose at 1 p.m. FIFTEENTH MEETING Wednesday, 4 July 1951, at 3.30 p.m. Chairman: Mr. A. Castro LEAL (Mexico) Special Project for the Establishment of a World Network of Regional Fundamental Education Centres (continuation) (documents
6C/PRG/3 and 6C/PRG/29). [1] Mr. CALO (Italy) stated that his delegation observed that the Commission was approaching una- nimity on the general lines of the Working Party’s report. The Italian delegation was anxious to avoid excessive centralization in the special fundamental education project. It considered that the conscience and beliefs of the peoples, as well as their funda- mental human rights, should be respected in the world campaign against ignorance, and hoped that it would develop to the utmost the cultural and reli- gious individuality of the peoples benefiting from it. [2] Mr. Cald therefore submitted, in the name of his delegation, the following resolution which was intended to supplement the report under con- sideration. The Programme Commission, noting the requests made by several States for the headquarters of one of the fundamental education centres to be set up intheir ter- ritory, thus demonstrating the most generous goodwill and a spirit of responsibility and co-operation which encourage the highest hopes, Decides: (a) That a second centre be set up during 1952; (b) That, since not all the requisite data on which to base an immediate and well-founded decision is yet available, the Director-General be instructed to undertake, in agreement with the Executive Board and the countries concerned, such study and negotiations as may enable a choice to be made in consideration of the conditions objectively most favourable to the establishment and operation of the centre. [3] Mr. PRUDENCIO (Bolivia) remarked that the problem of fundamental education was of special interest to his country, because there were many indigenous groups in Bolivia descended from a civilization no less ancient or rich in traditions than the Mexican, but fallen back into so primitive a state that great efforts would be required to mobilize them once more in the cause of civilization and culture. [4] Mr. Prudencio recalled that the Warizata school had been set up in his country, and that it had served as a model for the establishment of other similar centres. It was necessary to train men and citizens who could afterwards be useful to culture and civilization, by awakening the creative spirit in them, and inculcating the new way of life which the modern Western world could offer them. [6] His Government had approached Unesco with a request for technical assistance, especially during
1950, when the Organization had sent its first mission to Bolivia, consisting of two Latin American pro- fessors, who, after studying the situation in the coun- try, had sent a report to Unesco. [6] The Bolivians owed much to European teach- ing methods, and more especially to Belgium. One of the first missions to his country had been led by a well-known Belgian educationist, who had trained generations of teachers and instituted European edu- cational traditions in Bolivia. [7] Bolivia was prepared to receive a new funda- mental education centre. As regarded the other South American countries, however, and, in partic- ular, Brazil, which was also anxious to have such a centre, Mr. Prudencio pointed out that, although the groups of illiterates were exceedingly large in that country, they were entirely different in racial and cultural origin from those of Peru, Ecuador, Bolivia and Northern Argentina. The geographical position of his country, which was in the heart of America, was a great advantage. Experiments car- ried out in Bolivia could easily be extended and adapted to its neighbours.   | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | A    ب ا ل س ح ر ا ل ح m m m ‏ م— و ر ح م A ‏
373 PROGRAMME [8] For all those reasons, it was necessary to set up fundamental education centres in countries belonging to regions with a real racial, cultural and spiritual unity; and undoubtedly the country which best satisfied that condition was Bolivia. [9] The CHAIRMAN thanked the Bolivian delegate for his statement, but stressed that, in his opinion, the Working Party’s report should not give rise to a discussion on the headquarters of the new funda- mental education centre. [10] Mr. van PEURSEN (Netherlands) said that, in view of his country’s historical interest in funda- mental education and of the fact that there were in the Netherlands special centres for the study of its various aspects, his delegation was entirely in favour of the creation of fundamental education centres as suggested in document 6C/PRG/29, although there would have to be fuller discussion of the structure, geographical distribution and pro- grammes of the different centres. His country would help to forward the work of fundamental education by all the means in its power, including the provision of experts. [11] Mr. KRAMET (Pakistan) expressed his sup- port for the project and his country’s readiness to promote fundamental education both at home and abroad. [12] TAHA HUSSEIN Pasha (Egypt) recalled that Egypt had already assured Unesco of its support for fundamental education, and that the Egyptian Government had asked that its country should be chosen as the headquarters of a centre which could serve other African and Arab countries. He also recalled that Egypt had just received a fundamental education mission from Unesco, which had worked in co-operation with representatives of the Arab coun- tries. The Egyptian delegation had been pleased to learn that Lebanon was similarly offering to receive a new fundamental education centre, placing at its disposal the buildings which had housed the Beirut Conference. While he much appreciated the Leba- nese Government’s generosity, the Egyptian delegate considered that the fundamental education centre should be set up in a country which was still highly agricultural, and where illiteracy still constituted a threat. That was fortunately not the situation in Lebanon, whereas Egypt had 50 per cent of illiter- ates out of a population of 20 million. Moreover, the Egyptian Government's educational activities ex- tended beyond its own frontiers to other Arab and African States, to which Egyptian teachers had been sent on missions. Egypt was thus already serving as a cultural centre for that part of the world. It was anxious to show its goodwill by making every effort to spread fundamental education. The Egyptian Government was not only prepared to offer head- COMENTES ON IV-15 quarters to the new fundamental education centre, but also to bear a large part of the expenses. While Unesco would have to pay some of the centre's ex- penses to begin with, it would shortly benefit from financial support from the Egyptian Government, which also intended to provide the link between Unesco and the Arab countries. [13] Mr. al-YASSIN (Iraq) drew attention to the differences in language and cultural background among the various countries of the Middle East, and expressed the hope that, in determining the site of centres, Unesco would not regard the Middle East as forming a single cultural region. Several countries of the Middle East had submitted requests for centres and Mr. al-Yassin would support the view, expressed by the Brazilian delegate at the Commission’s four- teenth meeting, that there should be more than one centre in the Middle East. He further suggested that a mission of experts might survey the Middle East region and submit its findings to the Executive Board for decision. [14] Mr. MONTANER (Uruguay) was happy to see that most countries were so keenly interested in the problem under discussion and were filled with a desire to solve the question in the best possible way and to co-operate in the fulfilment of a programme which was of fundamental importance to Unesco as a cultural entity. He recalled that the third edu- cational Seminar had been held in Uruguay, under the auspices of the Organization of American States, in co-operation with Unesco, and that a true spirit of collaboration had been manifest between the numer- ous delegations present, while the urgent need to solve the problem of educating the masses had been recognized. [15] His country accepted without reservation Unesco’s ideals and objectives, and was prepared to co-operate in the solution of the problem. [16] Mr. Montaner shared the opinions voiced by the representatives of the Specialized Agencies who had offered their collaboration during the discussions, and expressed his approval of the report presented by the Joint Meeting “of the Budget Committee and the Working Party on the special project for the establishment of a world network of regional funda- mental education centres. [17] Mr. Montaner also agreed with the opinion ex- pressed by the Italian delegate, who was anxious to generalize the aims and methods of fundamental education. Similarly, he endorsed the Mexican dele- gate’s remarks concerning the means to be used for most effectively solving the problem, and finally, he shared the French delegate’s view on how the necessary financial support might be found to solve the problem under consideration quickly and satis- factorily. [18] Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) supported the     PRO CRSACM:ME project as outlined in document 6C/PRG/29 and approved the Director-General’s suggestion for financing it from the normal budget. Furthermore, in entire agreement with the point made by the French delegate at the previous meeting, he felt that the choice of site was a matter of strategy, which did not fall within the competence of the Conference but which should be left to the Director-General and the Executive Board for decision, on the basis of detailed information from the Governments concerned. He appreciated the encouraging measure of support which the project had received, but noted that many of the countries with the most urgent needs had not offered any substantial support. [19] Mrs. SEN (India) suggested that it would not be wholly true to suggest that “the full resources needed to put the plan into immediate effect cannot yet be assured”, since the project was to be put into effect immediately, at least in part. She therefore proposed the insertion after “plan” of the words “in its entirety”. [20] Mrs. Sen indicated that her Government would fully support every measure designed to permit the implementation of the fundamental education project. India’s need was particularly acute because adult franchise had recently been introduced, with the re- sult that India had a large and illiterate body of electors. The problem of illiteracy was the more difficult, because of the extent of India’s territory, the density of her population, and the diversity of her many spoken languages. [21] Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) welcomed the proposal to establish a regional fundamental education centre in the Middle East; that region had much to learn and much to contribute to the world literacy cam- paign. Nevertheless, he would be unable to support the requests for centres made by Egypt and Lebanon, unless and until they allowed Israeli experts access to such a centre. For that reason he would support Turkey’s request. [22] Mr. BENITEZ (United States of America) noted with pleasure the moving support for the fundamental education project, which justified the Working Party’s decision to ask for funds to be made available from the normal budget. [23] In approving document 6C/PRG/29, it was important to bear in mind one of the Working Party’s main concerns, namely to provide for flexibility in the interpretation of the word “region”, since there were countries like China, India and Brazil which, by reason of their size, might be regarded as constituting regions by themselves; flexibility in determining the number of centres and in the future development of the project was also necessary. [24] By approving the report and initiating the project, Unesco would be entering on a new phase COMMISSION of achievement and creative work and offering fresh hope to the peoples of the world. [25] Mr. LAMB (Canada) fully endorsed the views expressed by the United Kingdom delegate. [26] Mr. SAGLAM(Turkey) said that his delegation had noted with satisfaction the numerous offers made to house the new fundamental education centre. Personally, he was anxious to press the need for thorough study of the question by experts before any definite decision was taken, and he therefore sup- ported the proposal of the Italian delegation. [27] Mr. JAUME (France) stated that the French delegation had sent to the Secretariat two draft amendments to document 6C/PRG/29. He also sup- ported the Italian delegate's proposal, which had met with approval from several delegations. It was true that, if rivalry was to be avoided between countries of the same region, so that the selection might be based solely on technical considerations, the Commission was at the moment insufficiently informed to take a decision immediately. Mr. Jaume therefore called for a far-reaching enquiry, the re- sults of which would be submitted to the Executive Board. [28] Mr. van ZYL (Union of South Africa) asso- ciated himself with the remarks of the delegates of the United Kingdom and Canada on the problem of financing the project. His country’s experience in fundamental education for literacy, health and agri- culture showed the need for caution, and he there- fore joined the Turkish delegate in recommending the most careful study of proposed sites. [29] Mrs. PICHON-LANDRY (International Coun- cil of Women) stated that the International Council of Women was very gratified at the place given in Unesco’s programmeto the dual problem of women's access to education and their civic training. The council was awaiting with interest the results of the enquiries undertaken by Unesco in 1951, as well as of the Fifteenth Conference on Public Education, which was to deal especially with problems of women’s opportunities for education. The Council was anxious to emphasize the substantial and effective aid which women could give in the execution of Unesco’s programme. Their help was particularly important, whether in the teaching of children about the work and principles of the United Nations, or in pre-school education and fundamental education in general. Women’s associations were everywhere working with those who had tackled that work of education, both at the national and international level. Finally, the Council requested that a large number of women might be allowed to benefit from the programme for the training of teachers, and that      | | | | | | ‎ؤ | | | | | | | |
375 PROGRAMME the provisions of Resolutions 1.211 might be given the widest possible application, so that women might take part in Unesco’s fundamental education pro- gramme. [30] Miss de SAINT-MAURICE (World Union of Catholic Women's Organizations) said that women's circles were hoping that the world project for funda- mental education would result in the gradual elimina- tion of the inequalities between men and women in education, and in the effective recognition of the dignity of women. Quoting from a statement by Mrs. Ikramullah, Pakistan delegate to the United Nations Assembly in 1948, Miss de Saint-Maurice stated that many men and women of all races were hoping to see Unesco score a success which would be all the more rapid if it paid greater attention to those fundamental and universal human attributes which were expressed in moral and religious aspira- tions, and if it found a place for spiritual values in its fundamental education programme. The Union asked the delegates to bear in mind that attitude of a large part of world opinion when adopting the definition of fundamental education and the pro- visions relating to the special fundamental education project. [31] The CHATRMAN asked the Commission to vote on document 6C/PRG/29, inserting the Italian dele- gation’s proposal after paragraph 6. [32] The SECRETARY pointed out that it had been proposed to change the first line of paragraph 3 on page 2 of document 6C/PRG/29 to read: “to put the plan in its entirety into effect”, and to insert the words: “it being understood that this method of financing shal] not constitute a precedent for future years” before “and with allocations” in the fifth line of the same paragraph. [33] Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) won- dered whether the Italian delegation’s proposal was directed at all the centres to be set up throughout the years to come, including 1952. He also wondered whether it was their intention that the Director- General and the Executive Board should be guided by the proposals made in the course of the debate. [34] Mr. CALO (Italy) said that his delegation had thought mainly of the new centre to be set up in
1952, when it urged that the question of the most favourable technical conditions should be studied. [35] Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) thought that, in future, the Commission should decide whether the Executive Board and the Director-General should give consideration to offers made to them. He was anxious that Unesco should take note of such offers, so that the interested States might prepare to reply at the appropriate time to a concrete proposal from Unesco. COMMISSION 17-5 [36] Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) said that the Director-General should be free to take into considera- tion requests which had not been put forward in the course of the meeting in progress and which might be received later from governments. Some Member States might have special reasons for not coming forward immediately. [37] Soliman HOZAYEN Bey (Egypt) pointed out that the sums shown in the Annex to document 6C/ PRG/29 would not suffice to finance a centre and that, in making their offers, governments should bear in mind the fact that the host country was ex- pected to provide material and financial aid. [38] Soliman Huzayyen Bey further considered that the site should be chosen according to the need, and that centres should be established in countries where their impact would have the most immediate and satisfactory results. In that connexion, he would draw attention to the remarks of the Brazilian dele- gate, the racial problem in whose country would make it a suitable site for a Unesco experiment in the education of racial and ethnic groups living side by side. He hoped that the points raised by the Brazilian delegate would be brought to the attention of the Director-General and the Executive Board. [39] Mr. CALO (Italy) recognized the importance of the points raised by the Brazilian delegate, and emphasized that the preamble to his delegation’s draft proposal might meet them. He proposed that a list of the States concerned should be inserted after the words “several States” in the opening sentence of the Italian draft. [40] Mr. LAMB (Canada) agreed with the United Kingdom delegate that the choice of site should be left to the Director-General and the Executive Board. The suggestions of the Brazilian and Egyptian dele- gates might serve as criteria in that choice. [41] Mr. MOORE (Australia) took the same view as the delegates of the United Kingdom and Canada. [42] Mrs. PECSON (Philippines) agreed with the suggestions contained in paragraphs 5 and 6 of the recommendations (document 6C/PRG/29) but drew attention to the financial responsibilities implicit in approval of the report. She hoped that, in approv- ing that document, delegates would bear in mind the fact that the figures contained in the Annex were lower than those for the total cost of the project (document 6C/PRG/3, page 5) and that the approval of the initial appropriation would have to be followed by measures to obtain additional money from the nationals of their countries. [43] Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) recalled that the Executive Board and the Director- General had never yet had to take important decisions e a
17-5 PROGRAMME alone regarding the setting up of Unesco’s regional centres, such as the Fundamental Education Centre at Patzcuaro, the Havana Regional Office and the Montevideo Science Co-operation Office. The General Conference had always given instructions in advance, following a general debate. The Commission should therefore bear the precedents in mind. Personally, Mr. de Berredo Carneiro was prepared to accept a formula which would dissociate the problem of the future headquarters of the fundamental education centre from the report itself. He proposed that a resolution should be adopted, recommending the setting up of regional fundamental education centres in Brazil, Turkey, etc., inviting the Director-General to undertake a detailed study, and providing for all future demands to be taken into consideration. was[44] Document 6C/PRG/29, as amended, adopted unanimously. [45] Mr. PRUDENCIO (Bolivia) asked that, for the reasons he had already stated, Bolivia should be included among the countries which the Secretariat would consider suitable for the establishment of a fundamental education centre. [46] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL emphasized that the Conference would be in an awkward position if the number of offers exceeded that of the centres contemplated. To date, seven countries had offered to receive a fundamental education centre. The initial project, which incidentally had not been adopted, allowed only for the establishment of six centres. Yet it had not been found possible to carry out even that project in the immediate future. The Director- General was therefore afraid that Unesco might make promises which could not be kept. What would the public think if it were told, on the one hand, that Unesco had undertaken to set up at least seven funda- mental education centres, and, on the other, that funds had had to be borrowed from the normal budget to enable thefirst centre to be set up in 1952? He him- self agreed with Mrs. Pecson's counsel of prudence. He thought that all Member States should be invited to make a financial contribution to the execution of the special fundamental education project. In that way, Unesco would be able to make soundly based pro- mises. In the circumstances, he proposed that the Commission should adopt a general resolution, open- ing the door to all the requests that had been put forward, and also to effective financial co-operation from Member States, so as to ensure that the scheme for a world network of fundamental education centres would flourish after 1952. That overall aspect of the problem had unfortunately not been considered at all by the Commission, which had confined itself to the maintenance of the Patzcuaro Centre and the estab- lishment of a new one for 1952. COMMISSION 376 [47] Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) under- lined that, at the suggestion of the Pakistan delegate, the Working Party had rejected the suggestion that any limit should be set to the world fundamental education project. The scheme was moreover chiefly designed for certain under-developed countries. He thought the world should be made aware of the re- sources which would be needed to achieve it. The nations which had inaugurated the technical assistance programme should consider a similar plan for fundamental education. For that reason, it was important to make known the number of States interested in such an undertaking. He therefore asked the Commission to give its support, in principle, to the draft resolution he had previously submitted. [48] Mr. BENITEZ (United States of America) con- gratulated the Director-General on his leadership, which once again had set Unesco on the road to concrete achievement. [49] The step just taken, in the face of imminent financial difficulties, would draw the attention of the world to the gap between its educational needs and its resources, and to the existence of an organization dedicated to the service of mankind through edu- cation, science and culture, which was appealing for voluntary aid in the achievement of its aims. Far from detracting from the reputation of Unesco, such an appeal would contribute to it, if the peoples of the world could be made to realize that Unesco had the will to carry out that great project, that it had the unanimous support of all nations, but that its finan- cial resources were insufficient. If that fact were brought home to all peoples, there was no reason to suppose that the response would not be forthcoming. [50] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL thanked the United States delegate, who had already taken anactive part in the work of the Havana Conference and in the preparation of the project for the establishment of regional fundamental education centres. He entirely agreed with Mr. de Berredo Carneiro on the need to inform world opinion of the number of requests put forward. He suggested that the Commission should adopt a resolution to that effect, supplementing it by an appeal to the conscience of the world. [51] Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) was happy to see the unanimous favour with which his proposal had been received, and would rely on the . Director-General to add to the text an appeal on the lines he had indicated. [62] Mr. de adopted. Berredo Carneiro’s proposal was The meeting rose at 6 p.m.