BUDGE T-FUNDAMENTAL \ E DUC AT IT ON = COMMITTEE SECOND MEETING Saturday, 30 June 1951, at 3.30 p.m. Chairman: Mr. ANTONIO CASTRO LEAL (Mexico) Special Project for the Establishment of a World Network of Regional Fundamental Education Centres (documents 6C/PRG/3 and Addendum I) and Proposal Presented by the United States Delegation (continuation) (docu- ment 6C/DR/20 and working papers of 29 and
30 June 1951). [1] The CHAIRMAN recalled that information had been received from Mr. Adiseshiah that morning on the possibility of obtaining Technical Assistance funds for the special project, whilst Mr. Elvin had spoken on the budgetary situation in relation to the United States proposal. He called for comments on the information given by the Secretariat. [2] Mr. MAQUET (Belgium) expressed satisfaction at Mr. Adiseshiah’s statement during the previous meeting on the help likely to be given by the Technical Assistance Service. He asked the re- presentative of the Director-General whether he had, since the morning, been able to reach agreement with the United States delegation upon the various points raised. [8] Mr. CHANDIRAMANI (India) stated that his delegation felt that the special project for Funda- mental Education Centres was one of Unesco’s most important activities and deserved wholehearted support. He proposed that the Joint Meeting should recommend the project for the highest possible priority in Unesco’s programme. As the Pakistan delegate had said, it should be borne in mind that certain areas with a very dense population needed, not only a training centre, but a centre for funda- mental education to serve the whole area. [4] Mr. Chandiramani had been glad to hear from Mr. Adiseshiah that it would probably be possible to obtain Technical Assistance funds for the establish- ment of the second centre, but hoped that, far from the project’s being dropped as soon as two or three centres had been established, it would continue until there was a network of such centres throughout the world. The opening of a third centre in 1953 should be given high priority in preparing the programme and budget for that year, and Unesco should consult with Member States desiring to have the centre on their territory as well as with neighbouring States wishing to benefit from it. [5] The CHAIRMAN noted that the United States, in its proposal for financing fundamental education centres in 1952, had mentioned three figures: $178,000 to be assigned from Technical Assistance funds; $40,000 to be contributed by the Organi- zation of American States; and $245,000 to be paid out of Unesco’s regular budget. As the Programme Commission had already approved a sum of $128,000 for the Mexico Centre in 1952, that would leave only $117,000 out of the regular budget for the establish- ment of the second centre. The United States dele- gation had further suggested that the estimates for the central organization in Paris should be reduced - from $110,150 (cf. budget estimates given in docu- ment 6C/PRG/3, page 51) to $90,000. [6] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu- cation) pointed out that the figure of $110,150 for the central organization remained the same for the
12 years. The reduction proposed by the United States delegation had been based on the fact that the central organization would have less inspection and co-ordination work to do in the early stages, when only two centres existed, instead of six. The central organization had, however, a number of other functions, as set forth on page 40 of docu- ment 6C/PRG/3, and Mr. Elvin considered it im- possible to make any further reduction below the figure proposed by the United States without en- dangering the whole project. He pointed out that liaison work with bodies interested in the centres and willing to assist them would be far more arduous in the initial stages of the project than later on. He further drew attention to the fact that the central organization in Paris was also to be a training centre. In the first place, its task would be to guide those who were to form the staff of the regional centres. Later on, it would be primarily concerned with the training of students who had graduated at those centres. [7] Mr. BENDER (Chairman of the Budget Com- mittee) agreed that it would be desirable to spend $90,000 on the central organization, but he wondered whether that was really the minimum necessary for the project to be carried out successfully. [8] With reference to the draft budget on page 50 of document 6C/PRG/3, Mr. GUIGNOLET (Rapporteur      — — — . y
659 BUDGET-FUNDAMENTAL of the Budget Committee) wondered whether expen- diture would not be smaller during the preliminary period. [9] Mr. Guignolet suggested that only one inspector- general should be provided for, since there were only two centres, and that, at the start, adminis- trative and financial control should be exercised by Unesco’s Bureau of the Comptroller, which had been congratulated upon the excellence of its financial administration. [10] Mr. Guignolet shared the view previously ex- pressed that external relations and informations work would not be heavy during the first three years. Finally, he considered that the estimate of $24,500 for allowances and of $12,000 for fees could also be reduced. [11] Mr. Guignolet asked Mr. Adiseshiah to give a categorical reply regarding the funds which the Technical Assistance Service could put at the dispo- sal of the fundamental education centres. If the sum expected were not obtained, the special project for forming a network of regional fundamental edu- cation centres would have to be completely reviewed. [12] Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia), referring to the disparity between the $110,150 proposed by the Secretariat and the $90,000 proposed by the United States delegation, wondered whether regional con- tributions might not be forthcoming for the second centre, as in the case of the Mexico Centre, towards which the Organization of American States was contributing $40,000. He thought that his suggestion might be included in the Committee's report. [13] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) wished to know why it had been decided to set up the central organization in Paris. It seemed to him that, as the existing centre's sphere of activity was entirely in the Western Hemisphere, and as the American States would be contributing $40,000 towards the project, it- would be more practical and economical to entrust adminis- tration and control of the centres to the Regional Office in Cuba. [14] Mr. CAMPBELL (New Zealand) thought that economies could very likely be made on the central organization in the early stages, particularly as he felt that its role as a teaching or training centre was bound to be a very minor one. He agreed with the Rapporteur of the Budget Committee that one inspector-general would be sufficient, at any rate at the beginning. He asked the Secretariat for a breakdown of the figure of $24,500 for Allowances on page 51 of document 6C/PRG/3, and for more details of the training functions of the central organi- zation. [15] Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) feared that EDUCATION COMMITTEE VIHa-2 the funds which had to be found were far larger than any savings which could be made by discuss- ing the technical details of the central organization in Paris. If, however, delegates wished to continue their efforts in that direction, he would support those who had criticized the central organization. He did not believe that it could possibly be a train- ing centre, and asked where the Secretariat would find a man, anywhere in the world, capable of training staff in six different languages to teach in centres in six different parts of the world. [16] Moreover, Mr. Ward saw no need for the two inspectors-general, as he did not think it possible to find two men capable of inspecting six centres situated in various parts of the world, and each working in a different language, or in the case of a centre in Africa, in several different languages. If such men could be found, they would be better employed in running centres than in inspecting them. A better system would be that adopted in the United Kingdom, of engaging inspectors on contract every three years on a fee basis. It was quite unnecessary to have more frequent inspections, which only interrupted the work of the teachers. Unesco should appoint men in whom it had confidence, as directors of the centres and should not disturb them by frequent inspections. In conclusion, he considered the central organization too large for the co- ordination of six centres and too small to be a training centre, and he suggested that the Secre- tariat should be requested to revise the relevant budget estimate. [17] The CHAIRMAN thought that the central or- ganization's functions as a training centre might be postponed for two or three years. [18] Replying to the points raised, Mr. ADI- SESHIAH (Head, Technical Assistance Service) re- minded the meeting that the central organization in Paris should be financed from funds outside the Technical Assistance programme, as the Economic and Social Council and the Technical Assistance Board were strongly against the use of Technical Assistance funds for headquarters expenses and were apt to term all expenditure for work not actually carried out in the field “administrative expenses”. [19] The United States proposal allowed for $23,000 of the Technical Assistance funds to be set aside for the surveys, necessitating travel, to be carried out by the headquarters staff. He hoped it . would beleft to the Secretariat to make the necessary technical adjustments, so that the sum would not appear as an increase in the Secretariat's travel budget. With regard to the question of the avail- ability of $178,000 in 1952, Mr. Adiseshiah could only repeat that the money would in all probability
1 | Ш Il Ш     VIlla-2 BUDGET-FONDA MENT ‎تب be available in 1952, but that it was impossible to say so for certain, as the Technical Assistance pro- gramme depended upon voluntary contributions from Member Governments. There had not been time to submit the special project for approval to the Technical Assistance Board or to the Economic and Social Council, so that it would have to come under the heading of requests which Unesco hoped to receive. Unesco had presented $2,300,000 worth of projects for which contracts had already been signed, and it was hoping to receive a slightly larger percentage of theajotal Technical Assistance funds in 1952, if the programme was continued. In conclusion, the $178,000 would be available in 1952 if the Technical Assistance programme was con- tinued, if Unesco’s expectations of a small increase in its share of Technical Assistance funds ma- terialized, andif requests were received from Member States. [20] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu- cation) explained that the Secretariat was trying to give advice on a matter of relative priority. The United States proposal called for an extra sum of $115,000 out of the regular budget of the Organi- zation, and the question was whether that sum could be reduced by cutting down the expenses of the central organization in Paris, or by making cuts elsewhere. The Cuban delegate had suggested that it would be more economical to have the central organization in the Western Hemisphere, possibly attached to the Havana Office; Mr. Elvin pointed out that it was desirable to have the closest, speediest and most economical link possible between the central organization and Unesco headquarters, and thought that any economy made by having the centre in the Western Hemisphere would be more than offset by the cost of cables and other communications between the centre and Paris. [21] The Indian delegate had suggested that the co-ordination functions of the Paris centre would be less important in the early years; that was true, but, on the other hand, the centre would have far more complex and difficult planning to do in tbe initial stages, so that one would cancel out the other. Mr. Elvin wished to make it quite clear that the central organization was not a luxury, but the central brain of the whole scheme. Its work could not be carried out by the existing Fundamental Education Division in Unesco, in addition to its normal duties. [22] With regard to the suggestion made by the Rapporteur of the Budget Committee that the num- ber of inspectors-general should be reduced from two to one, the Secretariat agreed that the reduction was necessary, in view of the United States proposal for a decrease of $20,000. [23] It had been suggested that administrative and EDUCATION COMMITTEE financial control should be exercised by the Comptroller of Unesco, instead of by a specially appointed financial administrator. Mr. Elvin pointed out that the Comptroller of Unesco had a liaison officer in each Department and Bureau of the Secre- tariat, and that, in document 6C/PRG/3, a modest request was being made for a single financial administrator with an annual salary of $4,910; he considered it impossible to dispense with the post. [24] With regard to the Liberian delegate’s sug- gestion that an appeal should be made for regional contributions, he did not understand whether the idea was that a centre should not be established in a given place unless regional contributions were forthcoming. [25] Mr” MASSAQUOI (Liberia) replied that, in his delegation’s view, regional contributions should be made a condition for the establishment of a centre. [26] Referring to the remarks made by the United Kingdom delegate, Mr. ELVIN (Director, Depart- ment of Education) thought the title “Inspector- General” unfortunate, as it was intended that the inspector-general should take an active part in train- ing and should do much more than mere inspection work. [27] In conclusion, Mr. Elvin believed that it might be possible, without unduly endangering the pro- ject, to make a further reduction of $10,000 on the central organization, thus bringing it down to $80,000, but he stressed the importance of not cutting it any further, and said that he would rather see cuts in other parts of the programme of the Department of Education than a reduction below the absolute minimum necessary for the central organization in Paris. Replying to the delegate of New Zealand, Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) stated that the “allowances” mentioned on page 51 of document
6C/PRG/3 were the equivalent of the “indirect personnel costs” mentioned in the Budget Estimates [document 6C/5 (TT) ]. [28] [29] Referring to the remarks made by the United Kingdom delegate on the subject of the advanced training functions of the central organization, Mr. BOWERS (Head, Fundamental Education Divi- sion) stressed the fact that, in view of the shortage of experts with international experience, it was extremely important, even in the first year, to provide some advanced training for staff in Paris. He very much doubted whether it would be possible to transplant a graduate of the Patzcuaro Centre directly to a centre in the Arab world or in Asia.      Le
661 EO Te ET ST PUNY RA MENTAL A description of the proposed study course was given at the top of page 40 of document 6C/PRG/3. He called the United Kingdom delegate's attention to the fact that, before Englishmen were sent to occupy senior technical and administrative posts in Africa, they generally had to do one year's intensive post-graduate study in the United Kingdom. It was a great pity that the haste to open the Patzcuaro Centre had entailed the appointment of staff without some such preliminary “orientation”. [30] Mr. SHARIF (Pakistan) assuming that a resolution would be placed before the Conference proposing the implementation of the special project for the creation of a world network of regional fundamental education centres, proposed that the resolution should take the following form: [31] (1) The Joint Committee of the Budget Com- mittee and the Working Party on Fundamental Edu- cation accepts in general the principle underlying the special project for the establishment of centres for funda- mental education.
(2) In 1952, the special project should, as suggested by the United States delegation, begin with the con- tinuation of the Latin American Centre, the opening of one new regional centre, and the establishment of a central organization permitting surveys and nego- tiations to be undertaken for the development of future centres under the plan.
(3) The minimum funds necessary for the operation of the special project in 1952 should be secured in the manner proposed by the United States delegation.
(4) The Director-General should be instructed to seek additional funds from all possible sources to supplement this minimum financial provision,
(5) In succeeding years, the programme should be developed with full flexibility, allowing for the possi- bility of establishing fundamental education centres under the special project in as many areas as the funds at the disposal of the project will permit and in response to the need of those areas. The areas to be served by any centre under the plan may be delimited as regions, as groups of countries, or as individual countries, and should be chosen on the basis of the magnitude and urgency of their problems, the readiness of the Government or Governments in the areas to assume their share of the responsibility, and the contribution which such a centre would make to the international work of Unesco for fundamental edu- cation. [32] The motion was seconded by Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) and Mr. MARROU (France). [33] While supporting the proposal, TAHA HUSSEIN Pasha (Egypt) moved the following amendments: mention should be made of the reduction of appropriation for the central organi- zation from $90,000, as proposed by the United States delegation, to $80,000, as suggested by the Secretariat, leaving the total sum to be found out of the regular Budget at $105,000, instead of $115,000. EDUCATION COMMITTEE Secondly, the meeting should recommend that the aforesaid sum should be considered as a first priority. Thirdly, a sentence should be added, re- commending that the Director-General be authorized to enter into negotiations with the Egyptian Govern- ment for the establishment in Egypt in 1952 of a centre similar to the Patzcuaro Centre in Mexico. With regard to the Liberian delegate’s proposal regarding regional contributions, he could not speak for all the Arab countries, but only for the Egyptian Government, which would be willing to contribute a certain sum to enable the centre to be opened in
1952. Egypt supplied 42 per cÉht of the funds of the Cultural Bureau of the Arab League, and it did not seem possible to obtain assistance from that Bureau. [34] Mr. JAUME (France) would support the motion proposed by the Pakistan delegate, on condition that the Committee approved the final trilingual version. [35] At the previous meeting, he had been pleased to hear the United Kingdom delegate say that the project would retain the form which the Executive Board advised—that of a complete whole with no separate sections—even if it had to be financed from emergency funds during the first year. In his opinion that statement constituted a long-term undertaking; it was an act of faith in the project and an act of loyalty towards Unesco. [36] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) referred to the statement by the Director of the Patzcuaro Centre on the defection of certain States which had pro- mised to help establish the centre. He thought it essential to add to the text suggested by the Pakistan delegate that a solemn undertaking should be given by Member States for the whole duration of the project, irrespective of the financial methods—em- pirical or systematized—which might be found to carry it through. [37] Mr. Guignolet said that after a study of practical financial possibilities, the plan had had to leave the land of dreams and descend to reality. It had been considerably whittled down because, at the beginning, it was proposed to retain only one “half-capacity” centre—Patzcuaro—in its existing state, and to establish a second “half-capacity” centre in the hope that such an act of goodwill would attract the benevolence of possible philanthropists. Mr. Guignolet found such an attitude a trifle opti- mistic and thought the moral obligation to prosecute the plan as a whole should rest upon a specific financial obligation on the part of the Organization and of Member States. [38] With regard to financing the Patzcuaro Centre in 1952, Mr. Guignolet said that the Programme Commission had decided that the necessary appro- priations should be a charge on the general Budget, Vilia-2         Vllla-2 FEUD CET FUNDAMENTAL and that only $115,000—perhaps only $105,000 after close screening—was needed to make up the sum of $240,000. The French delegation did not approve the suggestion that the sum in question should be a charge on the general 1952 Budget, for it feared lest such an arrangement would have a harmful effect on normal programme activities. He proposed that a recommendation to the Director- General should be inserted into the motion submitted by the Pakistan delegate, asking him to appeal urgently to Member States to give their practical support, by means of voluntary contributions, to the execution of the project, which had been most favourably received by all the delegations. A very small additional contribution for the purpose could be expected. [39] Mr. BENITEZ (United States of America) was deeply moved by the constructive and hopeful fashion in which all delegates had dealt with such an urgent and difficult problem. The United States delegation had no objection whatsoever to the Pakistan proposal, and indeed endorsed it with enthusiasm, subject to certain minor drafting changes. [40] The CHAIRMAN was glad to announce that the meeting, in approving the Pakistan resolution, had reached the end of its work. He proposed that the report to the General Conference should contain the following seven points:
(1) In approving the special project, the meeting should stress the importance of giving it high priority in Unesco’s work.
(2) The meeting accepted the United States pro- posal that, in 1952, the Patzcuaro Centre should be maintained, that a new regional centre should be opened, and that a central organization should be set up in Paris.
(3) It was recommended that the establishment of a second centre in 1952 should be given first priority and be financed from Technical Assistance funds and from the regular budget of Unesco. Figures would then be given, as already decided by the meeting.
(4) The Director-General should be to seek funds from other sources.
(5) The need for flexibility in the project should be mentioned, as proposed by the delegate of Pakistan.
(6) The meeting accepted the criteria for the selection of regions, composed of one country or a group of countries, as suggested by the Pakistan delegation.
(7) The offer made by the Egyptian delegation should be transmitted to the General Conference. instructed Mr. BENÍTEZ (United States of America)[41] ED RAT TON COMMITTEE agreed with the Chairman’s seven points, except that he was in favour of transmitting the Egyptian offer to the Conference in the body of the meeting's report. In order that the meeting might not appear to be trying to prejudice the issue of the location of the second centre, the Egyptian offer should be transmitted in a separate document. with the United[42] The CHAIRMAN agreed States delegate’s remark. [43] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) agreed with the United States delegate and the Chairman that the Egyptian delegate’s proposal should appear as a separate document. He wished to know whether the Secretariat had received other requests about the location of future centres, but he, like the Chairman, thought that the question lay outside the Committee's competence. [44] Mr. Guignolet asserted that the only point on which the French delegation could not agree with the majority view that emerged during the dis- cussion was with regard to charging the sum of $105,000 to Unesco’s ordinary Budget. In the motion to be presented by the Committee, he would like to see a recommendation on the subject of raising the budget ceiling by $105,000 (or $115,000). He thought that the decision regarding the ceiling figure was probably not irrevocable and that the General Conference might decide to consider a slight additional contribution to cover indispensable 1952 needs, in the light of the Programme Commission's conclusions and the special importance of the pro- ject. That solution would have the advantage of binding Member States to put the plan into effect and of making some of them search their con- sciences. The French delegation wished to point out that it would not hesitate to accept a slight increase in its own contribution to carry the project through. [45] Mrs. PECSON (Philippines) supported the seven points suggested by the Chairman, and seconded the United States proposal that the Egyptian offer should form the subject-matter of a separate document. Without wishing to compete with the Egyptian delegation, she expressed the hope, on behalf of her Government, that the third centre would be established in the Philippines. Her country was eminently suitable to receive a centre because it was a democratic country, inspired by Unesco’s ideals; it had an adult education pro: gramme; it could offer a laboratory and much useful data for a fundamental education centre; it was centrally located in the Far Eastern area; misery and tensions were at their worst in the Far East, which would therefore be an appropriate area in which to test the efficacy of Unesco’s methods. Her country was very eager to have such an
663 BUDGET -FUNDAMENTAL opportunity of serving Unesco and humanity as a whole. [46] Mr. ASSUNGAO DE ARAUJO (Brazil) re- minded the meeting that at one of the earlier plenary meetings of the current General Conference, his delegation had asked for Brazil to be included in the list of countries where it was proposed to found a centre. That request was therefore prior to the one made by the Egyptian delegate. [47] Mr. SHARIF (Pakistan) thanked all delegates who had supported the spirit of his resolution, and said that he was quite prepared to accept drafting changes. [48] TAHA HUSSEIN Pasha (Egypt) welcomed the offers made by the delegates of the Philippines and Brazil. He mentioned the fact that the Egyptian   EDUCATION COMMITTEE УШа-3 offer had been made in the plenary Conference at the same time as the Brazilian offer. He was glad to find so many nations competing to help Unesco, and Egypt would be overjoyed to see centres established in all of them. He had proposed the establishment of a centre in Egypt, because his country had links with both East and West and, although far from rich, was prepared to offer
40,000 Egyptian pounds towards a project which would benefit not only Egypt, but the world as a whole. Г [49] THE CHAIRMAN announced that, at the next meeting, the final text of the report, to be prepared by the Chairman himself and the Rapporteur, with the assistance of the Secretariat, would be presented for approval. The meeting rose at 6.15 p.m. THIRD MEETING Monday, 2 July 1951, at 9.30 a.m. Chairman: Mr. ANTONIO CASTRO LEAL (Mexico) Examination of the Report of the Working Party on the Special Project for the Establish- ment of a World Network of Regional Funda- mental Education Centres. [1] The CHAIRMAN suggested that the meeting should discuss paragraph by paragraph the report of the Working Party on the special project for the establishment of a world network of regional edu- cation centres. PREAMBLE. [2] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education) read the Preamble to the report, as follows: The Working Party, believing Fundamental Education to be at the heart of the work of Unesco, and convinced that the general plan outlined in document 6C/PRG/3 constitutes a first attempt on a world-wide basis to combat through education the problems of ignorance, poverty and disease. Recommends . . . [3] Mr. SENGHOR (France) pointed out that the special fundamental education project described in document 6C/PRG/3 was not the first attempt on a world-wide basis to combat through education the problems of ignorance, poverty and disease, as stated in the third paragraph of the report. Actually, it was perhaps the. first systematic and consistent effort. The French delegate therefore suggested adding the word “systematic” before “attempt on a world-wide basis”. [4] The CHAIRMAN considered such an addition undesirable for psychological reasons. The first three paragraphs of the report prepared the reader for what was to follow; the addition of the word “sys- tematic” would tend to weaken that preliminary statement. [6] Mr. SENGHOR (France) accepted the Chair- man’s opinion and withdrew his amendment. Point 1. [6] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education) read point 1 of the Report as follows: “Recommends that this project be adopted as a whole.” He