CHAPTER XI] CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE FIRST MEETING Monday, 18 June 1951, at 12.15 p.m. Chairman: Mr. Jurius Stone (Australia). Election of Chairman. [1] Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) proposed Mr. Julius STONE (Australia) as Chairman. [2] The motion was seconded by Sir Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India) and Mr. LUCET (France), and unanimously adopted. Examination of Credentials. [3] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) read out a resolution with regard to the recognition by the United Nations of the representation of a Member State, adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations on
14 December 1950. [Resolution 396 (V)] and designed to establish a uniform procedure to be followed whenever more than one authority claimed to be the government entitled to represent a Member State. [4] Mr. Saba went on to explain that there were three countries whose contributions were in arrears (Bolivia, China and Poland). The Argentine Repub- lic had also been considered to be in arrears, but a letter had been received from the Ambassador of that country, stating that a sum exceeding that of the Argentine contribution for 1948 had been placed to the credit of Unesco in a New York bank. There had not yet been time for an advice from the bank to be received. [6] The Committee decided that, pending confir- mation by the bank, the Ambassador's letter should be regarded as having the same effect as advice of payment. [6] Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) proposed that all credentials submitted should be approved, definitely or provisionally, in order permit dele- gates to take their seats at the afternoon meeting of the plenary conference. Those countries whose credentials were opposed would then have the right to take their seats provisionally, in accordance with Rule 24 of the Rules of Procedure. To save time and permit the Conference to proceed normally in the meantime, the discussion of their credentials would be postponed until the following meeting of the Credentials Committee. The question of arrears would also be dealt with at the next meeting. [7] Mr. RIBNIKAR (Yugoslavia) reaffirmed the statement made by his delegation at the previous year’s Conference to the effect that the objection raised to the acceptance of the Chinese delegate’s credentials had been based, not on the fact that China was in arrears with its contributions, but on the fact that the Chinese delegate did not represent the Chinese people. He wished his objection to be mentioned in the Committee’s records. [8] Sir Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India) stated that he fully shared that view. [9] The CHAIRMAN drewattention again to para- graph 3 of the United Nations Resolution 396 (V) stating “that the attitude adopted by the General Assembly . . . should be taken into account . . . in the Specialized Agencies”. [10] Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) said that it was essential that delegations whose credentials were in order should be able to take their places at the afternoon meeting. The discussion of difficult points should be postponed to a later meeting. [11] Mr. SARGEANT (United States of America) supported the observations of the United Kingdom delegate. [12] The CHAIRMAN proposed that the Committee should accept the suggestion of the United Kingdom delegate, that delegates whose credentials had been    XI-2 opposed might nevertheless vote provisionally, in accordance with Rule 24 of the Rules of Procedure. [13] Sir Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India) supported the Chairman’s suggestion, provided that it was clearly stated that the decision was taken in virtue of Rule 24. [14] The proposal was unanimously adopted. [15] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) gave a brief resumé of the Committee's report. It would first give a list of those States whose credentials were in conformity with Rule 22 and who could therefore be admitted to the Conference with full voting rights. That would be followed by a list of States whose credentials were not entirely in order because they did not fulfil the requirements of Rule 22; those States would be admitted to take their seats and to vote provisionally, pending the receipt of their full credentials. SECOND CREDENTIALS   COMMITTEE 746 [16] With regard to China, the report would state that objection had been raised to the credentials of the Chinese delegate, but that Rule 24 of the Con- ference’s Rules of Procedure had been invoked. Rule 24 provided that any delegate to whose admission objection had been raised might provi- sionally be admitted, with the same rights as other representatives, until the Credentials Committee had presented its final report. [17] The SECRETARY read out the list of delega- tions coming under each of the following headings:
(1) Credentials in conformity with Rule 22.
(2) Credentials not in conformity with Rule 22.
(3) Credentials of observers. [18] The list was approved by the Committee. The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m. MEETING Wednesday, 20 June 1951 at 10 a.m. Chairman: Mr. JuLIuS STONE (Australia) Examination of Credentials (continuation). [1] The SECRETARY announced that, since the last meeting of the Committee, the Director-General had received regular credentials for the delegations of Austria, Canada, Mexico, Peru and the Union of South Africa, issued either by the Head of the State or by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of those countries. [2] Consequently, the Committee recommended that those delegations should be admitted to the Conference with full voting rights. Representation of China. [3] The CHAIRMAN said that the Committee had two separate questions to examine concerning China: (a) which authority in China was eligible for re- presentation at the Conference as a Member of Unesco; (b) what action should be taken on the request of the Chinese Government for China to be admitted, with voting rights, despite her arrears in payment of contributions. [4] At the Chairman’s suggestion, the Committee decided to discuss those questions separately, one after the other. [5] Sir Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India) pointed out that the Chinese authorities in Formosa had themselves admitted in their letter (document
6C/9, page 2) that they represented a population of only 7,600,000 persons out of the 470,000,000 in- habitants of China. To allow the Chinese people, who had been closely associated with the work of Unesco ever since the Preparatory Conference, to be represented by the authorities located in Formosa, would therefore be ignoring the facts of the situation. [6] Unesco was not obliged to adhere blindly to the policy and decisions of the United Nations. The fact that Communist China had intervened in Northern Korea was not sufficient reason for Unesco to sever all links with the Chinese people, as was bound to be the result of any decision that China should be represented at Unesco by the Formosa authorities. [7] In conclusion, the representative of India sub- mitted to the Committee a formal proposal to refuse recognition of the Chinese authorities in Formosa as representatives of the Chinese State.   [12] Secr the that оС теас] [13] of tt [14] thou, tion bind; mig}