249 GENERAL Committee) thought that no reply should be given to the Korean delegate until the Committee was able to communicate a firm decision. [79] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) said that a question of substance and a question of procedure were involved. As to the first, he supported Sir John Maud’s proposal, and, as to the second, that of Mr. Mañach, for it appeared undesirable to risk reaching a conclusion, at the next meeting, which might contradict a reply already given to the South Korean delegate. [80] Mr. MONTEL (France) thought that, in view of the political implications which the Committee’s decision might have, it would be preferable to consult the delegations and not to reply to the Korean delegate until a final decision had been taken. [81] Mr. STONE (Chairman of the Credentials Committee) called for an immediate decision, because postponement would carry with it the disadvantages to which the United Kingdom delegate had referred. [82] Mr. Stone supported the view expressed by the Chairman. Unesco participated, together with the United Nations and other organizations, in pro- grammes for collective security, and so some form of commemoration would be required. He wished to associate himself with the suggestion of the United Kingdom delegate. [83] Mr. SIASSI (Iran) said that the Korean dele- gate could not take exception to not having an immediate reply, since the item was not on the COMMITTEE 111-4 agenda of the current meeting. Mr. Siassi supported Mr. Montel’s proposal for holding over a decision till the next meeting. [84] In reply to Sir John MAUD (United King- dom), the CHAIRMAN said that the French motion, seconded by Iran, was “that the General Committee resolves to take no decision at this meeting on the response to be made to the request of the delegate of Korea to address the General Conference’; the decision to be made on 25 June 1951. [85] The motion was adopted by 7 votes to 4, with 2 abstentions. [86] Mr. STONE (Chairman of the Credentials Committee) proposed that the President of the Con- ference should be invited to stress the collective security aspect of the anniversary and to call upon the General Conference to observe one minute's silence. [87] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom), seconding the motion, pointed out that its adoption at the current meeting would give the Korean delegate an opportunity to withdraw his request to address the General Conference. If he did so, the meeting would not be faced on 25 June with the dangerous decision to which the Chairman had referred. [88] Mr. Stone’s motion was put to the vote and adopted by 8 votes to 0, with 3 abstentions. The meeting rose at 12.15 p.m. FOURTH MEETING Monday, 25 June 1951, at 9.30 a.m. Chairman: Mr. HOowLAND SARGEANT (United States of America) Commemoration of the First Anniversary of the Outbreak of War in Korea. [1] In reply to Sir Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India), the CHAIRMAN recalled that at its third meeting the General Committee had decided:
(1) To postpone until the fourth meeting a decision whether or not to accede to the Korean delegate’s request to speak on the occasion of the anniversary; and
(2) That the President of the Conference should make a brief speech recalling the principles for which the war was being fought, that address to be followed by one minute’s silence. [2] Sir S. RADHAKRISHNAN (India) agreed that the form of commemoration indicated would be the best. He would propose that permission should not be given to the Korean delegate to address the Con- ference, owing to the danger of his making bellicose
1114 GENERAL statements likely to give rise to undesirable dis- cussion. [3] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) reminded the Committee that, in adopting the Chairman’s proposal, it would simply be follow- ing a precedent created by the Executive Board at the beginning of the Korean campaign, when the Board had paid a similar tribute to the United Nations forces in Korea. He agreed with the dele- gate of India that the Korean delegate should leave the matter to the discretion of the President of the Conference, who would see that the ceremony was conducted with becomingsolemnity. [4] By a unanimous vote, save for one abstention (Egypt), the General Committee adopted the pro- posal of Sir Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, seconded by the Chairman of the Executive Board. [6] The CHAIRMAN undertook to Korean delegate of the decision. inform the [6] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL thought that the Committee had taken a very wise decision, but he pointed out that the head of the Korean delegation might perhaps ask to speak, in order to express his gratitude to the Conference. Personally, he hoped that no debate would follow the commemoration of the first anniversary of outbreak of war in Korea. However, the Committee would have to allow the head of the Korean delegation to thank the General Conference, if he expressed a desire to do so after his conversation with the President. [7] Mr. MONTEL (France) shared the Director- General's opinion. He suggested that, as the matter was a delicate one, the Korean delegation should be requested to submit any statement it wished to make to the Secretariat. : [8] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL did not think that the Secretariat could presume to give advice on that point to the Korean delegation, and he would prefer the President to inform the head of the Korean dele- gation of the Committee's decision, explaining that it had been taken in the hope of avoiding any debate after the ceremony. [9] The CHAIRMAN assured Sir Sarvepalli Radha- krishnan of his intention to explain the General Committee's decision to the Korean delegate and to endeavour to persuade him that the form of com- memoration approved was the most fitting and impressive. [10] The Committee decided that, if the Korean delegate so desired, he should be allowed to make a formal acknowledgement in terms giving rise to no discussion.   COMIMIAIST TEE 250 Report of the Chairman of the Administrative Commission (document 6C/ADM/17) and Organi- zation of the Plenary Meeting to be Held that Day (25 June). Discussion of the Budget. [11] Mr. van der STRATEN-WAILLET (Chair- man of the Administrative Commission) presented the Administrative Commission’s preliminary report. He observed that there was no meeting of the Com- mission scheduled for that day, but that a working party had been appointed, which was to consider certain items in detail. The Administrative Com- mission planned to hold its fifth meeting on the following Tuesday morning. [12] Speaking for all the Members of the General Committee, the CHAIRMAN congratulated Mr. van der Straten-Waillet (Chairman of the Adminis- trative Commission) and all members of the Com- mission on the excellent progress which had permitted the circulation of the preliminary report (document 6C/ADM/17) in time for the eleventh plenary meeting of the General Conference. [13] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL joined with the Chairman in congratulating the Commission. As the Administrative Commission’s report contained important suggestions regarding methods of finan- cing the 1952 Budget, he proposed to say only a few words in introducing the discussion on the budget, waiting until the Conference had studied the reports of the Budget Committee and the Administrative Commission to make a fuller statement. He hoped, thus, to clarify the debate. [14] The CHAIRMAN considered General's suggestion judicious. the Director- [15] The Committee agreed to adopt the procedure suggested by the Director-General. Meeting of the Headquarters Commission to Consider the Facilities Offered by the French Government in Connexion with the Building of Permanent Headquarters for the Organi- zation. [16] The CHAIRMAN said that, in fixing a time for a meeting of the Headquarters Commission, the Committee should remember that it was composed of representatives of Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Egypt, France, the United Kingdom and the United States of America, as decided by the General Confer- ence at its Fourth Session. The Commission was to report to the Administrative Commission of the General Conference. If the afternoon of 26 June 1951 was acceptable, we would suggest holding the meeting at 3.30 p.m.      и и — . ‏ ج ح
251 СЕМЕН Ат, [17] Mr. SEYDOUX (France) said that the French delegation wished to know what sort of debate was to take place at the following day's meeting. If certain items were to be considered in detail, the French delegation would want to ensure that experts from the Ministries of Finance and Reconstruction were present. It would prefer such a meeting to be postponed until later. [18] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) reminded the Committee that no time had yet been arranged for the Executive Board’s last meeting. In the interests of the General Conference, that meeting should not be delayed. [19] In reply to Mr. SEYDOUX (France), the CHAIRMAN said that he had understood that the Headquarters Commission was to be given precise information on the loan offered by France and the site proposed for the building. As the French delegate had asked for more time, he suggested
3.30 p.m. on 27 June, and asked whether a meeting at that time would interfere with the work of the Executive Board. [20] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) thought that the Board might meet on Tuesday, 26 June. [21] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL recalled what an important part the Executive Board had played at the Florence Session of the Conference in studying new proposals. He did not think that the Board could meet at the same time as the Programme Commission and suggested, therefore, that it should be convened on Tuesday and Wednesday mornings at 9 p.m. before the meetings of the Programme Commission. [22] As it would be unnecessary for the General Committee to meet on the morning of 26 June 1951, it was agreed that the Executive Board should meet at 9 a.m. on that day. [23] The CHAIRMAN thought it undesirable for the Programme Commission to meet until the end of the discussion on the budget in plenary meeting. It should be possible for the Commission to meet on the morning of 26 June. [24] Mr. SAGLAM (Chairman of the Procedure Committee) said that the Procedure Committee planned to meet on that Tuesday morning. [25] The CHATRMAN drew attention to the danger of overlapping. Many of the same people would be involved in the two meetings. [26] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL drew attention to the importance of the problem of biennial sessions, COMMITTEE 111-4 which was on the Procedure Committee's agenda; he hoped that the largest possible number of dele- gations would attend the debate on that subject. Even if the General Conference did not adopt the budget total at the end of the day's discussions, there would stil] be no objection to a meeting of the Procedure Committee on the Tuesday morning; on the other hand,it would be better for the Programme Commission to meet on the Tuesday afternoon. [27] Mr. PIAGET (Chairman of the Programme Commission) agreed with the Director-General, but wondered if the Procedure Committee could not meet that same afternoon, 25 June. [28] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained that the Procedure Committee could not meet while the plenary meeting of the General Conference was dis- cussing the budget ceiling. [29] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) suggested that the Director-General’s advice should be followed. Good progress had been made in the Procedure Committee and the question of biennial sessions would have to be settled before real pro- gress could be made in other bodies. He was con- vinced that no useful discussion of the biennial question could be held at the same time as a plenary meeting discussing the budget ceiling. He therefore suggested that the plenary meeting should first conclude discussion of the budget ceiling. Then meetings of the Procedure Committee and the Pro- gramme Commission should follow, in that order. [30] Replying to Mr. van der STRATEN- WAILLET (Chairman of the Administrative Com- mission), the CHAIRMAN said that it would be materially possible for that Commission to hold the two meetings scheduled for 26 June. [31] The Committee then decided that the Proce- dure Committee should meet on the morning of
26 June and the Programme Commission on the afternoon of the same day. [32] Recalling that the Chairman of the Executive Board would present his comments on the draft budget during the debate in plenary meeting, the DIRECTOR-GENERAL proposed that the discussion of the budget should take place in the following stages: (1) brief presentation of the budget docu- ments by the Director-General; (2) comments by the Chairman of the Executive Board on the draft budget; (3) report of the Budget Committee;
(4) report of the Administrative Commission;
(5) general statement by the Director-General on the 1952 Budget. [33] Agreed. The meeting rose at 10.30 a.m.