PROCEDURE741 Voted against: Cuba, Egypt, France, United King- dom, United States of America. Abstained: Thailand. Absent: Afghanistan, Argentina, Austria, Belgium, Bolivia, Burma, Ceylon, Costa-Rica, Czechoslovakia, Dominican Republic, Greece, Guatemala, Haiti, Hashemite Jordan, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Italy, Korea, Lebanon, Monaco, Nether- lands, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Salvador, Saudi Arabia, Syria, Uruguay, Viet-Nam, Yugoslavia. [48] The proposal to delete item 5 of section 1 of the report was adopted by 19 votes to 5, with 1 ab- stention and 36 absent. [49] Mr. CATES (United States of America) stated that, as regarded the vote just taken, he would have been happy to vote for the compromise reached by the Working Party, but was prepared to accept the Committee's decision. COMMITTEE X-13 [60] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) observed that, as a result of the vote just taken, the fourth paragraph of the first draft resolution presented by the Working Party (document 6C/PRO/12, page 5) should be deleted. [61] Mr. Saba then read out the revised text of the resolutions previously adopted by the Committee on the subject of biennial sessions. [62] The CHAIRMAN stated that the text which Mr. Saba had read would be submitted to the Com- mittee at its next meeting, when it considered its report to the General Conference. [63] The whole of the Working Party’s report, as amended, was put to the vote and adopted, subject to final drafting, by 21 votes to 1. The meeting rose at 5.50 p.m. THIRTEENTH MEETING Tuesday, 10 July 1951, at 3.30 p.m. Chairman: Mr. Tevrik SAGLAM (Turkey) Discussion of the Committee's Report to the General Conference (document 6C/PRO/14). [1] The CHAIRMAN recalled that the Committee had adopted the report of the Working Party, with the exception of one point which had been deferred for later consideration, but which was included in the Procedure Committee’s report, so that it would not be necessary to study it separately. He proposed that the report should be discussed, paragraph by paragraph. [2] Agreed. [3] The introduction was approved without com- ment. [4] Sections I, IT and III were approved without comment. [6] Referring to section IV (rules for the conduct of elections by secret ballot), the SECRETARY ex- plained that the draft rules would be annexed to the report. [6] Section IV was approved without discussion. [7] With regard to section V, Mr. SABA (Lega Adviser) read out the resolution concerning recom- mendations and international conventions, stating that it would be attached as an Addendum to the Committee’s report. [8] Mr. EUSTATHIADES (Greece), seconded by Mr. WARD (United Kingdom), moved the adoption of the resolution, which was approved, together with section V of the report. [9] Passing on to section VI, Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) pointed out that the introductory clauses, proposed by the United States delegation and adopted by the Committee, had been omitted by mistake from the report. He read out the clauses in question, which would be issued in a corrigendum and would take their place at the beginning of the draft resolu- tion. [10] Mr. Saba proposed, at the suggestion of Mr. WARD (United Kingdom), to replace the words “voix consultative” in the French version of para-      X-13 PROCEDURE graph (a) (i) of the decisions by the words “sans droit de vote”, which would be a closer translation of the English and would be more in keeping with the following paragraph referring to the limitation on voting. Mr. Saba also suggested that paragraph (a) (ii) should be extended, as proposed by Mr. Stone (Australia), making it clear that Associate Members had a right to participate in the deliberations of the General Conference and “of such of its Committees, Commissions and other subsidiary bodies as the General Conference may decide . . .” [11] Section VI was adopted with the amendments proposed by Mr. Saba. [12] Section VII was approved without comment. [13] Referring to section VIII, Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) recalled that, when the Procedure Com- mittee had considered the Executive Board’s paper regarding the number and election of Officers of the General Conference, the Director-General had ге- quested that Rule 22 of the Rules of Procedure should be slightly amended. As it stood, Rule 22 made it compulsory for the credentials of delegates and alternates to the General Conference to be pre- sented one week in advance; yet it seemed more appropriate to leave it to the discretion of Member States to submit their credentials when they felt it most convenient. There should, therefore, be no fixed date for the submission of credentials, but only for that of names of delegates. It would thus simply be necessary to amend the text of Rule 22 (in the middle of page 7) by dividing it into two sentences: the first reading; “These credentials shall be com- municated to the Director-General” and the second: “The names of the head of the delegation, delegates and alternate delegates shall be communicated to the Director-General one week before the date of opening of the session.” [14] Mr. EUSTATHIADES (Greece) thought it necessary for a date to be fixed for the submission of names of delegates. in order that the Executive Board might be able to draw uplists for considera- tion by the Nominations Committee. He considered, on the other hand, that the reference to credentials might be deleted altogether, leaving only the second part of the sentence, subject to the understanding that the phrase should not denote an irrevocable decision on the membership of each delegation at the beginning of the Conference, or even during the session. [15] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) pointed out that it was not a question of a new Rule of Procedure, but only of a paragraph to be added to Rule 22, concern- ing credentials; it therefore seemed impossible not to mention credentials at all. He suggested that the original Rule 22 should be followed by the first part       COMMITTEE 749 of the sentence relating to the presentation of cre- dentials, and that the rest of the sentence contained in the report should be incorporated in a separate paragraph. [16] In order to meet Mr. Eustathiades” point re- garding the freedom of States to present their cre- dentials when they wished, Mr. Saba suggested that it should be mentioned in the Committee’s report that it was proposed to fix a time-limit for the sub- mission of names of delegates only in order to facilitate the work of the General Conference, and that such a clause did not in any way restrict the right of States to change the membership of their delegations or to present their credentials whenever they considered it appropriate.   [17] Section VIII was approved, with the amend- ments proposed by Unesco’s Legal Adviser, on behalf of the Director-General. [18] Sections IX, X and XI were approved. [19] With regard to section XII, Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) pointed out that it had seemed desirable to link the preliminary decisions taken by the Procedure Committee on 29 June, before the final adoption of the principle of biennial sessions of the Conference, with the resolution instructing the Director-General to present draft amendments to the Constitution and the various regulations, in order to bring about the changes made necessary by an alteration of the inter- vals between sessions of the General Conference. Mr. Saba stressed the fact that only slight drafting changes had been made in the decisions taken on
29 June and that their essence was faithfully repro- duced in the new wording of the report. g a r e T N T T T A m —   ® — — И т I N ب ن ج ن ج ‎ : i = . = К d e [20] Mr. BOERLIN (Switzerland) observed that it [25] had been understood that the structure of the Ex- | obje ecutive Board would in no circumstances be changed, % gray but that its functions might have to be altered and | did : adapted to the new system. used “pri [21] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) recalled that it had the‘ indeed been decided not to give the Director-General [ para any instructions regarding a possible change in the the structure of the Executive Board, but that it had | grap nevertheless been understood that the General Con- mov ference would later have an opportunity to reconsider | taine the matter and decide whether any changes were port necessary, even including a change in the structure with of the Executive Board. Mr. Saba pointed out that Eigh it would not be possible to tell whether any such modification was called for until some experience | [26] of ihe biennial system had been acquired. | fy imp [22] Mr. BOERLIN (Switzerland) thought that a the ( great many delegations had agreed to the principle | prod of biennial sessions only on the express condition that | it should not entail a modification of the existing | [27] | E       PROCEDURE743 structure of the Executive Board. In his opinion, it would jeopardize the Organization’s independence if States were given the right to select members of the Executive Board. [23] Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) drew attention to discrepancies in the text of the report. He noted, in particular, that on page 13 the document stated that “the Working Party unanimously adopted the following conclusions”, whereas the conclusions were not given in the form in which the Working Party had approved them. He further noted that the item 5 given in the document was not the item 5 suggested by the French delegation. For those rea- sons, Mr. Ward found difficulty in approving the report as it stood, and suggested that the Committee should not attempt to reproduce the text of the Work- ing Party’s report, but should give a general state- ment to the effect that it had received a report from the Working Party and, after making a number of amendments, had reached certain conclusions. [24] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) realized that the comments of the United Kingdom delegate were justified. The Secretariat had been pressed for time and had therefore simply reproduced the Working Party's report. In order to meet the points made by Mr. Ward, he proposed the deletion of the quotation in the first, second and third paragraphs of the sec- tion concerning the Working Party’s report on the implementation of biennial sessions (page 13); the heading, “1. Annual or biennial programmes and budgets”, should be maintained and followed directly by sub-paragraphs 1 to 6. All references to the Working Party between pages 13 and 16 would also be deleted. : [25] Mr. de LACHARRIERE (France) had some objections to make to the wording of the four para- graphs in Resolution 1 on page 16 of the report. He did not understand why the word “system” had been used, considering that the decision had been on the “principle” of biennial sessions. He would prefer the word “nevertheless” to be deleted from the third paragraph and placed after the word “Considers” in the second paragraph, and the order of the two para- graphs to be reversed. In the last paragraph, be moved that the original decision should be main- tained, namely, that the Director-General should re- port to a later session of the General Conference, without explicitly stating that he should report to the Eighth Session. [26] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) stated emphatically that the Secretariat had not intended to change the implications of the decisions taken on 29 June; if the Committee wished, those decisions could be re- produced exactly as they then stood. [27] Mr. BOERLIN (Switzerland) thought that the COMMITTEE X-13 remarks of the French delegate were justified, but that it would be better to keep the wording of the decisions originally adopted. [28] Mr. EUSTATHIADES (Greece) shared that opinion. [29] Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) asked whether the French amendments were matters of drafting only. If so, he would support them. [30] Mr. TOSCANO (Italy) proposed that wherever the report did not change the substance of the deci- sions of 29 June, but only reproduced them in dif- ferent words, it should be left as it was. At so late a stage in the Committee's work, it would be undesir- able to propose changes of substance which might give rise to long discussions. [31] Referring to section 3 on page 14 of the report, Mr. Toscano drew attention to an expression which he considered inaccurate, namely, the “legislative” function of the General Conference; the only legisla- tive function seemed to him to be that relating to the contributions of Member States, and the term was therefore not appropriate in the place he had men- tioned. [32] In order to avoid raising any legal problem, Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) proposed the substitution of the word “normative” for “legislative”. [33] Mr. TOSCANO (Italy) expressed agreement. [Зе] Made LACHARRIERE (France) explained that the changes proposed by the French delegation did not affect the substance of the decisions taken on 29 June; their sole purpose was to assist the Secretariat in its efforts to produce a comprehensive document. He suggested that a new form of word- ing might be worked out by the representative of the Secretariat, with the help of the French delegation. With regard to the second paragraph of the resolu- tion on page 16, he was in favour of the wording in the report, which brought out mere clearly than the earlier text had done that it was intended to maintain the non-governmental status of members of the Executive Board. [35] Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) said that, for his part, he would be prepared to leave the prepara- tion of the final text to the Secretariat, in collabora- tion with the French delegation, on the understand- ing that the amendments to be incorporated were not amendments of substance. [86] Mr. CATES (United States of America) said that his delegation would have been prepared to approve the report as submitted in document 6C/ PRO/14. He would therefore, appeal to the French delegation and the Secretariat to make as few changes    X-13 PROCEDURE of wording as possible. The final text should state clearly that the principle of biennial sessions had been approved; that certain delegations wished to see changes in the structure of the Executive Board, while others did not, and that the Committee had agreed that the matter should be investigated and a report submitted to a forthcoming session of the General Conference (even, perhaps, to the Seventh Session). If the final document did not state those points clearly, much confusion and misunderstanding might arise in the plenary meeting, and it might even be necessary to reject the report at the last minute. [37] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) proposed that the delegates of France, the United States of America and the United Kingdom should meet together to prepare a final version, in both languages, of sec- tion XII of the report. [38] The suggestion was seconded by Mr. LUCET (France). [39] Mr. TOSCANO (Italy) pointed out that the small group should not be considered as a working party and should confine itself to drafting questions only. The statement made by the United States dele- gate had left him with the impression that certain points affecting the substance of decisions might be changed, and he wanted to make quite certain that that would not happen. [40] Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) appreciated the delicacy of the task which the meeting was deciding to entrust to the Secretariat. The latter would have to prepare a final text in three languages, on a matter which had revealed strong differences of opinion within the Conference, from a text which had been distributed during the meeting in progress: the final text was to be submitted to the General Conference in plenary meeting without further discussion by the Procedure Committee. He shared the misgivings of the United States delegate on the general advisability of such procedure, but considered that, in the circumstances, it was justified. He was persuaded that the French delegation and the Secretariat would exercise the greatest care in prepar- ing a document which was exactly parallel in the three languages, and that the plenary meeting of the General Conference would be presented with a document which it could approve unanimously with- out discussion. COMMITTEE T44 [41] Mr. CATES (United States of America) noted that the original proposal put forward by the Work- ing Party (document 6C/PRO/12, page 2, item 4) had been amended at the suggestion of the United Kingdom delegation to allow greater latitude to the Director-General and the Executive Board. It had been brought to his notice that the Budget Com- mittee had recommended that the actual sums for each project should be indicated in the work plans. The Committee should therefore decide whether paragraph 1.4a should be forwarded in its original form (as in document 6C/PRO/12), whether it should be deleted, or whether the Committee pre- ferred to await events. Mr. Cates thought that it might be necessary to draw the attention of the General Conference to the posiblity of inconsistency at some point in its proceedings. [42] Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) considered that inconsistencies of that kind could not be avoided at the Committee stage; it was for the General Con- ference to reconcile the two recommendations. He would therefore suggest that the paragraph should be retained in substance as it appeared in document
6C/PRO/14. [43] Agreed. [44] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) thought it would be undesirable, at a time when the Committee no longer had time to discuss the matter thoroughly, to consider a modification affecting the substance of decisions already taken. He suggested that the Budget Committee should be asked to instruct its Rapporteur to make certain technical recommenda- tions when the Procedure Committee’s report was considered at a plenary meeting of the Conference. [45] Agreed. [46] The whole of the report was approved. [47] Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) moved a vete of thanks to the Chairman, the other Officers of the Committee and the members of the Secretariat. [48] The CHAIRMAN thanked the meeting, on be- half of the officers of the Committee, and expressed his own appreciation of the way in which all had co- operated to assist him in the discharge of his duties. The meeling rose at 6 p.m.   Exe [3] with of tl the
14 desi; follo to be State [4] three (Boli lic h letter that the À to th had : to be [5] matic be re paym [6] that defin: gates of th