X-8 PROCEDURE EIGHTH MEETING Wednesday, 27 June 1951, at 10.30 a.m. Chairman: Mr. Tevrix SAGLAM (Turkey), later: Mr. ZúREGA FomBONA (Venezuela) Request Presented by the Chinese Delegation with a View to Obtaining the Right to Vote at the Current Session. [1] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) called the attention of the Committee to the request presented by the Minister of Education of the Chinese Republic in his letter of 18 May 1951 (document 6C/9), in which, referring to the exceptional circumstances which had preventer his Government from paying its contribu- tions to Unesco, he asked the General Conference to authorize China to vote, in application of Article TV C 8(c) of the Constitution, in view of the fact that her failure to pay was due to conditions beyondthe control of the MemberState concerned. [2] Replying to a question from Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece), Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) said- that the Board had come to the unanimous conclusion that to accept, as a token payment, the $15,000 offered by China would create a dangerous precedent. The Board had, however, decided by a large majority to refer the Chinese Government's application to the Procedure Com- mittee, recommending that it should be given favour- able consideration. [3] Mr. CHENG (China) admitted that his country was two full years in arrears with the payment of contributions. In his view, however, the circum- stances leading to that default—military occupation of the mainland by forces under foreign inspiration, total loss of revenue and resources—should be con- sidered as outside the control of his Government. The whole burden of administration was now borne by the 7,600,000 inhabitants of Formosa, and ex- penditure had been reduced to the minimum. The “ Chinese people had demonstrated their willingness to continue as active members of Unesco by the payment of the equivalent of $5,000 both the pre- vious and the current year. His Government certainly represented the Chinese people culturally, and it would be wrong to allow the military occupa- tion of the mainland to change its status as a Member of Unesco. Paragraph 8(c) of Article IV C of the Constitution made provision for the case of Member States in difficulty and China undoubtedly came under that heading.
00 716 [4] Mr. SEBASTIAN (Philippines) supported the Chinese delegation’s request to be allowed the right to vote. He had no doubt that Article IV C 8(c) applied to Member States in the position of China, and that the circumstances leading to non-payment were genuinely beyond the Chinese Government's control. It was encouraging that a Memberso placed - had offered to make payments of $15,000. [5] Mr. Sebastián therefore presented the follow- ing motion: The General Conference approves the application pre- sented by the Chinese delegation to vote at the present session of the General Conference. [6] Mr. TREJOS DITTEL (Costa Rica) expressed his approval of the Philippine resolution, saying that the important point was not the number of people represented, but the cultural contribution of a delegation. [7] Mr. MILTON (Liberia) said that, as the Govern- ment of Communist China had already been excluded from membership of Unesco, it would be improper to refuse the existing Chinese delegation the right to vote and so deprive the Chinese people of all op- portunity to take part in Unesco's activities. [8] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) presented the following resolution: This Committee recommends, that, in accordance with Article IV C 8(b), the General Conference should not permit the Chinese delegation to vote at the present ses- sion of the General Conference. [9] Sir John wished to make it clear that his re- solution had nothing to do with his delegation's attitude to Chinese representation. The essential point was to decide whether the Committee should recommend a derogation from the general principle laid.down in Article IV C 8(b) of the Constitution. It had been decided that voting was a privilege and that the payment of annual contributions in full was an obligation. No Member State should be enabled to exercise the privilege of voting unless it had discharged its obligations with regard to contributions. It was not disputed either that China was seriously in arrears or that Unesco had been seriously embarrassed by the fact that contributions   O E R u l a r a N N pa s = ‎مهلا — o o n — p i m г л о — — К о о о о e n — e — s x о к O V ‎بسلا * k d e P e E a s d ” a l A r a A O S a A —   Р Р ) dd , N T ‎مل
1 Tt PROCEDURE had been allowed to lapse. Article IV C 8(b) had been designed to avoid that sort of embarrassment; it was essential to apply the general rule unless it were impossible not to make an exception. Para- graph 8(c) allowed the General Conference to em- power a Member State to vote if the arrears of pay- ment were due to conditions beyond its control. Much as he sympathized with the Chinese delegation, Sir John felt, both on constitutional grounds and because it was important that Unesco should be seen to be conducting its finances in a sensible manner, that in existing circumstances the Committee would not be justified in recommending that an exception should be made. [10] Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil), while recognizing the importance attaching to the finan- cial obligations of Member States, pointed out that the Unesco Constitution had been drawn up in such a way as to ensure, by means or paragraph 8c., the necessary elasticity in the rules laid down in Article IV. It was essential that a State such as China, which represented a quarter of the world’s population, should be present in Unesco, even if unfortunate circumstances, for which it did not appear to be responsible, prevented it from fulfilling its financial obligations. For that reason, the Brazilian delegation would support the Philippine proposal, which should not create a precedent, since it was to be hoped that a situation so tragic as that in which China was at the moment placed would not arise again. [11] Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) also felt that the Chinese Government's grave difficulties should be taken into consideration, with a view to applying the provisions of Article IV C 8(c) to its case, as recommended by the majority of the members of the Executive Board. [12] Mr. SASSEN (Netherlands) supported the Philippine resolution, but added that it was desirable to accept the Executive Board’s recommendation that the token payment of $15,000 offered by the Chinese Government should be refused. [13] Mr. CATES (United States of America) con- sidered that the basic question was whether para- graph 8c. could be invoked. The Committee had to decide whether there were conditions beyond the Chinese Government's control and whether failure to pay was due to those conditions. In his view, both those requirements had been satisfied. While the token payment offered was not a discharge of obligations, it did show good intentions. Mr. Cates would therefore support the Philippine resolution. [14] Mr. STONE that his(Australia) stated COMMITTEE X-8 Government took the attitude that any consideration of the Chinese application should be free from discrimination either for or against the Chinese Government. He therefore supported the Philippine resolution on grounds similar to those put forward by the United States delegate. He considered, how- ever, that the acceptance of token payments was dangerous, as it might leave the door open to a relaxation of diligence in the fulfilment of obli- gations. [15] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) said that, under the rules in force, any payment made by a Member State was automatically allocated to the Working Capital Fund,if its deposit thereto was not complete, and any balance remaining thereafter was set against its arrears. Thus, unless the General Confer- ence officially decided otherwise, China’s payment’s would represent only a partial discharge of her pre- vious obligations, and would in no way affect the assessment of her previous, current or subsequent contributions. [16] Mr. KHUSHWANT SINGH (India) considered that the Philippine resolution represented a very dangerous precedent; if it were adopted, the budget was likely to become the victim of political sym- pathies. In international lawit was dubious whether incapacity to administer a country during a period of civil strife could be considered as “circumstances beyond the control” of the government. He would therefore second the United Kingdom delegation’s resolution. [17] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) wished to rectify his previous statement by explaining that, though the discussion in the Board had shown that the majority of members present were favourably inclined towards China’s request, the Board had nevertheless decided, as indicated in document 6C/9, simply to refer that communication to the General Conference, without any recommen- dation whatever. [18] Mr. BLANCO (Cuba) agreed with the Chinese delegation’s request and with the Philippine dele- gation’s resolution. China’s situation, in his view, placed her among those Member States which, under Article IV C 8(c) of the Constitution, might be autho- rized to vote if the General Conference were satisfied that the failure to pay was due to conditions beyond their control. [19] Referring to the financial arguments put for- ward by the United Kingdom delegate, Mr. Blanco added that if, during the past two years, China’s financial contribution had not been indispensable to Unesco, there could be little doubt that the Or- ganization could equally continue its work in the   X-8 PROCEDURE future without that contribution. Moreover, if the Chinese delegation were denied the right to vote, the Organization would lose the $15,000 per annum offered by China as a token contribution, and the financial argument invoked by the United Kingdom delegate would turn against him. [20] The representative of Cuba concluded by ex- pressing the hope that the Committee would decide in favour of China's application, since that would be to the advantage of Unesco's work. [21] Mr. de LACHARRIERE (France) said that his delegation would confine itself strictly to procedural and financial considerations. From the financial point of view it did not appear that there would be any danger in approving China’s application, as the Organization's budget had been drawn up without allowing for China's normal contributions among the receipts. Furthermore, while it was true that the payment of contributions was an obligation binding on every Member State, voting was not, as had been asserted, a privilege, but a right. The Constitution laid down a penalty to be imposed on States which did not pay their contributions but in the same Article, it provided for exceptions in the event of unavoidable circumstances, and it was difficult to imagine what circumstances the framers of the Constitution could have had in mind, if they were not thinking of exceptional situations such as that in which China was at the moment placed. [22] The French delegation would accordingly support the considerable number of delegations which wished to approve China’s application and to accept the sum offered by the Chinese Government, which should be allocated in accordance with the existing rules. [23] Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon), remarking that it was a particularly delicate question, submitted an amendment to the effect that Unesco would base its attitude with regard to China’s contribution on that adopted by the United Nations. [24] Mr. COSTA DU RELS (Bolivia), expressing his agreement with the arguments already advanced, supported the Philippine delegation’s proposal that China should be allowed to vote, and hoped that the rather large sums outstanding against certain Member States by way of overdue contributions would be reduced to a more realistic level. [25] Mr. SHARIF (Pakistan) explained the position of his Government. He pointed out that the Pakistan Government had recognized the Central People’s Government as the Government of China and was anxious that that Government should be associated in all the organs of the United Nations. His dele- gation was particularly anxious that the Chinese COMMITTEE 718: People's Government, representing the vast millions of China, should participate in the activities of Unesco. In the earlier discussions on the question of Chinese representation, the delegation of Pakistan had not supported the move for the unseating of the existing representatives on the sole ground that the question of China's representation was under examination by the United Nations. On the question whether or not the existing representatives should be allowed the right to vote, his delegation would abstain from voting. [26] Mr. STONE (Australia) was prepared to support the Philippine resolution, amended by the addition of the words it being clearly understood that the payment made by China and referred to in the letter from the Chinese Government dated 18 May 1951 was in part-payment of contributions still due from China. The intention of his amendment was to incorporate in the recommendation to the General Conference an indication of the concensus of opinion both in the Executive Board and among many of the dele- gations taking part in the current meeting. [27] Mr. MASON (New Zealand) considered that the fundamental question was whether conditions in China were such as to prevent the Chinese Govern- ment from making a larger payment than that which it had already made. That was a purely financial question which could be solved only by the United Nations. Purely as an interim measure, Mr. Mason would be in favour of granting voting rights to China. [28] Mr. TREJOS DITTEL (Costa Rica) suggested that a change should be made in the wording of the Philippine resolution, by deleting “. . . approves the application presented by the Chinese delegation . .” and substituting resolves to agree to the request presented by the Chinese delegation . . .” Mr. Zérega Fombona (Venezuela), Vice-Chair-[29] man, took the Chair. [30] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) said that non-payment for any reason was a great embarrass- ment to Unesco and should be avoided in future. While he agreed with the French delegation that to vote was to exercise a right, the Constitution pro- vided only one sanction for default, the loss of that right. Unless the Committee deliberately invoked the exceptional circumstances provided for under paragraph 8c., a Member State in arrears beyond a certain amount was automatically deprived of the vote. In his view, the sort of exception which the framers of the Constitution had had in mind were     И р C e ‎لا A к м D D '® D D a a a لس S n e v . — —
719 РОН ОСН Tun. those which might be classified as Acts of God (e.g. earthquakes), not as political difficulties. If an exception were to be made for China, every State in arrears would ask to be excused payment, and future sessions of the General Conference would be em- barrassed by applications for permission to vote while in default, in support of which purely political reasons would be advanced. [31] Mr. de LACHARRIERE (France) wished to make a reservation concerning the United Kingdom delegation’s interpretation of “conditions beyond the control of the Member Nation”. If the framers of Unesco’s Constitution had had in mind only exceptions which might be classified as Acts of God, they would certainly have specified them as such. It thus apparead logical to include war and revolu- tion among the uncontrollable conditions. The French delegation therefore maintained its attitude and would vote in favour of China’s being permitted to vote. [32] Mr. HOLGUIN (Colombia) was in agreement with the Chinese delegation’s application, and would support the Philippine representative’s resolution. He said that he was in favour of giving the Chinese delegation the right to vote, and that an Organi- zation like Unesco should not automatically apply Article IV of the Constitution, since conditions beyond the control of the Member States might cause them to fall into arrears with their contributions. He concluded by saying that his delegation would vote in favour of the Chinese delegation’s application. [33] At the suggestion of Count JACINI (Italy), the Committee decided to close the discussion. [34] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) recalled that several proposals had been submitted to the Committee:
(1) The proposal made by the United Kingdom delegation, which ran: This Committee recommends that, in accordance with Article IV C 8(b), the General Conference should not permit the Chinese delegation to vote at the present session of the General Conference.
(2) The proposal made by the Philippine delegation, as follows: The General Conference approves the application presented by the Chinese delegation to vote at the present session of the General Conference.
(3) The amendment put forward by the Australian delegation, suggesting that the following sentence should be added to the Philippine resolution: it being clearly understood that the payment made by China and referred to in the letter from the Chinese COMM TI TEE X-8 Government dated 18 May 1951 was in part-payment of contributions still due from China. [35] Account would be taken of the amended wording suggested by the Costa Rican delegation in the French and English versions of the Philippine resolution. [36] Mr. Saba announced that Sir John Maud had asked for the vote on his resolution to be taken first. [37] Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) withdrew the pro- posal he had made earlier in the discussion, as there seemed to be no longer any reason for it. [38] Mr. CATES (United States of America) and Mr. SEBASTIAN (Philippines) considered that the Committee should first vote on the Philippine re- solution, on the ground that it was an affirmative motion. [39] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom), on the contrary, thought that his resolution should be taken first because it recommended the General Conference to abide by the rule set forth in para- graph 8b. of Article IV of the Constitution. The exception invoked by the Philippine resolution came later, namely, in paragraph 8c. If the Committee rejected Sir John's resolution, it could go on to study the exception proposed. [40] The CHAIRMAN asked the Committee to decide which proposal should be taken first. [41] By 19 votes to 8, the Committee decided to give priority to the Philippine delegation’s resolution. [42] The CHAIRMAN then put to the vote first the Australian delegation’s amendment, and then the Philippine delegation’s resolution. [43] By 19 votes in favour, with 0 against, and
7 abstentions, the Australian amendment was adopted. [44] By 19 votes to 7, with 6 abstentions, the Philippine resolution was adopted. [45] Mr. CHENG (China) thanked the Committee warmly for the sympathy it had shown towards his country by accepting its request. Comments and Observations of Member States on the Regulations Relating to Recommen- dations to Member States and International Conventions (Item 6.8 of the Agenda) (con- tinuation). [46] Committee Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) recalled that the had decided to postpone further   X-8 PROCEDURE discussion of that item of the agenda until a decision had been reached on the question of biennial sessions of the General Conference, since the biennial system would make it easier to extend the time- limits. [47] The Committee had adopted that principle on the previous day, and it was to be applied from
1952 onwards. [48] As it was generally agreed that the experience so far gained regarding the procedure to be followed in connexion with recommendations and international conventions was not sufficiently ex- tensive, the Committee might perhaps ask the Director-General to present, at the 1952 session, some suggestions for amendments to the regulations. [49] The Official and External Relations Com- mission, however, was in receipt of a United Nations request that the various international agencies should incorporate in their rules of procedure, pro- visions of such nature as to ensure the necessary degree of co-ordination among them when drawing up international conventions. Subject to a decision on that point, which would doubtless be referred to the Procedure Committee after its consideration by the Official and External Relations Commission, the question as a whole could be postponed until the next session. [50] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) agreed that it would be a waste of time to discuss the matter at the current session. He therefore proposed that the Committee should accept the Director-General’s suggestion and postpone discussion until the follow- ing year. [51] Mr. CATES (United States of America) urged that there should be proper co-ordination with the Official and External Relations Commission, which was studying a cognate question which it would obviously have to refer to the Procedure Committee. [52] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) explained that the purpose of the document submitted to the Official and External Relations Commission was merely to ensure that, when any organization drew up an international convention, it would consult not merely its Member States but, simultaneously, the United Nations and such Specialized Agencies as might be concerned. [53] Subject to a decision on that point, which the Committee would not be able to consider until the Official and External Relations Commission had had time to discuss it, the question of the other changes to be made in the regulations concerning inter- national conventions could be postponed until the next session of the Conference. [54] Mr. CATES (United States of America) said COMMITTEE 720 that his delegation considered that too great emphasis was being placed by international organi- zations, and especially by Unesco, on the use of conventions. He regretted that the Secretariat had felt it necessary to adopt special rules with regard to conventions; he would have preferred to see some strengthening of recommendations to Governments. To make too many conventions was to detract from their value. There were at the moment at least two conventions in preparation at Unesco and a number of others in other Specialized Agencies. A sifting process was necessary. The United States delegation believed that a convention should be prepared only when it was quite clearthat the desired results could not be achieved by any other normal procedure, and when there was sufficient support to ensure that the convention would be effective. [55] Mr. Cates felt that there were already too many procedural methods available and that the widening of the choice would lead the Procedure Committee to take more interest in technical details than in the real activity of Unesco. [56] The United States Government would, during the year, submit in writing specific comments on the various articles of the proposed regulations. Mr. Cates regretted that the documents before the Committee contained a request for special reports; even as things were too many reports were required and according to the Director-General, only some
10 to 15 Member States took the trouble to comply with the various requests of the Secretariat. He therefore thought that the clause in question might with advantage be deleted, on the ground that the regular reporting procedures would be sufficient. [67] Mr. Cates proposed that members should be allowed to comment on the points raised by the United Nations, which were then before the Official and External Relations Commission. [58] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) expressed his agreement with the United States delegate. [69] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) said that the regu- lations proposed and adopted at the previous session covered the points made by the United States re- presentative, since they stipulated that Member States should make a preliminary study of any questions which were to be the subject of conventions. [60] Mr. BOERLIN (Switzerland) supported the suggestion made by the Director-General’s represen- tative that the matter should be postponed until the next session. Discussions sometimes took place without those concerned having any clear idea of the subject on hand; but if the Conference wished to achieve practical results, it would do well to wait for explanations and suggestions from the Director- General and the various National Commissions. The      TD PROCEDURE peoples judged Unesco’s work, not by the length of its discussions, but by the results of its efforts to promote peace, culture and Human Rights. The wisest solution, he thought, would therefore be to postpone to a later date anything that was not yet quite clear. [61] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) suggested that, subject to the reservation he had already made con- cerning co-ordination with the United Nations and COMMITTEE Х-9 the Specialized Agencies, the other changes to be made in the regulations should be postponed until the following year, and that the Committee's Rapporteur should submit, together withhis report, a draft recommendation to that effect. [62] The proposal was adopted. The meeting rose at 1 p.m. NINTH MEETING Saturday, 7 July 1951, at 10.30 a.m. Chairman: Mr. Tevrrk SAGLAM (Turkey) Draft Amendments to the Rules of Procedure Proposed by the Executive Board (document
6C/PRO/11). [1] The CHAIRMAN requested the Committee to consider document 6C/PRO/11, relating to certain draft amendments to the Rules of Procedure, and called upon the representative of the Executive Board to comment on it. [2] Mr. VERNIERS (Representative of the Ex- ecutive Board) stated that the purpose of the draft amendments submitted to the Committee, relating to two separate but complementary questions, was to improve the technical organization of the General Conference and consequently to increase its ef- ficiency. [3] In the first part of the document, concerning the presentation of draft resolutions and amend- ments, it was proposed to fix deadlines, before the opening of the General Conference, for the sub- mission of draft resolutions and amendments in- volving modifications in the Programme and the Budget Estimates, and after the opening of the session for the submission of amendments to the above-mentioned drafts. The deadlines fixed by the Executive Board were 15 days before the opening of the session in the first case and the seventh day of the session in the second. The Executive Board pro- posed that Rule 78 of the Rules of Procedure should be amended accordingly. [4] The second part of document 6C/PRO/11 related to the number and election of Officers of the General Conference and of its various bodies. [5] In order to ensure a more equitable geographic distribution and a wider technical competence, the Executive Board proposed:
(1) to raise the number of the Vice-Presidents of the General Conference from seven to 10;
(2) to increase to three the number of Vice- Chairmen of Commissions and Committees on which all Member States were represented, i.e. the Pro- gramme Commission, the Administrative Com- mission, the Official and External Relations Com- mission, the Procedure Committee and the Nomi- nations Committee. [6] Thus, a total of 25 offices would be available to members of the various delegations. [7] Further, in order to expedite the business of the Nominations Committee, the Executive Board proposed that the lists of delegations—which would have reached the Director-General at least one week before the opening of the session—should be sub- mitted to it for preliminary study before the Confer- ence, so that the Nominations Committee could be presented with a list of persons suitable for the various offices. [8] Accordingly, the Executive Board proposed amendments to Rules 22, 30, 34, 38 and 47 of the Rules of Procedure. I. Presentation of Draft Resolutions and Amend- ments. [9] The CHAIRMAN opened the discussion on the first part of document 6C/PRO/11. [10] Mr. RIBBLE (United States of America) said — L L L L     — e e