VIII-13 BUDGET that Unesco fellows would often go to two or three countries. [65] With regard to the question of interneships in Paris, the idea was to enable officials from the various Ministries of Education to come to Paris for six months to study the programme and administra- tion of Unesco from within the Secretariat. It was proposed to give them a per diem of $10, or, in other words, $300 a month. [66] Miss LAISE (United States of America) said that the United Nations rate for fellowships and interneships for the same level of persons was only $250 рег month. She thought it would be most unfortunate if Unesco paid a higher rate. [67] Mr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) noted that Mr. Kadhim had stated that the fellowships were for civil servants, whose salaries would continue to be paid in their home countries. [68] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) thought it unnecessary to bring officials of Ministries of Edu- cation to Paris, as the National Commissions should be able to provide them with all the information concerned. [69] Mr. KADHIM (Deputy Head, Exchange of GCIOM MT IT TEE Persons Service) stated that the Secretariat had not considered a per diem of $10 to be too high, in view of the cost of living in Paris. It had been felt, moreover, that such fellowships should be at a slightly higher rate than the others. However, if the Committee was of the opinion that the rate should be reduced, the Secretariat would of course agree. [70] It was agreed to recommend in the report that the interneships should be reduced to the United Nations rate of $250, and that further con- sideration should be given to Sir Frank Harby's suggestion that the interneships might be abandoned altogether, leaving it to National Commissions to supply the Ministries of Education with the neces- sary information on Unesco’s programme and administration. [71] Mr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) urged that the report should stipulate that it was desired not to reduce the funds allocated for Resolution 5.24, but to reduce some of the over-generous allowances so as to increase the number of recipients, since such work was of paramount importance to Unesco. The meeting rose at noon. THIRTEENTH MEETING Saturday, 16 June 1951, at 2.30 p.m. Chairman: Mr. F. BENDER (Netherlands) Examination of the Budget Estimates (con- tinuation) [document 6C/5 (11) ]. General Policy (Part I). GENERAL CONFERENCE (L.A) (page 35). [1] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) thought it was not incumbent upon the Budget Committee to take an immediate decision on the General Conference estimate, because the place of the next General Conference had not yet been definitely fixed. He pointed out that the appropriations for the General Conference in Florence had been used for their right purpose, but that certain Departments had had recourse to funds earmarked for travel expenses, so as to send extra members of the Secretariat to Florence. He wondered whether the travel expenses of the different Departments, which seemed to him rather high, had been calculated so as to cover the possible travel of some officials to Montevideo. In his opinion, that method was illogical; Member States were entitled to know the exact expenses involved by a General Conference. It was therefore desirable that all appropriations for a General Con- ference should be administered by one service. [2] Mr. WYNES (Australia) queried three points: (a) Hospitality—his Government felt that the sum of $6,000 was unnecessary, and could be reduced to $3,000. (b) Travel—he suggested that a maximum of 140 persons from the Secretariat should attend the next session of the General Conference if it were held away from Paris, instead of the 170 proposed.
579 BUDGET (с) Furniture and Equipmenthe thought the experience of the Florence Conference showed that $1,000 should suffice for that item. [8] Mr. Wynes also presumed that the Committee would note the economy of $476,976 which would result from the holding of the next session in Paris. [4] The CHAIRMAN felt that the Committee could only endorse Mr. Wynes’ last observation at the moment, and discuss the detailed estimates after a decision on the location of the next session had been taken by the General Conference. [5] In reply to one of Mr. GUIGNOLET's questions, Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) pointed out that travel of Secretariat members to Montevideo for the General Conference was not included in the budgets of any of the other Departments. [6] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) had reason to believe that some 50 members of the Secretariat had gone to Florence, in addition to the 150 whose travel had been allowed for in the General Conference budget. [7] Mr. MONTAGNIER (Head, Bureau of Confer- ence Planning and General Services) said that, in the preceding year, only about 10 officials were called to Florence at the last moment, when their presence was found necessary for the work of the Conference. Some officials had also gone to Italy at the same time on official business connected with Unesco’s programme. He said that, when the Executive Board was discussing the budget estimates, the Secretariat had undertaken to include under one heading all appropriations requested for the General Conference in 1952. With regard to the questions raised by Mr. Wynes, he recalled that the previous year the General Committee of the Conference had decided to continue holding a reception at the end of the Conference, in spite of proposals to the con- trary. If the Committee thought it should accept the reduction in appropriations requested by Mr. Wynes, the Secretariat would risk being short of the necessary funds, should it have to organize a reception of that kind. [8] With regard to the number of members of the Secretariat who would have to travel to the General Conference, Mr. Montagnier did not think Mr. Wynes’ proposal could be accepted. He recalled that it had already, in Mexico City, been very difficult to recruit the qualified staff required by the Spanish language service. According to information supplied by the Uruguayan Government, there would be similar difficulties in Montevideo. The figure of 170 persons could not therefore be reduced. On the other hand, he was prepared to agree to a reduction of $1,000 in the estimates for rental of furniture and equip- MMS TITEEل‏ VIII-13 ment, as the Government of Uruguay would have sufficient time to assemble the necessary material. [9] Sir Ronald ADAM (Representative of the Exe- cutive Board) pointed out that the holding of the General Conference in November 1952 was con- ditional upon a decision of the plenary meeting. [10] ‘Mr. MONTAGNIER (Head, Bureau of Con- ference Planning and General Services) agreed, pointing out that, although the Executive Board had approved that proposal, it was also necessary for the General Conference to do so. [11] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) asked why the cost of printing documents for the General Conference had risen from $14,000 to $33,900. He also wondered whether it was necessary to publish 3,000 copies of the Conférence Handbook and the Confer- ence Journal. [12] Mr. MONTAGNIER (Head, Bureau of Con- ference Planning and General Services) reminded the meeting that the adoption of Spanish as a work- ing language obliged the Secretariat to publish all the documents in that language and, moreover, that the price of paper had risen steeply; those two con- siderations justified the increase in the estimates. He explained the Conference Handbook would be issued as follows: English 700 copies, French
800 copies, Spanish 400 copies. For the Journal, the proposed issues of the English, French and Spanish editions were 500, 700, and 300 copies respectively. He pointed out that the entire edition of the 1950 Conference Handbook had been exhausted. [13] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) observing that the figures given in Table X did not agree with those just quoted, said he would revert to the point. [14] Mr. MONTAGNIER (Head, Bureau of Con- ference Planning and General Services) shared Mr. Guignolet’s doubts as to the usefulness of the Conference Journal, but recalled that the Executive Board had decided upon its publication at its Twenty-fifth Meeting. Its abolition would certainly result in a saving of work, staff and money. Executive Boarp (I.B) (page 42). [15] Sir Ronald ADAM (Representative of the Exe- cutive Board) said that he had been requested to raise two points. [16] The first was the question of the status of the Secretary of the Board. That official was a staff member of Unesco, in the service of Mr. Montagnier, but he was in a rather special position and enjoyed considerable independence. It had been proposed to establish the post at Grade 14.      VIII-13 BUDGET [17] However, as the chosen incumbent was then lacking experience, he had been appointed at Grade 12, and was still at that grade. The recent expert committee on classification had investigated the post, but had advised that the duties and respon- sibilities did not warrant a higher grading. The Executive Board, however, felt that as the official concerned was Secretary to the controlling organ of Unesco, his status should most certainly be raised to the Grade 14 level. The Budget Committee was, therefore, asked to approve a salary increase of approximately $300 for that purpose, for 1952. [18] The second question was that of the per diem of Board members. It had been fixed at $16 at the time of the last devaluation of the French franc, but, as things stood, many members felt that sum to be insufficient. Rising prices had cancelled the benefits of devaluation and it was felt that the per diem rate should be raised to that in effect at the World Health Organization and in European offices of the United Nations, i.e. $20. The effect of that proposal would be a budgetary increase of approxi- mately $2,300. [19] Mr. RAADI (Iran) asked what was the normal procedure for upgrading a post within the Secretariat. [20] Sir Ronald ADAM (Representative of the Exe- cutive Board) repeated that the post concerned was a special case, being the only one having a direct relation to the Executive Board. [21] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) pointed out that a weak committee often required a strong secretary, but that in a strong committee the secretary merely carried out orders and did not require such a high grade. In the particular case in question, he did not think a grade higher than 12 was warranted. [22] Mr. RAADI (Iran) did not wish to raise objec- tions to Sir Ronald Adam’s proposal; he merely wished to be informed of the Secreatriat’s usual pro- cedure in such matters. [23] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) explained that, in general, it was within the authority of the Director- General to classify posts according to the duties and responsibilities involved. In that matter he had recently had the advice of an expert committee. [24] The CHAIRMAN felt that the only concern of the Budget Committee should be the question of the increased funds requested. It was not com- petent to classify the post. [25] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) did not think that, in the light of the current discussion, the Committee COMMITTEE 580 could give a decision on the question. However,it could give a decision upon the suggested increase of $300, if a document were laid before it for the purpose. [26] After further discussion concerning the Com- mittee’s competence to deal with the matter, it was agreed, on a motion of Miss LAISE (United States of America), supported by Mr. BRULL (Cuba), that the decision should rest with the Director-General. The Budget Committee would consider the increased estimates, if necessary, after a report had been received from the Administrative Commission. [27] With regard to the increased per diem proposed for the Executive Board, Mr. WYNES (Australia) asked how it would affect the per diem of other experts and consultants engaged by Unesco. Would their per diem also be paid at the increased rate? 3 [28] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) said that such per- sonnel would, in any case, be paid at the rate of $20 per diem in view of a recent decision taken by all Specialized Agencies of the United Nations. [29] Miss LAISE (United States of America) felt that the matter should be considered in relation to other per diem and allowance problems. It was really a question of policy for decision by the Ad- ministrative Commission. [30] It was agreed to refer the matter to the Ad- ministrative Commission. [31] Mr. RAADI (Iran) noted that the comparative table in the budget estimates for the General Con- ference showed $414,494 for travel on official business, on the assumption that the session would be held in Montevideo, and $51,702 for a session in Paris. The appropriation requested under the corres- ponding item in the Executive Board's budget (page 45) was $75,066, the figure calculated for a session at Montevideo. He would like to know what the estimate would be if the General Conference were held in Paris. [32] Mr. MONTAGNIER (Head, Bureau of Con- ference Planning and General Services) replied that there would be a saving of $43,000. General Administration (Part II). Bureau oF CONFERENCE PLANNING AND GENERAL SER- vices (II.D) (page 70). [33] Miss LAISE (United States of America) remarked that the organizational structure of the    BUDGET unit appeared somewhat strange. She could not understand why there should be such a large gap between the Head of the Bureau, at Grade 18, and his nearest subordinate, at Grade 13. It would seem that a higher intermediary grade was desirable, especially if the Bureau was to undertake the com- plicated negotiations in connexion with the project for a new building. [34] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) asked why the Head of the Registry Division had been raised from Grade 11 to Grade 12. He also wished to knowthe reason for the increase in staff establishment in the Archives Division. [35] Mr. MONTAGNIER (Head, Bureau of Con- ference Planning and General Services) stated that about 12 posts had been abolished in the whole of his Service, in response to the Director-General’s request. New posts would doubtless have to be created for the necessary work in the event of a new building being constructed. In reply to Mr. Guignolet’s questions, he said that all the Heads of Division in his Service had been classified at the new P3 grade on the recommendation of the experts. The staff of the Archives Division had had to be increased, in viewof the fact thatit had always been necessary to call in temporary staff to deal with the increased work in the Division. [36] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) felt that direct employment by Unesco was often more econo- mical than contracting for outside services. With regard to the increase in personnel for Archives, he pointed out that, at the moment, the service was dealing with four years’ arrears of work, and that it would be wise to maintain the increase in per- sonnel, at least for the time being. It might be possible to make reductions later, when the arrears had been cleared. [37]. Mr. MONTAGNIER (Head, Bureau of Con- ference Planning and General Services) mentioned that the Director-General had in fact considered the possibility of putting some of the work out to com- mercial firms, but costs would thereby be increased by 30 to 50 per cent. [38] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France), observing that overtime still accounted for an expenditure of $10,000, asked whether, in certain cases, it would not be more economical to recruit another permanent member of the staff and abolish overtime. [39] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) agreed with Mr. Guignolet. One extra permanent post might often save overtime payments in excess of the salary for that post. [10] Mr. MONTAGNIER (Head, Bureau of Con-     COMMIT TEE VIII-13 ference Planning and General Services) said that it was very difficult to forecast exactly the needs of his Service. As some members of the staff had accu- mulated up to 60 days of annual leave due to them, temporary staff had to be recruited to allow the others to take their regular leave. Moreover, work connected with electricity, plumbing and heating sometimes had to be done outside normal working hours. [41] In reply to a question put by Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) about the Bureau of Conference Planning's work in organizing meetings held in Unesco House, Mr. Montagnier said that the Bureau drew up budget estimates at the request of the Departments con- cerned, and in conjunction with them, according to the work schedule. He added that interpreters might be called upon to work outside Unesco when circumstances allowed and, on the other hand, it was often necessary to engage temporary interpreters. The prevailing rates provided for a salary of $38 a day in the first case and $25 a day in the second. [42] Miss LAISE (United States of America) felt that the amount of $400, allowed for the Head of the Bureauto visit New York to confer with the United Nations on conference schedules, was unnecessary. The essential co-ordination of conference schedules could be accomplished by letter or by discussion during the United Nations Assembly in Paris at the end of 1951 and the beginning of 1952. Miss Laise therefore proposed the deletion of that appropriation. [43] Mr. MONTAGNIER (Head, Bureau of Con- ference Planning and General Services) said he hoped it would not be necessary to undertake the journey in question. He reminded the meeting that such discussions on the time-table of conferences had been contemplated by the United Nations, with a view to ensuring better co-ordination between the Special- ized Agencies. However, he agreed to the deletion of the item of $400, as suggested by Miss Laise. [44] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) pointed out that the economies effected in the administration under General Services had resulted in slower services to programme Departments. Complaints were some- times received, but he was sure the Committee would appreciate the stringent policy of economy on ad- ministrative costs which had prompted the action in question. External Relations (Part IIT.8). EXTERNAL RELATIONS SERVICE (I11.8.A) (pages 239-50). [45] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) felt that an External Relations Service of 58 people, after five years’ experience, was over-staffed.    VIII-13 BUDGET [46] Miss LAISE (United States of America) noted that, under the heading Relations with Governments and National Commissions, the four Area Desks had been maintained. She requested details about the services rendered by those posts. Secondly, under the heading “Relations with International Organiza- tions”, she asked whether members of the service attended all meetings of the United Nations and,if so, whether they represented Unesco at all com- mittees and meetings held, or only a selected few. [47] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations Service) said that the number of posts in his Service had steadily decreased over the past three years, in accordance with the Director-General’s instructions. The 58 posts mentioned included the staff of some services which were attached to the External Rela- tions Service for administrative purposes only—for example, the Unesco Offices in Germany and Japan, whose work was carried on in a very different sphere from that of the Central Service to which they were attached. He said that one post in the United Nations Liaison Office would be abolished in 1952. He pointed out the important part played by the Havana Regional Office in Unesco’s activities in Latin America; but the staff on that office was in- adequate, and in some cases help had to be sought from the Montevideo Field Science Co-operation Office. Under the plan for a general re-organization of Unesco’s regional services, which was to be sub- mitted to the General Conference, two posts of Gen- eral Adviser had been abolished in the 1952 budget estimates. He did not think that the usefulness and effectiveness of the liaison services could be con- tested. Unesco’s activities were to be progressively better adapted to the needs of the different Member States. Furthermore, there was no rigid system in force with regard to Unesco’s representation at United Nations meetings. The Director-General decided the course to be followed in each case, according to the importance and object of each meeting. Where necessary, the officials who repre- sented Unesco for general purposes were accom- panied by specialists. [48] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) said that, in studying section 8 (External Relations) of the budget esti- mates, he had been impressed by the reductions that had been made in it. The natural development and true mission of Unesco lay, however, in its external relations, and for that reason he could not share the view of the United Kingdom representative that the Service in question was over-staffed. [49] Unesco, as an international institution, had to make its presence felt in all countries. The External Relations Service should be reinforced, so that it might always be in a position to meet any inter- national contingency for the purpose of spreading its message and activities. C'OMMI TT EE 582 [50] Mr. Brull said moreover that he was sorry to note that more provision had not been made in the budget for the Havana centre, which had been set up at a time when Unesco was beginning to expand systematically throughout the world, with a view to engaging in further enterprises at a later date. The Havana centre had begun as an experi- ment, but it should serve as a model for fresh enter- prises of the same kind in other parts of the world. [51] In the discussion of the Havana centre budget it had been referred to as “skeleton”, but it had been stated that there might be possibilities for expansion - in the next budget. For more than a year, the Havana centre had been functioning and performing splendid co-ordinated work. In the budget under consideration, however, the estimates of the previous year were barely maintained. In the explanations accompanying the budget, on the other hand, it was stated that the Regional Office in the Western Hemi- sphere would in 1952 continue to perform the same type of functions as it was already performing, and that “its activities would be developed”. It was difficult for it to do so, and grow, if the necessary resources were not provided for it in the budget. [52] The Havana centre, which was workable and effective, was an example of what Unesco could become in the future; if and when similar centres were set up in various parts of the world. A budget should therefore be decided upon that would makeit as feasible as possible to attain the ends that Unesco had been designed to achieve. [53] The CHAIRMAN, speaking as the delegate of the Netherlands, expressed his surprise that there should be so many secretaries in the Department. He referred in particular to the Divisions for Non- Governmental Organizations and for Labour Organi- zations, and wondered whetherit wasreally necessary for each head of division to have his own secretary and whether more could not be saved by pooling. [54] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations Service) explained that there was in fact great flexi- bility in the employment of secretaries throughout the department. It was probably difficult for anyone who had not worked in the Secretariat to realize the tremendous load of typing that had to be accom- plished by the External Relations Service and espe- cially by the two divisions referred to. There were more than 90 non-governmental organizations ap- proved for consultative status with Unesco, and some
150 to 200 others which kept actively in touch with the Secretariat. In addition to their secretarial duties, the secretaries did much independent routine work. The division for liaison with labour organi- zations was also extremely heavily occupied, and Mr. Berkeley was always grateful if relative slackness in another section enabled him to obtain additional help for his own.
583 BUDGET [55] Miss LAISE (United States of America) assured Mr. de Blonay that delegations were acutely aware of the amount of documents which had to be pre- pared, since they were after all the recipients of them all. She asked for information concerning the Division for relations with Governments and National Commissions, where there were 16 staff members. The contacts in question were made at the highest level, as was also emphasized in the Director-General’s Report, and it seemed clear that they should continue at that level. She therefore wondered what remained to be done by 16 people at the working level. If it was only to handle correspondence, were so many staff really justified? [66] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) said he was mainly concerned with the problem of co-ordination within the Secretariat. It had been stated that, in each department, some officials were already responsible for external contacts. Did that not cause some over- lapping with the External Relations Service? He himself hoped that the Service might be a real Unesco “Ministry of Foreign Affairs”, and that it would comprise officers whose competence extended to several spheres, so that they could carry out their work with the utmost success. He recalled that, in the previous year, the Budget Committee had re- commended a more rational use of the Secretariat staff, and had asked that the travel of staff on official business should coincide so far as possible with the home leave of the officials involved. [67] Further Mr. Guignolet would like an account of the way in which Unesco’s Official Bulletin was published. [68] Mr. Guignolet did not think that the Com- mittee could make a recommendation on the lines of the Cuban delegate’s statement so far as the Havana Regional Office was concerned. Nevertheless the Committee might mention Mr. Brull’s views in its report. [69] The CHAIRMAN asked the representative of Cuba whether he did not think that the question he had raised could be better dealt with by the External Relations Commission. [60] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) said that the represen- tative of France shared his view that the External Relations Service should be reinforced. In addition, travel by experts, technicians, advisers, etc. should be undertaken under the direction of the External Relations Service, so that a real planned saving could be effected—not a saving on the cost of travel itself, but a reduction in the number of journeys under- taken. That, in his view, was the main point. [61] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations Service) considered it most important to have offi- cials in his Service from the various regions in which Unesco’s projects were carried out. The Latin C'OMMIT TEE VIII-13 American section for instance, had played a large part in organizing the Havana Regional Office, and in arranging the Regional Conference of National Commissions in the Western Hemisphere. Similarly, the South-East Asia and Far East section was under- taking preparations for the coming Regional Con- ference in Bangkok. The Europe and English- Speaking Countries section was responsible for liaison with the countries whose National Commissions were most actives. Mr. de Blonay emphasized, however, that Mr. Guignolet’s suggestion with regard to the External Relations Service would impose too heavy a burden of work upon it. Moreover, the help of specialists was essential in some highly technical fields, and officials of the External Relations Service could not act as substitutes in that respect, no matter how competent they might be. [62] The recommendations for rationalizing the organization of missions had twice been put into effect. The Official Bulletin appeared six times a year, and not twice a month, as erroneously stated in the French text of Table X. [63] The CHAIRMAN thought that further details should be raised in the Administrative Commission. [64] Miss LAISE (United States of America) sup- ported Mr. de Blonay, and wished to emphasize that each region had its own problems. While it was easy for Mr. Guignolet, living in Paris, to make direct contact with the Secretariat, the problem was much greater for National Commissions which were more distant, and it was realized that a liaison officer was quite unable to meet all the technical requirements of a satisfactory relationship. On the other hand, Governments were being asked to send represen- tatives to Unesco in Paris to facilitate contacts, and she believed that, if that were done, the proposal for high-level staff to deal with Governments would have to be seriously reviewed. [65] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) assured Mr. Guignolet that all travel was co-ordinated in the Office of the Director-General, with the special object of avoiding overlapping and duplication. [66] Mr. WYNES (Australia) asked how many Secretaries of National Commissions were to visit Paris under the item “Consultants” at the bottom of page 241, and how frequently. [67] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations Service) said that visits from 15 to 20 Secretaries of National Commissions were expected, and that the Secretariat was trying to distribute invitations fairly amongst the different regions of the world. [68] Mr. RAADI (Iran) asked whether savings could not be effected by inviting the Secretaries of