VII-4 as in 1951. Use of the surplus funds in question would then have the effect of reducing the 1952 assessments of Member States, since the Director- General would not have to request an increased budget to ensure maintenance of activities at the existing level in spite of payment deficiencies. [48] In view of the different proposals before the meeting, Mr. Ingram proposed adjournment, to ADMINITST RAT IV E COMMISSION permit the opposing groups to formulate their pro- posals in writing. That would facilitate a decision at the afternoon meeting. [49] The suggestion to adjourn the discussion was agreed. The meeting rose at 12.30 p.m. FOURTH MEETING Saturday, 23 June 1951, at 3.30 p.m. Chairman: Baron van der STRATEN-WAILLET (Belgium) Methods of Financing the Budget for 1952 (continuation). Consideration of the Resolution Presented by the Australian Delegation (document 6C/DR/44) and the Resolution Presented by the United Kingdom Delegation (document 6C/DR/45). [1] Before opening the discussion on the two resolu- tions, the CHAIRMAN explained that, when it came to voting, the United Kingdom resolution would be takenfirst, as it was furthest from existing provisions; the Commission would vote on the Australian resolu- tion only if the United Kingdom resolution was rejected. [2] The procedure suggested by the Chairman was approved. [3] Mr. MORGENSTIERNE (Norway) submitted the following draft resolution: The Administrative Commission recommends the adop- tion by the General Conference of the following resolution: The Programme should be based on the total amount of the budget of the Organization for 1952, to be paid by the Member States according to their respective assess- ments. A system should be established of first and second priorities for the items included in the pro- gramme, the latter not to be undertaken if a certain amount of the contributions is not collected in time. The part of the budget destined to cover the expenses of the items given second priority should be calculated according to previous experience by the Organization of how much of the assessed amounts may be expected to be paid for the current year. [4] The CHAIRMAN referred to Rule 78 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, which laid down that draft resolutions, if they were to be discussed and put to the vote, had to be presented in writing and within certain time-limits. [5] Mr. MORGENSTIERNE (Norway) hoped that the Chairman would regard the resolution he had just presented as an exception, but said that, in any case, he would, of course accept the Chairman's ruling. [6] The CHAIRMAN informed the Commission that the Norwegian resolution would be typed and distributed forthwith and could then be considered. [7] Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom) observed that the draft resolution presented by his delegation would not prevent the Director-General and the Executive Board from instituting priorities, if they felt it necessary to do so, in their review of the Organization's expenditure during the year. On the contrary, the second provision of the first paragraph of the resolution made it clear that the Director General and the Executive Board should keep the Organization’s expenditure under constant review and be prepared to put into effect only such part of the programme as could be financed. The United King: dom delegation considered it impossible for the General Conference, at its current session, to estab- lish such priorities for a programme which had been drawn up without that consideration in mind. [8] Inorderthat it might not appear that the United Kingdom delegation was trying to establish hard and fast rules for future years, Mr. Thompson proposed a number of minor amendments to the resolution, as follows:    | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | ( (
(1) In the third line of the first paragraph, the words “which seem to be in accord with sound financial practice” should be deleted.
(2) In sub-paragraph 1 of the first paragraph, “any” programme should read “the” programme; the words “for 1952” should be inserted after “Gen- eral Conference”; the words “a realistic” in the second line should be deleted.
(3) In the fourth line of the second paragraph, the word “may” should be substituted for “will”.
(4) The words “of certain” should be inserted in the fourth line of the third paragraph before “of the Financial Regulation”. [9] Mr. INGRAM (United States of America) asked the United Kingdom delegation to accept a few further amendments:
(1) In the fourth line of the second paragraph, the deletion of the words “for any given year”.
(2) The amendment of the third paragraph as follows: insertion of the words “for 1952” after “other than Member States” contributions”, and a full-stop after “financing of the budget”. The next sentence would then read “Certain of these require waiver of the Financial Regulations.” The last sentence would be unchanged.
(3) In the second line of the fourth paragraph, the deletion of the words “of non-contributed income”. [10] Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom) accepted the United States delegation’s amendments. [11] Mr. HOCKIN (Canada) stated that, in con- sidering Unesco’s budget, his Government had been particularly interested in two main issues: firstly, the necessity for a system of priorities in the pro- gramme; and, secondly, the problem of the use of non-recurring funds for financing the Organization's activities. [12] With regard to the first question, the Cana- dian delegation had suggested, at the last session of the Conference, a number of major themes which should form the core of Unesco’s programme. His Government was glad that the Economic and Social Council had suggested priority systems, and felt that Unesco should institute such a system as soon as possible. [13] With regard to the second question, the Cana- dian Government felt very strongly that it would be unwise to allow the use of non-recurring funds in one year to become part of the normal expenditure pattern. Such funds should not be considered as part of the normal budget, as, in all probability, they would not be forthcoming in future years, and Mem- ber States would then be faced with the alternative of increasing their own contributions to keep up the same level of activity, or of reducing the level of activity. Therefore, only low-priority, or short-term Projects should be financed from non-recurring funds. Ар М ТИТО НАТ РУЗ COMMISSION VII-4 [14] The Canadian delegation realized, however, that it was too late, at the juncture reached, to in- stitute a system of priorities for 1952 and that it would be unrealistic to forbid the use of non-recurring funds in 1952. It would therefore support the United Kingdom proposal, as providing the most reasonable solution for the time being, but it hoped that the Director-General and the Executive Board would present to the Seventh Session of the Con- ference a programme of work based on a system of priorities. [15] Mr. MORGENSTIERNE (Norway) associated himself with the Canadian delegate’s remarks and, referring to the second paragraph on page 5 of the Budget Estimates, observed that the failure of some Member States to pay their contributions was one of the arguments in favour of increasing the budget rather than of reducing the programme. He agreed with the Canadian delegate that the use of non- recurring funds was an unwise solution. [16] Summing up the essential difference between the Australian and United Kingdom proposals, Mr. MOORE (Australia) observed that the result of the United Kingdom proposal would be to increase expenditure in 1952 by $640,000 over and above the amount allowed under the Australian proposal. [17] Mr. INGRAM (United States of America) thought that there was some misunderstanding. The Australian delegate had suggested that the United Kingdom proposal built up the 1952 budget. In actual fact it did just the opposite, and the Australian proposal would produce a larger gross budget total. That method might have to be followed one day, as the Canadian delegate had said, when non-recurring funds were no longer available. But it would be harmful to the Organization if, for example, a gross budget total of $100,000,000 was adopted, instead of a real budget total of $50,000,000, which the Organ- ization was sure of receiving. The Governments of Member States would expect & hundred-million-dollar performance and would certainly be disappointed. He appealed to his fellow-delegates not to place Unesco in such a situation, [18] Mr. MASON (New-Zealand) United Kingdom proposal. seconded the [19] Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom) agreed with previous speakers that it would be dangerous to expect that non-recurring funds would always be available, and stressed the fact that his delegation’s resolution was intended as the best solution for 1952 only. [20] Mr. MOORE (Australia) considered that the position taken by Canada, Norway, the United Kingdom and New Zealand was regrettable. They had enunciated a number of fine principles and had          VII-4 then decided to postpone their application. In presenting the Budget Estimates, the Chairman of the Executive Board had stated that in 1951 certain financial arrangements had been made which could not be repeated; but certain delegations still wished to repeat them in 1952. The procedure proposed by the United Kingdom amounted to diverting a surplus which should be deducted from Member States’ contributions. [21] Mr. BILLY (France) supported the United Kingdom proposal. In his opinion, priorities were a programme and not a budgetary matter, and it seemed difficult to imagine a budget divided into two sections, of which only the first could be carried out for certain, as the second was to be financed with funds that might not, in fact, be forthcoming. [22] Mr. ROJAS (Venezuela) agreed with the United Kingdom delegate’s views; the Commission should consider only the problem which had arisen in 1951, and not the problems which might arise in future years. [23] He thought the United Kingdom resolution satisfactory because it provided for an equal sacrifice by all Member States, which should not, in any case, he asked to bear yet heavier burdens. He there- fore supported the proposal presented by the delegate of the United Kingdom. [24] Mr. van DALSEN (Union of South Africa) had been impressed by the Australian delegates remarks; pious hopes had been expressed, but there was no proposal to do anything about them. Unesco had talked about priorities for some years, and specific recommendations on the subject had been issued by the United Nations General Assembly and by the Economic and Social Council, but the Ex- ecutive Board seemed to have done nothing about it. That should not, however, prevent the General Con- ference from taking action, and the South African delegation would support the Norwegian proposal, or, if that were withdrawn, the Australian proposal. [25] Mr. MASON (New Zealand), replying to the Australian delegate, pointed out that it was not sug- gested that the financial arrangements made in 1951 should be repeated in toto, but that an arrangement should be made on similar lines. The Financial Regulations were the result of the Administrative Commission's discussions in former years and should be regarded, not as immutable law, but as a guide to procedure in normal years. They could be changed if the Administrative Commission con- sidered that the results of such change would be sound financial practice. [26] Mr. HOCKIN (Canada) stated that he would later present an amendment to the United Kingdom proposal. ADMI-NIS TR ATIVE 460COMMISSION [27] The CHAIRMAN stated that he would take a vote on the United Kingdom proposal, as amended both by the United Kingdom delegate himself and by the delegate of the United States of America. [28] The Canadian delegate had expressed a desire to add a paragraph, upon which a separate vote would be taken. [29] If the United Kingdom proposal were rejected, a vote would be taken on the Australian resolution. [30] The United Kingdom proposal was adopted by 21 votes to 6. Recovery of Arrears in Contributions of Member States. Item 9.4.4 (documents 6C/ADM/5 and Addenda I, II and III). [31] Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) intro- duced the working papers, apologizing for the fact that Addenda I and II to document 6C/ADM/5 had not yet been issued. Some of the information con- tained in the documents was fortunately already out of date, as certain payments had been made since the documents had appeared. In the basic document, it was stated that four Member States, having failed to pay their contributions, would lose their voting rights, but Argentina and Bolivia had since made payments sufficient to retain them. Document 6C/ ADM/5 contained Danish and United Kingdom pro- posals, and the Director-General’s comments thereon. The latter’s general conclusions were given on page 6. [32] In accordance with the General Conference's desire, the Director-General had issued a monthly press statement on arrears in contributions. Those statements had given rise to a number of unfavour- able comments in the press and, while personally feeling that it was right to make the public aware of the situation, the Director-General would like the Conference to decide whether or not the statements should continue. [33] Mr. BENDER (Netherlands) requested the Comptroller to give details of recent payments. [34] Mr. MIRO QUESADA (Peru), referring to document 6C/ADM/5, drew attention to an error on page 5 of Annex I, where it was stated that his country was in debt to the Organization. In May, Peru had paid its contribution to the 1950 Budget by cheque and, as the payment made was in excess of the amount owed for 1950, a part of the 1951 con- tribution had already been paid. [35] The CHAIRMAN thanked the delegate of Peru for his remarks, of which the Commission would take note with great satisfaction. [36] Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) indicated the payments made since the issue of document 6C/ ADM/5 Addendum III. Argentina had paid its con-    АМВАУ в tribution of $101,448 to the 1948 Budget. Bolivia had paid the total amount of $7,651 due for 1948. China had made a token payment of $14,000 towards the $501,845 which she owed for 1948, leaving $487,845 outstanding for that year. Argentina had paid $100 towards the $168,830 which it owed to the 1949 Budget. Bolivia had paid the total amount of $7,639 for 1949. Towards the 1950 Budget, Boli- via had paid $300 out of $6,743 outstanding on
16 June, leaving $6,443 still outstanding. Yugo- slavia had paid her total contribution of $33,620 to the 1951 Budget. The following deposits had been made to the Working Capital Fund since 16 June
1951: Bolivia: $2,700; Yugoslavia: $12,300. As indicated on page 5 of Annex I to document 6C/ ADM/5, Peru had paid its 1949 contribution in April 1950, and since then no communication had been received from that country on the subject of its contributions. [37] Mr. ROJAS (Venezuela) stated that the figures of $2,460 and $900, amounting to a total of $3,360, shown in document 6C/ADM/5, Addendum III as due from Venezuela, were the result of a mis- understanding. [38] The permanent Venezuelan delegate to Unesco having enquired how much his country owed Unesco, was informed that a balance of $25,420 was due. That sum had been paid immediately. Later, it had been found that Venezuela owed a larger sum, which accounted for the first-mentioned debtor balance; that sum would be paid shortly, probably in July, when the new national Budget cameinto force. [39] Mr. MIRO QUESADA (Peru) was much sur- prised to hear from the representative of the Director- General that Peru’s contribution to the 1950 Budget had not been received. [40] Mr. Quesada repeated that a chequein payment of the full sum had been handed over; he thought that there must be some misunderstanding, which should be cleared up and corrected. [41] Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) apologized to the Peruvian delegate. As indicated in Adden- dum III, there was nothing outstanding for Peru in
1950, her contribution to that year’s Budget having been received since April 1950. [42] Mr. MIRO QUESADA (Peru) thanked the Comptroller for his remark, as he wished it to be quite clear that Peru owed absolutely nothing to Unesco. [43] The CHAIRMAN proposed that the Com- mission should pass on to consider the item on changes in the Constitution regarding voting rights. Paragraph 10 on page 4 of document 6C/ADM/5 contained a draft amendment to Article IV, para- graph C. 8 (b) of the Constitution. COMMISSION VII-4 [44] The Commission agreed unanimously to recommend to the General Conference the adoption of that amendment. [45] Referring to the Danish proposals (sum- marized in paragraph 12 on page 4 of document 6C/ ADM/5) with regard to penalties to be incurred by Member States in arrears with their contributions, Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) explained that the Director-General felt that the matter should be very carefully studied by the Conference before any such measures were taken. The Director-General wondered whether it would really be in Unesco’s interest completely to sever relations with any Mem- ber State; he thought that by continuing its work in such a Member State, Unesco’s influence might be brought to bear on the Government to pay its contribution, rather than the reverse. [46] Mr. HOCKIN (Canada), while disagreeing with some of the details of the Danish proposals, felt that the proposed penalties were a step in the right direc- tion. He thought that the Director-General was being somewhat unrealistic in believing that Unesco, by continuing its connexion with a non-paying Member State, would thereby encourage future payments of arrears. In Mr. Hockin’s opinion, penalties were necessary from time to time, and most of those sug- gested in the Danish proposals were reasonable. If Member States were not prepared to pull their weight, they could not expect the Organization’s services to be at their disposal. Nevertheless, he agreed that Unesco should not “cut off its nose to spite its face”, for example, by depriving the Secretariat of the ser- vices of useful staff members belonging to non- paying Member States; that would be a greater loss to Unesco than to the Member State concerned. Also, pilot projects started in Member States in arrears should be continued there. The criterion for the infliction of penalties should be the benefit to the Organization as a whole, but there was no need to extend its services to defaulting States. Some such general declaration would be expedient, but the reference to representation on the Secretariat and the cancellation of pilot projects should be removed. [47] Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) drew attention to document 6C/ADM/5 Addendum I, which gave in detail the results of the discussion of those points in the United Nations Consultative Com- mittee on Administrative Questions. [48] Mr. INGRAM (United States of America) thought that such an important matter, involving the constitutional relations of Member States with Unesco, should be referred to a working party, together with two other important questions: that of local salaries, and that of amendments to the Financial Regulations. If that was agreed, the meet- ing might adjourn forthwith.    ADEMAS AA TVE [49] Having taken note of the recommendation of the United States delegate, the CHAIRMAN proposed that the members of the working party should be appointed, and that the Commission should decide upon the main points to be contained in its report to the General Conference at the plenary meeting on
25 June. [50] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget Office of the Director-General) suggested that the Commission's report to the plenary Conference should consist of three elements:
(1) The United Kingdom resolution as amended, together with the additional amendment to be pro- posed by the Canadian delegate, and a short sum- mary of the Commission's debate on that subject.
(2) An account of the Commission's debate on the percentage of the United States contribution for
1952, concluding with its proposal that the United States of America should be assessed at 33.33 per cent.
(3) The Commission's recommendations regard- ing the currency of contributions, with particular re- ference to Argentina, and the contributions of new Member States. [51] Agreed. [52] The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the correc- tion made by the Syrian delegate in connexion with the date of the last payment made by his country (document 6C/ADM/5, Annex, I, page 5) appeared in Addendum III to the document. [63] The following countries were appointed mem- bers of the working party: Canada, Denmark, France, India, Lebanon, Mexico, United Kingdom, United States of America, Venezuela. [64] The delegate of the United Kingdom was appointed Chairman of the working party. [55] The CHAIRMAN read out the terms of re- ference of the working party, which was to advise the Administrative Commission on the following items:
(1) (document 6C/ADM/5 and Addenda). Collection of contributions of Member States
(2) Draft amendments to the Financial Regula- tions (document 6C/ADM/6).
(3) Salary, allowance and leave system (5C/Re- solutions, 22.22) (document 6C/ADM/10 and Ad- denda). [66] The working party could naturally seek any advice it might need in order to discharge its task. [67] The Chairman opened the discussion on the following addition to the United Kingdom proposal, presented by the Canadian delegation: Finally the Administrative Commission wishes to emphasize that these recommendations refer to 1952 only, and to call the attention of the General Conference COMMISSION to the danger that may follow from an unwarranted expectation that non-recurring funds will always be available to meet shortfalls in annual income. It further requests, as a means of assisting in the discussion of future budgets in this eventuality, that the Programme Commission should adopt a set of principles for the establishment of priorities for the guidance of the Director-General and the Executive Board in the pre- sentation of a draft programme of work to the next and subsequent Sessions of the General Conference. [68] Mr. ERIKSSON (Sweden) seconded the motion, subject to two minor amendments: at the begin- ning of the second paragraph, the word “future” should be deleted, and the words “in future years” added after “budgets”; later, “the Programme Com- mission should adopt” should be amended to “the Programme Commission should consider the adop- tonor. [59] [60] Mr. GIBSON (Liberia) had not previously sup- ported the United Kingdom resolution because it made no reference to priorities, but he was prepared to support it with the addition of the Canadian amendment. The above amendments were adopted. [61] Mr. MORGENSTIERNE (Norway) withdrew the resolution he had presented at the beginning of the meeting in favour of the Canadian amendment. [62] The Canadian resolution, to be added at the end of the United Kingdom resolution, was adopted. [63] The SECRETARY read the following text, to be inserted in the Commission’s report to the Plenary Conference: In addition to the aforementioned recommendations of the Administrative Commission, it will be of interest to the General Conference to be informed of the following recommendations which will be made by the Adminis trative Commission regarding the scale of contributions for the year 1952 aud the currency in which contributions may be paid;
(1) The contribution of the United States of Amer- ica should be fixed at the figure of 33.33 per cent for the year 1952.
(2) Notwithstanding the resolutions adopted by previous sessions of the General Conference regarding the currency in which the contributions of Argentina are dueto be paid, these contributions should be accepted in United States dollars, pounds sterling or French francs. Note. Tt is anticipated, on the basis of the assessments foreseen in the resolution on the scale of contributions for 1952, that the new Member States of Unesco, namely Cambodia, Germany, Japan, Laos and Viet-Nam, will contribute a total of 5.84 per cent of the Budget for 1952. [64] The text was approved. The meeting rose at 6.25 p.m.