ط0 СОМ0 TWELFTH MEETING Tuesday, 3 July 1951, at 10 a.m. Chairman: Mr. Jean Pager (Switzerland) Discussion of the Draft Programme for 1952 (continuation) [document 6C/5 (1)]. Mass Communication. RADIO. Item 6.322. (Written and recorded material for radio broadcasts.) [1] Mr. TERROU (France) paid tribute to the work carried out with regard to radio and films, although those efforts were, in his opinion, still tentative. The French delegation would submit a programme of work in that field before the next session of the Conference. [2] Mr. SCHNEIDER (Director, Department of Mass Communication) agreed that it would be possi- ble to make a total saving of $26,000 under that head. The sum would be made up of: $2,000 saved on one weekly recorded broadcast; $20,000 on the reproduc- ing of broadcasts for national organizations; and $4,000 on the transport of goods. [3] Mr. VICKERY (United States of America) paid tribute to the work carried out by the Department during the past year. While he wished to emphasize the great importance of radio as a means of com- munication, he had no objection to the cut proposed by the Secretariat. [4] The resolution was adopted with a reduction of $26,000 in the appropriation. [6] The CHAIRMAN mentioned that the resolution submitted by Venezuela on the use of broadcasting in fundamental education (document 6C/DR/55) would be taken into account when the work plan was drawn up. FILM. Item 6.323. (Films, sound and silent, dubbed and translated, filmstrips, photographs and exhibitions.) [6] Mr. SCHNEIDER (Director, Department of Mass Communication) explained that it should be possible to make a saving of $15,000 under that heading; the scheme for exhibitions in airport build- ings would be abandoned and consequent savings would be effected on the transport of the equipment required therefor. [7] In reply to Mr. VICKERY (United States of America), the DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that, with the remaining funds under the heading, it would be possible to make the film on teaching about the United Nations mentioned in the chapter on Education. [8] Item 6.323 was adopted, with the appropriation reduced to $131,200. Item 6.3231. [9] Mr. TERROU (France) thought it would be very dangerous for Unesco to co-operate in the organi- zation of international film festivals, as they were esentially commercial in character. The French dele- gation was therefore anxious that the resolution should be deleted in its entirety. [10] Press, RADIO AND FILM. Item 6.3231 was deleted. Item 6.83. [11] [12] The CHATRMAN said that, before finishing its consideration of the chapter on Mass Communication, the Commission would have to give a decision on the draft resolution put forward by the Cuban dele- gation (document 6C/DR/1), proposing that a Re- ception and Information Office should be set up at Unesco House. [13] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL remarked that the Executive Board had not felt able to recommend the adoption of that draft resolution, on account of its budgetary implications. Item 6.33 was adopted without discussion. [14] The draft resolution was not seconded, and therefore lapsed. Item 6.23. [15] Mr. SCHNEIDER (Director, Department of   | | | | | Amer vice) figur     n e t     eey EE Ë wa “+ 7 ‎ال
349 PROGRAMME Mass Communication), reverting to item 6.23, said that, after reconsidering his estimate for the item, he was able to agree that it should be possible to reduce expenditure from $8,772 to $4,300. [16] That proposal was adopted. Rehabilitation Service. Item 7.1. (Assistance, in education etc., to the popu- lation of Member States.) [17] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that the Ex- ecutive Board would, at a later meeting, consider the question of the assistance that Unesco might give to Korea under the 1951 programme. It would also be advisable for the Commission to bear in mind Unesco’s commitments in Korea when it examined the Rehabilitation budget for 1952. [18] Item 7.1 was adopted. Item 7.12. [List of Assistance Projects falling within the scope of resolution 7.1(b).] [19] In reply to Mr. de PALMA (United States of America) Mr. BARGER (Head, Rehabilitation Ser- vice) explained that it was very difficult to give a figure for any individual item in that section. Pre- cise estimates could be given only for the gift coupon scheme and for the work in the Middle East. [20] Mr. de PALMA (United States of America) said that he understood that the appropriation for the item had been reduced from $40,000—as shown in document 6C/5 (I)—to $25,000. He belived that even that sum could be better spent on the gift coupon scheme and that item 7.12 should be deleted for 1952. [21] Mr. MISSINGHAM (Australia) announced that the National Union of Australian Students had agreed to work the gift coupon scheme in Australia during the following year. [22] Mr. BARGER (Head, Rehabilitation Service) agreed that the figure was $25,000. His Service had wished to maintain a sum for direct aid, having found it useful to make small direct contributions as a method of stimulating voluntary organizations to participate in Unesco schemes. He would, however, be prepared to abandon that item and to concentrate on the gift coupon programme, but would ask that the resolution itself should be retained. [23] The resolution was adopted, but without the proposed appropriation, Item 7.13. (Collection of information on the needs of assistance projects, etc.) [24] Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom) proposed COMMISSION IV-12 to reduce the appropriation by $2,000. Although he was fully aware of the great value of the gift coupon scheme, he considered that a greater share in the costs of publicity should be borne by MemberStates. So far as he had been able to ascertain, the intention was that the Secretariat should not merely carry on the scheme but also produce publicity and features adapted to the needs of voluntary agencies. The greater the success of the scheme, the greater would be the volume of material published by the Service and, in consequence, the greater the demands for staff. The Commission should lay down, at that early stage, a policy of increased participation by the National Commissions and of a decrease of direct action by Unesco in the field concerned. Mr. Thomp- son therefore proposed a cut of $2,000 in respect of funds or fees for publicity; he would also like the Budget Committee to be requested to examine the staff position of the Rehabilitation Service resulting from the reduction in direct publicity. [25] Mr. FRANCOIS (France) said that France, which up to then had been a beneficiary under the gift coupon scheme, would soon enter the ranks of the donor countries. However, his delegation could not approve of the United Kingdom proposal, because National Commissions seldom had the financial re- sources needed for undertaking publicity work in connexion with the scheme. The French delegation was therefore opposed to a decrease in the appropria- tion. [26] Count JACINI (Representative of the Executive Board) also asked the Commission to keep the amount estimated by the Secretariat unchanged. [27] Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) Executive Board’s proposal. supported the [28] At the request of the DIRECTOR-GENERAL, the decision on the appropriation for the section was postponed to the second reading. [29] In reply to a remark by Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom), the CHAIRMAN said that it was not within the Programme Commission’s competence to make recommendations to the Budget Committee on the subject of staff. [30] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL mentioned that the United Kingdom delegation’s proposal could be examined during the second reading of the whole Programme and Budget. As the General Committee had suggested, the Programme Commission might then be assisted in its work by the Budget Committee. [31] Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom) accepted that proposal. [32] With the proviso that it would be taken up — e e
1V-12 PROGRAMME again during the second reading, item 7.13 was adopted, with the relevant appropriation. Item 7.14. (Collection of voluntary contributions.) [33] Adopted, with the relevant appropriation. Item 7.15. (Administration of the gift coupon programme as a means of collecting voluntary con- tributions.) [34] Adopted, with the relevant appropriation. Hem 7.10. the Unesco scheme.) [35] Item 7.17. refugees.) (Operation of coupon Adopted, with the relevant appropriation. (Continuation of assistance for Palestine [36] Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) said that the Lebanese delegation, which had submitted a draft resolution on the subject (document 6C/DR/10), was willing to withdrawit, if given an assurance that the statement on the possibility of maintaining the Palestine refugees in the receiving countries, which was political in tone and had appeared in a Unesco document, were also withdrawn. [37] Mr. BARGER (Head, Rehabilitation Service) regretted any impression which might have been created by the Secretariat that Unesco had formed its own policy regarding the ultimate future of refugees from Palestine. There was no suggestion thereof either in the programme or in the documents sub- mitted to the Working Party. Unesco’s task was clearly to stimulate other organizations to offer help in all practical forms. [38] Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) pointed out that it was not a question of an impression gained, but of actual wording used. He was satisfied by the assur- ance given him that the document would be with- drawn, and therefore withdrew his amendment. [39] Mr. ZOOK (United States of America) said that he had had two recent opportunities of seeing the camps in Syria and Lebanon, and that he had never been in contact with any activity more deserv- ing of real support. Nevertheless, the situation was already several years old and, while it was to the credit of Unesco that it had been the first organi- zation to recognize the problem, the position had recently altered substantially. Whereas so far Unesco had been the only international organization able to offer assistance in the field of educational rehabilita- tion, the United Nations Relief and Works Agency now had large funds available for educational as well as for other forms of rehabilitation. The position in COMMISSION 350 Korea was similar: Unesco had been first there also, but was now preparing to hand over responsibility to a central United Nations agency. The United States delegation could, therefore, agree to an appro- priation for the resolution in question, only provided that the whole problem of rehabilitation, including that of financial responsibility, were reconsidered. Only thus could Unesco avoid finding itself saddled with over-large commitments for tasks which were to be carried on by central agencies. [40] Mr. NOUSS (Syria) said that the working party set up to study the programme for educational assist- ance to child refugees from Palestine had ascertained the regrettable fact that only a third of those who were of school-age were receiving instruction. Mean- while the refugee population was increasing. For that reason the working party had submitted an amend- ment to resolution 7.17 which should read as follows: “to continue and develop, in collaboration with the United Nations Relief and Works Agency, the provision of assistance for Palestine refugees”. (Document 6C/PRG/28, page 4). [41] Hussein FAWZY Bey (Egypt) strongly sup- ported the suggestion made by the Syrian represen- tative. [42] Mr. FISCHER (Israel) requested the Secretariat to evolve a scheme to enable the numerous refugees who had found refuge in Israel, and of whom some came from the Middle East, to benefit from Unesco’s work for Middle East refugees. [43] The CHAIRMAN put the resolution to the vote, amended by the addition of the words “and develop”. [44] Item 7.17, as amended, was adopted, with the relevant appropriation, by 22 votes to 9, with
3 abstentions. Item 7.171. (Participation in any further plan of direct assistance.) [45] Mr. BARGER (Head, Rehabilitation Service) explained that the resolution was intended to author- ize Unesco to take immediate action when requested by the United Nations. Activities under that heading would always require special finance and, as Unesco had a very efficient office in New York, Mr. Barger was prepared to forgo the sum of $2,000 for travel. [46] The resolution was adopted, the proposed appropriation being deleted. [47] The CHAIRMAN asked whether the United Kingdom delegation, in the light of the discussions which had just taken place, would be willing to withdraw the proposals contained in document 6C/ DR/5, which went beyond the competence of the
351 PROGRAMME Programme Commission, as they too concerned staff questions. [48] Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom) said that, as there would be a second reading and as the matter would be referred to the Budget Committee, he would withdraw his proposals. [49] In reply to Mr. CHEN (China), Mr. BARGER (Head, Rehabilitation Service) explained that the relations between Unesco and the Special Agency for Korea had not yet been defined. He would there- fore prefer to give no details for the time being. The programme would be financed by the central body, but Unesco would be called upon, within the Agency, to administer the schemes of educational rehabilita- tion. [50] In reply to Mr. STWASARIYANON (Thailand), Mr. BARGER (Head, Rehabilitation Service) ex- plained that one rehabilitation project for Thailand had already been submitted for approval to the Ex- ecutive Board, and that three or four more would be submitted when sufficient information was avail- able. [51] The DIRECTOR-GENERALsaid that the Com- mission, after hearing Mr. Kingsley’s statement at a future meeting, might authorize the Secretariat to use the Working Capital Fund for aid to Korea, and the Executive Board to produce a work plan in con- sultation with the United Nations. General Resolutions. Item 8.11. (Measures to be taken by Member States to organize the collaboration of specialists and to assemble information on matters included in Unesco's programme.) [52] Adopted without discussion. Item 8.12. (Assistance by Member States in finding specialists and obtaining information.) [63] Adopted without discussion. STATISTICS. Item 8.21. (Collection and supply of statistical infor- mation.) [64] Adopted without discussion. Item 8.22. (Collection of statistical information related to Unesco’s programme.) [65] The SECRETARY informed the meeting of the opinion expressed by the Budget Committee, which felt “that the increase of staff in the Statistical Ser- COMMISSION IV-12 vice should be matched by a reduction in consultants’ fees.” The Committee also thought that travel plans should be limited. [56] Mr. RACKHAM (United Kingdom) doubted whether the Statistical Service deserved the high priority accorded to it. It should be borne in mind that statistics which did not relate to specific prob- lems were valueless. [57] Mr. LIU (Head, Statistical Service) explained that, while his Service sometimes received requests for statistics on specific subjects, he was mostly asked to supply statistical information regarding the state of education in general. It was impossible for a statistical service to work satisfactorily on a day-to- day basis; the collection of the basic statistics which would enable the Service to reply promptly to re- quests for information was a long-term operation. Mr. Liu would, however, be prepared to accept a cut of the $2,000 intendedfor the promotion of statistical education. During the previous year that sum had been used as a subsidy for the International Statistical Institute in Calcutta and the Institute had made very good use of the money allotted to it. [58] The resolution was adopted, with a reduction of $2,000 in the appropriation proposed. Item 8.23 (Improvement of the international com- parability of statistics in the field of education, etc.) [69] Mr. LIU (Head, Statistical Service) felt that Unesco’s work on improving the international com- parability of statistics was essential. Without greater homogeneity in the supply of information on the matters with which Unesco was concerned, any advance in statistical study would be difficult. Never- theless, the Secretariat would be prepared to forgo the appropriation for the item, provided the resolu- tion were retained. [60] On the advice of the DIRECTOR-GENERAL, it was agreed that the Conference provided for in the work plan for the resolution should be convened in
1953 (instead of 1952). [61] The resolution was adopted, the proposed appropriation being deleted. PUBLICATIONS (document 6C/PRG/16 and Add. I and II). Item 8.3. [62] Count JACINI (Representative of the Executive Board) presented the Board's report (document 6C/ PRG/16 Add. I). He said that the Board attached great importance to the question of publications. [63] Mr. STODDARD (United States of America)      IV-12 PROGRAMME expressed his appreciation of the work carried out by the Publications Committee which his delegation would like to see enlarged. He proposed the follow- ing three criteria for publications: (i) the contents should be clearly related to Unesco’s purposes; (ii) the publications should be aimed at specific groups of readers; (iii) decisions regarding the method of distribution should be taken before publication. [64] The Director-General should be allowed con- siderable latitude in handling the publications pro- gramme and any authority given under the resolution in question should therefore be permissive. [65] Mr. Stoddard proposed that the Publications Revolving Fund, which amounted to $140,000, should be reduced by about $50,000. The translation and distribution of publications was a task in which it should be possible to interest many Member States and National Commissions, and he suggested that that could best be done if Unesco could employ experts who might devote themselves to securing the co- operation of Member States and National Com- missions in the matter. Finally, Mr. Stoddard was most anxious that the reputation of Unesco as a pub- lishing house should be safeguarded by ensuring that it produced first-rate material only. [66] Mr. DELAVENAY (Head, Documents and Pub- lications Service) said that, in accordance with a resolution passed by the General Conference at its Fourth Session, his Service had used the credits in the Publications Fund only for reprints, which were increasing in number. So far, receipts had almost equalled expenditure, and it would therefore certain- ly be possible to make the deduction suggested by the United States delegation. The United States proposal for increasing liaison staff, with a view to enlisting the co-operation of Member States in the translation of Unesco publications into their national languages, would be examined in relation to the budgetary re- sources available. [67] Item 8.3 and the draft resolution (document
6C/PRG/16, annex XIV) were adopted. [68] The Commission adopted the reports of the Director-General and the Executive Board on publica- tions policy (document 6C/PRG/16, and Adden- dum I). [69] Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) thought he would be expressing the feeling of the Commission in thank- ing Mr. Delavenay for the work he had achieved in connexion with publications. CULTURAL AGREEMENTS (document 6C/PRG/19). Item 8.41. (Deposit of copies of bilateral or multi- lateral cultural agreements concluded by Member States.) [70] Adopted without discussion.
000N Item 8.42. (Transmission by Member States of parti- culars concerning special co-operation arrangements concluded between cultural organizations and insti- tutions in their territory.) [71] Adopted without discussion. Item 8.48. force.) (Publication of cultural agreements in [72] Mr. GARCIN (Legal Service), referring to the report contained in document 6C/PRG/19, mentioned that the Collection of Cultural Agreements, which would shortly be ready, comprised about 230 agree- ments, classified according to subject in such a way as to enable Chanceries preparing new agreements to find precedents without trouble. The rapid growth in the number of those agreements since the last war was encouraging. Nations tended more and more to organize their intellectual collaboration through joint commissions entrusted with the study of every question, and often endowed with sufficient powers to ask the signatory States to enact laws or regula- tions to assist exchanges. The collection was in the form of looseleaf files, which could easily be kept up to date. [73] Mr. RACKHAM (United Kingdom) wished to discontinue the collection and publication of cul- tural agreements during 1952. [74] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL observed that the collection constituted an excellent basis for the draw- ing up of the programme. It was very important to keep that record up to date, and the Director-General was anxious that the Commission should not decide to discontinue the work, which had, moreover, so far been carried out at small cost. [75] Mr. de SPOT (Belgium) pointed out that no compilation of cultural agreements had previously existed. He therefore supported the Director- General’s remarks and was anxious that the work should continue. [76] Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) also supported the Director-General. It was appropriate that an inter- national organization such as Unesco should under- take an analysis of all those agreements and thereby establish principles. [77] The CHAIRMAN asked the Commission's opi- nion on the proposal made by the United Kingdom delegation to delete item 8.43. [78] It was decided, by 32 votes to 2, to maintain item 8.43.
353 PROGRAMME Item 8.44. (Study and analysis of cultural agreements communicated to Unesco.) [79] Mr. GARCIN (Legal Service) explained that it had seemed advisable to prepare a statement, con- tained in a 100-page pamphlet, designed to make the Collection of Cultural Agreements more easily usable by Member States. [80] Item 8.44 was adopted. Item 845. (Report on measures to strengthen and extend intellectual co-operation by means of cultural agreements.) [81] On the proposal of the DIRECTOR-GENERAL the words “at a future session” were substituted for the words “at its Seventh Session”. [82] Item 8.45, thus amended, was adopted. [83] The appropriation of $1,500 for items 8.43 and 8.44 was approved. Report on the Establishment of a Committee to Prepare a Charter of the Duties of the State in regard to Education, etc. (Items 8.771 of the Agenda) (document 6C/PRG/17). [84] Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) explained that the document was the outcome of a memorandum submitted by his delegation at the Fourth Session of the Conference. It was not enough to define cultural rights in vague terms; the duties of the State with regard to education, science and culture needed to be clearly enunciated. Much work had recently been done in that respect by the Human Rights Com- mission of the United Nations, and it was therefore perhaps superfluous to propose a committee of ex- perts. Mr. Sommerfelt believed that the correct pro- cedure would be for the General Conference to ask the Commission on Human Rights to consider the draft charter appearing as Annex I to document 6C/ PRG/17. If the Programme Commission felt that it had had insufficient time to consider the draft charter, it might nevertheless direct the Secretariat to bring the text to the attention of the United Nations, the Specialized Agencies, and Member States. [85] Mr. VITO (Italy) agreed that it was most important that the work of codification of cultural rights should be started as soon as possible. On the other hand, the content of the Norwegian proposal covered a very wide field and the Commission should ask itself to what extent if would be possible to expect the implementation of the recommendations con- tained in the draft Charter. Clearly, the extent to which recommendations could be adopted would depend largely on the cultural evolution of the dif- COMMISSION IV-12 ferent Member States. Mr. Vito would therefore sug- gest that the procedure set out in document 6C/ PRG/17, Addendum I (discussion of the proposals by a working party) should be accepted. The work- ing party should report on the ground covered by the Charter and on what still remained uncovered. It might perhaps be as well for discussions to be limited at first to considering howthe cultural rights of minorities might be guaranteed. Finally, Mr. Vito hoped that the working party would be composed not merely of representatives of various countries but of persons selected for their individual qualifications. [86] Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) warmly supported the Norwegian proposals. [87] Mr. STODDARD (United States of America) associated himself with the Norwegian proposals, which provided an excellent solution for a series of complex problems. His Government would support any measures designed to ensure educational and cultural freedom which did not involve government interference with what was taught. [88] Mr. MISSINGHAM (Australia) said that his National Commission had had no opportunity for a thorough study of the proposals. At first sight, however, there were some with which he was clearly unable to agree. National Commissions and govern- ments should be given an opportunity to comment. [89] Mr. STEINBERG (World Jewish Congress) drew attention to the statement submitted by his organization and circulated as document 6C/11. As Unesco was concerned with the application of the principles expressed in Articles 28 to 31 of the Draft Covenant on Human Rights, formulated during the Seventh Session of the Commission on Human Rights, the World Jewish Congress asked permis- sion to put forward two suggestions. Firstly, it was difficult to see why the application of the gen- eral principle of non-discrimination to the universal human right to education (Article 28, paragraph 2, of the draft Covenant) should be made dependent upon anything but the resolve of the contracting parties to bring that provision into immediate effect. The same appeared to be true of the provisions of paragraph 7 of Article 28. Unesco was the natural protector of cultural rights; it ought therefore to play a more active part than would appear to be anticipated in the draft Covenant. Secondly, it would be possible, under Article 53 (a), for Unesco to initiate a special procedure for the implementa- tion of Articles 28 to 31 on its own responsibility. Mr. Steinberg therefore proposed that the General Conference should set up a working party to study the defence of cultural rights within the frame- work of the draft Covenant on Human Rights, and     IV-12 PROGRAMME to report on the methods of implementation to the Seventh Session of the General Conference. [90] Mr. van der BRUGGEN (Belgium) mem- tioned that the problem was essentially legal, giving rise to some difficulties, as the United States and Italian representatives had shown. Moreover, the existing situation was different from that obtaining when document 6C/PRG/17 had been drawn up, for the United Nations Commission on Human Rights had met since then and had taken decisions relating to the Covenant. [91] In those circumstances it seemed advisable, as the Executive Board proposed (document 6C/ PRG/17, Add. I), to form a small working party to study formal questions and ways of bringing Unesco’s action into line with that of the United Nations, with the object of presenting a practical proposal at the end of the current session of the Conference. [92] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL observed that the Commission was unable to discuss the Norwegian delegation’s proposal. It might perhaps be advis- able for the Commission to instruct the Secretariat to communicate the proposal to Member States and National Commissions, and to consider the results at a later date. [93] Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) agreed to that procedure. [94] Mr. VILLALBA VILLALBA (Venezuela) entirely agreed with the Director-General’s remarks. In his view, the Norwegian delegation’s proposal was too valuable to be overlooked or given mere summary approval. It represented an extremely important undertaking, putting into practice the excellent principle that the interests of international understanding should come before material interests. The action with regard to it proposed by the Director- General should therefore be adopted. [95] The speaker stated that, in Venezuela, the Edu- cation Statute aimed not only at improving the mental and moral standard of schoolchildren and training them for their future work, but also at developing in them the democratic spirit of co-operation, both at the national and the international level. In con- clusion, he urged that the Commission should agree to apply to the Norwegian proposal the procedure recommended by the Director-General. [96] The CHAIRMAN noted that the Commission agreed to adopt the procedure recommended by the Director-General, which was to communicate the proposal made by the Norwegian delegation, for preliminary study, to Member States and National Commissions. COMMISSION Report by the Director-General Concerning the Measures Taken for Placing Economic, Social and Cultural Rights on an International Basis. (Item 8.772 of the Agenda) (document 6C/ PRG/18, Add. 2). [97] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) recalled that, in accordance with a decision taken by the United Nations General Assembly, the Commission on Human Rights had been asked to insert provisions relating to economic, social and cultural rights in the Covenant which it was to prepare. In the course of its session the previous May, the Commission on Human Rights had asked the Specialized Agencies to co-operate with it in drawing up the necessary clauses. [98] Unesco’s representatives at the Commission's session had explained that the texts proposed by them had not been submitted to the General Conference, but that they were in conformity with the spirit of reports previously adopted. [99] The text drawn up by the Commission on Human Rights included a general clause stating that the signatory States acknowledged those rights and undertook to apply them gradually, according to the prevailing conditions and resources. [100] Inthe field of education, the provisions were already beginning to be put into effect. States had undertaken to adopt, within two years from the time they became parties to the Pact, a plan for putting the principle of free and compulsory primary edu- cation into practice. That plan was of considerable importance, and Unesco would have to do consider- able research to help the States prepare for it. [101] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL thought that it would be advisable for the Commission to discuss and approve a draft resolution on that point, in orderto supply him with detailed instructions, which had so far been lacking. [102] Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom) enquired on what authority proposals had been made to the Commission on Human Rights, implying that Mem- ber States should, for example, consider adopting a plan for free primary education within two years. There was no possibility of his delegation’s endorsing a set of suggestions to the Commission on Human Rights that included proposals such as that. Was it proper for the Secretariat to make such proposals to other organs of the United Nations without prior discussion by the General Conference? [103] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL reminded the meeting that the Florence Conference had adopted a resolution instructing him to collaborate closely with the United Nations in drawing up agreements relat- ing to Human Rights. [104] In the absence of precise recommendations from the Conference, the Director-General had not views Annex reserva [108] Kingd into t the C Secret} Unite had as appea    Во ” —
355 : PROGRAMME thought he should be so diffident as to refrain from making any suggestions at all, but he had taken the precaution of pointing out clearly to the Commission on Human Rights that his suggestions were made on his own responsibility; the Commission had ex- pressed its gratitude for his help. The Director- General hoped that the Conference would give its opinion on his attitude, which he thought had been perfectly correct and in accordance with Unesco's interests. [105] Count JACINI (Representative of the Ex- ecutive Board) said that the Board was solidly behind the Director-General in the action which he had taken on his own responsibility without the oppor- tunity of referring to the Board. [106] Mr. MISSINGHAM(Australia) said that, while he appreciated the Director-General's explanation, he shared the misgivings of the United Kingdomdele- gate with regard to procedure. It was not good policy for the General Conference to give the Director- General such vague authority that he needed to make capital decisions without reference to MemberStates. In any event, the Commission on Human Rights was discussing cultural rights and Unesco could there- fore afford to wait until those conversations were completed. The Director-General should not be placed in the position of apparently committing Member States to untenable propositions. [107] Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom) also accepted the Director-General’s explanation without reserve. He was perfectly agreeable to the expression before the Commission on Human Rights of the views set out in document 6C/PRG/18 AddendumI, Annex I, provided it was made clear that such views were those of the Secretariat only and that they had not been endorsed by Member States. If the Com- mission were to approve that document, the same reservation should apply. [108] The DIRECTOR-GENERALasked the United Kingdom representative to be good enough to look into the matter anew. The documents laid before the Commission did not express the views of the Secretariat, but derived from decisions taken by the United Nations Commission on Human Rights, which had asked the Specialized Agencies, in the resolution appearing in document 6C/PRG/18 Add. 2, “to make their observations thereon (i.e. on the Draft Covenant on Human Rights) for the Thirteenth Session of the Economic and Social Council”. [109] As that session would open on 30 July, it was essential that the General Conference should give detailed instructions to the Secretariat represen- COMMISSION IV-12 tatives, taking full responsibility and giving its decision on the principles involved. [110] Mr. STODDARD (United States of America) felt that the Director-General had no alternative but to report to the Commission on Human Rights, as requested by that body. It would be wrong if Unesco’s executive officers were not to act as the Director-General had done. Nevertheless, sugges- tions made by the Director-General on his own re- sponsibility should be clearly identified as such. The rejection or acceptance of document 6C/PRG/18, Addendum 1, article by article, was not within the competence of the Programme Commission. The most that delegations could do without consulting their governments was to express agreement on the general principles. There were certain detailed re- solutions to which the Government of the United States of America would certainly take objection. The Commission might, if it wished, endorse the prin- ciples; other bodies could then discuss the details of application. [111] The CHAIRMAN expressed surprise at the United States representative’s statement that the dele- gates of Member States were not empowered to take decisions on documents dating from 23 and 30 April. [112] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL would be sorry to have to appear before the Economic and Social Council as emissary from a Conference which had refused to examine the draft Covenant on Human Rights. The Specialized Agencies should take a lead- ing part in the enforcement of that Covenant, and the Director-General was therefore anxious that the Com- mission should discuss the matter that very afternoon, should come to a decision upon it, and should give detailed instructions to the Secretariat. [113] Mr. MARROU (France) was disturbed by the turn the discussion had taken. There should be no question of the reservations made by the United Kingdom, Australian and United States represen-° tatives on a constitutional matter being interpreted as indicating disagreement with the Director-General, who had not exceeded the powers conferred upon him by the Florence Conference, and of his therefore being impelled, as he had just said, to excessive diffidence when representing Unesco in the intervals between sessions of the General Conference. [114] The remainder of the discussion was post- poned to a later meeting. The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m.