اللاا COMMITTEE THIRD MEETING Thursday, 21 June 1961, at 10.30 a.m. Chairman: Mr. Tevrik Sacram (Turkey) Draft Amendment to Rule 79 of the Rules of Procedure (continuation) (document 6C/PRO/2, Annex). [1] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) recalled that, at its second meeting, the Committee had made a small working party responsible for the drafting of an addition to the amended Rule 79, proposed by the Procedure Committee. The new paragraph, which would be numbered (3)—while the existing para- graph (3) would become paragraph (4)—would read as follows: Rule 79-3. The Conference may, before taking a decision in this respect, decide to refer the question for ex- amination and report to one of its committees or com- missions. [2] Mr. STONE (Australia) moved the adoption of the new paragraph (3). [3] The draft amendment was adopted. Consideration of the Comments and Obser- vations of Member States on the Regulations Relating to Recommendations to Member States and International Conventions (5C/Reso- lutions, 40.62) (document 6C/PRO/8). [4] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser), in presenting docu- ment 6C/PRO/8, explained the procedure laid down by the General Conference at its Fifth Session for consulting Member States on possible amendments to the regulations adopted under resolution 40.6. He said that most of the suggestions which had reached the Director-General dealt only with amendments of form, or with the possibility of extending the time- limit of one year within which Member States were to send in their comments. With regard to thelatter suggestion, Mr. Saba drew the Committee's attention to the fact that the time-limit would be automatically extended to two years if the principle of biennial sessions of the General Conference were adopted at the current session. [5] In reply to the questions raised by the South African Government, and set out in Annex II to document 6C/PRO/8, Mr. Saba explained that no State was legally bound by the terms of an inter- national Convention which it had not itself ratified; adoption during a session constituted an act by an international legislative body, but the State accepted individual responsibility only when it ratified the Convention in question. Apart from ratification, however, each Member State had two obligations under the terms of Unesco’s Constitution, even if it had voted against the proposed text: it had to submit the convention to its competent authorities, whether or not it was in agreement with the provisions of that convention (Article IV, paragraph 4), and it had to report to the Organization’ on the action taken upon the recommendation or convention (Article VHI). Even if it refused to adhere to the convention, it might be able to introduce certain of the convention's terms into its legislation. [6] Mr. Saba further explained that the regulations adopted under resolution 40.6 did not specify the exact manner in which the State bounditself under the terms of the convention, because the last session of the General Conference had not come to an agree- ment on that point. It was therefore for the General Conference to specify the method to be adopted in each case, so that the precise terms might be incorporated in the convention. [7] Mr. SELFE (Union of South Africa) had no additional points to raise in connexion with the questions put by his Government (document
6C/PRO/8, Annex II). He thanked Mr. Saba for his explanations. Programme of Work. [8] After some discussion on the order in which the meeting should discuss items 6.6, 6.7 and 6.8 of the Agenda, Mr. STONE (Australia) suggested that item 6.7 should be taken first and thatthe Secretariat should be requested to determine whether the Agenda included other inter-dependent items for which a special order would be required. [9] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) pointed out that some delegations—the United States delegation in particu- lar—considered that the question of biennial sessions of the Conference, which seemed the most important, should be dealt with after the Committee had con- cluded its examination of the various amendments t0 the regulations. However, the adoption of the prin- ciple of biennial sessions would involve a complete    PRO CED UNE recasting of the Rules of Procedure and, consequently, of the regulations for conventions. Mr. Saba there- fore wondered whether it would not be wiser to postpone the question of amendments to those regu- lations until it was possible to draft them in final form, particularly as Unesco’s experience in such matters was as yet very short. [10] Mr. EUSTATHIADES (Greece) observed that the system adopted, which was based both on the statutes of the International Labour Organization and on Unesco’s Constitution, had not so far given the expected results. He was in favour of the suggestion that discussion of the subject should be postponed until the next session of the Conference, provided that the delegations which had submitted comments did not deem them to be so urgent that they should be discussed immediately, [11] Mr. CATES (United States of America) pointed out that the order of discussion had been agreed at the Committee’s second meeting. If the Committee were to depart fromthat order, as had been suggested by the Greek delegate, considerable inconvenience might ensue, owing to the absence of some delegates who might have points to raise on item 6.7. [12] Mr. Cates submitted that, although the nature of the changes that would be required as a result of the alteration in the intervals between sessions of the General Conference might be discussed at the current meeting of the Committee, the necessary steps could be taken only by the Seventh Session of the General Conference. The comments which his dele- gation would make in due course were of a kind which would require action by the Seventh Session of the General Conference. [13] Mr. ZEREGA FOMBONA (Venezuela) proposed changing the agenda so that the principle of biennial sessions of the Conference could be discussed as the first item. [14] Mr. TOSCANO (Italy) thought that the Com- mittee should first come to a decision regarding the postponement until the next session of its consider- ation of item 6.8 of its agenda. [15] Mr. CATES (United States of America) main- tained his position and suggested that the Secretariat should be instructed to make any minor changes which might be required as a result of the contem- plated change in the frequency of sessions. He emphasized that the meeting should do all in its power to make it possible for action to be taken at the end of the current session of the General Conference, leaving only the more important changes for consideration at the Seventh Session. [16] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) asked the Committee to decide whether it was possible and advisable to COMMITTEE ХЗ revise the regulations relating to conventions and recommendations during the current session, or whether it was preferable to give the existing system another year’s trial and to ask the Director-General to submit to the Seventh Session draft amendments taking account of the comments of Member States and of the extended time-limit which might follow from the adoption of the principle of biennial sessions. [17] Before adopting a definite position regarding the proposed postponement, Mr. EUSTATHIADES (Greece) said that he would like to have an assurance from those delegations whose governments had sub- mitted comments that they did not regard the items as urgent. [18] Mr. STEPHENS (Canada) pointed out that, according to the order of procedure fixed at the second meeting, the item to which the Committee would proceed,if further discussion of item 6.8 were adjourned, would be number 6.6 which had no direct bearing on the frequency of sessions of the General Conference. He suggested that, if the Com- mittee decided to adjourn further discussion of item
6.8, it should proceed to item 6.6 as planned. [19] Mr. STONE (Australia) explained that his sug- gestion had been made with a view to the orderly conduct of the debates. He had not intended to imply that item 6.7 of the agenda should be taken out of the order of discussion fixed at the second meeting, but only that the question of periodicity should be debated before any related matters were brought forward for consideration. He therefore saw no difficulty in meeting the Canadian delegate’s point of view. [20] Mr. CATES (United States of America), after having heard the explanations given, supported the Australian delegate’s suggestion. [21] Mr. STONE (Australia) then adjournment of the debate on item 6.8. moved the [22] Agreed. Report on the Enquiry into the Forms which Co-operation in the Work of Unesco by Certain States or Non-Self-Governing Territories Might Take. Item 6.6 of the Agenda (5C/Resolutions,
40.7 and 40.73). [23] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) referred to docu- ments 6C/PRO/6 and 6C/PRO/6 Add. 1, containing Member States’ replies on the question, and a state- ment explaining three possible systems, the first of which had been adopted by the Universal Postal Union and the last by the World Health Organization.       PROCEDURE He drew the Committee's attention to a proposal put forward by the United Kingdom Government, in document 6C/PRO/6, that Unesco should adopt the “Associate Membership” system, which was used by the World Health Organization. [24] Mr. WARD (United Kingdom), speaking on his Government’s proposals to modify the Constitu- tion of Unesco in order to provide for the status of Associate Membership for non-self-governing terri- tories (document 6C/PRO/6, pages 7 et seq.), thanked the United States delegation for allowing his delegation to take over the idea of Associate Member- ship, a term which the United States delegation had been the first to use at the Third Session of the General Conference in Beirut. [25] Since the First Session of the General Con- ference, the United Kingdom Government had made a practice of including among the advisers to its delegation a representative of those oversea territories for the conduct of whose external affairs it was responsible. Accordingly, representatives of Jamaica, Nigeria, Ceylon (before that country had assumed control of its foreign affairs) and, on two occasions, representatives of the Gold Coast, had attended General Conferences as advisers to his delegation. The adviser at the session in progress was Enche Othman fromthe Malay States. The United Kingdom Government considered, however, that such indi- rect representation did not suffice. [26] In that connexion, Mr. Ward suggested that the term “non-self-governing territories”, was not entirely appropriate to the territories for the conduct of whose external relations his Government was responsible, since most of them had achieved varying degrees of independence in the conduct of their home affairs. Moreover, every effort had been made to respect their cultural independence and the indepen- dence of their social institutions. It was by reason of that cultural independence that, in his Government's opinion, they should be given an opportunity to participate more fully in the work of Unesco. It was an axiom frequently repeated, but nevertheless true, that Unesco through a body of governments would be able to work effectively only if it were able to strike the imagination of the peoples. For that reason, it was desirable to associate non-self- governing territories with the Organization's work, even if only with the status of Associate Members. It was to that end, and in order that the so-called non- self-governing territories might be able to contribute their efforts and genius to Unesco and receive, in return, the help which they required, that the United Kingdom Government had proposed the creation in the Constitution of the status of Associate Member. [27] Mr. Ward’s Government considered Associate Membership suitable for some British territories, though not necessarily for all. Other Member States holding “non-self-governing territories” might not
690COMMITTEE find that solution appropriate for their territories. It was not his wish or that of his Governmentto thrust Associate Membership upon Member States or their trust. territories. Some “non-self-governing terri- tories” would not be ready for Associate Membership. No legal or moral suasion should be brought to bear on Member States or their “non-self-governing terri- tories” to accept a status which they did not desire. [28] The procedure suggested for the admission of Associate Members was as follows: (a) The Government of the territory should submit an application to the metropolitan Govern- ment of the Member State concerned; (b) If the Government of the Member State approved the application, that Member State should act as sponsor in submittingit to the General Con- ference; : (c) The General Conference would accept or reject the application. Those conditions, and only those, were to be satisfied. [29] Associate Members were to be accorded the rights listed on page 10 of document 6C/PRO/6. They were not to have the right to vote or to have their nationals elected to the Executive Board, such prerogatives being reserved to MemberStates which controlled their own foreign relations. [30] Mr. Ward informed the meeting that 14 of the territories for whose foreign relations the United Kingdom Government was responsible had been consulted on the matter of Associate Membership and, without committing themselves, had expressed interest in the proposal. It was to be noted that the United Kingdom Government could not commit the governments of the territories concerned to make an application. It was nevertheless significant that
14 territories enjoying varying degrees of self-govern- ment had agreed that they had a contribution to make to the work of Unesco. He hoped that, if his proposal were accepted, the General Conference would prove liberal in accepting Associate Members and would welcome their participation. [31] On the question of group membership, Mr. Ward felt that the Secretariat had been over: cautious in drafting the third and fourth paragraphs on page 14. He was convinced that group member- ship would notaffect the status of trust territories in any way. British Togoland was administered as part of the Gold Coast, and the British Cameroons as part of Nigeria, except that the necessary reports were submitted to the Trusteeship Council; but whether or not Nigeria or the Gold Coast applied for Associate Membership would have no effect on the Status of Togoland and the Cameroons. The United Kingdom Government was responsible for the external relations of those territories and would remain so, whether or not the Gold Coast and Nigeria were to become Associate Members of Unesco. Furthermore, there was a precedent for group membership. The        = ( | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
691 PROCEDURE \ Economic Commission for Asia and the Far East had accepted a group of five territories, including Malaya, as a single Associate Member. There had been no repercussions upon the individual status of the five States in question. [32] The suggestion of group membership had been made in order to minimize the difficulties of the smaller territories, some of which felt that they would not, by themselves, be able satisfactorily to participate in or contribute to the work of Unesco. [33] Referring to the suggestion put forward by the United States of America (pages 11 and 12 of docu- ment 6C/PRO/6), Mr. Ward said that he would welcome the provision of a preamble to the draft resolution, defining the rights and obligations of Associate Members of Unesco in the words indicated. [34] Mr. Ward noted the expression of policy announced by the United States Government (page 7, paragraph 2 of the document above-mentioned) and fully agreed with it in principle, He saw some difficulty, however, in elaborating a legal formula providing for the selection of representatives of the indigenous populations, owing to the difficulty of defining the indigenous populations of territories with plural societies, such as Mauritius, Malaya, Fiji and Kenya. Such a formula might have unexpected repercussions among Member States themselves where the “indigenous” population was no longer the domi- СОМ М ттт xX nant one, as indeed was the case in the United Kingdom. [35] There would be no question of the represen- tatives of Associate Members being selected by any other authorities than those of the territory which they were to represent. The financial obligations incurred by the territory in sending a representative would have to be approved by the appropriate legislative council of the territory. That council would have the power of the purse and would be able to prevent the choice of any person unsuited for the post. Mr. Ward considered that, when agree- ment had been reached on the principle, the choice of the representative should beleft to the government of the territory, on the understanding that the best person should be chosen, irrespective of creed, colour, caste, race, religion, sex or any other factor. [36] In conclusion, Mr. Ward reaffirmed his con- viction that the “non-self-governing” territories would not only receive help from Unesco but would make a valuable and enriching contribution. He therefore urged the Committee to approve the United Kingdom proposal and thus offer those peoples an opportunity of participating more fully in the work of the Organization. The meeting rose at 1 p.m. FOURTH MEETING Thursday, 21 June 1951, at 4 p.m. Chairman: Mr. TEvrix SAGLam (Turkey) Report on the Enquiry into the Forms which. Co-operation in the Work of Unesco by Certain States or Non-Self-Governing Territories Might Take. Item 6.6 of the Agenda (5C/Resolutions,
40.7) (continuation). [1] The CHAIRMAN asked the Committee to resume consideration of document 6C/PRO/6. [2] Mr. CELEBONOVIC (Yugoslavia) said that the Yugoslav delegation was sympathetically inclined towards the draft amendment to Article IT of the Constitution, submitted by the United Kingdom, but had two observations to make on questions of principle, and wished to put before the Committee а counter-proposal differing, on two points, fromthe United Kingdom's proposal. [3] His delegation thought it was essential to make a clear distinction between non-self-governing terri- tories and trust territories, as was done in the United Nations Charter, Chapters XI and XII of which laid down different provisions for each of those two categories. [4] With regard to non-self-governing territories, Yugoslavia shared the view of the United Kingdom, but considered that the trust territories were on the way towards complete independence, and that iden- tical treatment for the two categories would not meet the case. Yugoslavia’s proposal therefore con- tained a paragraph under which it might be possible for trust territories to be admitted as full Members. [5] While not suggesting that the favour could be granted to all trust territories, the Yugoslav dele- gation considered that each case should be examined