REPORTS OF mittee’s mandate. He read out Article VIII of the Unesco Constitution, which laid down that each Member State should furnish a periodical report to the Organization. Paragraph 6 of Article IV further provided that the General Conference should receive and consider the reports submitted periodically by Member States as provided by Article VIII. There could be no doubt that questions of both substance and of form were envisaged under Article VIII. [22] Mr. Fayat thought that the point raised by the Turkish delegate might be considered later under item 5 or 7 of the Agenda. He was glad to see that the Turkish delegate signified assent to that sug- gestion. [23] Mr. BRANDT (Switzerland) said the Com- mittee should examine all the reports received, for, to ignore reports sent in late would imply some censure of the States concerned; but he thoughtit would be a waste of time for the Committee to make too detailed a study of the substance of the reports. In his opinion, the Committee's task should be to record the reports and to concentrate chiefly on con- sideration of items 6 and 7 of the Agenda, for- mulating recommendations on the form to be adopted for future reports. In conclusion, the representative of Switzerland asked the Committee to reconsider Turkey's proposal, and to decide to make a general survey of the reports before it. [24] Miss MERCER (United Kingdom) thought it was undoubtedly the task of the Committee to examine the reports from the point of view of both form and content. One of the matters on which the Committee had to take a decision was whether the desiderata formulated by Unesco were realizable and reasonable. Failure to report or lateness in reporting MEMBER STATES might not be due solely to the shortcomings of Member States. [25] Mr. EUSTATHIADES (Greece) explained that he had not wished to question the validity of the Committee's terms of reference; his remark referred to the future, and his purpose had been to recom- mend the Conference to enlarge the Committee, in view of the importance of its work. [26] Mr. Eustathiades agreed with the views expressed by the representative of Switzerland; he, too, thought that the Committee should make a general survey of the reports and, in particular, submit observations regarding the future. [27] Mr. FAYAT (Belgium)stated that, as his coun- try had been one of the first to send in its report, he would not like to be too hard on the others. He pro- posed that a rider should be added to any resolution passed, pointing out that it was important for coun- tries to submit their reports by the deadline, in order to permit of their being translated and circulated to delegations well before the Conference. [28] A vote was taken, and it was decided, by eight votes in favour, none against and no abstentions, to examine all the reports received. [29] It was also decided that the attention of MemberStates should be directed to the importance of submitting their reports in good time. [30] It was further agreed that the decision just taken should not be regarded as constituting a pre- cedent, but that, in the future, reports received after the deadline might be disregarded. The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m. SECOND MEETING Saturday, 23 June 1951, at 3 p.m. Chairman: Mrs. Gerénima Pecson (Philippines) Discussion of the Observations of the Director- General (document 6C/4 - Introduction) and of the Letter from the Director-General containing as an Annex the Plan suggested to Member States for the Establishment of their Annual Reports (document CL/421). [1] and The CHAIRMAN introduced document CL/421 explained that there were essentially two parts to the reports required of States Members: Part I, intended for the general public, and Part II, for Unesco. [2] Mr. TUNCEL (Turkey) thought that plan very satisfactory. He wished, however, to hear any criticisms which the other delegates might have to make on the subject.      ك ي e e e t e f ‏ س و س س س س ا س و و ح ي س ح ت س ب |
753 REPORTS OF [3] Mrs. TAFT DOUGLAS (United States of America) said that the scheme as laid out in the Annex to document CL/421 was difficult to follow, and that a country with as many activities as that she represented found it impossible to assemble the information required in the time available. [4] Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia) remarked that there appeared to be some overlapping between items B (Part I) and 4 (Part Il) of the schedule; he enquired whether the meeting considered both headings necessary. [6] Mr. DARD (Head of the Division of Relations with Governments and National Commissions) said that. the plan put forward by the Director-General was in complete conformity with the resolutions adopted on the report of the Official and External Relations Commission at the Florence Conference
(5C/Resolutions, section V, Annex I). [6] The Special Committee set up in Florence to examine reports of Member States had made a thorough study of the question of the form and contents of those reports. The resolutions drawn up by the Committee on the subject had a double aim:
(1) To enable the General Conference to compare the various reports. Tt had become clear that the reports were being drawn up on the basis of very varying data; whilst some concentrated on general education, others described public opinion with regard to Unesco’s work, and others, again, con- cerned themselves with the implementation of the resolulions, but failed to provide certain essential details. Such differences rendered any comparative study of the reports difficult.
(2) To increase public interest in Unesco’s work. The detailed reports so far placed on sale had scarcely been read at all. The Committee therefore thought that the reports should contain a first part, designed for the general public and written in a free style, perhaps by someone accustomed to writing for the public—a journalist, for example, or an official of the Information Department of some Ministry. It was on that point that not all authors of reports seemed to have understood the Com- mittee's recommendations. [7] With regard to the Liberian delegate's remark Mr. Dard did not think the two parts overlapped. It was in any case essential to begin a report with a rapid general survey. The second part and, in particular, item 4, containing detailed data on the implementation of all the resolutions adopted by the General Conference, would not be of interest to the general public; whereas item B in the first part (description of the main activities undertaken in each country in conformity with Unesco’s pro- gramme) was particularly likely to appeal to it. It had been proposed originally to publish the two MEMBER STATES X1I-2 parts separately. That idea had not been adopted, but it might be reconsidered. [8] Mr. LUCET (France) said that the French delegation approved, as a whole, the Director- General’s remarks concerning the drafting of the reports, and thought it desirable that the reports should follow a general plan. It felt, however, that it might be dangerous to adopt too rigid a scheme or to divide the reports into two parts, one for the public and the other for the Organization. [9] France had not followed the latter recom- mendation in drawing up its report, and had purposely combined the two parts in one. France considered that nothing should be hidden from the public, and the French report had been published in the form of a pamphlet and widely circulated by the National Commission. Moreover, the first part, as planned, ran the risk of being either too vague or too lengthy. As far as France was concerned, for example, the chapter on education could be developed almost indefinitely. [10] The French delegation therefore thought that the plan laid down for the reports should not be too rigid. [11] Mr. EUSTATHIADES (Greece) wondered whether the Committee should not submit its observations on the proposed first part of the report; as proposed, it did not seem to meet with the approval of the most important States. He wondered, too, whether both parts should in fact be published simultaneously. [12] The CHAIRMAN reminded the meeting that it was the Committee’s duty to consider whether the reports before it fulfilled the intentions expressed in the resolutions passed at the Florence Conference. In practice, that meant that the Committee should comment on the extent to which Part I of each report was satisfactory as a means of informing the public of the work accomplished by Unesco, and the extent to which the answers to Part II were useful to the Secretariat. She added that reports were of real value to Unesco only if they were available for distribution to Member States before the General Conference. [13] Mr. FAYAT (Belgium) enquired whether it would not be better to reverse the order of the Parts, so that Part II would become Part I. The part intended for the Organization was directly related to another body set up under the Constitution of Unesco. [14] Mr. EUSTATHIADES (Greece) thought that the Committee should decide first of all whether, in principle, the first part was useful. [15] Mr. TUNCEL (Turkey) thought that the plan        — E E a r a y Ч Н XII-2 REPORTS oF put forward by the Secretariat should be maintained —the first part of the report to serve as an introduction to the second, which would contain detailed information. [16] Mr. BRANDT (Switzerland) thought that the Committee should examine the reports which had been sent in, before formulating observations on the form and content of future reports. [17] The order of the two parts was, in his opinion, of secondary importance. The Committee should consider, first of all, whether the reports should constitute an encyclopaedia of all the work done in the field of education (he did not think that desir- able) or whether they should concentrate on what had been accomplished in the various Member States with a view to promoting international under- standing. [18] Mr. Brandt was of opinion that the reports should be confined to the latter field, which would enable a greater degree of uniformity to be attained. [19] Mr. DARD reminded the meeting that, under Unesco’s basic programme, each department of the Secretariat was to act, among other things, as an information centre. It was therefore Unesco’s duty to collect and disseminate information not only about education, but about science and cultural activities as well. The reports should not be restricted as suggested by the Swiss delegate. The plan contained in document CL/421 provided, under item 2 of the second part, for information on the most important changes in laws and regulations affecting education, science and culture. Each country would have to decide for itself which changes were worth mentioning. [20] Mrs. TAFT DOUGLAS (United States of Amer- ica) explained that a report by her country in con- formity with Part II as suggested would be far too voluminous. Accordingly, her Government had con- centrated on giving an account of the principal activities that had been stimulated by Unesco in the fields of education, science and culture during the past vear. [21] Mr. EUSTATHIADES (Greece) pointed out that the second part of the reports, designed to inform the Organization itself of the activities of Member States, should be confined to Unesco’s pro- gramme. As outlined in document CL/421 it fulfilled that condition. Items 5 and 6, which appeared at first glance to lie outside that field, in fact dealt with the obligations of Governments as Member States of Unesco. The value of the second part was therefore unquestionable. But what was the “real value of item C of the first part, dealing with activities undertaken independently of Unesco’s programme? [22] The CHAIRMAN, referring to page 3 of docu- MEMBER STATES 754 ment 6C/4 Introduction, reminded the meeting that it was clearly the intention of the Director- General that Part I should be treated as an entirely separate account for the general public, and not as a résumé of the more interesting aspects of Part II. [23] Mr. LUCET (France) thought that, whereas resolution 30.21, adopted by the General Conference at Florence, imposed formal obligations on Member States, the same was not true of the plan drawn up by the Director-General in execution of that resolu- tion. That plan constituted only a recommendation, and France, for her part, could not undertake to follow it entirely. It was, in fact, impossible for France to make a complete survey of all educational, scientific and cultural activities; moreover, France preferred that the publication of reports should be left to the discretion of Member States. [24] The CHAIRMAN agreed that the schedule set out in document CL/421 was no more than a suggestion. Nevertheless, resolution 30.212, which requested the Director-General to draw up the schedule, ended with the words “Member States are requested to conform with this plan”. [25] Mr. LUCET (France) explained that the French delegation had no wish to question the Director-General's right to formulate observations, and said that France would conform with Resolu- tion 30.212 as far as possible, but insisted that a certain latitude should be allowed to Member States in drawing up their reports. [26] The CHAIRMAN considered that the Com- mittee was responsible for examining the reports in the light of Unesco’s requirements. It might, therefore, make any recommendations it thought fit, and suggest to the General Conference that the reports should take any form it considered desirable. [27] Mr. FAYAT (Belgium) agreed, but added that it was evident that the discussion could not be carried further at that point, and that the reports should be studied before consideration was given to any observations that might be formulated. [28] Miss MERCER (United Kingdom) believed that the adequacy of the plan should be judged by the extent to which Member States had succeeded in following it. It would therefore be necessary to study the reports before commenting on the schedule proposed by the Director-General. [29] The CHAIRMAN then summarized the points that she considered should be borne in mind by the Committee when reading the reports, and suggested that it should move on to a consideration of the report of the Special Committee set up by the Official and External Relations Commission at the Fifth w m     mi WOT rep) tha not Еха: askin up a Repo
755 Ero RTE o'r Session (5C/Resolutions, Annex 1, page 118). [30] The Chairman stressed the Committee's responsibility for ensuring that the reports of Member States were in the best possible form, and asked whether the meeting agreed that the structure of its final report should be on the lines of that of the Special Committee. Section V, [31] With regard to the form of the report, Mr. LUCET (France) thought that the Committee could have complete confidence in the Rapporteur who, besides being familiar with Unesco’s work, was also a distinguished legal expert. [32] Mr. EUSTATHIADES (Greece) was deeply touched bythat expression of confidence, but thought it better, all the same, that the Committee should, at the conclusion of the discussion, consider what form the report should take. [33] Mr. DARD thought it difficult for the Com- mittee to proceed any further before having read the reports submitted to it. [34] Mr. Dard suggested that the Committee should ask the General Conference, before dispersing, to appoint the members of the Committee which would be meeting during the next session to examine the reports of Member States; the delegations interested would then be able to study those reports before the Conference opened. [35] Mr. SMITH (United States of America), replying to the Chairman, suggested that in order that all the reports should be read (including those not yet printed), it would be necessary for the Com- MEMBER ST XIT-3 mittee to divide into teams. He proposed six criteria by which the reports should be judged, viz.:
(1) The degree to which each report conformed to the requirements set out by the Director-General.
(2) The extent to which emphasis was placed on the work of the National Commission, or on the general cultural activities of the Member State.
(3) The readability of Part I (intended for the public).
(4) Length.
(5) Date of submission.
(6) The extent to which the MemberState appeared to have been carrying out the resolutions of the Florence Conference (either recommending specific action to Member States or providing opportunities for co-operation with Unesco). [36] The last criterion, however, raised questions of content, as it involved an evaluation of the work accomplished by Member States. [37] Mr. BRANDT (Switzerland) accepted that proposal, but pointed out that there was a technical difficulty—that of translation. The Committee had before it a certain number of reports which had not been translated; and those drawn up in Spanish, in particular, would be difficult for certain members of the Committee to examine. [38] The CHAIRMAN suggested that the members of the Committee should divide into small groups, according to language. [39] Five groups were formed, and the reports were divided up. The meeting rose at 6 p.m. THIRD MEETING Tuesday, 26 June 1951, at 10.30 a.m. Chairman: Mrs. GERÓNIMA PECSON (Philippines) Examination of the Reports of Member States. [1] The CHAIRMAN declared the discussion open, asking delegates to bear in mind the criteria drawn up at the previous meeting for the study of the Reports of Member States. [2] Mr. LUCET (France) pointed out that the working party composed of the delegates of France, Greece and Syria had been puzzled about the meaning of the sixth criterion adopted for the study of the reports, concerning the implementation by Member States of the resolutions of the General Conference. The working party wondered whether the Committee was expected to pass judgment on the form or on the contents of the report, to estimate the value of the report as a statement, or of the activity it described. In view of the uncertainty on that point,