449 [62] In view of Mr. Harper-Smith’s observation, Sir Ben THOMAS (United Kingdom) proposed that the clause should be deleted from the resolution. Consideration of the Request from the Govern- ment of Iraq for a Reduction of its Contribu- bution—Item 9.4.2.1 of the Agenda. [63] Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) read a letter which had been received by the Director- General from the Government of Iraq, requesting that consideration of the reduction of its contribu- tion to Unesco should be placed on the Agenda of the General Conference. [64] Mr. SEYDOUX (France) proposed that the Iraqi Government's request should be referred to the working party. [55] That procedure was adopted. Methods of Financing the Budget for 1952— Supplementary Item of the Agenda. [56] Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) said that the Secretariat required the opinion of the General Conference in the matter. Certain sources of income existed outside the regular Budget: SECOND АМ ООВ АЛСУ К COMMISSION VII-2
(1) The contributions of new Member States for
1951, which would result in an addition of $280,000 for the year.
(2) The miscellaneous income of the Organi- zation. It had not previously been the policy to estimate that income before the end of the financial year, but the Director-General now proposed to do so—in pursuance of the United Nations policy—and to use the money to help finance the budget for the following year.
(3) The cash surplus which it was thought would result from liquidation, within the statutory two- year period, of all 1949 obligations. That was ex- pected to total $60,000. [67] The total cash surplus available at the end of 1951 would, therefore, be $440,000. [68] In reply to Mr. SEYDOUX (France), Mr. HAR- PER-SMITH said that arrears of contribution for 1950 amounted to $964,152, [59] Mr. TAYLOR (Deputy Director-General) felt it would be more useful to continue the discussion of the matter after the working party had reported and a decision had been taken on the scale of contri- butions for 1952. He proposed the adjournment of the meeting to enable the working party to meet. [60] Agreed. The meeting rose at 11.55 a.m. MEETING Friday, 22 June 1951, at }.30 p.m. Chairman: Baron van der STRATEN-WAILLET (Belgium) Scale of Contributions of Member States in
1952—Item 9.4.2 of the Agenda (continuation) (document 6C/ADM/3). Submission of the Working Party's Report. [1] Mr. HOCKIN (Canada), Chairman of the Working Party, said that the Working Party had been requested to report on the following five points: [2] (1) The amountof contribution of the United States of America in 1952. The Working Party had been able to give only à short time to that matter and had not succeeded in reaching complete agreement; it therefore requested the full Commission to discuss the question. [3] (2) Special reductions granted in the past to certain Member States. On that point too the Working Party had reached no conclusion, [4] (3) The question of per capita limitations. The Working Party had agreed to accept, as the objective of the Organization, the principle of the per capita ceiling proposed by the Canadian dele- gation. The Secretariat had accordingly proposed an amendment to paragraph 1 of the resolution on page 5 of document 6C/ADM/3; that amendment would be read at a later stage. [6] (4) Assessments on certain Member States of Unesco not Members of the United Nations, and requests for special reductions.    ADMINISTRATIVE The Working Party had approved in principle the resolution proposed by the Director-General, but had felt that the discussion of individual contributions should take place in the full Commission. [6] With regard to special requests for reductions, the Working Party suggested that the cases of Austria and Hungary should be discussed in detail, together with those of other non-Member States of the United Nations. [7] (5) Special requests for reductions. (a) China. China’s request was not for a reduc- tion in assessment, but that Unesco should accept token payments to be applied against assessments. China’s communication also involved a request con- cerning voting rights, which was to be discussed by another organ of the General Conference. [8] (b) Iraq. Full agreement had been reached in the Working Party, and the delegate of Iraq had withdrawn his original request. [9] (c) Japan. Japan's request concerned her original assessment and would be discussed together with contributions of other non-Member States of the United Nations. [10] Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) read the amendments proposed by the Working Party, to the resolution on page 5 of document 6C/ADM/3, viz.: [11] Paragraph 1. The resolution would remain unchanged down to the end of sub-paragraph (iii); a new sub-paragraph (iv) would then be added, to read: The acceptance, as an objective, of the principle that, in normal times, the per capita contribution of any Member should not exceed the per capita contribution of the Member which bears the highest assessment and that, as world conditions permit or as new Members are admitted, the General Conference should modify its scale of contributions to bring this principle into effect. The former sub-paragraph (iv) would then become sub-paragraph (v). [12] Paragraph 2. The word “as determined bythe United Nations Committee on Contributions” should be deleted, and the following words added at the end: “and, after discussion in the General Con- ference, these percentages shall be fixed for the year
1952 as follows: . . .” [13] Paragraph 4. Sub-paragraph (a) had been accepted in toto by the Working Party. Sub-para- graph (b) was amended as follows: the words “(as determined by the United Nations Committee on Contributions)” were deleted, and a new sentence was added at the end: “These percentages shall be as indicated in paragraph 2 above.” [14] After thanking members of the Working Party, the CHAIRMAN suggested that the statement just made should be discussed point by point. [15] That procedure was adopted.
450COMMISSION (QUESTION OF THE CONTRIBUTION OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. [16] Mr. HOCKIN (Canada), Chairman of the Working Party, explained that, during the Working Party’s brief discussion on the subject, the United States delegation had expressed the view that, when the Organization's income was increased by the admission of new Member States, the increase should be applied to a reduction in the United States’ con- tribution, as was done in the case of all other Member States, bringing that contribution down to
33.33 per cent. [17] Some delegations had not felt that they could accept the reduction of the United States’ contribu- tion in 1952, and had expressed the desire that it should remain at 35 per cent for that year. Another delegation had suggested a gradual reduction of the United States’ contribution over a certain number of years. Others had expressed the view that the matter could not be decided until the budget ceiling had been fixed and it could be seen what effect the reduction of the United States’ contribution would have upon the contributions of other Member States. They had pointed out that an immediate decision on the United States’ contribution might have an adverse effect on the decision regarding the budget ceiling. [18] The Working Party had been unable to reach agreement on that point. [19] Opening the discussion, the CHAIRMAN asked delegates to speak on the three proposals before them: immediate reduction of the percentage of the United States’ contribution to 33.33 per cent; pro: gressive reduction until that figure was reached; postponement of the reduction until a later time. [20] Mr. BAZILE (Haiti) recalled the enthusiam with which the Conference had received the Direc- tor-General’s report and how all delegates had praised Unesco’s work. He feared that the requests for a reduction in their contributions made by cer- tain States might oblige the Organization to adopt 4 static policy, thus losing the dynamism which the Director-General considered so important. Although the world’s economic instability might make it impossible for States to increase their contributions, every effort should be made at least to keep them at the existing level. Mr. Bazile therefore requested the United States delegation to reconsider its proposal. [21] Mr. INGRAM (United States of America) thought there was some element of confusion in any discussion on the scale of contributions: it was not a question of the dollar contribution of any country, but of the percentage of contribution to whatever budget ceiling was adopted. If the United States had its proportionate share in the contributions from new Member States, its contribution would be reduced
451 ADMINIS TR TIVE 0 0 ‎را К VII-2 to less than 33.33 per cent; his delegation was not even asking for that, however, but only that the contribution should be brought down to 33.33 per cent at a time when such a reduction was made possible by the admission of a number of new Mem- ber States. It would be most unfortunate if Unesco, after expressing its desire, for several years, to reduce the. United States’ contribution to its normal percent- age, should fail to take advantage of the opportunity offered. [22] Mr. van DALSEN (Union of South Africa) thought it perfectly reasonable to reduce the United States’ contribution to 33.33 per cent, provided the reduction was offset by contributions from new MemberStates; if, however, it were not offset, the United States’ contribution should be reduced only to the extent to which the reduction was offset by new contributions. [23] Sir Ben THOMAS (United Kingdom) expressed his appreciation of the attitude of the United States, which had displayed great generosity in sustaining the Organization throughits early and difficult years. The decision which the Conference was now called upon to take was by no means a sudden decision; the matter had been discussed over the past four years, and the United States had long ago given notice that it would be working progressively towards a 33; percentage. Nowthat the time had come to take a decision and circumstances were favourable to the reduction, the United Kingdom delegation was surprised to see that some delegations seemed to think that the decision could be postponed indefi- nitely. [24] Sir Ben Thomas therefore proposed the following motion: That, in accordance with the principle that no one Mem- ber State should contribute more than one-third of the total budget of the Organization, the assessment for the United States of America in 1952 should be 33.33 per cent. [25] Mr. BENDER (Netherlands), recalling that his delegation had supported proposals for a reduction in the United States’ contribution in previous years, seconded the United Kingdom motion. [26] Mr. de LACHARRIERE (France) recalled that the French delegation, at previous sessions of the Conference, had agreed to the principle of fixing the maximum contribution of any one Member State and the proposal to reduce the United States’ contribution gradually to 33.33 per cent. After speaking to various people, however, he was convinced that it Was impossible to persuade the United States dele- gation to agree to a gradual reduction, and he would therefore not oppose the motion of the United King- dom delegation. [27] Mr. KIRPAL (India) stated that his delegation was in full agreement with the views expressed by the United States delegation. The Organization was already committed to reducing the United States’ contribution to 33.33 per cent as soon as cir- cumstances permitted. He therefore supported the proposal that the reduction should be made at the current session. [28] The United Kingdom proposal was supported by Mr. de CLEMENTI(Italy) and Mr. PARRA PÉREZ (Venezuela). The latter wished to join whole- heartedly in the expression of thanks to the United States of America for its generosity to Unesco. Mr. Parra Pérez considered not only that it would be fair to accede to the United States’ request, but that it was essential to do so, since it was not a request for a reduction but a request that the per- centage of the United States’ contribution should be assessed at a figure which it was the Administrative Commission’s duty to accept. [29] The CHAIRMAN took a vote on the United Kingdom proposal that the United States’ contribu- tion to Unesco’s budget for 1952 should be reduced to 33.33 per cent of the total contributions. [30] The motion was adopted, by 23 votes in favour, 1 against and 1 abstention. [31] The CHAIRMAN asked the Chairman of the Working Party to inform the Commission of the conclusions reached by the Working Party on the subject of the special percentages granted in the past to Austria and Hungary. ASSESSMENT OF STATES NOT MEMBERS OF THE UNITED NATIONS. [32] Mr. HOCKIN (Canada), Chairman of the Working Party, recalled that the Working Party had suggested that the cases of Austria and Hungary should be considered together with those of other Member States of Unesco, not Members of the United Nations. [33] Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) agreed that the two questions could be taken together. In the past, previous sessions of the General Conference had granted special percentages to Austria and Hun- gary, and the Sixth Session of the Conference had to decide whether that privilege should continue. At the same time, all Member States of Unesco, not Members of the United Nations, were in a somewhat unfair situation, since they had no opportunity of defending their positions within the United Nations. Document 6C/ADM/3, Addendum I, showed the theoretical percentages adopted by the United Nations Committee on Contributions for new Member States and States which were Members of Unesco but not Members of the United Nations; it also gave a com- دونما سو س ج س ا ي ج I ‏ مجم ي و ي س ا انجح o l i e ‏ E E ا ل ‎ N e i i       VII-2 parison with the percentages which had been applied by Unesco for 1951. The figures indicated were the theoretical percentages of Member States, based on the United Nations scale, but they would have to be adjusted to the Unesco scale, taking into consi- deration the factors mentioned in paragraph 1 of the resolution on page 5 of document 6C/ADM/3. [34] The CHAIRMAN proposed the Commission should consider each case separately, deciding, on the basis of the document just distributed (docu- ment 6C/ADM/3 - Addendum 1), what each State's rate of contribution should be in 1952. [35] Mr. de CLEMENTI(Italy) reminded the Com- mission that the Italian Government had expressed reservations regarding the scale of contribution applied to Italy in 1951. The Executive Board had considered the problem, but the final decision had been left to the General Conference, which had not yet expressed its opinion. [36] Mr. ZEISSL (Austria) asked for more time to study the figures in document 6C/ADM/3, Adden- dum I, which had only just been distributed. He therefore requested that the discussion of Austria's percentage should be postponed until the next meeting. [37] The CHAIRMAN thought that the Commission could but accede to the wish expressed by the dele- gate of Austria that consideration of his country’s case should be deferred until the following day. [38] The Commission approved the percentage of
0.04 for Cambodia and 0.15 for Ceylon. [39] The CHAIRMAN asked the Comptroller to explain why two figures were quoted for certain countries. [40] Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) explained that, where two figures were given, the United Nations Committee on Contributions had suggested that a percentage between the two figures should be adopted. The Administrative Commission was re- sponsible for deciding upon an exact figure. The practice in the past had been to accept the lowest figure, and that had been done for certain Member States in 1951, but the Commission was, of course, entirely free. [41] Mr. BILLY (France) pointed out that, in cal- culating the figures before the Commission, account had been taken of the existing scale, in which the United States’ percentage was higher than the figure just approved by the Commission for 1952; that would inevitably affect all the figures proposed for the financial year concerned. ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION 452 [42] The CHAIRMAN took a vote on the figure of
3.25 per cent for Germany and 0.05 per cent for Jordan. [43] Those figures were approved. [44] With regard to Hungary, Mr. KRSTIC (Yugo- slavia) did not think that the country’s economic situation justified its request for a reduction. He explained that he was judging from the discussion which had taken place in the Executive Board, and concluded by proposing the adoption of the higher percentage, i.e. 0.40 per cent. [45] Sir Ben THOMAS (United Kingdom) proposed that the matter should be referred to the Working Party, together with the cases of Austria and Japan, which were in a similar situation. The Working Party might work out some general principles for the assessment of those States. [46] The CHAIRMAN observed that the proposed procedure would make it necessary for the Working Party to meet again to consider the cases of Austria, Hungary and Japan. It would have to meet before the Administrative Commission’s next meeting. [47] That procedure was adopted, and it was decided that the Working Party would meet at
9.30 a.m. on 23 June 1951. [48] The CHAIRMAN opened the discussion on the case of Italy. [49] Mr. de CLEMENTI (Italy) found it difficult to discuss a figure without knowing on what basis it had been calculated. The case in point was that of a country which was a Member of Unesco or of another Specialized Agency but not a Member of the United Nations. He was sure that the scale had been worked out with great care, after consultation with the United Nations Committee on Contributions, but it should be accepted that a country had a right to know the technical reasons which had led the Com: mittee to assess it at a given figure. The table con- tained in Annex I to document 6C/ADM/3, on page?, gave the national income per head in Italy as $235, whereas, according to the calculations of competent Italian technical bodies, that income amounted to only $227. Finding it difficult to defend Italy's cause without further data, Mr. de Clementi proposed the following alternative solutions: (a) that the scale should be discussed in Unesco's General Conference; or (b) that the discussion should take place in the United Nations Committee, and that countries con: cerned should be allowed to send representatives to present their point of view and take part in the debates. The rate applied to Italy had risen from
1.64 per cent to 2.25 per cent, which was a large increase for a country suffering, as everyone knew, Ж a — — o c ] Ú ] o o o o o
453 ADMINTSTRATIVE from financial and economic difficulties. That was why the Italian Government had requested the Ex- ecutive Board to postpone the execution of the measure. Mr. de Clementi made the same request to the Administrative Commission, namely, that no steps should be taken to apply a higher rate until the United Nations Committee on Contributions, in agreement with an Italian representative, had fixed a rate of contribution acceptable to both parties. [50] Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) pointed out that the figures given in document 6C/ADM/3, Annex I, which had formed the basis for Italy’s assessment in 1951, had been approved by the United Nations Committee on Contributions, taking account of the same factors as had been applied to other Member States. All assessments had been made on a common basis. [61] Mr. de CLEMENTI (Italy) asked whether, in the case of Member States of the United Nations, the necessary statistics were established in collaboration with the countries concerned or drawn from outside sources, as in the case of non-Member States of the United Nations. [52] Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) said that he could not answer Mr. de Clementi’s question without referring to the United Nations Committee on Contributions. It was evident, however, from the General Assembly’s resolution, reproduced on page 2 of Annex IT to document 6C/ADM/3, that Member States were expected to provide the information called for under paragraph 2 of that resolution. In paragraph (c) of the preamble, however, it was stated that the Committee on Contributions needed more adequate statistical data for its work. [63] The CHAIRMAN believed that the point raised by the delegate of Italy had already given rise to criticism; some procedure should be worked out whereby Members and non-Member States of the United Nations could be placed on the same footing. He hesitated to put Ttaly’s case to the vote. [54] Mr. BRANDT (Switzerland) also thought it desirable that States which were Members of Unesco but not of the United Nations should be able to express their point of view, and he warned the Com- mission against the danger of assessing economically prosperous countries at too high a figure. The psy- chological factor should be taken into account. [55] The CHAIRMAN closed the debate by asking the Working Party to find a formula for the coun- tries which were Members of Unesco but not of the United Nations. [56] The Commission adopted the percentages pro- posed for Korea (0.16), Laos (0.04), Monaco (0.04) COMMISSION VII-2 and Viet Nam (0.10). The case of Switzerland was referred to the Working Party. QuESTION of “Per Carita” LIMITATIONS. [57] The CHAIRMAN observed that items 2 and 4 had been dealt with provisionally. With regard to item 3, agreement had been reached on the principle that the per capita contribution of any Member State should never exceed the per capita contribution of the Member bearing the highest assessment. [58] The Commission approved the principle, on condition that it should not be applied in 1952. SPECIAL REQUESTS FOR REDUCTIONS. [59] Mr. HOCKIN (Canada), Chairman of the Working Party, recalled that China had requested the right to make a token contribution without any change in her assessment. The Working Party had taken note of the request, but had felt that it was for the full Commission to take a decision. The question of China's right to vote would be considered by another organ of the Conference. As he had already stated, the Iraqi delegation’s request had been withdrawn. ADOPTION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION. [60] The CHAIRMAN observed that, as the Com- mission had already reached agreement on the two matters mentioned, it only remained for it to take a decision on the draft resolution in paragraph 10, on page 5 of document 6C/ADM/3. [61] The Commission adopted the following deci- sions with regard to the amendments proposed by the Working Party to the resolution on page 5 of document 6C/ADM/3. [62] Paragraph 1, as amended, was adopted. [63] Paragraph 2 of the resolution was held over until receipt of the Working Party’s report on the assessments of Austria, Hungary, Italy, Japan and Switzerland. [64] In accordance with the Commission’s earlier decision, paragraph 3 was adopted with the insertion of the figure 33.33 per cent. [65] Paragraph 4 was adopted, with the amend- ment to sub-paragraph (b) proposed by the Working Party. [66] Paragraph 5 was adopted without change. The. meeting rose at 6.20 p.m.