PL ENARY MEETINGS TENTH PLENARY MEETING Saturday, 23 June 1951, at 10 a.m. President: later: Sir S. RADHAKRISHNAN (India), Mr. Howranp SARGEANT (United States of America) CONTENTS Discussion of the Director-General's by the delegates of Indonesia, China, New Zealand and Iraq Reply by the Director-General . Report (conclusion). Canada, Speeches Union of South Africa, Consideration and adoption of the supplementary report of the Cre- dentials Committee Discussion of the Director-General's Report (conclusion). [1] The PRESIDENT — The meeting is called to order. We resume the discussion of the Director- General's Report. The Head of the Indonesian Dele- gation will now speak. [2] Mr. SARDJITO (Indonesia) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, honourable dele- gates, Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, as the representative of one of the youngest Member States of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, I should like to take this opportunity to say a few words to you on behalf of the Indonesian delegation. I feel I must make my speech as short as possible, since other delegations have already expressed their views at length and have made constructive remarks on the Annual Report of the Director-General. [3] The Indonesian delegation would be failing in its task if it did not, on this occasion, express its heartfelt congratulations upon the achievements of the Director-General over the past year The edu- cational programme—as outlined by the Director- General—is to us especially interesting, since it is in line with the programme my Government wishes to carry out in this field. One important part of it, the fight against illiteracy, has been and is being dealt with by my Government with the utmost energy. In this respect, I gratefully mention how much we owe to the Unesco Technical Assistance Programme as applied to us. [4] I should like, Mr. President, to bring to the fore one point concerning our efforts to help carry out the Unesco programme. I should like to draw your attention to the fact that my country is still facing numerous difficulties and has to solve many problems which are the inevitable consequence of the historic events which occurred in my country between 1942 and 1949. Our people have suffered many losses—spiritual as musch as material—and in the gigantic work of reconstruction which my Government is now undertaking, we are in a position to realize the true value of Unesco’s Technical Assistance Programme as applied to Indonesia. [6] I regretfully add that the unfavourable political atmosphere which once again is the consequence of the transition period we have still to go through, places an additional burden upon us. Nevertheless, we are convinced that the Unesco representatives in our country are conscious of the importance of their task, and this will make them more under- standing of our shortcomings and the problems we have to overcome; thus they will be able to adapt themselves to local standards. [6] As for Unesco’s programme, the promotion of world peace and the safeguarding of human rights, allow me to say a few words on the fundamental principles of the Indonesian State. Indonesia has adopted the postulates of Pantcha-Sila as its five basic principles, namely, belief in God, national consciousness, sovereignty of the People, humanity and social justice. These principles, Mr. President, reflect the ideals for which Unesco stands. We will therefore do our utmost to promote these ideals of Unesco without neglecting the character and realities of the Indonesian community. On the other hand, we fully realize the difficulties which Unesco encounters in the attainment of its ideals. Werealize that our goal is to prepare for the better world of the future. Although our minds are not sufficiently clear upon how we are to reach our goal, and while we are aware that the world of today is torn between conflicting interests which of necessity must hamper the lofty aims of Unesco, yet we must unhesitatingly begin to lay the foundations for the attainment of mutual understanding and peace. Indonesia con- siders it a great honour to be able to contribute its modest part towards building up, together with the e e , e N A W m y o i     т а н , | | | ض ؤ | | || | | | | | | | | | | | | | | [
141 PLENARY great family of free nations, this common edifice of . mankind. [7] The PRESIDENT — The delegate of Canada. [8] Mr. E. D’Arcy McGREER (Canada) — Mr. President, Mr. Director-General, fellow-dele- gates, ladies and gentlemen; I feel sure that you will share the disappointment and regret of the Canadian delegation at the absence from this Con- ference of the esteemed leader of our delegation, Mr. Victor Doré, whose progress towards recovery you will be glad to hear is such that we may expect to see him here, if not at an early date, at least during the closing days of the Conference. Pending his return to the leadership of the Canadian dele- gation, there are a number of points concerning the Report of the Director-General which, in keeping with the spirit of the Conference, I shall touch upon only briefly. [9] We, of the Canadian delegation, are grateful to the Director-General for his report on the acti- vities of the Organization from April 1950 to the beginning of May 1951. In this Report we have a statement of the resources at the disposal of Unesco and of the tasks which, on the eve of the Organi- zations’s sixth anniversary, lie within its reach. In addition to this excellent record of Unesco's contri- bution to the improvement of international relations in the fields of education, science and culture, however, I should like to recall to the attention of the General Conference the great advance registered by Unesco at its Fifth Session, held at Florence, through a re-statement of its basic programme on the one hand, and, on the other, the elaboration of what we hope will definitely prove to be a sound: annual programme which may vary from year to year according to the urgency of particular problems. [10] In our opinion, this change constitutes an important step towards the maturity of our Organi- zation and as such deserves more notice than it has perhaps received. We also recognize the great care with which the accounts and estimates of Unesco have been presented by the Secretariat and we should like to avail ourselves of this opportunity to commend the administrative management and budget staff of Unesco for their diligence, their efficiency and their accuracy. [11] These achievements of Unesco, which are in large measure due to the energy of the present Director-General, should not, however, conceal the shortcomings of the Organization in other respects. I refer particularly to the need for economy in Unesco’s operations, and in this connexion note with satisfaction the extent to which the Secretariat has in the course of last year effected the administrative economies called for by the General Conference. The programme of Unesco is approved by the General Conference, and once it goes to the Secre- tariat for implementation, fellow-delegates will agree MEETINGS I1-10 that the sum made available for each item of the programme is usually properly expended. It is the view of this delegation, however, that it is not in the execution of the programme so much as in its prepa- ration that savings could be effected. Accordingly, the Canadian delegation wishes to stress the importance of limiting the expansion of Unesco operations in new fields in order to devote more attention to the projects already under way. It is of the first impor- tance to dispel the impression of diffuseness and dispersion which has gained some credence in the minds of the public. Our duty must be to place considered emphasis on a number of basic activities of the Organization. The risk of undesirable dis- persion will, I feel, be considerably reduced, and sympathy and support from outside gained, if the General Conference establishes a reasonably con- servative budget ceiling for the ensuing year. [12] Marked progress has been made in the work of Unesco since a system of programme priorities was introduced at the Third Session of the General Conference, held in Beirut in 1948. We com- mend the continuation and development of this initiative, and in this connexion I should like to recall that the Canadian delegation at the Fifth Session, conscious of the necessity for an organi- zation of this kind to demonstrate its concentration of purpose, introduced a proposal on “the selection of central Unesco themes”, which was designed to invest the Director-General with authority to deter- mine an order of priorities among the various pro- jects singled out for discussion. Our views on the value of this procedure have been strengthened by the fact that the criteria adopted by the Economic and Social Council for the establishment of priorities in the programmes of the United Nations and Specialized Agencies have been placed on the agenda of the Programme and the Official and External Relations Commissions. [13] Proper co-ordination of the activities of the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies necessarily plays an important part in carrying out a programme as diversified as that of Unesco. That some encouraging steps in the right direction have already been taken by Unesco is evident from the Director-General’s Report. It is the hope of my delegation that, when the estab- lishment of a network of fundamental education centres comes up for consideration by the Pro- gramme Commission, delegates will bear in mind the project’s close connexion with the United Nations programme of technical assistance for the advancement of under-developed regions. To act otherwise would be to ignore the fact that the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies concerned in this project (the World Health Organization, in the field of social welfare, nutrition and standards of health; the Food and Agriculture Organization, as regards agricultural expansion; the International Labour Organization, in relation to the development
11-10 PLENARY of technical skills and skilled manpower) have in fact co-operated with Unesco in working out the plan and are prepared to give it, in the words of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, “the fullest support at all stages of its execution”. [14] In closing, Mr. President, I should like to say how wide-spread was the satisfaction in my country that the International Seminar on the Teaching of Geography, sponsored and organized by Unesco, was held in Canada last summer. During the year ahead, the Canadian Government will be happy to respond to the request of the Director-General for its active co-operation in conducting a survey of the Canadian Farm Forum radio broadcasts, with a view to determining how far other countries may adapt them for their adult education projects. We feel that we can be justly proud of our achievements in this field and we shall derive great satisfaction from any benefits which Unesco and its Member States may draw from our experience. In this field, as in all others, Canada will continue to offer Unescoits full and active co-operation. [15] The PRESIDENT — The Head of the South African delegation. [16] Mr. H. T. ANDREWS (Union of South Africa) — Mr. President, Mr. Director-General, fellow-dele- gates, ladies and gentlemen, after this full and com- prehensive debate, I am reminded of the old saying that “What is newis not true, and what is true is not new”. With that in mind, therefore, the South African delegation’s contribution to this debate will be both short, and—I hope—very much to the point, and certainly within the time-limits set by our President. [17] However, at the outset, my delegation would like to join with other delegations who have already spoken at this rostrum, in paying tribute to the Report of the Director-General which has been laid before this Conference, as also to the report of our Executive Board. Above all, I should like to add my very sincere congratulations to the Director- General for the very able and distinguished speech with which he introduced his annual reportat the opening of this debate. In his clear exposition of the obstacles which have confronted the Organi- zation in the past 12 months, and in his analysis of the practical work that has been accomplished by the Secretariat, despite its manifold difficulties and problems, he has never before been more concise or more convincing. Like you, Mr. President, I share the view that this Organization is fortunate in its Director-General. We are grateful to him for his energetic efforts to give effect to the aims and pur- poses of Unesco, and also to the expressed wishes of past Conferences as to the best methods whereby those objectives might be accomplished. In that spirit, Sir, I know he will continue to welcome the constructive observations and even criticisms that MEETINGS 142 delegations have been advancing at this rostrum in the past few days. [18] At previous Conferences, Mr. President, my delegation has joined with others in the crusade for the concentration of our Unesco programme, and we feel that, following upon the Florence Confer- ence, a progressive and substantial advance has now certainly been made in that direction. But let me say, quite frankly, that the South African delegation shares the views of other delegations, and particu- larly the lucid exposition of the Swedish delegation, that much has still to be done before complete satisfaction can be registered. [19] In examining the Report, and particularly the draft resolutions which accompany it, my delegation respectfully takes the view that not enough attention has yet been directed to the recommendations of the United Nations General Assembly and of the Eco- nomic and Social Council, concerning the need for establishing priorities in our Organization’s pro- gramme and for adopting common criteria in deter- mining those priorities. [20] May I remind this Conference that, according to these recommendations, each project to be under- taken by this Organization, along with other Special- ized Agencies of the United Nations, should be allo- cated a priority by the Executive Board which would enable the General Conference to determine which projects should be retained, which curtailed, and which should be deferred or perhaps even dropped when the final programme was ultimately deter- mined? Such decisions must obviously have a healthy effect upon our budget and its ceiling, and therefore to the extent that this has not been accom- plished in the reports and draft resolutions now before us, a major weakness in the presentation of the present programme remains to be remedied by this Conference. It is true, as the Director-General has indicated, that the resolutions have been reduced in number from 294 to 147, and this in itself is a very praiseworthy achievement. But, in essence, it has been an achievement not of true concentration, but rather of co-ordination. In my delegation’s view, therefore, the process of concentration, of simplification, and of selection with an eye to appropriate priorities, and consequently to our budget, will have to be continued. Tt will be the responsibility of this Conference to give every as- sistance and guidance to the Director-General towards that objective, an aim which we all know he has much at heart. For behind all these strivings for a realistic programme, Member States have only one fundamental, positive aim, and that is the ability of the Organization to discharge adequately its important functions within the limits of such resources and means as Member States are able to place at its disposal in the difficult and tense days through which we are all passing, and of which we are all the financial victims. [21] This Conference will have the opportunity of z m
143 PLENARY deliberating upon the Budget for 1952 at a later stage, and I shall therefore avoid any reference to detail at this point. But, like certain other dele- gations who have touched upon the budget, the South African delegation must express its great per- turbation at the increased figures submitted for our consideration. It will be the duty of each of us to see what can be done to trim the estimate as nearly as possible within the range determined by the last Conferences, after making proper allowance, of course, for inflationary and other elements which have meanwhile supervened. [22] Other delegations have indicated individual items of the Programme which, in their view, call for revision. There is no need for me to reiterate them here, except to say that my delegation shares in the specific observations on that aspect made by the Danish and Swedish delegations yesterday. [23] But I wish to add our support to the proposal for the initiation of the system of biennial confer- ences. Economy and efficiency are bound to result. [24] Before concluding, I should like to touch upon one other point regarding the activities of our Organization. The Australian delegate, in a very able speech, referred to the need for the closest co- operation between the Organization and the National Commissions of Member States, or where they were not yet entirely operative, with the governments of MemberStates themselves. With that view my dele- gation warmly associates itself. But I would take that observation a step further into the specific field of the Organization’s publications. Unesco’s task lies very extensively in the sphere of the human and social sciences, where it is much more difficult to draw definite conclusions than in the physical sciences. It is therefore easy for some of these conclusions to have political implications. Several speakers during the past few days have warned Unesco against becoming involved in political mafters and I think we are all agreed on the need for avoiding that danger. [25] The Organization’s important activities include studies and the dissemination of information in connexion with the Rights of Man, social tensions, teaching about the United Nations and so on. I would suggest that in carrying out these delicate tasks, the Organization should always associate itself to the fullest possible extent with Member Govern- ments, when it undertakes the work of collecting material for its publications. [26] One of the Secretariat’s methods seems to be to place the function of collecting materials on various international study groups, who in turn request private individuals or private national bodies within metropolitan territories to supply that material. And finally publications are likely to appear and be given world-wide circulation, pub- lications which are not necessarily authoritative, and which therefore are more than likely to give rise to dissension and controversy. Such MEETINGS 11-10 results are clearly not conducive to the spread of objective, impartial, authoritative information, and may therefore only reflect upon our Organi- zation. Let us not forget—what appears sometimes to be overlooked—that this Organization is an organi- zation of Governments. I know the Director-General has closely at heart the objective of making whatever information is issued by Unesco authoritative to the maximum degree. Ie deserves our co-operation in this aim. [27] Mr. President, I would have liked to comment on certain specific projects in the Programme, as, for example, the establishment of regional funda- mental education centres, but other speakers have already covered the ground very fully. I will confine myself to saying that, correlated with the Technical Aid Programme of the United Nations in respect of undeveloped territories, it may very well be that, in projects such as these, the Organization mayfind its most fruitful work and a positive outlet for its best energies. But we shall have ample opportunity to discuss the proposal in the appro- priate commission. The South African delegation, for its part, will strive to contribute to such discussion. [28] I would conclude with the assurance, if any be needed, that at all times my delegation will join with its colleagues in this Conference in the basic objective of assisting this Organization to discharge the tasks that have been placed upon it by its Constitution. The road will certainly be long, and we shall certainly have to exercise every patience, but if the ultimate result is the moral solidarity of mankind and the attainment of peace, by the dis- semination of healthy ideas in the field of education, of science and of culture, our efforts will have been well worthwhile. It will remain for this Confer- ence to address itself to that responsibility in the immediate days ahead. [29] The PRESIDENT — The Head of the Chinese delegation. [30] Mr. Tienfong CHENG (China) — Mr. Presi- dent, fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen, in November 1946, when the First General Conference of Unesco was held in Paris I was present. Now I have the honour to represent my country again in this great international Organization. I cannot fail to notice the difference in Paris in these four and a half years. The rapid recovery of this great nation has contributed very largely to the promotion of culture and civilization in the world. I certainly feel great satisfaction and wish to congratulate the French Government upon this accomplishment. I also want to say a few words in appreciation of the assiduous work of the Director-General, Mr. Torres Bodet. Unesco has high aims and work of wide scope, but its means are very limited and its diffi- culties are legion. Under such conditions no one
11-10 PLENARY should expect Unesco to do too much or to attempt the impossible. Yet the record of work during the past year shows us that the Secretariat has done its best for the smooth running of the Unesco machine and for the maintenance of friendly co-operation be- tween the Organization and its Member States. Much of the credit must go to the Director-General, whose able leadership and untiring efforts made these results possible. [31] When the Unesco Constitution was adopted by the Constituent Conference in December 1945 and this great international Organization was thus created, the Chinese people were jubilant. Why? Because the Chinese people have always advocated the brotherhood of man, valued education and cul- ture above armed might, and loved universal peace more than anything else. As Mr. Naegelen, then French Minister for Education, pointed out in his address of welcome to the First Conference, China was the country which, at the San Francisco Con- ference of 1945, first initiated the idea of inter- national cultural and educational collaboration in the United Nations. So when the Chinese people read in the Unesco Constitution that “the purpose of the Organization is to contribute to peace and security by promoting collaboration among the nations through education, science and culture in order to further universal respect for justice, for the rule of law and for the human rights and funda- mental freedoms which are affirmed for the peoples of the world without distinction of race, sex, lan- guage or religion by the Charter of the United Nations”, they thought that their age-long dream of a lasting peace wasat last to come true. I may add that many nations of the world, both great and small, then shared that hope with the Chinese. [32] Today, six years after the establishment of the United Nations, and five and a half years after the establishment of Unesco, the hopes and dreams of mankind have been sadly shattered. Freedom- loving and peace-loving peoples all over the world live in constant fear, apprehension and suspense, in fact tension is greater in the world today than on the eve of the two world wars. What is the cause of all this trouble? What has made human beings so miserable? The answer is: world Communism with Soviet Russia as its centre. The ambition of Communism, or we may say the ambition of Soviet Russia, is nothing less than the conquest of the world. It intends to bring all nations, great or small, one by one into the Russian orbit. The method used to attain its goal is either subversive work inside a nation, generally known as “boring from within”, or pressure and aggression from without. Communism talks of peace but threatens with war. Instead of advocating universal brother- hood, it stirs up hatred and enmity among different classes and nations. Instead of promoting the spread of culture it puts an iron curtain around the Communist world and distorts the facts and truth
144MEETINGS of the non-Communist world. Instead of upholding the dignity of man it regards human beings merely as tools or animals to be used or slaughtered at will. Thus in Soviet Russia or its satellite States, there are absolutely no such things as freedom of speech, freedom of assembly, freedom of worship, academic freedom, and the free flow of ideas and knowledge. Millions of men are put into concentration camps to do slave work and hundreds of thousands are killed each year simply because they do not believe in Communism. At this very moment, guns are thundering, soldiers of freedom-loving nations are shedding their blood on the battleground of Korea because in June 1950 the Communist hordes started a completely unprovoked war in that country. [33] Now, ladies and gentlemen, leaving aside education and culture in Free China, which is dealt with in my report to the General Conference, I venture to tell you something about what has been happening on the mainland of China. My country had the misfortune of becoming one of the first victims of Soviet Russia in its course of world conquest. Using the Chinese Communists as its fifth column, Soviet Russia has virtually controlled the Chinese mainland for a year and a half. The puppet regime, the so-called “People’s Republic of China” with Mao Tse-tung as the puppet head, has, under the instructions of the Kremlin, endeavoured to do three things. In the first place, they want to sever relations between China and the Western democracies. As soon as the Chinese Communists occupied a city or an area, they at once put strict restrictions upon the activities of foreigners in general, and Americans in particular. Foreigners have been subject to all kinds of inconveniences and insults. Even consular and diplomatic officials are no exceptions. An anti-foreign, especially anti- American, movement has been stirred up all over the Chinese mainland. The Chinese people are being told and the students are being taught that all Western democracies are imperialistic powers, there- fore China’s enemies, and only “the Great Soviet Union” is China's friend. Missionaries have been insulted, man-handled, jailed or even murdered. Churches and other missionary property have been confiscated while missionary colleges and univer- sities have been taken over by the puppet regime. The Chinese people do not know what is going on in the outside world today. Books, magazines and newspapers published in foreign countries except Russia and its satellites are not permitted to enter the mainland. Listening to foreign broadcasts such as the Voice of America, or the BBC, is a crime punishable with a long term of imprisonment. All these facts point to the conclusion that the Kremlin wishes to shut China off from the democratic world and make her an absolute satellite of Soviet Russia. [34] Secondly, the Chinese Communists are enforcing a tyrannical rule and liquidating all anti- Communist or non-Communist elements. The    — J E e n у , А у е , И Р р е , И Н , e e , a a V O S E S T T E E E E S T E T T T E ل ج ح ج ح و ‎ S N , O S T E E
145 PLENARY Chinese people now live under a reign of terror. Not only have all kinds of freedom completely disap- peared but no one has any sense of security, no one knows how long he is going to live. He may be liquidated at any moment under any pretext. Government officials, military officers, Kuomintang members, landlords, merchants, professional men, professors, teachers, students, workers, farmers, etc., who have either in the past or at present said or done something to displease the Communists, are shot or tortured to death. Chu En-lai, the puppet Premier, admitted on 1 June of this year that a million and a half persons had been slaughtered since October 1949. But, according to our estimate, this number should at least be doubled. Besides, since grain has been confiscated from the farmers and manpower mobilized for the Korean war, a man-made famine is now spreading over the main- land and 40 million people are being starved. How many of them will die is anybody’s guess. Mao Tse- tung once declared that, in order to make China a true Communist State, he would not hesitate to liquidate half her population, that is, 225 million people. [35] Thirdly—and this concerns Unesco most— Mao Tse-tung and his hordes wish not only to kill the Chinese people but also to destroy Chinese culture and civilization. Confucianism, the corner- stone of Chinese culture, is fundamentally human- istic. Its emphasis is on human relations. It teaches how to be a good father, a good son, a good brother, a good husband, a good wife, a good friend, and a good citizen. It advocates righteousness, social justice, universal brotherhood, the dignity of man, and academic freedom. All these are Unesco’s ideals, but they are at variance with the teaching of Communism. Consequently, Confucian books are now forbidden on the mainland and at one time were collected and burned. The Chinese people are now encouraged to distrust each other, to hate each other and to kill each other. Children are taught to spy on and accuse their parents and elders. Edu- cation has become mere propaganda. All school textbooks have been rewritten, distorting facts and truth to suit the Communist purpose. Nothing is left undone to attack the Americans and to praise the Russians. To give some examples: 4 November, the day on which the new Sino-American commer- cial treaty was signed in 1946, is observed as a national humiliation day; Japan surrendered not because of American atom bombs but because of Russia’s entry into the war; the first aeroplane was not invented by the Wright brothers but by a Russian engineer; and the historical fact that Russia took the Amur and Ussuri areas from China in the middle of the nineteenth century is completely disregarded. [36] In schools and colleges on the mainland, students are taught not to learn the truth, nor to build up their character, nor to develop their faculty MEE TINGS 11-0 of observation, imagination and reasoning, but to put their thinking in a strait-jacket so as to conform to the party line. The Communists do not care whether the students are making progress in know- ledge. All they care is whether they think in the “correct” way. Teachers and professors no longer enjoy academic freedom. Not only history, geo- graphy and social sciences, but even the natural and applied sciences must be taught according to the Communist pattern. Any teacher or professor who dares to deviate from this path is at once dismissed and prosecuted. Besides, well-known scholars and professors are compelled under threat of the con- centration camp to write, speak, or broadcast, against their conscience, on the crimes of the ‘Western democracies and on the merits of Com- munist rule. Under the Communist régime, people have become ever poorer and are losing interest in education, with the result that attendance at all kinds of educational institutes is falling off. In
1946, there were 155,000 students in universities and colleges, 1,878,000 students in secondary schools and 23,810,000 students in primary schools. The figures for 1950, as announced by the Communists, were 140,000 in universities and colleges, 1,090,000 in secondary schools and 16,000,000 in primary schools. The only exception is that the Chinese Communists have set up many training classes, the so-called new universities to re-educate former government employees, turn-coat officers, sitting- on-the-fence intellectuals, and so forth, and to train youth for party work. More than 470,000 persons have received such training. [37] The conditions on the Chinese mainland are indeed appalling. The same conditions exist, I believe, in Soviet Russia and in the satellite States. They are a threat to peace and create tension and fear all over the world. Yet we must not become pessimistic and give up hope. Without hope, human existence is meaningless. I believe that civilization has progressed to such a degree that freedom and democracy cannot be destroyed by their foes, no matter how strong. Leaving the political and military problems for containing World Communism to the United Nations, we in Unesco must do our best in the educational and cultural sphere; we must penetrate the Iron Curtain with ideas and ideals. We must show the peoples living behind the Iron Curtain that we have no enmity toward them. We must tell them of the true conditions in the democratic world, in contrast with those in the Communist world. Once they understand the true meaning of freedom and democracy they will rise and throw off their yoke. Herein lies the hope of world peace. Let us all pray that the lofty purpose of Unesco may be achieved and mankind saved from another savage and destructive war. [38] The PRESIDENT — The delegate of New Zealand.
11-10 PLENARY [39] Mr. W. MASON (New Zealand) — Mr. Presi- dent, fellow-delegates, on behalf of the New Zealand delegation, I should like, first of all, to add to those already voiced, our congratulations to the Director- General upon the extremely able and comprehensive report on the activities of Unesco since the last Conference. The presentation of this report “is typical of the high standard that Unesco productions in general have now attained. And I am authorized to say on behalf of the New Zealand National Com- mission how much they value the majority of Unesco’s recent publications, both for their content and their presentation, and how much they ap- preciate the very great progress made in this field by the Secretariat. [40] The Director-General has told us that the Organization is now past the stage of planning pure and simple, and can show a record of solid achievement. We of the New Zealand delegation feel that the programme of Unesco has now reached a stage at which we find little to disagree with, so far as concerns either its main objectives or the indi- vidual projects which these objectives have inspired. In our view, it is now important to examine most carefully the work plans for these projects at every point, so that we can be sure there is no waste or duplication of effort. We feel, moreover, that what Unesco needs over the next few years is a stable programme, so that it does not have to turn from the main tasks it has begun and extend its efforts We shall thereforeand resources to new activities. resist the introduction of new projects into the Unesco programme. [41] Several previous speakers have referred to those words of Unesco’s Constitution which state the view that it is in the minds of men that the defences of peace must be built. Indeed, these are words so often quoted that they are in danger of losing their force and meaning. Yet they are the basis of Unesco’s activity—its raison d’être—and they should never be far from the thoughts of anyone who works with Unesco. It is perhaps even more impor- tant that they should be uppermost in the minds of all of us here at this General Conference. [42] Some of us were still in the armed forces in November 1945 when these words were embodied in Unesco’s draft Constitution, at the London Confer- ence which worked out for Unesco its Charter and its name and outlined its future work. Service-men have in the course of war exceptional opportunities of realizing its futilities and the waste and suffering it brings. Many of us had thought (as did many of our predecessors in the war of 1914-1918) of the better world that might be built out of the ruins resulting from the struggle in which our countries were involved. I had the honour to sit on the Commission in which the Preamble to our Constitu- tion was drafted, and I remember the fervour and high hopes (to which the distinguished French MEETINGS 146 Minister of Education referred) which accompanied the acceptance of the idea of building peace in the minds of men. : [43] It was to be the aim of this new organization to carry this enthusiasm for the ideal of peace to the mass of mankind, and to implant it so firmly that war would eventually become impossible, since the mass of mankind would have cast it out. It is important for us to remember that it should be Unesco’s primary aim to reach ordinary people everywhere and not merely a select group of the world’s intellectuals, artists or scientists. [44] This does not mean—and I cannot emphasize this point too strongly—that we favour an attempt by Unesco to achieve something sudden and specta- cular in the prevention of war. The education of a world public in thinking towards peace can clearly not be realized except as a long-term task. But we should beware of taking too long-term a view. We must guard against allowing Unesco to dissipate money and effort and—perhaps more important—time, on objects only remotely connected withits ideals. The Head of the United States delegation reminded us that the world in which we live moves quickly, that time is short. We know more than enough of the destructive effects of past wars on our education, on things cultural and artistic. We know something of the possible effects of atomic warfare on our whole civilization. We should be sure that we are spending the time we have left in erecting the essential pillars of the structure of peace before we think too much of the ornaments that might adorn it. [45] The great mass of people in the world struggle through a long day to earn their living or to perform their household tasks. They have only limited time and energy left for receiving what an organization such as Unesco has to give them. Unesco should be in a position to give them the things which bear, not remotely, but most closely on the understanding of their fellow human beings of other races, colours and political beliefs—the things that will most directly help them to become tolerant of others. [46] We in New Zealand feel for this reason that the fundamental education programme should be Unesco’s major instrument in carrying out its main objective. Indeed, without fundamental education, many of the other forms of assistance to under- developed countries cannot bring the benefits they might. NewZealand’s participation in the Colombo Plan for South Fast Asia has taught her that funda- mental education should be the preliminary to tech- nical assistance in its other forms. This being so, it is clear also that it must often be a preliminary to a speedier development among peoples of know- ledge and tolerance of others. We would therefore welcome a carefully planned and orderly expansion by Unesco of its work in fundamental education.    p y : и E T E T T E U E C U T , N S e Р Р . — m . - . , " | N
147 PLENARY So important do we consider this work that we should be willing to see other projects, excellent in themselves, deferred in the interests of the proposals which seem to us so promising of lasting results. [47] We also feel that much can be done in the field of youth, and perhaps more particularly with young people of the post-school age. But New Zealand’s children at least do not react markedly to the waving of flags and the sometimes artificial stimulation of enthusiasm at your rallies. So far as education of youth for international understanding is concerned, we feel most strongly that it must not simply be something tagged on to a school cur- riculum, somewhat after the fashion of a subject which went by the name of “hygiene” in the cur- riculum of my school days. But just as hygiene needs to be part of the daily routine of a child’s activity, so thinking towards international under- standing needs to be an attitude which penetrates young people’s education as a whole. [48] It was said early in this discussion that, because we are living in times of crisis, that is no reason for cutting down efforts for peace. With this we agree. So far from cutting down our efforts, we should be intensifying them—concentrating on things that have proved their worth, and ruthlessly eliminating the inessentials. We in New Zealand believe that Unesco can, by such efforts, and with the help of its member countries, lay a solid founda- tion on which a broader mutual tolerance and a wider understanding among peoples may yet be built. Tt will be our best endeavour to help Unesco in these efforts. [49] The PRESIDENT — The last speaker on the list is the leader of the delegation of Iraq. [60] Mr. Khalil KANNAH (Iraq) — Fellow-dele- gates, it is indeed a pleasure for the Iraqui delegation to join the Sixth Session of Unesco, and to be pri- vileged to meet this distinguished gathering of men of culture. We are very happy to state that Iraq feels and appreciates the great efforts of the distin- guished Director-General of Unesco, and it is my privilege to convey to him Iraq’s greetings for his brilliant and efficient leadership. [51] Iraq, a new State, is a country of old tradi- tions of civilization and culture. Owing to its geographical location, its fertility and the alert minds of its inhabitants, it has always been a fount and a meeting-place of cultures. Here the Babylonian and Assyrian civilizations flourished, to be followed by waves of Greek, Roman and Sassanian cultures. Then it became the radiant centre of Arab civilization with its ideals of tolerance, freedom and peaceful achievement. Then waves of invasions over- shadowed its life, but its fundamental traditions are deep-rooted. It is now a dynamic centre for the meeting of various currents and trends: settled as well as bedouin, and Western as well as Islamic. MEETINGS в 11-0 These sometimes co-operate and at other times clash. [62] We believe in preserving our traditional ideals, and in bringing Western thought and tech- nical progress into harmony with them. It is a great task for us, and for the outside world, and we believe that Unesco could do much to help us, and by doing so, it will be serving its aims. In view of such a background, we venture to suggest that Iraq would provide fertile ground for a social science centre. [63] Iraq believes that to combat poverty, disease and ignorance, a comprehensive plan in the social, economic and educational fields is needed. Edu- . cational plans must go hand in hand with projects for land development, irrigation and industry. The Iragi Government enacted a law which initiated a national land utilization and development scheme, to open up for settlement uncultivated state lands and to encourage small holdings. To ensure its success, the Government decided to develop a basic educational programme in connexion with the scheme. [64] On the other hand, Iraq established a “Develop- ment Board”, an independent body, with full powers to spend oil royalities on development projects such as irrigation, drainage, the digging up of artesian wells, the construction of roads and bridges and the building of hospitals and schools. [55] The economic development of Iraq requires intensive promotion of technical education. There- fore, Iraq’s welcome to Unesco’s Technical Assistance Programme is genuine and whole-hearted. We believe that co-operation between Iraq and Unesco will have great and encouraging results, and we shall be glad to give the experts all help and support. We feel, however, that the programme for basic education in Iraq should be practical and coloured by local social and economic conditions and needs, since only thus would it improve the lot of the people and serve common ends. [66] Mr. President, the tragedy of Arab refugees in Palestine was the outcome of political blunders in which Unesco had no share, yet it has had to face one of the unfortunate results of those blunders, the problem of educating refugee children. At the Fifth Session, support was given to my country’s proposal to allocate $150,000 for the partial solution of these problems. It was indeed a noble act that deserves high consideration. I do hope that this allocation will be increased in the budget of 1952 to an amount that will meet the great need in this field. [57] I sincerely hope that our Conference will implement the lofty principle of fostering national cultures, and of spreading education through the use of national languages at the different levels of education in all countries. This, I feel, is the obvious means of perpetuating the ideals of freedom and peace. [68] We know that Unesco’s field is limited to
11-10 PLENARY education, science and culture, yet we cannot help feeling that the aims and methods of other organi- zations of the United Nations must accord with Unesco’s for only thus can we expect to see a world in which security, co-operation and faith in peace are achieved. [69] The Secretary-General of the United Nations referred in his excellent speech to the collective action of the United Nations to stop aggression in Korea. We who hate aggression welcomed his remarks and hoped, and still hope, that the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies will co-operate in wiping out aggression and eradicating its roots in other parts of the world. We heartily endorse the statement of the Head of the United States dele- gation that Unesco cannot be the instrument of a State or a small group of States, for we believe that Unesco’s success depends greatly on the confidence and the faith that all Member States, big and small alike, have in it. Without suchfaith its work would be obstructed. [60] I wish to make a special reference to the eloquent speech delivered by the Head of the dele- gation of India. The eminent speaker, with the high position and esteem he enjoys in the East, excellently described the great awakening in Asia and Africa. We sincerely hope that his views receive the consideration they merit from this Organization. [61] Iraq is immensely interested in the ideals and work of Unesco. It looks forward with great expecta- tions to Unesco’s aid in fundamental and technical education. We highly esteem the programme sub- mitted by the Director-General which gives priority in technical assistance to under-developed countries, for this would create faith in Unesco, and would secure the co-operation of small nations in carrying out its projects. In fact, we maintain that Unesco’s success is largely measured by the degree of co- operation it receives specifically from such small countries. [62] Mr. President, fellow-delegates, the noble ideals and principles that Unesco is trying to propa- gate are by no means alien or novel to the Arabs. Indeed, they constitute an integral part of their moral and cultural traditions. It is not a strange phenomenon, therefore, if we in the Arab world spontaneously and heartily support the free principles of this Organization. We can by no means deviate in our social and cultural relationship and outlook from Arab-Moslem traditions typified in the famous saying of the Second Caliph: “Men have been born free, they cannot be enslaved”. [63] The PRESIDENT —We have had a comprehen- sive debate on the Director-General’s Report. We are eagerly looking forward to the reply which the Director-General will now make. MEETINGS Reply by the Director-General. [64] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, ladies and gentle- men, let me assure you right away that I am not going to inflict a speech upon you. My remarks will not exceed the time limit you have observed with such exemplary self-control, but which has not excluded either eloquence or depth of thought. [65] It has become a tradition for the Director- General to reply to the delegates of Member States, taking note of their criticisms and registering their advice. Above all, ladies and gentlemen, I hasten to express my gratitude for the moving way in which you have shown your goodwill toward me personnally, your comprehension of the difficulties of our task, and your faith in the destiny of Unesco. And this you have done with the different accents and viewpoints which always enrich our frank dis- cussions and prove that a multiplicity of opinions no more hinders our common devotion to essentials than the diversity of peoples impairs their need for brotherhood. [66] I cannot thank each delegation individually for drawing my attention to such and such an aspect of our work, so I shall simply say to France how very glad we were to hear from Mr. Lapie, Minister of Education, that the French Government has decided to place at Unesco’s disposal a plot of land and credits for building the permanent headquarters of the Organization in Paris. [67] I should also think it unjust if I did not pass on to the Secretariat as a whole the expressions of satisfaction with which you have honoured me. [68] 1 should like, in a few words, to bring out the main points of the speeches we have just heard. 1 think we can congratulate ourselves on having covered in our opening debate both the Report of Activities and the Draft Programme. Indeed, the past and the future of Unesco must be considered together if we want, as all our speakers desired, to ensure continuity of action. Every speech contained this double ex- amination of the work already done and the task to be undertaken. So now we have for the future not only approval and criticism, but also guidance. The Sixth Session of the General Conference therefore bears singularly happy testimony, in my view, to the urgency of Unesco’s programme. For if this Confer- ence has reckoned up the successes and the failures, it has also refused to rest content with the balance sheet, satisfactory though it esteems this to be. It has refused to consider our work only as a function of the past. Instead, it turns courageously toward the future. I do not need to emphasize how much I value the opinion and the advice we have been given. Every bit of it deserves my attention, and still more, my gratitude. [69] The results to which you have been pleased to    | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
149 PLENARY give particular attention in the Report cannot be considered as activities successfully completed and therefore over and done with. Like everything which has life in it, they are a continuous creation. Every task accomplished places a fresh obligation upon us. Every plan realized at once transforms itself into a new plan, because it demands its own development which aims at producing results in its turn. The Programme extends the Report of yesterday and pre- figures the Report of tomorrow. The satisfaction you will, IT hope, be able to express next year depends upon the resolutions you adopt today. [70] But these resolutions are not merely inscribed in a programme; they also represent money that has to be spent. Between the adoption of a programme, here drawn up with scrupulous regard for world needs, and the execution of a programme registered in the Annual Report, we have to go through a difficult phase, weighing up the financial resources which would enable us to justify by deeds the hopes so eloquently expressed on this platform. We shall be judged, ladies and gentlemen, by our acts. [71] A budget is not a simple exercise in arith- metic: it is the indispensable instrument of action. It measures up to the size of the sacrifices which those responsible are prepared to demand and to justify—the real value they set upon a cause. Unesco, as one delegate has pointed out, costs less money in one year than would be spent in one hour of warfare. On the other hand, what Unesco can do for the prosperity and peace of ae world, by raising human capacities to higher levels, is only to be reckoned by long-term standards, but its value is incalculable. [72] No one purposes more than I do to make a strict apportionment between expenditure and necessities, to economize public money, and to achieve the maximum result with the minimum of means. But consistency in one’s work is the first law of efficiency. [73] That some points in the programme have no direct interest for certain countries, is obvious, and in a way we should be glad of this. But it is not because he wants to learn to read himself that a teacher gives time, money and energy to make him- self better fitted to instruct the children of his village. And it is not for itself that any given country, justly proud that it has no illiterates amongst its own population, associates itself with a programme of fundamental education. Without the practical application of mutual aid, international generosity and disinterested service, Unesco would not exist. [74] At the price of some sacrifice of material interests, what country would not be glad to benefit from a more secure peace and to see a larger section of mankind enjoying better conditions of life? That is the result we expect from the work of Unesco: every speaker has said as much. I am confident MEETINGS 11-0 that the delegates here assembled will be able to persuade their fellow-countrymen, and their col- leagues in other organizations, that the conclusions we have reached are sound. The prudence and modesty of our demands, even in their most extreme form, should not fail to apppeal to the generosity of the peoples of our Member States. The Special Project in Fundamental Education, the modesty and necessity of which you have alike recognized, cannot possibly be implemented without an extra effort, in addition to that asked for in the normal programme. But one never appeals in vain to the solidarity of Unesco. [75] The progress we can be seen to have made in the choice of our activities should also, for that matter, inspire still greater confidence. As the Programme becomes less and less speculative, and more and more based upon experience, it becomes clearly less general and more precise, less dependent on chance and more efficacious, less nebulous and more concentrated. It avoids the two opposite dangers, against which several speakers have warned us, of duplication and unreality. [76] You have particulary reminded us of the need to concentrate our efforts on a certain number of limited and concrete projects. I entirely share this solicitude for efficiency and strictness. The times in which we live forbid waste of energy, and enter- + prises, however generous, which do not answer to real and deep needs, are soon wiped out. It is in this belief that the Programme submitted to you has been drawn up. In any case, I do not think that the number, and above all the scope, of the resolu- tions which form our plan of work could be reduced without risk. The tasks of Unesco are undeniably numerous, or, we might rather say, the services which in the present diversity of cultures and living conditions the world expects from Unesco, are of necessity complex and manifold. Who would dare at the present time to make an arbitrary decision between the help we ought to give to a community whose isolation condemns it to poverty, and the assistance that should be granted, for instance, to a learned society? Perhaps the salvation of the former depends very much, on the labours of the latter. I say perhaps. But in the perspective of history, it is certain that a connexion really does exist between the needs of the most wretched human societies and the work of the pioneers in education and science. The variety of services demanded of Unesco is very great, it is true; but there is also no doubt that they make up an indivisible whole, because culture itself is indivisible and we cannot discriminate among its various expressions, levels of development and needs, however diverse these may appear at first sight. [77] That is why the special Project for Funda- mental Education, which has received your unanimous support, has been coupled in my mind
11-0 РОДЕ МА ВУ with another Project for University Courses, which we have been obliged, owing to the difficulties of the time, to cut down considerably, but of which you will find traces in the Section on the Exchange of Persons. But we must hold both ends of the chain in our hands, and we have been justly reminded from this platform of the tragic plight of intellectuals in the modern world. It is the duty of Unesco, so as not to widen the gulf which often separates them, to bring together the élite and the masses, the favourites and the outcasts of culture, and to make their reciprocal intercourse the motive power behind their joint progress. Similary, if the power of technical progress is not to be turned against man and society, it is absolutely necssary that, in making the methods and resources of modern industrial science more accessible, we should also, at the same time, take care to render them more civilized. How can this necessary task, so characteristic of our epoch, be accomplished if we neglect any single branch of intellectual and moral activity? [78] The equilibrium of our programme comes from the fact that no human community or group is exempt from our care. If it is the aim of Unesco that no level of knowledge should be strange to it, no region of the world should be strange, either. Regional adaptation, which so many speakers have advocated, is in fact a requisite of efficiency; the Draft Programme submitted to you endeavours to satisfy this demand in the light of experience and according to our means. It is capable of considerable improvement, which our limited resources un- fortunately forbid at present. But this adaptation to special regional needs would lose its real meaning, if it did not take into account the universal outlook proper to Unesco. Indeed, it is this sense of the universal that we need to develop in adapting our . work to the peculiarities of each region. This is a point which has been emphasized by many dele- gations, most opportunely. [79] In creating our Organization, the United Nations intended to dedicate it to Education, Science and Culture. Several speakers have drawn a further deduction: that Science, Education and Culture should not lend themselves to any manceuvre or any form of propaganda. They should be neither a political stake nor a political instrument. I, too, am persuaded that our work can only succeed inso- far as it embodies the highest and most complete conception of man that it is possible to have. The men, women and children whom our work directly concerns do not belong to the imaginary species called “political” or “economic”, or any other abstract name one might like to mention. Theyare creatures of flesh and blood, who ask only to live, and live to the full, and who all have equal title to our absolute devotion. When we come up against veritable ramparts of prejudice and distrust between MEET TINGS 150 peoples, we must remember that our mission is precisely to destroy these unworthy survivals, and that it is never too late to try and instal in their place trust, clarity and finally the friendship of men and of peoples who know that they are in- dissolubly bound by a common humanity. Over and above every political, social or religious system, our conscience links us to the rest of humanity, suffering and fighting for the conquest of our common honour and well-being. It is on conscience, too, that we base our hopes, and by increasingly awakening it through Education, Science and Cul- ture, we shall accomplish our programme of peace —a long-term programme, it is true, but in the end as certain to triumph as the once disputed scientific theory of universal gravitation. [80] I have been particularly pleased, ladies and gentlemen, by the courageous statements you have made about the necessary co-operation of National Commissions, and the confidence you have placed in the collaboration of the international non- governmental organizations. Without them, Unesco would be utterly crippled, condemned to brood over beautiful plans which it could not possibly translate into reality. I think that this year we have under- stood more clearly than ever before the organic role of the National Commissions and the international non-governmental organizations. We are all per- suaded—or so I felt—that it is by uniting all these agencies in co-ordinated action that Unesco can preserve, through creative tension, the dynamic equilibrium, which its Constitution demands, between its dependence on Member States, who cannot ignore their national obligations, and its mission towards the educationist, scientists, artists and thinkers, who live by the freedom of the mind. Divided between the throne and the altar, as one of you remarked, must Unesco dwell in everlasting uncertainty whether to be a public administration or a society of intellectuals? No! If it has all the complexity of a synthetic organization, it also has all the riches. By its administrative structure, Unesco is linked with governments; by its National Commissions it is more directly linked with peoples; by the international non-governmental organizations it is linked with experts. All these resources must converge if Unesco is to succeed, and the mere desire to go on existing will never make it betray the reasons for its existence. [81] The personal freedom of the complete man, complete in himself and as a social being—that is the object of Education, Science and Culture. That is also the surest foundation of democracy and peace. If the delegates of Member States are thus unanimous in proclaiming their faith in these principles which are basic to Unesco and guarantee its future, I do not hesitate to say, ladies and gentlemen, we are bound to succeed. For at this very Conference we are carrying out an experiment in international | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | i    — — , | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | i | [ I i
151 PLENARY understanding. We are confident of working effectively for world peace. [82] Tt is the privilege of an Organization like ours to give a positive, human meaning to the idea of peace, which has been so often presented to us as an abstract notion, a dubious reality, or a childish illusion. Peace is the desire to live and let live which all men share, genius and average man, scientist and artist, scholar and artisan. And who will build peace if not they, and the Organization which unites them all in knowledge and friendship? Yes, it is for us to give the lie to the cynicism and despair which see nothing in the human adventure but unending wars, interrupted by some sort of truce destined only for the preparation of more wars. It is for us to recall and to prove by every one of our decisions the great truth expressed by a philosopher “in a century which believed in the nobility of man: “The first and fundamental law of nature is to seek peace and pursue it”. I do not know how many years before a poet of Rig Veda sang already: The only reality that remains is Unity, Although one speaks of it as though it were made up [of many parts. It is the march towards Unity that ennobles the world. In this long and exalting march, as one speaker finely said, Unesco embraces peace and truth. This Conference has given to different races, peoples, tongues, the freedom to express themselves without restraint, and we have all seen that a profound unity lay beneath this wonderful diversity. We shall serve the truth if we recognize this diversity and help it to develop along its own lines. We shall also serve the truth if we recognize this underlying unity and help it to develop throughrespect for all divergencies. Then we shall realize that the active search for truth coincides with the establishment of peace, but of peace founded on mutual understanding and tole- rance—much more, on the will to allow everybody to develop his own personality in freedom. Peace through truth! Through truth steeped in love for one’s neighbour, for it is still true, and will always be true, that we are all brethen one of another. [83] That, when all is said and done, is the lesson that the governments and peoples of our 64 Member-States can teach the world. You have expressed the desire that Unesco should be a guide in this progress towards the light which illumines the world, the mutual aid which pacifies it, and the unitv which can bring the realization of our hopes. In this dark and menacing year, you have expressed this wish, ladies and gentlemen, with solemn and particular emphasis. We could hope for no better encouragement. I thank you all from the bottom of my heart. MEETINGS 11-0 Consideration and Adoption of the Supple- mentary Report of the Credentials Committee. [84] The PRESIDENT — I can only regret that my duties compelled me to miss even a part of those eloquent remarks of our Director-General. I now ask the Chairman of the Credentials Committee to present the further report of that body. [85] Mr. J. STONE (Chairman of the Credentials Committee) — The Credentials Committee held its second meeting on Wednesday 20 June at 10 a.m. The Committee examined seven regular credentials issued by the Governments of Austria, Bolivia, Canada, Mexico, Peru, Philippines, Union of South Africa. The Committee agreed on the validity of these credentials and recommends their acceptance accordingly. The Committee has also received a credential from the Syrian Legation in Paris and recommends that the Syrian delegation be provi- sionally seated at the Conference. It also recom- mends the acceptance of the credentials of an observer of the Republic of Ireland received by the Committee. [86] The Committee decided to deal with the question of China separately under the following two headings:
(1) the validity of the credentials issued by the Government of the Republic of China from Taipe (Formosa).
(2) the Chinese delegation’s request to the General Conference for permission to vote, notwithstand- ing Article TV 8b of the Constitution, on the ground that the delay in China’s payment was due to circumstances beyond her control. [87] On the first question, the Committee gave consideration to the relevant resolution adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations on
14 December 1950. The objections raised at the first meeting of the Committee by Yugoslavia and India were explained and re-emphasized by the delegates of those States. A motion by these delegations that the credentials of the delegation of China should not be accepted, and a motion of the United States delegation that the status of the Taipe Government vis-A-vis Unesco should remain unchanged, pending a decision by the United Nations General Assembly, were discussed. By six votes to one (India) with one abstention (Yugoslavia), the following recom- mendation was adopted, after certain delegates had explained their position. [88] The United Kingdom representative ex- plained that his vote in no way affected the recogni- tion by his Government of the Central People’s Government as the Government of China, but that he voted for the compromise resolution for post- poning final decision on the matter, in view of the
11-10 PLENARY recent and continuing action of that Government in relation to Korea. [89] The Yugoslav delegate explained that his country abstained since he could not support the representation of the Chinese Nationalist Govern- ment. [90] The Committee's recommendations read: The Committee recommends the adoption by the General Conference of the following resolution: The General Conference:
(1) Noting the United Nations General Assembly’s resolution establishing a Special Committee to consider the question of the representative of China,
(2) Noting that, pending a final decision of the General Assembly, the representative of the Nationalist Government of China continues to sit in the various organs of the United Nations,
(8) Noting the United Nations recommendation that the attitude adopted by the United Nations General Assembly be taken into account in the Specialized Agen- cies, Decides (a) to postpone decision regarding a change in the Chinese representation at the General Conference of the Organization, (b) to accept at this session the credentials of the representation of the same Chinese Government that has been represented at previous sessions of the General Conference. [91] the Chairman to discuss with the Chairman of the General Committee the submission of this question to some other organ, having regard to its budgetary implication. On the second question, the Committee asked [92] The PRESIDENT — I thank the Chairman of the Credentials Committee for his report to us. He has moved the adoption of his report. I invite any discussion from the floor. I recognize the delegate of India. [93] Sir S. RADHAKRISHNAN (India) — Mr. Presi- dent and fellow-delegates, I am sorry I have to oppose the majority recommendation of the Cre- dentials Committee as I feel that its acceptance will do us considerable harm in every way. The question of the non-payment of dues in time is a detail. The representative character of the Taiwan delegation is the main question. By admitting the delegates of the Government of Taiwan we preclude the possibi- lity of getting Peoples’ China into the Organization. [94] I should like to put before you the different implications of this recommendation. First let me turn to the work of Unesco. [95] The letter of the Minister of Education of the Republic of China to the Director-General, dated
18 May 1951, admits that this government controls
7 4 million people out of a total population of
470 millions. As a result of military reverses, the mainland was surrendered to the People’s Govern- MEETINGS 152 ment and the Republic had to withdraw to Taiwan. In other words, the people of China elected to come under the Government of People’s China. It will be a travesty of facts for us to recognize the Taiwan Government as the government of the Chinese people when, on its own admission, it represents a small fragment of 7 million odd out of a total of 470 million. [96] Again, from the foundation of this Organi- zation, the people of China have taken an important part in the activities of Unesco. By excluding them from this Organization, we are creating a vacuum which is filled by other forces. By taking the Chinese away from the liberal traditions of Unesco, we expose them to other influences. [97] Besides, as far back as 1942, Mao Tse-tung said that he wished to encourage cultural activities with the West. He said: China should absorb abundantly the progressive culture of foreign nations as raw materials for her cultural food. . . . What we find useful today we must absorb, not only from the socialist or new democratic cultures of other nations, but also from the old cultures, e.g. from the cultures of the various capitalist countries. These are his very words. People’s China is not unwilling to learn from us and co-operate with us. Is it necessary for us to slam the door in her face? We should build bridges and not break them down even where they exist. We should remove obstacles to intercommunication, advance cultural inter- dependence and reduce social tensions. The Director-General has been working for the ideals of Unesco with great zeal and going to the ends of the earth to rouse enthusiasm for Unesco and we propose to curtail his activities. If there is cynicism about our work, it is because we proclaim great ideals and do not attempt to implement them. Our deeds do not match our words. We will defeat the very purpose of Unesco if we accept the majority recom- mendation. Is it not our hope that all races, creeds and colours, even warring nations, may clasp hands through the medium of arts, science and culture) Secondly, we are told that we should conform to the decisions of the United Nations General Assembly. [98] The United Nations General Assembly referred the matter to a special committee which is to decide this question. There is no mandate from the United Nations requiring us to seat the representatives of the Taiwan Government. We may help the special committee by unseating the Taiwan representatives here and keeping the door open for the representa- tives of the Central Government of China. Yester- day, the distinguished leader of the Egyptian dele- gation referred to Unesco as the conscience of the United Nations, as the good conscience, not its bad conscience. In his address at the Glasgow Univer- sity, Prime Minister Attlee said that Universities must never be instruments in the hands of a govern- _ — … … . . . . . e e e r e w w w — — ,
153 PLENARY ment, a church or any political or economic group. As devotees of education, science and culture, we must guide and advise the United Nations and not simply echo its views right or wrong. Once upon a time we had the doctrine “The King can do no wrong.” Are we going to adopt the view that the United Nations can do no wrong? [99] We regret Chinese intervention in the Korean conflict, we may resent it, but let us consider at what stage they intervend and whether their inter- vention was entirely unprovoked. Let us be fair. We seem to be swayed by passing enthusiasms and indignations. We are ready to reverse our judg- ments on great issues in accordance with the tide of popular emotion rather than by the reasoned applica- tion of sound principles. I knowthat even States Who have recognized the Central Government of China are hesitant about this question on account of what is called “the continued intransigence” of the People’s China in the matter of reaching an honourable settlement in Korea. I deeply deplore the unnecessary loss of precious lives in Korean battlefields and I am as anxious as anyone here that a settlement should be reached as soon as possible on this question. Do we bring settlement nearer by the proposed action? We treat People’s China as an outcast, an untouchable, a criminal aggressor and then complain that she is not behaving as an honoured member of the community of nations. We are making rather heavy demands on human nature. From our position we may show a better spirit. Is it our policy to meet intransigence by intransigence? To the wicked, be wicked, is one way; even to the wicked, be just is a nobler way. “Be not overcome of evil, but overcome evil with good” (Romans XII.4). Magnanimous behaviour is the highest strategy; it is the highest statesmanship. Let us rise superior to our emotions and do what is right. It may make an impression on flexible ima- ginative human nature. [100] Friends, we are living in dangerous times. Look at the trouble in Iran. Look at the fate of the Four Deputies’ Conference. The whole lament- able process is unrolling itself again, the increasing tension, the mounting hatred, the confusion of voices and active preparations for war. We live in an age of violence. The only question is, under which flag we shall serve. We seem to be moving like sleepwalkers into darkness. The forces in humanity seem to be edging it towards suicide. An irresistible suicidal impulse seems to have gripped the human race. It is no use repeating to ourselves that war is not inevitable. It is inevitable unless We pull ourselves together and make a supreme effort of a new and positive kind to prevent it. This is a time for searching of hearts and greatness of spirit. The enemies of mankind are not only ignorance and want but passion and prejudice. “All men desire peace,” said Thomas-à-Kempis, MEETINGS 11-0 “but all men do not desire the conditions which make for peace.” Here is an opportunity for us to create conditions which will make for peace. In the name of the youth of the United Nations facing death in Korea, in the name of the Korean people who are being destroyed, I appeal to you for an act of faith in the spirit of reconciliation. It may well be the turning point in ouraffairs in the East. By rejecting this recommendation, we prepare the way for co- operation in our work with the many millions of China, we exercise a soothing, moderating influence and we will help the interests of world peace. We will serve the cause of Unesco, the cause of peace, the cause of humanity. An act of faith is the only answer to the blackness of despair. [101] The PRESIDENT — I thank the distinguished member of the Indian delegation for his remarks. Before calling upon other speakers, I shall explain exactly howI suggest this General Conference should act on the report of the Credentials Committee. [102] The report falls into three parts, on two of which the General Conference is required to take action. As these parts are separable, I shall put them to the vote in the following order. [103] First, I will present to you that part of the Committee’s report and recommendation resulting from its examination of credentials submitted to it subsequent to its first meeting, namely, the cre- dentials issued by the Governments of Austria, Bolivia, Canada, Mexico, Peru, the Philippines and South Africa. I will also submit the recommenda- tion for the provisional seating of Syria and the recommendation that the General Conference accept the credentials of the observer from the Republic of Ireland, both of which are contained in the initial part of the Credentials Committee's report. [104] Secondly, and as a separate matter, T will present to you the resolution proposed by the Chair- man of the Credentials Committee, concerning the credentials of China. [105] Thirdly, without requesting action on your part, I will remind you that, as the result of a recommendation, the question of the actual voting powers of the Chinese delegation has already been referred by the General Committee from the Cre- dentials Committee to the Procedure Committee, where it is still under consideration. [106] TI shall now recognize the delegate of China. [107] Mr. Tienfong CHENG (China) — Mr. Presi- dent and fellow-delegates, I am not at all surprised that the question of China’s representation should be raised at this Conference. Up to yesterday, the same question had been raised 79 times in the United Nations and its Specialized Agencies by Soviet Russia and its satellites, but not in a single international organization did they succeed in un- seating the representative of the Chinese Govern-
11-10 PLENARY ment in favour of the representative of the so-called “People’s Republic of China”. This is the eightieth attempt and I believe it will meet the same fate. [108] But what I am surprised at, is that in the absence of the satellite States the question should be raised by the delegation of India. It is indeed dis- couraging for the free world to see such an eminent scholar as the Indian delegate becoming a spokes- man for the Communists. The Indian delegate has been and still is Professor of Oriental Philosophy and Civilization in Oxford University. Being a Professor of Chinese culture he should treasure this heritage of ours. Now the Communists are bent upon destroy- ing completely all our classics, all our philosophical works, all our cultural traditions, in short, trying to wipe out Chinese civilization. In his capacity as Indian Ambassador accredited to the court of the Communist Empire, his utterances are understand- able as a political expedient. As a delegate to the Unesco Conference, I wonder how he can reconcile his political views with his philosophical conscience. [109] It is true that the Chinese mainland is now occupied by the Communists as the fifth column of Soviet Russia. But this is only military occupa- tion and it should not in any way affect the status of China as a member of Unesco. In this regard, I must call your attention to the fact that the Con- ference of the Allied Ministers of Education was the forerunner of Unesco. In those years, the countries of several allied educational ministers were militarily occupied by forces of aggression. Yet no question was ever raised as to the validity of their representa- tion. I cannot believe that in the space of a few years, eminent delegates can deviate from their former righteous stand by supporting the doctrine that “might is right”. [110] The so-called “Central Government of the People's Republic of China”, that is Mao Tse-tung's régime, is not a Chinese Government at all. It is created by Soviet Russia to control the Chinese people on the mainland and is aptly called “a colonial Russian Government” by Mr. Dean Rusk, Assistant Secretary of State of the United States, and “a puppet régime” by Mr. John Foster Dulles, American Ambassador-at-Large. Mao Tse-tung and his hordes wish to destroy Chinese culture and civilization so as to make China a Communist State. Besides, the United Nations has declared that régime an aggressor because of its aggressive actions in Korea and, as such, there has been an embargo against it. Were representation of the Government of the Republic of China to be denied and sucha régime to be admitted to Unesco to represent Chinese culture, it would be a great mockery and Unesco would defeat its own purpose of spreading culture and promoting world peace. [111] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of MEETINGS 154 China for his remarks and call on the delegate of the United Kingdom. [112] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) — Mr. President and fellow-delegates, I think that we all of us feel that the soonerthis discussion ends the better, and I very much hope that my remarks will be forgiven. I do feel it necessary to explain, on behalf of the United Kingdom delegation, why we support the Credentials Committee’s recommenda- tion that no decision should be taken now about a change in the representation of China in Unesco, but that, at this session, we should accept the cre- dentials of the representatives of the same Govern- ment as has been represented at past sessions of the Conference. [113] We in our country recognize the Central People’s Government as the Government of China; we have done so for more than a year and westill do, and during that year, we have pressed for the admission of that Government to the United Nations. We have hoped that the Government which claims a seat in the United Nations would accept the obliga- tions of a member of the United Nations to abstain from the support of aggression and to settle its differ- ences by peaceful means. But four months ago the United Nations felt bound to condemn that Govern- ment for supporting aggression in Korea, and in the course of those four months, that Government has launched offensive after offensive against United Nations troups. We hope, we deeply hope, that very soon that Central People’s Government of China will accept the patient offers to make an honourable end of the fighting in Korea, but we do not feel that, in these present circumstances, while our hopes are still unfulfilled, we should decide to change the representation of China in this Organization. Accordingly, we hold that this is not the time to make a change and suggest accepting the credentials of those who have come to this Conference from the Government which has sent representatives in the past. In any case, our clear determination is that, whoever is represented as a delegate at this Confer- ence, shall be so regarded at this Conference, and whatever our differences of opinion may be, leading up to the decision which we are shortly to take, once that decision has been taken, we will all of us seek to work together as members of one family. [114] the United Kingdom for his remarks. of Yugoslavia has requested the floor. The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of The delegate [115] Mr. RIBNIKAR (Yugoslavia) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, though not en- tirely in agreement with the views expressed here by the delegate of India, the Yugoslav delegation is prepared to support his suggestion—that is, we do — — — — _ — — . m . m . s e e e e — — z m . m . e e e e . » A ,
155 PLENARY not intend to accept the credentials of the Chinese delegation from Formosa. Last year, in Florence, the Yugoslav delegation submitted a draft resolution to the same effect. We maintain our position, and without attempting to answer the arguments put forward by the delegate of China, which in my opinion do not deserve a reply, I simply wish to declare that the Yugoslav delegation will not vote for that part of the Credential Committee's report which refers to the credentials of China. [116] The PRESIDENT — I thank the leader of the delegation of Yugoslavia for his remarks. As no other speakers wish to take the floor, we shall now proceed to consider the report along the lines I previously suggested. [117] The Credentials Committee's report falls into two distinct sections on which you must take action. [118] The first part is the recommendation that the General Conference approve that portion of the report stating that the credentials issued by the Governments of Austria, Bolivia, Canada, Mexico, Peru, Philippines and Union of South Africa are in order and are valid. [119] The Committee also considered that the cre- dentials issued by the Legation of Syria should permit the provisional seating of the delegation of Syria and, further, that the Republic of Ireland had presented appropriate credentials to permit the admission of an observer of the Republic of Ireland. I therefore ask you to consider first this portion of the report of the Credentials Committee. Will those who approve this portion of the Credentials Committee’s report please raise their hands? Those opposed? Abstentions? This portion of the report is adopted, with no opposition and with two abstentions. [120] We then come to the second section of the report presented by the Credentials Committee. You will recall that the Credentials Committee sepa- rated the two aspects of the question of the repre- sentation of China. We are not now asked to take any decision with respect to the voting powers of the representatives of China who may be accepted here at the Conference, since that question has been referred to the General Committee and by the Gener- al Committee to the Procedure Committee, where it is under consideration. Therefore, the General Conference is now asked to vote on the resolution approved by the Credentials Committee and moved by the Chairman of the Credentials Committee. I will now read this resolution to you again, so that you will have it firmly in mind. [121] The Committee recommends the adoption by the General Conference of the following resolu- tion: The General Conference:
1. Noting the United Nations General Assembly's MEETINGS 11-0 resolution establishing a special committee to consider the question of the representative of China;
2. Noting that pending a final decision of the General Assembly, the representative of the Nationalist Govern- ment of China continues to sit in the various organs of the United Nations;
3. Noting the United Nations recommendation that the attitude adopted by the United Nations General Assembly be taken into account in the Specialized Agencies. The General Conference Decides (a) to postpone decision regarding a change in the Chinese representation at the General Conference of the Organization; (b) to accept at this session the credentials of the representatives of the same Chinese Government that has been represented at previous sessions of the General Conference. [122] You have heard the resolution moved by the Chairman of the Credentials Committee. I will again ask those who favour the adoption of this resolution to raise their hands. [123] Mr. RIBNIKAR (Yugoslavia) — [Translation from the French] I ask for a roll-call vote. [124] The PRESIDENT — The delegate of Yugoslavia has requested a roll-call vote, and his proposal has been seconded by India and Burma. We will therefore change the procedure and call the roll on this motion. [125] The vote was taken by roll-call. Voted in favour: Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, Canada, Costa Rica, Cuba. Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt, France, Greece, Haiti, Iran, Iraq, Italy, Korea, Lebanon, Liberia, Luxembourg, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Salvador, Thailand, Turkey, Union of South Africa, United Kingdom, United States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela. Voted against: Burma, India, Yugoslavia. Abstained: Afghanistan, Indonesia, Israel, Sweden, Switzerland. Absent: Austria, Ceylon, Colombia, Czecho- slovakia, Dominican Republic, Guatemala, Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, Honduras, Hungary, Monaco, Poland, Saudi Arabia, Syria. [126] The second part of the report was adopted by 37 votes to 3, with 5 abstentions and 13 absent. [127] The PRESIDENT — The motion is carried. We shall therefore conclude the business of the action of this report on the report of the Credentials Committee. The meeting rose at 1.14 p.m.