495 OFF TAT A NY ET EEN Sn ETL A Taro VI-7 [74] Mr. MASON (New Zealand) moved the adoption of a resolution in the following terms: The General Conference, Taking note of the value of the work of the non- governmental organizations and of the value of their collaboration with Unesco, (a) Refers resolutions I to VIII, submitted in docu- ment 6C/OXR/14, to the Executive Board for report to the Seventh Session of the General Conference, and (b) Refers resolution IX, submitted in document
6C/OXR/14, to the Executive Board for its decision. [75] The ‘resolution was unanimously adopted. The meeting rose at 7 p.m. SEVENTH MEETING Wednesday, } July 1951, at 10 a.m. Chairman: Mr. F. G. Mameri (Italy) Communication by the Chairman. [1] The CHAIRMAN announced that Japan and Cambodia had officially accepted the Unesco Consti- tution and consequently their delegations would have full voting rights. Application of the Directives concerning Rela- tions with International Non-Governmental Organizations (document 6C/OXR/16). [2] Mr. SOMMERFELT (Representative of the Ex- ecutive Board) explained that the amendment pro- posed in the last paragraph of the document was designed to meet the difficulty outlined in para- graph (3) on page 2. [3] Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) asked what had been the experience with regard to the frequency of requests from non-governmental organizations for approval of a change of programme. [4] Mr. SOMMERFELT (Representative of the Ex- ecutive Board) said that quite a number of such requests had been received. The representative of the Director-General might be in a better position to give details. [5] Mr. CATES (United States of America) was in favour of maintaining the Directives already in force with regard to non-governmental organizations. They had been in existence barely a year. He had not heard any evidence to justify any particular change. [6] Mr. SOMMERFELT (Representative of the Ex- ecutive Board) explained that the change had been proposed in order to avoid any possible misuse of subventions. [7] Mr. CUMMINS (Australia), with reference to the text which it was proposed should replace para- graph 6 of Section III.E. (document 6C/OXR/16, page 2), said he did not see any mention of the point which had engaged the attention of the Working Party at the Florence Conference on which he had served, namely, that if an organization received a subvention which was not entirely utilized during the course of the year, the surplus would be taken into consideration when a new subvention was applied for. He therefore proposed the following addition, at the end of the proposed new paragraph in question: Any funds approved as being carried forward shall be taken into consideration if a subvention is applied for or granted during the following year. [8] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations Service) pointed out the difficulty which faced the Executive Board in permitting subventions granted for a given year to be used at the beginning of the following year. For instance, if a subvention was granted to an organization for 1952, the decision was taken by the Executive Board in October 1951; but it was only at the beginning of 1952, say in January or February, that the Organization could inform the Board that any funds remained over from the preceding year. Any surplus would have to be carried over the second year following the granting of a subvention. [9] Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium) rémarked that A Z T A p e П О ي ج д‏ е е أ [ ‎    O FFT CI AL AND application of the existing Directives had raised insuperable difficulties and it was therefore necessary to relax the regulations already in force, as the Executive Board recommended. [10] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations Service) suggested the substitution in the Australian amendment, of the word “subsequently” for the words “during the following year.” [11] The amendment was adopted by 30 votes in favour with one abstention, in the following terms: Any funds approved as being carried forward shall be taken into consideration if a subvention is applied for or granted subsequently. [12] The paragraph as a whole was adopted unanimously. [13] With regard to the second amendment pro- posed by the Executive Board (page 3, last para- graph), Mr. CHANDIRAMANI (India) joined with the Australian delegate in hoping that the Directives adopted in Florence would not be radically altered. It was normal that the body which authorized sub- ventions should have the opportunity of considering any changes made in the subsidized programme. He proposed the following amendment: in the last line, after the word “approval”, to add: of the Executive Board on the proposal of the Director- General. In case of emergency, the Director-General may, at his discretion, grant such an authorization and report the same to the Executive Board at its next meeting. [14] Mr. CATES (United States of America) was opposed to any change in the Directives adopted at Florence, but if such a change was considered necessary, then he preferred the wording proposed by the Indian delegate. [15] The Indian amendment was approved by
26 votes in favour, with 4 abstentions. [16] The proposal of the Executive Board, as amended by the Indian delegation, was approved by 22 votes to 6, with 3 abstentions. Subventions to International Non-Governmental Organizations. Proposal of the United States Delegation (document 6C/DR/64). [17] Mr. SOMMERFELT (Representative of the Executive Board) thought that there was general agreement with regard to the substance of the United States proposal. He pointed out, however, that Section IV, paragraph (5) of the Directives EXTERN   AL NDS 426 concerning Relations with International Non- Governmental Organizations already covered the point with regard to the review of the use of sub- ventions. The last report submitted was of 300 pages, and if it was proposed to submit such a report more often than was provided in the Directives, it would lay a heavy burden on the Secretariat and would also entail considerable additional expense. [18] Mr. CATES (United States of America) ex- plained that his delegation’s proposal was designed to ensure that the subventions granted by Unesco te non-governmental organizations were actually being used for purposes related to Unesco’s own budget. It was not necessary to have lengthy reports. The information called for in the amendment was, he believed, actually available in the Secretariat; Mr. Cates wished to ensure that it should be available to delegates. [19] Mr. Cates called attention to the omission, in line 6 of paragraph (2) of the document, of the words “Section III” after the words “Part C”. [20] Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) strongly supported the United States delegate’s observations. It was necessary to have further detailed information upon the nature and type of work carried out with the help of Unesco subventions and to ensure that the work was related to the Unesco programme as laid down in the various parts of the Directives. [21] Mr. de CLEMENTI (Italy) thought it logical that the General Conference should examine at each session the activities of subsidized non-governmental organizations, just as it did the work of Member States and of the Secretariat. For that reason, the Italian delegation endorsed the proposal of the United States of America. [22] Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium) recalled that, under Section III.E (4) of the Directives, organi- zations receiving subventions had to submit to Unesco full reports and accounts setting out the way in which the funds granted had been spent. Those documents were kept by the Secretariat at the dis- posal of each delegation. Furthermore, every three years the Executive Board presented a report to the General Conference stating the use to which grants had been put. [23] However, in a spirit of conciliation, the Belgian delegation would be willing to accept the United States proposal for a tighter control, pro- vided item (b) of paragraph 2 were made to read: “(b) briefly outlining the contribution of their activities to the realization of Unesco’s programme . [24] Mr. de ALBA (Mexico) said that the proposal of the United States delegation contained several , | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | E on thd ne [24 ren th ful sun in the Ex the [24
427 0-217 1 07! ‎لال 40 points worthy of consideration. One of them re- ferred to the congratulations to be extended to the Director-General for his efforts at fruitful co-ordina- tion of work with non-governmental organizations in the furtherance of Unesco's programme. The work of those organizations showed the interest which Unesco had aroused, and they were to be encouraged. Unesco’s programme was of such wide scope that it could not be carried out by solely bureaucratic methods, but required the collaboration of non-governmental organizations. [25] The speaker thought that the United States proposal contained further valuable elements deserv- ing consideration. Similar reasons informed the amendment of the Belgian delegation for the suppression of the last paragraph of the motion in question in order that it should not be too categorical or unduly peremptory. It was essential to avoid imposing over-strict measures upon non-govern- mental organizations. An attempt should be made instead to encourage them in their activities and ask them to submit an annual summary report on their work so as to allow the Director-General and the various Departments of Unesco to be apprised of the situation in each country. Such a simple annual report might also help to avoid useless duplication of work. In any case, nothing more should be required of them, and accordingly the Mexican representative asked that the Belgian amendment should be approved. [26] Mr. SOMMERFELT (Representative of the Executive Board) said that, if the Belgian amend- ment were adopted, the situation would be that, at every third session of the General Conference, there would be a complete report on the activities of non- governmental organizations. At the two intervening sessions, more summary reports would be submitted. That appeared to him feasible, and he thought it met the request of the United States delegation. [27] Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium) remarked that section IV (5) of the Directives provided for the Executive Board to submit a report every three years on the way in which subventions had been used. If the biennial system were adopted, it would be necessary to change the frequency of those reports. [28] Mr. CATES (United States of America), replying to the Belgian and Mexican delegates, said that, if the non-governmental organizations did not fulfil the conditions, then they should not receive subventions. Moreover, if any errors had been made M granting subventions, they would be seen from the reports. The frequency of sessions of the Executive Board was a matter for study in relation to the frequency of Conference sessions.
(29] Mr. de CLEMENTI (Italy) endorsed the EXTERNAL RELATIONS VI-7 remarks of the United States delegate. It was well for the General Conference to know how successful subsidized organizations were in carrying out their work. Therefore, the Italian delegation did not think it necessary to change the last paragraph in the United States proposal. [30] Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) said that, as he understood the United States proposal, all that was asked for was a report at the General Conference's next session. It was not suggested that there should be a report at every session. A report of the type called for by the United States amendment would have been most useful to the Commission when considering the formal agreements concluded with certain international non-governmental organizations (document 6C/OXR/12). [31] Mr. BOUCHARD (France), speaking on behalf of the French delegation, endorsed the Belgian amendment and requested the Commission to discuss the United States proposal paragraph by paragraph. He noted furthermore that that proposal did not provide for the Director-General's presenting a report on the subject at each session of the Confer- ence. [32] The CHAIRMAN put to the vote paragraph 1 of the United States proposal (document 6C/DR/64). [33] That paragraph was adopted unanimously, save for one abstention. [34] Mr. KING (United Kingdom) said that he was unable to support the Belgian delegate’s sug- gestion with regard to paragraph 2 (b) of the resolution. He would, however, propose the omission of the words “the accomplishment of” in the last line of paragraph 2. [35] That amendment was accepted by Mr. CATES (United States of America). [36] Mr. de ALBA (Mexico) gave his support to the amendment presented by the United Kingdom delegation. If the words “the accomplishment of” were omitted, the paragraph would be more suitable and could be voted upon at once. [37] There were non-governmental organizations which could not submit a report on work accom- plished each year. Some of the work depended on research, and research could not always give imme- diate results. [38] The organizations should be allowed to do their work and, in that respect, he endorsed the United Kingdom amendment. [39] The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the amend-         VI-7 CEEI ANDEAN AE UE Os ment of the Belgian delegation, which suggested a change in paragraph 2 (b) of the United States proposal. [40] The amendment was rejected by 21 votes to 14. [41] Mr. CHELOUCHE (Israel) suggested that the words “to the next General Conference” should be omitted from the first sentence of paragraph (2). [42] Mr. de CLEMENTI (Italy) endorsed the amendment, which would establish the presentation of reports to the General Conference as a general rule. [43] Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium) opposed that amendment as going much further that the United States proposal, which asked only that the report should be submitted at the next session of the Conference. [44] Mr. MASON (New Zealand) supported the Belgian delegate’s proposal. If the sense were con- fined to the next session only of the Conference, it would then be possible to see what extra work was called for and whether the review should be made annually, biennially or triennially. [45] Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) supported the Belgian and NewZealand delegates’ observations. [46] Mr. EUSTATHIADES (Greece) said that he would adhere to the original proposal of the United States delegation. In his opinion it was not meant to establish a definite rule, but would only be tried out at the next session. [47] Mr. CHELOUCHE (Israel), in agreement with the Italian delegate, withdrew his proposal. [48] The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the amend- ment to paragraph 2 (b) of the resolution presented by the United Kingdom and accepted by the United States delegation. [49] The amendment proposed by the United Kingdom was adopted unanimously by 33 voters. [60] The whole of the United States proposal, thus amended, was adopted unanimously by the 33 voters. Resolutions on Co-ordination adopted by the United Nations (document 6C/OXR/5 and adden- dum). Maintenance of International Peace and Security (document 6C/DR/80). [51] Mr. BERKELEY (Deputy Head, External
1 Relations Service) described the first document | before the Commission (document 6C/OXR/5) as | being of an informative character, while dealing also with matters referred to the Programme and the Administrative Commission. [52] The draft resolution- (document 6C/DR/80) 7 presented by France, Greece, Haiti, the Philippines, Turkey, the United Kingdom and the United States of America with reference to emergency action to assist in the maintenance of international peace and security came under the first part of the addendum to the document. [53] The second part of the addendum contained suggestions by the Secretary-General of the United Nations which would be presented to the Procedure Committee. [54] A decision by the Programme Commission with regard to the third part would be reported later. 1 [65] With regard to the first part of the addendum, it would be observed that the action originated with a resolution of the United Nations General Assembly [377(5)]. Its main purpose was, in cases where peace was endangered and the Security Council was unable to take action, to enable the General Assembly to make recommendations to its Members for the maintenance or restoration of peace. Whereas the action of the Security Council was binding, action taken by the Assembly under resolution 377(V) was in the nature of a recommendation. [66] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) briefly | explained the United Kingdom delegation’s attitude f to the draft resolution (document 6C/DR/80). His country had always maintained that requests by the | General Assembly were not binding on Members of | the United Nations and furthermore that the draft resolution did not affect the freedom of Members | of Unesco in relation to requests by the General |! Assembly. | [57] Sir John agreed that Unesco should be ready to co-operate with the United Nations and that the | Director-General should be authorized, as stated on page 2, paragraph 2, of document 6C/DR/80, to facilitate understanding of the mature and back- ground of United Nations action in so far as the] character and Constitution of Unesco allowed. | [58] Sir John did not believe that Unesco should take over the functions of the United Nations and its | Public Information Department. Unesco should in ( no sense be made a propaganda machine. That was | not the intention of the draft resolution (document |
6C/DR/80) and if it had been, he would not have À supported it. On the contrary, it safeguarded the | essential character of Unesco. If it were passed, | there would be no departure from the proper role | of Unesco, nor did it invite the Board to adventure ( into the field of propaganda. He did not consider
429 CE FT CIAL AND XT ANN A TREATY ONE VET that the wording of paragraph 2 of the draft resolu- tion involved any duplication with the United Nations Public Information Department. [69] Mr. CATES (United States of America) said that Unesco had before it a request from the Eco- nomic and Social Council on a matter of great importance to the United Nations, Unesco and the world at large. Basic to that request was Unesco's relationship to the United Nations as one of its Specialized Agencies. Unesco’s role as a Specialized Agency of the United Nations had always been taken seriously, as was testified, in particular, by the reference in the draft programme to the endeavour to increase its contribution to the maintenance and consolidation of peace. It was therefore worth while considering the formal structure and background against which the problem of the Commission should be examined. [60] Mr. Cates illustrated his point with quotations from the United Nations Charter, in particular from Article 1, relating to effective collective measures for the prevention and removal of threats to peace; Article 2, paragraph (2) and (5), concerning the fulfilment by all Members of the obligations assumed . by them, andthe assistance to be given by them to the United Nations; Article 63, providing for agree- ments with the Specialized Agencies and defining the terms of the relationships between them and the United Nations; and Article 48 (2), referring to the action required to carry out the decisions of the Security Council for the maintenance of international peace and security. [61] Unesco’s own Constitution fitted in to that framework of obligations of Members of the United Nations and, in that connexion, he pointed out that Articles IT and X of the Constitution were particu- larly relevant to the question at issue. Moreover, Article VIII of the Agreement between Unesco and the United Nations specifically recognized the special function of the Security Council in connexion with the maintenance of peace, as well as Unesco’s own wish to co-operate with the United Nations by ren- dering assistance to the Security Council in carrying out the latter's decisions for the maintenance or restoration of international peace and security. [62] Turning to the situation which had led to the adoption in the United Nations General Assembly of the so-called Uniting for Peace resolution [377(V)], Mr. Cates pointed out that the most important paragraphs were those set out on page 8 of document 6C/OXR/5, Add. 1, providing for immediate consideration of a question by the General Assembly in cases where the Security Council failed to exercise its primary responsibility. That implied that the Assembly was recognized as an appropriate body to act in a field in whichit had originally been envisaged that Security Council action alone would suffice. [63] The Economic and Social Council, having regard to the importance of the relationship between the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies, had adopted resolution [363(XITT)] set out in docu- ment 6C/OXR/5, Add. 1, page 1, and it was apparent that a specific reference to General Assembly requests with regard to the maintenance of peace would have been included in the Unesco-United Nations Agree- ment had that resolution existed at the time of the conclusion of the Agreement. [64] As for the problem before the Commission, set out in the document underdiscussion, the United States delegation believed that it could have been met by the first alternative proposed by the Secre- tary-General of the United Nations, namely a simple amendment to the Agreement between Unesco and the United Nations. His delegation would, however, be satisfied with action on the basis of the resolu- tion proposed in document 6C/DR/80. The prob- lem itself had come before several other Specialized Agencies, which had possibly failed to understand fully the basic purposes of the General Assembly’s resolution. The request of the Economic and Social Council, however, offered Unesco another op- portunity showing itself a unique organization. That idea had guided members of the Executive Board and the Director-General, as was shown by a number of passages in the draft programme for
1952, in particular on pages 13 and 14 of the draft, and in the references to teaching about the United Nations and Specialized Agencies. The way in which the United Nations had met the challenge to its basic principles in Korea had given new emphasis to the concept of collective security, and in carrying out its educational programme on that subject at the end of 1950, Unesco had taken the opportunity of making teaching about collective security a vigourous reality in the classroom. [65] Hence Mr. Cates believed that the proposal before the Commission was in accordance withall Unesco's legal, moral and programme obligations and objectives. It was strictly limited to Unesco's educational role, and it would avoid duplicating action with the United Nations. It therefore seemed logical to act in accordance with the latter’s request, extending to the United Nations the same co- operation in that field as was already extended to the Security Council; it also seemed appropriate that Unesco, which had emerged as unique among the Specialized Agencies, should be outstanding in making a simple and direct response to the United Nations’ simple and straightforward request. It was difficult to believe that any Member of Unesco would fail to support the United Nations aim in that matter, —     VI-7 077 71 AND and the United States delegation therefore hoped that the co-operative move would have the unanimous support of Members of the Organization. [66] Mr. LUCET (France), on behalf of the French delegation, urged the Commission to adopt the draft resolution (document 6C/DR/80) by a vote as nearly as possible unanimous. [67] The French Government had always supported the independence of Unesco, which, as an Organi- zation of free men, should remain unaffected by the fluctuations of international politics. Therefore, the French delegation could not support a draft resolution which would tend to make Unesco a pro- paganda agency. However, the text submitted to the Commission avoided that danger by stating in para- graph 1 of the operatives clauses that the Organi- zation was to co-operate “within the limits of competence as defined by the Constitution. . .” [68] In conclusion, the French delegate proposed that in the seventh line of paragraph 2 of the French text, the words “les circonstances” should be re- placed by “la portée”. [69] Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) backed the draft resolution wholeheartedly. He knew that the pro- posal carried certain risks, but there should be no hesitation to take those risks. Unesco might be accused of making propaganda, but propaganda was not reprehensible if it was sincere. The Catholic Church was an example, with its committee for the propagation of faith. The resolution would give a more concrete form to Unesco’s efforts. The activities of the Organization reminded him of Talleyrand’s dictum that it was an advantage in life not to have done anything, provided the maxim were not carried too far. The time had come to give the lie to sceptics. Independence did not imply indif- ference. Lastly, the Lebanese representative sug- gested making a drafting amendment to paragraph 2 of the operative clauses of the draft resolution by substituting, in the French text, the words “faire comprendre à l’opinion publique” for “faire com- prendre au grand public”. [70] Mr. EUSTATHIADES (Greece) thought that, after the clear explanations just heard, no one could doubt the exact compass of the resolution. It was not a question of making propaganda but of keeping Unesco’s action within the role of educator at a time when peace was threatened. [71] Unesco was a Specialized Agency of a parti- cular character, and education, science and culture were the means of gaining its main goal—the main- tenance of international peace and security. Con- sequently, its Constitution was in full accord with the United Nations Charter, and it would be failing in its mission if, at such a critical moment, it preached neutrality. EXTERNAL 430RELATIONS [72] No one had ever thought that the United Nations and Specialized Agencies should falter before the legal difficulties which made it impossible for the Security Council to preserve peace and inter- national security. Those were difficulties which the General Assembly of the United Nations was striving to lessen. By adopting the draft resolution as nearly as possible unanimously, Unesco would manifest its intention not to be a neutral organization, for that would run counter to the spirit of its Constitution. [73] Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium), on behalf of the Belgian delegation, gave his full support to the draft resolution. [74] In its resolution 362 B (XII), the Ecanomic and Social Council invited “the Specialized Agencies, within the framework of their respective constitu- tions, to take any steps they consider necessary” when peace was threatened. Unesco therefore had to exercise caution so as not to step outside its com- petence as defined in its Constitution. It was also necessary to distinguish between what each Member State of the United Nations might be able to do in the field of teaching and what Unesco was bound to do in its own specific field of education. [75] With regard to wording, the Belgian represen- tative supported the French delegation’s amendment to substitute the word “scope” for “background” in paragraph 2. In the same paragraph he suggested amending the French text to read: “Principalement dans le domaine de l'éducation”, instead of “notam- ment”. Finally, to avoid any suspicion of propa- ganda, he wished to amend the text again to read: “widespread and impartial understanding of the nature and background. . .” [76] Mr. de ALBA (Mexico) stated that, among the Technical and Specialized Agencies, Unesco wasin the best position to contribute constructively to the main- tenance of peace. Unesco’s activities were clearly directed towards that end, and all the efforts made by the Organization for some time past deserved unanimous recognition. Unesco's goal was to maintain world peace based on justice, using its moral resources and means of persuasion. The speaker was of the opinion that the text was not incompatible with Unesco’s policy. [77] Furthermore, the document before the Com- mission had been drawn up in the same terms as the resolution of the Economic and Social Council. In that same text every care was taken to keep Unesco within its prescribed limits of competency and budgetary appropriations and to prevent it from straying on to dangerous ground. [78] The speaker believed that, in order to empha- size more clearly the character of the proposed re- solution, it would be well to modify the wording of the second item, for example, by accepting the Belgian representative's suggestion to substitute a    OF EF/LCT AL AND more concrete phrase for the vague words: “through education and other appropriate means”. Unesco, in accordance with its Constitution, its programme and its very nature, had sufficient means to carry out its mission of maintaining peace, a mission consistent with the Charter of the United Nations, in which there was mention of mediation, concilia- tion and good offices, terms which described functions Unesco was well qualified to exercise. [79] Mr. de Alba added that Unesco should take the role of mediator and friendly arbitrator without being led into ambiguous political situations which might detract from the value of that mission. [80] Each organization, furthermore, had its own function and its own field of action. If it were a question of forming public opinion, then recourse could be had to the United Nations Public Informa- tion Department. Unesco’s mission, however, had its forerunner in the pre-war campaigns conducted EXTERNAL RELATIONS VI-8 by the Institute: of Intellectual Co-operation in the cause of moral disarmament and social education for peace. [81] In approving the resolution, the members of the Commission should bear in mind that they were taking a very important step. That step would pro- mote tolerance and friendly understanding among men as well as establish a groundwork of justice on which to build human relations. [82] In conclusion, the Mexican representative hoped that no member of the Commission would oppose the adoption of the proposal. The Mexican delegation stood solidly behind the Belgian dele- gation’s suggested amendment. [83] Further discussion was postponed until the next meeting. The meeting rose at 1 p.m. EIGHTH MEETING Friday, 6 July 1951, at 10.30 a.m. Chairman: Mr. F. G. Mamerr (Italy) Resolutions on Co-ordination Adopted by the United Nations. Item 10.5.2 of the Agenda (document 6C/OXR/5, and Add. 1).
1. Maintenance of International Security (continuation). Peace and [1] The CHAIRMANsaid that the Commission was to resume the discussion of the draft resolution (document 6C/DR/80) presented by the United States of America, France, Haiti, the Philippines, the United Kingdom and Turkey. [2] Mr. MASON (New Zealand) agreed with the United Kingdom and French delegations that there was nothing in the resolution which would involve Unesco in anyform of propaganda. The Organization was bound by its Agreement with the United Nations to co-operate with the Security Council. The resolu- tion had its origin in the fact that situations might arise where the Security Council was unable to act. The first of the Specialized Agencies to tackle the problem had been the World Health Organization, Which had passed a resolution substantially the same as the text before the Commission. It was true that there had been some abstentions in WHO, but that was because there had not been sufficient time to study the resolution. He was prepared to give his wholehearted support to the principle of the docu- ment (6C/DR/80), although one or two drafting alterations were necessary. [8] Mr. de CLEMENTI (Italy) stated that his dele- gation was entirely in favour of the proposed resolu- tion. In answer to certain speakers who had ex- pressed the fear that such a resolution might be interpreted as propaganda, he pointed out that “pro- paganda” meant the propagation of something, and that Unesco was quite entitled to propagate whatever concerned the maintenance of peace and more parti- cularly the respect for international law. [4] Peace was not only a natural human aspiration, but also a moral law, and the Italian delegation con- sidered that it could never be too stoutly defended. [6] Mr. CHEDIAK (Cuba) was opposed to any restrictive interpretation of the resolution, which he fully supported. [6] Mr. Chediak took his stand on various con- stitutional and legal arguments, citing Article X and