283 PROGRAMME IV-4١5-17011011750.707 FOURTH MEETING Thursday, 28 June 1951, at 9.30 a.m. Chairman: Mr. JEAN PraceT (Switzerland) Appointment of the Working Party to Prepare Lists of States Considered as Forming Regions. [1] The CHAIRMAN called upon the United King- dom, the United States of America, France, Vene- zuela, India and Lebanon to constitute the Working Party responsible for preparing lists of States con- sidered as forming regions, which would then be invited by Unesco to various regional conferences. [2] The membership of the Working Party was approved. The Working Party was to appoint its Chairman and report to the Programme Commission on Monday, 2 July. [3] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL observed that the report should also be submitted to the Official and External Relations Commission, as the question of a ‘possible decentralization of certain of Unesco’s activities was on its agenda, and the findings of the Working Party would be of great interest to it. The report might be submitted to a joint meeting of Working Parties of both Commissions. Discussion of the Draft Programme for 1952 (continuation) [document 6C/5 (T) J. Education (continuation). EDUCATION AND THE SPECIAL PROBLEMS OF CHILDREN. Item 1.251. [4] Recalling that the Commission had already voted on the item, the CHAIRMAN observed that it had next to take a decision on the two Italian amendments thereto (documents 6C/DR/53 and
6C/DR/59). He drew attention to the three main ideas contained in the amendments: that the prob- lem of children’s mental health was of concern to both secondary and primary schools; that, in preparing for the Conference, consideration should be given to the relations between home and school education; that the establishment and development of schools of social service should be encouraged, and that the interest of all institutions concerned with child welfare in general should be aroused. While the actual text of the resolution might be left unchanged, specific reference might be made to those three ideas in the work plans. [5] The procedure proposed by the Chairman was accepted by the delegate of Italy and adopted. Item 1.252. [6] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu- cation) suggested that a saving of $6,052 might be made on the item, by having part of the work done by the Secretariat. [7] Miss DUPRAZ (Switzerland) urged that, in carrying out items 1.251 and 1.252, all organizations dealing with problems of children’s mental health should be asked to assist in the preparations for the Conference. [8] Item 1.252 was adopted, with a reduction of $6,052 in the budget estimate. EDUCATION FOR INTERNATIONAL UNDERSTANDING. Item 1.811, together with document 6C/PRG/6. [9] Mr. RACKHAM (United Kingdom) said that his delegation heartily supported the proposal, but thought that it was relevant to all Unesco’s work; he therefore proposed that it should be transferred to the general resolutions in section 8 of the Pro- gramme. [10] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL thought it an ex- cellent proposal and suggested that the item should be maintained, making specific reference to it among the general resolutions. [11] Item 1.312. Agreed. [12] The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the total costs for the item were $4,700 and that the Secre- tariat did not propose any reduction. [13] Item 1.312 was adopted.      IV-4 PROGRAMME Item 1.318. [14] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu- cation) announced that the Secretariat proposed a saving of $5,000 on the item. [15] The item, with the proposed reduction, was adopted. Item 1.31}. [16] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu- cation) stated that the Secretariat proposed a re- duction of $4,470, on temporary posts, as the work could be done by the Secretariat. [17] The item, with the proposed reduction, was adopted. Item 1.315. [18] The CHAIRMAN observed that there were no special costs for the item. [19] Mr. RACKHAM (United Kingdom) said his delegation would support the item, provided it was not taken to imply that it should be possible to improve textbooks in all countries by the direct action of governments. [20] Item 1.315 was adopted. Item 1.816. [21] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu- cation) stated that $3,700 might be saved on the item, if the proposed booklet or documents resulting from the seminar were duplicated instead of being printed. [22] Soliman HOZAYEN Bey (Egypt) spoke in support of the original resolution and was against the proposed alteration. An important aspect of Unesco's work was involved. He noted that the chief emphasis was given to Germany and Japan, which was only right in a sense, since it was ne- cessary to remedy the animosity instilled in the minds of the children of those States during and before the war. Nevertheless, the resolution also had a deeper meaning. Geography and history text- books provided the best meeting-ground for the ideas of East and West and could be used to make the way of life and thought of either hemisphere known to the children of the other. That could be done by encouraging accuracy in textbooks or by bilateral agreements. He would therefore like Unesco to take note of that aspect of the problem and proposed the adoption of the item as it stood. COMMISSION 284 [23] Mr. FRANCOIS (France) considered that the saving suggested by the Secretariat, to be effected by duplicating instead of printing the results of the seminar, was contrary to the wishes which the French delegation, as a result of past experi- ence, had expressed on several occasions. Having noticed that roneographed documents were never read or distributed, the French delegation had re- commended the publication of printed booklets, about 50 pages in length, which could be distributed widely in educational circles, helping teachers to put Unesco’s suggestions into practice. Mr. Francois urged that the results of the 1951 Seminar on the Teaching of History should be incorporated in a booklet of that kind. [24] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL recalled that it was only by making most regrettable cuts in the programme that the latter could be adjusted to the reduced budget estimates. He realized that there was much to be said for the French delegate’s argu- ment and he would accept the decision of the Pro- gramme Commission, but he felt bound to point out that such a measure would not make the Commis- sion’s task of adjusting the programme to the budget ceiling voted by the Conference any easier. [25] Mr. VILLALBA VILLALBA (Venezuela) said that the Technical Education Department in his country had adopted regulations, on 10 March 1950, laying down standards for the preparation of text- books. In accordance with the democratic prin- ciples of the Constitution, those regulations provided for the furtherance of understanding both within the nation and without. Everything which might prejudice universal human solidarity was to be avoided in textbooks. [26] Mr. CALO (Italy) seconded the remarks of the delegate of France and stressed the importance of exchanges of school textbooks between different countries. Referring to the proposed seminar, Mr. Calò hoped that it would bring together only really competent teachers, specializing in the dis- cipline concerned. [27] Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium), recognizing the necessity of economies, supported the Secretariat’s proposal; the main document alone should be pub- lished in printed form. [28] The delegates of France and Italy accepted the general opinion of the Commission (that a saving of $3,700 should be made by duplicating the report of the seminar; it was understood that the basic working document would be printed). [29] Item 1.316 was put to the vote and adopted, the budget estimate being reduced to $13,000.
121 It     PROGRAMME TEACHING ABOUT THE UNITED NATIONS AND THE SPECIAL- IZED AGENCIES. Items 1.821, 1.322 and 1.323. [30] The CHAIRMAN read the Budget Committee’s recommendations and drew attention to two amend- ments presented respectively by the United States delegation (document 6C/DR/16) and by the Italian delegation (document 6C/DR/52). [31] Mr. VERNIEKS (Representative of the Ex- ecutive Board) stated that the Board had considered the United States proposal and had expressed a favourable opinion. [32] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL added that the proposal entailed an increase of $4,000 for item
1.322. [33] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu- cation) explained that paragraph 2 of the United States proposal (document 6C/DR/16) would in- volve a net increase of $4,000, and the second half of paragraph 3 a net increase of $13,000, giving a total of $17,000. As regarded the latter part of the proposal, the Director of the Department of Mass Communication had informed the Executive Board that the funds of his Department which were avail- able for films could be used for the purpose there suggested. The Board had agreed to recommend in principle that the increase of $4,000 should be approved. [34] Mr. EKLUND (United States of America) stated that, in his delegation’s view, the question was one of the most important in which Unesco had direct responsibility. His delegation wished to lay special stress on the teaching of adults in connexion with item 1.321 and item 1.322, and that was the reason why the latter was expected to involve some additional cost. With regard to item 1.323, the United States delegation felt that it was particularly important that a simple documentary film should be available, the cost of which could be reduced by co-operation with the United Nations and other Specialized Agencies. While there were admittedly already films on the United Nations and the Agen- cies, it was felt that something was required which would be specially adapted to the age of the viewers. [35] Mr. Eklund added that he was in hearty sympathy with the proposed Italian amendment (document 6C/DR/52) and with that presented by the Austrian and Venezuelan delegations (docu- ment 6C/DR/62). [36] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out that, although the Executive Board had decided to recom- mend that the Programme Commission should ap- prove an increase of $4,000 in connexion with COMMISSION IV-4 paragraph 2 of the United States proposal, it had not considered the problem of the $13,000 increase in- volved in adopting paragraph 3 of the same proposal. The Secretariat was therefore free to support the proposal for the production of a documentary film on the structure and current programmes of the principal international organization and the Gen- eral Conference might well authorize the production of a film on teaching about the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies. Such a film had already been planned by the Department of Mass Communi- cation and was carried on its budget, but it might be produced by that Department in close consulta- tion with the Department of Education. The Director-General wished to make it clear in that connexion that Unesco’s various departments worked in close collaboration, each forming part of a whole. [37] Mr. MOHR (Norway) supported the United States proposal, in particular with regard to item
1.322. Attention should, however, be given to the Budget Committee’s remarks on the subject. As a member of an organization which normally received many pamphlets from other organizations, including Unesco, he suggesjed that Unesco's first task in the matter should be to co-ordinate such publications. [38] Hussein FAWZY Bey (Egypt) thought that such teaching could best be spread by the organi- zation of lectures for schools or adults. He himself had given talks of that kind, drawing upon the Conference Manual and the Programme, and he hoped that every delegation, on returning to its own country, would follow that simple method. [39] Sir Arcot L. MUDALIAR (India) regretted that in so many countries, particularly in Asia, the work of the United Nations and its Specialized Agencies was so little known and appreciated. It was particularly important that persons who were responsible for teaching schoolchildren should have a proper grasp of the aims of the United Nations. An organized attempt should therefore be made by Unesco and the other Agencies to produce whatever pamphlets might be needed to suit all sections of the population. Everything possible should be done under that head, and Sir Arcot felt sure that the results would be far in excess of any possible ex- penditure. [40] Mr. CALO (Italy) presented the Italian dele- gation’s amendment (document 6C/DR/52), sec- onded by the United States delegation. In his opi- nion, the most effective way of spreading teaching about the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies was to follow Italy’s example and introduce into the syllabus of all primary and secondary schools instruction in civics, even from the inter- national point of view.
14 PROGRAMME [41] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL thought the sug- gestion excellent and hoped that it would be accepted in principle and referred to the Drafting Committee for slight changes in wording. Some countries might hesitate to introduce such instruction into their. school syllabuses. Furthermore, the phrase “even from the international point of view” seemed rather derogatory. [42] The Italian delegate agreed to the procedure suggested. [43] This amendment was adopted, subject to draft- ing changes. [44] Ttem 1.321, together with the budget estimate of $4,200, was adopted. [45] The CHAIRMAN reminded the Commission that the Austrian and Venezuelan delegations had pre- sented a joint amendment (document 6C/DR/62) to item 1.322. The joint proposal replaced documents
6C/DR/13 and 6C/DR/18, submitted respectively by the delegations of Austria and Venezuela. [46] Mr. VERNIERS (Representative of the Ex- ecutive Board) observed that the Board had not had an opportunity of discussing document 6C/DR/62. [47] Mr. FRANCOIS (France), observing that such teaching had already been introduced into French schools, recognized that it was necessary, but was rather dismayed to see, in the comments following draft resolution 1.322 [document 6C/5 (I)], that it was proposed to teach children under eight about the United Nations and its Specialized Agencies. Mr. Francois did not think that children under 12 could derive any benefit from such teaching. Teach- ing about the United Nations should be introduced into syllabuses from the age of 12 onwards, but that did not mean that nothing should be done for younger children, and their case was covered in a general way by item 1.313. A seminar on the subject had been organized by Unesco in New York in 1948; it had lasted six weeks and had been attended by
50 specialists from 30 countries. Mr. Francois wondered whether it would not be better to make use of the findings of that seminar than to start all the work over again. [48] Mr. RACKHAM (United Kingdom) stated that his delegation entirely shared the French delegation’s view, and had been about to suggest that a saving might be made by eliminating the contracts under (i) and (ii) in the work plan. [49] Mr. THIRRING (Austria) agreed that the pro- ject was unseful, but did not share the views of those who felt that the measures proposed were suf- ficient for educating people for peace. To make a master-builder, it was not enough, to tell him stories COMMISSION 286 about Michelangelo; he had to be given a solid founda- tion of technical knowledge. Similarly, children should be endowed with a fund of knowledge about the human personality and about the causes which led to tension and maladjustment. The history of mankind was one long list of mistakes and errors, but man should learn from the past and apply those lessons to the future. Thus it was not enough to teach about the United Nations and to introduce special courses on psychology into curricula. The teaching of history, literature and the other humanities should be imbued with a scientific spirit, and teachers should be properly trained for that purpose. A handbook would shortly be issued in Austria, containing a list of some of the typical mistakes committed in the history of mankind and giving hints on the ways in which they might be corrected. It was not enough merely to impart knowledge, unless it was done with a view to correct- ing past mistakes in the light of modern psycho- logical knowledge. That was the prime task of human culture and should be one of Unesco’s main tasks as well. [30] Mr. VERNIERS (Representative of the Ex- ecutive Board) stated that the Board had not felt that it could recommend the adoption of document 6C/ DR/13, partly because of its considerable budgetary implications, and partly because many States would not wish to introduce the teaching of the elements of applied psychology into their curricula. [51] Referring to the Constitution, the CHAIRMAN recalled that Unesco had no right to interfere in the educational arrangements of the different States. Mr. CALÒ (Italy) shared the French dele- gation’s doubts of the utility of such teaching for young children not yet able to grasp abstract ideas. The World Federation of United Nations Associations had helped Unesco to organize several extremely successful seminars on teaching about the United [52] Nations, which had produced fruitful results. Mr. Calò thought that some reference should be made to those earlier seminars, and that the results they had achieved might be used in preparing for the proposed new seminar. [53] Mr. STODDARD (United States of America) said that it had certainly not been his delegation’s intention to eliminate any work done on behalf of children under eight, between the ages of eight and 12, or between 12 and 15, but merely to empha- size the importance of work for adults as well. Indeed, Mr. Elvin had, possibly unwillingly, con- siderably embarrassed all those who were concerned with work on behalf of children, when he had said, at the previous meeting, that there was only one item in the programme itended specifically for children. Mr. Stoddard felt that, if the education programme    PROG RAM ME meant anything at all—and he thought it meant a great deal—then it was intended mainly for children. He was sure, however, that, in view of the presence, in the hall, of Mr. Piaget, Chairman of the Com- mission and one of the world’s best-known child psychologists, and of Mr. Verniers, another of the great experts on the education of children, not to mention, many others, Mr. Elvin’s remark had been misinterpreted. It was obvious that if Unesco failed in its work, it would have reared only so many little monsters instead of children of whom those re- sponsible could to be proud. The whole of the work of the United Nations and its Agencies was directed less to the present than to the coming generations. Mr. Stoddard thought that Mr. Piaget and Mr. Ver- niers would both agree that children, especially below 8 and from 8 to 15, were very good learners, and indeed, for many children, there could be no organized opportunity of learning about the United Nations once they reached the age of 12 or 15, because in many of the more impoverished or “new” countries, compulsory education after those ages would be impossible for many decades to come. He therefore strongly supported the suggestions that had been made, as well as that put forward by his own delegation. [64] Mr. GABRIEL JEAN-FRANCOIS (Haiti) seconded the remarks of the United States delegate. The first six years of a child's life were the most important from the point of view of training; that was the time to inculcate certain fundamental ideas in his mind. The Haitian delegate was surprised at the attitude of the French and British delegations. The Regional Conference of National Commissions of the Western Hemisphere, held in Havana in De- cember, had discussed the problem; it had decided that the main subjects to be incorporated in such teaching were the history of efforts to achieve inter- national unity (the League of Nations, the Pan- American Union, the United Nations and its Special- ized Agencies); the aims and functioning of those institutions; general knowledge, acquired from books, films, etc., of countries belonging to the United Nations; the ideas of freedom, equality, social justice and respect for human rights. All those were subjects which could be incorporated in a general curriculum and presented in a simple, or more advanced form, according to the child’s age. [66] Mr. CASTRO LEAL (Mexico) supported the remarks of the United States representative. He said that compulsory education in Latin America and other continents, especially Asia, stopped at the age of 12 for many children. If those children were to be imbued with the ideals of the United Nations, it had to be done before they reached that age. How- ever, everything depended on the technical question whether such instruction would be worth while for children under the age of 8 or 12 years. The COMMISSION IV-4 Mexican delegation was willing to give its support to the United States proposal on clauses (i) and (ii) of the work plan under item 1.322, unless the realiza- tion of such a study could be proved to be useless or impractical. [56] Mr. THIRRING (Austria) said that, in the light of the Chairman’s remarks, he was ready to with- draw document 6C/DR/13 and to replace it by docu- ment 6C/DR/62, of which he had just spoken and which, he hoped, would obviate the difficulties raised by the Executive Board. He thanked the United States delegation for its support. [67] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion) asked leave to explain to Mr. Stoddard the mis- understanding which had risen over his remark of the previous day. The total figure for work done on behalf of children exceeded the costs of the item under discusion, but much of that work was not what the Secretariat called “specifically” directed at children. [58] As regarded the fears, expressed by the dele- gates of France and the United Kingdom, that un- suitable methods might be prematurely introduced in teaching, Mr. Elvin explained that teaching about the United Nations had, in the past, been very gener- al, as was also the publication resulting from the seminar mentioned by the French delegate. The Secretariat had therefore considered that the time had come to meet the representations frequently made to it by teachers that such teaching should be adapted to the various ages of the children taught. Unesco was anxious to carry the work further by obtaining suggestions from persons with the best understanding of the practical problems of teaching. [69] Mr. Elvin was not certain whether the joint proposal by the Austrian and Venezuelan delegations (document 6C/DR/62), was meant to apply to the teachers or the taught. [60] Mr. VILLALBA VILLALBA (Venezuela) thanked the delegations of the United States of America and Austria, as well as the other representatives who had endorsed the joint amendment, He said that, in point of fact, Venezuela had largely solved the prob- lem under discussion, as the regulations adopted in March 1950 provided for instruction on the United Nations to be included in textbooks. [61] Mr. Villalba Villalba concluded by saying that the Chairman’s authority as a psychologist might help to clear up the matter. [62] The CHAIRMAN drew attention to the very broad terms of item 1.322: the use of the word “edu- cation” (as in the French text) instead of the word “teaching” should calm the fears of the French and British delegations. Such education might call for the use of active methods. Although himself in favour of the psychological methods advocated in      IV-4 PROGRAMME the Austrian and Venezuelan amendment, the Chair- man felt that the Commission was not competent to decide on that point, and should simply vote on the amendment. [63] The Austrian and Venezuelan amendment (document 6C/DR/62) was rejected by 15 votes to
9, with 2 abstentions. [64] The budgetary increase of $4,000 entailed by the adoption of paragraph 2 of the United States amendment (document 6C/DR/16) was approved by 32 votes, to 2, with 3 abstentions. [65] The total costs for item 1.322 ($6,000, plus the $4,000 entailed by the United States amendment) were approved by 25 votes, to 3, with 4 abstentions. [66] Item 1.323 was adopted. [67] At the suggestion of Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece), seconded by the delegate of Mexico, it was decided to take a vote by roll-call on the additional estimate of $13,000 which would result from the adoption of the United States’ proposal in paragraph 3 of docu- ment 6C/DR/16, relating to item 1.323. [68] Voted in favour: Afganistan, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Greece, Haiti, Honduras, India, Lebanon, Mexico, Panama, Philippines, Salvador, Thailand, United States of America, Uruguay. Voted against: Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Denmark, Egypt, France, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Italy, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Sweden, Turkey, Union of South Africa, United Kingdom, Venezuela, Yugoslavia. Abstained: Austria, Bolivia, Burma, Monaco, Switzerland. Absent: Ceylon, Colombia, Costa Rica, Czechoslo- vakia, Ecuador, Guatemala, Hashemite Jordan, Korea, Liberia, Pakistan, Peru, Saudi Arabia, Syria. [69] The United States’ proposal was rejected by
21 votes to 15, with 6 abstentions. Indonesia, [70] Mr. EKLUND (United States of America) re- called that the original United States proposal (document 6C/DR/16) had been for an increase in the number of documentary films. As the Director- General had indicated that such an increase was being planned, Mr. Eklund wondered whether, in spite of the adoption of item 1.323 in its existing form, the particular film proposed by his delegation would be produced, and funds earmarked for it, in the Department of Mass Communication. [71] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL having replied in the affirmative, the budget of $16,950 for item 1.323 was adopted. COMMISSION EDUCATION AND HUMAN RIGHTS. Item 1.331 and document 6C/DR/65. [72] The CHAIRMAN explained that the draft resolution contained in document 6C/DR/65 would, if adopted, be included among the general resolu- tions. [73] The document and item 1.331 were approved unanimously. Ttem 1.332. [74] The CHAIRMAN observed that the Commission had two amendments before it, one from the United States delegation (document 6C/DR/24) and the other from the Italian delegation (document 6C/ DR/51). [75] Mr. VERNIERS (Representative of the Ex- ecutive Board) observed that the purpose of the United States’ proposal was that national and re- gional seminars for teachers should be organized with a view to developing active methods for edu- cation in world citizenship. The budgetary implica- tions were $12,800. The Executive Board had not felt justified in approving the proposal and had re- commended the maintenance of the item as it stood. [76] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out that the United States’ proposal in document 6C/DR/46, which replaced that in document 6C/DR/24, involved a change in the proposal discussed by the Executive Board. It could be considered when the programme for 1953 and 1954 was being prepared, but it would be advisable to insert some reference to it in item
1.332, thus paving the way for future action. [77] Mr. EKLUND (United States of America) ex- plained that his delegation had proposed to with- draw document 6C/DR/24, substituting for it docu- ment 6C/DR/46, which took account af the additional facts brought to its knowledge. [78] The draft resolution in document 6C/DR/51 was rejected by 18 votes to 1 with 8 abstentions. [79] The draft resolution in document 6C/DR/46 was adopted, for inclusion among the general resolu- tions, by 35 votes, with 2 abstentions. [80] Soliman HOZAYEN Bey (Egypt) thought that the organization of the seminar was useful, but felt—and he hoped that all would be in agreement with him—that in working it out an endeavour should be made to explain Human Rights in their historical or cultural settings. There was a tendency       PROGRAMME to regard the Declaration of Human Rights as some- thing new, whereas to the peoples of the East it was very old. Human Rights had been established at various stages in the history of man, especially in the phases of spiritual and religious movements of the East. It would be of greater interest to the peoples of the East to make it clear that Human Rights were related to their own history than merely to present them as something deriving from the West or evolved by the United Nations. [81] Mr. FRANCOIS (France) moved the insertion of the words “primary and” between “teachers in” and “secondary schools. . . .” [82] Approved. [83] The resolution, as amended, was adopted. [84] The total estimate of $56,695, on which the Secretariat had proposed no reduction was approved. Items 1.34 to 1.344. [85] The CHAIRMAN proposed that consideration of item 1.34 and the following items (Youth Move- ments and Organizations) should be postponed until the Working Party’s report on the subject had been received. The Commission might pass on to consider the criteria for the establishment of priorities. Criteria Adopted by the Economic and Social Council for the Establishment of Priorities in the Programmes of the United Nations and Specialized Agencies (continuation) (document
6C/PRG/2), together with a United States Proposal (document 6C/DR/61). [86] Mr. STODDARD (United States of America) appreciated the permission granted him to revert to the question, since his delegation considered it suf- ficiently important to warrant more than mere formal recognition. He was strongly in favour of complying with the request contained in the Economic and Social Council’s resolution, as set out in Annex I of document 6C/PRG/2, but thought it possibly illogical to consider it at the beginning of the pro- gramme. He would have preferred, on the whole, to consider the question of priorities in the process of examining the programme. He realized, however, that the most the Commission could do was to give high priority to certain items, and it was for that reason that the United States delegation had produced its resolution. While it would not be possible to re- port fully on the decisions taken to the July meet- ing of Ecosoc, it should be possible to report gener- ally on the action by the current Session of the General Conference, stating that arrangements would COMMISSION be made by the Executive Board and the Director- General to give effect to the recommendations. [87] The key words of the United States proposal were those in the sixth line, namely that “in recogni- tion of uncertain economic conditions or other emer- gency situations” which might arise, it should be possible for the Director-General and the Executive Board to take the necessary decisions without going counter to the Conference’s decisions. [88] Mr. MILLS (Australia) supported the United States proposal, and agreed that the Commission should do more than take formal note of the Ecosoc resolutions. Those who wished to fix priorities should explain how they were to be applied. [89] Speaking generally, however, Mr. Mills won- dered how the Commission stood with regard to the nine per cent cut in the budget. At its slow rate of progress, he feared the Commission would be led, at the end of its work, to make rush decisions, some of which it might afterwards regret. For him- self, he would find it easier to take decisions on the various items if, in addition to the comments of the Budget Committee, the Commission could also have the Secretariat’s comments before it in writing. Items on which there was no comment could then be adopted without discussion. [90] Mr. MANACH (Cuba) endorsed the draft resolution presented by the United States of America on the strength of the reasons set forth in the text and the verbal statements of the United States represen- tative. He considered, however, that the proposal was not quite clear in regard to the first priority and felt that greater precision was necessary. [91] With the exception of that one point, the Cuban delegate was prepared to support the request of the United States delegation. [92] Mr. BERNAL JIMENEZ (Colombia) expressed his support of the United States proposal, which was likely to promote the policy of concentration, that the Colombian delegation had always advocated. He wished to know, however, why the criteria for establishing priorities were based simply on the available resources and not on the inherent impor- tance of projects. [93] If the Colombian delegation could have an ex- planation of that point, it would be willing to endorse the United States delegation’s proposal without reserve. [94] Mr. STEWART (Union of South Africa) sup- ported the United States proposal, but suggested a more specific reference to the Co-ordination Com- mittee of the Economic and Social Council by adding to the fourth paragraph the words: “and taking into account the criteria set forth in the Co-ordination Committee of the Economic and Social Council”.      TV-4 PROGRAMME [95] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) supported the United States proposal, but thought that certain dangers should be borne in mind. If the proposal were adopted, the Commission might be tempted, in its later discussions, to be less careful than it should be. He was all in favour of having a second line of defence and asking the Board to constitué that line but, as Mr. Stoddard had himself said, it was impossible, in that place and a that time, to foresee what choice might be called for in 1952. The mem- bers of the Commission would be guilty of dereliction of duty, if they became careless or allowed anyresolu- tion to find a place in the 1952 Programme on the ground that the odious task of deciding whether or not it should be pursued could be left to the Board. All those present knew that the work of the Pro- gramme Commission called for considerable cou- rage in rejecting what were otherwise admirable pro- posals by fellow delegates, merely because their urgency was just a trifle less than that of those al- ready accepted; but such rejection was essential and should not be left to the Board. [96] Sir John also suggested that the wording of the resolution on first priority should be altered to read: Those projects which should have first call on Unesco’s funds and resources in order that significant results may be achieved in 1952. [97] Mr. CAIN (France) said that the French dele- gation had studied the United States proposal with great interest. It should be considered seperately by the Executive Board, as the mere fact that the United Kingdom delegation had submitted an amend- ment showed that the question required further study. By holding a longer and more detailed gen- eral discussion at the beginning of its work, the Com- mission might have avoided loss of time. Mr. Cain thought that the Executive Board should be asked to study the proposal, together with the United King- dom amendment, at the earliest possible moment. [98] Mr. VERNIERS (Representative of the Ex- ecutive Board) recalled that he had already referred delegates to the Introduction to the Draft Programme, which showed that neither the Executive Board nor the Secretariat had failed to follow the directives of the Co-ordination Committee and Ecosoc. He con- sidered that the criteria were observed in the Draft Programme. But a new factor had arisen—the budget ceiling had been fixed at a figure which made it necesary to reduce the programme. Mr. Ver- niers was in favour of convening the Executive Board to inform the Programme Commission of its views. He concluded by saying that he thought it would be wise, in organizing future sessions of the General Conference, to allow two or three days for a meeting of the Executive Board during the session. [99] Sir Arcot L. MUDALIAR (India) asked for COMMISSION 290 further clarification concerning the United States proposal. He agreed that the recommendations con- tained in the Ecosoc resolution should be borne in mind, but there was a considerable difference in the methods suggested by the United States delegation for deciding on first and second priorities. Indeed, after the discussions held so far, he wondered whether any of the resolutions would fall into the first category. Most of Unesco’s work was so planned that no one could say definitely when its results would become significant. He thought it would be more appropriate, in that instance, to apply the criterion suggested by Ecosoc, namely: were results likely to be significant in relation to the outlay of effort and financial resources, and were they likely to accrue within a reasonable time? It seemed unlikely that any of the projects would have specially significant results in 1952, and he therefore thought it better not to mention a time-limit in the resolution. [100] Sir Arcot was also afraid that certain fields of work might be wholly neglected if the resolution were put into effect. He was anxious that, if it were found impossible to carry out part of any project in, say, the programme of natural or social sciences, the other part of it should not for that reason be allowed to suffer, whereas, under the recommendation under discussion, almost the whole of a section might be eliminated. He thought it far more desirable to leave to the Director-General and the Executive Board the task of fixing priorities in any particular field, if necessary giving a second priority so as not to depart too far from the balance achieved in the prepared programme. [101] Mr. STODDARD (United States of America), replying to Mr. Verniers’ remarks, pointed out that the item had been put at the head of the Com- mission’s agenda, and he had therefore assumed that it had received all the necessary clearances from the Board. [102] Mr. Stoddard fully agreed to Sir John Maud's drafting amendment to the clause concerning first priority and proposed as a further amendment, sug- gested by the comments of Sir Arcot Mudaliar, to alter the end of the paragraph to read “that significant progress may be made in 1952”. [103] Mr. Stoddard entirely agreed with Sir John Maud that nothing could relieve the Commission of its responsibility, but he felt that there was something to be said for a final review of the programme in terms of an emergency situation. He did not share the Director-General’s fears that such a course would tend to upset the balance of the programme and budget, but thought that the Conference would thereby be in a better position to make on overall adjustment. [104] As regarded Mr. Stewart’s proposal, he pointed out that the phrase “criteria set forth in the report of the Co-ordination Committee” was already embodied in the first paragraph of the document . ص ر ب ‎ е е . т E S N E — — ] ] . ] — ] — ] ] — — ] ] — ] ] ] — ] ] ] С Т E E E م حا ا م ا ك ‎ T I T S н ь и е е е е         — . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . m m m e e e
291 PROGRAMME and he thought that that reference should suffice. It might be true, as Mr. Bernal Jiménez had said, that the classification was not sufficiently qualitative, but Mr. Stoddard thought that the Director-General and the Board should not be more closely tied than was already suggested. [105] Mr. PRUDENCIO (Bolivia) considered that the paragraph in the United States motion classifying matters as essential and less essential was not clear. All the items were essential and the programme should be carried out in its entirety. The financial resources might, however, prove to be inadequate, in which case certain projects would have to be given up in favour of others. [106] The important thing was to have a basis for determining just what items were to be sacrificed, and it was necessary to establish that basis before- hand, or classification would be difficult. [107] It was not possible to speak of essential and less essential items. Their importance usually depended on the exigencies of the moment, which often determined the relative urgency of projects. The judgment of the moment should be left to the Director-General, who was best qualified to decide what work should be carried out immediately and what would have to be abandoned. [108] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) thanked Mr. Stoddard for accepting his suggestion, and con- gratulated him on the further change, which he thought would meet the point made by Sir Arcot Mudaliar. He suggested yet a further alteration, which would draw attention to the different classes of priorities: the last line of the first priority para- graph might be altered to read: “. . the most significant progress possible in 1952”. [109] The United Kingdom delegation did not wish to vote on the matter until it had heard the views of the Director-General and given the Board a chance to consider and discuss the resolution, and he there- fore welcomed Mr. Cain’s suggestion that the vote should be postponed until a report had been received from the Executive Board, drawn up in the light of the Director-General’s comments. [110] Furthermore, Sir John Maud considered that, if the resolution were adopted, the Board should in due course, and after the end of the Conference, review the whole programme as adopted and attach a first or second priority to each of the items. In accordance with the penultimate paragraph of the resolution, the Director-General could then inform the July session of the Economic and Social Council that the resolution had been adopted. [111] Mr. CAIN (France) was grateful to the United Kingdom delegation for its support of his proposal to ask the Executive Board to consider the very important suggestion by the United States dele- gation as soon as possible. There was no question COMMISSION TV-4 of rejecting it but, in view of the many comments to which it had given rise, it obviously needed to be made clearer. The Executive Board should report to the Commission the following day. [112] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL did not alto- gether agree with the United States proposal, nor with all the suggestions put forward by the United Kingdom and France. The Executive Board con- sidered that account had been taken of Ecosoc's priority standards in the draft programme and, unless it received further instructions from the Conference, it could but repeat that opinion. The Director- General was somewhat uneasy at the tempo of the Conference’s work. He agreed with the suggestions of the United States delegation, but thought that they should be applied to future procedure and not to the current Session. If contributions received were not sufficient to enable the whole programme to be carried out, the Executive Board would have to meet at once and lay down criteria for the establishment of priorities, in order to avoid a deficit. The Director- General therefore supported part of the United States’ proposal, but was distressed to see the Conference relinquishing its right to establish priorities in the programme presented by the Executive Board. He asked how the Board could accomplish, in one even- ing, what the Programme Commission was unable to do in 20 meetings. It would mean a loss of prestige for the Commission if it proved incapable of adapting a programme prepared in accordance with the United Nations criteria to the budget voted by the Conference. The Director-General therefore requested that the United States’ proposal should be borne in mind for the future, but that the existing problem should be solved by the Conference itself. To assist it in its task, the Secretariat had proposed certain reductions. The Commission should be able to arrive at a programme containing nothing but essential activities; it could then instruct the Ex- ecutive Board to consider future priorities. [113] The Commission should make the necessary programme cuts, taking account of Ecosoc’s criteria, and should then recommend that, failing receipt of sufficient contributions, the Executive Board should make further cuts to avoid a deficit in the budget, bearing those criteria in mind. [114] The CHAIRMAN proposed that the Com- mission should meet the Director-General’s sugges- tions by the immediate adoption of a resolution on the first point and, at the end of its work, should address a resolution on the second point to the Executive Board. [115] Mr. STODDARD (United States of America) considered that to be the only possible procedure. He agreed with Sir John Maud that the Executive Board should examine the question in detail in its       IV-5 PROGRAMME own time. ment. He therefore agreed to revise the docu- [116] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL thought that the United States first proposal contained excellent points which could be taken up again in the second docu- ment. The Commission should pledge itself, by an immediate vote, to shoulder its responsibilities. [117] Mr. CAIN (France) noted that there was general agreement on the substance of the problem. In view of the different interpretations of the United States proposal, it was desirable that the Executive Board should consider it, in order to throw further light on the problem. Mr. Cain was convinced that, after studying the Board's report and on the basis of its suggestions, the Commission would be able to take a unanimous decision the following day. On the merits of the question, Mr. Cain supported the Director-General’s assertion: it was for the Confer- ence itself to establish the programme and priorities within it. [118] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL asked the United States delegate to present his resolution, revised in the light of the debate, to the Commission at its next meeting. He proposed that the Board should be con- vened only if the Commission failed to agree on the new text. [119] Speaking as a memberof the Executive Board, Mr. SEYDOUX (France) recalled that all new resolu- COMM 15 S T'ON tions should be handed in within the prescribed time- limit and submitted to the Executive Board for its opinion. So that, even if the United States delega- tion produced a new version of its resolution, which the French delegation supported in principle, the Ex- ecutive Board would still have to express its views on it. He wished to know the opinion of the representative of the Executive Board on that point. [120] The CHAIRMAN proposed the immediate adoption of the United Nations text (document 6C/ PRG/2), upon which the Commission would base its work; at the end of the session, the United States delegation could present a new resolution, already studied by the Executive Board and applying to the continuation of the Commission’s work. [121] Mr. VERNIERS (Representative of the Ex- ecutive Board) urged again that the Board be con- vened at once, not to draw up a list of priorities, but to exercise its right to study any new proposal submitted to the Conference. [122] As it had been agreed that the United States proposal required modification, the CHAIRMAN thought it unnecessary for the Board to study it. He again proposed the adoption of document 6C/PRG/2. [123] Document 6C/PRG/2 was adopted. The meeting rose at 17 p.m. FIFTH MEETING Thursday, 28 June 1951, at 3.30 p.m. Chairman: Mr. Jean PraceT (Switzerland) Discussion of the Draft Programme for 1952 (continuation) [document 6C/5 (1)]. Education (continuation). YourH MovEMENTS AND ORGANIZATIONS. Item 1.841. [1] The CHAIRMAN called for a vote on item 1.341 (Measures to encourage the activities of youth organi- zations and movements which promote the develop- ment of international relationships). The item in- volved no special expenditure. [2] Item 1.341 was adopted. [3] The CHAIRMAN next submitted an amend- ment (document 6C/DR/39), submitted by the French delegation, as a supplement to that resolu- tion. [4] The amendment, which had no budgetary im- plications, read as follows: