IV-10 PROGRAMME in which Member States pledge themselves to distribute copies of the said Outline to all children before gra- duation from Primary, Extended Primary and Secondary Schools respectively. [30] Mr. EVANS (Representative of the Executive Board) said that the Board’s view had been that, if draft Resolution 4.48 were approved, the Austrian proposal should not be accepted. [31] Mr. RITSCHL (Austria) said that the intention behind his proposal was not that school textbooks should be replaced by the Outline of World History but that the booklet should be used as a guide to children. It would not be necessary to have original contributions, as a satisfactory guide of the type he had in mind could be compiled from material already published. It would contain information on cultural history distinct, as far as possible, from political history and would not only serve as a guide to children but would be useful to those responsible for the presentation of history in school textbooks. [32] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cul- COMMISSION 328 tural Activities) recalled that, when the project for a Scientific and Cultural History of Mankind was first submitted, the intention had always been, after its publication, to produce a shorter book which would be easy reading for a wider public, as well asa textbook for schoolchildren. He would therefore like to ask the Austrian delegate whether he did not think that the project described in the amendment would be completely realized if the International Commission could compile the proposed brief out- line of world history in the same objective spirit from the complete Scientific and Cultural History. [33] As for the draft convention mentioned in the second part of the amendment, it raised a rather complex legal question, for the preparation of a draft convention could not be considered until after completion of the book. [34] As the proposal of the Austrian delegation was not seconded, it was not put to the vote. The meeting rose at 6.45 p.m. TENTH MEETING Monday, 2 July 1951, at 10.30 a.m. Chairman: Mr. Jean Pager (Switzerland) Statement by the Director-General on Korea. [1] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL made the following statement: [2] Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, on 25 June
1950, the Republic of Korea was invaded by armed forces coming from North Korea. That very day, the Security Council was in session. It declared that this action constituted an act of aggression and demanded cessation of hostilities. [3] This means that it has taken more than a year for this appeal to be answered. [4] It means first and foremost that the Security Council, seeing that its request of 27 June remained unanswered, was obliged to decide upon military measures for the re-establishment of international peace and security. [5] Let there be no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that history will one day acclaim this painful enterprise as an event of immense significance: the first practical   application on the international scale of the principle of collective security. [6] What this vital demonstration has cost in destruc- tion and suffering we know only too well. For a twelve- month, tens of thousands of fighting men have fallen in bloody battles. For a twelvemonth, hundreds of thousands of innocent men, women and children have known the indescribable horrors of modern warfare. Towns have been wiped out, villages razed to the ground, schools destroyed, monuments and places of culture devastated. [7] Unesco could not remain indifferent to this tragedy. On 14 August 1950, the Economic and Social Council invited the Specialized Agencies, under the terms of their agreements with the United Nations, to lend such assistance as the United Nations Unified Command in Korea might request to come to the aid of the civil popu- lation of Korea, and moreover emphasized the need to obtain the understanding and support of the peoples for the action undertaken by the United Nations in Korea. Accordingly, the Executive Board of Unesco, during its Twenty-Third Session, adopted on 29 August a resolution | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |   — . . . c . — — . = = N e O O E A . S E N | . . . T y ‎ان — . — Y —
329 PROGRAMME the text of which I at once communicated to the Govern- ments and National Commissions of Member States, as well as to the international organizations having agree- ments with Unesco. [8] Summing up the significance of this resolution, I declared on that occasion: “In condemning aggression wherever it appears, Unesco is not impelled by any party spirit but adopts an attitude consonant with the notion of peace within the law which its Constitution proclaims. No one here has proposed a policy of propaganda on behalf of any particular party. Far from being an instrument of ideological war, our Organization is first and foremost an organ of education for the peace under the law of which I have just spoken. The activities we can under- take as a result of events in Korea fit into the framework of our normal programme. They consist in sharing, to the full measure of our abilities, in the reconstruction of Korea, just as we are already contributing to that of many war-devastated countries, and in helping to show, by our teaching about the United Nations, the value of col- lective security in the face of any aggression.” [9] The Report I submitted to you at the beginning of this session contained an account of how this resolu- tion of the Executive Board has been carried out. And now the events of these last few days, whose develop- ment we are following with anxious hope, open up new vistas for the work of Unesco. [10] I have received from Mr. George Paik, Minister for Education of the Republic of Korea, a communication dated 28 June, which refers gratefully to the Executive Board's resolution of 29 August 1950, and asks me for assistance in the reconstruction and development of edu- cation in his country. [11] This request will be passed on at once to the Executive Board, and I do not doubt that a special effort both for immediate aid and long-term assistance will be made on behalf of the Republic of Korea within the framework of our programmefor 1951 and 1952, in close collaboration with the appropriate departments of the United Nations and the other Specialized Agencies. [12] In Korea, the United Nations have been fighting for a cause greater than that of Korea itself. They have been fighting for a cause which is their own. They have fought to win respect for the principle of collective security, which is their common interest and their main reason for existence. They have fought to secure through- out the world the triumph of law. So we might say that the world owes a particular debt to Korea, whose territory has served as the battlefield. I am convinced that Unesco, for its part, will be deeply concerned to honour this debt towards one of its Member States. [13] The hour when the guns stop firing will be the hour when the children take the road to school again through the familiar streets and the fields of their fathers. That will be the hour of Unesco. [14] Ladies and Gentlemen, let us see to it that in the new schools the little Koreans may learn that the sufferings of their elders have not been in vain. Let us see to it that in Korea the solidarity of the peoples may be made manifest, in the peace for which we hope, so that in the quiet Land of Spring, education, science and culture, which are the flowers of freedom, may be born anew and flourish. COMMISSION IV-10 Discussion of the Draft Programme for 1952 (continuation) [document 6C/5 (I)]. Cultural Activities (continuation). PROTECTION OF WRITERS AND ARTISTS. Item 4.31. [15] Item 4.31 was adopted without discussion. Item 4.82. [16] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) supported the draft amendment submitted by the Committee of Copyright Specialists (document 6C/DR/60). [17] The amendment was adopted, subject to its submission to the drafting committee. [18] Mr. CHEDIAK (Cuba) wished to know whether invitations to the inter-governmental Conference for the drafting of a Universal Copyright Convention would be issued exclusively by Unesco. [19] Sir Philip HENDY (United Kingdom) sup- ported the amendment but suggested that the contract with the International Literary and Artistic Association mentioned in clause (d) of the work plan was not really necessary and might even confuse matters. Its deletion might effect some saving in the budget. [20] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) said that the working party was responsible for the proposal that invitations to the Special Conference should be sent jointly in the name of Unesco and the government of the country where the conference was to be held. It would be wise to adopt that resolution without a fresh discussion, which would necessitate re-opening the question of procedure. [21] The Association with which it was proposed to make a contract was the International Literary and Artistic Association, whose collaboration had, in the past, proved valuable to Unesco. The Secre- tariat was therefore anxious that the Commission should give its consideration to the proposed contract. [22] The appropriation of $18,036 relating to item 4.32 was adopted. [23] The CHAIRMAN informed the meeting that     IV-10 PROGRAMME two addenda had been submitted by the Cuban delegation (documents 6C/DR/31 and 6C/DR/33). [24] Count JACINI, representing the Executive Board, said that the Board had no comments to make on the proposal contained in document 6C/ DR/31, but suggested that the proposal in docu- ment 6C/DR/33 should be amended to authorize the Director-General to supply Member States, on request, with an alphabetical list of copyright experts. [25] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) said that Unesco could collaborate with the Berne Bureau and the Pan-American Union in assembling the necessary material for an Encyclo- paedia of Copyright, but could not undertake to publish it, as that was work for a commercial firm. Therefore it did not seem possible to retain the Cuban delegation’s proposal in document 6C/DR/31, except as a request that the matter should be examined. [26] As regarded the second proposal (document
6C/DR/33), there was a financial difficulty, for a mission of international copyright experts would entail an expenditure of $1,500 to $2,500. [27] The CHAIRMAN asked the Cuban represen- tative whether he would accept the Secretariat's proposal that the scheme for an Encyclopaedia of Copyright should be brought forward at the next session of the Conference. [28] Mr. CHEDIAK (Cuba) said that he had no objection to accepting the Secretariat's suggestion that the matter should be postponed until the next session. He recalled that the Committee of Experts had alreadv agreed that the question should be sub- mitted to the current session of the General Confer- ence and pointed out that Mr. Thomas was in agree- ment with the motion when he remarked that the co-operation of competent bodies such as the Berne Union and the Pan-American Union should be sought. He also mentioned that a Copyright Ency- clopaedia was in preparation in the United Kingdom. [29] The CHAIRMAN noted that the Commission agreed to accept the Secretariat’s suggestion regard- ing ‘the proposal concerned in document 6C/DR/31. [30] The Chairman asked the Cuban delegate whether he would accept the Executive Board's amendment to his proposal in document 6C/DR/33, namely to authorize the Director-General to supply Member States, on request, with an alphabetical list of copyright experts. [31] Mr. CHEDIAK (Cuba) explained the reasons for the second proposal then under discussion. Following a comparison of the divergences in the legislation and practice in various countries with   GCOMMTSS TON 330 regard to the protection of intellectual property, Unesco was preparing the groundwork for a Uni- versal Copyright Convention which would lead to an effective solution to that problem. He said that the Cuban delegation had borne in mind the remarks made on that subject by various delegations, and particularly the recommendation made by the Italian delegation the previous year, that there should be not only a diplomatic guarantee, through international agreements, but also a practical gua- rantee. In point of fact, the protection afforded by national legislation and international agreements was insufficient, and an effective organ was required to enforce that protection. In the absence of such a body, Unesco should help those countries whose machinery for the protection of intellectual property was inadequate or non-existent, with a view to working out some means of enforcing the payment of royalties, both within the country concerned and in other countries. Unesco could assist in bringing about an improvement by facilitating arrangements between the different countries for the payment of royalties due to their respective nationals. [32] In Mr. Chediak’s opinion, Unesco ought to adopt a proposal similar to those on pages 71 and 30 of document 6C/5(1); the latter (item 1.233 of the Draft Programme for 1952) provided for sending out, with the financial participation of the countries concerned, teams of experts or technical advisers to examine problems and to propose suitable solutions. Г [33] The CHAIRMAN put the Cuban delegation's proposal (document 6C/DR/33) to the vote; it was seconded by the delegation of the Dominican Repub- lic and Brazil. [34] The proposal was rejected by 19 votes to 9, with 3 abstentions. DISSEMINATION OF CULTURE. Item 4.41. [35] Mr. CALÔ (Italy) said that the Italian dele gation felt it had a duty to make a statement on the above resolution. It raised a very delicate problem. The Italian delegation had always been opposed to any enterprise which might seem to impose regi- mentation in matters of the mind and of education; the unity at which Unesco was aiming could only be a unity of diversity and originality, that was to say, a living unity, not a drab monotony, negative and dead. [36] The Italian delegation realized the full value of the resolution from the ideal standpoint. In every sphere where there were differences of opinion, of conviction, of doctrine or of outlook, it was always possible to seek and to find some common element, to extract from different systems or opposed       T L A S A T E N T S P S E
331 PROGRAMME points of view something of universal value, and it could not be denied that much which was of uni- versal value to mankind could and should be sought in the teaching of philosophy. [37] The Italian delegation could give its assurance that the Italian National Commission would care- fully answer the questionnaire addressed by Unesco to Member States on the state of philosophy teaching. But, in speaking of the steps which different States should take to ensure that that teaching led to inter- national understanding, that was to say, furthered Unesco's aims, care should be taken to avoid even the semblance of trying to regiment teaching or confine it within imposed boundaries and methods. [38] Although Mr. Cald was convinced that that danger was more apparent than real, it was essential not to cause alarm, however unjustified, and not to lay Unesco’s plans open to criticism which, although perhaps superficial, would endanger its just and noble cause. [39] Philosophy and the teaching of philosophy could survive only in an atmosphere of freedom. And that, of course, supposed freedom of conscience as well as of thought; values based on feeling, and not merely values or thruths based on reason. In any case, and perhaps also because of that, philoso- phy, like science, meant freedom. It should be stressed, even though it was implied, that in speak- ing of the measures which governments ought to take, it was only hoped that governments themselves would draw the attention of teachers of philosophy to the need for them to bear in mind the possibility that their teaching might lead to understanding between all men and all peoples, and to the creation of a common mind and universal friendship in tune with Unesco’s aims. [40] The Italian delegation trusted that the sub- stance of the above statement would be embodied in the minutes of the meeting, for it believed that its statement covered not only its own responsibilities but interpreted the belief of all delegations, of the Director-General and of the responsible organs of Unesco, in whom it would be superfluous for the Italian delegation to reaffirm its full confidence. [41] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL supported the Italian delegate’s request that his entire speech should be recorded in the minutes of the meeting. The Italian delegate had indeed expressed the thoughts of everyone. Unesco’s aim was in no way to impose criteria upon Member States. The result of the enquiry should be to evoke suggestions for the improvement of philosophy teaching, and that was consonant with absolute respect for the freedom of each Member State. [42] The CHAIRMAN noted that any misunder- standing was thus dispelled. COMMISSION 17-0 [43] Mr. VILLALBA VILLALBA (Venezuela) agreed with the views expressed by the Italian delegate and the Director-General. He recalled that, at the third Congress on Philosophy held at Mexico City in January 1950, a motion proposed by Professor Gaos had been approved, which was in accordance with the terms of item 4.41 of Unesco’s Programme in that it advocated the attainment of the largest possible measure of agreement with regard to methods of teaching philosophy and the harmonization of the various systems used in the American continent, whilst fully safeguarding freedom of thought. [44] Sir Philip HENDY (United Kingdom) drew attention to the amended wording for item 4 41 proposed by his delegation in document 6C/DR/3, under item 4.313. The new wording would be useful, since the primary aim should be to encourage relations between philosophy and the other disci- plines, and to study their effects both on each other and on cultural life in general. [45] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities), agreed in principle to the United Kingdom delegation’s amendment. [46] On the proposal of the DIRECTOR-GENERAL, Sir Philip HENDY (United Kingdom) agreed that his amendment should be referred to the drafting committee. [47] Resolution 4.41 was adopted, subject to its being referred to the drafting committee. Item 4.42. [48] On the proposal of Count JACINI (Executive Board), it was agreed that account should be taken of the United Kingdom amendment (item 4.31, docu- ment 6C/DR/3) in considering the work plan for
1952 and in drawing up the programme for 1953. [49] With that proviso, item 4.42 was adopted. Item 4.421. [60] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) mentioned that the Commission had received an amendment from the United King- dom delegation relating to sub-paragraph (c) of the work plan under Resolution 4.421 (item 4.322 of document 6C/DR/3, page 10), an amendment by the Belgian delegation (document 6C/DR/2), and one by the Cuban delegation (document 6C/DR/11). All were similar in intent and entirely in accordance with the experts’ recommendations. It was only necessary to decide whether new resolutions on that particular point should be added to Resolution 4.421 _ — =      IV-10 PROGRAMME [51] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL asked the United Kingdom delegation not to press for further reso- lutions. [52] Mrs. POTTER RUSSELL (United States of America) was in favour of the proposal, made earlier, that a special drafting committee should be appointed at the end of the discussion on Cultural Activities. The United States delegation considered that course particularly important in the light of the United Kingdom, Belgian and Cuban amendments, which should be given special consideration and should, furthermore, be transferred to item 4.441. [53] Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) observed that his delegation’s proposal differed from that of the United Kingdom in that it particularly stressed the need for organizing exhibitions of contemporary art. Living artists as well as museum experts should collaborate in that work. [54] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) stated that the committee of experts had laid particular stress on contemporary work. [66] Mr. CAIN (France) thought that the Belgian representative would like artists’ associations to be asked to collaborate with the International Council of Museums in organizing the exhibitions referred to. It was not possible to draw up a suitable pro- vision to that effect during the meeting, but the Secretariat might well take the suggestion as a basis. [56] Mrs. POTTER RUSSELL (United States of America) believed that the question had been studied at Mexico City in 1947 by the International Council of Museums, and that it had been unanimously agreed that such travelling exhibitions should contain original works of art, or, at least, contemporary origi- nal works. Clause (d) of the work plan under item 4.421 would permit of contemporary works being exhibited. Mrs. Potter Russell recalled that the resolution on the subject adopted at the Fifth Session of the General Conference had stressed that such exhibitions of original works should be “Unesco-sponsored”, but she understood that the phrase in question had been abolished by the recent committee of experts; the way was thus open for bilateral exchanges of exhibitions between appropriate bodies and museums in Member States. She hoped that it would be possible to reach agreement on the Belgian and Cuban proposals, and that emphasis would be laid on the history of the project. [67] Mr. ASSUNGAO de ARAUJO (Brazil) agreed with the Belgian representative’s remarks on the organization of contemporary art exhibitions, and COM MATTE SON 332 pointed out that Latin America, and Brazil in parti- cular, were suitable centres for such exhibitions. He drew the attention of the Commission to the first Biennial Exhibition of Contemporary Art, to be held at Sao Paulo in October, in which a great many countries would take part. Valuable prizes would be awarded to artists selected by an inter- national jury. That large exhibition would be the culmination of several years’ artistic and cultural endeavour by the Museum of Art and the Museum of Modern Art in Sao Paulo, and by the Museum of Modern Art in Rio de Janeiro. [58] Mr. CHOUKOUR WALI (Afghanistan) ob- served that in some countries there was no national artists’ organization; he asked whether individual artists might get in touch with Unesco for the purpose of making their work known. [59] Mr. MISSINGHAM (Australia) wondered whether it was due to an oversight that there appeared to be no mention in items 4.421 or 4.121 of the publication of the catalogues of colour repro- ductions. The Australian National Commission considered them very important, the more so since work had already been started with the publication of the first volume. Mr. Missingham hoped the matter was at least included in the work plans. [60] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities), in reply to the Afghan represen- tative’s question, said that it would not be advisable for individual artists to apply to Unesco direct. The proposed International Association of Artists would serve as a link between artists in different countries, [61] Replying next to the Australian representative, Mr. Thomas said that the Secretariat intended, in the following year, to publish a revised edition of the first catalogue of colour reproductions of con- temporary paintings. The new issue would be paid for out of the Publications Fund. That was why there was no special budget appropriation for the purpose. [62] Sir Philip HENDY (United Kingdom) had found it rather difficult to follow the various pro- posals which had been made, but thought that the long discussion on item 4.421 was the best indica- tion of the value of the United Kingdom proposal to break up the item (items 4.322 and 4.323 in docu- ment 6C/DR/3). He was, however, prepared to leave the matter to the drafting committee. [63] Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) was willing to leave the final wording of his resolution to the drafting committee, on the understanding that the idea of contemporary art would not be lost sight of, and that the organization of the exhibitions would not be limited to a specific body, but that a number of      PROGRAMME bodies would be invited to help, as recommended by the experts. [64] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) drew the Commission’s attention to item 4.323 of the United Kingdom proposal (document 6C/DR/3, page 10), which aimed at giving the Secretariat a more active role in the pre- paration and publication of colour reproductions. [65] Sir Philip HENDY (United Kingdom) was very anxious to receive some assurance concerning the steps taken to ensure proper distribution of those reproductions. The volume on Masaccio was, from the point of view of the art historian, almost a dream come true, since it made it possible for the first time to see the pictures properly without having to guess or climb ladders. Nevertheless, the United Kingdom had been able to obtain only 200 copies, which was less than the Ministry of Education alone had wished to distribute. There was no point in Unesco’s undertaking or encouraging that type of project unless it could also ensure the distribution of the finished article. Any publication could be distributed in its own country; it was for Unesco to ensure world-wide distribution. [66] Mr. MISSINGHAM (Australia) agreed, since his National Commission had also taken great exception to the method by which the volume had been distributed. Large orders had been placed, but the volumes had not been delivered, and Mr. Missingham felt it to be very important that the working party or drafting committee concerned with the item should look closely into the matter, even if, in the last analysis, it meant that Unesco itself would have to undertake the distribution. [67] Mr. DELAVENAY (Head, Documents and Publications Service) said that it was not Unesco’s fault that difficulties had been encountered in the distribution of the Masaccio album. The Publications Service had made every endeavour, within its limited means, to assist the publishers of the albums, but the only practicable plan was to entrust their distri- bution to international publishing firms. [68] If it were wished that the Publications Service should itself undertake the world-wide distribution of the albums of reproductions, the staff of the Service would have to be considerably increased, for, as it was, its budget did not allow for the minimum number of posts needed for priority work. [69] Mrs. POTTER RUSSELL (United States of America) considered that it was for Unesco to - control the distribution of albums or folios through its contracts with the publishers, or else to with- draw those contracts. The United States of America COMMISSION IV-10 had been able to obtain only a promise of 25 copies of the Masaccio volume, any further volumes being at an exorbitant price. [70] The CHAIRMANrecalled that, at the end of the discussion, the Commission would be asked to decide whether it wished to adopt detailed resolu- tions or to adhere to the principle of combined resolutions cost in general terms. [71] It was agreed that all comments made on item 4.421 would be noted, [72] With that proviso, item 4.421 was adopted, together with the estimated appropriation. [73] The CHAIRMAN recalled that, in docu- ment 6C/DR/2, the Belgian delegation had proposed an additional resolution 4.4211; the anticipated cost for that proposal would be $5,100. [74] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL asked the Belgian delegation to retain only the first paragraph of that resolution, consisting solely of an invitation to Member States, and to agree that consideration of the second paragraph should be postponed until the Secretariat had the necessary funds to put it into effect. [75] Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) asked whether it would not be possible for the Secretariat to give technical assistance ‘in the constitution of inter- national photographic archives. [76] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) said that a document, drawn up by an expert, was being prepared on the way in which such photographic archives might be con- stituted. That document would be communicated to all Member States. But the Secretariat would not be able to undertake a study during the following year on the method of organizing an international system for the exchange of photographic repro- ductions. [77] Mr. CAIN (France) supported the Belgian representative’s proposal, and asked whether it would not be possible to provide in the 1953 budget for the work in question. [78] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained that, at a time when the fixing of a budget ceiling had caused the cancellation of certain items in the draft pro- gramme, it was really not possible to contemplate new activities. For that reason, he was regretfully obliged to ask the Belgian representative to drop the second part of his resolution. [79] Replying to a suggestion by the French     IV-10 PROGRAMME representative, seconded by the Belgian represen- tative, the Director-General added that, if any new activities were to be contemplated in the 1953 budget, it would be necessary for delegations to obtain their Government's consent to an increase in the budget. [80] The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the first para- graph of resolution 4.4211 proposed by the Belgian delegation (document 6C/DR/2). [81] That paragraph. was adopted. [82] The CHAIRMAN consulted the Commission with regard to the French delegation’s proposal, which expressed the hope that provision might be made in the 1953 budget for the survey referred to in the second paragraph of resolution 4.4211. [83] That proposal was adopted, subject to its _ reference to the Drafting Committee. Item 4.43. [84] Item 4.43 was adopted without discussion. Item 4.431. [85] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) said that the United Kingdom delegation had proposed an amendment (item 4.242 in document 6C/DR/3, page 8) which would change the first part of the resolution as follows: “to con- clude arrangements with Member States and with suitable professional organizations for the transla- ton.” [86] The amendment was seconded by the French delegate. [87] Mr. RAADI (Iran) proposed the following amendment: “to conclude arrangements with Member States directly interested or, in agreement with them, with qualified organizations and institu- tions, for the translation . . .” [88] Sir Philip HENDY (United Kingdom) said that his delegation accepted that alteration, which was also accepted by the Afghan and Lebanese dele- gations. [89] Item 4.431, amended in accordance with the Iranian suggestion, was adopted, with the estimated appropriation. [90] Mr. CAIN (France) asked that more impor- tance should be accorded to translation work in the
1953 budget. [91] The CHAIRMAN said that the Cuban dele- COMMISSION 334 gation had submitted an additional resolution (docu- ment 6C/DR/32), worded as follows: The Director-General is authorized: To organize and sponsor International Book Exhibitions or Festivals in the cities in which future meetings of the General Conference or National Commissions are held, in co-operation with such Member States, National Com- missions or other organizations as may so desire. [92] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) mentioned that the Cuban delegation had agreed to delete the word “festivals” from the text. The Executive Board was in favour of the proposal, provided that the words “organize and sponsor” were replaced by the word “encourage”. [93] Mr. CHEDIAK (Cuba) confirmed that the Cuban delegation had accepted the deletion of the word “festivals”. He requested an explanation for the proposed substitution of the word “encourage” for the words “organize and sponsor”, and also wished to know, if that change were made, what body would be responsible for organizing the exhibi- tions in question. [94] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained that the organization of an exhibition by the Secretariat necessarily implied the voting of an appropriation. He therefore appealed to the Cuban delegation to agree to alter the text, so that the Secretariat might be instructed merely to encourage such exhibitions [95] Mr. CHEDIAK (Cuba) said that there had never been any intention that his delegation’s pro- posal should entail budgetary commitments. He accepted the suggested changes. [96] The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the Cuban delegation’s proposal, amended by the deletion of the words “or festivals”, and by the substitution of the word “encourage” for the words “organize and sponsor”. [97] The resolution, as amended, was adopted. Items 4.44, 4.441. 4.46 and 4.451. [98] Adopted without comment, together with the relevant budget estimates. Item 4.462. [99] Sir Philip HENDY (United Kingdom) stated that the project was strongly supported by the Government of the Gold Coast, which had expressed its willingness to receive the seminar in question. [100] Item 4.452, together with the relevant budget estimate, was adopted.
335 PROGRAMME Item 4.46. [101] Adopted without comment. Item 4.461. [102] Mr. EVANS (United States of America) believed that the time was not yet ripe to carry forward the proposal to establish a model national bibliographical centre in a Member State. The cost involved was $7,750, and his delegation suggested that the project should be postponed until it had been proved that the proposal was a good one. [103] Mr. LAMB (Canada) opposed Mr. Evans’ motion. The project was considered important in Canada, which had been responsible for a centre that had been in operation for 15 months and had done much to stimulate the establishment of other libraries. The Canadian National Commission would therefore like the project to go forward without delay. On the other hand, certain other projects underitem4.461 were less important, and Mr. Lamb suggested that the Secretariat might be able to sug- gest some rearrangements in the budget estimates. [104] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department, of Cultural Activities) said that the resolution under discussion was very important; it related to the execution of recommendations made by the Inter- national Bibliographical Conference held the previous year, and by the International Committee on Biblio- graphy which had met a few months earlier in London. Nevertheless, financial necessity had led the Secretariat to suggest a saving of $10,000 by cutting out one of the two contracts contemplated in paragraph (e) under item 4.461. The reduced appropriation of $24,250 would permit the imme- diate implementation of the plan for the establish- ment of a bibliographical centre in one of the Member States, most likely a Latin American country. [105] Item 4.461 was adopted, with a reduced appropriation of $24,250. Item }.47. [106] Item 4.47 was adopted without discussion. Item 4.471. [107] Mr. EVANS (United States of America) said that, in view of the need to cut the budget and of the existence of the Libraries Bulletin, his delegation considered that the $4,000 for transport costs under that item should be cut, since Unesco could not undertake the task on a large scale. COMMISSION 1100 [108] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) pointed out that it was essential for Unesco to have the funds estimated for the cost of transporting books from donor to recipient libraries, as the latter were often unable to pay such expenses. [109] Item 4.471 was adopted. [110] At the Director-General’s suggestion, the decision on the appropriation for that resolution was postponed until the second reading. Item4.472. [111] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) suggested that the resolution should be deleted, together with the appropriation of $3,846. [112] That proposal was adopted. [113] The CHAIRMAN reminded the meeting that item 4.48 had already been adopted. ACTION IN THE SERVICE OF Human RIGHTS. Item 4.61. [114] The CHAIRMAN informed the meeting that the United States delegation had submitted a proposal relating to that resolution (document 6C/DR/23). [115] The DIRECTOR-GENERALobserved that the proposal to entrust a new study to the International Council for Philosophy and Humanistic Studies, without any increase in its subvention, would have the effect of reducing its subvention by the amount of the estimated contract figure for the purpose in question. The Executive Board did not consider that a desirable solution. [116] Mrs. POTTER RUSSELL (United States of America) hoped that it would be possible to include that special work within the normal activities of the International Council for Philosophy and Humanistic Studies. [117] Mr. CAIN (France) said that he would have to reserve his position with regard to the proposal by the United States delegation. [118] Mr. de PALMA (United States of America) wished to clarify the matter by pointing out that, as there was to be a contract with the International Council for Philosophy and Humanistic Studies, the subvention might be reduced, but he suggested that that particular question might be held over until the second reading.       IV-10 PROGRAMME [119] Item 4.51 was adopted, together with the budget estimate, subject to any decision taken at the second reading. Item 4.62. [120] Sir Philip HENDY (United Kingdom) pro- posed the deletion of the item on principle; his delegation was opposed to the question’s being con- sidered by groups of experts in addition to the Human Rights Commission. [121] Mrs. POTTER RUSSELL (United States of America) seconded the United Kingdom proposal.
(122] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) emphasized that the United Nations Commission on Human Rights had asked Unesco to make suggestions, and often even to draft texts, connected with its work. For that purpose it had seemed necessary to consult Member States and National Commissions on both legal and practical matters, in regard to the application of the right to participate in cultural life. It was obviously necessary to accept cuts in the budget, but the meet- ing was dealing with a very important question which would give rise to much work for the Cultural Activities Department. [123] The CHAIRMAN reminded the meeting that the resolution under discussion had been drawn up in response to a request from the United Nations, to which Unesco was under a moral obligation. [124] Mr. CAIN (France) thought it would doubtless be possible to obtain a favourable vote upon the resolution from the Commission as a whole, if the Secretariat would agree to a less extensive consultation, thereby enabling the appropriation of $7,000 to be reduced to $3,500. [125] Mr. proposal. PHOTIADES (Greece) seconded that COMMISSION 336 [126] The CHAIRMAN asked the Commission for its opinion on the United Kingdom proposal, seconded by the United States delegation, to delete item 4.52. [127] By 11 votes to 10, the Commission rejected item 4.52. Item 4.63. [128] Mr. ZBINDEN (Switzerland) thought that the Human Rights Album in its existing form was unsatisfactory, and he felt it would be preferable to postpone until later the compilation of a short handbook for schools. He therefore proposed that that item should be deleted from the programme. [129] The proposal was seconded by the Colombian representative.
3 abstentions,[130] By 17 votés оса with item 4.53 was rejected. [131] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) observed that previous Sessions of the Conference had recommended the Director- General to undertake action in the service of Human Rights in all sections of Unesco’s work. By deleting the last two resolutions, in particular resolution 4.52, the Commission had just dealt a serious blow to such actio.. As the motion had been lost by only 11 votes to 10, Mr. Thomas asked whether the Commission would not reconsider its decision. [132] After an exchange of views between the CHAIRMAN, Mrs. POTTER RUSSELL (United States of America), Mr. FREYMANN (Mexico), Count JACINI, Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) and Mr. CAIN (France), the Commission decided to resume the discussion of item 4.52 at the beginning of its next meeting. The meeting rose at 1.30 p.m.