267 PROGRAMME COMMISSION 117 SECOND MEETING Wednesday, 27 June 1951, at 9.30 a.m. Chairman: Mr. Jean Piacer (Switzerland) Presentation of the Draft Programme for 1952. [1] The CHAIRMAN explained that the Com- mission had to examine the draft programme, taking each resolution in turn and bearing in mind (a) the Secretariat’s special reports; (b) the decisions of the Executive Board, which was represented on the Commission by Mr. Verniers; (с) the Budget Committee's comments; (d) suggestions made by delegations; (e) remarks made by the Secretariat during the discussion. In conclusion, he pointed out that it was not the work-plan that would be put to the vote, but the resolutions, one by one. [2] Mr. VERNIERS (Representative of the Ex- ecutive Board) was anxious to perform his task in the way most useful to Unesco, and to explain the Executive Board’s real intentions to the Commission so that it might be in full possession of the facts when making its decisions. He would confine him- self to very brief comments, since all the members of the Commission had received copies of the Draft Programme [document 6C/5 (1)], which, as already noted, was an improvement on previous programmes as regarded both clarity and coherence. The pro- posed activities were inter-connected; they were also a logical outcome of Unesco’s previous work and would prepare the way for future projects. Reference to the programme had been simplified, so that, for the first time, it was possible for a layman to appreciate the magnitude of Unesco’s task. Mr. Verniers added that, in addition to the draft programme, there was a special programme of fundamental education. [3] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that the Pro- gramme Commission had never had such a difficult task as that then before it. The award of priorities for carrying out the programme had formerly been left to the Executive Board and the Secretariat, whereas the current Conference had to assume that responsibility and decide upon the cuts necessitated by the difference between the budget ceiling of $8,718,000 just voted by the Conference, and the figure of $9,547,000 proposed by the Director- General, taking account of the saving effected by the decision to hold the Seventh Session of the Conference in Paris. The enforced saving of $829,000 might be reduced to $808,000, since the draft programme [document 6C/5(1)] and the Budget Estimates [document 6C/5(II)] did not allow for the rise in prices, which had been taken into account only in the addendum to the Budget. That meant that an average reduction of 11.38 per cent would have to be made in all sections of the programme with the exception of the External Rela- tions Service. Economies had already been made in that Service by the suppression of the $124,000 provided for Liaison Services with Germany and Japan, rendered superfluous by the entry of those countries into the Organization. The Documents and Publications Service was also excluded, as its expenditure was chargeable to the various Depart- ments. [4] Mentioning that the reductions to be made in the programme should be spread in such a way as to conserve its balance, the Director-General gave first the budget estimates for each of the Depart- ments concerned, and next, the total figure for each of the necessary cuts: Budget Cuts to be applied $ $
573,000 65,310 Education . Natural Sciences Social Sciences Cultural Activities Exchange of Persons . Mass Communications 1,172,000 133,480 Rehabilitation . y ; : 289,000 32,985 Saisies EN 87,000 9,900 [5] The Director-General realized that the Com- mission’s task would be hard and painful. It would have to be tackled by degrees. In the first stage, the programme cuts should be limited to nine per cent in each Department, so that, when the programme came up for over-all revision, there could be a final reduction of 2.38 per cent on the basis, not of the balance of the budget, as represented by the pro- gramme, but of priorities established by the Confer- ence, which might slightly alter that balance. [6] The Director-General asked that the nine per cent rate of saving should be adopted and, on that basis, gave the following figures for each Depart- ment: Education, $122,548; Natural Sciences, $86,683; Social Sciences, $51,376; Cultural Acti- vities, $89,170; Exchange of Persons, $51,651;
173 PROGRAMME Mass Communication, $105,564; $26,086; Statistics, $7,835. [7] The Director-General remarked that a problem had arisen with regard to the policy of co-operation with international non-governmental organizations. Although, when his report had been presented in plenary meeting, he had been glad to hear delega- tions express their gratification at the excellent work done by those organizations, he was forced to point out that the decrease in Unesco’s budget would inevitably entail proportionate reduction in the sub- ventions granted to non-governmental organizations. The Director-General considered that it would be fair to begin with a cut of nine per cent in the sub- ventions to those organizations, and to reserve a margin of 2.38 per cent for the final revision. [8] The Director-General explained that the reduc- tions should not be applied to service contracts. As in the case of the Organization’s work plan, it would be better to delete an activity entirely than to attempt to do the same work with less money. The cuts in subventions would not be automatic. Their incidence would be in proportion to the value of the services which the organizations concerned rendered to Unesco and the degree to which they participated in its work. [9] The Director-General stressed the fact that it was impossible to do the same amount of work with less money, and that the budget could not be reduced without the deletion of some activities. If the Commission did not wish to place the Secretariat in a dilemma, it would have to resign itself to curtail- ing the programme—a task made still more difficult owing to the new proposals put forward by Member States and considered by the Executive Board, which had approved some of them. Those proposals re- presented an addition of $32,600 to the Budget Estimates, and would be taken into account during the final revision of the budget. Rehabilitation, Criteria for the Establishment of Priorities in the Programme of the United Nations and of the Specialized Agencies, Adopted by the Economic and Social Council. Item 8.4 of the Agenda (document 6C/PRG/2). [10] 116 CHAIRMAN drew the attention of the Commission to the fact that the document then before it had been issued by the United Nations —not by Unesco. Therefore the Commission could only take cognizance of it and use it as a basis in the discussion on criteria for fixing priorities. [11] Before opening the discussion, the Chairman called upon the representative of the International Confederation of Free Trade Unions. Mrs. ETIENNE (International Confederation of Free Trade Unions) submitted a memorandum [12] COMMISSION (document 6C/8) giving the opinion of ICFTU upon the Programme, policy and activities of Unesco in general. She reminded the meeting that the memo- randum emanated from the majority of the trade unions in Member States. Mrs. Étienne hoped that her status as an observer would not prevent the Confederation from commenting on certain items in the agenda. She emphasized the need for non- governmental organizations (and, above all, trade unions) which came into direct contact with the masses, whose needs and aspirations they under- stood, to be closely associated with Unesco’s work, which was as yet too little known to the general public. Many problems could be solved only by concerted international action, in which the trade unions should have their say. [13] Mr. STODDARD (United States of America) said the United States delegation had submitted a resolution on priorities, which was not yet ready; he asked leave to introduce it when it became avail- able, which would entail postponing for a short time the discussion of the criteria for priorities. [14] His delegation fully understood the conditions which made it seem advisable to the Director- General to suggest a flat reduction of nine per cent on each section of the programme, but he would like to feel that that figure was conceived as an average and would not be too rigidly applied. The final list of priorities should override any decision which might be taken concerning each individual section. [15] The CHAIRMAN informed the meeting that the document referred to by the United States dele- gate was being reproduced. It seemed to him diffi- cult to postpone the discussion, but he was prepared to leave that point to the Commission’s decision. [16] The members of the Commission agreed to fall in with the wish expressed by the United States delegate. [17] Mr. CAIN (France) thanked the Director- General for his explanations. The general indications he had given would be a most useful guide to the Commission in its task of applying the reductions made inevitable by the decision on the budget ceil- ing. Mr. Cain would call upon Mr. Guignolet, the French delegation’s expert, to amplify the data on figures given by the Director-General. [18] Mr. Cain agreed with the view expressed by the United States delegate that the figures given should be considered as provisional. The reduction would not necessarily be at the same flat rate for all Departments. Allocations to some of them were at bare “subsistence level”, whilst others were much better provided for. After an impartial examination, the Commission would have to consider how cuts     ا
209الل could be applied to those favoured Departments. Also, Mr. Cain reminded the meeting, previous sessions of the Conference, particularly that held in Florence, had noted that some useful work per- formed by Unesco could be done by other inter- national organizations, or by the United Nations Department of Public Information. [19] With reference to the proposal for a flat re- duction of nine per cent on the budget of every Department, Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) wished to point out that a comparison of the 1951 and 1952 budget estimates showed increases in some Depart- ments and reductions in others. Those increases were not all equal, but varied between 12 per cent (Department of Natural Sciences) and 55 per cent (Exchange of Persons Service). Mr. Guignolet did not understand why, in view of those figures, it was proposed to apply the same rate of reduction to every Department. He drew the Commission's attention to the Preliminary Report of the Budget Committee (document 6C/BUD/1) setting forth some possible increases or reductions. The Committee had thought that the proposed appropriation of $60,000 for the International Computation Centre should be included in the budget. There could be a reduction of $100,000 in the Rehabilitation Service, due to the admission of Germany and Japan as Member States. Confining himself to those few examples, Mr. Gui- gnolet pressed for a careful examination of each project, asking members not to be hypnotized by the figure of nine per cent, which need not be applied too rigidly. [20] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL drew Mr. Gui- gnolet’s attention to the fact that, as he had just pointed out, the abolition of the Liaison Service with Germany and Japan meant a saving of $124,000, thus exceeding the Budget Committee's recommen- dations. The Director-General said that his proposal for a preliminary flat reduction of nine per cent on all sections of the programme was based on the need to co-ordinate the latter; the Executive Board con- sidered that certain sections of the programme, such as Exchange of Persons, should be developed, in line with Ecosoc’s recommendations for closer collabo- ration with trade unions and youth movements; that would accord with the interests and wishes expressed by the representative of the International Confederation of Free Trade Unions. [21] Referring to the remarks made by the United States and French delegates, the Director-General said that he had no wish to impose a flat rate of reduction on the Commission, which was to examine the programme and allot a percentage for each pro- ject on the basis of its findings. He drew attention, however, to the danger of unbalancing a programme which had been worked out by the Executive Board in the course of long discussions. It was because COMMISSION IV-2 he believed it perilous to embark upon reductions without trying to preserve the balance of the pro- gramme drawn up by the Executive Board, that the Director-General had suggested the retention of a percentage of 2.38 for a final adjustment, to be made at the end of the discussions. [22] Mr. VERNIERS (Representative of the Ex- ecutive Board) emphasized that the following points had been kept in mind during the preparation of the programme: (a) Ecosoc’s request for concen- tration of activities and methods; (b) the statement of methods approved at Florence; (c) the need for balanced planning as between the different Depart- ments, which had not existed previously; (d) the need for co-ordinating the work of the different Departments. The preliminary draft programme had been examined with careful attention by the Executive Board in the course of arduous meetings; the resulting draft programme had been considered good by the Board and had been praised by the delegations in plenary meeting. Mr. Verniers would be sorry to see that draft subjected to recasting. It was the Commission’s duty (and its right) to make changes in the programme for its improvement, but Mr. Verniers pleaded that the balance achieved with such difficulty should not be upset and that a margin of savings should be held in reserve to allow of a restoration of the balance after the programme had been examined step by step. [23] Sir Arcot L. MUDALIAR (India) said that he had just returned from a meeting of another Special- ized Agency, and regretted that, at Unesco too, it was necessary to go through the same painful pro- cess of making cuts in a carefully thought-out pro- gramme. He believed, however, that the Director- General's suggestion of a preliminary cut of nine per cent and later of an overall cut of a further
2.38 per cent was the only practicable one. He assumed there was no suggestion of applying that method too rigidly but, in view of the different attitudes in the various delegations, there should be some clear concept of standards. He found it diffi- cult to follow Mr. Guignolet's point about the in- creases in different Departments varying from 12 to
55 per cent, since those increases presumably depended on what the programmes of the Depart- ments had been in previous years. He suggested that the Commission should proceed without further dis- cussion to examine the programme, and that a possible standard for judging draft resolutions might be to consider the continuation of those which already existed more important than the insertion of new projects. [24] Finally, he hoped that, when all the proposed cuts had been made, the Commission would have an opportunity to consider them as a whole, so as to avoid upsetting the balance of the programme.
1V-2 PROGRAMME [25] Mgr. MAROUN (Lebanon) thought that, for the purpose of applying the cuts, a distinction should be made between two aspects of the programme: essential, constructive activities on the one hand (Education, Natural Sciences, Social Sciences and Cultural Activities), and on the other, activities which might be considered as subsidiary to the constructive part of the programme in which a balance had been achieved. It should be possible to apply larger reductions to that subsidiary part.
1 [26] The CHAIRMAN moved the adoption of document 6C/PRG/2, with the proviso that it might be reconsidered in the light of the United States resolution. [27] Document adopted.
6C/PRG/2 was provisionally Discussion on the Draft Programme for 1952 [document 6C/5 (1)]. Education. IMPROVEMENT OF EDUCATIQN THROUGH EXCHANGE OF INFORMATION. Item 1. 11. [28] Mr. VITO (Italy) recalled the stress laid in plenary meeting by the leader of the Italian delega- tion on the importance of Unesco’s work in relation to the situation of intellectuals, in particular of university people. The improvement of education through exchange of information should not be considered only in the field of the collection of statistics, but also in respect of the situation of the people mentioned. He proposed that a small con- tract of about $2,000 should be considered with the International Association of University Professors and Lecturers, which had consultative status with Unesco and had already undertaken an enquiry into the equivalence of degrees, for the purpose set out in item 1.11. [29] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu- cation) said it was for the Commission to decide whether it wished to increase the total subventions to non-governmental organizations. The Inter- national Association of University Professors and Lecturers had received help from Unesco in the past, but in the meantime the International Association of Universities had been founded with the aid of Unesco, and it had seemed preferable to concentrate the work mainly with that body in the current year. [30] The CHAIRMAN said that the Italian delegate’s request would be simply noted. COMMISSION 270 [31] Mr. ZOOK (United States of America) recalled the history of the founding of the International Association of Universities, which had held its first conference in Nice in December 1950, and already had a membership of 89 universities from various countries by February or March of the current year. There was, therefore, every indication that the organization would be highly successful and would become self-supporting within a very reasonable time. The United States delegation felt that Unesco might be very proud to have helped to set up so successful an organization, and it seemed right to give it whatever subvention might be needed to enable it to carry on the following year. His dele- gation was, of course very anxious to accept the Director-General’s suggestion with- regard to a nine per cent cut in the programme, and would like to propose that the $18,000 for the International Association of Universities should be cut by $3,000, the difference being made up by a contract between Unesco and the Association on any matter of mutual concern, [32] Mgr. MAROUN (Lebanon) thought that a reduction in the subvention granted to the Inter- national Association of Universities would inevitably lead to a reduction in the latter’s activities; it was too recently established to be self-supporting. If the average reduction of nine per cent were adhered to, the subvention would have to be cut by $1,600. [33] Mr. RAADI (Iran) thought Unesco’s contribu- tion towards the founding of the Association had been one of its most important steps. He stressed the vital need for Unesco’s assistance to an organi- zation that was still at the initial stage of its develop- ment. The Iranian delegation urged the mainte- nance of the subvention at least at the same figure. They would, indeed, like to see that figure increased, even if it had to be reduced in the following year. [34] Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium), speaking as a delegate, said that there were avenues that Unesco still had to explore, to win friendship and support among, for instance, university people, young people in general, and artists. Althoughit would be some- what illogical not to reduce the subvention to the International Association of Universities, it would be senseless to make a heavy reduction, in view of the future promise of that young organization. He therefore proposed a subvention of $14,000 to the Association, plus the $2,000 service contract sug- gested by the Italian and United States delegates. [35] The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the proposal for a subvention of $14,000 to the International Association of Universities.
271 PROGRAMME [36] It was unanimously approved, with one abstention (Canada). [37] Mr. CALO (Italy) submitted the amendment proposed by the Italian delegation (document 6C/ DR/50), designed to encourage, in agreement with the International Association of Universities, the study of such measures as might bring about, within the briefest possible time, mutual recognition between the different countries of their respective university degrees and professional diplomas. Mr. Cald stressed the importance of such international recognition of diplomas as being likely to lead to a true interpenetration of the various national cultures and to understanding between the countries in fact and not merely in name. [38] Mr. CAIN (France) supported the Italian proposal. [39] The CHAIRMAN explained that that proposal, involving an expenditure of $2,000, would, if accepted, appear in the work plan under item 1.12, without any change in the resolution. It was on the budget figure only that a vote was required. [40] The appropriation of $2,000 for a service contract with the International Association of Universities was put to the vote and approved. [41] Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) stated that his delegation very strongly approved of that and many other projects being undertaken by the Education Clearing House. If, therefore, in order to save time, he was silent concerning many of them, it was to be taken as signifying his delegation’s cordial support. [42] Mr. CALO (Italy) proposed that a service contract with the International Association of Uni- versity Professors and Lecturers, for an enquiry into their professional, social and economic conditions, should be approved. That would entail a cost of $2,000. [43] Mr. STODDARD (United States of America) thought the Commission had attacked item 1.12 prematurely. He wanted to know first whether the $2,000 just voted would be available for a contract with the International Association of Universities. [44] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion) explained that a subvention of $14,000 to the International Association of Universities had been approved, together with a contract for $2,000. The IAU subvention was for an enquiry into the question of equivalence of degrees, while that proposed for the International Association of University Professors COMMISSION 1V-2 and Lecturers was for an enquiry into the intellectual conditions and status of professors. [45] Mr. STODDARD (United States of America) thought the Italian proposal was not implicit in the item under discussion, but that the $2,000 had been voted for an enquiry into the ways in which uni- versities could contribute to international under- standing. The question of equivalence of degrees was not one which required money, or which could be settled by governments or organizations, but rather had to be settled by universities among them- selves. He therefore suggested that the subvention should be given to the International Association of Universities to enable it to reinforce its work on international understanding, and that the work plan of the section should be worded accordingly, without any reference to the equivalence of degrees. [46] The CHAIRMAN reminded the meeting that no further discussion could take place on a resolu- tion adopted by a regular vote. [47] Mr. MARROU (France) was surprised by the United States delegate’s remarks; the Commission's vote was clear; it concerned the suggested enquiry regarding mutual recognition of university degrees and diplomas. The new enquiry proposed by the Italian delegate into the conditions of university professors had not been submitted in accordance with regular procedure and could not then be discussed. Mr. Marrou proposed, in conclusion, that the Commission should consider the vote as taken. [48] The CHAIRMAN pointed out that, whilst the result of the meeting's vote was clear, the United States delegate was proposing another contract with the International Association of Universities. That proposal would have to be taken up when education for international understanding was being discussed. [49] Mr. STODDARD (United States of America) thought it better to place the whole question in the hands of the Director of the Department of Educa- tion. He had no objection if the work plan did not restrict the contract wholly to the question of equi- valence of degrees. The Association of Universities would be required to do a number of things and had indeed already started on several projects which could be incorporated in the contract. [50] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion) was perfectly content, provided the Commission was agreeable, to have the general directive of the contract left to the Secretariat. Agreed. [61] The CHAIRMAN confirmed that item 1.11 was adopted. yy     IV-2 PROGRAMME Item 1.12. [62] Reverting to item 1.12, Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education) suggested a possible cut which might be made in the section, namely, on the Directory of Educational Journals, whereby a saving of $4,500 could be made on fees and printing. The matter would come up again under item 1.121, which dealt with printing costs. [63] At the suggestion of the DIRECTOR- GENERAL, it was agreed to discuss the budgetary implications of 1.12 and 1.121 together. Item 1.121. [64] Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) fully agreed that one of the main functions of the Clearing House was to publish and make available information collected by it. Nevertheless, he had certain sug- gestions to make regarding some of the projects listed under that head. [65] With regard to item (a), the United Kingdom delegation doubted whether the Handbook was really necessary in 1952. The first edition had been under- taken in 1950 and published only in 1951. There were bound to be gaps and mistakes in it, but he wondered whether it was necessary to undertake a second edition so soon, and whether it would not be wiser to publish a supplementary volume in 1952, making good the errors and omissions of the first edition. [66] Under item (b), the proposition was admir- able, but it might be more usefülly carried out by National Commissions than by contract with an unspecified international teachers’ organization. Such a process would save contract fees. [57] In the case of item (c), the United Kingdom delegation had no saving to suggest, but asked the Section to bear in mind the possibility of producing two separate volumes at a later stage, one on adult, and one on fundamental education. [68] Mr. Ward had no special comment to make on items (d) to (h), but thought they should be considered in the light of the recommendations of the special committee on publications set up by the Executive Board. [59] Mr. CAIN (France) agreed generally with the observations of the United Kingdom delegate, and wished to add some further remarks. A second edi- tion of the World Handbook of Educational Organi- zation and Statistics seemed to him premature; a supplement would amply suffice for the current year, and the idea of a second edition could be mooted again the following year. Mr. Cain did not altogether agree with the United Kingdom delegate with regard to the Directory of Educational Journals, because he COMMISSION 272 thought that many of the National Commissions were not yet ready to undertake the proposed work on an international scale. Mr. Cain suggested divid- ing up the two periodicals on fundamental education; that would entail no increase in cost. He felt that the reports and conclusions of the Conference on the use of vernacular languages in education touched upon a very delicate and controversial question. He advocated a mimeographed document, which could be distributed immediately, though in smaller num- bers than a printed document. [60] Mr. STODDARD (United States of America) also supported the United Kingdom proposal, and asked Mr. Elvin what economies would be effected if it were adopted. [61] Mr. CASTRO LEAL (Mexico) pointed out that there was a connexion between the work being done by Unesco and the development of activities in fundamental education pursued by other bodies. Therefore, and in view of the fact that Unesco had opened a Fundamental Education Centre and was considering projects in that field, it appeared un- advisable to cancel publications bearing on the problem. [62] Mr. CALO (Italy) recalled the fact that the Working Party on youth movements had advised against the continuance of the bulletin News for Youth. Their opinion should be borne in mind. [63] As regarded methods of teaching reading and writing in the mother tongue, Mr. Cald thought Unesco should be on its guard against possible over- lapping with the work of the International Bureau of Education. He asked for further information on that point. [64] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion) replied to the various questions put to him. [65] Item (a). If that project were cut altogether, as proposed by the United Kingdom delegation, there would be a saving of $12,000. He thought it better to postpone the project by one year than to indulge in half-measures. [66] Item (b). The United Kingdom proposal would mean a saving of $4,500 for fees and print- ing. However, the work could not be carried out entirely by National Commissions. He therefore suggested that the project should be dropped as a budget item and formal activity, and preliminary steps included as far as possible in the normal work of the Section. [67] Item (c). The French and United Kingdom proposal to make two separate publications had been carefully considered by the Director-General, and discussed with leading personalities outside, and the weight of opinion was in favour of keeping the
273 PROGRAMME two parts together for the time being. There were no budgetary implications. [68] Item (h). The conference proposed was a highly expert one which it was hoped would help Unesco to meet a United Nations request and imple- ment a resolution taken at the Florence Session. The result should be sufficiently important to warrant printing rather than multigraphing. Printing costs were estimated at $11,500. [69] Mr. STODDARD (United States of America) wished to propose, as a substitute for the United Kingdom suggestion, that the only change with budgetary implications be the elimination of projects (a) and (b), giving a total estimated saving of some $16,500, and that the Department should do whatever else it could informally without an ad- ditional budget. [70] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu- cation) was anxious to help the Commission in its task of cutting the programmes, and suggested that IV-3 \ COMMA SSS TORN one of the three monographs in fundamental edu- cation might be added to the United States list of cuts, giving an additional $2,500 saving. [71] Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) was happy to support the United States proposal, together with the additional cut suggested by Mr. Elvin. [72] In reply to a proposal from Mr. MAQUET (Belgium) concerning News for Youth, Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education) explained that the publication in question came under item 1.344. [73] At the DIRECTOR-GENERAL's request, Mr. ELVIN added that the cuts agreed on amounted to a total of $19,000, of which $2,000 fell under item 1.12 and $17,000 under item 1.121. [74] Items 1.12 and 1.121 were approved, subject to the proposed cuts. accordingly The meeting rose at 1 p.m. THIRD MEETING Wednesday, 27 June 1951, at 3.30 p.m. Chairman: Mr. Jean PIAGET (Switzerland) Discussion of the Draft Programme for 1952 (continuation) [document 6C/5 (1)]. Education (continuation). EXTENSION OF EDUCATION. Item 1.211. [1] The CHAIRMAN opened the discussion on item 1.211 (Literacy campaigns). There were no special costs for the item. A draft resolution con- nected with the item had been submitted by the Venezuelan delegation, but it would be more appropriate to consider it under Mass Communi- cation, when the Commission studied the question of radio broadcasts for fundamental education. [2] Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium) gave an account of efforts made in the Belgian Congo to encourage the indigenous population to play an increasingly active part in social development. International co-oper- ation was doubtless essential and had always produced good results, but Belgium, for her part, intended to continue to stimulate the activity of her national committees and national associations of experts. [3] Mr. CALÖ (Italy) stated that, for the past four years, the Italian Ministry of Education had been setting up a large number of fundamental education schools, divided into three categories, for the pur- pose of combating illiteracy; in 1950, some
500,000 persons had attended those schools. Mr. Cald drew attention to the importance of evolving clear and reasonable terminology, so that there would be no risk of ambiguity, and of organizing the different parts of fundamental education pro- grammes in a rational manner. [4] Item 1.211 was adopted.