OF EF/LCT AL AND more concrete phrase for the vague words: “through education and other appropriate means”. Unesco, in accordance with its Constitution, its programme and its very nature, had sufficient means to carry out its mission of maintaining peace, a mission consistent with the Charter of the United Nations, in which there was mention of mediation, concilia- tion and good offices, terms which described functions Unesco was well qualified to exercise. [79] Mr. de Alba added that Unesco should take the role of mediator and friendly arbitrator without being led into ambiguous political situations which might detract from the value of that mission. [80] Each organization, furthermore, had its own function and its own field of action. If it were a question of forming public opinion, then recourse could be had to the United Nations Public Informa- tion Department. Unesco’s mission, however, had its forerunner in the pre-war campaigns conducted EXTERNAL RELATIONS VI-8 by the Institute: of Intellectual Co-operation in the cause of moral disarmament and social education for peace. [81] In approving the resolution, the members of the Commission should bear in mind that they were taking a very important step. That step would pro- mote tolerance and friendly understanding among men as well as establish a groundwork of justice on which to build human relations. [82] In conclusion, the Mexican representative hoped that no member of the Commission would oppose the adoption of the proposal. The Mexican delegation stood solidly behind the Belgian dele- gation’s suggested amendment. [83] Further discussion was postponed until the next meeting. The meeting rose at 1 p.m. EIGHTH MEETING Friday, 6 July 1951, at 10.30 a.m. Chairman: Mr. F. G. Mamerr (Italy) Resolutions on Co-ordination Adopted by the United Nations. Item 10.5.2 of the Agenda (document 6C/OXR/5, and Add. 1).
1. Maintenance of International Security (continuation). Peace and [1] The CHAIRMANsaid that the Commission was to resume the discussion of the draft resolution (document 6C/DR/80) presented by the United States of America, France, Haiti, the Philippines, the United Kingdom and Turkey. [2] Mr. MASON (New Zealand) agreed with the United Kingdom and French delegations that there was nothing in the resolution which would involve Unesco in anyform of propaganda. The Organization was bound by its Agreement with the United Nations to co-operate with the Security Council. The resolu- tion had its origin in the fact that situations might arise where the Security Council was unable to act. The first of the Specialized Agencies to tackle the problem had been the World Health Organization, Which had passed a resolution substantially the same as the text before the Commission. It was true that there had been some abstentions in WHO, but that was because there had not been sufficient time to study the resolution. He was prepared to give his wholehearted support to the principle of the docu- ment (6C/DR/80), although one or two drafting alterations were necessary. [8] Mr. de CLEMENTI (Italy) stated that his dele- gation was entirely in favour of the proposed resolu- tion. In answer to certain speakers who had ex- pressed the fear that such a resolution might be interpreted as propaganda, he pointed out that “pro- paganda” meant the propagation of something, and that Unesco was quite entitled to propagate whatever concerned the maintenance of peace and more parti- cularly the respect for international law. [4] Peace was not only a natural human aspiration, but also a moral law, and the Italian delegation con- sidered that it could never be too stoutly defended. [6] Mr. CHEDIAK (Cuba) was opposed to any restrictive interpretation of the resolution, which he fully supported. [6] Mr. Chediak took his stand on various con- stitutional and legal arguments, citing Article X and    VI-8 ОТРОК Article IV, paragraph 5 of the Constitution, as well as the existing agreement concerning relations be- tween Unesco and the United Nations. He pointed out that the draft resolution in question was the re- sult of a resolution of a competent organ of the United Nations, which asked Unesco, firstly, to give information and assistance and, secondly, to adopt appropriate measures as rapidly as possible. Con- sequently, immediate action was required and not a mere declaration. [7] In his opinion, paragraph 1 of the operative clauses of the resolution, which was not sufficiently concrete, should explicitly state that Unesco would fully support the decisions of the competent organs of the United Nations and would co-operate in their implementation. Mr. Chediak would also prefer the following words to be added at the end of the para- graph: “in accordance with the existing agreement concerning relations between Unesco and the United Nations”. [8] Mr. Chediak said that the words “will co- operate” seemed to imply a theoretical declaration with regard to the future, whereas, if his suggestion were adopted, the decisions taken by the respective governments in the international field would be given practical application. [9] With regard to paragraph 2, Mr. Chediak thought that Unesco should adopt a more radical policy. Unesco’s task was to influence the masses and, at the same time, it should counteract the efforts of the enemies of peace who were endeavouring everywhere to destroy the foundations of culture and undermine the principles of democratic institutions, as evidenced by recent international events. He therefore recommended that the paragraph in ques- tion should be free of all restrictions, so as to permit international public opinion to be won over to the principles approved by the various organs of the United Nations. He suggested that, instead of refer- ring merely to educational and other appropriate means, it would be preferable to say “all the means at its disposal”. [10] Lastly, Mr. Chediak proposed that the follow- ing words should be added at the end of paragraph 3: “as well as Member States of the Organization and National Commissions”. [11] Mr. HARADA (Japan), although his country was not a Member of the United Nations, supported the proposal put forward in the document under dis- cussion. The Japanese people and their Government were strongly convinced of the importance of the system of collective security of the United Nations. In his delegation’s opinion, Unesco should co- operate with the United Nations within the limits of its competence, as long as that did not involve it in any political problem. [12] Mr. CELEBONOVIC (Yugoslavia) declared that his country, which in the past had always been EX TERNAU RELATIONS 432 concerned for the defence of peace and collective security, was completely in favour of the draft re- solution presented to the Commission. [13] But Mr. Celebonovió wished first to make two observations concerning the wording of the resolu- tion. In paragraph 2, he recommended that the words “to facilitate . . widespread public under- standing of” should be replaced by the words “to help . National Commissions and educational, scientific and cultural organizations to understand”. Moreover, he considered that the word “background” should be replaced by the words “origin and scope”. [14] With regard to the substance of the resolution, Mr. Celebonovié asked whether it would not be advis- able to provide for action by Unesco in the event of a breach of the peace or of a threat to peace, even if the organs of the United Nations did not request such action. For that purpose, the Commission might insert between paragraphs 2 and 3 of the draft re- solution a new paragraph, worded as follows: Invites the Executive Board and the Director-General, even in the absence of a formal request by the Security Council or the General Assembly of the United Nations, to take appropriate steps for the maintenance or restora- tion of peace, and more particularly to make appeals to the National Commissions and the educational, scientific or cultural organizations capable of carrying out activities with a view to strengthening the respect for national independence. [15] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out thatit would be dangerous to permit a Specialized Agency to define the origin of a conflict, for that task fell within the competence of the United Nations Security Council. [16] With regard to the new paragraph proposed by the Yugoslav representative, the Director-General thought it unadvisable to envisage action by Unesco for the maintenance of peace, except at the request of the United Nations, for it might give rise to two different policies in favour of peace. He would be glad to have the opinion of the United Nations representative on the question. [17] Mr. GROS (United Nations), although he quite appreciated the anxiety of the Yugoslav delegate, fully agreed with the Director-General. The whole system of the United Nations was involved and co-operation in the field in question was indispensable. [18] Mr. CELEBONOVIC (Yugoslavia) concurred. [19] Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) supported the draft resolution in the form presented in document 6C/ DR/80. His delegation appreciated particularly the careful wording and precision of the resolution, which he thought would ensure that Unesco would not engage in propaganda as such, but would operate within the general framework ofits terms of reference    OFFICIAL AND for the maintenance of peace, in close consultation with the Secretary-General of the United Nations. [20] Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) thought it desirable that the French representative should inform the Commission of the revised text of the draft resolu- tion, which had been drawn up in agreement with a number of delegations and answered most of the comments made on the form ofthe resolution. [21] Mr. LUCET (France) read out the revised text of the draft resolution in document 6C/DR/80. [22] Mr. STEPHENS (Canada) said that, if he be- lieved the resolution would involve Unesco in poli- tical propaganda, he would not support it but, in the carefully worded document before the Committee, that possibility was ruled out. He was therefore in favour of the draft resolution which, he thought, would foster fruitful co-operation with the United Nations. He asked for time to study the proposal put forward by the French delegate. [23] Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium) withdrew the observations which he had made at the previous meeting, about the wording of paragraph 2 of the resolution, and approved the revised text proposed by the French representative. [24] Mr. de ALBA (Mexico) considered that the original draft, which had been revised by the Chair- man of the Working Party, was of great interest and he felt that Unesco should make special efforts to prevent acts of aggression or a breach of the peace. Once a conflict had arisen, Unesco should act in complete unison with the Security Council and the United Nations Assembly. [25] Mr. de Alba personally thought that the resolution should not imply the idea of more or less unilateral propaganda, nor engage Unesco in ideological polemics, nor place it behind any kind of political or doctrinal barricade. [26] Mr. de Alba recommended that the French text should be followed as closely as possible. The Spanish translation was not satisfactory. As the spirit and form of the resolution were more clearly expressed in the French text, he would vote on the basis of the latter. He considered that the words “other appropriate means at its disposal” were extremely vague. To avoid all misconstruction, it should be stated explicitly that Unesco would act In accordance with its aims and Constitution”. [27] It was desirable to avoid too many amend- ments; agreement should be unanimous on such an important question. [28] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) suggested that, the full Commission not being a suitable place for settling drafting questions, an agreed text in the three languages could be drawn up by the Secretariat, КОХ ТОВ НОТА, RELATIONS VI-8 with the assistance of the French, Mexican and United States delegates. He himself would support the proposal put forward by the French delegate, which he considered to be an improvement on the first text. He thought there was entire agreement on the principle of the draft resolution and proposed that it should be put to the vote and carried by acclama- tion. [29] Mr. CHEDIAK (Cuba) said that the Cuban delegation did not wish to make any concrete pro- posal, but only suggestions with a view to giving greater emphasis to the resolution, and it supported the United Kingdom delegation’s proposal that a Committee should be instructed to draft the final text, taking into account the observations made by various delegates. [30] The CHAIRMAN proposed that the Commission should adopt the revised text of the draft resolution in document 6C/DR/80 presented by the French representative, it being understood that a small work- ing party would help the Secretariat draw up the English and Spanish versions. [31] The revised draft resolution was adopted by acclamation.
2. Prior Consultation on Proposals of Inter- Agency Concern. [32] Mr. BERKELEY (Deputy Head, External Rela- tions Service) explained that the proposals contained in that section of the document before the Com- mission were proposals with regard to rules of pro- cedure put forward by the Administrative Committee on Co-ordination, designed to ensure full prior con- sultation on projects. The Director-General had sug- gested referring that section to the Procedure Com- mittee. If the delegates present agreed to that suggestion, the Procedure Committee would send forward its findings direct to the plenary Conference. [33] Mr. EUSTATHIADES (Greece) supported the proposal. [34] The Director-General's proposal was adopted.
3. Concentration of Effort and Resources. [35] Mr. BERKELEY (Deputy Head, External Rela- tions Service) explained that the paragraph in ques- tion contained a group of decisions falling within the scope of the Programme Commission (docu- ment 6C/PRG/2) and it had been proposed to defer consideration of the paragraph until the Programme Commission had considered the question. A resolu- tion had already been adopted by that Commission and would be submitted to the General Conference in plenary meeting, and that resolution, together with the observations contained in document 6C/OXR/6    VI-8 OFRECEN AND Add. 1 paragraph 3, would enable Unesco to consider any recommendations with regard to its future pro- gramme which might be addressed to it by the Econ- omic and Social Council. [36] There being no comments on that paragraph, it was noted and approved. Second Report of the Joint Working Party of the Programme and the Official and External Relations Commissions (document 6C/OXR/17). [37] Mr. LUCET (France), Chairman of the Joint Working Party of the Programme and the Official and External Relations Commissions, read out the second report of the Working Party. I. Draft Resolution (document 6C/OXR/17, Annex I, Item 10.4.3). [38] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL regretted that, ow- ing to the difficulties encountered by the Budget Com- mittee, he was obliged to formulate reservations con- cerning paragraph IV in the operative part of the draft resolution, which would involve an expenditure of $6,000. [39] Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) held that it would be a vain gesture to adopt the proposed resolution without also adopting the corresponding appropria- tion. If it was impossible to provide the means necessary for the execution of such a decision, it would be better to postpone it till a future session. [40] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL thought that the Budget Committee could be left to find the necessary resources. Even if it did not find them, the Secre- tariat would do everything possible to carry out the tasks envisaged by the resolution, subject to the authorization of the Executive Board. [41] Mr. CHANDIRAMANI (India) recalled that a good deal of discussion had been devoted to that point in the Working Party. Since the principle of pressing forward the work on Unesco’s regional needs had been accepted on more than one occasion, no time should be lost in approving any plans adopted by the General Conference at its Seventh Session. There- fore, a small sum of $6,000 had been included in the
1952 budget so as to proceed with the implementa- tion of the programme. The Director-General had said that the resolution with regard to the Cuban Office would involve deliberations on the part of the Budget Committee, which would have to find the necessary funds. The Indian delegate asked the Director-General if he was right in his understand- ing that the amount had been budgeted for. [42] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL having signified EXTERNAL RELATIONS 434 that that was the case, Mr. CHANDIRAMANI (India) went on to say that $6,000 was a relatively small amount, and the problem was urgent. The Indian delegation hoped that the resolution would be adopted as a whole, even if it meant some adjustment in the other activities which had been discussed. He strongly supported the programme for the develop- ment of field offices. [43] Mr. SELFE (Union of South Africa) supported the first three paragraphs of the draft resolution sub- mitted by the Working Party (document 6C/OXR/
17, Annex I). The question of finding for the pur- pose $6,000, which had been described as a relatively small sum, had been discussed in the Programme Commission, and it would involve a difficult search. He proposed that Annex I should be discussed para: graph by paragraph. Mr. CHAVES (Ecuador) requested that the resolution should be discussed as a whole. The one difficulty, contained in paragraph IV, could be avoided by the following amendment: ‘Decides that a sum of $6,000 should be provided in the 1952 Bugdet, if possible”. That would enable the Com- mission to vote on the resolution as a whole without entering into details that continually gave rise to difficulties. [44] [45] On the proposal of the CHAIRMAN, the Com- mission decided to take a decision on paragraphs I, II and III of the draft resolution, and to examine paragraph IV separately. [46] Paragraphs I, II and III of the resolution were adopted, [47] Mr. de ALBA (Mexico) said that the document under discussion indicated a new trend in Unesco's future activities and showed the Commission's desire for the establishment of a permanent system of re- gional centres which would be extended and con- solidated as and when the economic situation per- mitted. The general policy adopted made it essential that the Conference should not discuss budget prob- lems as in the past, when each increase or reduction of the budget implied a discussion which was either wearisome or disagreeable. [48] With regard to paragraph IV, Mr. de Alba agreed that the Ecuadorean delegate’s suggestion would meet the difficulty. [49] Mr. de Alba recalled that the Commission which was in charge of relations with non-official bodies, could ask the latter for permission to utilize their resources. In the regions most interested in the regional centres, the National Commission and the local authorities would have to co-operate if the project was to be carried into effect. [50] Lastly, Mr. de Alba asked the Commission to    | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
435 OTTERS AND approve the policy of encouraging the establishment of new regional centres wherever possible. [51] Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) supported what had been said by the Director-General and the delegate of Ecuador. The Programme Commission had had a very difficult and delicate task to perform in decid- ing the cuts that had been necessary in many highly deserving projects. To ask the Commission at that stage to go back on its work and find another $6,000 would be impossible. To meet the wishes of certain delegations, he suggested that the words “from any possible savings" should be inserted after “provided” in paragraph IV, line 1 of Annex I. [62] Mr. CHANDIRAMANI (India) had no wish to create difficulties for the Budget Committee. In view of the assurance given by the Director-General, he would not press for the adoption of the draft resolu- tion in its original form and would accept the amend- ment proposed by the Australian delegate. [63] Mr. CHAVES (Ecuador) withdrew his amend- ment and supported the amendment of the Australian delegation. [64] The CHAIRMAN put to the vote paragraph IV of the resolution, as amended by the Australian dele- gation. [55] Paragraph IV, thus amended, was adopted by
27 votes, with 1 abstention. II. Draft Resolution (document 6C/OXR/17, AnnexII, Item 10.4.2). [66] Mr. MORISSEAU LEROY (Haiti) thanked the Working Party and the Commission for their efforts on behalf of the Regional Office in the Western Hemisphere. But, in order to ensure the complete Success of that experiment, he recommended the Commission to make a further effort. He suggested that the following paragraph should be added to the draft resolution: Decides also to recommend that the budget estimates for the years following 1952 shall provide for a gradual increase of the resources allocated to the Havana Office. [57] Mr. de PALMA (United States of America) did not consider the Haitian delegate’s proposal appro- priate in a resolution of the kind under discussion, since it expressed an intention which carried with it implications for the future. Tt seemed to him un- desirable to providein the resolution for an increase in the budget of future years. He hoped that the proposal would not be pressed. [58] Mr. CHEDIAK (Cuba) was in favour of the paragraph which the Haitian delegate wished to add EXTERNAL КН ONS VI-8 to the Working Party’s resolution. It would not have any budgetary implications for 1952 and was in harmony with the report on decentralization. [59] It should not be forgotten that the Joint Work- ing Party had decided to separate the two questions —the question of decentralization in general and the question of the Regional Office at Havana—in order to simplify the discussion, and it was in that sense that a decision had been taken. He considered that the additional paragraph proposed by the Haitian delegation had already been practically approved by the Commission, which had unanimously voted in favour of paragraph III of Annex I. [60] The Cuban delegate held that the treatment given to future centres should also be given to the existing centre, and, in conclusion, declared that his delegation warmly supported the policy of decentral- ization. [61] Mr. de ALBA (Mexico) was glad that the correct term was being employed, namely, “Western Hemisphere”, and not “Regional Centre for Latin America”, which had been used by certain com- mentators. Consequently, practical effect was being given to one of the resolutions adopted with regard to the division according to geographical regions, and both Canada and the Caribbean region were included. In that way it would be possible to study many general questions concerning pre-Colombian native populations. Unesco was thus making great headway towards the complete internationalization of the Western Hemisphere. [62] The Mexican delegate praised Havana as one of the regions of the Western Hemisphere in which the international spirit was farthest developed, and said that his delegation approved the resolution in question in the form in which it had been presented by the Drafting Committee. [63] Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) supported the Mexican and United States delegates’ views. The Cuban regional office was still in the experimental stage. When it had been operating for a further
12 months, current concepts might be altered. Moreover, in paragraph III of Annex I, the Director- General was specifically instructed to make provision in the Budget for 1953 and 1954, both for the crea- tion of new offices and for the development of exist- ing ones. It was not appropriate at that juncture to provide for special treatment for the Cuban Office. [64] Mr. MANACH (Cuba) thanked the Mexican delegate for his observations about the Regional Office at Havana and seconded the remarks of his fellow delegate, Mr. Chediak, in support of the additional paragraph proposed by the Haitian delegation. [65] Mr. Mañach said that the term “development” contained in the recommendation to the Director- General could refer only to the Havana Office. n s e a c e a u m m m E J |   VI-9 OFFICIAL AND [66] Mr. MORISSEAU LEROY (Haiti), in answer to remarks by the representatives of the United States of America, Australia and Mexico, said that, in the resolution the Commission had just adopted, the Director-General was asked “to make provision in the budget for 1953 and 1954 for such funds as may be required for the creation or development” of the regional offices. But the only existing office was that at Havana, and it therefore seemed logical to mention future budgets in the resolution relating more particularly to that office. [67] The CHAIRMAN asked the Commission to take a decision on the additional paragraph proposed by the Haitian delegation. [68] The additional paragraph was rejected by
16 votes to 9, with 3: abstentions. [69] The whole of the resolution (document 6C/ OXR/17, Annex II) was adopted by 25 votes without opposition, and with 3 abstentions. Consideration of the Recommendations of the First Regional Conference of National Commis- sions of the Western Hemisphere. Item 10.4.4 of the Agenda (document 6C/OXR/15). [70] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations EXTERNAL RELATIONS Service), representing the Director-General, thought that the Commission, after taking formal decisions on the two preceding items of the Agenda, would wish to take note of the Director-General's report on the recommendations of the Havana Conference. [71] The Commission took note of the Director- General's report (document 6C/OXR/15). [72] Mr. CHEDIAK (Cuba) requested that, at the beginning of the afternoon meeting, the last two items of the Agenda concerning the Regional Office at Havana should be re-examined, as they had not been fully discussed. [73] Mr. ILLUECA (Panama) seconded the remarks of the Cuban delegate and said that he wished to present a formal proposal on the subject at the next meeting. [74] The CHAIRMAN, observing that the last two items of the Agenda concerning the Regional Office and the Regional Conference at Havana had been fully discussed at the current meeting, declared the dis- cussion closed, subject to the right of the Cuban and Havana delegates to ask the Commission to re-open the discussion. The meeting rose at 1.5 p.m. NINTH MEETING Friday, 6 July 1951, at 74.30 p.m. Chairman: Mr. F. G. Mamerr (Italy) Development of a 20-year Programme for Achieving Peace through the United Nations (document 26/EX/43). Draft Resolution Sub- mitted by the Executive Board (document
6C/DR/82). [1] The CHAIRMAN drew attention to document
26 EX/43, which explained the origins of the proposal before the Commission. [2] Mr. BERKELEY (Deputy Head, External Re- lations Service) explained that on 6 June 1950 the Secretary-General of the United Nations had circu- lated to all Members a 10-point memorandum regarding the development of a 20-year programme for achieving peace through the United Nations. Three of those 10 points (numbers 6, 7 and 8) were of particular interest to the Specialized Agencies. Annex I of document 26 EX/43 con- tained the resolution on those points which the Economic and Social Council had adopted on
20 March 1951 to call the attention of the Special ized Agencies to the Secretary-General's memoran- dum. Detailed comments on the three points were contained in Annex III. Document 6C/DR/82 was a draft resolution submitted by the Executive Board in compliance with the request of the Economic and Social Council. Thelast two paragraphs of the docu-