641 BUDGET COMMITTEE VIII-25 after the cuts had been made to keep the budget to $8,718,000, that balance should be allotted to the Field Science Co-operation Offices under the Natural Sciences Department. [78] The Committee agreed to take note of that request, pending final discussion on the programme. The meeting rose at 65.40 p.m. TWENTY-FIFTH MEETING Saturday, 7 July 1951, at 8.30 p.m. Chairman: Miss Caror Laise (United States of America) Liaison Services with Germany and Japan. [1] The CHAIRMAN explained that, as the joint meeting of the Programme and Official and External Relations Commissions had decided that $35,000 should be retained for liaison with Germany and Japan, that sum had to be found within the budget of $8,718,000 for 1952. To that end, it was suggested that $23,000 should be transferred from the External Relations Service, and that the remaining $12,000 should be found from the one per cent overall cut - to be made in order to finance the Fundamental Education Project. The Budget Committee had therefore to consider the proposed transfers and decide whether they were the most reasonable that could be made. [2] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) expressed concern at the proposal to maintain an office to help the German and Japanese National Commissions. Was it the intention that any Member might be given such assistance from Unesco? Or was the proposal purely transitional? [3] The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the Budget Committee was merely asked to say whether the financial proposals were reasonable, but not to give its opinion on the substance of the matter. [4] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) wanted to know the exact size of the reduction made in the budget of the External Relations Service as a result of the abolition of the section for liaison with Germany and Japan. According to his information, the budget for that Service stood at $370,000, including indirect costs. A further reduction of one per cent would therefore give a saving of only about $3,000, Instead of the $12,000 quoted. [5] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) stated that the total reduction for the offices for Germany and Japan, if it had been agreed to eliminate them entirely, would have been $110,000, plus $14,000 from indirect costs. Since, however, the joint meeting of the Programme and Official and External Relations Commissions had decided on the maintenance of a sum of $35,000, that amount had to be found. The $12,000 mentioned by the Chairman was not being cut from the budget of the External Relations Service, but was the balance from the $87,000 representing the one per cent overall cut on the budget, of which $75,000 would go to the Funda- mental Education Project, leaving $12,000 for the offices for Germany and Japan. [6] In reply to a question from Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) about the $8,000 which it had been pro- posed should be allocated to the Department of Natural Sciences, Mr. HODSON reminded him that, whereas a firm decision had been taken on the figure for the offices for Germany and Japan, the Programme Commission had merely expressed the wish that any balance available should be allocated to the Department of Natural Sciences. The Secre- tariat would be able to state on Monday, 9 July, whether or not that allotment would be feasible. [7] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) realized that the German and Japanese National Commissions would be in their initial stages in 1951, but he wondered why further help should be needed in 1952. A large number of Member States still had no properly established National Commissions, and Sir Frank therefore feared that additional demands on Unesco might be made to help those as well. [8] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations Service) recalled the discussion which had taken place in the joint meeting. It had been pointed out that, thanks to generous contributions from certain Member States, it had been possible to set up three C E E o   p =     VIII-25 BUDGET Institutes in Germany, to deal respectively with youth, the social sciences and the press. Fear had then been expressed by the United Kingdom delegate that, if all help were cut off, there would be a serious falling-off in continuity and in liaison with Unesco. Agreement had been almost unani- mous in the meeting that some help should still be supplied. The United Kingdom delegate had begun by moving a budget of $35,000, and a budget of $20,000 had finally been adopted. [9] The situation with regard to Japan was somewhat different, as a letter had been received from the Japanese Government, expressing fear that the services which had been established would collapse unless some aid was continued. Although the Diet would, it was hoped, set up a National Commission late in the autumn, the Japanese Government did not expect it to be operating effectively before the autumn of 1952, and if Unesco stopped its assistance, the first result of Japan’s becoming a Member of the Organization would be a falling-off in Unesco’s activities in that country. A United States motion to grant $15,000 for an office for Japan had, therefore, been adopted, subject to the decisions of the Budget Committee, in order to ensure continuity in Unesco’s activities. [10] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) was anxious that the Committee’s report should indicate that it was a purely transitional measure. He also asked that serious consideration should be given to the question whether it was really necessary, in an office with only three staff, to keep a head of grade 16. He was always prepared to trust the Administration to make the best possible arrange- ments and, if they were really satisfied of the need for a grade 16 post for the purpose, their decision would have to be accepted. [11] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) gave an assurance that the question would receive careful study. [12] The was approved. proposed re-allocation of funds Report of the Working Party of the Procedure Committee on the Implementation of the Biennial Principle (document 6C/PRO/12). [13] The CHAIRMAN said that the document concerned had been discussed at that morning’s meeting of the Administrative Commission. The Budget Committee was chiefly concerned with sub- paragraphs (2) and (3) on page 2, and with the third instruction to the Director-General contained in the draft resolution (second paragraph on page 5). She assumed that the latter would be interpreted by the Director-General in the light of the instructions COMMITTEE contained in the first two sub-paragraphs, to which it was directly related. [14] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) thought that, since the paper was to be discussed with the Procedure Committee on Monday, 9 July, the Secretariat could confine its remarks to sub-paragraph (3) on page 2. There was some uncertainty as to the meaning of the words “in greater detail”. Mr. Hodson therefore suggested that the phrase should be deleted, and that a sentence should be added at the end of the paragraph, stating: “More detail and precision would be expected in the first year than in the second.” [15] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) pro: posed that, since the document in question was merely preparatory, the Committee should accept it as a whole. That would give the Director-General an opportunity to study the matter more profoundly and to prepare a more concrete proposal for the following session of the Conference. [16] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) was not in favour of the amendment suggested by Mr. Hodson. In the first line of sub-paragraph (3), he would prefer to say simply: “in detail”. With regard to the suggestions contained in paragraph (5), page 2, he thought a definition should be given of the questions which might be included on the agenda of such short sessions. He pointed out, in particular, that all countries voted their budget annually, and that Finance Ministries wished to exercise control over the use of their national contributions. He asked, in addition, what would be the cost of those sessions, and wished the Secretariat to supply the Committee with estimates by Monday. He would put the cost at about $7,000. [17] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) thought that Mr. Guignolet had considerably more precise infor- mation than the Secretariat possessed. The Con- ference might cost anything from zero to several hundred thousand dollars. He pointed out that the current session had been supposed to be a short business session. Mr. WYNES (Australia) agreed with Mr. Gui- gnolet’s views on sub-paragraph (5) on page 2, and [18] furthermore wished to know whether “limited session” meant limitation of the number of States taking part or of the duration of such a session. [19] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) said he had been present at the meeting when the proposal had been made. What was meant was a limited session devoted in the main to supervising the budget. It was proposed originally to restrict the agenda to fifteen or so items, instead of the 150 odd items
643 EUD GET actually on the current Conference agenda. It had then been found possible to reduce that figure to five or six questions. Each country would be represented by one or two delegates who, in many cases, would be officials of Embassies established in Paris. The Conference would thus be attended by, at most, 60 to 120 persons. It would last 10 days, during four of which two committees would be working simultaneously. To save time, inter- pretation would be simultaneous. Costs would be limited to the upkeep of premises, and the hiring of simultaneous interpretation apparatus. Since no extra staff should be needed, the figure of $7,000 he had quoted before was a well-founded estimate of costs. The suggested procedure appeared to be more economical than convening special sessions of the Executive Board. It gave Member States a sounder guarantee, as well as meeting criticisms to the effect that the Executive Board, on which not all Member States were represented, was insuf- ficiently democratic. The procedure, moreover, would make it possible to give consideration to various questions cropping up between ordinary sessions of the General Conference, which would in future meet only at two-year intervals. [20] The CHAIRMAN thought the Committee was very fortunate in having had its work with the Procedure Committee so much facilitated by its Rapporteur. She suggested that Sir Frank Harby's proposal to adopt the document as a whole should be accepted. [21] Agreed. [22] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, COMM LT TEE VIII-26 Office of the Director-General) said that the Procedure Committee had wondered, since the report of the Budget Committee called only for the insertion of the four words “and the Budget Com- mittee” in one of the Rules of Procedure, whether it was necessary for all the members of that Committee to be present, or whether it would not suffice for the Rapporteur to represent them. [23] Agreed. [24] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) asked when the sections relating to Documents and Publications would be discussed. [25] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) replied that the Committee had already had an opportunity to discuss those sections in connexion with the other items of the programme. The total allocation of the Documents and Publications Service would, of course, be cut by one per cent in common with the other Departments, and there would also be a cut of $29,660 for Common Service Costs. [26] It was agreed that the Committee should meet on Monday, 9 July, to discuss the form and content of the budget for future years and the final report of the Committee. No final decision would be taken until Tuesday, since Sir Frank Harby would be unable to be present at the meeting on Monday. The Tuesday meeting would approve the final report to the Conference and the appropriation table. The meeting rose at 5.05 p.m. TWENTY-SIXTH MEETING Monday, 9 July 1951, at 10.30 a.m. Chairman: Mr. F. Benner (Netherlands) Programme of Work. [1] The CHAIRMAN referred to the decision taken at the Committee’s previous meeting to discuss sug- gestions regarding the form of the budget for future presentation as an entirely seperate subject. The report of the Working Party of the Procedure Com- mittee on the question of biennal sessions (document
6C/PRO/12) would merely be noted by the Com- mittee, since its terms were too general to permit detailed discussion on the form of the budget. [2] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) pointed out that the Budget Committee had to examine sub-paragraph (5) on page 2 of the Procedure Committee's report (document 6C/PRO/12), with regard to the pos- sibility of holding a limited session of the General Conference every two years to deal with financial