P E I J C ]   — z r ي ي — CHAPTER IT] GENERAL COMMITTEE FIRST MEETING Tuesday, 19 June 1951, at 8 p.m. Chairman: Mr. HowLanD SARGEANT (United States of America) Nominations for the Offices of Chairman, Vice- Chairman and Rapporteur of the Various Organs of the Conference. [1] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) recalled that the Executive Board, at its last session had, at his suggestion, agreed on the follow- ing principle: its Chairman was to represent the Board and uphold its point of view on the various commissions and committees of the General Confer- ence. But, since the Chairman was-not able to attend all meetings, the Vice-Chairman of the Ex- ecutive Boarditself, and the Chairmen of the Board's Committees, should also be empowered to represent it at the Conference. Count Jacini asked the General Committee to ratify that procedure. [2] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL had a suggestion to make: at the plenary meeting that morning, he had proposed that the Procedure Committee should consider revising the Rules of Procedure to increase the number of Vice-Presidents from 7 to 10. Everyone was aware of the important effect such appointments had on the attitude of the various delegations. If, at the end of the current session, Unesco had 64 Member States, 10 Vice-Presidents would be a reasonable number, that of course being the absolute maximum. [3] The Executive Board, for the reasons just ex- plained by its Chairman, had found it essential for the Chairmen of the Committees of the Executive Board to have authority to represent the Board at the Conference; but it had also been agreed, that, if some of the Chairmen of the Conference Com- missions or Committees were persons who already held the post of Chairman of a Committee of the Executive Board, the Chairman of the Board would have to appoint other members to represent the Executive Board on those organs of the Conference. [4] On the other hand, feeling in favour of fair geographical representation in the membership of the General Committee was steadily growing. The General Committee had obviously to take that prin- ciple into consideration, but it was difficult to apply in practice, since, in appointing Chairmen, it was necessary to bear in mind that, in the various Com- missions and Committees, ability was also of very great importance. The Director-General felt sure that the Committee would find a solution to the problem. [6] The CHAIRMAN reminded the Committee that, in making its suggestions to the Nominations Com- mittee, it had to conform to the principles set out in document 6C/NOM/2. [6] Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) put for- ward a list of proposals which might serve as a basis for discussion, with the sole aim of having as representative a series of officers as possible. [7] The CHAIRMAN read out the following list, pointing out that the United Kingdom proposals for the officers of the Committee on Reports of Member States would give every opportunity for full geogra- phical representation. Programme Commission. Chairman: Switzerland; Vice-Chairmen: Pakistan and Mexico; Rapporteur: Haiti. Administrative Commission. Chairman: Belgium; Vice-Chairmen: Iraq and Liberia or India; Rapporteur: Sweden. Official and External Relations Commission. Chairman: Brazil; Vice-Chairmen: New Zealand and Austria; Rap- porteur: Indonesia. Procedure Committee. Chairman: Turkey; Vice- Chairmen: Italy and Venezuela; Rapporteur: Thailand. Committee on Reports of Member States. Chairman: Philippines; Vice-Chairmen: Israel and Liberia; Rap- porteur: Greece. [8] TAHA HUSSEIN Pasha (Egypt) having proposed that the Chairmanship of the Official and External Relations Commission should be given to Italy,   HI-1 GENERAL Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) pointed out that the list submitted by his delegation took geographical distribution into account, as well as avoiding having two representatives of the same country among the officers of the General Conference. Italy might be considered to be in some way represented by Count Jacini as Chairman of the Executive Board. [9] Count JACINI pointed out that, since he was present not as delegate of Italy but as Chairman of the Executive Board, he had not even the right to vote. It was perfectly admissible therefore, that there should be a representative of Italy. [10] Mr. MANACH (Chairman of the Nominations Committee) proposing that one of the offices should be given to Brazil, recalled that there was only one South American country in the United Kingdom list, and further that it might be wise, in view of certain occurences, to consider Brazil’s aspirations. [11] Mr. SIASSI (Iran) recalled the principle laid down by the Director-General: in the selection of Chairmen and Vice-Chairmen, the Committee should take account not only of geographical distribution but also of the special abilities of the persons ap- pointed to those posts. He proposed that the prin- ciple should be applied as followed: for the impor- tant Commissions and- Committees the deciding factor should be the personality of the Chairman; for the posts of Vice-Chairmen and Rapporteurs, the principle of geographical distribution should take precedence. [12] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that the question of -distribution of offices did not come within his competence; but he wished to draw the Committee's attention to the fact that the Chairmen and Vice-Chairmen of the Committee on Reports of Member States should, of course, be nationals of countries which had sent in reports. [13] The CHAIRMAN agreed. [14] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) greatly appreciated the chivalry of the Cuban delegate’s gesture in favour of Brazil, but was bound to point out that Mr. de Berredo Carneiro had been nominated by the Conference for the office of Chairman of the Executive Board, which was certainly a more responsible post than that to which it was proposed to appoint him. [15] Mr. MONTEL (France) asked whether the Committee could be given a list of the States which had sent in reports, or, if more convenient, a list of States which had not yet sent in reports. It might then be possible to give Italy the position the Com- mittee would like to offer her. COMMITTEE 238 [16] Mr. MONTAGNIER said that, to date,
40 Member States had sent in reports: 20 before the closing date fixed by the Executive Board, and the other 20 between that date and 19 June. The docu- ment on the reports of Member States (6C/4) contained the list of States in the first group; the second was composed of Yugoslavia, Iran, Pakistan, India, New Zealand, Venezuela, Hashemite Jordan, Norway, Colombia, United States of America, United Kingdom, Afghanistan, Egypt, Salvador, Monaco, Denmark, Honduras, China, Thailand and Iraq. [17] Mr. MONTEL (France) remarked that, since Israel had not sent in a report, the General Com- mittee had one Vice-Chairmanship available. Since there was a general desire to confer on Italy, whose culture had played so important a role in the progress of humanity, the place to which she was entitled, he proposed that the post of Chairman should be filled by Italy, and that of Vice-Chairman by the Philippines. [18] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) thanked the French delegate for his pro- posal. He pointed out that Italy had wanted the Chairmanship of the Official an External Relations Commission and had, for that reason, nominated an ambassador for the post. Subject to that reservation, it went without saying that Italy would be pleased to accept the proposal just made. Mr. MANACH (Cuba) and TAHA HUSSEIN Pasha (Egypt) concurred in theproposal. [19] [20] Mr. ZABALA MUNIZ (Uruguay) declared that although, in the circumstances of the case, the Director-General’s proposal might be justified, he did no think that in principle it was fair. The Director-General, in his eloquent speech that day, had said that many of the National Commissions of Unesco had not yet got to work as they should. In view of that, Mr. Zabala Muniz thought that to bar any Member State, in a general way, from serving on a Committee would be equivalent to denying that State the opportunity to offer full co-operation. After voicing the desire of the Uruguayan delegation to co-operate wherever possible, Mr. Zabala Muniz concluded by saying that, though he was prepared, in the case in question, to support the principle in- volved, he did not, as a general criterion, consider it entirely just. [21] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that he was not advancing a general principle, but simply the opinion that a committee which was to study reports of Member States should be formed of representatives of countries which had sent in such reports. [22] Mr. ZABALA MUNIZ (Uruguay) admitted that    x e n , с Y + س ي ‎ r r — — i O p T A N T n ج ح ي ‎
239 GENERAL the Director-General was right on that point. He would, nevertheless, point out that an impartial observer who had put forward no proposals himself might bring a freer mind to consideration of the proposals of others. He stressed that he did not wish to make it a question of substance. [23] The CHAIRMAN summed up the position reached in the discussion. The alterations in the original United Kingdom list amounted to the withdrawal of India as a candidate for the Adminis- trative Commission, on the proposal of Sir Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, and to Mr. Montel’s proposal that Italy should have the Chairmanship of the Com- mittee on Reports of Member States. He assumed that in the interests of geographical representation, the Committee would agree to withdraw Italy's candidature for the Official and External Relations Commission and possibly also for the Vice- Chairmanship of the Procedure Committee. Liberia was still proposed for two different offices. [24] Mr. MONTEL (France) remarked that two Vice-Chairmanships thus remained vacant: those for which India and possibly Liberia had been pro- posed. He would be pleased to see one of those posts occupied by Peru. [25] TAHA HUSSEIN Pasha (Egypt) suggested that, in the circumstances, the Chairmanship of the Committee on Reports of Member States should go to the representative of Brazil and that of the Official and External Relations Commission, to Italy. [26] The CHAIRMAN replied that, unfortunately, Brazil had not sent in a report. [27] TAHA HUSSEIN Pasha (Egypt) said that, in that case, the representative of Brazil might be appointed Chairman of the Programme Commission. [28] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out that the Chairmanship of the Programme Commission had already been held by the delegate of Brazil. Moreover, it was a tradition that the Chair of that Commission should be occupied by the delegate presiding over the corresponding Committee of the Executive Board. It was for that reason that Mr. Carneiro and Mr. Seydoux had held the post successively. Thanks to their personal ability and to the experience they had acquired in the course of a year’s work, they had fulfilled the function admirably. Since Italy had said that she would be satisfied with the Chairmanship of the Committee on Reports of Member States, a solution seemed to be within reach: Peru might take the place of Liberia on the Administrative Commission, whilst Liberia took the Vice-Chairmanship of the Committee COMMITTEE Il: on Reports of Member States and Iraq that of the Procedure Committee. Israel might take the Vice- Chairmanship of the Administrative Commission while the other Vice-Chairmanship of the. Committee on Reports of Member States might be conferred on the Philippines. [29] The CHAIRMAN thought that the Committee’s main wishes could be met if the French proposal were accepted, making Italy the Chairman of the Committee on Reports of Member States and leaving the Chairmanship of the Official and External Rela- tions Commission to Brazil; in view of the heavy burden of work before the Conference, Peru and Israel might both be made Vice-Chairmen of the Administrative Commission. The alterations to the original list would then be: Administrative Commission. Vice-Chairmen: Peru and Israel. Official and External Relations Commission. Chairman: Brazil. Procedure Committee. Vice-Chairmen: Venezuela and Iraq. Committee on Reports of Member States. Chairman: Italy; Vice-Chairmen: Philippines and Liberia. [30] TAHA HUSSEIN Pasha (Egypt) was averse to introducing politics into Unesco. Nevertheless, he proposed, if it were possible, that the General Com- mittee should wait a further year, until the situation in the Near Fast had become clearer, before confer- ring on Israel the Vice-Chairmanship of a Com- mission: that appointment would obviously cause embarrassment in certain Near Eastern countries, which would find it difficult to co-operate in the work of the Commission. Would it not be possible to avoid that step for the moment? [31] The CHAIRMAN was glad that the delegate of Egypt has spoken so candidly. [32] Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom), and Mr. MONTEL (France), regretted that they were obliged to disagree with the Egyptian delegate’s view. [33] The CHAIRMAN was anxious that whatever proposal was adopted by the Committee, it should be such as would aid the Conference to accomplish its work efficiently and well. If it were feared that the introduction of a certain delegation would hamper the work, it would be better to eliminate it; if not, the proposal should be accepted. [34] Mr. MANACH (Chairman of the Nominations Committee) thought that the situation was rather delicate. If the Israeli delegation were to hear that such a motion had been favourably received in the General Committee, its sensibilities might be hurt, e   III-1 GENERAL and the decision would tend to be interpreted as a kind of veto, which was surely hardly admissible. [35] TAHA HUSSEIN Pasha (Egypt) had not meant to pronounce a veto, but simply to draw attention to a situation for which he was not responsible. The position was very simple: if the General Com- mittee did not want to collaborate with some Arab countries on certain Commissions or Committees, it was free to say so. [36] Sir Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India) thought that, since Israel was proposed only for a Vice-Chairmanship, there was no reason why any of the Arab States should refuse to collaborate withit in that capacity. [37] Mr. STONE (Chairman of the Credentials Committee), speaking as a lawyer, considered that there were no grounds for excluding one State because it was disagreeable to another, any more than there would be for the contrary procedure. The objection seemed in any case irrelevant to the discussion. [38] The CHAIRMAN thought that the Chairman of the Credentials Committee had recalled an important principle. He proposed to submit the question to the vote, and hoped that any dissenting delegate would accept the majority view and do his utmost to persuade his delegation to do the same. The principle was of importance to Unesco and its democratic processes. [39] Mr. ZABALA MUNIZ (Uruguay) had no wish to pass judgment on the attitude of the Arab countries in the matter under discussion; and added that he would support Israel's nomination. In explanation of his decision, he said that, even as in his country they were not accustomed to ask a man whence he came or what were his intentions, but only whether he was prepared to work for democracy and peace, so in Unesco all differences should be forgotten in the cause of the peace and progress of mankind. [40] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) was confident that all delegates, who were united in their profound esteem and respect for Taha Hussein Pasha, fully understood the cost to him of the gesture which, for painful reasons known to all of them, he had felt bound to make. As Chairman of the Executive Board, however, he implored the delegate of Egypt to go no further. He had done what he thought was his duty, and the Committee had noted his proposal. If the Arab States adopted a negative attitude simply because a Vice-Chairmanship had been bestowed on the State of Israel, a disastrous precedent would be COMMITTEE 240 set. In the name of the principles for which Unesco stood, he entreated Taha Hussein Pasha to go no further. [41] The proposed list, after amendment in accord- ance with the discussion which had taken place, was put to the vote. [42] It was adopted, with all the votes cast in favour, the delegate of Egypt abstaining. [43] TAHA HUSSEIN Pasha (Egypt) said that he had abstained because the proposal was likely to prejudice the harmony which should reign in any international organization. [44] The CHAIRMAN said that the list would be communicated to the Nominations Committee. [45] Mr. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) assumed that the wording of Rule 25(3) of the Rules of Procedure would not prevent the addition of the Committee on Reports of Member States. [46] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) explained that that Committee had been included as a result of discussions in the Executive Board. [47] The CHAIRMAN added that was further covered by Rule 86. the Committee Organization of the Work of the Sixth Session (document 6C/BUR/1). [48] | [49] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL fully understood the request of the Chairman of the Budget Com- mittee. The work of that Committee had expanded beyond expectations because of the view it took of its responsibilities. It would be for the Conference to make a decision. If, however, the Budget Com- mittee’s attention to detail resulted in such delays, it would affect the work of all organs of the Confer- ence, whose agenda was already overburdened. The Director-General urgently requested the Chair- man of the Budget Committee, therefore, to have his report ready for discussion on the morning of
29 June at the latest. That was the only way of preventing an interminable delay, with all the psychological consequences involved. [50] Mr. BENDER (Chairman of the Budget Com- Mr. BENDER (Chairman of the Budget Com- mittee) asked whether, in view of the large volume of work outstanding, it would be possible to post- pone the submission of the Budget Committee’s Report until Monday, 25 June. J — — s o m — . ا م و ج ه ‎ R U y e    و ج و م س ا ل س ل ا س ا ل ا #
241 СЕМЕНА mittee) was very anxious not to delay the work of the General Conference, and was grateful for the extra two days allowed. [61] It was decided to adopt the recommendation, SECOND COMMITTEE 111-2 made in advance of the Conference, that delegations should be allowed a maximum of 15 minutes each in speaking on the Programme. The meeting rose at 5 p.m. MEETING Thursday, 21 June 1951, at 9.30 a.m. Chairman: Organization of the Work of the Session (con- tinuation) (document 6C/BUR/1). [1] Mr. STONE (Chairman of the Credentials Com- mittee) said that his Committee would be able to submit its report to the Conference at the afternoon meeting, unless it felt obliged to give further con- sideration to a particularly delicate question, which would require an additional meeting. Should that be the case, there would be no point in submitting the final report until Saturday morning's plenary meeting. [2] The Committee had asked him to inform the General Committee of the difficult problem of China. There were two questions to be settled: the first related to the validity of the credentials submitted by the representatives of the Formosa Government, and the second, to the possibility of allowing the Chinese delegation to vote, despite the fact that China had not paid her contribution. [3] The Committee had arrived at a satisfactory conclusion on the first point. As for the second, it felt that to use discretionary powers for the benefit of a State which had failed to meet its obligations might have considerable repercussions upon the Budget; that was a matter for the General Com- mittee to consider. [4] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) agreed that the Crendentials Committee was not the body best qualified to consider the financial repercussions of the question. He asked the Director-General whether the most correct solution would not be to refer the problem to the Procedure Committee, once the report of the Credentials Committee had been adopted by the General Conference. [6] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL thought that, as legal considerations were foremost in the matter, it Mr. HowLAnD SARGEANT (United States of America) was certainly one for the Procedure Committee to deal with. [6] Mr. LAPIE (France) and Mr. ZABALA MUNIZ (Uruguay) supported the United Kingdom dele- gate’s proposal. [7] The General Committee therefore decided that the question of the Chinese delegation’s right to vote should be referred to the Procedure Committee. Admission of New Members. [8] The CHAIRMAN announced that the procedure proposed for the General Conference was the follow- ing: the Chairman of the Executive Board would report on the proposed admission of five new Mem- bers. After the discussion and voting were con- cluded, the representatives of the new Member States admitted would each make a brief speech. [9] The proposed procedure was approved. Seat of the Seventh Session. [10] The CHAIRMAN reminded the meeting that the Executive Board, at its Twenty-sixth Session, had taken note of the Director-General’s report on the place and date of the next Session. He summarized the suggestions in that report (document 26/EX/6). [11] The Chairman pointed out that the Confer- ence would have to come to a decision on the matter as rapidly as possible; he hoped that a report could be submitted to the afternoon meeting. [12] Mr. ZABALA MUNIZ (Uruguay) said that, soon after his arrival in Paris, he had suggested, in