CHAPTER ХТ HEADQUARTERS COMMITTEE MEETING Wednesday, 27 June 1951, at 3.30 p.m. Chairman: Mr. C. A. THomson (United States of America) | | | | | FIRST | | | | Election of the Rapporteur. | [1] Mr. Davies (Australia) was unanimously | elected Rapporteur. | Exchange of Views on the Preliminary Draft Resolution to the General Conference. Acceptance of the Offer from the French Govern- ment of a Loan and a Building Site. | [2] Mr. de LACHARRIERE (France) said that the | amount of the loan had been left unstated because | fluctuations in the cost of building might require slight adjustments therein. The French Govern- | ment would be willing to make any such adjustments, provided that the amount of the loan remained | reasonably close to the figure of two thousand million French francs. | [3] The Commission should decide whether to re- | commend the acceptance of the loan. The Ministry ) of Reconstruction and Town Planning had suggested | the site of the “Caserne de Fontenoy” because that site was the only one which fulfilled the re- | quirements of situation and size and was, at the same time, within the outer boulevards of Paris. | Measures would be taken to make the site available | as soon as the General Conference had formally | decided to build the new headquarters in Paris. [4] Mr. THIEBAUT (French Ministry of Recon- struction and Town Planning) drewattention to the suitability of the site, which was large enough to allow for the provision of the necessary open spaces and was easy of access thanks to the wide avenues surrounding it. [5] Mr. CARLU (Chief Government Architect to the French Government) informed the Commission that there would be a limit to the height of the building. The law prohibited the construction of buildings behind the “École Militaire” which would be visible to an observer standing by the Seine at the foot of the Eiffel Tower. He thought that a building on the Fontenoysite might have five or six normal storeys. [6] Mr. MONTAGNIER (Head, Bureau of Confer- ence Planning and General Services) said that in
1950 building costs had been estimated at 35,000 francs per square metre of ground area. That cost had since increased to 45,000 francs. The special installations for simultaneous interpretation and re- production of documents accounted for part of the margin by which the latter official figure exceeded the normal estimates for a building of the pro- portions envisaged. [7] In reply to Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom), Mr. MONTAGNIER said that the large increase was due to inflation. He assured Mr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) that the estimates would be recalculated with greater accuracy as soon as more information was available on the kind of building required. [8] Mr. de LACHARRIERE (France) said that the increase was less noticeable when the amounts were stated in dollars, because part was due to French inflation and part to the increase in price of raw materials. [9] Mr. MONTAGNIER (Head, Bureau of Confer- ence Planning and General Services) pointed out that the difference between the increase when the costs were estimated in dollars and the increase when stated in French francs was theoretical. [10] Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) asked in what currency the loan would be repaid. If the dollar exchange rate fluctuated, the amount of the loan in French francs might increase or decrease. [11] Mr. MONTAGNIER (Head, Bureau of Confer-        XIII-1 ence Planning and General Services) said that the amount of the loan would be fixed in French francs. The figure had been quoted in dollars for reasons of convenience, since the budget estimates of the Organization were framed in dollars. [12] Mr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) suggested that the currency of reimbursement should be clearly stated. [13] Agreed. [14] The CHAIRMAN asked whether, in determin- ing the amount of the loan, any allowance would be made for inflation or deflation. [15] Mr: de LACHARRIERE (France) recalled his earlier statement, and assured the meeting that his Government was willing to make small adjustments. Of course, any increase from two to four thousand million francs would call for a complete reconsider- ation of the matter. [16] Mr. BILLY (French Ministry of Finance) pointed out that the more speedily the building could be erected, the fewer would be the adjust- ments required. Immediate Selection, with the Approval of the Headquarters Commission, of an Architect to Supervise Construction. [17] Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) thought that the matter would require further consideration, since it brought up the problem of whether a single architect or a group of architects should be appointed. He considered that it would be extremely dangerous to entrust the whole project to a single architect chosen by the Director-General unaided. He would favour a competition between a few architects of world-wide repute, as the re- sponsibility of selecting an architect was too great for one man to bear. [18] Mr. MONTAGNIER (Head, Bureau of Confer- ence Planning and General Services) said that, if the General Conference continued to view the question in the same way as at the Fifth Session
(5C/Proceedings, pages 642-644), it would probably entrust the building to a single architect approved by the Headquarters Commission. If the Com- mission considered that course unadvisable, it should express that opinion in a recommendation. [19] Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) considered that the Headquarters Commission alone might not feel qualified to advise the Director-General on so technical a matter. Personally, he would feel obliged to bring a United Kingdom architect to any meeting at which such advice was to be given. [20] Mr. EL DIWANY(Egypt) agreed with Mr. de HEADQUARTERS COMM UT TEE Berredo Carneiro. When a public building was to be put up in Egypt, the requirements were published, together with the necessary data, and architects were invited to submit plans. A committee was then appointed to select the prize-winner, and con- solation prizes were awarded for the plans of highest merit. The winning architect was then given an interest in the construction of the building. If the sum of $5,000 “for the preparation of construction proposals”, mentioned in document 5C/Resolutions, item 26.2, was intended to reward the winning architect and compensate others who had submitted good plans, it was, in his opinion, totally inadequate. [21] Mr. de LACHARRIERE (France) stated thal architects would not be given an entirely free hand in the choice of style. The requirements of the neighbouring buildings and the “ École Militaire”, in particular, would impose certain limitations. Any building in the area would have to be approved by the French authorities, and the opinion of the “Conseil des Bâtiments de France” would also be valuable. He suggested that, as a safeguard, some reference to the French authorities should be made in paragraph (c) of the resolution for submission to the General Conference. [22] Agreed. [23] Mr. THIEBAUT (French Ministry of Recon- struction and Town Planning) said that it was usual for his Ministry to deal with the scale model of a monument, whereas the plans for the actual building were prepared elsewhere. [24] In reply to a question from Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom), the SECRETARY informed the meeting that the style and general principles of the new United Nations headquarters in New York had been decided by a single architect with the advice of a board of design consultants from various coun- tries. The final constructional details had been entrusted to a single architect. The international experts, however, were not well acquainted with the problems of building in New York and the exigencies of the site, so that their advice had sometimes hampered rather than facilitated the completion of the building. [25] Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) agreed that the procedure had proved unsatisfactory and maintained his view that a restricted competition between architects chosen by the Headquarters Commission would be necessary. [26] Mr. CARLU (Chief Government Architect to the French Government) agreed that the general plan would have to be approved by the Ministry of Reconstruction and Town Planning and the Ministry of Fine Arts, and that competitors should have a       BEAD QUARTERS first-hand knowledge of the site. He considered that a single architect should be in charge, although he should be encouraged to seek advice. [27] Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) thought that the suggestion put forward by Mr. de Berredo Carneiro and Mr. El Diwany might give rise to the very dissatisfaction which they wished to avoid. There would be general dissatisfaction because the competition was not an open one, and dissatisfaction among the competitors because one only had been chosen. He therefore considered that the appoint- ment of a single architect would prove more satis- factory. The architect selected would have to work within the limitations of style imposed by the sile, and would not be able to give free rein to his ima- gination; there would therefore be little danger that the building would be too personal in style. [28] Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) did not share Mr. Cowell’s view. The controversies which had arisen in connexion with the recon- struction of bomb-damaged towns indicated how much more violent might be the controversy aroused by the erection of an international building. It was therefore desirable that so monumental a building should be the work of more than one architect. [29] The CHAIRMAN said that, in considering the suggestion that there should be a limited com- petition, the Commission should bear in mind the following problems which were implicit in that procedure:
(1) there would have to be a method of selecting the architects to participate in the competition and a decision on the number to be admitted;
(2) criteria would have to be fixed for selection of the winning design;
(3) consolation prizes would have to be awarded;
(4) only a very short time would be available for the completion of the competition. the [30] Mr. THIEBAUT (French Ministry of Recon- struction and Town Planning) suggested that the process might comprise two stages: the first—prepa- ration of overall plans and models and integration of the building in the district, for which the French authorities would be responsible; and the second— execution of the work, by a single architect or a team of architects. If a solution of that kind were adopted, his Government would willingly assume the responsibilities it implied. [31] Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) said that Mr. Thiébaut's suggestion did not meet his point. It was precisely the first stage that would give rise to controversy on grounds of style, and it was therefore at that stage that a number of architects would be required. The later stages could easily be entrusted to a single architect. COMMITTEE XIII-1 [32] Mr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) suggested that an international board of architects might be called upon to approve the models. That would be an additional safeguard for the Headquarters Com- mission, which might not feel competent to express an opinion on technical matters. The appointment of such a board might be advisable, whether a single architect were chosen or not. [33] Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) said that the procedure for building a national monu- ment in his country was similar to that outlined by the delegate of Egypt, and that his only concern was to provide, on the international plane, the safeguards which the holding of a competition provided on the national plane. [34] Mr. THIEBAUT (French Ministry of Re- construction and Town Planning) outlined the procedure adopted by the Organization for European Economic Co-operation. [35] The Commission agreed that that procedure should be recommended. [36] Mr. CAIN (France) then formulated a new clause (b) to replace the existing clauses (b) and (c) in the preliminary draft resolution, reading as follows: To draw up, by an architect provisionally appointed by the Director-General, in consultation with the competent French services, a general plan to be submitted for their observations to four architects of international standing, in different countries. They will make their recommen- dations to the Director-General who, after consultation with the Headquarters Commission, will designate an architect to be entrusted with the execution of the work. [37] On a proposal by Mr. EL. DIWANY (Egypt), seconded by Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil), it was agreed that the general plan should be sub- mitted to five architects of international repute. [38] The text proposed by Mr. Cain was unani- mously approved, with that amendment, on the understanding that the five architects would be appointed by the Director-General on the advice of the Headquarters Commission. Establishment, with the Approval of the Head- quarters Commission, of the Procedures and Arrangements Necessary to Facilitate the Con- struction. [39] No comments New Introductory Paragraph. [40] Mr. de LACHARRIERE (France) proposed the insertion, at the beginning of the draft resolution, of a new paragraph stating the principle that the “General Conference decides to construct the Per-
1111-1 manent Headquarters of the Organization in Paris”. He made the suggestion for administrative and legal reasons only because, in the past, the French Govern- ment had been much hampered by the absence of a phrase to that effect. [41] Agreed. [42] Mr. van de KERCHOVE d'HALLEBAST (Belgium), taking up a suggestion made by Mr. EL DIWANY (Egypt), proposed that the new paragraph might be a suitable place to insert an expression of gratitude to the French Government. [43] Agreed. Use of the Site. [44] Mr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) asked whether it was understood that Unesco was to be the sole occupant of the site. The opinion of the General Conference might be determined by the answer to that question. [45] Mr. de LACHARRIERE (France) said that as much of the site would be made available to Unesco as the Organization required, allowing a suitable margin for green spaces and parking. There was a plan to use the rest of the site for the construction of a “Conference Building”, if Unesco accepted the loan and site. The construction of such a building in the vicinity of the new Unesco Headquarters would offer the Organization the advantage of not having to build a large and costly hall for plenary meetings to be held every two years at the most. [46] Mr. THIEBAUT (French Ministry of Re- construction and Town Planning) assured the Com- mission that any other buildings erected near the Unesco Headquarters would be worthy of their site. The closest collaboration between the architects would be essential. [47] Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) con- sidered that the General Conference would have to make all necessary reservations regarding the area which would be required for its Headquarters. No accurate estimates could be made until plans were available. He would enter a firm reservation con- cerning the use of the site offered for other purposes. [48] Mr. MONTAGNIER (Head, Bureau of Confer- ence Planning and General Services) suggested that the General Conference might also indicate that Unesco would leave the French Government an option on any part of the site unused. Exchange of Views on the Repayment of the Loan. [49] After a discussion, during which Mr. de HEAD QUARTERS COMMITTEE BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) urged the represen- tatives of the French Government to make the maximum concessions in fixing the term of the loan, and Mr. MONTAGNIER (Head, Bureau of Confer. ence Planning and General Services) suggested that the first payment might be made as soon as the budgetary provision for the rent of the existing building ceased to be required, the Commission agreed to recommend repayment of the loan in
30 annual instalments. [60] Mr. MANIFACIER (French Ministry of Finance) said that the French Government had been unable to go into the methods of repayment until Unesco took a formal decision to accept the loan. He urged the Commission to press for the repayment of the loan within a period not exceeding 30 years. [51] Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) understood that the question of principle (that was to say, the building of the new Headquarters) was not yet settled. He drew attention to an aspect of the matter which gave rise to difficulty in the United Kingdom; it was difficult for his Government to justify to the public the building of offices of that kind at a time when there was a serious housing shortage. [62] It was understood that the question of principle was held over for future consideration, although Resolution 26, adopted by the General Con- ference at its Fifth Session, pointed to the acceptance of the loan and the decision to build. Informal Discussion of the Future Role of the Headquarters Commission. [53] The CHAIRMAN opened the discussion by reading Resolution 29 adopted by the General Confer- ence at its Fourth Session (4C/Resolutions, Section
111, Annex III, page 25). [64] Mr. de LACHARRIÈRE (France) considered that the Headquarters Commission had an important part to play in advising the Director-General. He was strongly in favour of its continuing in existence, although its terms of reference would have to be reviewed. [55] Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) sug- gested that Member States might be invited to con- tribute to the decoration of the interior of the new building. The Headquarters Commission would be indispensable as a liaison body. [56] The Commission agreed to take note of the French representative's opinion. The meeting rose at 6 p.m. y | | ) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |