SUD GET COMMITTEE VIII-16 SIXTEENTH MEETING Tuesday, 19 June 1951, at 10.30 a.m. Chairman: Mr. F. BENDER (Netherlands) Examination of the Budget Estimates (con- tinuation) [document 6C/5 (IT) J. General Administration (continuation) (Part IT). OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL (continuation) Legal Affairs (continuation) (page 61). [1] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) enquired whether it was necessary to spend so much on a Legal Affairs unit whose work was mainly connected with conventions which were not enforceable by Unesco. [2] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) indicated briefly, in reply to questions asked the previous day, the extent to which the Organization’s work was concerned with law, and justified the permanent employment of legal experts on the Secretariat. [3] Direct action was one aspect of the Organiza- tion's work, the other being concerned with legal texts and the establishment of regulations or stan- dards. In its direct action the Organization had to observe the law—the Constitution, international law and national laws. Mr. Saba reminded the Com- mittee that the Legal Affairs unit was frequently consulted by the Executive Board when, in the course of its discussions, it required an immediate opinion on a particular question; thus, on financial matters alone, the unit had had to give advice on three or four occasions during the year (legal consideration of the appropriation of budgetary surpluses for a particular financial year; the regularity of accounts for the Working Capital Fund; India’s request for a refund of part of its contribution for 1947, which it had paid in full and on which it had subsequently considered itself entitled to a reduction, in view of the division of the country into India and Pakistan; the sum involved had been roughly $10,000). An- other important question referred to the Legal Affairs unit had to do with the interpretation of those pro- visions of the Constitution and of the Financial Regulations concerning conditions for the acceptance of gifts and bequests; Mr. Saba mentioned, in that connexion, a donation of several hundred thousand dollars received from the United States of America as a contribution towards the establishment of an Institute in Germany, a problem that had required very thorough consideration. [4] Unesco’s action had to accord not only with its Constitution but also with international law and national laws—as in the case of the many international specialist organizations set up by Unesco and car- rying out independent action in close collaboration with the Organization (International Association of Universities, Council for the Co-ordination of Inter- national Congresses of Medical Sciences, International Computation Centre, Commission for a Scientific and Cultural History of Mankind, Advisory Committee on Monuments, etc.). Mr. Saba said that between
80 and 100 international organizations had been approved for consultative status with Unesco; some of them already had statutes, which were not always in conformity with international law; and it was Unesco’s duty to give them all the legal assistançe they required. The International Law Institute was dealing with the important question of the inter- national status to be given to non-governmental organizations, and there again it was Unesco’s duty to collaborate with that Institute. The work con- tracts concluded by Unesco likewise had to be in line with national legal systems. [6] The second function of the Organization was to establish standards; in that instance, it was no longer a question of conforming to existing law, but of framing new legal instruments—a function prescribed by the Constitution. Unesco proposed conventions necessitating the introduction of specific legal provisions in the legislation of different coun- tries. Mr. Saba hoped that his brief account would reassure the United Kingdom delegate, and expressed his willingness to supply any further information desired. [6] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) asked whether a simpler procedure would not be for the Executive Board to take a decision, which would, with the Budget Committee’s advice, be transmitted directly to the General Conference without requiring the opinion of the Legal Branch. [7] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) reminded members that the Constitution was a contract between
60 nations, and that those nations could call for explanations in regard to any work carried out by the Organization in compliance with the Constitution and the Regulations, both of which provided for the possibility of disputes arising as to their interpre- tation and application. Some action might be called    VIII-16 BUD CET in question by the Executive Board, by the Con- ference or by one of its Commissions or Committees; the matter was then referred to the Procedure Com- mittee, which might decide to submit it, for an opinion, either to an Arbitral Tribunal or to, the International Court of Justice. Contractual Printing (page 53). [8] The CHAIRMAN wondered whether it was necessary to publish an analysis of cultural conven- tions; they were simple documents and those so far entered into by his country, the Netherlands, were standard in form. [9] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) pointed out that, like all contracts, the Constitution provided for sanc- tions of varying severity, by which the relative numberof breaches of the contract wouldbe affected. He added that such a sanction had been applied the day before, under that international contract, when certain States, which had failed to pay their contribu- tion for a certain period, had been deprived of their voting rights at the Conference. Thus there was definitely a contract and an enforcement of that contract. Fees (page 53). НО] Mr. KRSTIC (Yugoslavia) saw no clear need for the sum of $1,500 requested as fees for outside legal experts, since there was a permanent Legal Affairs Unit responsible for handling all legal problems encountered by the Organization. [11] Miss LAISE (United States of America) agreed. [12] The CHAIRMAN, while admitting that the item related to a programme resolution, reminded the meeting that, the previous year, the Budget Com- mittee had considered the staff of the Legal Affairs Unit to be capable of carrying out the work anti- cipated. He believed that the staff was still adequate for that job. [13] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) regretted he could not agree with the other members of the Committee as the degree of importance -they attached to Unesco's Legal Affairs Unit. His wide diplomatic experience had convinced him of the impossibility of dealing with international affairs without the direct as- sistance of legal experts. His university training and his extensive activities abroad led him to the con- clusion that it was impossible to conclude any negotiation without having recourse to legal experts. [14] Whenever it was necessary to arrive at a formula, or whenever explicit or implicit legal dis- putes were being dealt with, diplomats had to seek the assistance of experts in law. Mr. Brull had taken part in international negotiations in France, Italy, COMMITTEE 596 Belgium, Spain, the United States of America, and Canada, and he had never been able to do without such experts’ valuable co-operation. [15] For instance, he recalled that a few days pre- viously he had been obliged to draft a diplomatic document, and though he was familiar with the laws of the country concerned, in which he was | accredited as representative of Cuba, at the last moment he had had to consult a legal friend who was a specialist in the law of the country. [16] Mr. Brull concluded by saying that the Legal Adviser was essential for present-day dealings. -Rela- tions between States, whether “factual” or “fune- tional”, were always based on law. Even from the philosophical angle, Rousseau considered that society was based on a tacit legal contract. [17] The CHAIRMAN explained that, while he was not questioning the value of a small legal service, he considered the proposed expenditure excessive. [18] Miss LAISE (United States of America) con- sidered that the payment of fees was unavoidable and that the permanent staff should therefore be as small as possible. r[19] Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser), acknowledging the pertinence of the last two questions, which were inter-related, replied first to the Chairman. The | question of cultural agreements was a programme | activity—the only one with which the Legal Affairs Unit dealt under a General Conference resolution. ( In 1946, the Conference had requested the Legal | Service to draw up a standard convention; it had subsequently realized that that was impossible, and | had recommended the assembly of information, in the form of an analysis of existing texts, and the | publication of a volume comprising all the conven- tions in force. That was, in any case, only a ( continuation of the work begun by the former In- } ternational Institute of Intellectual Co-operation. | Two hundred conventions had been pubished, for | submission to the current Conference. An analysis of ( their provisions showed how any given problem might vary, according to the particular legal system | involved (exchange and linguistic problems, etc.), and call for different solutions in different cases. | [20] Mr. Saba explained that, although a member | of the Legal Affairs Unit was almost uninterruptedly engaged on the question, it had been necessary in the | previous year to seek the services of a professor, and | part of the $1,500 requested for fees would allow for ( recourse to such services again during the current ( year. [21] Replying to the Yugoslav delegate, who had { asked about the use of the balance of the sum requested, Mr. Saba pointed out that the Legal | Affairs Unit could not be conservant with all laws in all countries and was, therefore, occasionally | obliged to call on the services of outside lawyers. (
597 : BUDCET Thus, when the Organization had been planning the establishment of three institutes in Germany, it had had to apply to an English lawyer with wide experi- ence of the very complex question of foundations in Germany. Unlike the Programme Departments, the Legal Affairs Unit could not tell beforehand exactly how a sum of a few hundred dollars would be spent. As the Unit was at the disposal of all, it had to be prepared at any moment to meet the requests of any particular Department,and it was to meet such con- tingencies that it was requesting authorization to set aside a financial reserve. [22] The CHAIRMAN observed that there was clearly no unanimity on the matter and that the Committee would have to report the two divergent opinions to the General Committee. He himself and Miss Laise would wish to reduce expenditure either on fees or on the analyses of cultural conventions. [23] tionable need for the Legal Affairs Unit. He per- sonally considered the funds earmarked for the Unit most reasonable. [24] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) thought that work carried out within Unesco was always more economical than that entrusted to outside quarters. The solution” to the point at issue might be to include in the per- manent Legal Affairs Unit a specialist on inter- national questions who would form part of the staff and receive a monthly salary. Unesco would thus always have at its disposal a legal expert who at any moment could give an authoritative opinion on matters falling within his competence. [25] Mr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) observed that no one who had attended meetings of the various com- mittees, and more particularly of the Executive Board, could fail to realize that a Legal Affairs Unit was essential, not only for the preparation of agree- ments and conventions, but also in order to ensure that the decisions taken were legal. The Executive Board was constantly turning to the Unit, asking questions that required an immediate answer and to which an outside expert, unfamiliar with the work of the Secretariat, could not reply so promptly. Mr. El Diwany's conclusion was that the Legal Affairs Unit, which was always kept busy, could not be dispensed with. [26] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) pointed out that, even with the appointment of one new legal officer, Grade 14, at $6,370 per annum, there was still a saving in that part of the Budget of $3,330, due to the suppression of one of the grade 12 posts and two temporary posts in the Department of Natural Sciences. GOM MIT IT EE = Mr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) stressed the unques-. [33] VIII-16 [27] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) enquired how many officials would be comprised in the Legal Affairs Unit after its reorganization, and was informed by Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) that pro- vision had been made for four legal officers and two secretaries. [28] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) added that one of the secretaries shown under the Legal Affairs Unit was attached to the Appeals Board and contributed nothing to the Legal Service, which could, however, draw on the Secretarial Pool. BUREAU OF THE COMPTROLLER (II.B) (pages 57-63). [29] Mr. MOORE (Australia) said that his Govern- ment was satisfied with the working of the Bureau. [30] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) congra- tulated Mr. Harper-Smith on having brought order out of chaos, but wished to know whether periodical reviews were undertaken to ensure that excessive amounts were not being spent on financial control. [31] Miss LAISE (United States of America) asked whether the Bureau also controlled the Technical Assistance funds administered by Unesco. [32] Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) replied that the Director-General had recently carried out a review of his Bureau’s control functions and that some changes had been made early in the current year. He wished to point out, however, that any slackening of controls involved extra work for the external auditors, who were at the moment satisfied with no more than test checks. The Bureau administered Technical As- sistance funds, but for that work there were provided two posts which did not appear in the part of the Budget under consideration. [34] In reply to Mr. KIRPAL (India), Mr. Harper- Smith explained that his Bureau drew up a system of accounts for the financial officers of all field and regional offices, and that those officers submitted their accounts to the Bureau monthly. They were then examined to see that they were correct, and the money spent was passed into Unesco’s general account. [35] In reply to Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) Mr. Harper-Smith added that, while the Department responsible for field offices certified the accounts before transmitting them to the Comp- troller, it had no financial competence. MANAGEMENT (П.С)BUREAU OF PERSONNEL AND (pages 64-69). [36] Mr. GUIGNOLET(France) concluded, from a comparison of the posts for 1951 and 1952, that many promotions to higher grades had been made and      VIII-16 that the number of officials in Grades 8 and above had considerably increased, while the number of those in Grades 7 and below had decreased pro- portionately. That process created the impression that there was a desire to avoid applying the local salary scales to a certain number of staff members. [37] Mr. KIRPAL (India) wished to know the reason for the increases in temporary posts and in travel on official business. [38] Mr. GIELGUD (Head, Bureau of Personnel and Management) explained that the ratio of posts over Grade 8 to those under Grade 8 had been affected by the dissolution of the Housing Service and the transfer of the former Bureau of the Budget to his Service. He hoped that fewer temporary posts would be required than those shown in the Estimates. One of the officers shown was required for work resulting from Unesco’s participation in the Joint Staff Pension Scheme; progress had been satisfactory and that officer would probably not be required for the whole of the following year. [39] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France), stating his point more specifically, observed that :
(1) a number of promotions had been made in the Bureau of Personnel (7952: 2 Grade 16 and
(2) as for the Organization’s staff as a whole, in 7951 there had been 464 staff members in Grades
1 to 7 inclusive and 377 in Grades 8 and above, whereas in 7952 the corresponding figures were 438 and 408; that change affected the whole staff, and Mr. Guignolet would like an explanation of it. [40] Mr. GIELGUD (Head, Bureau of Personnel and Management) explained that during the previous year all posts to which appointments had been made before the Florence Conference had been frozen pending reclassification. Grades 1 to 7 had been reclassified early in 1951 in the light of the decision to apply local salary scales. Some upgrading had taken place to allow for increased responsibilites. [41] With regard to the Bureau of Personnel, the Organization chart showed the situation at the moment when the former Bureau of the Budget had been absorbed. A review was in progress and Mr. Gielgud hoped shortly to recommend the sup- pression of one Grade 16 post. The other posts would then follow the normal hierarchical order. [42] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) added that the Secre- tariat had obeyed the instructions of the Florence Conference not to reclassify in order to avoid placing certain posts on local salary scales. Only three or four posts had been upgraded from local to inter- national scales, and those purely on merit. COMMITTEE [43] Replying to Sir Frank HARBY (United King- dom), Mr. Hodson added that the upgrading of Heads of Bureaux and Services from Grade 17 to Grade 18 had been decided upon by the Director- General because of the responsibility attaching to those posts. [44] Miss LAISE (United States of America) put forward the general axiom that Unesco’s programme could be no better than the staff who were to put it into effect. If Unesco were to be able to discharge its responsibilities, the staff situation had to be improved. During the past nine months, the turn- over of staff on international rates of pay had been
24 per cent and that of staff on local salaries 22 per cent. That was a situation for which Member States were perhaps largely responsible: annual changes in programme items, failure by Member States to give sufficient assistance in recruiting, and, perhaps, the offer of terms of employment inadequate to attract permanent staff, were all contributory factors. It was most important that the standards set for the staff should be as high as possible, and the best place in which to start raising the standard was clearly the Bureau of Personnel. It was essential that the Bureau of Personnel should be provided with the necessary facilities to evaluate the qualifications of candidates for the various posts. Member States would hesitate to entrust Unesco with additional tasks until the staff problems had been solved. [45] The CHAIRMAN agreed, but considered that it was probably a matter for the Administrative Com- mission. As, however, greater efficiency meant greater economy, the Committee might be asked by the Commission to revert to the point. [46] Mr. GIELGUD (Head, Bureau of Personnel and Management) said that he fully understood the need for a high standard, but wished to point out that that would involve the allocation of more money to his Bureau under the heading of “Travel on Official Business”. It was impossible to make sure that the best candidates were secured unless they were brought to be interviewed. [47] Miss LAISE (United States of America) sought an assurance that, in setting up interviewing missions, Unesco co-operated to the greatest possible extent with the United Nations and the other Spe- cialized Agencies. [48] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) asked the Head of the Bureau of Personnel what the system of recruiting Unesco officials was. He wished to know whether the criterion of fair distribution by nationalities was applied, or whether individual competence only was taken into account. [49] Mr. GIELGUD (Head, Bureau of Personnel
599 at BUDGET and Management) explained that, in the selection of candidates for vacancies, competence took prece- dence over nationality. It was, however, his policy to seek staff in countries that were under-represented or not represented in the Secretariat. [50] Mr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) whole-heartedly endorsed the remarks made by Miss Laise, the United States delegate. The recruitment of Unesco staff might be based, firstly, on the recommendations of Member States and, secondly, on those of National Commissions; the Secretariat seemed to prefer the latter method. Where competence was equal, pref- erence should be given to the candidate whose appointment would ensure the fairest geographical distribution. [51] In reply to Mr. KIRPAL(India), Mr. GIELGUD (Head, Bureau of Personnel and Management) affirmed that there was close liaison between his Bureau and the Department responsible for the Technical Assistance programme in the selection of the experts whose work would come under that programme. [52] Miss LAISE (United States of America) was doubtful whether there was any justification for the retention of temporary posts in the Bureau of Per- sonnel during 1952, seeing that the transfer to local salary scales should be concluded by the end of the year. As a trustee of the Joint Staff Pension Scheme, she was worried to learn that Unesco apparently intended to fulfil its responsibilities through the ser- vices of temporary officers. [63] Mr. GIELGUD (Head, Bureau of Personnel and Management) admitted that the transition to local salary scales would probably be finished before the end of 1952. A reclassification had already been made, but a review of each post would be necessary. That might be achieved by the end of the current year. COMMITTEE VIII-16 [64] When the relevant section of the Budget had been written, the date of Unesco’s adherence to the Pension Scheme had not been known. In fact the Organization had joined the scheme the previous April and the work might therefore be completed earlier than indicated. It was considered that the officer responsible for Unesco’s part in the Pension Scheme might also handle the Staff Medical Benefits Scheme; be would therefore not be classified as a whole-time officer under that heading. [55] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) wished to know whether the Organization and Policy Division served all Departments, and not only the Bureau of Per- sonnel; in the former event, judicious savings could be effected, especially as regarded travel, publica- tions, and the purchase of material. Mr. Guignolet recalled that in 1949 and 1950 electric IBM type- writers, each worth $400, had been purchased but had not always been rationally used; typewriters worth only $160 could have done the same work less expensively. Mr. Guignolet sought an assurance that the Division's responsibilities were to the Organi- zation as a whole, so that savings could be made in the future. [66] Mr. GIELGUD (Head, Bureau of Personnel and Management) agreed that the functions of the Organizations and Methods Officer were most important. He was, of course, available to any unit of the Organization which might wish to consult him. Results, however, could be obtained only by the closest co-operation between heads of Depart- ments and that officer. [57] After further discussion, it was agreed that the Committee should meet again at 3 p.m. and that the CHAIRMAN should endeavour to have the sub- mission of the Committee's Report to the General Conference postponed until Monday, 25 June. The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m.