11-5 PLENARY gation of Haiti. I congratulate you upon the pro- gress you have made today in perfecting the organi- zation of this General Conference. I also congra- tulate our four speakers who have returned to us a small dividend of the four times 15 minutes allotted MEETINGS 72 to them, and feel sure that you will join me in thanking them. As there is no other business, I declare this meeting closed. The meeting rose at 6.50 p.m. FIFTH PLENARY MEETING Wednesday, 20 June 1951, at 10.47 a.m. President: Mr. Pau MonteL (France) CONTENTS Discussion of the Director-General's Report (continuation). Speeches by the delegates of Sweden, Peru, United Kingdom, Israel, United States of America, Australia and Lebanon . : : : : ; ; 72 Discussion of the Director-General's Report (continuation). [1] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] The meeting is open. We shall continue with the discussion of the Director-General's report on the work of the Organization. I call on Mr. Dü- ring, Head of the Swedish delegation, and ask him to come to the rostrum. [2] Mr. Ingemar DÚRING (Sweden) — Mr. Presi- dent, ladies and gentlemen, I think that all who have studied the clear and concise report of our dis- tinguished Director-General will agree that it is an excellent document, enabling us to form a fairly realistic opinion of Unesco's activities during the past year, and I wish to join earlier speakers in con- gratulating the Director-General and his staff. [3] I find myself today in a rather difficult position. Personally, and as a humble collaborator in Unesco’s activities for some years, I am well aware that the Organization is now on the right road towards con- centration on essential activities, and I should have liked to dwell on some quite positive aspects of the work of this Organization and on the considerable progress it has made in various respects. [4] However, Unesco is an organization of govern- ments, and my duty here is to express the reactions of my Government. I am afraid that I must report that the attitude towards Unesco in my country, particularly in parliamentary circles, is still rather sceptical and critical. It is felt that there are still too many who like to maintain the illusion that Unesco is the one organization for the promotion of education, science and culture in this world, and that government officials, members of parliaments, scientists and educators, not to speak of the man in the street, all look upon Unesco as something in the nature of the hope of the world. During the past
50 years, very extensive international collaboration in the fields of education, science and culture, have been developed in many countries, mostly through private initiative and encouraged and gradually more and more subsidized by grants from organizations and governments. In these countries, cultural life has long been organized in such a way that channels are already provided for practically every kind of activity in Unesco’s special fields. This, in fact, is the background to the critical and sceptical attitude towards Unesco, as a newcomer in the field, and the primary reason why, in some countries, it is felt that Unesco sets too wide a scope for its activities, and tries to include in its programme a number of projects which in themselves might be useful and desirable, although not very urgent in the present world situation, projects which could as well be left to private initiative. [6] A very good definition of Unesco, first for- mulated by Sir John Maud, if my memory is right, is “a network of mutual services”. This definition comes very close to the conception of Unesco’s objectives that our distinguished Director-General expressed in his lucid and eloquent address yesterday, and I really think that it would be very much to m m . A E E S У  wil wi sp! pr! of [7 thi no is th wd pr ap in ar or in ex is or} ard a in th frd sid Md tu Af] G m wd so   ا  ح ص E S B E m y ‏ ا ت ا ا ا ل ا ل ل ك
73 PLEN KRS the advantage of Unesco if we piped down a little and did not always talk about Unesco in capital letters. [6] My second point is this: as all of us know, Unesco’s programme is, to a large extent, a pro- gramme of long-term objectives. Unfortunately, however, there was a tendency, particularly during the first years of Unesco’s existence, to promise far too much, to arouse among the general public a feeling that spectacular triumphs were just round the corner. To more realistic minds there seemed to be too much of a Utopian character about Unesco’s pro- gramme and it was often easy to see the gulf between the highsounding promises and the results achieved, which so far have been rather meagre and, moreover, sometimes known only to small groups of specialists. The report before us and the programme and work plans for 1952 prove that considerable efforts have been made to cut down the number of resolutions and projects, and my Government is very satisfied with this policy and would like to be assured that it will be continued. In our opinion, it is better to spend much money on a small number of essential projects than to spread the money out over all kinds of projects. [7] This leads me to my third point, a remark on the way in which projects are initiated. As it is now, we often find the following procedure. A plan is discussed and developed in some Department of the Secretariat, concerning some kind of research work on a certain problem, or some kind of mission to a Member State, or an expert meeting, and so on. A work plan with rough budget estimates is then presented to the General Conference and eventually approved and adopted. My particular point is that in many instances of this kind no requests whatsoever are received from any quarter, whether government or organization, for assistance in solving the problem in question. This means, briefly, that with projects of this kind, the starting point for the activity and expenditure, which is sometimes very considerable, is not a request from a Member State or a group of organizations or individuals in various countries who are really faced with and perhaps struggling with, a problem, but the plan is conceived and developed in one of the offices of Unesco House. In the opinion of my Government, the normal procedure should be the exact opposite, that is to say, we ought to proceed from the problems in the world of reality to a discus- sion of possible ways and means of solving them. Member States and organizations have ample oppor- tunity to submit their problems and claims to Unesco. After being studied in the Secretariat, problems of high priority could be selected and submitted to the General Conference as programme projects. This method of embarking upon a programme project would ensure that governments and delegates know from the outset that the problem it is proposed to solve is really felt as a problem somewhere in the MEETINGS 11-5 world, and that the Secretariat has received requests for assistance from the competent quarters. [8] I have limited myself to three remarks of a very general nature, and would like to add a few words on those activities which in my country are considered to be the most essential in Unesco’s pro- gramme. We believe that there are, broadly speaking, three such activities: support to international col- laboration in science, education and culture, technical assistance to Member States, and the spread of information about the work of the United Nations and the whole system of Specialized Agencies. The first is a direct continuation, on a larger scale, of the work of the Institute of Intellectual Co-operation. It is, if we look far ahead, an extremely valuable institu- tion for uplifting the peoples of the world, and we feel in my country that Unesco has really done much in this direction and we wish to give it our full support in pursuing these activities, particularly its aid to the international non-governmental organi- zations. We are also convinced that assistance to Member States at their request and participation in the expanded programme of technical assistance are among Unesco’s most urgent tasks. Like Mr. Trygve Lie, in his address to this Conference yesterday, we believe that we are here on the threshold of a new phase in relationships between the peoples of the world, a policy of real co-operation and mutual assistance for the people and through the people. Allow me also to add that, so far as my country is concerned, it seems easier to raise money for tech- nical aid of this kind with a definite purpose than to raise money to increase the regular budget of Unesco. The third activity, the dissemination of information about the work of the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies, through the media of mass communication, is, needless to say, an impor- tant contribution to peace, and entirely within Unesco’s objectives. [9] In conclusion, I should like to add that my Government is not quite reassured that Unesco has passed beyond the experimental stage. Adminis- trative, economic and political difficulties of all kinds bar the way to rapid progress and we appreciate the Director-General’s frank remarks on this point. Although there is general satisfaction with the pro- gress in methods of selecting priorities and in administration, we feel that still more can be done within the framework of the present budget to ensure that the money contributed by Member States is spent in the most effective way. [10] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, culture has always grown and flourished near the great cross- roads, for culture is always a result of give-and-take. We are today assembled here in one of the most important cross-roads of our time—in the Athens of the modern world. Incidentally, we may remind ourselves that all countries were once under-developed areas, and that it is by means of mutual relationships,     IT-5 PILES AR Y sometimes friendly, sometimes hostile, that we have fought our way to better conditions. A few years ago the peoples of the world created the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies as instruments for co-operation and for securing peace and raising living standards. We cling to the hope that col- laboration between the peoples of the world within the framework of the United Nations will contribute to allay tension and to improve international under- standing. We are supporting Unesco, and taking part in its work because we feel very strongly the value of the intellectual and moral solidarity of mankind. [11] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] I thank the Head of the Swedish delegation and call on Mr. García Calderón, Head of the Peruvian delegation. [12] Mr. Ventura GARCÍA CALDERÓN (Peru) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, Mr. Director-General, gentlemen, on behalf of the delegation and Government of Peru, I have the honour to pay you a warm tribute for the work carried out since last year, when we were received with such outstanding hospitality by the City of the Red Lily. President Odria, who is concerned with all welfare activities in my country, wished to extend its relations with Unesco, in the first place, by the wise appointment of additional delegates. Our very real desire to co-operate with Unesco was clearly demonstrated early last year by the appointment of a second delegate, Mr. Albert Jochamowitz, formerly Minister for Public Works and a well-known art critic, and of Dr. Roaul Miró Quesada, the eminent diplomat and journalist who has been closely associated with El Comercio, the oldest newspaper in Latin America. A co-ordinating committee, the only instrument still needed, has also been set up, it consists of many of our country’s leading men, including the Rector of the University, and is presided over by Colonel Mendoza, Minister for Education, with whose outstanding work, inde- fatigable energy and cultural achievements, redound- ing to the honour of my country, you are all familiar. Lastly, Peru and Unesco have just signed an agree- ment under which two experts, who have already been appointed, will proceed to Cuzco, the city partly destroyed by the earthquake, to help restore to life the archaeological capital of the New World. [13] As you see, gentlemen, while Unesco has been gaining fresh impetus and widening its field of action by the admission of many new members since April 1950, we have been responding to your call. Wehere have no need to justify the use of Spanish as the third official language—the proposal that was so keenly debated last year and finally adopted thanks to the efforts of the delegations of Venezuela and Peru. If I revert to the subject, it is to state my conviction that Unesco seems to have been created
74MEETINGS for Latin America and vice-versa. The old countries which have joined Unesco were often handicapped by their past, which stood in the way of their efforts to bring about a better understanding of equality, and blunted their desire for culture. But ours were new countries. [14] Our colonies, which owe their existence to a civil war with Spain, were resolved to make a clean sweep of the past; they had, if T may say so, been retarded in their progress and felt an impelling need to understand other men, to smooth out the dif- ferences between races and to found that religion of human brotherhood which, coming from France where it had recently been conceived in the mind of a positivist, was to have such far-reaching repercussions in our country. Weadopted the Rights of Man without finding differences in colour any bar to brotherly understanding. In Spanish, the tongue today spoken by millions of civilized human beings in every part of the world, we sang of freedom un- restrained; before Lamartine, our poets wrote for the people, giving them a glimpse of a future which then seemed utopian—a future where man would cease to be the enemy of man. 1 hardly need to say, gentlemen, that for a very long time we were not taken seriously. It was not without misgivings that stern men, who had not read Whitman, viewed the crowd’s triumphant ascent towards knowledge—the most amazing feature of our times. [15] Though we admire Unesco’s high ambition of embracing every branch of human knowledge, we feel that one of the tasks of this Conference will be to decide which are the cardinal aims on which our efforts should be concentrated. Unesco’s outstanding successes in such fields as fundamental education have outstripped its studies of that universalism which is our essential justification. For instance, have we defined the present implications of that splendid, yet vague term—culture? To do this, we should need a world congress of races such as that which, I remember, was held in London in 1911, when so many of the leading men of the day together summed up the major problems of mankind. Our need for a catechism of culture is more than ever pressing now that Asia is shaking off its centuries of inertia, Africa is becoming aware of its destiny, and Latin America is on the way to attain- ing full economic and social stature—now, in short, that the five continents are aspiring and groping their way towards that concept of the oneness of man, described by Dr. Hindou Brapendranath Seal at the London Congress. [16] Every people has its destiny mapped out, its past and present civilization moulding its future; to understand one another, it should be the foremost concern of us all first to draw closer together and then to give our often divergent aims a single direc- tion. Fundamental education is—or should be— matched by a fundamental culture common to all peoples of the world. Have we reached agreement m m = = e = —— w m | ب (
75 PLENARY upon the principles that hold true for the East, the West, and the New World? To be quite frank, I do not think we have. Admittedly, the task is an overwhelming one. This declaration of the rights and duties of universal man, to which every country of the world would make its contribution, seems to be of paramount importance if we are to achieve Unesco’s permanent goal of reconciling all peoples and redeeming mankind through knowledge and understanding. [17] In my opinion it is still too soon for Unesco to be preparing the history of the world on which it is engaged, for certain continents, like Asia and Africa, which are now in the throes of social change, are not in a position to pass dispassionate judgment on their colonial past. Nevertheless, gentlemen, I hope that in addition to its excellent biographies of great men, Unesco will publish monographs on each of our countries to give us all a better knowledge of the others and at the same time to correct the false impressions that foreign historians have given of our past; they would be concise accounts of present living conditions in each country and of its cultural possibilities. [18] With a few outstanding exceptions, we are misunderstood by the Old World, the centre of intellectual and cultural life: It was not always the fault “of that small peninsular annex of Asia”, as a German professor described Europe in 1911, long before Paul Valéry. Religious rivalries or the lust for conquest, combined with the prejudice that the white man belongs to a superior race, have meant that European historians related our past with an astounding contempt for the truth. Fortunately, our generation has rectified matters and shed the pre- judices imbibed at school. Thus, we have restored to Spain its role as a great civilizing force, a people whose wealth aroused envy and whose pride inspired hostility. Unesco, directed as it is by a Latin Amer- ican, whose talent and self-dedication we all admire, could carry out splendid work in this direction. [19] A few vital truths must be borne in mind; that the greatest Latin city after Paris is not in Europe but is Buenos Aires; and that we are supplying the Old World with huge quantities of raw materials vital to its existence—meat, coffee, sugar, cotton, and I might add oil as well. This truly amazing development has taken place in less than a century and a half. What spirit and civilizing power there is in these mixed races that shallow bigotry imagined to have been debased by intermarriage and weakened by the tropical heat. Out of 52 Member States, 16 of us from the Latin American countries bring with us faith, enthusiasm and a steadfast belief in our destiny, which has been to form, from a blend of races, a new man untainted by the bigotry of the past. Gentlemen, our greatest poet Ruben Dario, as he sang of Argentina, described for all time that Latin America waiting, open-armed, to welcome the suffering races, all the outcasts of the world who MEETINGS 11-5 have shaped for themselves a new life under new skies. [20] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] I thank Mr. García Calderón and call on Mr. Hardman, Head of the United Kingdom dele- gation. [21] Mr. David HARDMAN (United Kingdom) — Mr. President, fellow-delegates, I want first of all to join in the tributes that have already been paid to the great importance of Unesco, to join in paying a tribute to the growth and success of the Organization, to join particularly in thanking the Director-General for his speech yesterday which, in my opinion, was one of the greatest of his career, and to thank the Secretariat for its untiring efforts, and also the mem- bers of the Executive Board. And in all these tributes, one naturally associates oneself with the words of Count Jacini. All speakers at this meeting of Unesco are limited by time and I am therefore going to plunge right away into the subject of my speech. [22] Alfred Whitehead once remarked: “Every major advance in civilization all but wrecks the society in which it takes place.” And this is no academic truism. There are many countries in the world today, countries with an age-old culture of their own, which are suffering severe strains and maladjust- ments because of their need to fit into the pattern of their own cultures an element alien to it, the tech- nological culture of the Atlantic countries. Every society into which that element has been introduced has “undergone radical change. The society of Western Europe, in the century following the Industrial Revolution, changed almost beyond re- cognition. Old forms and patterns of thought and behaviour were swept away. New ones have hardly come to take their place. But at least in Western Europe, fellow-delegates, the new element grew slowly and the process of adjustment was gradual. Western societies began to realize that mankind was confronted with a tremendous problem and began to grope towards solutions to it. [23] What are these solutions, by means of which men in the Western countries have sought to make technology their servant instead of their master? One of them is education, that is, a high level of general public knowledge; another is a wide diffusion of technical skill, so that even the schoolboy knows something of the workings of our machine-age culture; another is the gradual development of social institutions, the trade union, the professional associa- tion and so on, which have enabled men and women, cut off by industrialization from many of their old roots, to find a new kind of fellowship with one another, and thus to preserve and develop their individual personality. What of the societies where this technology, which originated in the West, has
11-5 PLENARY been introduced as an alien element? Such a society has none of the antidotes of which I have just spoken and, unless it develops them deliberately, the result may be a breakdown of the culture of that society. Until recently, this process, the infiltration of tech- nological civilization into countries hitherto under- developed, has usually been slow and sporadic. But the process has been vastly speeded up in recent years. And it is bound to growfaster still. The fact is that technology, for all its perils, has the power to increase wealth, to provide food for starving populations, and in the end to reduce and perhaps abolish social inequality. This is a process that no sane man would wish to stop. Nor can it be stopped. It is a world movement which historians of the future, looking back, will discern as the dominant feature of the age in which we live. This, surely, is a challenge and an opportunity for the more highly-developed, coun- tries. And to some extent we see them meeting that challenge. Economic and technical assistance is being given to under-developed countries on a more systematic scale than ever before. Such schemes as the United States Point Four programme, the Colombo Plan, the United Nations Technical Assistance Plan speak . for themselves. And the United Nations has currently under consideration the preparation of plans for the financing of economic development of under-developed countries on a much larger scale. [24] All this, fellow-delegates, is vastly encourag- ing. It is also, for the student of society who has watched the disruptive effect of the introduction of technological civilization into societies whose cul- tures are built on quite a different pattern, vastly disturbing. A greater and more rapid spread of technology might merely mean a greater and more rapid disintegration of existing societies. Is there not a need to nurture and develop in under-developed societies (where a mechanistic culture is developing) new social forms, new institutions, newskills which will enable them safely to take advantage of tech- nology’s gifts? No people must be forced to sell its soul for purely economic and material gain. [25] By all means let the United Nations evolve a bold and challenging plan of economic development: but Unesco must grapple with the widertask of social salvation. Indeed, it is one of the chief tasks on which Unesco has been engaged since its foundation. [26] It would be merely confusing for me to remind you that Unesco is in fact contributing to the United Nations Technical Assistance Programme. I am not alluding here to Unesco’s part in that programme. Nor am I referring to the studies of the effects of industrialization in under-developed countries, which have been undertaken by the Social Science Depart- ment of this Organization. I am rather referring to the total programme of Unesco. Every time Unesco sends an educational mission to a country at its request, every time a regional seminar is organized, every time a demonstration project, in fundamental MEETINGS education or library services, is set on foot, every time a field science co-operation office is opened— through all these activities, Unesco is helping the less developed countries to develop new social forms and to achieve a gradual and, so far as may be, painless transition to a new form of society which will embrace the new element, technology, without sacrificing the culture of the past. All the activities in the regular programme of Unesco can, and should be, related to this great global movement. It is right that this should be so, for this great readjust- ment of culture is the predominant feature of our time. It will happen whether we like it or not. It is our job to make it a triumphfor humanity and not a disaster. [27] What about the activities of Unesco in the more highly developed countries? The problem re- mains the same. For, to begin with, technological civilization is still a menace to the highly-developed countries. It has not been fully mastered even by them, and to that extent the problems facing highly developed countries are the same in principle, though different in degree and content, as those facing under-developed countries. Secondly, what we are seeing today is expansion. Certain elements in edu- cation, science and culture, which the highly developed countries have found efficacious in master- ing and taming technology, are being spread as quickly as possible to the other countries that need them. But it must be expansion, not dilution. Standards must be kept up, untiring research must go on. It would be fatal if expansion were accom- panied by retrogression. The task for the developed countries is a most difficult one, the most difficult they have ever had to face in their histories. Subject to strains themselves, they must yet spare some of the best minds, they must divert their own resources to the job of helping the countries that need help. This is a call they cannot ignore: but it is a call to rise above themselves. It is here that Unesco can help make their task more easy. In this con- nexion I must refer to a proposal which my dele- gation has put forward for instituting a status of Associate Membership for Non-Self-Governing Ter- ritories. Our intention is that these territories should be able, if they so wish, to participate directly in the great social experiment we call Unesco. Unesco’s chief end today, I repeat, should be to play a part in this world-developing movement by which tech- nology is being spread to every country. The part it has to play is to modify social conditions in the less developed countries so that technology may come as a blessing and not as an evil, and at the same time to ensure that the developed countries are able to continue to play their part, to maintain and increase their own social health, so that they may continue to help others. [28] T hope it will be clear from what I have said that in the United Kingdom we place a very high value indeed on Unesco. It has an indispensable part      Ч a 77 PENA to play in shaping history. At the same time, it is one instrument in an orchestra—it is not playing solo. The United Kingdom is already making a solid contribution to the reduction of social inequality all over the world. Its contributions to the United Nations and to the Colombo Plan, its efforts to improve living standards in the non-self-governing territories—these are all matters of common know- ledge, and on record. Unesco must take its place in this list of agencies. Unesco’s work is vital, but to all of us it represents one among many calls. [29] Lastly, fellow-delegates, let me call your attention to the great and imaginative project which the Executive Board has presented to us in the field of fundamental education. This project accords well with the role which, in the view of my Government and National Commission, Unesco ought to assume. My delegation will support this project in principle, subject to a careful examination of the detailed opera- tion of the proposed centres. All I wish to do here is to state one reservation. This relates to the stages by which the plan is brought into operation. Frankly, the admittedly empirical minds of my countrymen would be somewhat appalled by the idea of a cut-and-dried plan of this sort being adopted from the outset in its entirety. Conditions in the various regions of the world vary enormously, even though their problems are superficially the same. In each region, the case for establishing a centre, and the question of the nature of that centre, must be examined afresh on their merits. The Government of the United Kingdom has some experience in these matters and my delegation will therefore propose a frankly piecemeal approach and will suggest, in particular, a period of further study in 1952, during which the elements of this plan will be examined closely and in detail. [30] Fellow-delegates, social change has always been inexorable. Now we proceed at a frightening speed. If Unesco can prevail and make the process a fruitful and uplifting one instead of a harsh economic readjustment, it will, in the view of the United King- dom, have fulfilled its purpose in the world today. That is how we interpret the words of the Constitu- tion, whereit is stated that the purpose of the Organi- zation is to advance, through the educational, scientific and cultural relations of the peoples of the world, the objectives of international peace and of the common welfare of mankind for which the United Nations Organization itself was established. Unesco can make its greatest contribution to peace by concentrating its efforts upon the common wel- fare of all mankind. [31] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] 1 thank the Head of the United Kingdom delegation and call on Mr. Fischer, Head of the Israeli delegation. [32] Mr. FISCHER (Israel) — [Translation from MEETINGS 11-5 the French] Mr. President, fellow-delegates, the Director-General’s masterly report on Unesco’s activi- ties has been read with all the closer attention by my delegation, as Unesco, at the international level, has been grappling with the same problems as have con- fronted our young State in a particularly acute form. My delegation feels that by briefly describing these problems and the efforts made to resolve them, it will be best expressing its admiration for Unesco’s work and its hopes of receiving the Organization’s sympathy and assistance. [33] It is only right that, in the name Unesco has been given, the word Education comes before Science and Culture. Thanks to the Director-General’s experience and faith, results have been achieved in the field of education that we, from our experience, consider to be of cardinal importance. The fore- runner of a series of fundamental education centres was warmly welcomed by our educationists, who, in two years, have had the number of their pupils increased from 100,000 to 300,000. Our country, whose population has, in three years, been doubled by the influx of refugees, has had to give a home to
150,000 children and provide, for those between five and 14 years of age, the free compulsory education prescribed by the law enacted two years ago. The application of this law has meant that attendance at schools for Arab children has increased from 15,000 to 30,000. Tremendous difficulties of every descrip- tion arise in connexion with the refugee children and adults accounting for practically all the 600,000 im- migrants who have entered the country over the past three years. Children of every age must begin or resume their education from the bottom of the scale; à large number of adults must be made literate; all require cultural readjustment, the complexity -of which may be grasped from the fact that Hebrew has to take the place of some 60 idioms, since the refugees come from widely varying countries and social backgrounds. In the reception and adjustment camps, the first buildings constructed are the school for children and the cultural centre for adults. The latter arranges study courses, lectures and dramatic performances. In the 500 new localities that have received immigrants in the past three years, none is without its school and kindergarten. The budgetary difficulties involved in this tremendous effort are lessened, if not solved, by the extreme austerity im- posed upon the entire population. We are endeavour- ing to cope with the problem of teachers—the alarm- ing magnitude of which will be realized from the few details related—by reducing the staff in the older schools so as to distribute teachers among all alike. The training of new teachers to keep pace with present needs necessitates the adoption of methods with quick returns such as the establishment of makeshift training centres which teachers attend for one or two terms. [34] TI need hardly stress that the educational work we are carrying out is possible only through the     PL'E°NARY existence of an intellectual elite, the continued development of which is our constant concern, for on it depends the material and spiritual future of all who have found a home in our country. To attain this aim, we would need to provide a university edu- cation for 10,000 students. As it is, we have only
4,500, of whom 1,500 are studying abroad. The latter figure is limited by the amount of foreign currency available to us. Of the 3,000 students in our country,
1,000 are studying at the Technological Institute at Haifa and 2,000 at the University of Jerusalem. These 2,000 students, and the university staff, are working under conditions uncertain in the extreme: makeshift premises, with no—or poorly equipped— laboratories and no libraries. Such conditions are a bar to any really profitable study and scientific research by teachers, so essential in developing a country, and to the admission of the many young people eager for knowledge, including the 500 re- fugee students who have had to interrupt their studies. Nevertheless there is an excellently equipped university in Jerusalem, which, in addition to lecture and class rooms, comprises scientific research labo- ratories, an admirable library, and a hospital which was the leading medical centre in the Middle East. Its proximity is essential for a Faculty of Medicine, whose development is bound to affect the future of an entire people. In soliciting Unesco’s moral sup- port for ensuring that the doors of universities shall no longer be closed to students of our country, my delegation has no wish to enter upon any political controversy, which is naturally abhorrent to Unesco. Since the University of Mount Scopus is not used by Jordan, and this Kingdom, in the armistice agree- ment, confirmed its support of the principle of allow- ing the cultural and humanitarian institutions of Mount Scopus to resume their normal activities and to guarantee free admission, we feel justified in appealing to Unesco to give its moral support to a claim that cannot be regarded as political, since its intent .is unquestionably cultural and humanitarian. [35] Fellow-delegates, to sum up, my delegation believes that the tasks confronting our young State are such that we may look to Unesco to aid us in fundamental education, adult education, and in ensuring access to our university and material as- sistance to refugee students. Our heartfelt gratitude is due to the Organization, not merely for the help we shall receive in these matters, and in connexion with technical assistance, but also for the example it is setting us. On the other hand, we believe that our endeavours in the field of education, with their greatness and their inevitable shortcomings, con- stitute an important and useful experience, which experts from all Member States would do well to study at first hand. The task we have shouldered testifies to our belief that education can allay social tension and enable every citizen to take his rightful place in a democratic society.   MEETINGS 78 [36] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] I thank the Head of the Israeli delegation and call on Mr. Howland Sargeant, Head of the Delegation of the United States of America. [37] Mr. Howland SARGEANT (United States of America) — Mr. President, fellow-delegates, may I thank the General Conference for permitting me, for this morning’s meeting to renounce the role of President of the General Conference, and to address you as a spokesman for the delegation of the United States of America? I am particularly happy thus to be able to speak under the presidency of our dis- tinguished friend from our host-Government of France, and I will thank you, Mr. President, if you will be kind enough to enforce with evenhanded justice and no favouritism, the 15-minute rule on this speaker, as he has been attempting to do at the request of the General Committee. [38] One year ago today I left Paris on my way back to the United States after the conclusion of the Fifth Session of the General Conference of Unesco in Flor- ence. I am happy to meet here in France many of you with whom I have worked before. I have already met others whom I have known perhaps by name or by reputation as workers in the great cause of Unesco, and I hope to know all of you before we adjourn session here in this great cultural centre of our civilization. [39] I have a few remarks to make on the truly magnificent report presented to us by the Chairman of our Executive Board and in the noble and eloquent words of our Director-General. My delegation be- lieves, and here my roles as President of the Gen- eral Conference and as Head of the American dele- gation precisely coincide, that these reports have reached a new level of perfection. We find them indeed inspiring as the basis of our work during this session. [40] We believe that Unesco as an institution is now firmly established. We believe further that with that milestone now behind us, our next milestone must be to see that Unesco is recognized as a vital force in world affairs. Last year, at the Florence Conference, I said to my friends that we, all of us who meet in this General Conference of Unesco, are asked to release those great powers for friendship, for co-operation, and for creativeness, which have been given to the human race. I said at that time—and I said it with the deepest sincerity at my command—that we are compelled to move in that direction, or we move toward death. My dele- gation still believes that that statement holds as we meet here in Paris. We completely support the Director-General’s state- ment that Unesco’s true purpose is to be a directive force, working for the transformation of the world. We do not need to be great prophets to see that Unesco must now quicken its pace. We must see         E N E E — — ] — " — — — ] o — — — — — — ] — — — ] ] — Q F O D — — — — —
79 PLENA EE that the resources of Unesco, both those that are encompassed within the Organization and those in the Member States, are strengthened and made to work more quickly and more powerfully together. We have, in Unesco, a powerful instrument for the common good. We have seen that in the course of the past year Unesco has been greatly strengthened by allocations from such sources as the United Nations Technical Assistance Fund. Our job here in Paris is to see that these resources are most effectively distributed so that Unesco’s great possibi- lities can be fully developed. [41] TI should now like to reassure all my friends on one -point: the American delegation does not come to Paris with some great, new architectural blueprint to provide a new programme for Unesco— far from it. The proposals of my delegation at this Conference, which are based on a year’s study by the United States National Commission, will be relatively few, 1 think perhaps 8 or 10. They will be based squarely on the concept of the 10 main tasks of Unesco, which you will remember became styled as the decalogue and which we adopted at Florence. By the way, I did not notice any reference to these 10 main tasks in the draft programme for
1952, but I think they are reflected in many of the programme proposals. [42] Finally, our proposals will be based on my government’s very strong support of the criteria established by the Economic and Social Council as a means toward greater concentration of the pro- gramme. The United States is prepared to support the separate resolutions of the draft programme for
1952 almost as they stand. We may suggest modify- ing a few in minor details, but we are proposing no major new resolutions. We intend to con- centrate on examining the work plans, because these constitute the means by which the decalogue is, in fact, translated into action. And I can quote a good philosophical source for this position. I quote Jeremy Bentham, who said: “Acts are the test of words”. We shall test words. [43] The central problem, as my delegation sees it, is no longer “What shall Unesco do?”. We think that the central problem is “How shall Unesco carry out with maximum effectiveness what we all know should be done”? The American delegation- still subscribes with the greatest sincerity to a principle that I cited last year when the distinguished Head of the delegation of Yugoslavia, Mr. Ribnikar, said that his country believed it to be Unesco’s true mission to help the many different cultures to develop freely, each in its own way This is the view taken by my government from the very beginning. As I said when I arrived for this session in France, this country which has stood so long as a symbol to the world of respect for individual human rights and for the dignity of man, we believe that tolerance of cultural diversity is an essential principle for inter- MEETINGS TI-5 national systems in which human beings wish to co-operate. [44] Above all, the American delegation looks for- ward to working at this Sixth General Conference, with men and women of good will, and I have found that that is what we have in this Conference. We feel that the General Conference can make the greatest contribution to Unesco’s programme, and increase its tempo, as the times so clearly demand, if we concentrate, at this session, on studying the work plans. Let us examine them, critically but wisely. I should like to feel that what we do in Paris this year can serve, not just for another year, but for a number of years to some, as the focus for all the resources at Unesco’s command, a focus on urgent and primary objectives. Let us advance Unesco’s time-table for concentration. Let us think in terms of the few important things, well-conceived and well-done, as Professor Düring said to us in his remarkable address earlier this morning. Let us set some clear priorities at this General Conference. These can serve as enduring signposts of the true intent and determination of this General Conference. [45] Now let us turn for a moment to the level of activity. The American delegation believes that, with respect to the high priority tasks, not only should we maintain the level reached in 1951, but in some cases, we should raise this level by making savings elsewhere. This may well mean that some long-range projects, which all of us may agree are good in themselves and should ultimately be carried out, will not receive Unesco’s attention in 1952. [46] Our proposals may be summarized in this way. We are interested in having the wisdom and the arts that this civilization possesses shared and extended among us all, in order to improve the atti- tudes and skills that are required for this infant, this emerging world community. Now this is a process of democratic sharing which is noble but exceedingly difficult. My delegation commends Unesco’s programmes for abolishing illiteracy and for improving education at all levels. We heartily support the Director-General’s proposal for a special project in fundamental education. We believe that man’s ability to understand must be developed. We urge an invigoration of Unesco’s work in technical assistance. We believe that education must accom- pany and be an integral part of technical assistance. And I welcome this morning in the eloquent words of David Hardman, Head of the United Kingdom delegation, his clear recognition of some of the problems of the social and cultural impact of such technical assistance. I hope that this General Con- ference will continue to concern itself most closely with this problem which is given a place in the draft programme. Further, we agree heartily with the Director-General’s description of Unesco as, first and foremost, an organ of education for peace under the law. We wish to support those experiments E E
11-5 PLENARY which will develop understanding of and loyalty to the United Nations system described by the distin- . guished Secretary-General of the United Nations as an instrument of collective security and of inter- national co-operation for advancing human rights and improving economic and social conditions. The programme before us gives increased attention to this very important work in the field of human rights. We hope that at this Conference we may further unify the programme for human rights on the basis of long-term development, as we envisaged it at Florence. These are the main goals of the American delegation at this General Conference. But as I have remarked before, we often find, when we come and exchange views with you, our colleagues at this General Conference, that you have many things on your minds that we were not aware of. [47] In many instances, we then wish to modify the tentative positions that we have expressed, and I am sure that this Conference will prove no exception. We are very anxious to know the views of other dele- gations. We are very anxious to seek with you a basis for a common understanding of these goals. In the few days that we have been here we have not made entirely clear the several purposes that we think are fundamental and essential to the success of Unesco. We still believe that Unesco’s Constitu- tion requires the Organization to answer this question: “What does mankind need to know and to understand to help construct the defences of peace in the minds of men?” Again we say that creators in all intellectual and artistic fields must help Unesco answer this question, but all of us are responsible for finding the answer. Unesco must persist in attempting to solve its problem of communication across all boundaries, among many vocations, pro- fessions and disciplines, and with many audiences, large and small. [48] Now I should like to deal quite honestly and openly with one other misconception. The United States does not believe that Unesco should become some kind of a propaganda vehicle. We do not think that it should become the instrument of any single nation, or of any small block of nations. We believe that Unesco should remain clearly an inter- national agency truly dedicated to the attainment of peace and security for all mankind. As a corollary, just as Unesco may not surrender to any single nation or to any small block of nations, neither may Unesco, in our opinion, surrender its own universal principles, nor its concern to defend the integrity of education, science and culture. You heard eloquent words from Professor Piaget yesterday on this very point. There can be no appeasement in Unesco. There can be no surrender of a just cause to make futile and unworthy compromises. Unesco can neither abdicate nor negate nor be neutral towards these living, universal principles of its Constitution. Only if Unesco avoids such sterility can it, in fact, MEETINGS 80 become the positive and vital force that not only its Constitution envisages, and that the world needs, but that we, who are met in this Sixth General Con- ference, are determined it shall become. [49] I hope that this clarifies a misconception that I have found among other delegations. Going on from there, I would like to make it clear that we believe that we can obtain, ultimately, the condition of a world order based on free consent. We believe that Unesco must make its programme an instru- ment powerful enough to have impact and to be understood, not only by the leaders of all nations, but by the hundreds of millions of men, women and young people throughout the world. My delegation in the past has consistently proposed strengthening projects of this kind, and we shall continue to give our support to such proposals. We believe that Unesco, through its programme, and, above all, through the stimulation of National Commissions, and of the programmes carried out in and by the MemberStates, must develop what we call a living sense of the interdependence of all peoples and of the identity of their common interests. I have said that, although Unesco is far from being universally known or understood, there has been much public comment, some of it not very friendly. However, the Organization has survived this ridicule and it must—and 1 hope during this General Conference will—take the serious, the just criticism to heart, as the Director-General remarked in his speech yester- day. Those who expected Unesco, simply because it existed, because 30 nations signed a Constitution somehow to create a condition of universal peace in the world, felt disillusioned because that did not ‘happen. I knowthis is not the case with you, my colleagues, who are loyal and understanding workers in Unesco’s field, but there are many who have felt so. We did pass through this period of disillusion- ment, but are now recovering from it, and there is a sense of new determination which I have already felt reflected in this General Conference. I say to you that the expectation, the disillusionment, and this renewed determination, are all characteristic of the era in which we live. [50] Finally, we believe that Unesco must supply leadership. All of us know that the world is in a great social and cultural ferment. In my country, we are not dismayed by this situation. We under- stand it; we understand it because my country has experienced both revolution and evolution, and we have moved through these phases in the direction of liberty and of human rights. It is very easy to forget that my country has experienced the process of revolution and of civil war, and I hope that we are now progressing by evolution. This is a small, interdependent world which requires big men. We believe that Unesco can help develop these big men. We are met here in Paris to fashion a mechanism which will translate ideas into action, in a world where increasing numbers of people are deluded. e e n I A T E E S т е н е н с Th cris cris fic sol anc say pec Ag fiel mi opi Co: gat the wh vis [51   PLENARYŸ ОМ Ка в II-5 с т е н е с е н е с е н е с н a a e e е н They are deluded by the mistaken belief that this crisis facing the world is, in some way, a military crisis, that in some way the resolution of our dif- ficulties can be met only with the catastrophic solution of the test of arms and tanks and jet planes, and of the whole lethal panoply of modern war. I say that this is a mistaken belief. I say that these people forget that Unesco, among all the Specialized Agencies of international co-operation, deals in the field of ideas, and in the influence of ideas on the minds, attitudes and behaviour of mankind. In our opinion, ideas are far more potent and powerful than bullets. We believe that our task at this General Conference—and it is to this that the American dele- gation in dedicated—is to demonstrate that we have the capacity to strengthen Unesco’s mechanism, which can provide the courage, the hope, and the vision to build a better and peaceful world. [51] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] 1 thank Mr. Sargeant and call on Mr. Mills, Head of the Australian delegation. [62] Mr. R. C. MILLS (Australia) — Mr. Presi- dent, ladies and gentlemen, I should like, on behalf of the Australian Government, and of my colleagues who represent that Government at this Conference, to express to the Director-General our congratulations upon his report on the activities of the Organization and to convey to him and to his staff our appreciation of the work which has been achieved in the period covered by this report. We feel, however, that our appreciation should go beyond this, because we realize, as the Director-General emphasizes, that, while he and his staff in Paris provide a central focus for the Organization, Unesco is, in the Di- rector-General’s own words, “none other than the sum of the joint efforts of its Member States”. We should, therefore, like to express our admiration and appreciation of Unesco’s activities throughout the world. [63] The Director-General's report is a comprehen- sive and detailed one, reflecting the wide range of activities stimulated and made possible by the existence of Unesco. This is neither the time nor the place for a comprehensive and detailed examina- tion of the report, but I should like to deal with certain aspects of this report and particularly with Part I, in which the Director-General “sets out certain vital general considerations. The examina- tion his report makes is a penetrating one, but in many places he is cautious, both in his assessment of the Organization’s achievement and of the impact it has made on Member States and their citizens and in his account of the Secretariat's activities. Those of us who attended the First Session of the General Conference in 1946 in this city will recall that the budget approved at that Conference for activities in
1947 was $6,000,000. The budget on which Unesco is operating this year, a budget of $8,200,000 represents an important increase which is not en- tirely explained by rising costs. To this, of course, must be added funds made available to the Organi- zation from other sources, both governmental and private, donations from private persons and from governments in the form of grants for specific activities (such as those planned in Germany) or for technical assistance purposes, and from internation- al bodies, such as the Organization of American States, which has helped so much with the Funda- mental Education Centre in Mexico. These contri- butions can be measured—at least in terms of money. No one has yet been prepared to assess, even in terms of money, the resources which have been devoted, within each Member State, to the execution of Unesco’s programme and to the achievement of Unesco’s objects. Many of these aclivities in Member States would probably have proceeded without Unesco. Many would never have started without our Organization. All gain direction and point, stimulus and enrichment from our growing realization that, as we workin our own countries, we share this task with many others, in different lands. [54] We share the Director-General's view that the programme of the Organization must increasing- ly become one which will lend itself to execution through the Member States. But we feel that the way to develop this kind of programme may not necessarily be to make heavy demands, which may at present not be met, on Member States, but rather to develop gradually those aspects of the programme which will be carried out within Member States or groups of Member States on their own initiative, guided and assisted whenever appropriate by the Director-General and his staff. We welcome the growth of National Commissions and the develop- ment of the Director-General’s guidance of them. We congratulate the Organization upon the particu- larly successful regional Conference held at Havana, Cuba, at the end of last year and look forward with very great interest to the proposed Conference in South East Asia. [55] We share, too, the Director-General’s appre- hensions lest the tempo of the Secretariat’s work may be so rapid that the machinery of Member States, this newly developed machinery associated with their National Commissions, will be unable to keep the pace set by the Secretariat. We feel that this is a matter which should be fully examined by the Conference, particularly in its consideration of pro- gramme matters. The Australian National Co- operating Bodies and the Secretariat available to them have, we believe, since Unesco was established, devoted themselves, conscientiously to the work. But in the fields of education, science and culture their rate of work, if it is to be effective, must be slow. Progress in these fields must be gradual, although I would emphasize that this does not mean leisurely. We would, therefore, go even beyond the
11-5 RENE Y Director-General and say that, if the Conference considers, “in the interests of the Organization's efficiency, that a change in rhythmis desirable, that change should be decided upon even if it results in a reduced volume of work. We take this view because we consider that it is not the volume of work which counts but rather the volume of effective work. We do not think that the answer to this question is to be found in going beyond the Member States. The only satisfactory solution of the problem, as we see it, lies in the continued development of the active participation of Member States in the execution of the programme. [66] But, even more than either of these, we are impressed by the need for the growth of Unesco to become even more organically sound than it has been hitherto. The National Commissions can only be grafted on to the structure of Unesco by the Secretariat’s patient, and still more patient, in- sistence that everything that can be done through the National Commissions should be done through them. For the Secretariat, even with the best inten- tions of speeding up our work, to neglect the Na- tional Commissions, would be to dry up the life- giving sap which alone can turn our Organization into a single coherent living growth. [57] The Director-General in his general consider- ation of the activities of the Organization has em- phasized the importance of collaboration with specialists of the different countries. In his review of this matter he has dealt with it from two points of view: first, the assistance provided by the Organi- zation to the ordinary activities of international non- governmental organizations which facilitate co- operation between specialists and, second, the participation of these organizations in the execution of Unesco’s programme. [68] The Australian Government takes the view that Unesco's action in facilitating the activities of inter- national organizations of this kind can be very im- portant, but the effectiveness of that action must be dependent on the existence of vigorous international organizations which carry out their own programme and are able to find substantial means for their activi- ties, apart from the subventions they receive from Unesco. While we support the view that Unesco should stimulate, encourage and assist these organi- zations, we do not believe, and we feel sure that the Director-General does not believe, that Unesco should take any action which would result in effecting Unesco domination. The success of organizations of this kind will depend on their own initiative, on their virility and on their independence. We feel that the normal activities of promoting co-operation at an international level between specialists is Unesco’s work, even though this work was being done in a number of fields before Unesco existed. We feel, too, that those organizations should always be in a posi- tion to decide the forms of international co-operation most appropriate to their fields. They must be MEETINGS : 82 independent. On the other hand, we feel there is a grave danger that, if their lifeblood comes from Unesco, their activities may be influenced, con- sciously or unconsciously, by their anticipations of what the Organization would have them do. For this reason, we think that the Organization should be careful that its stimulation is never over-stimula- tion and that facilitation never becomes direction. [59] While Unesco has found it necessary, in order to facilitate international co-operation amongspecial- ists, to promote the foundation of new international organizations, we feel (and we are sure that our view is shared by the Director-General) that this should be done with the greatest caution. Unesco has, dur- ing its operation, taken an active part in such promotion. We feel that it may be wise for the Con- ference to consider the extent to which Unesco’s initiative in these promotional activities should be continued. arrived or will soon arrive for Unesco to wait upon approaches from specialists themselves before under- taking new promotional activities. We feel that the organization must review carefully the necessity for further international organizations before it takes active steps to support their establishment. [60] May I for a moment pause to express out thanks to Unesco for providing funds which enabled several eminent scientists to visit Australia in order to attend last month the Conference of the Australian and New Zealand Association for the Advancement of Science. It was peculiarly appropriate in that it coincided with the celebration in Australia of the first 50 years of Federation. [61] Now for the second aspect of the problem which the Director-General treated. He discussed the participation of international organizations in the execution of Unesco’s programme. This, we consider, is only one way in which the Organization collaborates with the specialists of different coun- tries. The other way—and in a number of matters, in our opinion, the more fruitful way for Unesco to collaborate with specialists is through the National Commissions of their States. While the Director- General points out that the international organizations constitute valuable reserves of experts, they are, in fact, reserves of persons within the Member States, persons who are affiliated with international organi- zations. The Australian Government agrees that for some of Unesco’s activities, and for some of Unesco’s enquiries, international non-governmental organizations may be the appropriate agents. We feel, however, that, since Unesco’s work in the last resort must be done within the Member States, the most fruitful form of collaboration with specialists must inevitably be through the National Commissions. Our view is therefore that, where enquiries may be needed for a world-wide survey, valuable advisory services in the planning of the investigations may be offered by international organi- zations, However, the collection of material within It may be that the time has already, " e e e س ب ‎ с т о с и н ي ح ا ي ‎
83 the can Con orge [62 Men of i asse a cl full Stat tari: org: rem pen whi agai [63 Fre gati gati that for spe: that noo [64 dele [65 [Tr on | inte far My repc wor [66 fellc wor to { thre app real pow this mal Mr. clai affe two con Hov ther den
83 PLENARY the Member States and the tasks of local expertise, can most effectively be undertaken by National Commissions or bodies affiliated to international organizations. [62] We agree with the Director-General that the Member States must form direct links in the chain of international intellectual co-operation. We would assess the matter even more highly. A weak link of a chain can be repaired, restoring the chain to its full former strength. But the essential dependence of Unesco’s central superstructure upon its Member States is more critical than this. Unless the Secre- tariat can integrate the National Commissions organically into our common tasks, Unesco must remain, whatever its vision and its efficiency, sus- pended in mid-air, severed, from the only soil in which it can grow roots to hold it firm and proud against the buffeting of our restless world. [63] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] 1 thank the Head of the Australian dele- gation. Mr. Ribnikar, Head of the Yugoslav dele- gation, is detained in the Credentials Committee, so that we have reached the end of our list of speakers for this morning; if one of the delegates who is to speak this afternoon is willing to take the floor now, that would ease the burden of our work this after- noon. [64] Mr. Charles Daoud Ammoun, of the Lebanese delegation, has agreed to speak this morning. [65] Mr. Charles Daoud AMMOUN (Lebanon) — [Translation from the French] Such generous praise —which has been fully deserved—has been lavished on the Director-General’s report that I am doubtless interpreting his real wishes, if, without going so far as criticism, I at least voice certain reservations. My remarks refer not to what is contained in the report—for on its excellence and the Secretariat’s work I have nothing to add—but to what is omitted. [66] Mr. Director-General, you have, with my fellow-delegates, spoken to us of the threat of a new world conflict and of its portents. Is it not our duty to go further? There are specific causes for this threat of conflict and we should surely endeavour to apply a remedy. The tragedy of our times, the only real problem, is this lurking fear inspired by the power of modern weapons, this paralysing dread, this grim foreboding of the hour when men may make use of the “panoply of modern warfare” that Mr. Sargeant spoke of just now. None of us can claim to be free of this overpowering obsession which affects every act of his daily life. We all know that two ideologies, two ways of thought, two different concepts of man, or two religions, are in conflict. How can we shut our eyes to these realities? Surely, then, our imperative duty is to seek the common denominator, the means of enabling these two ways MEETINGS 11-5 of thought to exist side by side. Without surrender- ing our convictions or denying the ideal of freedom, which is today the banner of a whole world, we at Unesco surely have the imperative duty of extending our spiritual quest and our action to the bounds of the humanly possible and of seeking, by every means in our power, to find the points of contact.. We should have the courage of our convictions, nor must we discount the convictions of others. And, if these two systems cannot be drawn together by bonds of friendship or mutual interest, surely we could con- template dispassionately a fair and honest association in which each party would retain material and spiritual independence. [67] The Head of the American delegation was saying so this morning. The universality of our Organization bids us act, to act before the sorcerer’s apprentice in the tale we learnt as children has let loose this fearful panoply to which Mr. Sargeant referred a moment ago. This panoply is but ‘the reflection of our ideas, of the ideas that impel the world and will continue to impel it towards a better or a worse fate. But is it not our central purpose and our vocation to reconcile, to uphold or to spread these ideas? Of what avail would be fundamental education and our efforts to raise the cultural level of the adults if, tomorrow, fathers and sons were to perish on the same field of battle beneath the ruins of a civilization they cherished so dearly? [68] Even if they werè of no avail, we still have the duty to act. How better can I conclude than by reading to you these few remarks that His Excellency Sheik Bechara El Khoury, President of the Republic of Lebanon, made to this very Organization at the session held in Beirut: There lies your domain, ladies and gentlemen. That is indeed the supreme task that you have taken upon yourselves to accomplish; a task that will tax your efforts to the highest degree. You will, no doubt, experience disappointments and sorrows and many will perhaps recall the words of the evangelist: ‘When ye shall have done all those things which are commanded you, say: we are unprofitable servants’. All your intellectual, spiritual and human efforts may one day clash with the law of force, that ultima ratio regum of old. But you may rest assured that the stakes are worth the effort and that the risk deserves to be run, since these stakes are world peace. [69] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] 1 thank the delegate of the Lebanon. As I think there is no further speaker for the moment, I would remind you that the plenary meeting this afternoon will be held at 3.30 p.m. and that the Procedure Committee will meet in Room 4 at 4 p.m. The meeting rose at 12.21 p.m. E E ج ا ا ح ا ت ت أ ف ا خ ‎ S E E E E E A N S S E E E E E R E N E