365 PROGRAMME COMMISSION IV-14 FOURTEENTH MEETING Wednesday, 4 July 1951, at 10.30 a.m. Chairman: Mr. JEAN PIAGET (Switzerland) Special Project for the Establishment of a World Network of Regional Fundamental Education Centres (documents 6C/PRG/3 and
6C/PRG/29). [1] The CHAIRMAN emphasized the very special importance of the project before the Commission, and introduced Mr. Norris Dodd, Director-General of the Food and Agriculture Organization, and Dr. Brock Chisholm, Director-General of the World Health Organization, who would be addressing the meeting. [2] Mr. DODD (Director-General, Food and Agri- culture Organization) congratulated Unesco on the great and courageous work it was undertaking. He wished to assure the Organization of FAO's full co- operation in the battle against want. He believed that more could be achieved by spending a little money on raising the standard of living and giving hope to the under-privileged millions than by spending fantastic sums on defence. Illiterate people living in poverty and disease were an easy prey for those who were preaching false gods. On the other hand, those who had the advantages of education, decent homes and opportunities of advancement could become the bulwarks of peace. The methods of Unesco and of FAO were different, but their aims were the same. While, for FAO, it was impossible to bring knowledge of new agri- cultural methods and new techniques to people who were unable to read or to think, Unesco believed that it was essential to teach people to read before they could begin to think or to enjoy life. The action of the two agencies was therefore comple- mentary. The task they were about to tackle together was too large for any one organization to undertake alone. The Council of FAO had endorsed to the full Unesco’s plan for the establishment of regional fundamental education centres. It had directed him to give every possible support in the great experiment and to convey FAO’s best wishes for success in the battle about to be engaged. [3] Dr. CHISHOLM (Director-General, World Health Organization) said that, while much research still remained to be done, the basic problem was to fill the gap between existing knowledge and the application of that knowledge. Fundamental edu- cation alone could bring the benefits of experience in other parts of the world to bear upon the daily life of the less fortunate peoples. In the past, foreigners had done much good, but it had repeatedly happened that their departure had been followed by the return of the jungle. The fundamental edu- cation project was the greatest instrument so fai created for enabling backward peoples to apply for themselves the knowledge brought to them by others. The project was a truly international plan estab- lished on a sound basis. The experience which would be gained over a period of time would enable improvements to be made both in content and in method. It was unadvisable for the Specialized Agencies to draw up complete plans in their central offices; the problem was essentially one of local adaptation and application. Their task was to help the peoples sufficiently to change their ways to enable them to take advantage of the knowledge available elsewhere. [4] Unesco had set an example to the other agencies in daily co-operation on such schemes. The World Health Organization would be happy to contribute its scientific advice on the teaching of hygiene and on the development of Member States’ health programmes. It would bring the funda- mental education scheme to the attention of the health authorities in many countries, and would try to persuade them of the necessity of planning sufficiently in advance to take advantage of the project. He wished, in conclusion, to express his personal appreciation of the unstinting support offered by Unesco whenever WHO had requested it. [6] Mrs. JOUHAUX (International Labour Organi- zation) conveyed the regrets of Mr. Morse, Director- General of ILO, who had been prevented from expressing in person his Organization's sympathy with the special project for the creation” of a world network of regional fundamental education centres, a project which most admirably complemented the work of ILO in connexion with labour and the im- provement of the living conditions of the people in overseas territories. The Director-General of ILO was convinced that the project would make an effective contribution to his Organization's pro- gramme, and he would be happy to see it adopted by the Conference, thus giving ILO an opportunity to co-operate with Unesco in the achievement of an ideal which the speaker felt they shared.           IV-14 PROGRAMME [6] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL thanked the re- presentatives of FAO, WHO and ILO for their warm reception of the special project, which was of great importance for Unesco’s future, and which could come to full fruition only through close co-oper- ation on the part of the whole United Nations family. The Director-General pointed out that Unesco had in view not merely simple campaigns against illiteracy, but the raising of the standard of living and the wider understanding of the Organization’s supreme ideal—peace in the world. The first centre had been opened at Patzcuaro(Mexico)on 9 May 1951, and the Director-General had been greatly struck by the schoolteachers’ joy at being able to submit their problems to the FAO, WHO and ILO specialists, whose presence gave a fuller practical significance to the Centre by bringing it out of the strictly edu- cationalfield into that of everyday life. Thanking the representatives of the other Specialized Agencies for the encouragement and assistance given to Unesco, the Director-General was anxious to encourage them, in turn, by quoting the words spoken by a native teacher in his own language at the opening of the Centre: “You have set up a school for peace here”. Unesco’s work and that of the other Specialized Agencies in that field was, as Mr. Trygve Lie had said at the opening of the Conference, focused on peace. [7] Mr. CASTRO LEAL (Mexico) wished to make some comments in presenting the conclusions reached by the Working Party set up by the Pro- gramme Commission to study the special project for a world network of Fundamental Education Centres. [8] The work had gone forward in an atmosphere of keen interest, and it might even be said of enthusiasm. It was to be hoped that all those interested—whether governments, international in- stitutions or private foundations—would welcome the project as generously as it deserved. The Working Party suggested that, if circumstances permitted, the basic project should be modified to suit changed conditions, so as to bring the number of centres to more than six, and to reduce the time for setting them up to less than 12 years. [9] The Working Party had, nevertheless, con- sidered that the general lines of document 6C/PRG/3 should be approved, setting forth the problems of organization and budget connected with the ex- ecution of a task which should be regarded merely as the first stage of the project’s development. Six fundamental education centres represented only the beginning of a large-scale project. [10] The Working Party had, however, tried to find a practical means whereby the project might begin to take form and strike roots in reality. It seemed perfectly right and proper that, in order to establish a network of fundamental education centres, the various extra-budgetary sources of income sug- COMMISSION 366 gested in the Secretariat’s document and in the Ex- ecutive Board’s report should be taken into account (voluntary government contributions, help from international institutions, and gifts from private foundations); but it was not thought desirable that the execution of the project should be held up pending the receipt of such funds. [11] The Working Party therefore proposed, with a view to carrying out the project immediately, that a fudamental education centre should be set up in 1952 with resources drawn from technical as- sistance funds and from Unesco’s own budget. The advantage of that proposal was obvious; in the first place, the continuation of the work so soundly started at Patzcuaro would be assured, and, in the second, evidence of practical achievement would be given on which Unesco’s Director-General would be able to base further requests for contributions from governments and international institutions and gifts from private foundations, for the purpose of com- pleting the special project as a whole. The setting up of a second fundamental education centre, financed out of technical assistance funds and Unesco’s budget, would be a suitable commencement for the implementation of a large-scale project, later to be supplied with ampler resources. [12] Simultaneously with the setting up of the second fundamental education centre, or even earlier, it would be necessary to establish the central Paris organization in Unesco; its functions would, in principle, be those set out in document 6C/PRG/3, but its budget would be smaller during 1952, since it would not yet be carrying out all those functions. In the first year of operation, general co-ordination work and the training of specialists would not yet have reached full expansion. The central organi- zation would have to concentrate mainly on im- proving the preliminary technical and financial arrangements for the project. [13] To sum up, the speaker stated that, in addi- tion to the maintenance of the Patzcuaro Centre, and taking into account the opinions and experience of the Chairman, Vice-Chairman and members of the Budget Committee, it was proposed to launch the special project by setting up a second centre in
1952 and also a central body in Paris, without having recourse, at the initial stage, to the financial resources suggested in the project. [14] The approval of those conclusions by the Budget Committee made it clear that the project could be based solidly on the foundations which had served it in the past—the funds of the Technical Assistance Programme and Unesco’s normal budget. [15] Mr. Castro Leal considered that the campaign for the funds needed for the gradual execution of the project should be launched at the same time. He hoped that the campaign would be successful, and that, on its results, Unesco would be able to deter- mine with greater accuracy the total number of centres which should be set up, as well as the time-   X | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | tabl beer Cen becc [16] a de Serv una! vagu be a of a of li prok effec to tl of à ficie: to n and catic opin clus: [17] the dele: oper and men those offer tion not the « thos Depa [18] sider an o grad well of th in th intro refer amp] perm crite the c [19] tative alrea the F the s main plan [20] its fi a visi who   PROGRAMME table of operations. Once the necessary funds had been obtained for the general project, the Patzcuaro Centre and the centre to be set up in 1952 would become part of it. [16] The Working Party had not wished to go into a detailed study of the question of the area to be served by each individual centre. It had considered unanimously that the term “region” was rather vague and might cause confusion. A region might be a good criterion when its frontiers were also those of a certain culture, that was to say, of related ways of life, and related attitudes and solutions to life’s problems. But the greater the affinities, the more effective would be the work of each centre. Owing to the size of their population and their low stage of development, some states might provide a suf- ficient field of work; it would not, in fact, be difficult to name states who, because of their vast territory and population, would require a fundamental -edu- cation centre all to themselves. The Working Party's opinion on the point was briefly set out in its con- clusions. [17] As manifest proof of the interest shown in the execution of the special project, the Mexican delegate mentioned the offers of support and co- operation made by the Governments of Egypt, Brazil and the Philippines for the establishment of funda- mental education centres in their territories. To those should be added Lebanon, which had made an offer in writing, requesting that it should be men- tioned in the Working Party's report. Since it was not within the latter's competence to decide where the second centre should beset up, it had passed on those generous offers for study by the competent Department. [18] The Working Party had unanimously con- sidered that document 6C/PRG/3 was excellent as an outline of the plan for organizing, financing and gradually developing the project, and that it might well continue to serve for the general presentation of the problem, provided that the opinions contained in the Working Party's report were embodied in the introduction, and possibly elsewhere, with particular reference to the hope that the project might be amplified and more quickly executed if circumstances permitted, and that a broader and more flexible criterion would be adopted for the distribution of the centres. [19] The Working Party had received a represen- tative of the World Health Organization, which was already whole-heartedly co-operating with Unesco at the Patzcuaro Centre. That representative had given the strongest assurances that co-operation would be maintained and extended, as the Working Party's plan was gradually carried out. [20] In conclusion, Mr. Castro Leal said that, at its final meeting, the Working Party had received a visit from a high official of the Ford Foundation, who had expressed great interest in the project. COMMISSION IV-14 That statement had been warmly welcomed, since there was, at the moment, no project which could more generally or profoundly benefit the destitute humanity of our age than the creation of a world network of fundamental education centres; and the funds which generous minds had wanted used for the good of mankind would be excellently employed in the project. [21] In view of the foregoing considerations, Mr. Castro Leal asked, in the name of the Working Party, that the report should be unanimously adopted. [22] The CHAIRMAN asked whether the United States delegation wished its proposal (document
6C/DR/20) to be discussed separately. [23] Mr. BENITEZ (United States of America) said that his delegation had always maintained the highest priority for the special fundamental education project. The Working Party on the scheme under consideration had considered documents presented by the United States Government and had indeed used them as a basis for its general discussions. The United States proposals had thus been embodied in the report of the Working Party; Mr. Benitez would therefore be happy not only to withdraw document 6C/DR/20 but to propose that the report of the Working Party should be accepted. [24] Mgr. MAROUN (Lebanon) thanked the Chair- man of the Working Party for having mentioned the offer made by the Lebanese Government with a viewto facilitating the setting up of a fundamental education centre in his country. As proof of its interest in the execution of the special project, the Lebanese Government was offering Unesco all the buildings prepared in 1948 for the Third Session of the General Conference—all of them former barracks which had ever since borne in Latin and Arab letters the legend “Unesco City”; the United Nations flag had not ceased to fly from those buildings which Unesco’s sojourn had turned into a temple of the spirit. The Lebanese Government, respecting the lofty use once made of the premises, had since reserved them for the Specialized Agencies working in the Middle East, and they would form an ideal headquarters for a regional centre. Mgr. Maroun concluded by expressing the great interest felt by the Lebanese Government in the special project, an interest to which it was anxious to give concrete form by participating in it to the full measure of its capacity. [25] Mr. SAGLAM (Turkey) approved the Working Party's report in principle. Like all Member States, Turkey was keenly interested in the project for setting up regional centres in various parts of the world to train staff and prepare the materials for
1V-14 PROGRAMME fundamental education. It was also particularly interested in the problems of fundamental education, owing to the adoption of the Latin alphabet in 1928, with a view to helping to disseminate education among the masses. In the national schools set up in 1928, 51,816 teachers had by 1935 taught
2,486,845 adult pupils. Travelling courses had been in operation since 1939 for the education of the rural population. Since 1940, 478 “Houses of the People” and 4,322 “Chambers of the People” were teaching elementary agriculture, domestic science and the handling of simple machines. During the past
20 years, the efforts of the Turkish Government to provide fundamental education had had immense results. On the proposal of the Turkish National Commission, new steps had been taken, and the Permanent Fundamental Education Committee had been broadened to include representatives of the interested Ministries—Education, Health, Agricul- ture, National Defence, Justice and Labour—as well as of trade unions, co-operatives and the State Broad- casting Company. To sum up, the problems of fundamental education were being rationally studied in Turkey, so as to broaden and increase the efficacy of the movement begun with the proclamation of the Republic in 1923. While the proportion of illiterates was still 91 per cent in 1927, it had fallen in 24 years to 55 per cent, and was continually diminishing. Mr. Saglam thought that the experi- ment his country had carried out was most useful, and its results and methods deserved attention from all countries concerned with the primordial question of illiteracy. He concluded with a formal declara- tion that Turkey would very gladly receive a Unesco mission to make contacts with the competent Turkish services, with a view to setting up a regional centre, for which Turkey would willingly provide active help. [26] Mrs. PECSON (Philippines) wished the Com- mission to note, as a very special occasion, that the day on which the report on the fundamental edu- cation project was presented coincided with the celebration of American Independence. Patzcuaro was, in some sense, the Philadelphia of the modern world. Only when ignorance had been overcome would the world as a whole be able to enjoy those freedoms to which all were entitled. The relations between the Philippine Republic, which was today celebrating its sixth anniversary, and the United States of America should be an object lesson for members of Unesco. The United States “had been conceived in liberty and dedicated to the proposition that all men were created equal”. The Rights of Man proclaimed in the Declaration of Independence had never been championed more passionately than by Unesco. The General Conference at its Sixth Session, had dedicated itself to the application of knowledge and to the spread of education, that all might be COMMISSION nourished in peace and prosperity. Mrs. Pecson pro- posed that the Commission should approve the report of the Working Party and transmit its con- gratulations to the United States of America on the
175th anniversary of the Declaration of Independence. [27] Mr. MAQUET (Belgium) pointed out that the Working Party had mainly concerned itself with the financial problem, and with how to make the plan flexible enough to meet any modifications that might prove necessary in the course of its execution. The Working Party had left to the Programme Com- mission the task of examining the methods of applying the principles of fundamental education. Mr. Maquet had some comments to make on re- commendation No. 1 of the Working Party's report (document 6C/PRG/29). The Belgian delegation considered that, in the first place, agreement should be reached on what was meant by fundamental education, which was presented in the original project (document 6C/PRG/3) as an activity which would help men, women or children who had not the advantages of formal education to understand the problems of their immediate environment and their rights and obligations, and to participate more effectively in the economic and social progress of their community. The Belgian delegation considered that such an approach left several gaps. It was not enough for adults or children to be enabled to play a more effective part in the progress of the com- munity to which they belonged; their behaviour should also be dignified, and to that end their moral training could not be neglected. The significance of fundamental education would be seriously limited if it did not aim at exercising an influence beyond the immediate environment of those children and adults. That would be in contradiction with Unesco’s objectives, which were concerned with better under- standing between the peoples. While the immediate environment should receive particular attention, the mission the particular community had to fulfil beyond its own confines would appear to be of the utmost importance. It seemed that the Executive Board had itself realized that the concept of fundamental education had been too greatly restricted, since it had decided to introduce an amendment, emphasiz- ing that such education also had to awaken an awareness of the dignity of human beings, and to develop a sense of mankind's cultural and moral solidarity. [28] While entirely supporting those essential principles, the Belgian delegation considered that they would be more appropriately inserted between the first and secónd sentences of the fourth paragraph of the introduction to document 6C/PRG/3 (page 3), rather than following the paragraphs dealing with the methods to be used. Mr. Maquet supposed that such a minor change would not call for the sub- mission of a formal draft amendment.
369 [29] that cha that accd ther! men cult exis [30] greal men repd the ties whi] ther suffi thos The that sho and fun ens dele eac of à terri that of t givi dra gove oblig sho edud who an a wit [31] the d the men   [32] Belg enti havi coul stan strai at t Geng for [33] posa Suc oper   i l s   — ® | ( m m m . E T — — ] ] — — [83]
369 PROGRAMME [29] The Belgian delegation further considered that the second paragraph on page 3 should be changed, since experience had proved only too often that a rise in the material standard of living was accompanied by a drop in the moral standard. He therefore proposed the following text: “It is funda- mental in the sense that it gives the minimum culture which is an essential condition for an existence worthy of human beings.” [30] Lastly, the Belgian delegation placed the greatest emphasis on the important condition mentioned by the Director-General in his annual report, namely that the centres should remain within the framework of the sociological and cultural reali- ties of the region for which they were designed, while obtaining aid from outside sources. Care had, therefore to be taken to avoid any failure to give sufficient attention to the deeper aspirations of those whom it was wished to rescue from ignorance. The Belgian delegation considered it essential, for that reason, that the teaching staff of the centres should be perfectly acquainted with the psychology and aspirations of the peoples who were to receive fundamental education. In order more fully to ensure the success of the regional centres, the Belgian delegation thought that it would be useful to provide each centre with an advisory committee consisting of one or two representatives of each country or territory connected with it. It would be the task of that committee to assist in the successful operation of the centre by simplifying its Director’s work, by giving him any advice he might have to request, by drawing up recommendations, or by approaching governments which might possibly fail in their obligations. So far as possible, the teaching staff should include members chosen among the best educationists of the region served by the centre, who might first spend some time at Unesco or at an already existing centre, so as to become familiar with modern fundamental education methods. [31] The Belgian delegation was most anxious that the drafting committee, which would have to re-word the basic document, should take the warious com- ments just made into account. [32] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL thanked the Belgian delegate for his specific proposals. He was entirely in agreement with him on the first point, having himself emphasized how greatly the project could also serve the cause of international under- standing. The proposed amendment, which went straight to the heart of the matter, might be added at the beginning of the document, but the Director- General asked delegates to refrain from making formal amendments to a document of such length. As to the Belgian delegation’s second pro- posal, it seemed to outrun the existing possibilities. Such advisory committees could not, in fact, be operated on a limited budget. ï COMMISSION IV-14 [34] Mr. Maquet's third proposal was fully in accordance with the whole concept of the project, which aimed at collecting in the centres the greatest possible number of teachers from the interested countries. Quoting the Patzcuaro Centre as an example, where 10 Mexican educationists were work- ing with five foreign teachers, the Director-General pointed out that co-ordination of international, regional and national action was the very basis of the whole project. [35] Mr. SENGHOR (France) accepted the spirit and general trend of the Working Party's report, which raised two questions, the one basic (namely, the reduction of the period envisaged from 12 to
10 years), the other formal (relating to the financ- ing of the plan). As regarded the suggestion that greater flexibility should be given to the idea of a region, Mr. Senghor thought that, while a “region” should be taken to indicate not so much a geogra- phical, as a cultural entity, the idea as such should be retained. [36] On the question of the countries in which centres should be set up, Mr. Senghor would be happy to support the offers made by Egypt, Turkey, Lebanon and the Philippines, but felt that those countries should be incorporated in the regional framework. It would be natural to set up a second centre for Latin America in Brazil, and equally natural to have several centres in the Middle East, but, if certain regions were thus given several centres, it would be less natural for equatorial Africa to have none at all. Mr. Senghor realized that the Governments responsible for the adminis- tration of the non-self governing African territories had secured great advances in education, and that half the children had received schooling during the past 10 years; nevertheless, he believed that a region which had long been neglected deserved special attention from the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies. The French delegation was not, however, making any precise proposal for the setting up of a centre, holding that the various interested Governments should be consulted. [37] The French delegation had certain reserva- tions to make concerning the financing of the pro- ject in 1952 by drawing a sum of $129,370 from Unesco’s normal budget for 1952 for the Latin American Centre, and $105,630 for a new project, making a total of $235,000 in all. As programme activities had already been considerably reduced, the French delegation considered it dangerous to go further in that direction. Since, however, the General Committee of the Conference had that morning proposed that not more than one per cent of the total budget should be diverted to the funda- mental education project, the French delegation was prepared to accept the proposal, but only as an     A E ee 7
17-4 PROGRAMME emergency measure applicable solely to 1952, since any special project should be financed out of special resources. [38] Mr. Senghor recalled the great importance attached by France to fundamental education, and pointed out that the National Assembly had voted funds for two projects, the one to establish a Basic French vocabulary, and the other on the use of vernacular languages in education in certain regions. [39] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL noted that the report as a whole had the Commission’s support. Certain questions, however, which the Working Party had merely touched upon, had to be settled. In making the concept of a “region” more flexible, did the Commission consider that one might even go so far as to set up centres to serve only one country? The Director-General thought that would be a mistake at the stage reached, in dealing with a project which had, all along, been modest and had later been still further reduced. It would be useful to draw up a list of priorities, and the Director- General proposed that preference should be given, in 1952 to the offer most likely to enable the rural nature of the project to be emphasized, taking into account the number of countries to be served by the centre. [40] As regarded the financing of the project, the Director-General agreed with the French delegation’s reservation concerning the continued financing of a special project by resources drawn from the normal budget; such a practice, were it continued, would gravely imperil Unesco. Nevertheless, he shared the view of the Working Party and the United States delegation on the need to put the plan into imme- diate operation, and he believed that that could be done without sacrificing too much of the normal programme. Since Mr. Senghor had alluded to the decision taken by the General Committee of the Conference, the Director-General explained how the problem had been approached. The Programme Commission had succeeded in making cuts amount- ing almost to the nine per cent requested. At the second reading of the programme, it would be necessary to increase those cuts to 11.38 per cent, since the ceiling which had been adopted would not allow the programme to be executed in full as ori- ginally planned. The Secretariat had already pro- posed that the additional sum to be taken from the normal budget for the special Fundamental Edu- cation project should be reduced by $30,000, so that the total to be found had diminished from $105,000 to $75,000. [41] To find that sum, the General Committee had recommended that, if the Working Party’s report were adopted, a cut of not less than 0.86 per cent and not more than one per cent should be made over the whole of the Organization’s budget, the cut COMMISSION 370 2 of the programme. being made under chapters, and not under sections, | [42] Mr. ZURAYK (Syria) expressed his delega- | tion’s whole-hearted support for the principles of i the Fundamental Education project. There was, he | considered, no disagreement between delegations in the fight against ignorance and in the effort to achieve mutual understanding through the spread of education, science and culture. The Syrian | Government was committed by its Constitution to £ abolishing illiteracy within 10 years. The whole resources of the Syrian nation were to be harnessed | to the execution of that task. The establishment of a | fundamental education centre in the region would ١‎ help Syria to carry out its programme within the appointed time-limit. The expert knowledge already acquired by Unesco and by the Member States would be of the greatest assistance to the Syrian people in | their fight against ignorance. In return, Mr. Zurayk { hoped that Syria would be able to share its practical experience with the other members of the Organi- | zation, and that their co-operative efforts would lead | to ever better international understanding. He | therefore moved the immediate adoption of the pro- ject and its execution with the least possible delay. [43] Mr. LHERISSON (Haiti) recalled that the | first fundamental education experiment had been carried out in Haiti, and pointed out that his country ١‎ could not fail to favour a project intended to provide a community with great benefits. Realizing that fundamental education had to have the necessary resources, Mr. Lhérisson proposed that the project, together with the requisite budgetary provision, should be unanimously adopted. He took the oppor- tunity provided by the presence of Mr. Dodd and | Dr. Chisholm to thank them, in the name of his Government, for the admirable services rendered to his country by both FAO and WHO. [44] Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) under- lined the great importance of the discussions, and > pointed out that it was not a purely Unesco matter, | but a task for which co-operation between all the Specialized Agencies proved to be both the most | necessary and the most fruitful of the factors making for success. Mr. de Berredo Carneiro paid tribute to the Working Party’s report, and gave particular support to item 5, recommending reconsideration of | the number of centres to be set up and of the time- | table for their establishment, taking into account contributions obtained from outside sources. As | regarded item 6, he noted that the Working Party % had envisaged groups of countries or even individual | countries, in addition to regions. He supported that ‎م idea, while pointing out that the criterion to be borne in mind should be the number of illiterates,
371 and deli whi illit just [45 that loca eith plen [46 Leb: info cent the the Dire in Braz up i setti that that, Еву] rece: hope in r wou grou ther Japa his € natic Braz and [47] his ١‎ Braz mad [48] prais deve! ment the | othe; [49] the ° Jimé amer into whol whol [50] proje possi that |
371 PROGRAMME and that, far from adopting any strict system of delimitation, the point should rather be sought at which Unesco could render most effective service. In a country like his own, which had 26,000,000 illiterates of highly varied origins, it would be justifiable to set up a separable centre. [45] Mr. de Berredo Carneiro also pointed out that it was not for the Working Party to fix the locality of the proposed centre, which would have to be decided upon, before the end of the session, either by the Programme Commission or by the plenary Conference. [46] Mr. de Berredo Carneiro added that, like Lebanon, Turkey and the Philippines, Brazil had informed the Working Party of its wish to have a centre established in its territory, and he recalled the draft resolution formally submitted by Brazil for the setting up of such a centre, authorizing the Director-General to undertake the necessary studies in conjunction with the Brazilian Government. Brazil did not claim that such a centre should be set up in 1952; it would even give warm support to the setting up of a centre in the Middle East, and, in that connexion, Mr. de Berredo Carneiro recalled that, in the Working Party, he had supported Egypt's application, at that time the only one received. The Brazilian delegation nevertheless hoped that the Commission would bear its proposal in mind for future consideration. A Brazilian centre would be justified on purely social and humanitarian grounds. Out of the 26,000,000 illiterate Brazilians, there were many Italians, Syrians, Germans, Japanese, negroes, etc., who had sought refuge in his country. Such a project would be wholly inter- national, and it was that which had encouraged the Brazilian delegation to ask Unesco for moral support and aid in finding the necessary funds. [47] Mr. BERNALJIMENEZ (Colombia) expressed his sympathy for the proposal just made by the Brazilian delegate, as well as for that previously made by the Lebanese delegate. [48] Referring to the Working Party’s report, he praised the skill with which it had reconciled the development of the project with budgetary require- ments, in accordance with the criterion proposed by the United States delegation and supported by many other delegates. [49] After stating that the proposals submitted by the Working Party deserved approval, Mr. Bernal Jiménez suggested that paragraph (3) should be amended so that, instead of reading “to put the plan into immediate effect”, it would read: “to put the whole plan into immediate effect”, or “the plan as a whole”. [50] The Colombian delegate believed that the project was sufficiently important for the greatest possible latitude to be allowed in its discussion, So that it might be improved by the various suggestions COMMISSION IV-14 that were being made. It would be better to spend longer on it than to rush through the discussion and reject proposals which might be useful and bene- ficial. [61] In conclusion, Mr. Bernal Jiménez referred to the exceptional responsibilities placed on Unesco by the project, and drew attention to the attitude adopted towards it by the more highly developed countries. That was proof of the international soli- darity which prevailed in Unesco; countries which would not benefit from the project had welcomed it with tremendous enthusiasm. Deposit of an Instrument of Acceptance. [62] The CHAIRMAN informed the Commission that, since the Government of Cambodia had depo- sited its instrument of ratification, that country was entitled to vote in all the Commissions and Com- mittees of the Conference. Appointment of a Working Party (Consideration of Economic and Social Rights). [63] The General Committee had recommended that a working party should be set up to study the question of placing economic and social rights on an international basis. The Chairman proposed that the working party should consist of representatives of Australia, Brazil, Egypt, France, India, Italy, Lebanon, Mexico, Norway, the United Kingdom, the United States of America and Uruguay. [64] Agreed. Tribute to the United States of America on the Occasion of its National Festival. [65] Mr. LHERISSON (Haiti) paid special tribute to the United States delegation. By a high and splendid gesture, the United States Government had offered to the world the fruit of its experiences, of its industrial research and of its scientific experi- ments. By princely private benefactions, the American people had already contributed to the training of peoples throughout the globe. The United States of America had striven greatly in the cause of freedom and had devoted itself whole- heartedly to the rehabilitation of many countries laid low during the war. The United States contribution to the work of Unesco had always been generous and effective, particularly in connexion with the fundamental education project. [66] In reply, Mr. STODDARD (United States of America) expressed his thanks for the confidence        IV-15 PROGRAMME shown in his country. He had found so much support for the project, of which his delegation had had the honour to be in some sense the initiator, that he had not felt it necessary to attend in order to push forward the work, but merely to be present at its fruition. Paris would always be associated C'OMMTS SE TON 372 with the roots of American freedom and, indeed, with the freedom of the world: Mr. Stoddard closed by saying how moved he had been by the demonstra- tion of affection for his country that day. The meeting rose at 1 p.m. FIFTEENTH MEETING Wednesday, 4 July 1951, at 3.30 p.m. Chairman: Mr. A. Castro LEAL (Mexico) Special Project for the Establishment of a World Network of Regional Fundamental Education Centres (continuation) (documents
6C/PRG/3 and 6C/PRG/29). [1] Mr. CALO (Italy) stated that his delegation observed that the Commission was approaching una- nimity on the general lines of the Working Party’s report. The Italian delegation was anxious to avoid excessive centralization in the special fundamental education project. It considered that the conscience and beliefs of the peoples, as well as their funda- mental human rights, should be respected in the world campaign against ignorance, and hoped that it would develop to the utmost the cultural and reli- gious individuality of the peoples benefiting from it. [2] Mr. Cald therefore submitted, in the name of his delegation, the following resolution which was intended to supplement the report under con- sideration. The Programme Commission, noting the requests made by several States for the headquarters of one of the fundamental education centres to be set up intheir ter- ritory, thus demonstrating the most generous goodwill and a spirit of responsibility and co-operation which encourage the highest hopes, Decides: (a) That a second centre be set up during 1952; (b) That, since not all the requisite data on which to base an immediate and well-founded decision is yet available, the Director-General be instructed to undertake, in agreement with the Executive Board and the countries concerned, such study and negotiations as may enable a choice to be made in consideration of the conditions objectively most favourable to the establishment and operation of the centre. [3] Mr. PRUDENCIO (Bolivia) remarked that the problem of fundamental education was of special interest to his country, because there were many indigenous groups in Bolivia descended from a civilization no less ancient or rich in traditions than the Mexican, but fallen back into so primitive a state that great efforts would be required to mobilize them once more in the cause of civilization and culture. [4] Mr. Prudencio recalled that the Warizata school had been set up in his country, and that it had served as a model for the establishment of other similar centres. It was necessary to train men and citizens who could afterwards be useful to culture and civilization, by awakening the creative spirit in them, and inculcating the new way of life which the modern Western world could offer them. [6] His Government had approached Unesco with a request for technical assistance, especially during
1950, when the Organization had sent its first mission to Bolivia, consisting of two Latin American pro- fessors, who, after studying the situation in the coun- try, had sent a report to Unesco. [6] The Bolivians owed much to European teach- ing methods, and more especially to Belgium. One of the first missions to his country had been led by a well-known Belgian educationist, who had trained generations of teachers and instituted European edu- cational traditions in Bolivia. [7] Bolivia was prepared to receive a new funda- mental education centre. As regarded the other South American countries, however, and, in partic- ular, Brazil, which was also anxious to have such a centre, Mr. Prudencio pointed out that, although the groups of illiterates were exceedingly large in that country, they were entirely different in racial and cultural origin from those of Peru, Ecuador, Bolivia and Northern Argentina. The geographical position of his country, which was in the heart of America, was a great advantage. Experiments car- ried out in Bolivia could easily be extended and adapted to its neighbours.   | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | A