77 PROGRAMME COMMISSION IV-16 SIXTEENTH MEETING Thursday, 5 July 1961, at 3.30 p.m. Chairman: Mr. Jean Piacer (Switzerland) Discussion of the Draft Programme for 1952 (continuation). Second Reading. [1] The Chairman introduced the second reading of the draft programme for 1952 [document
6C/5 (1) |. General Discussion. [2] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL regretted that new budget cuts had to be proposed, despite the fact that the General Conference had continually praised the draft programme, and that the delegates themselves had frequently opposed the Secretariat’s own pro- posals for reductions. It seemed, therefore, that the method of fixing a budget ceiling was not satis- factory, and the Executive Board would certainly have to give thought, in future, to the alternatives of developing or stabilizing the programme. During the first reading of the draft programme, four resolutions had been deleted for budgetary reasons, and not because of criticism of their substance. Yet at the same time, the Commission had adopted eight new resolutions. It was thus exceeding difficult to maintain the budget ceiling that had been fixed, as the programme had scarcely been modified at all. Moreover, the Joint Meeting of the Programme and Official and External Relations Commissions had decided to allocate sums of $20,000 and $15,000 respectively to liaison services with Germany and Japan, which meant that new reductions would have to be made in other chapters of the budget. Neither did the decision to provide $105,000 for the special project for fundamental education out of the normal budget facilitate the task of the Secretariat and the Commission. Cuts made at the first reading amounted to a total of $536,422, althoughthat figure had not yet been confirmed by the Budget Committee. At the same time, in addition to the overall cut of one per cent which would be required as a result of the decision on the special project, $15,000 had also to be found for liaison services with Japan. The Director-General had not taken that fact into account In making his proposals, since the question was one for the Official and External Relations Commission. In the circumstances, it would be necessary, in order to attain the total reduction of 11.38 per cent, to make cuts equal to $146,525. If the Official and External Relations Commission declined to cut the budget of the External Relations Service, a new meeting of the Programme Commission would have to be called in order to find the necessary funds. [3] The Director-General then read out the follow- ing proposals: [4] 1. Education. Te. Cut of $740 in the total $6,000 for travel on official business.
1.2121. Reduction of $2,500, bringing the contribution to the Joint Unesco-Haitian Government fund down to $17,500.
1.233. Reduction of $20,000 in the funds for expert missions ($26,000 per mission). Suppression of the post of a grade 8 assistant: $3,210, and of a grade 4 secretary: $2,130.
1.251. Reduction of $2,000 on fees.
1.332. Reduction of $1,200 on consultants’ fees: reduction of $5,000 on contractual printing costs (cutting out the sample wall chart on the attain- ment of Human Rights). Indirect costs would moreover be cut by $2,400 following the afore-mentioned elimination of two posts. Total savings for the Department of Education: $39,180. [6] 2. Natural Sciences:
211 Overall .reduction of $5,000 in subventions to international non-governmental organizations.
2.13. Reduction of $10,500 in expenditure for Regional Science Co-operation Offices (consultants: $1,000; fees: $3,000; regional staff: $2,000; travel on official business: $4,500).
2.251. Reduction of $5,000 for contracts with inter- national non-governmental organizations. Total savings for the Department of Natural Sciences: $20,500. [6] 3. Social Sciences.
3.121. Reduction of $4,000 in contractual printing costs (postponement of publication of the report on the effects of industrialization). Reduction of $2,400 in fees contracts for the publication of articles on the social sciences.
3.14. The new posts envisaged for the Science Co- operation Offices in Montevideo and Jakarta would be created three months later. Saving: $3,650 and $7,000.
3.24. Reduction of $2,500 on travel. Total savings for the Department of Social Sciences $19,450. [7] 4. Cultural Activities.
4.11. Overall reduction of $9,560 in subventions. A special working party could decide how the reduction should be distributed.
43 Reduction of $2,000 in personnel costs for temporary staff (interpretation and Secretariat)       IV-16 PROGRAMME for the inter-governmental conference on copy- right. Reduction of 84,000 in transport costs for libra- ries in certain countries. Reduction of $4,000 on the proposed contract with the International Council for Philosophy and Humanistic Studies. Total savings for the Department of Cultural Activities: $19,560. . Exchange of Persons. Reductions of $263 and $262 resulting from a cut in the funds allocated for travelling fellowships for workers and young people (sup- pression of two temporary posts). Reduction of $4,000 in travel costs for the specialist temporarily engaged to organize Unesco’s University Courses. Reduction of $21,500 in the funds for travel fellowships and seminars. Total savings for the Exchange of Persons Service : $26,025. . Mass Communication. Reduction of $16,000 in the appropriation for assisting the dissemination of cultural films. The cut in the budget of the Department of Mass Communication already exceeded nine per cent. Rehabilitation. Suppression of the post of a grade 10 assistant ($5,810, of which $1,400 represented indirect costs). [10] 7. [11] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) regretfully accepted the need to make such heavy reductions in the budget, but drew atention to the proposal specially submitted by the Cuban delegation in document 6C/DR/1, sug- gesting the establishment in Unesco House of a Reception and Information Office to deal with intellectuals coming to work in Paris. [12] The justification for the proposal was incontro- vertible, as could easily be seen by reading the considerations justifying the need for such a service. [13] Its establishment would necessitate only a small increase in the budget, in return for which it would remedy a lamentable deficiency, while at the same time providing the best solution to the dif- ficulties experienced in its absence by Unesco’s friends. [14] Mr. Brull added that the lack of a special service for the purpose in question was inexplicable, seeing that its existence and the work done by it would help to maintain the Organization’s prestige. So far, the Department of Mass Communication had carried out the function, but had done so irregularly and not entirely satisfactorily, owing to lack of centralization. Those defects would be effectively corrected by the setting up of the proposed office. [15] The Cuban delegation was anxious that, while the budget was being readjusted, the proposal for setting up a Reception Office should be brought to the Commission’s notice, with special emphasis on its exceptional value, and on the gaps it would COMMISSION 378 fill. He concluded by proposing that the service in question, which would have to be organized by the Director-General, should be run by two officials. [16] Mr. SOMMERFELT (Representative of the Ex- ecutive Board) stated that, in the Board's view, the Secretariat’s existing services were adequate, and Mr. GUIGNOLET (Rapporteur of the Budget Com- mittee) added that the Budget Committee had transmitted the draft resolution to the Administrative Commission, pointing out the value of setting up an Information Office, and requesting that Commission to study the possibility of setting up such an Office by increasing existing services within the Secretariat. The Budget Committee had not yet been informed of the Administrative Commission's decision. [17] Mr. CAIN (France) considered that, while the question deserved serious study, it did not fall within the terms of reference of the Programme Commission, which was not competent to give a decision on its merits. [18] The CHAIRMAN recalled that the Commission had already referred the matter to the Budget Com- mittee. [19] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) considered that the matter should be settled in the Programme Commission. He wished to know who supported the proposal to set up a service which, in his opinion, had an extremely important function to perform. He therefore asked for a vote by roll-call. [20] Mr. van ZYL (Union of South Africa) thought that, if the proposal were adopted, the Programme Commission would have to embark upon a third reading of the programme. He wondered whether the existing service could not do the work required, with the possible addition of one new post. [21] Mr. LHERISSON (Haiti) proposed that the Commission should vote on the reference of the proposal to the Administrative Commission before voting on the substance of the matter. [22] By 29 votes to 6, with 4 abstentions, it was decided to take a vote by roll-call on the Cuban dele- gation’s proposal. [23] Mr. van ZYL (Union of South Africa) again asked whether the work could not be done satis- factorily by the existing office. [24] Mr. SCHNEIDER (Director, Department of Mass Communication) agreed that that was the case. Although he was not responsible for the Reception Office during the General Conference, he thought he i ii y‏ و т Я‏ - ا— ل ح س ح ح ك t e ‏ ج ك ا ك ه I I A ‏ و ج و .اك أ ج ل ل ح ا T E m e s с е т е — ] T — — ] — — ] l i e e I e A ‏ — .
37 co thi wd sty vid an) ау!   Ed
501 Cu Re Std Ed [8 tha He
379 PROGRAMME could speak on behalf of his colleagues in saying that the work done by that Office during the Conference was wholly adequate. As regarded information for students visiting Paris, the Exchange of Persons Ser- vice maintained close contacts with such students and supplied them with information about courses available in France or elsewhere, etc. [25] On a vote by roll-call, the Cuban proposal was adopted by 23 votes to 14, with 10 abstentions and
14 delegations absent, and was referred to the Budget Committee for examination. [26] Voted in favour: Afghanistan, Argentina, Bel- gium, Bolivia, Burma, Cambodia, China, Costa Rica, Cuba, Ecuador, Honduras, Iran, Israel, Lebanon, Liberia, Luxembourg, Mexico, Panama, Salvador, Syria, Turkey, Uruguay, Venezuela. Voted against: Australia, Austria, Canada, Den- mark, Egypt, Haiti, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nor- way, Sweden, Switzerland, Union of South Africa, United Kingdom, United States of America. Abstained: France, Greece, India, Iraq, Italy, Japan, Monaco, Pakistan, Philippines, Yugoslavia. Absent: Brazil, Ceylon, Colombia, Czechoslovakia, Dominican Republic, Guatemala, Hashemite Jordan, Hungary, Indonesia, Korea, Peru, Poland, Saudi Arabia, Thailand. [27] Mr. GUIGNOLET. (Rapporteur of the Budget Committee) was not certain whether the text of the   COMMISSION 17-6 Cuban delegation’s proposal would enable the Budget Committee to suggest any figures. [28] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) said that the Cuban dele- gation had amended its proposal to provide for two staff members in the Reception and Information Office. [29] Mr. LHERISSON (Haiti) hoped that the deci- sion would not cause any cut in allocations already made to other older activities. Otherwise, he failed to see how the Commission could have agreed to the setting up of a new service. [30] Mr. MAHEU (Director, Office of the Director- General) stated that, in view of the budget ceiling which had been adopted, it would be necessary to find funds for any newly created service from savings in other parts of the budget. [31] Mr. CAIN (France) pointed out that it was on that account that many delegations, otherwise, in principle, favourable to the project had abstained from voting. In reality, it was the Administrative Commission which should have taken the decision on the question. [32] In reply to questions from Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) and Mr. CAIN (France), Mr. MAHEU (Director, Office of the Director- General) gave the following figures:
1951 GR theде Percentage Budget “for 1952 for 1952 reduction $ $ $ Education 1,113,556 1,361,642 1,215,181 10.76 Natural Sciences 857,439 963,141 857,871 10.98 Social Sciences 414,824 570,846 - 505,571 11.43 Cultural Activities 821,062 990,776 877,965 11:39 Exchange of Persons 305,707 573,903 496,879 13.42 Mass Communication 978,129 1,172,939 1,035,337 11.73 Rehabilitation Service 356,954 289,849 257,039 11.32 Statistical Service 62,271 87,053 80,853 7.12 Total percentage : 11.01 Education. [33] Mr. GABRIEL JEAN-FRANCOIS (Haiti) said that he had found the discussion very discouraging. He recalled that, at the Mexico Conference, about
10 Member States had offered pilot projects conducted on theirterritory. Three such projects had been under- taken—in Haiti, China and Nyassaland. The Nyassa- land experiment had been abandoned at the end of a year. The China experiment had fallen a victim to military events on Chinese soil. The Haitian project was working on a sound basis, after passing through many vicissitudes. The Government of Haiti had concluded an agreement with Unesco to extend the experiment and engage a large number of experts. Yet it was proposed to reduce the funds allotted to the project. On the other hand, the Director-General had put forward a scheme for the establishment of a world network of regional fundamental education centres. After the study of that ambitious and promising project, it was proposed merely to set up a single fundamental education centre in 1952 with . funds from the Organization’s regular budget. While all delegations spoke eloquently in favour of funda- mental education and technical assistance, Member States were refusing to make requisite financial sacri- o   |
1V-16 PROGRAMME fices. In view of that attitude, the delegate of Haiti could not but view pessimistically the Organi- zation’s future. [34] Mr. STODDARD (United States of America) pointed out that the percentages for the cuts proposed by the Director-General were very close to the theo- retical ceiling, so that there might be difficulty in making the final adjustments. Even if the 1 per cent reduction were then added, it might not give full meaning to the previous day’s discussion on the special fundamental education project. The United States delegation therefore moved the acceptance of the Director-General’s proposal, and to that end, the adoption of the following resolution: In order (1) to provide a small reserve for other programme resolutions in Education, and (2) to help to build up the appropriations for fundamental education, It is moved that Resolution 1.251 be reduced by the sum of $25,000. [35] Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia) supported that pro- posal, on condition that the cut was restored as soon as economies elsewhere made it possible. [S6] Mr. LHÉRISSON (Haiti) asked what were the total sums allocated to the Marbial Valley Project in 1951. [37] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu- cation) informed the delegate of Haiti that, before the transfer of the Haiti Pilot Project to the Technical Assistance programme in the previous year, Unesco had contributed $25,000 towards the Joint Unesco- Haiti fund, as well as paying the salary of the Director of the Marbial Valley scheme. In the mean- time, Haiti had requested technical assistance, and a suggestion had therefore been made at the first reading of the programme for a cut of $6,500. That proposal, vigorously opposed by the Haitian dele- gation, had been intended to mark the fact that that country was receiving substantial help from Tech- nical Assistance funds, but that, since those funds did not cover all the expenses of the Marbial Valley scheme, Unesco did not wish entirely to cut off its help. Mr. Elvin pointed out that the Director- General, and presumably all the delegations in the Commission, greatly regretted the need for the cut and were anxious to spread the burden as fairly as possible. It was therefore proposed to cut only $2,500, which he suggested was not unreasonable in the circumstances. [38] Mr. Elvin was not sure what the effect of Mr. Stoddard’s motion would be. If $25,000 were saved in item 1.251 to provide a reserve and assist the Director-General in making a later cut of one per cent throughout the programme, he might be placed in an awkward situation, since the one per COMMISSION 380 cent cut applied afterwards to the Education Depart- ment would reduce that Department's budget more than it would that of others. If that procedure were adopted, however, Mr. Elvin wondered whether the suggested item was a suitable one to cut. At the first reading of the programme, the vote had admittedly not been unanimous, but it had been decided that the conference on the mental health of children should be held. That conference was useful in itself, it was greatly worthwhile to Unesco, and, moreover, it would not be organized by WHO if Unesco did not hold it. [39] In reply to a further remark by Mr. LHERIS- SON (Haiti), Mr. ELVIN agreed that the salary of the Director of the Marbial Valley Scheme had not been paid out of Unesco funds, so that Unesco’s con- tribution in 1951 in fact amounted to $20,000. [40] Mr. LHERISSON (Haiti) pointed out that, just as the Haiti project was beginning to expand, the funds available for it would be reduced. He was defending not so much his Government's interests as the principles raised by the proposed reduction. [41] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) thought that the discussion on the United States motion and the point made by Mr. Lhérisson illus- trated the wisdom of the course he himself had thought right when the debate started. When the Commission had before it the percentage cuts sug- gested, the principles on which the Director-General had worked in making those suggestions had become clear. It would be difficult, at that stage, to reach unanimity on all the suggestions in detail, and Sir John therefore suggested that they should be accepted as faras possible in toto, without attempting to reconsider their incidence on each section of the programme. A working party might be set up to determine the detailed distribution of the cuts, as had been done in the case of the Department of Natural Sciences, but, speaking generally, Sir John strongly urged that the Commission should nottry to make further modifications in the overall suggestions. [42] Mr. STODDARD (United States of America) had thought that, in view of the need for further cuts, it might be useful to make proposals at the second reading. However, he agreed that Sir John Maud’s proposal might save much time if it were accepted, and he asked whether the United Kingdom delegate was prepared to put it forward as a motion. [43] Mr. SAMBURSKY (Israel) pointed out that the percentages given by the Director-General and his representative were somewhat misleading. What was really required was a comparison of the proposed expenditure for 1952 with the actual expenditure for E ” a = E m n e E , E E E A > ا ب ي ب e . a . . . ج ا ت ‎     — ت ب ي م م وو E E a T T T P O T A T L A S O a ب ح ت ا ل اج ا ح ‎ A т
1951, in which case the following results were obtained: Department of Education: Increase of nine per cent; Department of Natural Sciences: Increase of
0 per cent; Department of Social Sciences: Increase of 14 per cent; Department of Cultural Activities: Increase of seven per cent; Department of Mass Communication: Increase of 2 1/2 per cent. [44] In absolute terms, the total increase amounted to slightly over $200.000 for the Departments of Education, Natural Sciences, Social Sciences, Cultural Activities and Mass Communication. [45] In reply to a question from the CHAIRMAN, Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) said that he had not originally intended his proposal to apply to all Departments, but he was prepared to extend it to include all the cuts proposed by the Director-General. He therefore moved his proposal, subject to the Director-General’s retaining the right to apply the distribution of the cuts within each section. [46] Mr. CAIN (France) thought it would be diffi- cult to follow any method other than that suggested by Sir John Maud. He wished to stress the impor- tance of the principle of continuity in Unesco’s work, and thought it would be deplorable to cut funds already allocated to existing activities. In that matter, he shared the views expressed by the Haitian delegate. [47] At the CHAIRMAN's proposal, it was decided, by 38 votes to 3, with 3 abstentions, to vote on the overall percentage of budget cuts proposed by the Director-General for each Department, subject to examining the incidence of such reductions within each Department. [48] At the proposal of Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom), seconded by the delegates of Australia, Egypt and Iran, the figures proposed for the Depart- ment of Education were adopted by 38 votes, with
1 abstention. Natural Sciences. [49] Mr. MAHEU (Director, Office of the Director- General) stated that it was proposed to make a cut of $10,000 in item 2.13 instead of the $10,500 mentioned before, thus bringing the total cuts for the Department of Natural Sciences down to $20,000. [50] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) recalled that a Working Party had been set up to consider the best distribution of the cut of $5,000 for the subven- tions under item 2.11. That Working Party might also consider whether the proposals of the Director- General were the best possible for the Department, as regarded their detailed application. He therefore COMMISSION IV-16 moved that details should not be discussed in the Commission. [51] The motion was seconded by Mr. STODDARD (United States of America) and Mr. MILLS (Austra- lia). [62] Mr. van ZYL (Union of South Africa) was prepared to support the motion, but wished to know whether, in view of the fact that there was no increase in the Department’s programme for 1952, the overall cut of one per cent proposed by the Director- General on all Departments meant that the Natural Science budget would be smaller than in 1951. [63] Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences) agreed that that was the case. [54] Mr. SAMBURSKY (Israel) suggested that, in the circumstances, no further cut should be made in the Department’s budget. [65] Mr. CAIN (France), seconded by Mr. LHERIS- SON (Haiti) and Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece), asked that the budget of the Department of Natural Sciences should, if possible, not be reduced by a further one per cent. Such a decision would show the Commis- sion’s interest in that part of the programme. [56] Mr. van ZYL (Union of SouthAfrica) thought that, in view of the previous discussion and the Director-General’s statement, the Commission was in order in requesting that the one per cent cut should not be applied to the Department of Natural Sciences. [57] Mr. MAHEU (Director, Office of the Director- General) recalled that it had been decided to make a reduction of one per cent on all the appropriations shown in Table II of the Budget Estimates. [58] Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences) pointed out that the French delegation’s proposal would make available a sum of $8,500 in the Department of Natural Sciences, thereby bringing its budget back to the previous year’s level. He noted the French delegation’s proposal with satisfaction. [69] Mr. STODDARD (United States of America) proposed that Sir John Maud’s suggestion should be adopted, and that the matter should be discussed by the Working Party in co-operation with the Director of the Department, and a final budget framed within the total cuts proposed by the Director-General. [60] Agreed. Social Sciences. [61] The Director-General’s proposals were adopted.
1717 PROGRAMME Cultural Activities. [62] At the proposal of Mr. CAIN (France), seconded by Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece), it was decided to set up a Working Party to study the budget cuts relating to the Department of Cultural Activities. [63] Mr. MILLS (Australia), seconded by the dele- gates of New Zealand and Italy proposed that the Working Party should consist of five members. [64] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) pointed out that the Working Party was being given full powers to make a final decision, subject to any changes which might be made in the plenary meeting. It seemed to him rather dangerous to limit the number of opinions which could be heard to as few as five. He therefore suggested that the Commission might compromise on a membership of ten, which would be both more judicious and more democratic. [65] Agreed.
382GOOM MIS S10N [66] Mr. CAIN (France) suggested that the Working Party’s terms of reference should be restricted to studying the four resolutions mentioned by the Director-General, whereupon Mr. MAHEU (Director, Office of the Director-General) pointed out that the role of the Working Party would not be exactly the same at that of the Party concerned with the Natural Sciences. [67] At the suggestion of the CHAIRMAN, Mr. Cain’s proposal was adopted, and it was agreed that the Working Party should consist of representa- tives of the following countries : Australia, France, Haiti, Iran, India, Italy, Lebanon, Mexico, the United Kingdom and the United States of America. Exchange of Persons. Rehabilitation. Mass Communication. [68] The Director-General’s proposals were adopted. The meeting rose at 6 p.m. SEVENTEENTH MEETING Friday, 6 July 1951, at 3.30 p.m. Chairman: Mr. Jean Prager (Switzerland) Discussion of the Draft Programme for 1952 (continuation). Second Reading. Natural Sciences. [1] Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) expressed the anxiety felt by the Belgian delegation concerning the situa- tion of the Department of Natural Sciences. As a result of programme cuts made to adjust its budget to the limits enforced by the ceiling adopted, that Department would have even smaller funds in 1952 than in 1950 and 1951. The Belgian delegation was not proposing a resolution at that stage of the work, but merely the adoption of a recommen- dation to the Budget Committee, proposing that . . . E a sum of $8,500 be added to the budget of the Department of Natural Sciences for the Field Science Co- operation Offices, whose appropriation has been con- siderably reduced. That sum would bring the Department's budget back to the 1950 and 1951 level. The Budget Committee would be entirely free to take a final decision on the recommendation. [2] The proposal was seconded by various dele- gations. [3] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL had every under- standing for the anxiety felt by the Belgian dele- gation. He suggested that, in order to find the necessary funds, the Budget Committee might be requested, in revising the budget, to make available to the Department of Natural Sciences any surplus, however small, resulting from its examination of the proposals as a whole. Such a procedure would be no more than fair, and would avoid upsetting the balance of the Department’s programme at the juncture reached. [4] Mr. de PALMA (United States of America) considered that, in order to avoid misunderstanding in the future, a limit should be set to the amount