XIII-3 enough to say that the Commission proposed to examine the possibility of accepting gifts from Member States, which could be used in the interior decoration of the new building. [45] Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) proposed HEADQUARTERS COMMITTEE adding “in the construction and the interior decoration”. [46] The proposal, as amended, was adopted. The meeting rose at 1 p.m. THIRD MEETING Thursday, 5 July 1951, at 3 p.m. Chairman: Mr. C. A. THomson (United States of America) Consideration of the Draft Report of the Head- quarters Commission to the General Conference. [1] Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) considered that the building of a conference hall and delegation offices should not go forward, and accordingly pro- posed the deletion of the word “perhaps” in the second sentence of the third paragraph. [2] Mr. DAVIES (Australia), Rapporteur, pointed out that, whether or not the paragraph were adopted in its existing form, the Headquarters Commission would have to decide, under paragraph 3 (a) of the resolution, which parts of the building were to be put in hand first. [3] Mr. de LACHARRIERE (France) said that the French Government wished a decision on the build- ing of a headquarters to be taken during the General Conference’s Sixth Session. That decision should cover the question whether or not to build a con- ference hall and delegation offices, because the arguments that had clinched the offer of the interest- free loan were: (1) that Unesco should be in a posi- tion to hold conferences in Paris; and (2) that the conference hall would be used for other purposes be- tween sessions of the General Conference. It was important, in order to maintain the case for the interest-free loan, that those two arguments should not be weakened in any way. The French Govern- ment desired a decision on the whole proposal because it feared that, otherwise, the entire loan might be spent on the Secretariat building and a further loan be required later to build a conference hall and dele- gation offices. [4] Mr. de Lacharriére therefore proposed:
(1) that the third paragraph of the report, first sentence, should read: In examining the various aspects of the question, the Headquarters Commission has reached the conclusion that the plans for the permanent Headquarters should be drawn up in such a way that, while covering the whole of the building, including accommodation needed for sessions of the General Conference, they would allow construction to proceed by stages, according to the urgency of requirements.
(2) that the second sentence of the same paragraph should read: In particular, the Commission considers that there is perhaps no need at present to proceed with the construc- tion of the Conference Hall and delegations’ offices. The rest of the paragraph to be deleted. [6] Mr. van de KERCHOVE d’HALLEBAST (Bel- gium) supported the French proposal, because he felt that financial complications would follow from any failure to take a decision on the whole scheme at the onset. [6] favoured Mr. de Lacharridre’s motion, since any other decision would imperil the homogeneous design of the building and might involve additional expense if the building were planned in portions. [7] The Commission approved the first French amendment, subject to any necessary drafting changes, and agreed that the remainder of the para- graph should be deleted. [8] At the suggestion of Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom), the Commission agreed that the fifth para- graph of the report should be amended to read: In the light of these considerations, the Headquarters Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) also | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |    ВТО Commission recommends the following resolution for consideration by the General Conference. [9] The reason for the change was that, with its existing terms of reference, the Commission could put forward advice only tentatively. Title and Role of the Headquarters Commission. [10] The Commision agreed that, in view of its restricted membership and of the conventional ter- minology used in Unesco, the Commission should in future be known as the Headquarters Committee. [11] The CHAIRMAN pointed out that originally the Headquarters Commission had had advisory func- tions, and that the resolution which it was sub- mitting to the General Conference contained phrases which implied a stronger position: he instanced paragraphs (2) (c)—“with the prior approval of the Headquarters Committee”—and (3) (a)—“estab- lish . . . the portions of the architect’s general plan to be executed immediately.” [12] The SECRETARY felt that Resolution 26.1, adopted by the General Conference at its Fifth Ses- sion, gave the Commission more than advisory functions. [13] Mr. MONTAGNIER (Head, Bureau of Con- ference Planning and General Services) drew atten- tion to the development of the functions of the Head- quarters Commission. Whereas in 1949, under Resolution 29.12 of the Conference at its Fourth Session, it had had a purely advisory responsibility, in 1950 it had been regarded as an advisory body, with the functions of an approving authority in cer- tain matters (Resolution 26.1). [14] Mr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) considered that, under paragraph (2) of the Commission’s resolu- tion, it would have an advisory role in the taking of decisions, while its approval would be required for action. [15] Mr. COWELL(United Kingdom) thought that the position of the Headquarters Commission (or, in future, Committee) should be strengthened, and pro- posed that its approval should be required for the appointment of an architect, paragraph (2) (b) of the resolution being amended to read: These will report to the Director-General, who with the approval of the Headquarters Committee, will nominate an architect. . . [16] The CHAIRMAN asked the Commission to bear in mind, in its discussion of its future role, the fact that its members were not experts in archi- tecture and that they would not be able to meet more often than once a month. HEADQUARTERS COMMITTEE XTIT-3 [17] Mr. DAVIES (Australia), Rapporteur, pointed out that members of the Commission represented their governments and were not sitting as individuals. Governments would be quite free to send architects with their delegations, if they so desired. [18] Mr. de LACHARRIÈRE (France) said that, in adopting paragraph (3) of the resolution, the Administrative Commission and the General Con- ference would in fact be providing the Headquarters Committee with terms of reference appropriate to the task referred to it under that resolution. He agreed with the Rapporteur that members of the Committee did not themselves need to be experts in architecture. They would besitting as administrative officials. [19] Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) concurred in the French delegate’s opinion regarding the terms of reference under paragraph (3) of the resolution. [20] Mr. DAVIES (Australia), Rapporteur, noted that, under that paragraph, the Headquarters Com- mittee would tend to become permanent. [21] Mr. de LACHARRIERE (France) considered that there was nothing abnormal in that. The Com- mission had already been in existence for two years and should continue in existence until the new build- ing had been completed, although it did not need to be in permanent session. [22] The United Kingdom amendment to para- graph (2) (b) was adopted. [23] Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) noted that, in the form submitted, paragraph (2) (b) of the resolution did not take into account the possibi- lity that the plan presented by the architect ap- pointed provisionally might not be approved, and that the work might have to be partly or wholly revised. [24] It was agreed that the final drafting should make provision for that eventuality. [25] Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) sug- gested that the role of the group of architects should be strengthened, and that they should submit definite advice to the Headquarters Committee. [26] Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) supported that view and proposed that the word “comments” should be replaced by “observations”. [27] Agreed. [28] Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) proposed that the role of the architects should be further strengthened by a change in the drafting of the second half of paragraph (2) (b).      XIII-3 [29] Mr. DAVIES (Australia), Rapporteur, sug- gested that the semicolon should be replaced by a full stop and that a new sentence should be added, to the following effect: They (the five architects) will make their recommen- dations to the Director-General who, with the approval of the Headquarters Committee, will adopt a plan and designate an architect to be entrusted with its execution. [30] [31] In connexion with paragraph (3) (b), Mr. MONTAGNIER (Head, Bureau of Conference Planning and General Services) said that the fact that the Committee would be acting in an advisory capacity under one part of the resolution and in that of an approving authority under another involved no basic inconsistency. [32] [33] Мг: Agreed. The Committee accepted that view. COWELL (United Kingdom) proposed Resolution on the establishment of an International Centre for the Social Sciences. The Administrative Committee and the Research Com- mittee of the International Sociological Association, Having taken note of a proposal submitted to the General Conference of Unesco, and set out in the “Report on the Consultative Meeting on the Question of Interna- tional Social Science Centres” (document Unesco/SS/ SSI/Conf. 3, Paris, 24 May 1951), for the establishment of an International Social Science Centre to deal more particularly with problems relating to the “human implications of technical changes”, Wish to draw Unesco’s attention once more to the views of the Association as expressed in the resolutions adopted by the World Congress at Zürich (document
13 AZ/10 app. I A, and document Unesco/SS/SSI/Conf. 3, Annex 1) and by the working meeting subsequently held in London [document ISA/1951/5 Sect. 6 (d), page 20]. The International Sociological Association has done much work towards the exploration and elucidation of the problems arising in connexion with the establish- ment of international social science centres and sub- mitted detailed reports (cf. document ISA/Misc./2) on the occasion of the consultative meetings convened by Unesco. The International Sociological Association is fully conscious of the urgent need for the co-ordination of social research at the international level but considers that the utmost caution must be exercised in the pre- paration of the plans for the purpose. Four points of the greatest importance must be kept constantly in mind in determining the administrative machinery for such closely co-ordinated international research plans:
1. All plans for the extension or establishment of international research centres must be experimental in character and extremely flexible. i
2. Tt is desirable that recourse should be had, to the fullest possible extent, to the active co-operation of social scienlists in universities or existing research institutes, and of international associations specializing in each of the social disciplines. UE ADQUAR VERS COMMITTEE 780 the deletion in paragraph (3) (c) of the words si collaboration with the Director-General”. The Com- mittee should report independently. [34] [35] Subject to a number of drafting changes, the presentation of the Report was then approved. Agreed. [36] Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) hoped that, in presenting the Report, the Rapporteur would have the authority of the Committee to state that its mem- bers had co-operated loyally in carrying out the task referred to it under Resolution 26,1 of the General Conference at its Fifth Session but that, in so doing, they had not prejudiced the position of their delegations or committed their governments. [37] Agreed. The meeting rose at 4.46 p.m.
3. It would be dangerous to set up a complex ad- ministrative superstructure necessitating much greater expenditure on the administrative services than on actual research; and
4. It is important that the training of social scientists, in whatever special field, should be closely related to the resources available in recognized universities. As regards the projected international centre for the study of the human implications of technical changes, the International Sociological Association agrees that this problem is of the utmost importance. The Association has been unable to give the proposed plan more than superficial consideration, and urgently requests that Unesco, before taking any decision in this connexion, should afford it and the other international social science associations interested in the project an opportunity of studying the proposals at leisure and submitting recom- mendations. In the light of the information in its possession, the International Sociological Association feels that the proposals as regards research machinery, and more particularly that for the establishment of one centre only, are not those best calculated to attain the ends sought. The Association takes the opposite view that, in the present state of research, the type of international institute envisaged would be ineffective and would be a hindrance rather than a service to the cause which it is our desire to further, i.e. the expansion and prac- tical application of the social sciences. The International Sociological Association is prepared to co-operate with the other international associations, with Unesco, and with the International Council for Social Science Research which it is hoped to establish, in the thorough examination of the important questions involved, notably the need, practical possibilities and functions of the proposed centre, the lines on which it should be organized, its relationships with existing centres and universities, the resources necessary, and the selection and scope of the items of research to be undertaken.