COMMITTEE 704 X-6 PROCEDURE [98] The discussion was adjourned until the next [97] Mr. ILLUECA (Panama), speaking on a point meeting.of order, reminded the meeting that, under Rule 78 of the Rules of Procedure, no proposal could be put to the vote unless it had previously been circulated to all the delegates. م م س The meeting rose at 6.45 p.m. SIXTH MEETING Tuesday, 26 June 1951, at 10.30 a.m. Chairman: Report by the Director-General on the Change in Periodicity of Sessions of the General Con- ference (continuation) (document 6C/PRO/7 and Addenda). [1] The CHAIRMAN opened the discussion on the draft resolutions submitted by Switzerland (docu- ment 6C/DR/40), Cuba (document 6C/DR/42), the United States of America (document 6C/DR/43), and the United Kingdom (document 6C/DR/49). [2] In reply to a comment by Mgr. MAROUN (Lebanon), the CHAIRMAN pointed out that the French delegation’s proposal to defer discussion of the question until the Seventh Session of the Gen- eral Conference had not been formally presented to the Committee in writing. [3] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) suggested that the right course would be first to discuss and vote upon the Cuban and Swiss resolutions (docu- ments 6C/DR/42 and 6C/DR/40). The Committee could then go on to vote upon the United Kingdom resolution (document 6C/DR/49). If the absence of the French proposal in written form meant that the French delegation had decided not to press its views, then the Committee could vote at once upon the four resolutions which had been submitted in writing. If not, it would have to take the French resolution. before the others, since it was entirely incompatible with them. [4] Mr. SEYDOUX (France) said that, for the moment, the French delegation did not wish to press its draft resolution, but would bring it before the Committee if the various other motions did not obtain an adequate majority. [5] Mr. CATES (United States of America) con- sidered that the two questions of biennial sessions Mr. Tevrix SAGLAM (Turkey) and the modification of the structure of the Ex- ecutive Board could be considered separately. A discussion on the desirability of biennial sessions would not necessarily entail examination of the con- stitution of the Executive Board. If the meeting shared his view,it could first vote on paragraph (1) of the United Kingdom resolution and then go on to discuss the second paragraph. If it voted affir- matively on the second paragraph, it would auto- matically have registered its desire for a change in the structure of the Executive Board; if it did not discuss that paragraph, the Board would remain as it stood. [6] Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) seconded the United States proposal. He considered the ques- tion of biennial sessions entirely separate from that of the reorganization of the Executive Board. [7] Mr. STONE (Australia) considered it preferable not to separate the two matters. separated, it was desirable to discuss the position of the Executive Board first; otherwise, there might well be a gap in functional control between sessions of the General Conference. Unless the opinion of the delegations generally could be obtained regarding the desirability of reorganizing the Board, the Australian delegation would be unable to support the principle of biennial sessions. [8] Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) supported United States delegate’s proposal to consider the two questions separately. [9] Mr. PIAGET (Switzerland) agreed that it was advisable to separate the question of biennial ses: sions from that of the Board's structure, Ven though they might eventually be covered by a single resolution. If they had to be the ° . — " m s c c
1     PERO: EDU: RE [10] Mr. ZÉREGA FOMBONA (Venezuela) agreed with the previous speakers in supporting the United States proposal to deal separately with the two fundamental aspects of biennial sessions of the Con- ference. He thought the Committee should first consider the biennial question and, after taking a decision upon that, begin discussion of the Executive Board’s reorganization. [11] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL wished there to be no misunderstanding; it seemed to him that most of the delegations which had asked for the two aspects of the problem to be considered separately wanted the Committee to give its decision on the Board's structure, before voting on the question of biennial sessions. [12] Mr. de SPOT (Belgium) considered that, if the two related questions were to be taken separately, that of biennial sessions should be discussed first. [13] Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) felt, on the contrary, that the prime need was to elucidate the problem of the Board’s structure and the alter- ations in its functioning which biennial sessions would involve. As the Australian delegate had said, if biennial sessions meant altering the structure of the Board, the Conference should approach the problem from a different angle. For his own part, the Brazilian representative would be prepared to vote for biennial sessions so long as they did not involve structural changes in the Executive Board. [14] Mr. BLANCO (Cuba) agreed with the dele- gates who considered that the problem of biennial sessions presented two distinct aspects, which should be dealt with separately. Referring to the draft resolution presented by the United Kingdom, the Cuban delegate believed that the adoption of biennial sessions of the Conference should not neces- sarily involve the reorganization of the Executive Board. He asked the Chairman to obtain the Com- mittee’s opinion upon that question. [15] Mr. SEBASTIAN (Philippines) moved that the principle of biennial sessions should be discussed first. In his view, it would not necessarily lead to any reorganization of the Executive Board. If the principle of biennial sessions were approved, the Committee could then discuss whether it would be necessary to reorganize the Executive Board. [16] Mgr. MAROUN (Lebanon) said that, as he had indicated at the previous meeting, the two prob- lems of biennial sessions and the structure of the Board were closely linked. It seemed to him im- possible to institute biennial sessions of the Confer- ence without altering the functioning of the Board, as the Conference and the Board were Unesco’s two main organs. For that reason, he agreed with the COMMITTEE X-6 delegations which wished the Committee first to discuss the structure of the Board; any decision on biennial sessions would depend upon the result of that discussion. [17] Mr. SEYDOUX (France) also thought that the two questions were closely linked, as was shown by the suggestions made by several delegations in their replies to Unesco’s questionnaire. Despite broad agreement on the biennial principle, it was clear that many delegates would hesitate to vote in favour of it, unless they received assurances that the status of the Executive Board would remain unchanged. That position on the two aspects was well expressed in the Swiss proposal (document 6C/DR/40); a vote on that proposal would solve both the question of the Board's structure and that of biennial sessions, at one and the same time. [18] Mr. MAMELI (Italy) considered the two ques- tions closely connected, but suggested that that of biennial sessions should be discussed first. [19] Mr. MONTANER (Uruguay) supported the opinions and arguments put forward by the dele- gates in favour of the adoption of the biennial system. [20] With regard to the reorganization of the Ex- ecutive Board's structure, the Uruguayan delegate felt that the existing structure of the Board was in keeping with Unesco’s international character, since its members enjoyed the independence essential if they were to devote themselves in full freedom to the Organization’s work. Only if the members of the Executive Board owed their first loyalty to the Organization and not to their respective Govern- ments could Unesco preserve its true character. He was in favour of the adoption of the system of biennial sessions and the maintenance of the existing structure of the Executive Board. [21] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) agreed with the French delegation that the Committee should vote at once on the Swiss resolution (docu- ment 6C/DR/40). He understood that resolution to mean that the General Conference agreed to hold ordinary sessions every two years, without prejudice to the structure or functions of the Board. Thus, it would be possible to accept the principle of biennial conferences, while leaving open any question regard- ing the structure or functions of the Board. [22] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained that the wording of the French text (“sans modifier pour autant . . .”) clearly meant that the structure and functions of the Board were to remain unchanged. [23] Continuing, Sir John MAUD (United King- dom) said that he understood that the position of the Australian delegation was that the principle of      X-6 PROCEDURE biennial conferences should not be adopted without a change in the functions of the Board; that dele- gation would therefore vote against the Swiss reso- lution. He himself, on the other hand, believed that it was possible to vote in favour of biennial sessions of the Conference and still leave open the question of the Executive Board. He wished to make it clear that, while the United Kingdom delegation con- sidered that changes should be made in the structure and functions of the Board in due course, it would be proper, at the stage so far reached, to accept biennial conferences without asking the General Conference to decide what those changes should be. The United Kingdom delegation would vote in favour of the Swiss resolution. If the resolution were adopted, he would then ask the Committee to consider paragraph (2) of the United Kingdom resolution, inviting “the Director-General and the Executive Board to examine” the question, so that at a later stage the General Conference might be able to take a decision on that issue. [24] Mr. CATES (United States of America) re- affirmed his point of view. The two parts of the United Kingdom resolution should be voted on separately, the one after the other. [25] Mr. SELFE (Union of South Africa) agreed with the United States delegate and formally seconded his proposal. [26] Mr. SEYDOUX (France) agreed with the United Kingdom delegate that the Committee should first vote on the Swiss resolution. With regard to Sir John Maud’s interpretation of the resolution, however, he pointed out that the French text of the Swiss draft resolution (document 6C/DR/40) was quite clear and it would be well that the English- speaking delegates should realize its exact meaning before voting upon it. [27] Mr. ILLUECA (Panama) said that it was of the greatest importance for the future of Unesco that the existing structure of the Executive Board should be preserved. If the adoption of biennial Confer- ences necessarily involved a change in the structure of the Executive Board, the Panamanian delegation would not vote in favour of it. Mr. Illueca agreed with those delegates who wished to vote first on the Swiss delegation’s draft resolution that ordinary ses- sions should be held every two years without thereby altering the existing structure or manner of election of the Executive Board. In favour of pre- serving the existing structure of the Board, Mr. Illueca pointed out that the proposed change would be in complete contradiction to the San Fran- cisco Charter, since the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies were based on the principle of representing peoples, not governments. In his opinion, the reorganization of the Executive Board CNTY TES 706 would change it into a body representing nothing but the Governments of a certain number of countries. [28] Mr. PIAGET (Switzerland) thought it would be wise to cut short the discussion. Since the deci- sion taken on the Board's structure would affect the votes of several delegations on the biennial question, it seemed preferable not to separate the two ques- tions, but to take a vote on the Swiss draft reso- lution, as the United Kingdom and French delegates had suggested. [29] Mr. TREJOS DITTEL (Costa Rica) seconded that proposal. [30] Mr. CATES (United States of America) said that, if there was agreement on the separation of the two questions, the Swiss and Cuban resolutions could not be taken. A vote should be taken first on the United States amendment and then on the United Kingdom text. [31] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) under- stood the Philippine delegation to have suggested that the Committee should vote forthwith on the question whether the two issues of biennial Con- ferences and a change in the structure of the Board should be taken together or separately. That motion had been properly seconded by the United States delegation and the Committee should therefore vote upon it. If it decided in favour of separation, it would then be able to discuss which of the two questions should be examined first. [32] The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the proposal that the question of biennial Conferences and that of the structure of the Executive Board should be dis- cussed separately. [33] It was adopted by 29 votes to 13, with 1 ab- stention. [34] The CHAIRMANsaid that the Committee then had to decide which of the two questions to be dis- cussed separately should be dealt with first. [35] Mr. SEYDOUX (France) observed that a large number of delegations might either vote against the biennial principle or abstain from voting, unless they first received guarantees that the existing status of the Executive Board would remain unchanged. For that reason he suggested that the Committee should first vote on the maintenance of that status, after which it would no doubt be easy to obtain the unanimous vote desired by the United Kingdom on the question of biennial sessions. [36] Mr. ILLUECA (Panama) said that, in his view, the structure of the Executive Board should > — е н o o   — A — — ا ل س س س ‎ а — — ] — t i t , e t e t —
5 I re! ec [3 fo. on mé rea [4 toc res [44 wil twa sep sio] the tha Uni am
(2) Boa the or | sho repc [45 the ecu Ger
707 PROCEDURE be discussed first, as the votes of many delegations on the whole problem would depend largely on the result of the discussion on the structure of the Ex- ecutive Board. [37] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out that, for the moment, the Committee was called upon to decide, not on a question of substance, but simply on one of procedure, concerning the order in which matters should be dealt with. [38] Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) suggested amending the Swiss draft resolution (document 6C/DR/40), so as to read “and to maintain the functions of the Executive Board, as defined in Article V, para- graph 11, of the Constitution”. [39] TAHA HUSSEIN Pasha (Egypt) supported the French delegation’s proposal that the Committee should discuss the question of the Board's structure before that of biennial sessions. If it were not reassured about the Board's structure, the Egyptian delegation would vote against biennial sessions. [40] Mr. de SPOT (Belgium) agreed with' the Egyptian delegation that the Committee should first discuss the Board’s structure. [41] The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the proposal that the Committee should first discuss the question of the Executive Board's structure. [42] The proposal was adopted by 27 votes to 17, with 1 abstention. [43] Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) again took up the proposal that the Swiss delegation’s draft resolution should be immediately voted upon. [44] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) disagreed with that proposal. The Committee had adopted two decisions: firstly, to take the two questions separately; and, secondly, to discuss the structure of the Board before the principle of biennial ses- sions. It had, therefore, to discuss the question of the Board and, in consequence, Sir John suggested that it should consider paragraph (2) of the United Kingdom resolution (document 6C/DR/49), amended to read:
(2) Invites the Director-General and the Executive Board to examine, in consultation with Member States, the question whether any changes in the Constitution or procedure of the Organization should be made and, should the principle of biennial sessions be accepted, to report to a later session of the General Conference. [45] That would mean that, for the time being, there would be no change in the structure of the Ex- ecutive Board, but that in due course the Director- General would bring before the General Conference COMMITTEE X-6 the results of his investigation into the desirability of any changes. [46] That was all that should be attempted at that stage. Sir John Maud was not asking for any deci- sion on the form of the changes which might be necessary; he was only trying to make it possible for the Director-General and the Executive Board to discover what changes would be useful, if the Com- mittee voted in favour of biennial sessions. If it decided against the principle of biennial sessions, no enquiry into the structure of the Board would be necessary; it would, therefore, be superfluous to discuss detailed changes at that point. [47] Mr. PIAGET (Switzerland) admired the skill of the United Kingdom delegate, who, aware that there was a large majority against any changes in the structure of the Board, wished to see the second part of his draft resolution (document 6C/DR/49) adopted, providing for the consideration of such changes, in the hope that his arguments would have more chance of success the following year. [48] With the object of taking all necessary pre- cautions against a possible modification of the Board’s structure, the Swiss representative asked that, as the first step, the second part of the Cuban delegation’s resolution (document 6C/DR/42) (“that no such change is advisable”) should be put to the vote. [49] Mr. BLANCO (Cuba) said that, as the Swiss representative had covered the point he himself wished to make, he would merely ask the Chairman to put to the vote the question of reorganizing the Executive Board. [560] Mr. SEYDOUX (France) said that the United Kingdom delegate’s last speech justified the fears of the French delegation with regard to the con- sequences of biennial sessions. He asked the Com- mittee to vote on the second part of the Swiss draft resolution (document 6C/DR/40), amended as follows: The General Conference Resolves that, should the principle of biennial sessions be adopted, there shall not for that reason be any alteration made in the present structure or manner of election of the Executive Board, nor in the functions of the Board as defined in Article V, paragraph 11, of the Constitution. [51] Mr. SEBASTIAN (Philippines) was prepared to support paragraph (2) of the United Kingdom resolution. He thought it advisable to ascertain the views of National Commissions and Member States before deciding whether a reorganization of the Ex- ecutive Board was desirable. The structure of the Board would remain unaltered during the coming year notwithstanding any decision the Committee might reach; that period should be used to study    X-6 PROCEDE the possible effects of any changes which might be made. [52] Mr. de SPOT (Belgium) felt that a distinction should be made between the question of the Ex- ecutive Board’s competence and that of its structure. The adoption of the biennial principle would of necessity mean an increase in the powers and com- petence of the Executive Board; but that did not mean, in the Belgian delegation’s view, that any change should therefore be made in the way in which members of the Board were appointed. For that reason the Belgian delegation supported the French proposal that the Committee should then and there state that no change should be made in the structure of the Executive Board; but the dele- gation also thought that the Director-General should be requested to study the problem of the powers to be delegated to the Board, should biennial sessions be adopted. [53] Mr. CATES (United States of America) sup- ported the views of the Philippine representative. Even a resolution not to change the structure of the Board would be tantamount to a decision affecting the Board, and on that matter delegates had no instructions. They were, therefore, unable to vote upon the Cuban resolution (document 6C/DR/42). Mr. Cates was satisfied with paragraph (2) of the United Kingdom resolution, but would prefer it without the words: “should the principle of bien- nial sessions be accepted”. He considered that the Committee should vote at once upon paragraph (2) of the United Kingdom resolution and added that his delegation would vote for its adoption. [54] Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) re- marked that, if the necessary two-thirds majority was to be obtained for the principle of biennial ses- sions, delegates would first have to be assured that it would not necessarily involve a change in the Board's structure. The Committee should therefore adopt a definite position on that matter, a course which would in no way prevent the question’s being considered afresh at a later session. [55] Mr. LHÉRISSON (Haiti) proposed that the Swiss draft resolution (document 6C/DR/40) should be amended as follows:
(1) That no change shall be made either in the existing structure or in the existing manner of election of the Executive Board, or in the functions of the Board as defined in Article V, paragraph 11, of the Constitution;
(2) That the General Conference shall hold its ordinary sessions every two years. [56] Mr. STONE (Australia), speaking in favour of paragraph (2) of the United Kingdom resolution, felt that new aspects of the possible constitutional changes contemplated had been disclosed during the
708COMMITTEE debate and that delegations were not in a position to vote: amendments to the Constitution during the current session. To take decisions regarding the Ex- ecutive Board forthwith would, therefore, show undue haste. [57] Mr. STEPHENS (Canada) stated that, al though his delegation would prefer more positive action, he would support paragraph (2) of the United Kingdom resolution, in the hope that further reflection would lead Member States to make the changes which he considered esential. [58] Mr. QUDRAT-E-KHUDA (Pakistan) con- sidered that, if the Committee accepted the principle of biennial sessions, considerable changes in the structure of the Executive Board would be inevitable. Some alteration would probably also be necessary in the terms of membership. He felt that the matter should be left to the Director-General; it would be unfortunate if the Committee were to accept the French resolution and thus preclude any enquiry. [59] Mr. SELFE (Union of South Africa) believed that the French resolution would compel the current session of the General Conference to take a decision on a matter where there was still room for further study. His delegation would, therefore, vote in favour of paragraph (2) of the United Kingdom resolution. [60] Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) supported the French delegation’s proposal which, he thought, accurately reflected the views of several delegations. In opposition to the United Kingdom draft resolu- tion, which seemed to contain an undertaking to change the Board’s structure at some future date, the Lebanese delegation wished to state the contrary intention explicitly by amending the text of the Swiss resolution (document 6C/DR/40); the negative phrase “sans modifier” should be replaced by the positive words “en maintenant”, and the words “pour autant” should be deleted. [61] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL, replying to the Belgian delegate’s remark regarding the inevitable extension of the Board’s powers if biennial sessions were decided upon, pointed out that the Swiss draft resolution referred only to those functions of the Executive Board covered by Article V, paragraph 11, of the Constitution. [62] If the Committee adopted the principle of biennial sessions of the Conference, it would doubt- less then be advisable to set up a small working party to consider the repercussions of such a decision on the Board’s powers, as well as on the form of the Budget and the Programme. [63] Mr. CAMPBELL (New Zealand) urged that the ” = — — — d — _ — — — — — ي+ ي — —a — > . ا» ل س "
709 PROCEDURE Committee should vote forthwith on paragraph (2) of the United Kingdom resolution without Sir John Maud's later amendment. Those who were against any change in the structure of the Executive Board might well benefit from an enquiry, since there were clearly many delegations which, though decided upon the question of biennial sessions, had an open mind with regard to the constitutional issue. [64] Mr. de SPOT (Belgium) pointed out that the distinction between the Board’s powers and func- tions, on the one hand, and its structure, on the SEVENTH COMMITTEE X-7 other, was fundamental. The United Kingdom draft resolution affected both the functions and structure of the Board; the Swiss resolution debarred only structural changes, while doubtless permitting a change in powers. The Belgian delegation there- fore favoured the Swiss and the French proposals. [66] On the proposal of Mr. SEYDOUX (France), the discussion was adjourned to the meeting to be held that afternoon. The meeting rose at 1 p.m. MEETING Tuesday, 26 June 1951, at 3.30 p.m. Chairman: Mr. TEvrik SAGLAM (Turkey) Report by the Director-General on the Change in Periodicity of Sessions of the General Con- ference (continuation) (document 6C/PRO/7 and Addenda). [1] The CHAIRMAN requested the Committee to take a decision on the draft resolution (document
6C/DR/40) submitted by the Swiss delegation at the previous meeting and amended by the French dele- gation with the Lebanese delegation's suggestions in mind. [2] The suggested text read as follows: The General Conference Resolves,if the principle of biennial sessions is adopted, to maintain the existing structure and manner of election of the Executive Board and the functions of the Board as defined in Article V, paragraph 11, of the Constitution. [3] Mr. MAMELI (Italy) raised a point of order: his impression was that, at the morning meeting, it had been decided to deal separately with the question of biennial sessions and that of the Board’s Structure. [4] The CHAIRMAN replied that the proposed re- solutions was in full conformity with decisions taken at the previous meeting. [5] The resolution was adopted by 23 votes to 16, with 2 abstentions. [6] The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the revised second paragraph of the draft resolution submitted by the United Kingdom delegation (document 6C/ DR/56), reading as follows: The Commission recommends that the General Con- ference, if the principle of biennial sessions is accepted and the Constitution is amended accordingly, invite the Director-General and the Executive Board to examine, in consultation with Member States the question whether any other changes in- the Constitution or procedure of the Organization should be made and to report on this matter to a later session of the General Conference. [7] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) ‘said that he had felt obliged to vote against the Swiss re- solution but, since it had been carried by a sub- stantial majority, he was perfectly willing to agree with the definite view expressed by the Conference that the existing structure and functions of the Ex- ecutive Board should remain unchanged. The United Kingdom resolution before the meeting was, however, perfectly consistent with the decision just taken. He did not see what possible objection there could be to the suggestion that the Director- General, in consultation with the Executive Board, Member States and National Commissions, should carry out an enquiry to ascertain whether, in the event of the principle of biennial sessions of the General Conference being adopted, it would be advisable to make certain changes in the Constitution and procedures of the Organization. It was quite wrong to assume that the aim of the United King- dom resolution was to secure a change in the Board's