VI-9 OFFICIAL AND [66] Mr. MORISSEAU LEROY (Haiti), in answer to remarks by the representatives of the United States of America, Australia and Mexico, said that, in the resolution the Commission had just adopted, the Director-General was asked “to make provision in the budget for 1953 and 1954 for such funds as may be required for the creation or development” of the regional offices. But the only existing office was that at Havana, and it therefore seemed logical to mention future budgets in the resolution relating more particularly to that office. [67] The CHAIRMAN asked the Commission to take a decision on the additional paragraph proposed by the Haitian delegation. [68] The additional paragraph was rejected by
16 votes to 9, with 3: abstentions. [69] The whole of the resolution (document 6C/ OXR/17, Annex II) was adopted by 25 votes without opposition, and with 3 abstentions. Consideration of the Recommendations of the First Regional Conference of National Commis- sions of the Western Hemisphere. Item 10.4.4 of the Agenda (document 6C/OXR/15). [70] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations EXTERNAL RELATIONS Service), representing the Director-General, thought that the Commission, after taking formal decisions on the two preceding items of the Agenda, would wish to take note of the Director-General's report on the recommendations of the Havana Conference. [71] The Commission took note of the Director- General's report (document 6C/OXR/15). [72] Mr. CHEDIAK (Cuba) requested that, at the beginning of the afternoon meeting, the last two items of the Agenda concerning the Regional Office at Havana should be re-examined, as they had not been fully discussed. [73] Mr. ILLUECA (Panama) seconded the remarks of the Cuban delegate and said that he wished to present a formal proposal on the subject at the next meeting. [74] The CHAIRMAN, observing that the last two items of the Agenda concerning the Regional Office and the Regional Conference at Havana had been fully discussed at the current meeting, declared the dis- cussion closed, subject to the right of the Cuban and Havana delegates to ask the Commission to re-open the discussion. The meeting rose at 1.5 p.m. NINTH MEETING Friday, 6 July 1951, at 74.30 p.m. Chairman: Mr. F. G. Mamerr (Italy) Development of a 20-year Programme for Achieving Peace through the United Nations (document 26/EX/43). Draft Resolution Sub- mitted by the Executive Board (document
6C/DR/82). [1] The CHAIRMAN drew attention to document
26 EX/43, which explained the origins of the proposal before the Commission. [2] Mr. BERKELEY (Deputy Head, External Re- lations Service) explained that on 6 June 1950 the Secretary-General of the United Nations had circu- lated to all Members a 10-point memorandum regarding the development of a 20-year programme for achieving peace through the United Nations. Three of those 10 points (numbers 6, 7 and 8) were of particular interest to the Specialized Agencies. Annex I of document 26 EX/43 con- tained the resolution on those points which the Economic and Social Council had adopted on
20 March 1951 to call the attention of the Special ized Agencies to the Secretary-General's memoran- dum. Detailed comments on the three points were contained in Annex III. Document 6C/DR/82 was a draft resolution submitted by the Executive Board in compliance with the request of the Economic and Social Council. Thelast two paragraphs of the docu-
437 OREA NED ment contained affirmations of intended specific action by Unesco, the last paragraph being almost a repetition of the Secretary-General's own words. [3] Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) suggested two al- terations in the French translation of the English text. [4] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) remarked that document 6C/DR/82 was clearly designed to deal with the points in the Secretary-General's memorandum most nearly affecting Unesco. He proposed that the Commission should adopt the resolution in principle, leaving it to a working committee presided over by the Chairman to har- monize the English, French and Spanish versions of the document. He considered, meanwhile, that the last paragraph was unfortunate in that Unesco should not need to make affirmations regarding its membership of the United Nations family, but should concentrate on its task as a memberof that family. There was also some impropriety in re- ferring to the aspirations of Unesco's founders; it would be better to refer to the objectives mentioned in the Constitution. He therefore moved that the last paragraph of the resolution should be amended to read: affirms its conviction that Unesco, together with the other Specialized Agencies and United Nations itself, will fully achieve the objectives stated in its Constitution only when it enjoys the active collaboration and support of all nations in its work. [5] In reply to the Chairman, Sir John explained that it was his intention both to move the amend- ment and to give notice that the United Kingdom delegation would then accept the whole resolution as amended. [6] Mr. LUCET (France) thought that, since the maintenance of peace and the technical assistance programme were already listed among Unesco’s concerns there was no objection to considering the resolution. Nevertheless, he thought Sir John’s remarks were to the point, and advised the Com- mission to bear them in mind. [7] Mr. de CLEMENTI (Italy) agreed with the first proposal of the United Kingdom delegate. Without formally opposing the second, which called for the deletion of the first part of the fifth para- graph, Mr. de Clementi could not see why Unesco should not thereby reaffirm its membership of the family of the United Nations and Specialized Agencies. [8] Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) thought that, as not all countries in the world were Members of Unesco, the latter was undertaking a heavy responsibility in EXTERNAL KELL AT ONS VI-9 proposing once and for all “to eliminate human suffering”. He suggested that that rather ambitious statement should be omitted, and that reference should be made only to the aims defined in Unesco’s Constitution, without enumerating them. [9] Mr. CATES (United States of America) con- sidered that a reaffirmation of Unesco’s convictions would be of the greatest value. With regard to the United Kingdom amendment, he would wish to delete any reference to the other Specialized Agencies and to concentrate the last paragraph of document 6C/DR/82 upon Unesco’s own work. He would submit a resolution embodying that point of view. Furthermore, the resolution as drafted only mentioned two of the Secretary-General’s three points. He would therefore move that to the last paragraph should be added the words: and further, that it recognizes the necessity of con- centrating its available resources on tasks of primary importance and significance. Anything the Commission could do to bring about that concentration through the instrumentality of such a clause would benefit not only Unesco but the United Nations as a whole. [10] Mr. de ALBA (Mexico) agreed in principle that Unesco should support the endeavours of the United Nations to give effect to the 20-year pro- gramme for peace; in his opinion, however, the document presented for the purpose by the Ex- ecutive Board was rhetorical and imprecise. The document should be clearer, and should explain in concrete terms what was the object in view. Recalling that the programme for the maintenance of peace had been severely criticized when first submitted by the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. de Alba said that it was of supreme importance that the Specialized Agencies should give the United Nations all possible help through sug- gestions and concrete information. The draft re- solution before the Commission introduced no new element, and was merely a collection of good inten- tions floating in thin air. Incidentally, the Spanish wording of the draft resolution in question was far from satisfactory to the Mexican delegation. The document presented to the Commission by the Ex- ecutive Board should be differently focussed and worded. [11] Mr. GROS (United Nations) thanked the Commission for its careful study of the programme submitted by the Secretary-General of the United Nations. The last paragraph of document 6C/DR/
82 was an almost direct quotation of the text pro- posed by the Secretary-General; the project had originated in May 1950.    VI-9 60 ‎يا10مال [12] Mr. Gros considered that, as had been stated by the Italian delegate, Unesco could do no harm in recalling its membership of the United Nations family, nor in reaffirming that it was acting jointly with the other Specialized Agencies, especially when the question at issue was a peace programme calling for close co-operation between all the Organizations. He also thought it essential to include in such a resolution some reference to unqualified support from the governments of Member States, as well as an affirmation of the desire to become a world-wide organization. [13] The CHAIRMAN proposed that a small draft- ing committee should be appointed to prepare a draft resolution in the three working languages, taking into account the various formal amendments which had been made. [14] Agreed. [15] The CHAIRMAN proposed that the committee should consist of the delegates of the United Kingdom, France, Mexico and the United States of America. [16] Agreed. [17] Turning to the substance of the resolution, the CHAIRMAN suggested that the United Kingdom delegate’s proposal, which seemed furthest from the original text, should be examined first. [18] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) accepted the suggestion of the United States delegation regarding the inclusion of a statement on the con- centration of resources, but thought that the proper place for such a statement was at the end of para- graph 3. [19] In reply to the CHAIRMAN, Mr. CATES (United States of America) withdrew his objection to the mention of other members of the United Nations family, and thus brought his first proposal in line with that of the United Kingdom. [20] Mr. LUCET (France) could not agree with the amendment proposed by the United States dele- gate. It did not seem to him necessary, in the draft resolution, to define Unesco’s principle objec- tives, as he feared that to mention—as had been proposed—the maintenance of peace, technical assistance and propaganda for Human Rights, might imply that those were the Organization’s only major activities. [21] Mr. CHAVES (Ecuador) agreed with the ideas put forward by the French delegate, believing that Unesco's objectives went beyond the mere main- tenance of peace, and also that the very nature of ETERNAL RE LAT:ONES 438 Unesco's work precluded its efforts from being hampered. His delegation would vote against the document presented by the Executive Board. [22] Mr. CATES (United States of America) felt that his amendment did not carry the implication which was the cause of the French delegation's objection. He was prepared to insert his phrase at any place in the resolution that would allay that delegation’s fears regarding an over-concentration of Unesco’s resources on a limited number of tasks. [23] Mr. ZEREGA FOMBONA (Venezuela) hoped that the French delegation would bear in mind the clarification given by the United States delegate and take a definite stand on the question. [24] In reply to a question from the CHAIRMAN, Mr. LUCET (France) regretted that the arguments of the United States delegate had failed to convince him. He would, however, merely abstain from voting on the United States proposal. [25] Mr. AGO (Italy) saw no occasion for the re- solution to affirm the need to concentrate Unesco's activities on certain tasks of primary importance. The scheme had in fact nothing to do with Unesco's programme, nor with the order of priority of the various parts of that programme. If such an affirma- tion were included after the project of the United Nations Secretary-General had been examined, it might give the impression that it was that project which had induced Unesco to concentrate its pro- gramme. [26] Mr. EUSTATHIADES (Greece) thought that the Commission needed to decide on the character of the resolution submitted to it. Was it to be con- sidered merely as a gesture, a theoretical declaration of a general nature, or as a definite programme to be carried out by Unesco? In the latter case, the United States proposal should be retained. Person- ally, Mr. Eustathiades, like the Mexican delegate, thought it would be useful to make the resolution more precise. [27] In reply to a question from the CHAIRMAN, Mr. EUSTATHIADES added that the question should be considered from both the programme and the budget aspects. [28] Mr. BERKELEY (Deputy Head, External Re lations Service) explained, in reply to the Greek delegate, that the resolution had no impact either on the programme or on the budget. It was thus no more than a gesture, but he hoped that it would be a gesture with a punch behind it. The intention of the resolution was to comply with the wishes of the Economic and Social Council that the matter should be considered by the Specialized Agencies. The Secretary-General of the United Nations would report    OFFICIAL AND to the next meeting of the General Assembly on the work done under the 10 points; among the results he would mention would be the co-operation given by Unesco. [29] On the suggestion of Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) the Commission voted first on the United Kingdom amendment and then on the United States amendment. [30] Both amendments were adopted. [31] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) wished the Commission to vote on the amended draft as a whole, and thus to empower the Drafting Committee to prepare a text for submission to the Conference in plenary meeting without reference back to the Com- mission. [32] That suggestion was approved. [33] The resolution, as amended, was adopted. Consideration of the Recommendations Sub- mitted to Unesco by the Representatives of National Commissions of the Western Hemi- sphere at their First Meeting in Havana (Item
10.4.4 of the Agenda) (documents 6C/OXR/3 and
6C/OXR/15). [34] Mr. ILLUECA (Panama) stated that his country, which had a strong democratic tradition, was proud that one of its citizens, Dr. Octavio Mendez Pereira, Rector of Panama University, had been appointed Director of Unesco's Regional Office in the Western Hemisphere. That Office had done a great job in disseminating Unesco's ideals and those of the United Nations, as well as the principles of fundamental education. [35] The delegate of Panama reminded the Com- mission of the decisions taken at the first Regional Conference of National Commissions of the Western Hemisphere, and said that, while he had no intention of putting forward a concrete resolution on the recommendations issued by the First Regional Con- ference, for that might imply additional expenditure, he wished to give expression to the feelings and aspirations of the Latin American peoples. He therefore asked that the endeavours to extend and intensify the work of Unesco's Regional Office in the Western Hemisphere should be continued. The Office had only a very small staff with which to carry out the tasks assigned to it, and Mr. Illueca asked that the next Session of the General Conference should give special attention to the extension of that Office. [35] In the name of Mr. Mendez Pereira, Mr. Illueca thanked the Director-General and the Executive Board, as well as all the staff, for the admirable help EXTERN NAT VI-9RELATIONS given to him while he was Director of the Havana Office. One of the recommendations made by Mr. Mendez Pereira when he resumed his work as Rector of Panama University had been that Unesco's Regional Office in the Western Hemisphere should be given a greater radius of action and be better co- ordinated. [37] Mr. Illueca concluded by expressing his thanks to the Cuban Government and National Commission for their excellent work on behalf of Unesco's Regional Office in Havana. [38] Mr. CHEDIAK (Cuba) agreed with the dele- gate of Panama and said thatall the Latin American delegates would be very glad to hear from the Director-General's representative what Unesco's work in the Western Hemisphere would mean in concrete terms, and howfar the resolutions adopted by the First Regional Conference of National Commissions of the Western Hemisphere would be respected and implemented. [39] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations Service) said that, together with the text of the resolutions adopted at the Havana. Regional Confer- ence, document 6C/OXR/15 contained a survey of the steps taken to implement those resolutions which applied to Unesco's Secretariat [40] The resolutions addressed to Member States or National Commissions had been transmitted to the relevant Governments. Peru and Mexico had already taken steps to strengthen their National Com- missions. No information had yet been received from the States of the Western Hemisphere relating to the recommendation that Governments should supply the funds needed for the operation of National Commissions. [41] Referring to Resolution II A.2 of the Havana Conference, Mr. de Blonay drew the Cuban delegate's attention to document 6C/OXR/3, which gave an account of the action taken by the Director-General to provide the Regional Office in Cuba with a pro- gramme specialist on libraries and bibliography, and another on exchange of persons. Budgetary limitations had prevented the Director-General from doing more that year, but the Regional Office would nevertheless be gradually developed as time went on. As for the recommentation on co-operation with the Organization of American States, Mr. de Blonay said that the Havana Office would have to remain within the framework of the functions laid down by the Executive Board, as set out on page 3 of document
6C/OXR/3. [42] As to the recommendation dealing with co- operation between the Havana Office and the Field Science Co-operation Office of Montevideo, Mr de Blonaystated that there was such co-operation every time the Havana Office had a scientific problem to contend with. In addition to strengthening the Office    VI-10 OFT DA ANT itself, Unesco was trying to apply concrete technical measures. A seminar would be held at Havana in the autumn, organized by the Regional Office, in co- operation with Unesco. The latter would send three professors to directit. [43] In conclusion, Mr. de Blonay assured the Cuban delegate that Unesco was trying to carry out the resolutions of the Havana Regional Conference, as he could see for himself by reading document 6C/ OXR/15. He was convinced that, in so far as regional conference made concrete proposals aimed EXTERNAL RELATIONS 440 at facilitating the execution of the programme in a given region, they were doing Unesco’s cause the greatest service. [44] The CHAIRMAN announced that the Com- mission had concluded its agenda. It had only to adopt the report to be presented to the General Con- ference. The report would be submitted to the Com- mission for approval on Monday, 9 July. The meeting rose at 6.35 p.m. TENTH MEETING Monday, 9 July 1951, at 10.30 a.m. Chairman: Mr. F. G. Mameri (Italy) Consideration of the Report of the Official and External Relations Commission to the General Conference (document 6C/OXR/18). [1] Mr. SARDJITO (Indonesia) (Rapporteur) sub- mitted the report to the Commission for approval. [2] The Commission agreed to take the report point by point. [3] The introductory paragraphs were adopted. Recommendations. CONSIDERATION OF RECOMMENDATIONS PRESENTED TO THE GENERAL CONFERENCE BY THE REPRESENTATIVES OF NATIONAL COMMISSIONS AT THEIR THIRD MEETING (docu- ment 6C/OXR/2 Rev.). [4] Adopted. General Recommendations. RECOMMENDATION I. [5] Mr. de CLEMENTI (ltaly) wished the first paragraph to read “with the active collaboration of their National Commissions” in order to emphasize that those bodies were the agents of Member States rather than of the Unesco Secretariat. [6] Mr. de ALBA (Mexico) supported that sug- gestion. [7] Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) was prepared to accept the amendment, although he thought that it might raise constitutional problems when the non-self-governing territories were admitted to associate membership. He wished to re-word the third paragraph to read: Through which the Commission can directly help to carry out the programme, by giving them pro- gressively greater responsibility and particularly by con- sulting them, as far as possible, in the choice of experts. [8] Mr. CATES (United States of America) and Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) supported that second amendment. [9] Both amendments were then approved. [10] It was agreed to substitute the word “Re- quests” for the word “Recommends” in the first line of the operative part of the resolution. [11] Recommendation I, as amended, was adopted. RECOMMENDATION II. [12] Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) proposed that line 2 of the first paragraph should read “which shall be responsible.”. .”. "He also proposed that line 3 of the second paragraph should read “. . . deals, to communicate them to the Secre- tariat”. E
00 > | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | tio: [18 inst att [19 ado Rec [20 ame Rec Con thei one Nati wor com [21] the repr the 1 close [22] adop REco [23] Gene Gene [24] adop: