11-4 PUENARY [115] It was Flaubert who said that “history, like the sea, is beautiful because of what it washes away”. I would not, for my part, accept that view without adding another: that history is beautiful mainly for what it confirms. And the history of our time will perhaps stand to the extent that it succeeds in fortifying man in his struggle against his worst enemies—the enemies within: selfishness, injustice, anger, and blind obstinacy. May we not be led, through scepticism and weariness, to think this noble struggle vain! In this struggle, ladies and gentlemen, the world counts on Unesco, and Unesco counts on you. MEETINGS 64 [116] The PRESIDENT — You show by your applause that our Director-General has again, in his own inevitable, eloquent language, touched our hearts and our most genuine human feelings, with his account of Unesco’s achievements in the current year and its plans for the year ahead. We are greatly indebted to the Director-General for the clarity as well as the eloquence with which he has described these plans to us. Our next item is the discussion of the Director-General’s report. If no Heads of delegations wish to speak on this topic at this morning’s meeting, we shall now adjourn. The meeting rose at 12.18 p.m. FOURTH PLENARY MEETING Tuesday, 19 June 1951, at 5.45 p.m. President: Mr. HOWLAND SARGEANT (United States of America) CONTENTS Report of the Nominations Committee TRI Establishment of Commissions and Committees . 64
64 Discussion of the Report of the Director-General. Speeches by the delegates of the Netherlands, Switzerland, Lebanon and Haiti. . 65 Report of the Nominations Committee. [1]. The "PRESIDENT The Fourth Plenary Meeting of the General Conference is now open. At the start of this afternoon’s business, I have pleasure in announcing that the payment made by the Government of Bolivia to the Director-General more than covers the contributions due for the years 1948 and 1949 as well as the deposit to the Working Capital Fund. As a result of this payment, Bolivia no longer falls under the provisions of Article IV.8b of the Constitution, and is therefore entitled to exercise its right to vote in this Conference. The Conference will be pleased to learn of this token of the interest which the Government of Bolivia attaches to the Organization. The next item of business is to receive the report of the Nominations Committee. I call upon Mr. Mañach, Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
(2] Mr. Jorge MANACH (Cuba), Chairman of the Nominations Committee — [Translation from the Spanish] afternoon Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, this the Nominations Committee decided on the following nominations for the officers of the Commissions and other subsidiary organs of the Conference: Programme Commission. Chairman: land. Vice-Chairmen: Pakistan; Mexico. teur: Haiti. Administrative Commission. gium. Vice-Chairmen: Peru; Sweden. Official Switzer- Rappor- Bel- Rapporteur: Chairman: Israel. Commission. New Zealand; and External Relations Chairman: Italy. Vice-Chairmen: Austria. Rapporteur: Indonesia. Procedure Committee. Chairman: Turkey. Chairmen: Iraq; Venezuela. Rapporteur: Committee on Reports of Member States. man: Philippines. Rapporteur: Greece. Vice- Ceylon. Chair- Vice-Chairmen: Syria; Liberia. Establishment of the Commissions and Com- mittees. [3] The PRESIDENT — I thank the Chairman of the Nominations Committee for his report. I now — . T I S ج ب I E E E r c g r    م س ب ` J E ب ا ك ج ا ‎ i T T o h T e т е н = е е е e m
65 PLENARYŸ call to the attention of the Plenary Meeting of the General Conference that, having heard the report of the Nominations Committee, we are in a position to establish the remaining commissions and committees of the General Conference. I would remind you that each committee and commission is free to elect its own Officers, including Chairman, Vice- Chairman and Rapporteur, in accordance with Rule 47 of the Rules of Procedure. Accordingly, 1 suggest that we now break off to hold a short meeting of the Procedure Committee, and sub- sequently of the other three commissions. Each will merely be required to approve the office of Chairman, since the Vice-Chairmen and Rappor- teurs of these bodies can be appointed at their later meetings. We thus come to Item 6 of the Agenda: Establishment of the Procedure Committee and election of its Chairman. Accordingly we will now resolve ourselves into a meeting of the Procedure Committee. The meeting adjourned for a few minutes. Discussion of the Director-General's Report. [4] The PRESIDENT — We may now resume the discussion initiated this morning by the addresses of the Chairman of the Executive Board and of the Director-General. Several delegations have requested to be heard-this afternoon. May I remind all dele- gates of the proposal previously circulated to them and strongly supported by the General Committee that, in discussing the programme in these plenary meetings, each should limit his address to 15 mi- nutes. We have now become so large an organi- zation that some kind of limitation of this sort is obviously necessary, if we are to complete the very heavy agenda of this Conference. So, with the permission of the General Conference, I will attempt to an equitable, and I hope, a completely un- obtrusive way, to enforce this decision of the General Committee, which T am sure we shall all do our best to respect. The delegation of the Netherlands is the first that has requested to be heard this afternoon and I call upon that country’s distinguished Minis- ter of Education, Dr. Rutten. [5] Mr. F. J. RUTTEN (Netherlands) — [Trans- lation from the French] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, this Conference opens at a time when the nations tend to be fully occupied with political tensions and economic difficulties. For that very reason it must, more than ever, represent a testimony and a promise, a testimony to the paramountcy of man in our eyes and a promise that all our en- deavours, in military and economic as well as in social and cultural affairs, will be directed to the preservation of that paramountcy. It is our pri- vilege to deal with these high matters of concern to the human community, but that privilege is MEETINGS 11-4 matched by heavy responsibilities. We want Unesco to be the conscience of the governments, asserting ‘the need to maintain and develop the spiritual heritage of mankind. [6] Reading the Director-General's annual report, we were glad to see that Unesco's programme is constantly becoming more practical. We trust that this trend will be still more marked in the future and that, at its current session, the Conference will avoid the snares of a vague and visionary idealism, and set the Secretariat a clear and striking example of concision and moderation. [7] In view of the evident need for international collaboration in education, science and culture, and of the serious economic situation of the world, the Netherlands delegation is prepared, in the forth- coming period, to accord Unesco the same financial support as it has done in the past. It reserves the right, however, to make certain practical sugges- tions for division of the available resources between the different items in the programme. [8] We think the méasures for decentralization suggested in several of the working papers of this Conference are excellent. We believe that these measures will not only make the programme more practical and less costly but will also bear out the principle that in international work collaboration can be fruitful only if it is founded on a rich diversity and individuality in those collaborating. [9] My delegation is prepared to support to the full the special projects proposed for the various parts of the world, but it considers that, in Europe, its first duty is to secure ever and more active col- laboration with its nearest geographical and cultural neighbours. In fact, the most direct—and some- times the most difficult—contribution we each can make to universal understanding is to collaborate on frank and friendly terms with our neighbours on either side. The implementation of the bilateral agreements my Government has concluded, and broader collaboration in the Benelux system, the Brussels Treaty and the Council of Europe, must occupy our attention in the first place. Relations between Unesco and the Council should be thorough- ly considered, with the object of securing working contacts between both organizations and effective mutual support. [10] We are quite aware that Unesco's activities can hardly be completely divorced from all political influence. But the Netherlands delegation feels obliged to warn the Conference against the danger of using the Organization for political ends, which would divert it from its fundamental cultural re- sponsibilities and deprive it of its moral prestige. [11] T do not wish, Mr. President, to take up more of the Conference’s time. My delegation is pre- pared to discuss the many items of the agenda with the other delegates, in the hope of helping effectively to achieve the high aims we have in view. I am thankful to see that the programme before this
114 PLENA DY Conference advocates work along the lines I have indicated. It rests with us to make it effective and to mark out the Organization's future policy in a spirit of confidence, idealism and realism. [12] The PRESIDENT — On behalf of this General Conference I thank the distinguished Head of the delegation of the Netherlands for his remarks. I also congratulate him for remaining so well within the 15 minutes allotted to him. I now call upon Professor Piaget, Head of the delegation of Switzer- land and well known to many of us at this Con- ference. [13] Mr. PIAGET (Switzerland) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, ladies and gentle- men, I shall confine myself to a few observations. The report our Director-General submitted to us this morning is an excellent document, first and foremost because it shows a whole series of practical activities which have been accomplished by Unesco. Unesco can no longer be accused of merely framing projects; there can be no further question about what Unesco does. We can point to its activities; they are tangible and they have been admirably described in this report. Secondly, the report is striking—and we must all have been conscious of this when listening to our Director-General this morningbecause it is a report written by a man who believes in what he is doing, who believes what he is saying, a man who has faith in his mission. This is a quality which is rare, too rare, today. And [ am glad to draw attention to it; it is, I believe, the secret of the good effect of Unesco’s work. [14] I shall say nothing about the programme for
1952 which we are supposed to discuss together with the Director-General’s report, since you have done me the honour to elect me Chairman of the Pro- gramme Commission; I cannot say that the pro- gramme is excellent, for that would be out of keep- ing with my impartiality as Chairman. I shall simply say that the Board has worked on it with what I might almost describe as loving care and, in the Board’s view, this programme for 1952 is, having regard to the resources available to us, the best programme possible; I make this mention of our resources because, if they were larger, full as this programme is, we should be forced to regard it as incomplete and to provide for an expansion of it which seems to me to be necessary. [15] As a special programme, accessory to the gen- eral programme, the Director-General has proposed an excellent scheme, providing not only for the fundamental education centre which has just been set up in Mexico but for a network of similar centres throughout the world. If this scheme is success- fully carried out, it will certainly represent one of the finest achievements of the Specialized Agencies of the United Nations. In my opinion, however, this scheme merely marks a beginning, and we need to i MEETINGS 66 give thought now to the question of a centre and, perhaps later, a network of centres, for international education; education for international understanding is the focal point of all Unesco’s projects, and sooner or later we shall have to organize some such centre. Why, it may be asked, did we not begin with this project? The answer to that is simple: the methods of fundamental education have now been more or less perfected; whereas, in the matter of education for international understanding, we have to start from scratch, inventing the methods as we go along. Unesco is working on them. We might almost say that all Unesco’s current work is, in one way or another, concerned with the development of methods for use in international education; our whole pro- gramme is directed to this end, not only in the items it contains but above all—and this is the point I wish to stress—in its methods; the preparation and execution of each one of our projects presupposes co-ordination, perspective and reciprocal arrange: ments, which are the very foundations of inter- national education. We might say that Unesco is at present educating public opinion, and the Govern- ments themselves, for international understanding. But there is one essential condition for its success in this work and it is to that condition that I wish to draw your attention today. It is that we should win and retain public confidence in Unesco’s impar- tiality. I believe this to be the crux of the matter. Unesco’s aim is to establish peace through the con- cert of civilizations. But the essential pre-requisite is that Unesco should be the servant of civilization, civilization for itself, free and independent of all temporal powers.- This seems to me to be the vital and enduring inspiration of our programme. What do we mean by “independent civilization”? In the course of a great discussion we had recently in the Board, when I used these words, I was asked to define my meaning, as though the words needed definition. I should say that a civilization is in- dependent so long as it is able to distinguish between reason and reasons of State, between truth and “official” truth. I say that we shall not win the confidence of the public unless we succeed in pre- serving this independence of civilization, and, that unless we can keep this free from interference, international education is impossible. It is not an easy aim to achieve; there are, indeed, many ob- stacles to be overcome. [16] The first difficulty is that politics are con- tinually impinging on cultural matters. The Nether- lands Minister of Education has just stressed this point, and I entirely agree with him. We are in constant danger of allowing questions of national politics or questions of ideology to affect our pro- gramme. Unesco should be above all national poli- cies, above all ideologies. It should strive for the independence of civilization, which is not a matter of ideology. [17] The second difficulty we find in carrying out   — m r inte tati Une is a con the voti civi dep and thai imr wil! unt ma cul
8101 [18 on bet: tur: we are wh of dis dic Sta for dor spl rea rep tio     . و ل ا ج ج ل ‎ p r r e S E S
67 PLENARY this task is a difficulty inherent in the very nature of Unesco and its basic duality. We are here in the interests of civilization, but we are also the represen- tatives of States. The sovereign Conference of Unesco which fixes the Organization's programme is a meeting of State representatives. Is there not a conflict of position between State representatives, on the one hand, and representatives responsible for voting on a programme concerned solely with civilization, and a civilization which must be in- dependent, on the other? There is a problem here and I am convinced that it is because of this problem that we have, or have had, difficulty in winning the immediate support of public opinion. I believe there will always be a lingering distrust in public opinion until people are convinced that we treat cultural matters without any political bias, and that our cultural programme is quite distinct from the deci- sions of State representatives. [18] There is another difficulty in the nature of the National Commissions themselves. We have to rely on the National Commissions to bridge the gap between the Conference and non-governmental cul- tural organizations in the different countries; but we must not forget that the National Commissions are themselves appointed by governments, a fact which strengthens them in one way but weakens them in another, for public opinion—I am thinking of intellectuals and university. people—instinctively distrusts the “official” view or any form of State dictation, so that a Commission representing the State, on the one hand, and the combined intellectual forces of the country, jealous of their cultural free- dom, on the other, is liable to develop an awkward split personality. To avert this danger—and it is a real danger—the Constitution provides an expedient in the form of a Board made up of prominent people representing the Conference—and, indirectly, the States, since they are appointed from among the members of the Conference—but carrying out their duties as members of the Board with purely cultural considerations in mind, regarding themselves no longer as the representatives of their respective coun- tries. It is a good compromise but, in the near future, the whole problem will have to be recon- sidered, since certain delegations have suggested that, if we decide to hold our Conferences at two-yearly intervals, a Board of Direction should take the place of this Board of notables. It would be out of place to raise this question here, since it is firstly a matter for the Procedure Committee; but I should like to put the problem from the standpoint of the pro- gramme, from the standpoint of the spirit of Unesco, because it seems to me to involve wider issues than mere procedure, and to affect the very essence of Unesco. In my concluding remarks I shall speak solely from this point of view. [19] I have three things to say:
(1) A Board of Direction seems to be a contradic- tion in terms in dealing with culture; trade can be MEETINGS 11-4 directed, an economy can be directed, labour, and even hygiene can be directed but not culture.
(2) I would remind you that, in cultural matters, the States themselves have set an example; in every country where there is a State University, the State has voluntarily limited its own powers with regard to the independent management of the University. The State administers, but leaves the professors with the responsibility of preparing their programmes and expounding their opinions according to the: dictates of their conscience and understanding. This represents a restriction of the State’s powers with respect to the independence of culture, a restriction which is admitted at the national level in all countries and which seems to provide a worthy example to be followed at the international level. We, for our part, must also contemplate some limitation of our own powers, since we are State representatives, but in working out the programme and defining the ideal aim of Unesco we must be the advocates of the most absolute independence.
(3) Lastly—and this is the final point I wish to make in this connexion, we, as members of Unesco, are met together to advance the work of the States, to suggest new ideas to them; we are here not simply to serve the States but also to produce a programme covering a wider field than the individual pro- grammes of each State taken singly. How can we achieve this aim, which also is beset with difficulties, unless we preserve this intrinsic independence, backed, as it must be, on the one hand, by the administrative power of the State and, on the other, by the independent forces of culture? That, Mr. President, was what I wished to say; I have been brief. Many other comments need making but, in obedience to your instructions, I have confined myself to these basic points. [20] The PRESIDENT — Your applause makes it superfluous for me to thank the Head of the Swiss delegation for his eloquent and very clear observa- tions. I now call upon Mgr. Maroun, delegate of the Lebanon. [21] Mgr. MAROUN (Lebanon) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, ladies and gentle- men, in speaking on behalf of the Lebanese dele- gation my object is not to compel youto listen to me, but rather to listen with you to the message which emerges from Unesco’s experience of the last six years. [22] The course of this tremendous undertaking, the stages through which we have so far passed, and the successes and failures we have encountered, are described in the report before you. It is, in my opinion, the best survey which has ever been produced ofthe life and progress of the Organization. [23] But let there be no misunderstanding. This report is not simply documentary. Although it is well documented, it is something more. It stands
11-4 PLENARY as a testimony, giving grounds for hope, and guid- ance for our future action. The general considera- tions in the introduction to the report must be con- sidered for a moment. There emerges from these pages a shaft of light in which we see, as never before, the true lineaments of Unesco and the drama of its destiny. [24] What is Unesco? When we consider the auspices under which the Organization was created, we might be tempted to regard it as a coalition brought about by the tragic pressure of circumstances that imperilled the spirit- ual survival of mankind. It has been called a coali- tion. But the term is not apposite. Coalitions, as we knowonly too well, are short-lived. Every coali- tion conceals coriflicting greeds and mutual sus- picions, which all too soon develop into open enmity. They are built on sand, for their foundations are compounded of mistrust and self-interest. Unesco is not a coalition. Its dominant characteristic is spi- ritual inwardness. Jointly and severally, the States, as members of a single human community, are laying the foundations of the city of brotherhood. That is what Unesco is called to be. If it is not that, it can be nothing. [25] In the introductory pages of his report, the Director-General states Unesco’s fundamental prob- lem with a clarity and exactitude we have never met before. Unesco belongs to two different worlds. Indissolubly linked with the free and sovereign Mem- ber States, it is, by its Constitution, an inter-govern- mental agency. But it is also a society of minds, no less free and independent. [26] Who can fail to perceive the tragedy inherent in the Organization’s position? [27] Unesco is bound to be constantly torn between the two opposing poles of throne and altar. At its present stage, it is caught on the horns of a dilemma; either it will become the slave of politics, which will frustrate its best endeavours; or, what is worse, detaching itself from inescapable political realities, it will be reduced to the status of a mere academic assembly, to which only the privileged can gain access. The General Conference has to meet and overcome this dual peril. [28] It would undoubtedly be unfair to minimize the part which Member States have to play, or to restrict their rights. We must be firmly resolved to safeguard to the full the sovereignty of political powers and their legitimate demands. Let there be no misunderstanding once again: the rights of States are the rights of the spirit. The neglect of the rights of the spirit by any government is a crime but, for a democratic government, it is more: itis suicide. The few government leaders whose words carried and still carry weight, whose decisions were and still are today able to guide the destiny of the peoples, were conscious of the paramount importance of spiritual things, when they agreed to set up a specialized agency to guarantee the basis of spiritual life. MEETINGS 68 Although today they are confronted with difficult problems and are forced to contemplate fundamental reforms, they cannot on any pretext renounce this truth, which must be their first principle: it is impossible to serve the spirit in one’s own country and betray it abroad. [29] Unesco, as I was saying a moment ago, is faced with the alternative of opting for the throne or for the altar. In either case, it will inflict injury upon itself. Unesco was built on an alliance of the two, and whatever regard we have for the throne the altar must, in our thoughts, stand higher. [30] There is another aspect of the question upon which the Director-General, in his “General Con- siderations”, invites us to reflect. Those who have read and re-read these pages will realize the per- spicacity Mr. Torres Bodet has shown in relating the whole of Unesco’s development to a fundamental tenet without which Unesco’s very existence is in- conceivable. Look at this chapter, gentlemen. You will find the nations there, standing side by side, seconding one another’s efforts, linked in unity in the world they share. The peoples of our own quar- ter of the world and those of all the continents, those of our own race and of every other, those who are taking their first halting steps on the path of human progress and those who have already written history. All must become aware of their propinquity and of the indissoluble bonds which link them: the choice is either to ascend together or to fall together into the abyss. [31] I do not think, gentlemen, that we need a specially mystical outlook or an unusual propensity for contemplation to discover the path which lies before this vast united host of all mankind, or the duties in the matter of co-operation which derive from that same unity. The period of history through which we are living gives us abundant proof that, whether we will or no, the world is one. If the experience of the past years has any meaning for us, if it is correctly interpreted in the introduction to the report before us, the first conclusion that we, our National Commissions and our Governments, are forced to draw is that we must conform to the requirements of our interdependent world. Those who feel that they have so far given most, must re- member that they have also received most. [32] May 1, Mr. Director-General, tell you how deeply I have been impressed, not so much by your arguments in the introduction to your report—for its excellence lies in something other than its exposi- tion of ideas—but by your exploration of the essence of matters with which you are in daily contact and which have become a part of your very being. 1 hope with all my heart that the Government re- presentatives who, at this session, are to discuss Unesco’s various problems, will catch something of your vision, which holds such rich promise for the future of the Organization. It is with this prospect in mind that I wish to express my delegation’s con-    |
7 “69 PLENARY sidered views on the Director-General’s Report and the Programme for 1952. This document, gentle- men, bears witness to the power of truth. Simply set out, devoid of artifice, it is yet deeply moving. We owe a debt of gratitude to Mr. Torres Bodet for his careful overall picture of Unesco at work. ‘The unique feature of this report is that, on every page, one is conscious of the Director-General’s personal occupation with all the complexities of Unesco’s great task. Readers can hardly fail to be impressed by the seven splendid vistas opening out of the seven heads of Unesco’s programme, and one feels instinc- tively that the Director-General gives in this report only such information as is necessary to determine what has been achieved during the year. [33] How can such an enormous field be satisfac- torily covered? The secret lies in the “networks” of people all concerned with a single problem and inspired by a single ideal. Unesco is something like a collegiate church. We are bound to see that, in addition to their faith in Unesco, Mr. Torres Bodet's colleagues are inspired by a great esteem for, and loyalty to, the leader who embodies that faith. [34] Going further than the simple survey, how- ever, there are two essential points which strike us. Firstly, there is still the sense of something lack- ing behind all the activities Unesco is conducting, and what is lacking is an inspiration which may give full significance to this enormous undertaking. All these resolutions are like single branches cut off and planted hastily in the ground to simulate a forest. They have no roots and cast no shade for the traveller. This does not necessarily imply a fault. The reason is that Unesco is still in no position to fulfil in practice, its potentialities. We should be wrong to complain, were it not that the meaning of this great experiment on which the Director-General has asked us to reflect cannot be made clear without reference to its human implications, which are on a different plane from that of the technical im- plementation of the programme. The lack of re- sponse on the part of Member States, to which atten- tion is sometimes drawn, is not in our view the worst failing. The uncertainty of the lead supplied from the centre is far more distressing and, in the past, has been Unesco’s tragedy. [35] What of tomorrow? Unesco looks ahead, clear-sighted and. confident. In the present cir- cumstances of the world we can nourish no illusions. Unesco’s new programme holds a message which is all the clearer and more eloquent because it is a message in action. And surely, the chief desire of the nations today is for evidence of action. There is no need for me to dwell, in this company, on the originality of the programme for 1952. Its main features are described with striking force in the introduction. For the first time we can see the projects both graded and as a whole. Enormous progress has been made over previous years, and all the credit for this must go to the Director-General and his colleagues. MEETINGS 11-4 [36] Not one of us can fail to see how important the special projects are. We know what attention they have attracted in the press, among the public and in the Member States. I should like to state clearly how vital we consider it that these projects should be carried out. We are so closely concerned with the drama of this century that we must be aware that the greatest threats to human dignity and peace are poverty and ignorance. Nothing makes it so easy to work on despair as penury and injustice. We are therefore determined to do all we can for the success of the two great schemes of technical assistance and fundamental education. This is our duty, gentlemen, in the name of humanity, in the name of the millions of people in the depths of phy- sical and moral suffering, who look for deliverance to the more fortunate inhabitants of the earth. That deliverance embodies the best hope of peace. [37] It is with this that we must begin, but Unesco’s mission implies more than this. Even if every man and woman were assured of an adequate standard of life and given staisfactory opportunities for intellectual development, the essential problem would still remain unsolved. Let us repeat once more that there must be no delay in starting on this work. It is vital, because the highest ideals of humanity are at stake. We must all feel how close we are in this to the essence of things. The new programme sets us a decisive choice, and the whole future of Unesco is in the balance. [38] When Unesco undertook the tasks it has set itself with regard to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, it passed the cape. Henceforward, all Unesco’s major problems must be viewed in the light of the Universal Declaration, in which alone they can be solved. The gradual extension of free- dom which has marked the stages of humanity’s advance represents, for the moment, the only sphere in which all ideologies can hope to meet and reach an understanding. What does it matter whether a man belongs to the Right or to the Left, whether he is a conservative or a revolutionary, a capitalist or a communist: in our view, not one of these words has any real meaning. There can be only one aim and one justification for any form of government and any institution—the preservation of the primacy of humanity. The one great adventure of history which attains to the scale of man’s soul, which is boundless and creative, is the winning of individual and col- lective freedom. We shall cease to feel cabined and confined by the world when we have set the spirit free within us. “All that is most essential in us will blossom forth and there will be no further cause for enmity. [39] Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of my remarks I asked you to listen with me to the message which rings through the pages you are asked to consider. This great capital city of Paris, now celebrating its two-thousandth anniversary, proclaims that same message in the age-long glory of its artists, scholars and writers and, above all else, a
114 PLENARY in the example of its saints. The greatest tribute we can pay to Paris in this year of rejoicing, is to listen, in silent respect, to this paean of its history. If we fail to offer freedom the space it needs to develop in our hearts, if so-called realism prevents us from regarding every spirit as a still imperfect reflec- tion of God's image, the physical universe will shut us in more and more closely with its walls; and the “very excellence of our technical inventions, no longer controlled by the spirit, will accelerate our headlong descent into the depths of misery. [40] The choice rests with us. We are the people Who can make the world a human abode in which suffering will be no longer the harvest of hatred but the means of redeeming an ever fairer creation and an ever purer joy. [41] The PRESIDENT — I specially thank the dele- gate of the Lebanon for reminding us that Unesco is an association of the spirit, and I recall to you the words of the Chairman of our Executive Board, who, on opening our Sixth Session, said that each one of us can be an apostle. I now call upon the Head of the delegation of Haiti, Dr. Camille Lhérisson, who will be our last speaker this evening. [42] Mr. LHERISSON (Haiti) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, it is my privilege today to greet this distinguished assembly in the name of the Republic of Haiti. Greetings to all our foreign colleagues, united in one desire and inspired by the conviction that they are working for the greater good of all the nations of the world. I should like to congratulate Mr. Torres Bodet on the good results his work has achieved; I congratulate him on the campaign Unesco has undertaken for the spread of human rights and the organization of a programme of education for inter- national understanding. I should like to thank the Technical Assistance Division, and to bear witness to the importance of its work. My special thanks are due to the Fundamental Education Division, which has laid the foundation on which the work of Technical Assistance can be continued. I wish to reiterate our belief in, and loyalty to, the United Nations. [43] I bring greetings to the incomparable land of France. I am glad to be here in Paris, in this city so rich in glory and history, with its age-old tradi- tion of great and generous thought, the qualities on which Unesco is founded—this city where science, culture and education have always lived in harmony, and where the principles of 1789, one of the greatest landmarks in the liberation of man, were for- mulated. [44] Unesco is a young Organization and, for that reason, is subject to all the growing pains of any developing organism. We must not be discouraged by the difficulties inseparable from the growth of such an institution, when all humanity looks to MEETINGS education, scientific research and culture for the means to change man’s lot. [45] There is good reason for Unesco’s existence. I cannot help thinking that we have never before been in such peril and, to convince you, I would remind you of Mr. Maritain’s words at the Second Session of the General Conference in Mexico City on
6 November 1947: We meet at an extremely grave moment in world history, a moment when, confronted by the international tension and growing antagonisms, the dangers of which it would be vain to belittle, vast sections of public opinion are running the risk of allowing themselves to be obsessed by the spectre of catastrophe and of sur- rendering to the belief that war is inevitable. The anguish of the peoples breaks all bounds. In this world, crushed beneath the burden of post-war distresses and under the leaden weight of rival economic, political and ideological interests, shall not those consecrated to work of the mind, those who feel the responsibility of such a mission, give voice to the primitive instinct for preser- vation, to the immense longing for peace and liberty, and to repudiation of misery and death, which, despite a strange passivity more akin to despair than to strength of soul, stir. the hidden depths of men’s minds? Shall they not proclaim that resignation to disaster is the worst of all follies, that fear and its reflexes, when yielded to, attract the very dangers most dreaded, that the more dramatic the situation of the peoples, and the greater the clarity of vision demanded of statesmen, the more vigorously must the idea of the inevitability of war be denounced as a fatal surrender of human intelli- gence and dignity ? [46] His Holiness Pope Pius XII laid his finger on the origin of the present crisis when he wrote, on
20 October 1939: There is no doubt that the root of all the ills of modern society is the denial and the rejection of a universal moral law, either in individual life or in social life and inter- national relations. He also denounced the forgetting of that law of human unity and charity which is dictated and imposed both by the common origin of man and by the equality of all men as reason- able creatures, irrespective of the nation to which they belong. [47] Never before have minds been so deeply and so distressingly divided. Doctrines and systems clash throughout the world. It is at this juncture that we have to seek to mobilize the forces of the spirit. Unesco’s work entails taking a part in the organiza- tion of the modern world and implies an active and effective contribution to world peace. It would not be out of place to add that Unesco—that is to say, all we assembled here—must work out a spiritual policy designed to call all the strength and forces of life into play against all those ideas which hamper human progress and delay the establishment of a | | | | ؤ | | | | | | | |       — c r e e r ж е н е к м ب ا و ...+  — — ك ر ك ‎ E S
71 : PLENARY rule of peace and social security which may at last allow the masses of mankind, and the coloured peoples, to gain a knowledge and understanding of the true problems of humanity. In these times, we must perish or be saved together; at the stage we have reached we are forced to a realization of the importance of international co-operation. Unadul- terated nationalism has no place in a world which has become one through the action of economic factors, and in which the interdependence of the peoples is becoming daily more manifest. Effective action must be taken against ignorance and illiteracy. I must admit that this task demands of us courage, ability and determination. We have evidence, in the tragic situation of the backward countries, of what a minority desiring to impose its will is capable of doing for the selfish satisfaction of its petty interests. Faced with ignorance, poverty, sickness and death, it is not enough to invoke science, culture or technology, so long as the people among whom we work are shut off from the benefits of scientific progress, deprived of a part in culture, and know nothing of technical advances. To do so would be to betray, at once, charity, humanity and spiritual values. [48] We shall never understand the difficulties which, with the mental condition of societies, are the true causes of the delay in their intellectual development, if we deal solely in ideas; direct experi- ence and an effort of imagination are needed. It is by the realization of their problems, and by their determination to free themselves from the bonds of slavery, that the common people will bring about the establishment of a new system. When the for- tunate of this world, as leaders, are deaf to the voice of conscience and fail in their essential task of promoting the progress of the peoples, by reason of a morbid conceit and overweening intolerance, they betray their educative mission, their re- sponsibilities and their very function of leadership. When, however, they have the courage to recognize all the shortcomings of the community to which they belong, and have the will to remedy them, they give evidence of their inherent qualification for their high position. All the discoveries of modern physics, if wisely used for peaceful purposes, in agriculture, industry and medicine, can change the present face of the world and open up for all mankind undreamt- of prospects of freedom and prosperity. But there will be neither freedom nor prosperity so long as the structure of society and the consciences of men are not subject to the governance of reason, that is to say, to a more humane conception of life. So long as there are any men not inspired by the de- termination to work for the common good, the world will stand in need of a fresh infusion of ethical truths into culture for the reform of their conduct. [49] In 1914, a war was fought; men were ex- horted to fight to the end for total victory; some MEETINGS 11-4 were killed; others disabled; yet others were spared to live through the aftermath of a peace which was no peace, and to witness a fresh cataclysm. They had fought a war to make sure that their children and grandchildren could live in peace. Their children and grandchildren are dead; some died in concentration camps; others were shot as hostages. They had fought a war to secure the benefits of democracy and peace; they were the vic- tims of dictatorship. [50] Since 1939 our civilization has been in danger; not even the highest of our values are safe from the risk of destruction. We must raise our voices in defence of the rights of reason, justice and truth. There are inevitable mischances in the work of man, but there is also a sort of grandeur. Perhaps true wisdom would lie in re-discovering in simple, primitive man a sense of the destiny we have lost. But to be content with that would be to betray man’s aspirations, his human nature and his human dignity. [51] At dawn, the day issues from the night. The present disorders of the world have a profound significance; a new force is stirring, of which men are dimly conscious; and, being unable to discern its nature, they are full of fear. We shall find salvation by clarity of vision, determination and dis- cipline. Each one of us bears his share of re- sponsibility in the drama of the modern world, and any lack of interest, any standing aside is a tac acceptance of the worst. If the high promises in- herent in the most degraded of men are so potent that no despair can conquer them, we must persevere in our efforts to raise man up with all the forces of light we and Unesco can command. We are called to a crusade in those regions of the earth where men and women, deprived of medicine, culture and faith, have grown up, suffered, aged and died; we are called to save those souls, those hearts, those minds, all this wisdom which has never yet borne fruit. This is the most glorious, the most completely human adventure on which we can embark, using the power of knowledge—that is, science and wis- dom hand in hand—to help our less fortunate brethren. In closing, I would remind you of the following words of Balzac from Les Illusions Perdues: You have the seal of genius on your brow; but if your heart lacks the determination, the unfailing patience of genius, if you are not prepared, however far the freaks of fate may set you from your goal, to strike out again on your quest for the infinite, as the turtle, wherever it is, will seek its beloved sea, you may renounce the struggle today. [52] The PRESIDENT — My colleagues, I can think of no more inspiring note on which to con- clude our meeting today than the very moving and eloquent speech just made by the Head of the dele-     i i |
11-5 PLENARY gation of Haiti. I congratulate you upon the pro- gress you have made today in perfecting the organi- zation of this General Conference. I also congra- tulate our four speakers who have returned to us a small dividend of the four times 15 minutes allotted MEETINGS 72 to them, and feel sure that you will join me in thanking them. As there is no other business, I declare this meeting closed. The meeting rose at 6.50 p.m. FIFTH PLENARY MEETING Wednesday, 20 June 1951, at 10.47 a.m. President: Mr. Pau MonteL (France) CONTENTS Discussion of the Director-General's Report (continuation). Speeches by the delegates of Sweden, Peru, United Kingdom, Israel, United States of America, Australia and Lebanon . : : : : ; ; 72 Discussion of the Director-General's Report (continuation). [1] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] The meeting is open. We shall continue with the discussion of the Director-General's report on the work of the Organization. I call on Mr. Dü- ring, Head of the Swedish delegation, and ask him to come to the rostrum. [2] Mr. Ingemar DÚRING (Sweden) — Mr. Presi- dent, ladies and gentlemen, I think that all who have studied the clear and concise report of our dis- tinguished Director-General will agree that it is an excellent document, enabling us to form a fairly realistic opinion of Unesco's activities during the past year, and I wish to join earlier speakers in con- gratulating the Director-General and his staff. [3] I find myself today in a rather difficult position. Personally, and as a humble collaborator in Unesco’s activities for some years, I am well aware that the Organization is now on the right road towards con- centration on essential activities, and I should have liked to dwell on some quite positive aspects of the work of this Organization and on the considerable progress it has made in various respects. [4] However, Unesco is an organization of govern- ments, and my duty here is to express the reactions of my Government. I am afraid that I must report that the attitude towards Unesco in my country, particularly in parliamentary circles, is still rather sceptical and critical. It is felt that there are still too many who like to maintain the illusion that Unesco is the one organization for the promotion of education, science and culture in this world, and that government officials, members of parliaments, scientists and educators, not to speak of the man in the street, all look upon Unesco as something in the nature of the hope of the world. During the past
50 years, very extensive international collaboration in the fields of education, science and culture, have been developed in many countries, mostly through private initiative and encouraged and gradually more and more subsidized by grants from organizations and governments. In these countries, cultural life has long been organized in such a way that channels are already provided for practically every kind of activity in Unesco’s special fields. This, in fact, is the background to the critical and sceptical attitude towards Unesco, as a newcomer in the field, and the primary reason why, in some countries, it is felt that Unesco sets too wide a scope for its activities, and tries to include in its programme a number of projects which in themselves might be useful and desirable, although not very urgent in the present world situation, projects which could as well be left to private initiative. [6] A very good definition of Unesco, first for- mulated by Sir John Maud, if my memory is right, is “a network of mutual services”. This definition comes very close to the conception of Unesco’s objectives that our distinguished Director-General expressed in his lucid and eloquent address yesterday, and I really think that it would be very much to m m . A E E S У  wil wi sp! pr! of [7 thi no is th wd pr ap in ar or in ex is or} ard a in th frd sid Md tu Af] G m wd so