273 PROGRAMME two parts together for the time being. There were no budgetary implications. [68] Item (h). The conference proposed was a highly expert one which it was hoped would help Unesco to meet a United Nations request and imple- ment a resolution taken at the Florence Session. The result should be sufficiently important to warrant printing rather than multigraphing. Printing costs were estimated at $11,500. [69] Mr. STODDARD (United States of America) wished to propose, as a substitute for the United Kingdom suggestion, that the only change with budgetary implications be the elimination of projects (a) and (b), giving a total estimated saving of some $16,500, and that the Department should do whatever else it could informally without an ad- ditional budget. [70] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu- cation) was anxious to help the Commission in its task of cutting the programmes, and suggested that IV-3 \ COMMA SSS TORN one of the three monographs in fundamental edu- cation might be added to the United States list of cuts, giving an additional $2,500 saving. [71] Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) was happy to support the United States proposal, together with the additional cut suggested by Mr. Elvin. [72] In reply to a proposal from Mr. MAQUET (Belgium) concerning News for Youth, Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education) explained that the publication in question came under item 1.344. [73] At the DIRECTOR-GENERAL's request, Mr. ELVIN added that the cuts agreed on amounted to a total of $19,000, of which $2,000 fell under item 1.12 and $17,000 under item 1.121. [74] Items 1.12 and 1.121 were approved, subject to the proposed cuts. accordingly The meeting rose at 1 p.m. THIRD MEETING Wednesday, 27 June 1951, at 3.30 p.m. Chairman: Mr. Jean PIAGET (Switzerland) Discussion of the Draft Programme for 1952 (continuation) [document 6C/5 (1)]. Education (continuation). EXTENSION OF EDUCATION. Item 1.211. [1] The CHAIRMAN opened the discussion on item 1.211 (Literacy campaigns). There were no special costs for the item. A draft resolution con- nected with the item had been submitted by the Venezuelan delegation, but it would be more appropriate to consider it under Mass Communi- cation, when the Commission studied the question of radio broadcasts for fundamental education. [2] Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium) gave an account of efforts made in the Belgian Congo to encourage the indigenous population to play an increasingly active part in social development. International co-oper- ation was doubtless essential and had always produced good results, but Belgium, for her part, intended to continue to stimulate the activity of her national committees and national associations of experts. [3] Mr. CALÖ (Italy) stated that, for the past four years, the Italian Ministry of Education had been setting up a large number of fundamental education schools, divided into three categories, for the pur- pose of combating illiteracy; in 1950, some
500,000 persons had attended those schools. Mr. Cald drew attention to the importance of evolving clear and reasonable terminology, so that there would be no risk of ambiguity, and of organizing the different parts of fundamental education pro- grammes in a rational manner. [4] Item 1.211 was adopted.   PROGRAMMEIV-3 Item 1.212. [6] The CHAIRMAN opened the discussion on item
1.212 (Use of vernacular languages). [6] Mr. CASTRO LEAL (Mexico) thought that programmes relating to food, technical industries and rural industries should be added in item 1.212 to the list of fields in which technical aid might be given as part of the campaign to develop funda- mental education. [7] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL feared that it was necessary to suggest cuts, as the budget total had been so reduced that it could no longer cover the whole programme. Regretfully, therefore, he pro- posed the deletion of a sum of $3,800 for travel of members of the Secretariat to Asia and Africa to help with the establishment of national fundamental and adult education committees. Further, as the deletion of so small a sum would have little effect, he felt obliged to propose the deletion of $16,250 for the meeting of the Working Party of specialists in Africa which was to have studied the problem of the use of African languages in relation to English, where English was an accepted auxiliary language. That meant eliminating a very important project, for it had been hoped that the Working Party’s findings would provide the Trusteeship Council with valuable documentation. The Director-General sought consolation in the thought that, by its 1951 programme in that field, Unesco had already accomplished valuable work. [8] Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia) quite agreed with the Director-General that, in view of the reduced budget total, some economy had to be made, but he was very much against saving on the meeting in Africa. He therefore proposed that the reduction suggested by the Director-General should be deferred until a later stage in the discussion of the pro- gramme, when it might be found possible to make economies elsewhere on less important items. [9] Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) shared the Director-General’s regret at the suggestion of eli- minating the conference in Africa. The United Kingdom was very deeply concerned indeed with the question of the use of vernacular languages in fundamental education. Nevertheless, he did not believe that, if the conference could not be held in
1952, it would be a great loss for Unesco, provided it was only postponed. The use of vernacular languages in education was such a complicated question that Unesco could not hope for a rapid solution and it would be all to the good if it had an extra year to carry out preliminary studies, holding the conference in 1953. [10] Mr. MARROU (France) felt it unnecessary to C'OMMTSSTON 274 stress France’s keen interest in the problem of vernacular languages. She had already accomplished important work in territories in the Far East for which she had formerly been responsible and which had since become members of the French Union. The French National Commission, with the Govern- ment’s support, had initiated a programmeof studies and had set up a body to determine the grammar and syntax of vernacular languages with a view to their use in fundamental education. The French delegation felt however, that it could accept the sug- gestion regretfully made by the Director-General, provided that the working party's meeting was merely postponed and not dropped altogether. [11] Mr. Marrou pointed out that the adoption of certain items might influence decisions regarding the special Fundamental Education project. It would therefore be advisable to consider items
2191: 12123 and 1213 at the same time as the special project. [12] The CHAIRMAN pointed out that a separate study of that project was to be made, after the general budget had been considered. [13] Mgr. MAROUN (Lebanon) endorsed the remarks of the Liberian delegate; the activity which it was proposed to delete formed part of a pro- gramme of particular interest to certain Member States, which could benefit from Unesco’s assistance only under that heading. He therefore requested the maintenance of the whole appropriation for that item. [14] Mr. MONTANER (Uruguay) wished likewise that the whole appropriation for that item should be maintained to allow of maximum efficiency in the development of the fundamental education pro- gramme. In agreement with the Organization of American States and in co-operation with Unesco, his country had organized, in 1950, a third edu- cational seminar which had been very successful. He stressed the importance of such international seminars as being instrumental in creating an attitude within the various countries, and especially within institutions responsible for education, fa- vourable to the fostering of a spirit of wider co- operation among men. In his view, any arrange- ment that would enable the sum shown in the draft programme to be maintained should be endorsed by all countries desirous of seeing Unesco’s action spread as widely as possible. [15] Mr. SARGEANT (United States of America) felt that the best way of keeping within the budget total was to establish a list of priorities. His dele- gation considered fundamental education to be one of Unesco’s most outstanding activities and one which deserved high priority; it would therefore
275 PROGRAMME regret any reduction in the Fundamental Education programme. On the understanding, however, that no harm would be done to that programme as a whole, his delegation would agree to the postpone- ment of the African conference, provided the money was earmarked for some other fundamental education activity. [16] Sir Arcot L. MUDALIAR (India) supported the Liberian delegate. People in India were greatly interested in the relationship between what they preferred to call “regional” and auxiliary languages, and considered it essential for the progress of literacy that a conference of experts should study the matter. The Indian delegation therefore seconded the pro- posal that the question of a reduction on the item under discussion should be deferred until the whole programme had been considered. If at that time it was decided that a reduction would have to be made, the Indian delegation proposed that the Secre- tariat should then study the possibility of a confer- ence in 1953. He strongly supported the United States proposal that fundamental education should be given high priority. [Mr LHERISSON (Haiti) also stressed the particular importance of that part of the Fundamental Education programme. The Commission should try to make savings on other items in the programme and maintain the conference in Africa. [18] Although he would also be sorry to see the proposed reduction, Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium) felt bound, in view of the extremely important consider- ations mentioned by the Director-General, to agree to the postponement of the meeting in Africa. [19] Mr. VILLALBA VILLALBA (Venezuela) re- commended that every effort should be made to avoid reducing the budgetary appropriation for the Fundamental Education programme. With regard to the African conference, he thought that every sacrifice ought to be made and that the Director- General might even be authorized to take steps to obtain financial assistance from organizations outside Unesco. [20] Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia) was surprised that the countries which controlled non-self-governing territories and realized the importance of using the vernacular languages in fundamental education in Africa should favour the postponement of the African conference. It was their primary responsibility to see that the natives of Africa were educated, and at least 95 per cent of the latter did not speak any European language and could be approached only through the medium of vernacular languages. The use of vernacular languages was a priority in any fundamental education programme but, in Africa, it was more important than anywhere else.   COMMISSION IV-3 [21] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL could only repeat that it would be extremely difficult, in any case, to carry out a programme which had already been cut down to a minimum, and, with a budget of only $8,700,000, certain activities would have to be reduced, even some that were considered essential. He raised the question whether the Commission should stop considering the Programme and return . to the criteria for priorities. According to those criteria, the whole education programme should be given absolute priority. He therefore proposed that the Commission should postpone a decision on the African conference until it reviewed the Programme for the second time. It would then have all the facts before it. and could take a decision, bearing in mind the balance which should be maintained be- tween the different parts of the Programme. [22] The CHAIRMAN called for a vote on the proposal that a final decision on the item under discussion should be postponed until the second review of the programme. [23] Adopted. [24] The CHAIRMAN then put to the vote the proposed reduction of $3,800 on travel expenses of members of the Secretariat. [25] Adopted. Item 1.2121. [26] The CHAIRMAN opened the discussion on item 1.2121 (Marbial Pilot Project, Haiti). [27] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu- cation) explained that the Marbial Valley project had been transferred to the Technical Assistance Programme, and it was thus possible to save $9,000 on posts which had been transferred to the Technical Assistance budget; it was felt, however, that Unesco’s contribution to the project should, if possible, be maintained at $20,000, as the Haitian Government needed help in paying local labour and for the purchase of local materials, which could not be defrayed under Technical Assistance. A cut of $2,400 for travel could however be made, which would reduce the estimate of $22,400 to $20,000. [28] Mr. GABRIEL JEAN-FRANCOIS (Rapporteur) requested permission to speak as a delegate of Haiti. He recalled that the training centre in Haiti had served as an experiment, enabling Unesco to study the problems involved in combating illiteracy. A teachers’ training college and reception centres for holders of Unesco scholarships were being estab- lished at Marbial. He therefore sincerely hoped that Unesco would do everything possible to preserve the international character of the experimental centre
1 m m m o s x В       IV-3 PROGRAMME and would agree, in any case, to maintain its total contribution at $20,000. [29] The CHAIRMAN asked the Commission to vote on the proposal, involving an economy of $2,400, which would reduce the total costs for item
1.2121 to $20,000. [30] The proposal was adopted by 27 votes to 13. Item 1.2122. [31] The CHAIRMAN then opened the discussion on item 1.2122 (Training and Production Centre for Fundamental Education in Latin America). [32] Mr. CASTRO LEAL (Mexico) proposed that the entire sum provided for in resolution 1.2122 should be left unchanged. The development of the Training and Production Centre for Fundamental Education in Latin America was of exceptional importance, not only because of the effect it might have on other Latin American countries, but also because it would provide a necessary basis on which to model the other Centres contemplated in Unesco's special project. It was quite possible that a re- duction in the sum appropriated for that purpose by Unesco might lead to reduced contributions from Mexico and the Organization of American States. [33] Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) supported the Mexican delegate. His delegation had no in- structions to propose a cut on the whole Fundamental Education section, but it would, of course, accept any cut proposed by the Secretariat. It warmly supported the proposal that fundamental education centres should be given the maximum amount of money possible. [34] Mgr. MAROUN (Lebanon) supported the Mexican delegate in requesting the maintenance of the full appropriation for the item, as it related to experiments upon which the whole future of the special Fundamental Education project depended. [35] Mr. MILLS (Australia) asked whether the Organization of American States intended to make a larger contribution to the Centre in 1952 than in
1951. [86] Mr. SARGEANT (United States of America) warmly supported the project and hoped that it would form part of a network of fundamental edu- cation centres throughout the world. Mr. LHERISSON (Haiti) noted the statement Although he had felt that he ought not to speak on the subject of the Marbial Centre, he was free to support the [37] made by the United Kingdom delegate. COMMISSION 276 Mexican delegation and to ask the Commission to maintain the total appropriation for the Training Centre in Latin America. [38] Mr. BERNAL JIMÉNEZ (Colombia) supported the Mexican delegate's proposal. In his view, the Fundamental Education project in question was of the utmost importance to the Latin American countries, particularly from the point of view of the development and expansion of a world-wide network of fundamental education centres. [39] Mr. CALO (Italy) pointed out that it was essential to maintain the total sum appropriated for the Centre, as that sum was intended to finance an extension of activities previously authorized by the Conference. [40] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL thanked the Com- mission for trusting the Secretariat to continue a project which, although there had been initial doubts as to its success, was making encouraging progress. [41] The Director-General pointed out to the Australian delegate that the Mexican Government had made an important contribution towards the organization of the Centre, having, among other things, built very comfortable living quarters for scholarship-holders taking courses there. The Secretariat had proposed an economy of $1,400 which had been allowed for a visit the Director of the Centre was to have made to Unesco Headquarters. It was for the Commission to decide whether that reduction was advisable. [42] Mr. MARROU (France) supported the state- ment made by the United Kingdom delegate at the previous meeting: silence signified agreement. [43] Hussein FAWZY Bey (Egypt) fully agreed with the Director-General’s reply to the Australian delegate. The project had been conceived as one of Unesco’s basic projects and, even if other organi- zations did not raise their contributions, Unesco should maintain the level of its own and continue to give every possible support to such centres. The project was of benefit to the entire world and to the whole of Unesco’s work in fundamental edu- cation. He therefore moved the maintenance of the whole estimate, without the cut suggested by the Director-General. [44] The CHAIRMAN put the reduction of $2,400 proposed by the Secretariat to the vote. [45] The proposal was rejected. The total ap- propriation for item 1.2122 was therefore maintained at $128,400.      — .
277 PROGRAMME Item 1.218. [46] Item 1.213, for which there were no special costs, was adopted. Item 1.221. [47] Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) asked for an explanation of the words “working people” in re- solution 1.221. In the modern world, practically everyone was a worker. [48] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu- cation) explained that it meant industrial workers. In its Fundamental Education programme, Unesco was mainly concerned with rural districts, so that it had been felt that, in its adult education pro- gramme, the Organization should concentrate on industrial workers. [49] Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) said that he was satisfied with that explanation and accordingly he would not move an amendment. [60] Item 1.221 was adopted. Item 1.222. [61] The CHAIRMAN opened the discussion on item 1.222 (Organization of national or regional seminars to study the problems of adult education). [52] The Italian delegation had submitted an amendment [document 6C/DR/54], reading as follows: bearing in mind that these seminars should, as far as possible, deal each with a separate aspect and one of the main fields of adult education, and that one, at all events, should be concerned with art education, the vital function of which is to awaken the worker’s interest and pleasure in the world of disinterested culture and to release and integrate the creative forces within him. [63] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) stated that the Executive Board had already taken that request into consideration in connexion with the seminar which was to be held in Bristol be- tween 7 and 27 July. [54] Mr. CALO (Italy) pointed out that such seminars produced extremely interesting practical results, but the quality of the work often suffered from the fact that too many problems had to be dealt with. If positive results were to be obtained, a seminar on one definite and restricted aspect of fundamental education should be organized. [55] The CHAIRMAN asked the Italian delegate whether he would agree to the insertion in the work plans of the important principle of differentiating between topics for discussion and for study. COMMISSION 1V-3 [56] Mr. CALO (Italy) accepted the Chairman's suggestion. [57] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu- cation) pointed out that it was not Unesco’s inten- tion, under the item in question, to organize two regional seminars itself, but to assist others to do so, who would be primarily responsible for the cost; it was therefore not for Unesco to select subjects, unless it received a great many requests. The re- writing of the work plans would mean that the Secretariat’s hands would be tied and it might have to refuse some very interesting subjects. He there- fore hoped that the Italian delegate would not press his proposal. [58] The CHAIRMAN took a vote on the proposal to adopt item 1.222 without any budgetary reduction. [59] Adopted. Item 1.223. [60] The CHAIRMAN opened the discussion on item 1.223 (Establishment of an international centre for the training of specialists and the improvement of methods in workers’ education, and for the organization of educational courses for workers, particularly in relation to international under- standing). [61] The SECRETARY read the relevant paragraph of the Budget Committee's preliminary reports: If the Programme Commission feels that such prepa- rations could not be satisfactorily completed in 1952 and that the opening of the Centre should be postponed until
1953, a saving of some $40,000 could be made in this chapter. [62] Mr. DAHLANDER (Sweden) stated that his delegation attached great importance to the project, considering the promotion of adult education for international understanding to be one of Unesco’s most essential tasks. Such a centre would also stimulate workers’ interest in Unesco. He fully agreed with the Budget Committee's comments, on page 9 of document 6C/BUD/1, that there should be thorough preparation before the opening of the centre and that Unesco should provide, in that connexion, for consultation with National Commissions and with the International Labour Organization. [63] Mr. Dahlander recalled that there was a Scandinavian Folk High School in Geneva. The School, which had been established in 1981, or- ganized educational courses for workers with a view to promoting international understanding. Parti- cipants took a preliminary course in Scandinavia, and then the whole group moved to Geneva, where members could attend the ILO Conference, thus       IV-3 PROGRAMME studying at first hand one of the United Nations Specialized Agencies. In 1951, it was planned that the course should move to Paris, where members would have an opportunity of studying Unesco. The activity was highly esteemed in Scandinavia, and the Swedish delegation suggested that Unesco’s adult education centre might form the nucleus of a Unesco Folk High School. [64] Mr. SARGEANT (United States of America) remarked that the importance of the project lay in the fact that it would bring a knowledge of Unesco and its purposes to people who had na opportunity to attend colleges and universities. Another impor- tant reason for maintaining it was that the items on workers’ education formed a very small proportion of Unesco’s total programme. The work plans under resolution 1.223 were well-defined and precise and should be put into practice as soon as possible. Delay in bringing the plans to fruition might be interpreted by some workers’ associations as reluc- tance on Unesco’s part to bring its story to the free labour movements throughout the world. The Budget Committee suggested that it might not be possible to complete the preparations in 1952, in which case it might be advisable to open the centre in the autumn, rather than in the summer, of 1953, because workers were occupied with their own pro- grammes in the summer. [65] Like the two previous speakers, Mr. BLINKEN- BERG (Denmark) was convinced that the item was one of the most important in the programme, and he therefore proposed the maintenance of the total estimate. [66] The proposal was seconded by Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium), who thought that the establishment of the international centre would produce extremely valuable results, and, in particular, would enable a precise definition of adult education to be found. [67] Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) thought it should be possible to complete the preparations in
1952. He joined the delegates of Sweden, Denmark and the United States of America in hoping that the project would be pressed forward to a successful conclusion. [68] Mrs. ÉTIENNE (International Confederation of Free Trade Unions), speaking on a behalf of 60 million members from all continents, strongly urged the Commission not to reduce the appropria- tion for the establishment of the international centre. [69] Mr. UVALIC (Yugoslavia) did not think that the method suggested was particularly satisfactory, on account of the many differences between the political systems of each of the countries concerned; he considered that those differences made the COMMISSION 278 proposed centralization of methods out of the question. In attempting to solve the problem of workers’ education in relation to international understanding, National Commissions should be consulted with a view to ascertaining the particular conditions existing in each country. [70] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu- cation), referring to the Budget Committee’s com- ments, stated that the Secretariat always consulted with National Commissions when undertaking any project. A representative of ILO always took part in the meetings of the Consultative Committee on Adult Education and had attended its last meeting, when draft programme resolution 1.223 had been discussed. With regard to the Budget Committee's doubts that preparations could be completed in 1952, Mr. Elvin observed that the Secretariat had a year in which to complete them, and he thought it should be able to do so by the end of 1952. He agreed with the United States delegation that workers’ trade unions and associations would be very disappointed if the project were postponed. [71] Referring to the remarks of the Yugoslav delegate, Mr. Elvin said that it was the opinion of the International Federation of Workers’ Educational Associations that, although leaders could be trained within the national framework, it was desirable to bring them together at the international level and make them realize that they all lived in the same world. [72] With regard to the budget estimate, the Secre- tariat could offer a slight reduction of $4,600 for the travel of delegates to meetings which it was hoped to hold in Paris, as mentioned in the work plans. [73] The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the Secre- tariat’s proposal for a reduction of $4,600. [74] Adopted by 33 votes to 6, with 1 abstention. Item 1.231. [75] Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) said that his delegation would agree to the adoption of the re- solution concerning the effective application of the principle of free and compulsory schooling. To show how seriously Great Britain took her responsibilities in Africa, he gave a brief account of an intensive educational campaign started approximately one generation earlier in British tropical Africa, in connexion with the question of free and compulsory schooling. He offered to distribute to delegates interested in the question copies of a booklet on that campaign. [76] Mr. VILLALBA VILLALBA (Venezuela) stated that, in his country, compulsory schooling had been instituted some time ago at the primary, secondary and high school levels. He also mentioned that |  | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
279 PROGRAMME university education in Venezuela was absolutely free. [77] Mr. MONTANER (Uruguay) said that free education had long since been instituted in Uruguay at the primary, secondary and high school levels and in technical schools. At the universities, which were attended by increasing numbers of students, all courses and textbooks were free and there were no examination or matriculation fees. There were also evening courses for workers and frequent educational broadcasts. [78] Mr. ABRAHAM (France) stressed the particu- lar importance of the conference, which had been contemplated for several years. France hoped that the greatest possible number of delegations would attend the Conference on Public Education and that it would result in very valuable recommendations. [79] Item 1.231 was adopted. Item 1.232. [80] The CHAIRMAN opened the discussion on item 1.232 (Regional Conference in South East Asia to study the problems of the effective and progressive application in that region of the principle of free and compulsory schooling). [81] The SECRETARY read the relevant section of the Budget Committee's preliminary report: Savings could be made in travel expenses if this Con- ference were to be held concurrently with or imme- diately after the Meeting of National Commissions planned in the same region. It is felt that wider recourse to National Commissions and Ministries of Education might be considered for the carrying out of research or surveys. [82] In view of the many and varied problems involved in executing items 1.232 and 1.2321 Mgr. MAROUN (Lebanon) thought that States invited to attend the Conference should be selected, not on the basis of geographical distribution, but according to criteria corresponding to the particular aims of the meeting. [83] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL was regretfully obliged to point out to the Budget Committee that it was impossible to hold concurrently a meeting of National Commissions and a conference of specialists convened to study a given problem, more especially as the Regional Conference in South East Asia was to meet neither in Bangkok nor in 1951. [84] The Director-General agreed with the delegate of Lebanon that it was desirable to draw up a list of groups of States for the execution of various parts of the programme in South East Asia, the Middle
80 ‎ريالا 7М ТУ-З East, etc. That would facilitate Unesco’s task and would avoid any overlapping. [85] Mr. SARGEANT (United States of America) heartily supported the resolution. He pointed out that several international teachers’ associations were anxious to co-operate in the project, and suggested that Unesco should enlist their collaboration, as well as that of the teachers’ association mentioned in the work plans. In the United States delegation’s view, resolution 1.232 should be considered in conjunction with resolution 1.233, as the despatch of advisory missions would be more effective if preceded by consultations between the educational authorities concerned. [86] Mr. MILLS (Australia), speaking on behalf of the Australian National Commission, warmly sup- ported the resolution and stated that the National Commission was ready to assist in any way possible. [87] Hussein FAWZY Bey (Egypt) expressed his delegation’s support of the project, especially as South East Asia represented one third of the world’s total population and suffered from a very high per- centage of illiteracy. The recent political emancipa- tion of the countries in that area would have to be followed by cultural emancipation and, although much was already being done, the educational leaders needed Unesco's help, particularly in con- nexion with education for world citizenship. He hoped that India and Pakistan would be included in the area, as South East Asia could not be con- sidered as a cultural area without them. [88] Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) associated his delegation with those who had supported the project. With regard to finance, he inferred from the language of the programme document that all travel expenses would be borne by Unesco. He suggested that a small saving of $4,000 to $5,000 might be effected if part of the travel costs were carried on national budgets. If, however, the Commission was against his suggestion, he would not press it. [89] Sir Arcot L. MUDALIAR (India) fully sup- ported resolution 1.232, as many countries in South East Asia were in urgent need of such a conference as that proposed and he was very anxious that it should be a complete success. He therefore hoped that the United Kingdom proposal would be held in abeyance, as it was most desirable that all the countries of the area should be able to attend. He did not think it mattered in which country the Conference was held. He agreed with the United States delegate that re- solutions 1.232 and 1.233 were in some degree inter- related. [90] Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) was of the same opinion. It would be interesting to know the results          IV-3 PROGRAMME of the work already carried out by the Working Party set up by the Executive Board and to com- municate its findings, by way of preliminary infor- mation, to the other Working Party which was to be appointed. [91] The CHAIRMAN proposed that the Working Party should be appointed at the next meeting. [92] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu- cation) stated that the Secretariat would certainly comply with the United States delegate’s first sug- gestion and enlist the co-operation of other teachers’ associations interested in the project. With regard to the United States delegate’s second remark, although there was certainly a connexion between resolutions 1.232 and 1.233, Mr. Elvin pointed out that many other countries, not connected with the Conference mentioned in resolution 1.232, might wish to receive missions of experts on free and com- pulsory education. [93] With regard to the United Kingdom delegate’s comment, he observed that the figure for travel also included per diem allowances. [94] Item 1.232 was adopted. Item 1.2321. [95] The CHAIRMAN opened the discussion on item 1.2321 (Preparations for a similar conference to be held in 1953 in the Middle East). [96] The SECRETARYread the Budget Committee's report on that item: The Committee feels that the procedure for the prepa- ration of this Conference would be better if the sums allowed for travelling expenses were reduced and the savings thus effected were used to allow the two con- sultants to spend a longer time in the area; the periods stated appear to be very short, when the complexity of the problems to be considered in this region is taken into account. [97] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu- cation) proposed a reduction of $3,800 on travel expenses. [98] Adopted. Item 1.238. [99] The CHAIRMAN opened the discussion on item 1.233 (Sending of missions of experts to examine the problems raised by the application of the principle of free and compulsory schooling). [100] The SECRETARY read the Budget Com- mittee's comments on that item: ©©ه11[8-08 The Programme Commission will have to decide how many missions and advisers Unesco can place at the disposal of Member States. The Budget Committee considers it unnecessary to send members of the Secretariat to prepare for the arrival of these missions.
(101] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu- cation) said that two missions of experts were pro- posed. With regard to the observation that it was unnecessary to send members of the Secretariat to prepare for missions, he pointed out that such preliminary work was extremely important and ultimately resulted in a saving of time and money. By taking charge of practical matters, such as housing and the procuring of typists, the members of the Secretariat saved the experts much time, and the latter were able to start work immediately on arrival. [102] Mr. MONTANER (Uruguay) asked for some clarification regarding resolution 1.233, which, as then worded, left him in some doubt. The carrying out of that item appeared to depend upon possible requests by Member States for technical assistance in the application of the principle of compulsory education. Mr. Montaner would therefore be interested to know on what data the total sum of $108,080, provided for in the draft resolution, was based. In his opinion, countries requesting such assistance should themselves participate to the fullest possible extent. He therefore suggested that a sub- stantial cut should be made in the sum proposed. [103] Mr. SHARIF (Pakistan) observed that Unesco’s growing importance was in no small measure due to its increasing preoccupation with the lot of the common man. Fundamental education, adult education and free and compulsory schooling projects, all calculated to raise the standard of living of the common man, should therefore be given high priority. He was surprised, for that reason, that certain delegations should oppose missions to help underdeveloped countries to improve their edu- cational plans. Vast numbers of people in South East Asia lacked the benefit of free and compulsory education and needed Unesco’s help, and Mr. Sharif did not see why they should have to pay for privileges to which they were entitled as Member States of Unesco. In his opinion, two missions were inadequate and their number should be increased, even if that involved increasing the budget estimate. He endorsed the Secretariat’s view that there should be no cut on preliminary work by members of the Secretariat. [104] Mr. SARGEANT (United States of America) asked whether, as the location of the two missions had not been fixed, the total cost could not be reduced in some way.    A ‏ ت ح د م , و و ب — N E S е т и
281 PROGRAMME [105] Mr. CHOUKOUR WALI (Afghanistan) thought that two missions were inadequate, and pro- posed that the appropriation for the item should be increased. [106] Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia) supported the remarks of the delegates of Afghanistan and Pakistan. He agreed that two missions were inadequate. As science and culture depended on education, edu- cational projects should be given priority. [107] Mrs. PECSON (Philippines) recalled that her country had received an educational mission in 1948 and had derived much benefit from it. Her dele- gation hoped that any reduction made under the item would be as small as possible. [108] Mr. MONTANER (Uruguay) said that the arguments just presented, with the exception of the Philippine representative's remarks, had not convinced him. He emphasized that he was not opposed to free and compulsory education, and reminded the meeting that it had existed in Uruguay for a long time. He believed, notwithstanding, that the carrying out of the item under discussion depended on financial considerations, and he did not understand why Unesco's assistance was required. [109] Mr. ABRAHAM (France) stated that France was in favour of the educational missions under discussion. He wondered whether steps could not be taken to have them financed out of the Technical Assistance budget. [110] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL was surprised, after three years of success, to hear delegates still expressing doubts as to the usefulness of such missions, which had produced tangible and undeniably good results. [111] The preliminary visit by members of the Secretariat, which some delegates thought unneces- sary, enabled Unesco to select qualified technicians in advance and to determine the field to be covered, so that the missions could start work immediately they arrived, without losing time in making all kinds of preliminary investigations. [112] The Director-General agreed withthe delegate of Uruguay, but experience had shown that certain States asked for Unesco’s help, for example, in pro- curing data for estimating teachers’ salaries, or in organizing their educational system on a more rational basis. If the Urugayan delegate’s views were accepted, there would be no point in the conference of educationalists planned by Unesco. A Commission of the United Nations had prepared a preliminary draft Covenant on Human Rights; Member States signing the Covenant would undertake to ensure that their national bodies adopted a system of free and com- pulsory schooling. It was obviously essential for Unesco missions of experts or technical advisers to COMMISSION IV-3 help them to work out such a system, and any curtailing of that activity would run counter to one of Unesco’s chief aims. He therefore urged that the budget estimate for the item should not be reduced. If it were thought preferable, there could of course be three missions with three members, instead of two missions with five members, but he would definitely prefer the latter arrangement. [113] It would be dangerous to transfer a perma- nent activity to the Technical Assistance programme, which was a temporary programme, as that transfer would entail a change of balance detrimental to the smooth running of the work. [114] Item 1.233 was put to the vote and adopted by 43 votes to 1 (Uruguay). [115] The budget estimate of $108,080 was adopted by 39 votes to 1, with 1 abstention. Items 1.241, 1.242 and 1.221. [116] Items 1.241, 1.242 and 1.2421 were adopted. Item 1.251. [117] The CHAIRMAN opened the discussion on item 1.251 (Organization, in collaboration with UN, UNICEF, WHO, and competent international organizations, of a regional conference on the prob- lems of education in relation to the mental health of children in Europe). [118] The SECRETARY read the relevant section of the Budget Committee’s report: The Committee feels that Unesco may reasonably expect other organizations (e.g. WHO) and Member States to share in the expenses in respect of the cost of surveys and the travelling expenses of delegates. As an indication, the Committee suggests reducing the appropriations for fees from $3,000 to $1,000. [119] Mr. VERNIERS (Representative of the Ex- ecutive Board) stated that the Board had studied the United States proposal to postpone the meeting. It regretted that it could not accept the proposal. Preparatory work had been undertaken in 1951, provision had been made for preliminary arrange- ments in the financial year 1952, and it was anti- cipated that the reports of the Conference would be published in 1953. Collaboration with UN. UNICEF and various Specialized Agencies had been organized. The European regional conference in question was a very important project and one which ought not to be deferred. It was natural that Unesco, as the Specialized Agency most interested in the project, should bear the largest part of the costs. [120] The SECRETARY read the following two
3     IV-3 PROGRAMME amendments proposed by the Italian delegation (documents 6C/DR/53 and 6C/DR/59): [121] (a) In the last line of the text of the resolution, for “children” read: “persons within the educable age- groups”. At the end, add: including the problem of maladjusted children, and on that of the relationship between home and school education. [122] (b) At the beginning of the text, insert “I”. At the end, add:
2. To encourage the establishment and development by all Member States of Schools of Social Service, and to promote collaboration between Member States in the exchange of information and technical resources and in the organization of meetings and regional seminars to improve the training and use of the services of social welfare workers. [123] Mr. SARGEANT (United States of America) stated that his delegation did not consider that re- solution 1.251 was a top priority project; there was a need for something more than vague expectations of assistance from other organizations. Unesco, with its budgetary difficulties, should not take the lead in a project for the implementation of which no other offers of financial assistance had been made. He therefore proposed that the conference should be postponed, thus effecting a saving of $25,000. [124] Miss HOWELL (World Health Organization) stated that WHO had helped in the planning of the project since the beginning. She spoke of the close co-operation which existed between Unesco and WHO, it being Unesco’s task to bring to the teachers WHO's advice on the mental health aspects of education. [125] Sir Arcot L. MUDALIAR (India) thought that it was primarily for WHO and its mental health committees to consider problems of education in relation to children’s mental health; afterwards, it would be Unesco’s task to pass the information on to teachers. There should be further consultations between WHO and Unesco on the best way of achieving their common objective. [126] In view of the importance and urgency of the problem, Mr. CALO (Italy) entirely agreed with the proposal contained in the resolution. [127] Mr. SANDBO (Norway) agreed with the United States delegate in thinking that an economy on the project under consideration would do less harm than elsewhere in the educational programme. [128] Miss HOWELL (World Health Organization) COM MT ES TON 282 thanked the Indian delegate for his suggestion that WHO should take the lead in that field, but she had received instructions from the Director-General of WHO to support Unesco’s plans for the Conference and to state that WHO was ready to supply Unesco with all the technical advice it required. [129] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu- cation) thought thatthere was no case for postponing the conference on the grounds that Unesco was not in touch with WHO. The two organizations had been in close contact since the beginning, and a small conference on the project was to be held in September, to which Unesco, at its own expense, was inviting WHO representatives.” Mr. Elvin pointed out that it was not practicable for the cost of an operation to be divided jointly between two agencies, on account of the different dates of their General Conferences and of the adoption of their programmes and budgets. The United Nations Administrative Committee on Co-ordination had ruled that, in the case of a joint project, the Special- ized Agency most directly concerned should take the lead. In the case in question, it was the doctors and mental health specialists who were being asked to co-operate with Unesco in a project which was primarily concerned with education. [130] With regard to the United States delegate’s remarks, Mr. Elvin recalled that it was the United States delegation in Florence which had urged Unesco to do two things for children: (1) to extend its programme of assistance to all children, and not only to war-handicapped children; and (2) to plan activities on behalf of children in longer terms. The Secretariat, in the resolution before the Com- mission, had tried to do both those things. It was hoped, with a stable budget of $60,000, to be able to make progress, over a number of years and in close co-operation with WHO, in work connected with the education and special problems of children. [131] In conclusion, Mr. Elvin stated that the Secretariat could propose a slight cut of $5,259 in respect of a temporary post and fees. [132] The CHAIRMAN took a vote on the principle of holding the regional conference. [133] The principle was adopted by 13 votes to 9 with 3 abstentions. [134] The CHAIRMAN put the proposed reduction of $5,259 to the vote. [135] Adopted by 17 votes to 3, with 4 absten- tions. The meeting rose at 7.10 p.m. — » A J E . ح ح ص ي ح ح ا ‎ S E O D E E J E с е е т ا ل ح ل خ ي ‎ { T T T L T T , [ T I N L T e n L E E