625 BUDGET from the programme, which explained the reduction of $7,400, whereas the addition of $3,000 resulted] from the adoption of a new resolution submitted by! the Norwegian delegation. T TWENTY-SECOND COMM I TT EE [62] The revised estimates for items 4.53 and ‚54 were adopted. The meeting rose at noon. MEETING Wednesday, 4 July 1951, at 10.30 a.m. Chairman: Mr. F. Benner (Netherlands) [1] The CHAIRMAN announcedthat the Programme Commission was about to begin its second review of the Programme, with a view to effecting the further necessary reduction of approximately three per cent, and that the Rapporteur of the Budget Committee would present the Committee’s advice on that ques- tion. [2] The Chairman then referred to the problem of the Committee’s structure, membership and terms of reference. He had already raised the matter in the General Committee, and had been informed that a document on the subject (document 6C/PRO/3) was to be discussed by the Procedure Committee. On his proposal, it had been agreed to postpone the discus- sion until Monday, 9 July, and to hold, at that time, à joint meeting of the Procedure and Budget Com- mittees. That would allow time for the Budget Committee to discuss and formulate its proposals. In that connexion, the Chairman suggested that a meeting of the Drafting Committee should be held to prepare proposals for discussion by the full Com- mittee. [3] The suggested procedure was agreed. Examination of the Reductions Proposed by the Programme Commission (continuation). Statistical Service. ITEMS 8.22 AND 8.23. [4] Mr. LIU (Head, Statistical Service) said that the recommendations made in the Budget Com- mittee’s preliminary report (document 6C/BUD/1, page 25) had been noted by the Secretariat. By post- poning the conference proposed in draft resolution
8.23 until 1953, it would be possible for the Secre- tariat staff to undertake the preparatory work, obviat- ing the necessity for fees for that purpose. Mr. Liu had, therefore, proposed elimination of the sum of $4,200 for cousultants, consultants’ travel, and dele- gates’ travel for the meeting, and that proposal had been adopted by the Programme Commission. [5] A further reduction of $2,000 had been re- commended by the Secretariat on the subvention to the International Statistical Institute for work on statistical education (item 8.22). That proposal had also been adopted by the Programme Commission, making a total reduction in the Service of $6,200. [6] The CHAIRMAN noted that the total reduction for the Statistical Service amounted to only seven per cent instead of nine per cent. [7] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) mentioned that the Administrative Commission’s decisions with regard to salaries were not yet known. If the result were an increase in the estimates for staff remuneration, then the whole budget would have to be revised so as to balance that increase by fresh reductions on other items. He considered that that possibility should be brought to the notice of all heads of Departments. [8] The SECRETARYexplained that the new reduc- tion of 3.1 per cent had been calculated on the assumption that the Director-General’s proposals with regard to salary and allowance scales would be accepted. That course had been adopted since it was the most expensive solution, and any other decision would result in decreased estimates. The percentage reduction would not therefore be increased by the Administrative Commission’s decision on the matter. [9] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) asked whether, in view of the apparent reduction of activi- ties in the Statistical Service, the provision for two temporary posts in 1952 was still necessary. [10] Mr. LIU (Head, Statistical Service) replied       VIII-22 BUDGET that, although the proposed conference had been postponed until 1953, the provision of fees for the preparatory work had also been eliminated, with a consequent increase in the workload of the Secre- tariat. [11] Mr. Liu emphasized that an increasing number of Secretariat problems required statistical advice. A primary example was the cost-of-living adjustment and the United Nations salary differential. The Statistical Service had been called upon to prepare figures for that matter and was required to keep the situation constantly under review. It was also pos- sible that a statistical evaluation of the Special Funda- mental Education Project would be required. There was, therefore, no possibility of a decrease in the workload of the Service, in spite of the programme and budgetary reductions made. [12] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) did not doubt the usefulness of the Statistical Service and of the work it was doing, but thought it necessary to guard against a tendency to increase the Service dis- proportionately. For instance, if Unesco had to produce full statistics on fundamental education, the Statistical Service would become as big as the Funda- mental Education Division itself. [13] Mr. Guignolet also recalled that the United Nations had already set up a service to work out scales to cover fluctuations in the cost-of-living index, and he thought that Unesco might very well use that source of information. [14] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) noted that the permanent staff of the Service was being increased by 50 per cent, from eight to 12, in 1952. Any increase in the workload could, therefore, be absorbed without further provision for temporary posts. He had previously been prepared to accept the provision for such temporary posts to meet the requirements of peak periods but, in view of the reduced activities of the Service, he felt that such peak periods would in future be less frequent. [15] Mr. LIU (Head, Statistical Service) emphasized that his Service could not control its workload, but was entirely at the disposal of other Departments and Bureaux. The Service had been established to meet the statistical requirements of the Organization, and requests for information could not be refused. With regard to the apparent increase of 50 per cent in personnel, he explained that the eight posts pro- vided in the 1951 Budget Estimates had been requested in order to establish the Service. The experience of a few months’ operation had led him to ask the Director-General’s authorization to estab- lish two further posts, as a minimum requirement, so that the existing staff of the Service numbered 10, and an increase of only two was requested for 1952. [16] The CHAIRMAN suggested that the Committee COMMIT TEE 626 should note the possibility of cutting out the proposed temporary posts as an emergency measure, if necessary. [17] That proposal was adopted and the revised estimates for the Service were approved. Department of Mass Communication. IMPROVEMENT OF MEANS AND TECHNIQUES OF COMMUNI- CATION. ITEM 6.121. [18] Mr. FARR (Deputy Director, Department of Mass Comunication) explained that, as a result of the observations made by the Budget Committee in ifs preliminary report (document 6C/BUD/1, page 21), the Director of the Department had proposed parti- tion of the four suggested studies between 1952 and
1953, two only to be carried out in 1952. A reduc- tion of $28,000 on the estimates presented in Table X, would therefore be possible. That action had been approved by the Programme Commission. Item 6.13. [19] Mr. Farr drew attention to the addilional estimate of $5,000 for the item which had been entailed by the adoption of the proposal contained in document 6C/DR/12 (subvention to the World Braille Council). The Programme Commission had agreed that the sum in question could be provided by reducing the provision for Assistance to Member States pro tanto. The subvention did, in any case, represent a form of assistance to Member States. [20] The revised estimates were approved by the Committee. ITEM 6.12. [21] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) asked whether the Budget Committee's remarks on the Canadian Farm Forum had been noted by the Pro- gramme Commission. [22] Mr. FARR (Deputy Director, Department of Mass Communication) replied that the item had not been discussed at all in that Commission. [23] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France), drawing upon information which he had obtained privately, pointed out that the financial assistance given by the Cana- dian Government to encourage the broadcasting of the “Canadian Farm Forum” was given chiefly because of Unesco’s interest in the programme. If Unesco reduced the appropriations requested for à survey of the work accomplished by the “Canadian    EUD ET627 Farm Forum”, the Canadian Government might lose interest in the broadcast. [24] The French delegate did not imagine that the Commission would like that to happen. He would be glad to hear the Canadian delegation’s point of view. REMOVAL OF OBSTACLES TO THE FREE FLOW OF INFORMATION. ITEM 6.23. [25] Mr. FARR (Deputy Director, Department of Mass Communication) explained that the initial reduction of $6,253 on established posts and related indirect personnel costs was a result of the agreement to reorganize the Legal Service and suppress one Grade 12 post in the Department of Mass Com- munication. [26] Reductions of $3,500 on contractual printing and $800 on a temporary post for four months had been proposed in the Programme Commission. It had been felt, however, that, as it was unlikely that both the international agreements would become operative in 1952, it would be necessary in 1952 to produce only one manual and that, therefore, the provision for printing could be halved. ITEM 6.25. [27] Mr. Farr explained that many delegations in the Programme Commission had felt that no further reductions should be made in the actual programme activities of the Mass Communication Department. It had been thought that postponement until 1953 of the meeting of experts to review the programme of work would have less serious consequences, and that had therefore been agreed, the budgetary economy amounting to $6,400. [28] The revised estimates under the heading were adopted. [29] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) asked Whether the Budget Committee's remarks on the project entitled “Circulation of persons travelling for educational, scientific or cultural purposes” had been noted by the Programme Commission. He felt strongly that the project was incapable of fulfilment, since it would never be possible to obtain agreement between Member States as to the category of person who should travel on educational, scientific and cultural matters. [30] Mr. FARR (Deputy Director, Department of Mass Communication) replied that, although a special document had been provided on that project, no discussion thereon had taken place in the Programme Commission, possibly because the sum requested —82,700—was negligible. COMMITTEE VIII-22 [31] The CHAIRMAN noted that the overall reduc- tion in the Department was already 10.4 per cent, but thought the Committee might note the pos- sibility of a further reduction, as outlined by the United Kingdom delegate. [32] Agreed. [33] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) asked whether the Programme Commission had discussed the activities proposed under the heading “Action and studies to promote the free flow of information” [document
6C/5 (ID, p. 211]. He observed that it was pro- posed to publish three studies in 1952, but that publication would depend on Unesco representatives being sent to attend various meetings organized by the United Nations, the Specialized Agencies and other organizations. From conversations which he himself had held with Mr. Schneider, Director of the Department of Mass Communication, it appeared that no provision had yet been made for those representatives to travel. The French delegate con- sidered that fresh reductions under the item might be considered and submitted to the Budget Com- mittee on the second reading. [34] Mr. FARR (Deputy Director, Department of Mass Communication) replied that, in view of the large percentage reduction already accepted by the Department, Mr. Schneider had not proposed a cut in the item to the Programme Commission. He would, however, bear the point in mind as a possible area for reduction during the second review of the programme. [35] The CHAIRMAN said that the Budget Com- mittee would also note the point in its report. [36] In reply to a question from the United King- dom delegate, Mr. FARR (Deputy Director, Depart- ment of Mass Communication) explained that a post at Grade 16, the same level as the head of Division, had always existed in the Press Division. It was only in the current year, however, during the gen- eral reorganization of the Division, that the functions of the post had been classified as those of Chief Editor. He felt there was entire justification for the post in addition to the three ordinary editors em- ployed, and said that the incumbent was required to possess a perfect knowledge of either French: or English, a very good knowledge of the other language, and some knowledge of Spanish. Usk or THE MEANS OF COMMUNICATION. Press. ITEM 6.321. [37] Mr. Farr said that on the proposal of the    VIII-22 BUDGET Department Director, the Programme Commission had agreed to the deletion of the four posts proposed for a German language unit, together with the consequent suppression of funds for the German edition of the Courier. The total saving thus achieved was $30,142. In addition, it was proposed to reduce by $5,600 the provision for fees for articles for the press and the Courier. [38] In reply to a question from Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) regarding the Programme Commission's decisions on document 6C/PRG/16, (General Policy of Unesco in the Field of Publications) Mr. FARR said that no reference had been made to the document during the discussion of the Mass Communication programme. During the discussion on the Docu- ments and Publications Service, the Chairman had requested comments on the document and, as there were none, had considered it adopted. [39] The revised estimates were approved. RADIO. ITEM 6.322. [40] Mr FARR (Deputy Director, Department of Mass Communication) said that both reductions under that resolution had been proposed by the Department Director and accepted by the Programme Commission. No further reductions had been pro- posed under it. [41] The revised estimates under the heading were approved. FILM AND VISUAL INFORMATION. ITEM 6.323. [42] Mr. FARR (Deputy Director, Department of Mass Communication) recalled that two separate activities were proposed under that resolution. The first, providing for three exhibitions to be prepared for transmission to Member States, had been main- tained. The second, which was a special project for installing exhibitions at some of the main airports of the world, had been cut out on the proposal of the Dpeartment Director. The total saving would amount to $15,000. [43] The reduced estimate was approved. [44] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) thanked the Di- rector of the Department of Mass Communication for the suggestions he had made concerning the budget for his Department. [45] In reply to a question from Mr. RAADI (Iran), the CHAIRMAN said that the reduction of the budget C'OMMUI TEE 628 for Mass Communication equalled 10.4 per cent of the original estimates. Exchange of Persons Service. CLEARING House or INFORMATION AND PROMOTION oF EXCHANGE OF PERSONS. ITEM 5,23. [46] Mr. KADHIM (Deputy Head, Exchange of Persons Service) said that, in the light of the re- commendations contained in the preliminary report of the Budget Committee (document 6C/BUD/I, page 19) together with the report of the Working Party, a total reduction of $31,000 had been made in the contracts with non-governmental organizations, travel grants to workers, and travel grants to teachers as shown. The Programme Commission felt, how- ever, that no further reductions should be made under that resolution. [47] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) asked whether, in view of the reductions effected in grants and contracts, it was proposed to reduce the per- sonnel of the Service. [48] Mr. KADHIM (Deputy Head, Exchange of Persons Service) explained that the grants for workers would, in any case, have been administered by the appropriate international organizations, so that the workload of the Service would not be affected bytheir reduction. [49] The CHAIRMAN noted that the staff of the Service was being increased from 11 members in
1951 to 15 in 1952. [50] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) pointed out that, in addition, provision was made for a temporary post for nine months under the heading “Exchange Pro- grammes for Teachers” [document 6C/5(11) р. 191]. It should not be necessary to provide for a temporary post in addition to the increased permanent per sonnel. [51] Mr. KADHIM (Deputy Head, Exchange of Persons Service) explained that one additional post was required for each of the following tasks: the Western Hemisphere Office, exchange programmes for workers, university courses and youth activities, £ The temporary posts were required to assist during peak periods in the programmes for exchanges of teachers, young people, and workers, and in the preparations for the publication of Study Abroad. [52] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) did not understand the necessity for extra temporary assist- ance in the preparation of Study Abroad, since I was an annual publication requiring only annual    B'UDGET revision before printing. Having ascertained from Mr. Kadhim that only the final revision and co- ordination of the publication was undertaken by the Service, translation being done elsewhere, he said that he would raise the question again during the discussion on the Documents and Publications Ser- vice. [53] The CHAIRMAN suggested that the Committee should note the possibility of effecting a further economy by the suppression of the temporary post, should that be necessary. [64] Agreed. The revised estimates under the heading were adopted. Unesco UNIVERSITY COURSES. ITEM 5.24. [55] Mr. KADHIM (Deputy Head, Exchange of Persons Service) explained that a reduction of $10,000 in the expenses of both teams of lecturers had been achieved by requesting the host university to meet secretarial and interpreting expenses, and by a reduction in the salaries of the lecturers. [56] The CHAIRMAN waspleased to note that the Budget Committee's recommendation had been fol- lowed. [67] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) pointed out that, if the host university itself provided interpreting and secretarial services, the estimated appropriations of $3,500 and $2,000 for the cost of the services during | the organization of each course could be cancelled. Further, if the Egyptian delegate did not object, he thought that the salary of the senior and assistant professors might be reduced by $2,000 each, and that of the assistants by $1,000. That would result in a further reduction of $10,000, which, added to that of the: $10,000 already arranged, would mean a total reduction of $20,000 on the two courses. Mr. Guignolet believed that those suggestions ought to be examined on the second reading of the budget estimates rather than at that moment. [58] Mr. EL. DIWANY (Egypt) agreed with the French delegate, but thought it should be mentioned in the report that the project for university courses ( Was accepted with the first suggested reduction, but that other reductions might be proposed by the Director-General, according to local circumstances and resources. Sometimes it might happen that a professor could be engaged locally to fill the func- tions of the assistant; allowance should be made for great flexibility in implementing the project. [59] Mr. KADHIM (Deputy Head, Exchange of Persons Service) pointed out that the original sum COMMITTEE VIII-22 proposed for the salaries of each team had been $34,000. The Secretariat had reduced that to $28,500 and the Programme Commission had made a further reduction to $24,000. He feared that, if further reductions were made, the effectiveness of the whole project would be diminished. [60] The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the Com- mittee was not at the moment making definite pro- posals, but merely indicating areas where possible further savings could, if necessary, be made. He felt that Unesco’s reputation might suffer if its salary scales were fixed on too high a basis. FELLOWSHIPS AND INTERNATIONAL ScHOLARSHIP FUND. [61] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) thought the atten- tion of the Programme Commission might be drawn to another point. The Budget Committee had already explained that appropriations for the payment of fellowships had been calculated on a rather broad basis. The possibility of increasing the number of fellowships covered by the appropriations should be examined. [62] Mr. KADHIM (Deputy Head, Exchange of Persons Service) said that the Secretariat could not agree that the sums allowed for fellowships were too high. In that connexion, Unesco followed very closely the scale fixed by the United Nations and applied by all other Specialized Agencies. If a particular scholarship cost less than the normal amount, the additional funds were put into a common travel pool to enable students to be brought from distant countries. [63] With regard to the Budget Committee’s remark in its preliminary report that the proposed grant to the International Scholarship Fund might not be appropriate since Unesco was a member of the Fund, Mr. Kadhim pointed out that Unesco was not a member organization. [64] In reply to Mr. RAADI (Iraq), Mr. Kadhim said that an additional sum of $20,000 had been requested precisely for the purpose of extending the duration of certain fellowships from six to nine months. He had made it clear that it could not be done without further budgetary provision. [65] The revised estimates under the heading were approved. Rehabilitation Service. TEME2 IST [66] Mr. BARGER (Head, Rehabilitation Service) recalled that the Budget Committee had queried two items: (a) the sum of $25,000 for special projects, and (b) the possibility of financing the Middle East      VIII-22 BUDGET programme from other sources and effecting a saving of $90,000. Elimination of the first sum had been approved by the Programme Commission. A further reduction of $2,000 on travel costs had also been made. It had been felt, however, that the moment was not opportune for the abrupt transfer of the Middle East project, as had been suggested by the Budget Committee. The United States delegate had proposed that future policy in the field concerned should be discussed with the United Nations. [67] The Programme Commission had also had to discuss the revised work plan and budget for the Service contained in the United Kingdom resolution (document 6C/DR/5 Rev.). No decision had yet been reached, as it had been felt the Budget Com- mittee should first report on the proposed estimates for the revised work plan. Mr. Barger felt that the problem required serious discussion. The Secretariat agreed with the revised work plan, as it was only a matter of drafting, but could not accept the pro- posed budgetary reductions without serious con- sequences to the programme. The new Gift Coupon Scheme might have to be dropped, or, at any rate, seriously curtailed. The Secretariat would propose finding the further percentage reduction required in other parts of the Service’s budget. [68] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) recalled that the estimates for the Rehabilitation Service showed an appreciable reduction on the 1951 figures, since the total figure was $290,000 instead of $356,000 in 1951, but he was astonished to read in the revised draft that it was proposed to employ a staff of 27 on the smaller budget against 26 in 1951. He had also referred to the estimates prepared for the Florence Conference and found that the posts totalled 22, not
96. Two of those 22 were to have been abolished, which meant that the Rehabilitation Service should have had 20 posts in 1951. [69] Mr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) paid tribute to the work accomplished by the Rehabilitation Service in reducing its estimates to $290,000 and accepting the prospect of a new cut of 3.5 per cent as well. As Mr. Barger had promised to achieve the new reduction on other items, it would be neither generous nor wise, in Mr. El Diwany’s opinion, to force him to make it on personnel costs. The Secretariat should be allowed to reshape the budget for the Rehabilitation Service in the way least harmful to it. COMMITTEE [70] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) agreed with the Egyptian delegate. It had always to be remembered that the Rehabilitation Service performed one of the most prominent of Unesco's activities, and thatits programme rather than its personnel should be increased. [71] Mr. BARGER (Head, Rehabilitation Service) replied that no actual increase in staff would take place. It was true that the work camps project had been removed from the Rehabilitation Service after the Fifth Session, but the original Book Coupon Scheme had been transferred to the Service from the Department of Cultural Activities and was being organized as the new Gift Coupon project. It would be seen from page 9 of document 6C/5 (II) Corr. IV that the actual number of posts in the Service in
1951 was 25, since the post for a programmeassistant for Korea had not been filled, owing to the unavoid- able delay in executing the Korean programme. In addition, there were two temporary posts which had been in existence for a full year. It was the con- version of those into permanent posts that accounted for the apparent increase of two in 1952. In actual fact, no additional staff would be engaged. [72] In reply to Mr. EL DIWANY (Egypt), Mr. BARGER (Head of the Rehabilitation Service) said that the Unesco Coupon Scheme had been a part of the Rehabilitation Service for only six months. lt was run by Mr. Zuckerman, who was also Deputy Head of the Rehabilitation Service. The Scheme had first come under the Department of Cultural Activi- ties, so that there had been no new posts, but only a transfer of existing ones. [73] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) expressed satisfac- tion at that explanation and withdrew the remarks he had made when under the impression that there would be an increase in the staff of the Rehabilitation Service. [74] The Committee unanimously agreed that there was no need to return to the subject at future meetings. [75] After further discussion, it was agreed to con- sider in detail the new budgetary proposals contained in document 6C/DR/5 (Rev.) at the next meeting. The meeting rose at 12.56 p.m. h a n