AD MINTS ERATIVE COMM TS SHTON THIRD MEETING Saturday, 28 June 1951, at 10.30 a.m. Chairman: Baron van der STRATEN-WAILLET (Belgium) [1] The CHAIRMAN announced that the General Committee had requested the different Commissions to set up working parties only for the study of precise and clearly defined questions. The General Committee asked that all such working parties should be appointed as soon as possible. It hoped that they would be few in number and that they would not have more than 12 members. The General Com- mittee also thought that the working parties should be able, whenever necessary, to consult with other members of the Commission to which they belonged, as well as with any delegate or observer at the General Conference. Report of the Working Party on the Scale of Contributions. [2] Mr. HOCKIN (Canada) said that the Working Party on the scale of contributions had studied the principles to be followed in assessing those Member States which were not Members of the United Nations. It recommended that a standing committee of the General Conference should be established to deal with the matter, taking the report of the United Nations Committee on Contributions as a basis, and consulting with representatives of the Governments concerned, should they so desire. A resolution to that effect would be submitted for adoption by the Administrative Commission. [3] The Working Party had then considered speci- fically the assessment of those Member States for
1951 and 1952. Time had not permitted detailed study of the problem, and a resolution had, therefore, been prepared recommending that the current assessments for 1951 should be confirmed; that for
1952 the assessments should be made on the basis of the figures given by the United Nations Committee on Contributions; and that, where two figures were given, the lower should be adopted. [4] Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) then read the first resolution submitted by the Working Party for adoption by the Commission as followed: The Administrative Commission Recommends that at each Session of the General Con- ference a Standing Committee be constituted to discuss, in the light of the recommendations of the United Nations Committee on Contributions, the percentage assessments of new Member States and States who are not Members of the United Nations, in consultation with representatives of the Governments concerned, if they so desire, and to report to the Administrative Commission. It being understood that the Member States concerned would be supplied beforehand by the Secretariat with the documentation supplied by the United Nations Com- mittee on Contributions. [5] Although he did not wish to change the wording of the resolution that had just been read, Mr. de CLEMENTI (Italy) thought that the necessary docu- mentation should be despatched to Member States two months in advance. He asked the Secretariat to take note of his suggestion. [6] Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) replied that documentation would, in any case, be sent to Member States at the same time as the documents for the General Conference. He thought that the procedure would be satisfactory to the delegate of Italy. [7] The above resolution was adopted unanimously. [8] Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) then read the second resolution submitted by the Working Party, which he suggested should be voted on in two parts. [9] Mr. Harper-Smith also gave the existing percent- age assessments for the States in question for 1951. The resolution read as follows: The Administrative Commission Recommends that the assessments made on Austria, Hungary and Italy for the year 1951 be confirmed, and Recommends that, for the year 1952, the assessment of non-members of the United Nations be based on the figures given by the United Nations Committee on Con- tributions, and that, in those cases where a range has been given, the lower figure be adopted. [10] The assessments for 1951 were: Austria: 0.30; Cambodia: 0.04; Ceylon: 0.15; German Federal Republic: 3.25; Hashemite Jordan: 0.05; Hungary:
0.35; Italy: 2.95; Japan: 1.60; Korea: 0.16; Laos: 0.04; Monaco: 0.04; Switzerland: 1.50; Viet Nam: 0.10. Mr. ZEISSL (Austria) pointed out that it was most difficult for Member States to accept increases [11]    STRAT EYE COMMISSION VII-3ل‏ in their Unesco contributions after their national budgets had been established. [12] The CHAIRMAN put the first part of the Working Party’s draft resolution to the vote, and it was adopted. [18] The Chairman then asked the Commission to vote on the second part of the draft resolution. [14] Mr. HAGIWARA (Japan), speaking on behalf of his delegation, stated that Japan would undertake all the obligations incumbent upon it as a Member State of Unesco. The Japanese Government was ready to start paying its contribution from the third quarter of 1951 at the latest, as soon as the instrument of acceptance had been deposited. The Japanese Government would accept the rate of contribution fixed by Unesco. He wished, however, to draw the Commission's attention to Japan's current economic difficulties, and requested the Commission to assess Japan at the lowest possible percentage. If it was compatible with Unesco's budgetary situation, the Japanese Government would like, as an exceptional measure, to obtain a reduction in the percentage of its contribution. The Japanese delegate asked for an explanation of the “theoretical probable percentage” established by the United Nations Committee on Contributions. [15] Mr. Hagiwara emphasized that, according to Annex II of document 6C/ADM/3, the Committee had to take into account, not only comparative estimates of national income, but also the following factors: (a) comparative income per head of population; (b) temporary dislocation of national economies arising out of the second world war; (€) theability of Members to secure foreign currency. He asked whether or not account had been taken of those three criteria in fixing Japan's percentage. If it had, a request for a reduction would mean asking that the criteria should be applied a second time; if not, however, the request would be justified, and it would be for the Commission to apply thecriteria, particu- larly the last two. In conclusion, the Japanese delegate recalled that the same question had been raised during the General Conference of WHO. The reply in that instance had been that the figure supplied for Japan by the United Nations had not taken account of criteria (b) and (c) and, con- sequently, Japan had obtained a reduction of 20 per cent on its contribution for 1951. [16] Mr. ZEISSL (Austria) pointed out that, at its Twenty-Fifth Session, the Executive Board had agreed to accept the lower percentage figure for the 1951 Austrian contribution. Having been informed by the Secretariat that the resolution under consideration proposed the re-establishment of the higher figure of 0.30 per cent, Mr. Zeissl protested that his Government did not feel such action was justified at the present time. It agreed with the United Nations Committee on Contributions that the improved eco- nomic position of Austria warranted an increase in its percentage contribution, but felt that the assessment of 0.30 per cent was too high, and, moreover, that no increase should be made until 1953. If his country were required to pay the higher rate for
1951 and 1952, it would be forced to curtail its own national cultural programme. Austria had not had the opportunity to present its case before the United Nations Committee on Contributions. He appealed for the same reduction for 1952 as had been granted his country in 1951—i.e. from 0.30 to 0.14—and moved a resolution to that effect. [17] Mr. MASON (New Zealand) said that the delegate of Japan had suggested that, in the assess- ment of his country’s percentage contributions, two particular criteria had not been taken into account by the Committee on Contributions. As a member of the Working Group on the assessment of Japan, he felt sure it was not so and that there was a misunderstanding. [18] Mr. KUPPERS (German Federal Republic) reiterated his country’s determination to fulfil to the utmost all its obligations towards Unesco, but, in view of the difficult economic position of Western Germany, he sought permission to present a special case in the matter of assessment of contributions, either to the Administrative Commission or to its Working Party. [19] Mr. de CLEMENTI (Italy) asked whether, in preparing the scale of contributions for 1952, account had been taken of Austrias reduced rate of assessment or of the new percentage proposed for it. [20] Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) replied that the scale of contributions for 1952 had not yet been established; the Commission had to take a decision on that subject. [21] The CHAIRMAN observed that, as the Austrian delegate’s motion had not been seconded, it could not be put to the vote. [22] The Chairman put to the vote the second part of the draft resolution, which was adopted. Methods of Financing the Budget for 1952 (continuation). [23] In reply to questions from Mr. INGRAM (United States of America), Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) said that the total estimated cash surplus for 1949, after liquidation of all liabilities, would be $60,000. That did not include the con- e e E E E     E s = E T E           VII-3 tribution for 1949 which Argentina proposed to pay in French francs, which, when received, would add a further $168,000 to the cash surplus for that year. The contributions of new Member States towards the
1951 budget were expected to result in a surplus of $280,000 at the end of the year. [24] In reply to further questions from Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom), Mr. Harper- Smith said that the total of uncollected contributions to date was $2,300,000, but he added that a large part of that sum would eventually be received. So far as 1950 was concerned, there was not expected to be a cash surplus unless the Argentine contribution of $100,000 was received, but if there were one, it would not, in any case, be available until 1953, since constitutionally the liquidation of obligations for any one year was not completed until two years had elapsed. [25] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) pointed out that it was the responsibility of the Administrative Com- mission to indicate the percentage of contributions which it could reasonably be assumed would not be received during any financial year. [26] Mr. INGRAM (United States of America) said that in previous years the figure had been estimated at 10 per cent of the total budget, but as, in the current year, two of the non-paying countries were in danger of losing their voting rights, it should be reduced to something like 7.5 per cent for future years. [27] The CHAIRMAN informed delegates that the General Committee had been anxious that, on the following Monday morning at the latest, the Adminis- trative Commission should present its recommen- dations regarding income for the financial year 1952, with particular reference to available cash surpluses for 1952. He therefore requested the Secretariat to give the Commission information on those points. [28] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) said that he could give a mathematical list of sums which it was expected would be available from various sources, although it was not permissible for him to give any indication of how those sums should be used.
1. Estimated contributions of new Member States to the 1951 Budget— resulting in a cash surplus for the year, of $280,000.
2. Miscellaneous Income—which it was that year proposed to estimate in advance, $100,000.
3. Existing cash surplus for 1949, $60,000. Plus possible payment of 1949 contribution by Argentina $168,000. : [29] Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom) felt that ACDEM INES TRA TUVE COMMISSION enumeration of a few guiding principles would be of use to the Commission in making its report on the matter. His delegationfelt the Commission should assume that: (1) a certain amount of the assessed contributions (estimated at 7.5 per cent) would not be received; and (2) the Organization's level of activity for 1951 would be maintained in 1952. On the basis of those two assumptions, his delegation would propose submission of a report in two parts: (a) general principles; and (b) particular observa- tions on the Organization's financial position. [30] Under the first of those headings, Mr. Thompson would suggest the inclusion of two points: (1) that the Programme approved by the General Conference should be realistic in relation to the actual funds available; and (2) that expenditure for 1952 should be kept within the limits of actual income accruing from Member States’ contributions and other resources, where the latter were available without detriment to the financial position of the Organization. [81] Under the second heading, the United Kingdom delegation would suggest the inclusion of two further points: (1) that the estimated non-receipt of contri- butions for 1952 was likely to be 7.5 per cent of the total Budget; and (2) that there existed certain moneys from other sources (the estimated total could be given) which might contribute to cover that deficit. [32] In the latter calculation, the United Kingdom delegation would propose inclusion of the sum of $32,000, being the residue of the China Recon- struction Fund, which had been lying idle for some time and which, in view of all the circumstances, could be best used to help maintain the 1952 programme. [33] Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) said, that although he agreed with the general principles of Mr. Thompson's statement, he could not agree with the details. How, he asked, could the Director- General estimate in advance the total contributions which would not bereceived in any given year? He felt it would be morerealistic to indicate certain low priorities in the programme where the Director- General could effect cuts if lack of funds required reduction of activities. Furthermore, Mr. Sommerfelt thought that, as a matter ofpolicy, it was dangerous to admit that unpaid contributions could be covered by funds drawn from other sources. Knowledge of such a procedure might well encourage certain MemberStates in a difficult economic position to defer payment of their contributions. [34] The CHAIRMAN doubted whether the Com- mission was competent to lay down possible priorities within Unesco's programme. In his opinion, the Commission should concentrate on finding out what funds would be available to finance the 1952 budget.
457 [85] Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) said that, while agreeing with the Chairman’s view, he was obliged to maintain his objection to the United Kingdom delegate’s proposal to include the statement of a principle in the report. He also maintained his alternative proposal. [36] Mr. KIRPAL (India) supported the United Kingdom delegate’s remarks, and laid special stress on the assumption that the 1951 level of activities would be continued in 1952. To ensure that, his delegation would agree to the use of the miscellaneous funds outlined by the Secretariat in order to finance the 1952 programme. Under the dynamic leadership of the Director-General, the Secretariat had made such good progress that a reduction of activities at the moment would represent a very real setback. [37] Mr. MOORE (Australia) supported Mr. Sommer- felt’s view that it was dangerous to recognize in advance the possibility of default in the payment of contributions; such action might only encourage default in future years. [38] The total amount available from other sources appeared to be about $640,000, and the Australian delegation was not satisfied that that sum should be applied to the 1952 budget in addition to the normal assessments. Supposing that the total budget voted were $8,500,000, application of that additional sum would increase the total funds available to over $9,000,000. Such procedure would not be realistic, and appeared to contravene the Financial Regulations. Regulations 25 and 26 required the re-distribution of any surplus among Member States, so as to reduce their contributions for the following year, and it was evident that those regulations would have to be amended before any decision could be taken to use the various surpluses in the manner suggested. [39] Mr. Moore proposed the adoption of a budget ceiling, together with a fixed programme and indication of low-priority projects, as suggested by the delegate of Norway. [40]. Mr. INGRAM (United States of America) agreed that it was not the function of the Adminis- trative Commission to discuss the application of priorities in specific terms, but thought that it might recommend the principle that any reduction of activities due to default in the payment of contribu- tions should be made on a priority system. [41] With regard to the view that it was dangerous to admit, in advance, the possibility of non-payment, Mr. Ingram felt that the General Conference should, a In previousyears, be realistic in the matter. In any case, it was not so much a question of actual default In payment as simply of some contributions being received too late to permit the funds to be utilized for the current financial year. That left the Director- General unable to carry out the full programme approved by the General Conference, and it was for ADMINISTRATIVE VII-3COMMISSION the Conference to assist him in reaching a solution to that problem. It seemed perfectly reasonable to permit the Director-General and the Executive Board to draw on other available funds to make up deficiencies in the budget occasioned by the slow payment of contributions. The problem was really to fix the actual amount up to which funds could be drawn for that purpose. [42] Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) maintained that a system of priorities within the programme would suffice to guide the Director-General in any reduction of activities occasioned by delayed payment of contributions. He was seriously concerned about the psychological effect of admitting that funds existed to cover such budgetary deficiencies. [43] Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom) pointed out that, even under his proposal, a system of priorities might be necessary, since the total funds available from other sources would probably be insufficient to cover the deficiency resulting from delayed payments. [44] Mr. INGRAM (United States of America) supported the United Kingdom proposal and urged a realistic approach to the problem. The aim was not to increase the total budget ceiling but merely to provide the Director-General with a source from which he could draw funds to replace contributions not received during the financial year. [45] With regard to the principle of recognizing the possibility of default, Mr. MASON (New Zealand) pointed out that that had already been done in the United Nations resolution calling on Specialized Agencies to keep their expenditure down to the level “reasonably expected to be received”. Member States should be encouraged to pay promptly by the imposition of sanctions for non-payment or for delay beyond a certain limit. The New Zealand delegation felt it would be less confusing to fix the programme within the limit of the funds it was reasonably expected to receive, than to have to make adjustments according to a sliding scale of priorities. Mr. Mason thought the proposal of the United Kingdom de- legation was reasonable, and the method suggested clear. [46] Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) maintained his proposal as being more realistic and less dangerous. The Programme Commission should be recommended to work to a definite budget ceiling, but to indicate a sufficient number of low-priority projects to meet a possible budget deficiency of 7.5 per cent. [47] Mr. INGRAM (United States of America) felt that the requirements of Financial Regulations 25 and
26 would be met if it was agreed that the Organization should maintain the same level of activities in 1952     VII-4 as in 1951. Use of the surplus funds in question would then have the effect of reducing the 1952 assessments of Member States, since the Director- General would not have to request an increased budget to ensure maintenance of activities at the existing level in spite of payment deficiencies. [48] In view of the different proposals before the meeting, Mr. Ingram proposed adjournment, to ADMINITST RAT IV E COMMISSION permit the opposing groups to formulate their pro- posals in writing. That would facilitate a decision at the afternoon meeting. [49] The suggestion to adjourn the discussion was agreed. The meeting rose at 12.30 p.m. FOURTH MEETING Saturday, 23 June 1951, at 3.30 p.m. Chairman: Baron van der STRATEN-WAILLET (Belgium) Methods of Financing the Budget for 1952 (continuation). Consideration of the Resolution Presented by the Australian Delegation (document 6C/DR/44) and the Resolution Presented by the United Kingdom Delegation (document 6C/DR/45). [1] Before opening the discussion on the two resolu- tions, the CHAIRMAN explained that, when it came to voting, the United Kingdom resolution would be takenfirst, as it was furthest from existing provisions; the Commission would vote on the Australian resolu- tion only if the United Kingdom resolution was rejected. [2] The procedure suggested by the Chairman was approved. [3] Mr. MORGENSTIERNE (Norway) submitted the following draft resolution: The Administrative Commission recommends the adop- tion by the General Conference of the following resolution: The Programme should be based on the total amount of the budget of the Organization for 1952, to be paid by the Member States according to their respective assess- ments. A system should be established of first and second priorities for the items included in the pro- gramme, the latter not to be undertaken if a certain amount of the contributions is not collected in time. The part of the budget destined to cover the expenses of the items given second priority should be calculated according to previous experience by the Organization of how much of the assessed amounts may be expected to be paid for the current year. [4] The CHAIRMAN referred to Rule 78 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, which laid down that draft resolutions, if they were to be discussed and put to the vote, had to be presented in writing and within certain time-limits. [5] Mr. MORGENSTIERNE (Norway) hoped that the Chairman would regard the resolution he had just presented as an exception, but said that, in any case, he would, of course accept the Chairman's ruling. [6] The CHAIRMAN informed the Commission that the Norwegian resolution would be typed and distributed forthwith and could then be considered. [7] Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom) observed that the draft resolution presented by his delegation would not prevent the Director-General and the Executive Board from instituting priorities, if they felt it necessary to do so, in their review of the Organization's expenditure during the year. On the contrary, the second provision of the first paragraph of the resolution made it clear that the Director General and the Executive Board should keep the Organization’s expenditure under constant review and be prepared to put into effect only such part of the programme as could be financed. The United King: dom delegation considered it impossible for the General Conference, at its current session, to estab- lish such priorities for a programme which had been drawn up without that consideration in mind. [8] Inorderthat it might not appear that the United Kingdom delegation was trying to establish hard and fast rules for future years, Mr. Thompson proposed a number of minor amendments to the resolution, as follows: