521 BUDGET the Programme and Budget for 1952, and that the opinion was that the time allowance of one year was entirely adequate to allow sufficient preparation by the Secretariat, and to meet the deadlines Tuesday, 12 June 1951, at 3.30 p.m. Chairman: Mr. F. Benper (Netherlands) Examination of the Budget Estimates (con- tinuation) [document 6C/5 (IT) ]. Education (continuation) (Part III.1). EXTENSION OF EpuUCATION (continuation) (IIL.1.C). Adult Education. Regional Seminars (page 94). [1] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) noted that the estimates for services to be rendered to regional seminars, including travel expenses, amounted to $2,250. In addition, the travel expenses of persons on official business were estimated at $1,000. Where were the regional seminars to be held? What was the exact amount of the travel expenses in- volved? [2] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion) said that it was impossible to say at so early a date where the regional seminars would be held. The matter was one for the National Commissions to decide. [3] The item of $2,250 for fees and travel included travelling expenses of persons other than members of the Secretariat of Unesco. The item for Travel on Official Business referred to the travelling expenses of staff members. [4] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) wanted to know why it was proposed to send both experts and mem- bers of the Secretariat. [5] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu- cation) said that both categories had their functions and that the reduction of one item or the other would Impair the efficacy of the assistance rendered to National Commissions. GOM | | | | | | | FOURTH MEETING | MI TYEE VIII-4 | indicated by Mr. Düring for the National Com- missions. The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m. [6] The CHAIRMAN, speaking as a representative | of the Netherlands, asked whether it would not be 1 possible to depute an expert from the country con- 1 cerned, thus effecting an economy in travel expen- | diture. [7] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu- | cation) explained that sometimes certain adult ‎ل education services (e.g., relations with universities) | ] did not exist, and that in such cases it was necessary 3 to provide an outside expert. [8] Mr. RAADI (Iran) fully understood that it was impossible, at that stage, to fix the venue of the | seminars. But is was precisely for that reason that L certain criteria to guide Unesco's choice should be 4 laid down forthwith; the first point was obviously to decide which regions were in most urgent need of, and most suitable for, a project of that kind. [9] With regard to purely budgetary aspect, it was obviously impossible, until the meeting-places had been selected, to draw up any estimates, wich would, of course, depend wholly on the places chosen.   [10] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) emphasized that in 1 most cases it was impossible to foresee the scene of ١‎ activity more than a year ahead, so that the Secre- 1 tariat was obliged to make certain assumptions based ١‎ on its experience. As a rule the Secretariat's esti- Й mates proved conservative. | [11] Miss LAISE (United States of America) noted Г that the Secretariat was proposing estimates for à travel expenses for regional seminars on adult edu- A cation (page 94) and for regional seminars in educa- | tion for international understanding (page 104). | She wondered whether both purposes might not be | served by one seminar. [12] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- 1   ВОт tion) explained that such expenses could be com- bined only if the following conditions were fulfilled:
(1) seminars took place in the same country.
(2) they were held at the same time.
(3) they were on allied subjects or the same subject.
(4) there was only one expert on the subjects covered. [13] Mr. Elvin felt that it was unlikely that all those conditions would be fulfilled. In fact the subjects were quite different. The seminars on education for international understanding were to follow up the seminars on the teaching of geography and history and would require the attendance of histo- rians or geographers or professors of those subjects, whereas the seminars on adult education required the presence of teachers or administrators. [14] In viewof the numberof requests from organi- zations and National Commissions, he urged the Committee to accept a budgetary provision which would enable Unesco to encourage National Com- missions to follow up the work of seminars, and at the same time prevent constant refusal of assistance from being interpreted as lack of interest on Unesco’s part. [15] Miss LAISE (United States of America) was satisfied by the explanation supplied. [16] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) pointed out that it was proposed to hold two regional seminars. The Conference should be informed that two Member States would probably submit applications in that connexion. The funds requested, therefore, simply represented an estimate, and the expenditure in- volved would not in fact be contracted until Unesco received two firm applications. [17] Mr. EL DIWANY(Egypt) thought a statement should be made to the effect that it was a case of “possible” expenditure. [18] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion) hoped that the Committee would not take that view, indicating that the Member States were pro- tected by the Executive Board, which would know if savings were made; without its consent, no addi- tional credit could be obtained. The Secretariat should be allowed a degree of flexibility within those limits. [19] The CHAIRMAN, speaking as a representative of the Netherlands, agreed with the representatives of France and Egypt. Until the place of the seminars was known, no accurate budget estimates could be made. [20] Mr. TAYLOR (Deputy Director-General) reminded the meeting that the question was largely COMMITTEE one of expediency. The Committee had three courses open to it:
(1) To establish a reserve fund.
(2) To accept the estimates in the form pro- posed; or
(3) To reject the proposed estimates without providing an alternative solution, in which case Unesco would have to wait almost two years (four if biennial conferences were held) for money to be voted. [21] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) said that it should, obviously be stated that the estimates were only pro- visional, against the event of two Member countries asking for regional seminars to be organized in their territory. If, however, applications were to come from Japan or from one of the South American countries, the relevant budget estimates would have to be trebled or quadrupled. The Budget Committee, which was responsible to the Conference, up to a point, for the accuracy of the budget estimates, was not in a position, for the moment, to decide whether those particular estimates were justified or not. [22] The CHAIRMAN asked for the opinion of the meeting on the inclusion in the report of a general remark recording the Committee’s dissatisfaction with the inclusion in the Budget of estimates for a seminar about which so little information was available. [23] Mr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) also thought, that the report should mention that the budget estimates included certain sums not yet earmarked for a defi- nite purpose or object. [24] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) said that the Secre- tariat would appreciate a statement in the Report of the Committee to the effect that the figures supplied were estimates and should not be taken as representing a fixed budgetary provision. [25] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) thought the discussion had reached a dead end, and that there was no point in pursuing it, since agreement seemed impossible; the details of the items in question, and for that reason the solution of the problems involved, could not be definitely settled. Free and Compulsory Schooling. Regional Conference in South-East Asia (page 95). [26] Mr. WYNES (Australia) suggested:
(1) That the studies might be carried out by National Commissions instead of by local experts working under contract.
(2) That the studies of emergency teachers’    | | | | | |
523 BUDGET training schemes might be made by National Com- mittees or Ministries of Education; and
(3) That Member States might contribute to the travelling expenses of delegates. [27] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu- cation) replied that, whereas some of the National Commissions would be able to provide a factual survey, others would not. Experts were employed because an evaluation was required rather than a mere statement of fact. The element of evaluation was particularly important with regard to emergency teachers’ training schemes, and so a suitable report could not be expected of National Commissions or Ministries of Education. If Member States were required to pay delegates’ travelling expenses there would be a danger of inadequate representation, owing to the slender resources of some of the coun- tries in the region. [28] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) shared the view of the Australian representative. He feared that the provision of a credit in preparation for requests might stimulate the submission of such requests. Countries should be called upon to contri- bute as an indication of their interest. [29] Mr. RAADI (Iran) said that the project in question was specific, with a clearly defined aim. The Secretariat should be given full freedom to organize the Regional Conference, and its success should not be prejudiced (for the sake of saving à very small sum) by the fact of any Government's being unwilling or unable to pay the travelling expenses of its delegate. [30] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) wished to support Mr. Wynes' suggestions regarding the role of the National Commissions. As a general rule, National Commissions should, whenever possible, be encou- raged.to provide studies and to seek out local experts, who needed not necessarily be members of the Com- missions. National Commissions had an important part to play in that respect, so far as Unesco’s work was concerned, and they should be given work to do which would whet their interest and encourage them to greater activity. [31] The CHAIRMAN suggested that there should be included in the Report a general remark to the effect that the employment of experts from the country concerned would result in a saving. [32] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) said that the Commissions had been referred to in a general way, as though they were all on an equal footing. Though that was theoretically true, it was not true in practice. Cer- tan nations might be considered, and were in fact, great nations, whilst others, on the contrary, were medium-sized or small. Whereas, in the first case, COMMITTEE: 71114 National Commissions might have all the necessary facilities for carrying out their work, those of smaller nations, with all the good will in the world, had not, since they lacked the requisite resources. [33] Miss LAISE (United States of America) asked the opinion of the representative of India on the possibilities of National Commissions in South-East Asia in the matter of reports. Could not the Regional Conference of National Commissions be combined or dovetailed in with the Regional Conference study- ing free and compulsory schooling, in view of the similitarity of representation between the two Conferences? [34] Mr. KIRPAL (India) said that, as Secretary of his National Commission, he would either pass a request for a report on the situation regarding free and compulsory schooling to the Ministry of Edu- cation, which would provide facts and figures, or engage an expert to be paid by the National Com- mission. As resources were meagre, it might not be possible to engage a suitable expert. He also asked how many National Commissions in other countries had conducted surveys or supplied reports? [35] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu- cation) said that the only instance was that of Australia, which could not be taken as typical because that country had an extremely active Nation- al Commission working in better circumstances than some of the National Commissions of South- East Asia and other regions. [36] The onus of providing an expert would weigh most heavily on the countries having the heaviest commitments in the matter of education; those were just the countries to which Unesco should render assistance. There was a danger that, if such coun- tries were asked to pay the travelling expenses of delegates, the Conference might be ill-attended. [37] In reply to Miss LAISE, he added that the representation at the two conferences she had men- tioned would probably be somewhat similar, although not identical. Some of the Secretaries of National Commissions would also be members of Ministries of Education, but not all. The represen- tation depended on the choice of Member States. [38] The CHAIRMAN was not satisfied with that explanation. He took the view of the United States representative that, if the conferences were not com- bined, the earlier of the two conferences might pre- pare for the later one. [39] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu- cation) said that the Regional Conference of National Commissions, which was to meet in November 1951, would not discuss free and compulsory schooling. The subjects already chosen and on the agenda were    VIII-4 BUDGET fundamental education and the teaching of Human Rights. [40] Miss LAISE (United States of America) asked why it was necessary to hold a Regional Conference of National Commissions in November 1951 and have some of the same people working on the same prob- lems a year later. What was the logic of the overall planning for South-East Asia? Was there any co- ordination of planning between the External Rela- tions Service, when arranging for a Conference of National Commissions, and other Departments organizing meetings to follow up programme acti- vities? [41] The CHAIRMAN, speaking as a representative of the Netherlands, asked, as a matter of general policy, whether it was unavoidable to have two meetings within six months. [42] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion) explained that the two activities dealt with in the two conferences were entirely different. [43] The aim of the Regional Conference of Nation- al Commissions was to stimulate the National Com- missions and enable them to exchange views on administrative matters, such as the degree of official status desirable, etc.; it was inevitable that some programme questions should be discussed, but the subjects chosen showed no overlapping with the proposed Regional Conference on free and compul- sory schooling. [44] The Conference on free and compulsory schooling proposed for 1952 would call for technical expertise in education. [45] The Conference on free and compulsory schooling should be considered in relation to a world-wide programme of activities. A powerful stimulus had been received from the United Nations Commission on Human Rights which, at its 1951 session, had drafted a Covenant of Social and Cul- tural Rights containing clauses whereby signatories were committed to the preparation of plans for free and compulsory schooling within two years, and to the application of those plans within a certain time- limit. A joint IBE-Unesco conference was to discuss the matter, and in 1953 a second conference would be held to discuss the application of the principles laid down by the earlier conference and the legal and administrative action required. The 1952 Conference on free and compulsory schooling was, therefore, part of a schedule in which timing played an important part. If the Conference were not held, the whole edifice might crumble. [46] Miss LAISE (United States of America) agreed that the matter was one of timing and method, although she still thought that there would be a case for postponing the meeting of National Com- missions, especially since it had only just received COM MIT TEXE the approval of the Executive Board. Alternatively, might it not be possible to add the question of free and compulsory schooling to the agenda of the National Commissions Conference even if such an addition involved the attendance of some additional representatives? In her opinion, such an arrange- ment would prove at once more economical and more beneficial to National Commissions. [47] The CHAIRMAN suggested that the report of the Committee should mention that the question of the participation of National Commissions in the study of questions of free and compulsory schooling had been raised, and that the Committee had expressed concern about the question of timing. [48] Mr. RAADI (Iran) saw no reason why the 1951 Conference should not serve as a prelude to the 1952 Conference. Since the countries of South-East Asia stood in urgent need of Unesco’s advice and aid, it was important not to prejudice the success of the two Conferences. Moreover, the presence of the same representatives at both Conferences would surely facilitate the work of the second. [49] objection to a general statement of dissatisfaction with the proposed timing in the report of the Com mittee. [50] Office of the Director-General) said that, if the basis of that comment were the fact that there were to be two conferences in the same region within one year, he would feel obliged to point out that according to Table VIII (page 302) 95 per cent of the meetings sponsored by Unesco were to take place in Europe and only three in South-East Asia. [61] Miss LAISE (United States of America) had no intention of reducing Unesco’s service to South- East Asia. She hoped that if, in future, two con ferences were likely to call for the attendance of the same people within a short space of time, there would be more evidence of planning to cover all subjects at the same time. [52] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) felt that the two conferences ought to be combined, in order to saw y double travelling expenses. He hoped the Secretariat would give an estimate of the amount which might be saved if that were done. [63] Mr. KIRPAL (India) said that the represen tatives attending the 1951 Conference of National Commissions would be largely non-official, except where members of National Commissions were als members of the staff of Ministries of Education. Representatives at the 1952 Conference on free and The CHAIRMAN asked whether there was any | Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, !
011:0 jects [55] did of cd [56] drew in v the ques put q miss Prep East [57] that most ate pare [58] mem to so duced duri of th educd [59] tion) were not b lay o in m [60] that owing withi [61] would
45 da basis Midd] key, guisti certai misti positid after q the Cd
525 BUDGET MIT TEE VIII-4 compulsory schooling would be Ministers of Edu- cation or other high officials. [54] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) added that the sub- jects dealt with would be different. [55] The CHAIRMAN considered that those facts did not invalidate the case for a general expression of concern about the timing of meetings. [56] Miss LAISE (United States of America) with- drew her suggestion about combining the meeting in view of the explanations given in the course of the discussion, but expressed the hope that the question of free and compulsory schooling might be put on the agenda of the meeting of National Com- missions. Preparation of a Regional Conference in the Middle East (page 95). [57] Mr. WYNES (Australia) was not convinced that the method of preparation suggested was the most effective and the most economical. Could not a temporary officer attached to the Secretariat pre- pare the proposed studies? [58] Mr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) asked whether members of the Secretariat who had been on mission to some of these Middle Eastern countries had pro- duced reports on the progress they had observed during their stay, and, in particular, on the effect of the recent decrees instituting free and compulsory education.
(59] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion) replied that the experts sent to the Middle East were experts in fundamental education and could not be expected to express more than an intelligent lay opinion on developments which had taken place in matters of free and compulsory schooling. [60] Mr. Elvin assured the Australian representative that the assistance of local experts was necessary owing to the widely different conditions prevailing within countries of the same region. [61] Mr. RAADI (Iran) noted that two consultants would be appointed, each for a period of about
45 days, to prepare for the Conference. On what basis would those appointments be made? Since the Middle Eastern countries—Iraq, Afghanistan, Tur- key, Iran, etc.—were divided into three or four lin- guistic groups, more than two consultants would certainly be required. It was, moreover, very opti- Mistic to imagine that a consultant would be in a position to draw up a sufficiently detailed report after only 45 days’ stay. Mr. Raadi therefore asked the Committee to reduce the allowance for travelling expenses, and to allocate larger sums to enable a greater number of consultants to make a longer stay. [62] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion) assured the meeting that technical qualifica- tions were the criterion for the appointment of con- sultants. That was necessarily the case because consultants had “to advise the Secretariat as to the legal and administrative implications of extending free and compulsory schooling” (page 95). Travel was an essential part of their duties, for without it and without the opportunity of meeting adminis- trators in the various countries their recommenda- tions might prove less directly applicable to the prob- lems which they were called upon to study. [63] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) pointed out that nor- mally the item“Travel on Official Business” included consultant travel and travel of staff. In the parti- cular case in question, the travel provision was for consultants and nòt forstaff. [64] Mr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) thought a stay of
45 days in the various countries covered by the Regional Conference was obviously inadequate. [65] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion) said he would welcome a proposal for increased funds underthe item. Educational Missions for Developing Free and Com- pulsory Schooling (page 95). [66] The CHAIRMAN, speaking as representative of the Netherlands, asked which countries were to receive missions. Would the Secretariat supply a breakdown of the figure of $33,000, which included fees, travel, etc.? [67] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) did not think it necessary to allocate a sum of $3,080 for the tra- velling expenses of members of the Secretariat sent on in advance to prepare for the reception of the missions. That could be done by the States con- cerned. Money could obviously be saved in that way. [68] Mr. WYNES (Australia), seeing that “Unesco will place at the disposal of Member States upon their request up to five educational advisers” (page 95), asked whether such requests had in fact been received. [69] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) asked how much financial participation would be expected of the receiving country under draft programme Resolution 1.233. He would like to be assured that the provision of appropriations for missions would in no way stimulate requests. [70] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- m A    УПГ-4 ВЕТ tion) said, in reply to the CHAIRMAN, that the breakdown would be made and would be available on the following day. [71] The word “Production” of the report of the mission. [72] No requests for missions in 1952 had yet been received, so that the Secretariat had been obliged to make assumptions based on past experience. Seven countries had approached the Secretariat unoffi- . cially for the three missions to be sent out in 1951. [73] With regard to “Travel on Official Business” by members of the Secretariat to prepare for the arrival of missions, the mission to Thailand had shown that such preparation meant a saving of the time of the mission as a whole and consequently an appreciable financial economy. indicated the printing [74] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) was not convinced; the missions in question would comprise, at most, three or four members. It was unthinkable to allo- cate, for each mission, funds amounting to $1,540 to cover the travelling expenses of members of the Secretariat sent to prepare for their arrival. It would be sufficient if a detailed letter with a list of require- ments were sent beforehand, or if one member of the mission arrived a week in advance in order to make preparations for its work. [75] In reply to the question put by the represen- tative of the United Kingdom, Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education) said that, when receiving a mission, a Member State had to make a sufficient contribution to the expenses to guarantee its interest in the mission. Such a State had to pay the living expenses of members of the mission and to provide all inland transport, technical equipment obtainable locally, offices, and secretarial assistance. [76] Mr. Elvin assured the representative of the United Kingdom that, although the needs of Member States were discussed with them, the Secretariat did no more than point out, where appropriate, that a mission was the best way of meeting the needs described by the Member State itself. The request had to come from the Member State. The Secre- tariat had so far considered such action to be a legitimate part of its functions; if that were not the case, the Committee would do well to give an opinion on the subject. [77] Mr. AKRAWI (Head of the Clearing House, Department of Education) gave an account of the work which he had been called upon to do in pre- paration for the arrival of a mission. He had found that the lodging provided was unsatisfactory by European standards, and had had to make arrange- ments for the provision of suitable food and for a physician to accompany the mission; such arrange- ments were of vital importance to the health of the mission staff. He had further dealt with transport within the country and the most suitable routes to be followed. He had verified the competence of ero      MEM TET ETE interpreters, and seen whether suitable typewriters were available. On the programme side, he had been called upon to make preliminary contacts with the authorities of the country. Those were functions which could only be performed on the spot and which had in fact saved much of the mission's valuable time. [78] Miss LAISE (United States of America) asked whether such functions could not be performed by the field officers or resident technical assistance advisers. [79] Mr. RAADI (Iran) agreed with Mr. Guignolet that, since Unesco was planning a whole series of missions, some simpler and less costly procedure should be adopted; either one of the members of the mission should be sent on a week or two in advance; or else an official of the Secretariat should be attached to the mission, as a member. [80] Mr. ELVIN (Director Department of Education) said that the provision of $2,000 for Travel on Official Business in preparation for the Conference in the Middle East was for the travel of consultants. The $3,000 mentioned at the end of the paragraph was for the Secretariat. The Secretariat took care to combine objects of travel wherever possible. To prepare a mission an international civil servant acquainted with living conditions in various coun- tries and able, if necessary, to establish lines of demarcation between teams working in the same country (e.g., technical assistance teams) was Te- quired rather than a member of a mission who, being an expert, seldom had a sufficiently wide knowledge of international administration. In some cases, the field officer might be able to undertake the necessary preparations, but he was essentially a field science officer and might not be qualified to establish lines of demarcation. [81] The Committee agreed that the report should reflect its doubts about the necessity of sending a member of the Secretariat to prepare for missions. [82] Mr. WYNES (Australia) felt that the whole section should be deleted, because missions were a most expensive item. In any case, not more than one mission should be undertaken each year. The number of educational advisers should also be re: duced to three. [83] [It was agreed that the statement should appear in the report as the opinion of the Australian repre- sentative. Education of Women (page 96). [84] No comments were made on the organization of the Fifteenth Conference on Public Education, to be devoted to the problem of the access of women to education.
927 [85] citiz tion: Edu Regi Heal [86] Conf Euro the E the f [87] tion) CO-0] since for t the 1 [88] studi three by N unde [89] with lead shoul [90] tion) the p of th [91] clude tant 1 healt] [92] tion) with teach some clinic schoo [93] ted tl report hard]; list of м Comm a pro Progr:   BUDGET. [85] The question of the education of women in citizenship (page 96) also gave rise to no observa- tions. Education and the Special Problems of Children. Regional Conference on Education and the Mental Health of Children in Europe (page 96). [86] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) said that the first Conference on education and the mental health of European children would place a heavy burden on the budget. Moreover, such work surely came within the field of the World Health Organization. [87] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion) replied that the Conference would call for the co-operation of the World Health Organization but, since two organizations were involved, it was normal for the one which had the major interest to assume the main financial responsibility. [88] Mr. Elvin was happy to report that two of the studies by experts on education for mental health in three selected Euroepan countries would be prepared by National Commissions, thus effecting an economy under that item. [89] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) agreed with Mr. Elvin that one organization should take the lead but asked why, in the case at issue, Unesco should assume the main financial liability. [90] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion) explained that the Conference would deal with the problem of mental health from the point of view of the educator. [91] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) con- cluded from that explanation that the most impor- tant research would take place in matters of mental health, and so maintained his position. [92] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion) said that the Conference would be concerned with enlisting the help of medical personnel for the teacher. In the United Kingdom itself there was some controversy as to whether the child guidance clinic should be attached to the hospital or the school. [93] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) sugges- ted that, as the controversy was still raging, the report of the Committee should state that it would hardly be possible to include the Conference in the list of priorities. [94] Mr. TAYLOR (Deputy Director-General), Speaking for the Director-General, reminded the Committee that the decision which it was taking was a programme decision within the purview of the Programme Commission. COMMITTEE VIIT-4 [95] Mr. RAADI (Iran) thought that, from a strictly budgetary point of view, even if it were decided that Unesco should bear the cost of the Con- ference, the estimates could be very considerably reduced. [96] Sir Ronald ADAM (Representative of the Exe- rutive Board) said that there was a tendency for the child guidance clinic to become linked with educa- tional institutions. He felt that the cost of the Con- ference was a question for the Budget Committee. The Executive Board had taken no exception to the item. [97] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) observed that two out of three studies could be entrusted to the Na- tional Commissions concerned. That would mean that the estimated cost of $3,000 could be reduced to $1,300. . [98] Again, the Regional Conference scheduled for the end of 1952 was to be attended by some 60 per- sons from various European countries. Could not a considerable amount be saved by reason.of the fact that the Member States would presumably contribute to the travelling expenses of their delegates? [99] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion) indicated that the figure relating to the pre- paration of reports for the Conference was included in the $3,000 shown in the fourth line on page 97. [100] The CHAIRMAN admitted that the decision as to where the financial responsibility lay was a pro- gramme decision. Nevertheless, the Committee was within its rights in suggesting reductions in esti- mates. The $3,000 for studies might therefore be reduced by $2,000. [101] Agreed. [102] Mr. WYNES (Australia) agreed with the representative of France that countries should pay the travel expenses of delegates, and further sugges- ted a reduction in the number of experts by deletion of the provision of $4,959 for temporary posts at the end of the section. [103] Mr. RAADI (Iran) said that, even allowing for two or three delegates from each European coun- try to attend the regional conference, it could not be assumed that there would be a total of as many as
60 delegates. The number of participants should be reduced, and the budget estimates pruned accor- dingly. [104] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion) said that the total cost of the Conference ($25,030) included provision for the travelling expenses of only four delegates from outside Europe.    VIII-5 BUDGET [105] It was agreed that the suggested reductions should be indicated in the report. Regional Conference on Education and Technical Progress and Social Change in Latin America (page 97). [106] Mr. WYNES (Australia) considered the post of the expert responsible for preliminary work unnecessary. [107] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) did not see the need for sending members of the Secretariat to the headquarters of the United Nations and of the region- al Organizations concerned for the purpose of co-ordinating technical preparations. [108] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion) said that most careful preparation was neces- sary, since the matter concerned other agencies. Without such preparation the administrative effi- ciency and even the’ ultimate success of the con- ference might be seriously compromised. [109] Mr. RAADI (Iran) pointed out that is was essentially a question of preparatory work. Would it be possible to form some idea as to the cost of the conference planned for 1953, which would fall on ‚the 1953 budget? Mr. Raadi wondered whether the Budget Committee should not state, in its report, that no priority should be given to the proposed preparations for the general conference. G'OM MIT TEE [110] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu- cation) said that the cost would be borne by the 1953 budget but that the cost of a similar conference in
1952 was some $39,000. The provision should be made for the sake of continuity. Tables of Expenditure on Education (pages 99, 100,
101). [111] The CHAIRMAN, speaking as a represen- tative of the Netherlands, enquired what was the nature of the “common services”, costing $15,000 (page 101). [112] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Bud- get, Office of the Director-General) explained that the sum covered board and lodging of persons attending seminars. [113] The Committee agreed that a more explicit definition of the objects of expenditure should be given in future. [114] In reply to the representative of Australia, Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) indicated that, as a result of the transfer of the Haiti project, the post of Direc- tor (page 99) was no longer a Unesco liability and that a further reduction of approximately $8,000 could be made. The meeting rose at 6.45 p.m. FIFTH MEETING Wednesday, 13 June 1951, at 10 a.m. Chairman: Mr. F. Benner (Netherlands) Examination of the Budget Estimates (con- tinuation) [document 6C/5 (II) ]. Education (continuation) (Part 1.1). EDUCATION FOR INTERNATIONAL UNDERSTANDING (III. ED). National or Regional Seminars in Education for International Understanding (page 104). [1] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) did not understand why a sum of $1,400 had been allocated for “fees for authors of working papers”; he had always imagined it was the Secretariat's duty to prepare such doc uments. [2] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa- tion) pointed out that as the seminars were concerned with the study of special academic disciplines, highly specialized papers were required. It was thus often necessary to engage experts outside the Secretariat for the preparation of documents. At times it Was also necessary to prepare certain working papers 11 a language other than one of the working languages of the Organization, or in a specialized form. That, again, was work which could not always be under- taken by a memberofthe Secretariat.   | | | | || | | ( | ||
529 [3] firm not was it w the to indi esse Res Chil [4] had wor Esti gran state the the prog take in vol sugg that and [5] the writ the men IIT.1 alre regi Ast docu regi dup shou [6] nece Farl its v ques Unes proj [7] feren train did (Reg healt [8] tion) state passé] оп Ц