255 CENER AT therefore suffice to say that it was understood that the resolution implied authorization to transfer the surpluses. [21] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) agreed with the Chairman, but thought that the Adminis- trative Commission should nevertheless prepare for consideration by the plenary meeting a recommen- dation on the financing of the 1952 Budget by means of funds other than contributions from Member States. The Commission should be free to produce its report as it thought best, consistent with the - General Conference resolution on the budget ceiling. [22] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL disagreed with Sir John Maud. The plenary meeting was the supreme organ of the General Conference, and had not been unaware, in voting, of the decision to in- clude the $32,000 from the China Reconstruction Fund in the 1952 Budget. If it were then assumed that that had not been understood, it would imply that other countries could also raise questions con- cerning unused surpluses. China certainly had the right to make known its views, but the Chairman of the Administrative Commission had no right to go back on a definite decision of the General Conference. [23] The CHAIRMAN thought the Committee could trust the Chairman of that Commission to devise a SEVENTH COMMITTEE 111-7 way of reconciling the decision of the Conference with the rights of the Commission. [24] Mr. van der STRATEN-WAILLET (Chair- man of the Administrative Commission) said that he had never intended to go back on a decision of the plenary meeting. He agreed that he should have mentioned the matter at the time the vote was taken. He thought, however, that since China had no right to vote in the Commission, it would be a waste of time to hear that country’s delegation in the Com- mission, and that it would be better to allow the Chinese delegate to speak just before the final vote was taken in the plenary meeting. [26] Agreed. [26] Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) recalled that the General Conference had been informed that China would make a token payment of $14,000 for
1951. A letter had since been received from the Organization’s bankers in London, saying that the cheque in question had not been met. The matter had been referred to the head of the Chinese dele- gation, who was communicating with his Govern- ment in the matter. [27] It was agreed to take note of the matter. The meeting rose at 10.45 a.m. MEETING Monday, 2 July 1951, at 9.30 a.m. Chairman: Mr. D. R. HaromaN (United Kingdom) [1] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL thought that the Budget Committee should include in its agenda con- sideration of the reductions decided upon by the Programme Commission. The Budget Committee might also study the corresponding staff reductions. The Programme Commission would thus have pre- cise data before it when it reviewed the programme for the second time. [2] The Director-General announced that he had received a letter from the Korean Minister of Educa- tion requesting Unesco to launch forthwith a pro- gramme of reconstruction in the fields of education, science and culture. As it was essential to co-operate closely with the United Nations in that domain, he proposed to send a cable immediately to the acting Agent General of the United Nations Korea Re- construction Agency at Pusan, informing him of the communication received from the Government of Korea. He also proposed to make a statement to the Programme Commission, taking account of recent press information on the situation in Korea. [3] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) entirely approved the Director-General’s comments on the letter from the Korean Minister of Education. He wondered, however, whether Unesco’s intervention in that field might not be somewhat premature, and thought that Unesco should be sure of the approval of the United Nations ] i i
111-7 GENERAL and the military High Command before undertaking any work in Korea. Work of the Budget Committee. [4] Mr. BENDER (Chairman of the Budget Com- mittee) shared the Director-General’s views regard- ing the Budget Committee's future work. He pointed out that, although the budget ceiling had been fixed, the budget itself had not yet been adopted. He asked what the Budget Committee should do if it found itself with a final budget total lower than the ceiling voted. As the Budget Committee would receive proposals from the Programme Commission which, after consideration, would have to be re- ferred back to that Commission and would ultima- tely come back to the Budget Committee before the final budget was established, he proposed that, in order to shorten the work, joint meetings of the Budget Committee and the Programme Commission should be held. [6] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL agreed with Mr. Bender that a joint meeting would be necessary before the final presentation of the budget to the General Conference. However, the problem was not quite as difficult as Mr. Bender feared. So far the Programme Commission had not managed to keep within the budget ceiling. The Budget Committee therefore had to consider each of the Commission's decisions carefully, before the latter went through the programme for the second time. That was not incompatible with the general procedure suggested by Mr. Bender. [6] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) approved the Director-General’s proposals. Nevertheless, he thought it would be useful to ask the Budget Com- mittee at once to allow certain members of the Programme Commission to assist it in its work; that method had already been adopted for the special Fundamental Education project, and it would help the Programme Commission in making the final adjustment of the Programme to the budget. Thus, a programme and budget forming a coherent whole could be presented more quickly to the General Conference. [7] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL did not think that the Programme Commission could delegate its task to the Budget Committee or a joint Committee. The Commission itself would have to decide upon the programme. It would probably not accept Sir John Maud’s suggestion very willingly. With regard to the second examination of the programme, he thought that it might be useful for a Sub-Committee of the Budget Committee to take part in the Pro- gramme Commission’s work, supplying it with a coOMmMmmMmIT TEE 256 carefully considered opinion on the budgetary aspects of its work. He maintained his earlier suggestion that the Budget Committee should study the re- ductions voted by the Programme Commission during its first review of the programme. In that way, there could be no disagreement on the subject of respective competencies. [8] Mr. PIAGET (Chairman of the Programme Commission) seconded the Director-General’s sug- gestions and thought it impossible to put Sir John Maud’s proposal into practice. He pointed out that the Programme Commission’s tendency was to oppose the reductions proposed by the Secretariat and that it had no wish to relinquish its right and duty to cut the programme firstly by nine per cent and then by a further 2.38 per cent. [9] Mr. BENDER (Chairman of the Budget Com- mittee) observed that he had made his proposal because of the excellent results achieved by the joint meeting of the Budget Committee and the Working Party on Fundamental Education. The Budget Com- mittee’s only desire was to help the Programme Commission, without infringing upon the latter’s competency. [10] As the Programme Commission would have the advantage of knowing the Budget Committee's opinion when it reviewed the draft programme for the second time, the CHAIRMAN thought it better to keep the programme of work of each Commission as it was. [11] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) proposed that the Budget Committee should be invited at once to consider the views which it would present to the Programme Commission, as that might shorten the discussions. He emphasized the fact that he was in no way advocating a merging of the respective com- petencies of the Programme Commission and the Budget Committee. [12] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL approved that suggestion. He further proposed that, before the Programme Commission's second review of the pro- gramme, the Budget Committee should be asked to consider the possibility of making a further reduc- tion of 1.2 per cent on all items in the budget, in order that the Programme Commission should not find itself in difficulties when it considered the conclusions reached on the subject of the special Fundamental Education project. [13] Mr. SEYDOUX (France) asked the Director- General whether the 1.2 per cent reduction was related to the problem of financing the special Funda- mental Education project. He pointed out that, as    em e
257 CENERAZL shown by the debate on the Director-General's report, some delegations were not very anxious to see the special Fundamental Education project financed out of Unesco’s ordinary budget. [14] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL replied that it would be necessary to make a cut of 1.2 per cent on all the budget estimates in order to finance the special project. In view of the favourable reception with which the project had met, it seemed hardly likely that it would not be adopted, even in a reduced and modified form. The matter would no doubt give rise to highly controversial discussions. He asked the General Committee whether it would prefer to ask the Programme Commission to cut each item by 3.58 per cent when it undertook its difficult task of going through the programme for the second time, or would rather ask the Budget Committee to make a general reduction of 1.2 per cent. He pointed out that the figure of 1.2 per cent would entail reductions throughout the entire budget. If reductions were to be made on the programme only, the percentage would then become 1.7 per cent. In its second examination of the programme, the Pro- gramme Commission would therefore have to make a 4.08 per cent reduction on expenditure, which would mean a total budgetary reduction of
13.08 per cent. [15] Mr. PIAGET (Chairman of the Programme Commission) thought that the Programme Com- mission, which had not so far managed to make the necessary nine per cent reduction in its first reading of the programme, would have great difficulty in effecting the economy of 2.38 per cent originally agreed upon, when it reviewed the programme for the second time. If it were obliged to make a further economy of 1.7 per cent it would have to start all its work over again. COMMITTEE 1117 [16] In that case, the DIRECTOR-GENERAL thought that he would do well to withdraw his sug- gestion, which might make it necessary for the Programme Commission to examine the programme for a third time. [17] It was finally agreed that the Budget Com- mittee should study the budgetary implications of the Programme Commission’s decisions, expressing its views to the Commission when the latter re- viewed the programme for the second time. [18] Mr. MONTAGNIER (Secretary) read the fol- lowing time-table for the beginning of the week (Monday, 2 July to Thursday, 5 July): The Programme Commission would meet every day, morning and afternoon. The Official and External Relations Commission would meet on Monday, ‘10rning and afternoon, and in the morning on Tuesday and Wednesday. The Administrative Commission would meet on Tuesday afternoon and Wednesday morning and afternoon. The Nominations Committee would meet on Wednesday afternoon (consideration of nominations to fill vacancies on the Executive Board). [19] The above time-table was approved. [20] Upon the proposal of the CHAIRMAN, seconded by Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) and the DIRECTOR-GENERAL,it was further agreed that the Conference should hold a plenary meeting on the afternoon of Wednesday, 4 July, after the Pro- gramme Commission, to elect six members of the Executive Board on the report of the Nominations Committee. The meeting rose at 10.85 a.m.