VIII-7 BUDGET GOMMIT TEE SEVENTH MEETING Thursday, 14 June 1951, at 10 a.m. Chairman: Mr. F. Benper (Netherlands) Examination of the Budget Estimates (con- tinuation) [document 6C/5 (IT) ]. Natural Sciences (continuation) (Part III.2). CONTRIBUTION TO RESEARCH, PARTICULARLY FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE Living CONDITIONS OF MANKIND (I11.2.D). Survey of Scientific Research (page 125). [1] Miss LAISE (United States of America) sug- gested that the Committee, in its report, should recommend that the survey should be carried out in close co-operation with the International Council of Scientific Unions, if not by actual contract with that body. [2] It was agreed to note that suggestion in the Report. Special Meetings of Experts (page 125). [3] No comments. International Computation Centre (page 125). [4] Miss LAISE (United States of America) said that her delegation would oppose the principle of a loan from the Working Capital Fund for the pro- ject. It was felt that the item should really be included in the regular Budget, and that any reim- bursement made should be credited to Miscellaneous Income. [5] Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences) pointed out that the form in which the International Computation Centre was to be financed —loan or budget appropriation—would depend in the main on its legal structure. If the Centre was to be independent of Unesco, being set up by a group of nations, there was no reason whyit should not be advanced a loan to enable it to start its work; the amount could be repaid in a few years out of special contributions from the States members of the Centre. The experts consulted had, however, had in mind a Centre attached to Unesco and, in that event, there would be no further reason for a loan, as the Centre could then be financed only by means of a subvention included in the regular budget. Mr. Auger did not think that the Committee could take a decision on the matter until the Con- ference had expressed its views on the nature of the Centre itself. [6] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) reminded the meet- ing that, whenthe question of an advance, as recover: able expenditure, from the Working Capital Fund had beenraised in the Executive Board, the proposal had been rejected by 6 votes to 0. Mr. Guignolet agreed with Miss Laise that provision should be made in the budget for a sum of $60,000, repre- senting alternatively expenditure and possible Te- ceipts, thereby drawing the Conference’s attention to the matter, on which it would have to take a decision. [7] The CHAIRMAN felt that discussion of the point should be postponed until the Programme Commission had decided on the final form of the resolution. [8] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) added that the loan to the Centre had been proposed on the firm under- standing that a written agreement as to the terms of repayment would be signed. The Director-General would certainly agree that the item should become part of the regular Budget if there were any doubt or question as to the manner and terms of repayment. Research on Problems of the Arid Zone (page 126). [9] The CHAIRMAN noted the large increase in the number of personnel to be employed on that project in 1952. [10] Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences) observed that the whole Department had been thoroughly reorganized when the scientific research programme was launched. The Director General had been anxious to co-ordinate all activities relating to scientific research throughout the world, and a better distribution of the staff, rather than a increase in their numbers, was proposed for 1952; the total had in fact been reduced from 53 to 51 staff members. Only two officials, a programme special- ist (Grade 14) and a programme assistant (Grade 10), would be in charge of the Arid Zone programme, the remainder of the staff being con   | | | [ Ë | ( | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |     cern sics, [11] sity mitt toc hold [12] intel gran Ш [13] that the gove carri task insti Offic woul nece cour: [14] symp the s last 7 deali Zone funds posiu the 1 [15] ring of th inter! unde; Food feren Unes postp [16] Scien meeti The 1 Were had e in the gram! appro meet; to be evolvi [17] Mitte     BUT GET cerned with the Computation Centre, nuclear phy- sics, etc. [11] Mr. WYNES (Australia) questioned the neces- sity for two four-day meetings of the Advisory Com- mittee in 1952. He felt it should be possible either to combine the two meetings or to postpone the holding of the second until 1953. [12] Mr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) asked whether the international symposium mentioned in the pro- gramme for 1952 was the symposium proposed in 1951. [13] Miss LAISE (United States of America) said that her Government favoured transfer to 1953 of the estimate for contracts with international non- governmental organizations to review the research carried out in different regions. It was felt that that task might well be undertaken by existing Unesco institutions such as Field Science Co-operation Offices and National Commissions. In any case, it would be advisable to allow a year as the time necessary for ascertaining whether or not such a course was feasible. [14] Reverting to the question of the international symposium, Mr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) asked why the symposium had been deferred. Turning to the last paragarph in the section of the Budget Estimates dealing with “Research on Problems of the Arid Zone”, he asked if it was to be concluded that the funds necessary for the implementation of the sym- posium's recommendations were to be found outside the budget of Unesco. [15] Miss LAISE (United States of America), refer- ring to the proposed symposium on Plant Ecology of the Arid Zone, pointed out that a Conference on international Grasslands was being convened in 1952 ‘under the joint auspices of her Government and the Food and Agriculture Organization. Since that Con- ference would have the same participants as the Unesco symposium, her delegation would propose postponement of the latter activity until 1953. [16] Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences) remarked that, obviously, the fewer meetings were held, the smaller would be the cost. The meetings involved in the case under discussion Were technical, not administrative meetings. Unesco had embarked on a practical programme of research In the Arid Zone at the request of Ecosoc; that pro- gramme had been adopted by the Conference and approved by Ecosoc, and the reason for holding two meetings a year was the urgency of the problems to be dealt with, which were, incidentally, rapidly evolving,
(17] With regard to symposia, the Advisory Com- mittee on Arid Zone Research had suggested that one co MMTTTEE VIET should be organized a year, in conjunction with ane or two meetings of the Committee, so as to cut down travelling expenses. The symposium on under- ground water resources planned in 1951 had not been held, as there had been no time to make proper preparations for it; the sums thus released had been allotted to an exhibition in Bangkok. The sympo- sium to be held in the spring of 1952, at the invi- tation of Turkey, would not deal with plant ecology, but with underground water resources. [18] Mr. EL DIWANY(Egypt) remarked that both the date and place of the symposium had been changed, and mentioned that other invitations had been offered. Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences) pointed out that Turkey alone had extended an official invitation. “All the symposia planned would be held, but at times different from those originally contemplated. [19] On the question of the development of arid regions and the proposed contracts, assistance from Unesco was essential; that assistance would take the form of a co-ordinated programme of work for existing national or international institutions, which would be responsible for carrying out that pro- gramme with their own resources, since Unesco could not conduct the research itself, nor finance the whole of it. Even if the monetary contribution was small, however, it might go a very long way if sound advice was also provided. Mr. Auger stated that the membership of the Advisory Committee had risen from seven nine with the addition of Australia and Mexico, and he hoped that at least double that number of countries would be represented at the symposium in 1952. [20] Mr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) was afraid that the question of symposia was not entirely clear. While it was reasonable that the Advisory Committee should meet each year, it would seem that symposia could be arranged only at long intervals and after careful preparation and, moreover, that they should be held in countries in which wide stretches of country could be reclaimed from the desert. The meeting to be held in the United States of America in 1953 would offer delegates a field of practical experience together with an example of most instructive work in hand. Mr. El Diwany recommended that, instead of dividing up the available funds, the symposium should be postponed until 1953 and then held in the United States of America, as Miss Laise had sug- gested. [21] The CHAIRMAN suggested that the Com- mittee should note the two proposals to effect econ- omies by the postponement of activities to 1953. [22] Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences) pointed out that both the proposed econ-
7111-7 BUDGET omies would involve a distinct change of pro- gramme. [23] Miss LAISE (United States of America) accord- ingly suggested that the Committee simply point out that the proposed schedule of work did not take full account of the recommendations made by Ecosoc or the expected activities of Member States, and that it would be advisable for the Programme Commis- sion to consider the wisdom of postponing certain projects until 1953. [24] After Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences) had read out the text of the reso- Jution on the development of arid regions unani- mously approved by the General Assembly of the United Nations at its Fifth Session (document Unesco/NS/AZ/19, Annex II), indicating that the Spe- cialized Agencies concerned should devote sufficient technical and financial resources to the project. [25] It was agreed to discuss the matter fully after receipt on the approved resolution from the Pro- gramme Commission, and, meanwhile, to include Miss Laise’s remarks in the first report of the Com- mittee. [26] Mr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) asked whether Unesco had received from the United Nations a request for collaboration in carrying out the reso- lution, and if any time-limit had been fixed. [27] Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences) explained that the Secretary-General of the United Nations was to have material in 1951 for the report he was to submit in 1952, under the terms of the above-mentioned resolution of the General Assembly. DissEMINATION OF Science (III.2.E). Science as a Weapon against Disease (page 129). [28] Mr. MOORE (Australia) queried the necessity for sending two exhibitions to countries as close as Thailand and Indonesia. He also wondered whether consideration had been given to using again the exhibition sent to Peru in 1950. ; [29] Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences) explained that, as the travelling exhibition for Peru had dealt with astronomy and physics, it could hardly be used for the spread of medical know- ledge; another exhibition was at the moment travel- ling in Central America and would move on after- wards to the South American countries, where it would circulate for one or two years before being brought to an end. The Director-General was anxious to organize one such travelling exhibition each year for a particular region. In 1951, a travel- COM M TIRE ling exhibition would be sent to Bangkok simul- taneously with the Meeting of National Commissions, and would afterwards circulate for some months in that region. It was proposed that yet another exhi- bition should be organized for 1952. With regard to the cost of the exhibitions, that for Latin America had amounted to $20,000; that for Bangkok was on a smaller scale, and $11,000 to $12,000 would be sufficient. Judging by previous experience, Mr. Auger concluded that the provision of $17,000 in the budget would be just enough to organize a good exhibition on “The Right to Health”. It should not be forgotten that the exhibitions were liable to be damaged in transit and that provision had to be made for the cost of repairs. By the end of 1952, there would thus be three exhibitions in circulation. [30] In reply to Miss LAISE (United States of Amer- ica), who wished to know whether the exhibition in Thailand would be ready in time for the Meeting of National Commissions and, if so, why it did not appear in the 1951 budget, Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences) explained that it had been possible to prepare the exhibition intended for Thailand in record time, thanks to transfers within the budget for 1951. There was therefore only one exhibition to be organized in 1952—an exhibition which would use all the appropriation provided ($17,100) in view of the very high cost of the packaging necessary for delicate precision instru- ments. The document submitted to the Committee would therefore be suitably amended. [31] Miss LAISE (United States of America) said that she could not understand how one exhibition could suddenly absorb the fundsoriginally estimated for two and requested the Secretariat to supply, in writing, a breakdown of the costs of the proposed exhibitions, together with a brief summary of their content. [32] Miss Laise wished to raise a general question affecting all travelling exhibitions, namely whether the introduction of a small entrance fee had ever been considered. That would offset transportation and maintenance costs, and might even be considered likely to enhance the value and increase the popu larity of such exhibitions. [33] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) pointed out that, in any case, the transportation costs within the country of exhibition were borne by that country. The question of an admission charge had never been con- sidered, but if such a measure were introduced the receipts would have to be credited to Miscellaneous Income, and would not contribute directly to the exhibition costs. [34] It was, however, agreed to note Miss Laise's point in the report of the Committee.
545 Wo [35 mer of 1 its « [36 рог! ope [37] Scie beer mor up € exist nati wor] expl [38] but invil ling [39] Scier like their orga assis expl: only matt bud: sider Ame bep [40] the ¢ of tt repo! Meth Adva [41] ment semi Was ; woul [42] with Was | Comr semir
545 BUDGET Work of Other Organizations (p. 129). [35] Mr. WYNES (Australia) said that his Govern- ment regarded the meeting of the advisory committee of representatives as superfluous, and recommended its deletion. [36] Miss LAISE (United States of America) sup- ported that view, suggesting that the necessary co- operation could be obtained by correspondence. [37] Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences) said that the proposed arrangements had been inspired by Unesco’s anxiety to avoid spending money unproductively. It was necessary to draw up a co-ordinated programme and close contact with existing organizations concerned with the dissemi- nation of scientific knowledge was essential if the work was to be satisfactorily co-ordinated. He explained that only one meeting was proposed. [38] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) agreed that such a meeting might enhance Unesco’s moral prestige, but wished to know whether the organizations invited to attend it would take a share in the travel- ling expenses of their delegates. [39] Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences) pointed out that, while large foundations like the Rockefeller Foundation could afford to pay their delegates’ expenses, local and less affluent organizations could not send delegates without some assistance (e.g. Latin American countries). He explained that invitations were generally sent out only after agreement had been reached on that matter. He added that the estimated sum in the budget ($4,350) was very small when it was con- sidered that the return fare of a delegate from South America was $1,200. Mr. Auger hoped that it would be possible to bring together 30 or 40 people. [40] It was agreed that the remarks made during the discussion with regard to the proposed meeting of the advisory committee should be noted in the report of the Budget Committee. Methods of Informing Non-Specialists of Scientific Advances (page 129). [41] Mr. WYNES (Australia) said that his Govern- ment considered that the project required neither a seminar nor a meeting. Neither of those activities was justified by the programme resolution and he would propose their deletion. [42] Miss LAISE (United States of America) agreed with that view, especially since a large appropriation Was being requested for the Department of Mass Communication, precisely for the purpose of dis- seminating Unesco information. COMMITTEE 7111-7 [43] Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences), on re-reading Resolution 2.31, did not think that the proposed action was incompatible with the resolution. The point at issue was to dis- cover the most effective way of disseminating methods of discovery and the applications of the natural sciences. The Department of Mass Communi- cation was responsible for executive work, but the proposed meeting, which was to investigate the most satisfactory arrangements for informing the public, appeared to be properly a matter for the Department of Natural Sciences. Any recommendations adopted by the meeting would subsequently be referred to the Department of Mass Communication for imple- mentation. [44] Miss LAISE (United States of America) under- stood Mr. Auger’s point, but felt that the Depart- ments of Natural Sciences and Mass Communication should collaborate in the matter. In addition, one of the regular meetings of ICSU could discuss the question, so that the proposed seminar certainly appeared to be unnecessary. [45] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) agreed with Miss Laise. He felt that the real question was whether scientists were the proper people to study methods of the diffusion of information. [46] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) remarked, as an aside to the discussion and without implying criticism, that he thought much time would be saved if constant queries about the programme itself were avoided. When, as was continually happening, discussion arose about the interpretation, elimination or reduc- tion of an item, the Committee was encroaching on the field of the Programme Commission. [47] The Cuban representative reminded the meet- ing that, on the first day, the Committee had decided, as its main and essential task, to consider the sug- gested appropriations and see whether they were justified. If that decision were not adhered to, the Committee would be undertaking unnecessary re- sponsibilities and, in many cases, the result would be, not what the Committee desired, but simply to create confusion. Mr. Brull therefore urged that the Committee should keep to the policy it had laid down at the beginning of its work. [48] The CHAIRMAN recognized the force of Mr. Brull’s remarks and added that he had at all times attempted to avoid exceeding the Committee's terms of reference and encroaching on the work of the Programme Commission, but that it was often difficult. [49] Mr. DURING (Sweden) informed the Secre- tariat that a seminar of the type under consideration was being organized in the summer by the Govern- ments of Norway, Sweden and Denmark, and that the     VITI-7 BUDGET attendance of a Unesco observer to study methods might result in economy and greater efficiency in the project under review. [50] The CHAIRMAN said that the comments made during the discussion would be noted in the Com- mittee's report. Material for Scientific Groups (page 130). [61] No comments. Science in War-devastated or Under-developed Coun- tries (page 130). [52] Mr. WYNES (Australia) suggested that the project could quite well be undertaken by ICSU without further expense, and asked whether the pro- posed lecture tours by experts were really necessary, since the Field Science Co-operation Offices could quite reasonably carry out the work. 7 [53] Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences) explained that the activities in question were directly connected with the development of the Associations for the Advancement of Science, 13 or 14 of which had been represented at the meeting or- ganized by Unesco to consider the possibilities of co- operation. Old associations, in France and the United Kingdom, etc., had stated their readiness to help new associations being formed in countries such as India, Iran, and Latin America, provided that Unesco gave them assistance to enable them to send well-informed people to those countries. That was the actual purpose of the resolution, the lecture tours being viewed as a complement to the work. Publications (page 130). [54] It was decided to discuss that matter under the general heading of Publications, as previously agreed, but Mr. DURING (Sweden) mentioned that his National Commission, having made a careful study of Impact, seriously questioned the usefulness of that publication. [55] That view was supported by delegates of the United Kingdom, United States of America, and Australia. ACTION IN THE Service or Human Ricars (IIL.2.F) (page 132). [56] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) felt tempted to apply to the modest estimates for such an important project the words the United States delegate had used in another connexion: “Too little to do well, too much to do nothing”. Mr. Guignolet was in favour of doing something, but he felt that a much larger budget was necessary and thought it would be wiser to wait a year, so as to obtain sufficient funds; COM MIT: TEE moreover,it would be better to wait until the current study on copyright was completed, so that its results might also be applied to the rights of inventors, [57] The suggestion was supported by Miss LAISE (United States of America), Mr. MOORE (Australia) and Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom), who pointed out that the point at issue was a question of priority in the programme. [58] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) informed the Com- mittee that the Secretariat proposed to strike out the two temporary posts suggested, representing a saving of $4,470 in all. Social Sciences (Part III.3). PROGRAMME Cosrs (III.3.A) (pages 136-137). [59] No comments. Am TO INTERNATIONAL SCIENTIFIC CO-OPERATION [IIL SB] Assistance to Scientific Organizations (page 139). [60] Mr. WYNES (Australia) said that his Govern- ment would recommend close examination of the increase from $25,000 to $38,000 in the sum allo- cated to subventions. [61] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences) explained that very few organiza: tions existed in the field of Social Science, and Unesco had been specially charged with encouraging their activities and assisting in the establishment of new bodies. Four new organizations had, in fact, been established under Unesco’s auspices, although the total number was still small in regard to the number of disciplines. It was proposed to assist one further organization in 1952—the International Psy- chological Organization. A sum of $3,000 would be set aside for assistance to organizations not estab- lished by Unesco, since it was felt that bodies which had revived by their own efforts since the war merited aid. All the organizations rendered great services in the execution of the Department's pro- gramme. [62] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) Te quested an assurance that the system of control of subventions in the Department of Social Sciences Was the same as that in the Natural Sciences Department. [63] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) replied that it Was, the administration of subventions in general being governed by regulations adopted by the General Conference.
546 547 [64] Unesd into migh whicl them certai Mr. G that y [65] Socia was wort scienc| most usuall natio Cleari [66] that tl [67] Social very The S pionee| have t Effortd tion, firm fd its act specifi Scienc [68] mende like to Intern Public [69] item u Perma tion arl    BUND GET [64] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) presumed that Unesco had carried out a thorough investigation into the affairs of the older organizations, which might be described as more or less dormant, and to which it wished to grant subventions. Before giving them a new lease of life, it was desirable to make certain that they were really efficient, and Mr. Guignolet was anxious to have an assurance on that point. [65] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences) pointed out that the Department was unfortunately not able to subsidize all the worthwhile organizations concerned with the social sciences. A careful selection had been made of the most useful and prominent bodies, which were usually international federations with a number of national branches. Clearing House (page 139). [66] Miss LAISE (United States of America) felt that the sum requested for the item was rather small. [67] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences) emphasized that the Secretariat was very modest in all its requests for her Department. The Social Sciences were still more or less in the pioneer stage and not yet adequately organized to have the popular appeal of other branches of study. Efforts were being made to improve their organiza- tion, but it was felt preferable to build slowly on firm foundations. The Clearing House would restrict its activities to obtaining information in response to specific requests from co-operating bodies, Field Science Co-operation Offices, or Member States. [68] Miss LAISE (United States of America) com- mended that method of approach, which she would like to see followed in other parts of the Organization. International Social Science Bulletin and other Publications (page 139). [69] It was agreed to defer consideration of the item until the general discussion on Publications. Permanent Co-ordinating Committee on Documenta- tion and Standardization of Terminology (page 140). [70] No comments. Teaching of the Social Sciences (page 140). [71] No comments. Research Institutes (page 141). COMMITTEE VIII-7 Institutes, Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences) explained that two resolutions had been costed under the item: Resolution 3.16 which called for a survey of existing research institutes in different parts of the world; and Resolution 3.17, requiring specific proposals for the creation of an international research institute in the social sciences. The establishment of the latter institute had been discussed in Ecosoc since 1946 and Unesco had been requested to investigate some of the suggestions made. A meeting of experts had been held and the problem had, as a result, become more clearly defined. The work, however, was still in the pre- paratory stage and much remained to be done. The particular subject-matter with which the institute was to deal had not yet been decided, although sever- al suggestions had been made. For the time being, permission was merely sought to continue the pre- paratory investigations, and report thereon to the next session of the General Conference. [73] The CHAIRMAN asked whether any location had yet been fixed for the conference mentioned in paragraph 3 of the work-plan, and whether that question would affect the estimates for the travel of delegates. [74] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) felt that the esti- mated cost of preparing for the establishment of an institute, whose object and headquarters were not yet fixed, was too high. Moreover, provision should be made for travelling expenses only in respect of national or international organizations whose resources were limited; other organizations should pay the expenses of their own delegates. Mr. Guignolet advised great caution in such purely preparatory expenditure, as the conference might prove unnecessary if, in 1952, after the preliminary survey, Ecosoc was not convinced of the value of the proposed Institute. [75] Mr. MOORE (Australia) reiterated the concern felt by his Government at the large amounts reques- ted for fees. He thought that the conference of experts to examine the preliminary findings of the survey was unnecessary, since the Secretariat was entirely qualified and able to do that job. [76] Sir Frank HARBY (United Kingdom) said that his Government was also concerned at the large provision for fees, but his own personal opinion was that it was often cheaper and more effective in the long run to employ consultants at the beginning of a project. He asked whether the control in the selection of experts was as strict as that for sub- ventions. [77] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences), replying to the Chairman, said that the location of the conference was not yet fixed, but    l e        VIII-7 BUDGET that the travel costs had been worked out on a care- fully estimated basis. Either the conference would be held in a country far distant from Headquarters, or it would be necessary to bring experts from dis- tant countries to the conference. It was very important for experts from all regions to partici- pate. [78] In reply to Mr. GUIGNOLET, Mrs. Myrdal explained that, if it were decided not to establish the international research institute, the proposed Unesco conference would be even more necessary to carry out co-ordinating activities. [79] The conference of experts, which Mr. Moore had proposed should be struck out, had the special task of making detailed plans for the location and staffing of the Institute. Many co-operating bodies were interested and it was only fair that they should be consulted. If the plans made were to be beyond criticism, they had to be checked by experts outside the Secretariat. [80] Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) said that the appoint- ment of consultants was under the jurisdiction of the Director-General and was not controlled by the General Conference. [81] A discussion ensued as to the desirability of recommending the establishment of a new proce- dure, whereby such appointments would be sub- mitted to the Executive Board for approval. Mr. HODSON (Head, Programme and Budget, Office of the Director-General) said that the Director- General felt strongly that the responsibility should rest with him, and that, in such appointments, definitive criteria were followed and a system of control was exercised within the Secretariat. [82] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) thought that the question was extremely delicate and that it could only be solved if there were a general system of supervision for all appointments of experts and advisers. In the existing circumstances, the comments suggested by the delegate of the United Kingdom should not be included in the Committee’s report. [83] After further discussion, it was decided that the matter was outside the jurisdiction of the Budget Committee, but might properly be raised in the Administrative Commission. [84] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France), as Rapporteur, wished to omit all reference to the matter from the Committee's report, in view of the explanation which had just been given. The question had already been raised in the Executive Board, some of whose mem- bers were experts; Mr. Guignolet felt that the matter was beyond the Committee’s terms of reference and should merely be mentioned in the summary record. COMMITTEE 548 Ат TO INTERNATIONAL SCIENTIFIC CO-OPERATION [IIL
3.B (2)] (page 144). Field. [85] Mr. WYNES (Australia) said his Government felt that the lecture tours should be undertaken exclusively by scientists visiting the region concerned for other reasons. He also felt that the sum allo- cated for contracts with non-governmental organiza- tions could be reduced by one-half, since no appro- priation had been made under that heading for 1951, and a total of $6,000 appeared sufficient for initial action. [86] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences) explained that it would be ex tremely difficult for the Secretariat to comply with Mr. Wynes’ suggestion regarding the lecture tours. Scientists visiting the regions concerned for other purposes were not always qualified in the matters upon which the lectures were required. The work- plan indicated that the Secretariat was bearing the possibility of economy in mind, but that it was quite often impossible to combine several duties. [87] The sum requested for contracts with non- governmental organizations, if divided among the four regions, represented only $3,000 for each region; Mrs. Myrdal did not feel that figure was excessive in view of the valuable services which would be obtained. [88] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) asked for further details about the $9,440 provided for local field help (page 145). He wished to know how many officials were involved, and whether or not they were included in the total of 29 for the Department. [89] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences) replied that, as the Department of Natural Sciences was responsible for administering the Science Co-operation Offices, she could not supply the information required until she had consulted members of that Department. [90] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) was sorry that he had not thought of raising the matter when the Natural Sciences section was being considered, and insisted on knowing the number of permanent offi cials involved in addition to the 800 headquarters staff. In the budgets of WHO and other Specialized Agencies, the numbers of both local and regional staff were generally shown. [91] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences) felt that the field personnel figures required by Mr. Guignolet should be given in con junction with those for the Department of Natural Sciences. She emphasized that local office assistance   tir So Ap Me
(1. err ur stu als dir [2] Sci pro ter: im] onl for CO-( itse Wol yea tion the [3] spol the izat
549 BUDGET was obtained on a monthly basis, and had no relation to permanent, posts in the Secretariat. [92] Miss LAISE (United States of America) asked whetherfield staff could assist in the survey for the research institute, thus permitting economy in fees. [93] Mrs. MYRDAL(Director, Departmentof Social Sciehces) replied that field staff would be used to stimulate action and obtain information for the survey, but that their knowledge of the various COMMITTEE VIII-7 regions—particularly during their first year of office—was insufficient to enable them to undertake the real survey work required. [94] The CHAIRMAN suggested that Miss Laise’s general remark should be noted in the report of the Committee. [95] Agreed. The meeting rose at 1.5 p.m. EIGHTH MEETING Thursday, 14 June 1951, at 3.30 p.m. Chairman: Mr. F. Benper (Netherlands) Examination of the Budget Estimates (con- tinuation) [document 6C/5 (IT) ]. Social Sciences (continuation) (Part III.3). APPLIED SOCIAL Sciences (continuation) (I11.3.C). Methods to Overcome Social Tensions (page 147). [1] Mr. WYNES (Australia) stated that his Gov- ernment did not think the proposed study was so urgent that it needed to be finished in 1952, and therefore suggested that three countries should be studied in 1952 and three in 1953. His Government also considered the appointment of a consultant to direct and synthesize the surveys was unnecessary. [2] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences) explained that it was never possible to promise precisely when such a survey could be terminated, but that the Department had found it impracticable to start planning for three countries only. It had been found more convenient to plan for all of them together, so as to obtain a better co-ordinated programme of research. The work itself would in fact extend beyond 1952, but it would be necessary to conclude contracts in that year. It would be noted that the eventual publica- tions resulting from the work were not included in the budget for 1952. [3] The consultant in question would be re- sponsible for comparing and synthesizing studies of the different countries carried out by various organ-
1zations. [4] The CHAIRMAN wondered whether it was proposed to hand over the work to any specific organizations, and whether there were enough scientists and research workers available to do it efficiently. He asked whether the project would be seriously harmed it the budget were to be reduced by the General Conference to, say, $10,000. [6] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences) replied that no definite decision had yet been taken regarding the organizations to be brought in to help in the enquiry, although it was known to be of interest to some of them, including the larger national research councils. [6] The project would certainly suffer serious harm if its budget were to be reduced to the extent pro- posed by the Chairman. If the Department had thought it possible to obtain the same results with a smaller budget, it would have made a proposal to that effect from the beginning. It was true that the costs might be distributed over several years, but there was definite value in being able to plan the programme as an integrated whole. The Department felt that the time had come to make an inventory of the methods used in different countries to overcome social tensions. It was a project which would be highly valuable to many other countries besides those under study. [7] Miss LAISE (United States of America) wondered whether it would be possible to concentrate in depth rather than spreading over so large an area. [8] Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social