АО ММО ТАТУ COMM I'S ОМ FIFTH MEETING Tuesday, 26 June 1951, at 10.30 a.m. Chairman: Baron van der STRATEN-WAILLET (Belgium) [1] The CHAIRMAN announced that the General Committee had asked him to congratulate the Com- mission and its Working Parties on the speed with which they had dealt with questions relating to the Budget. He extended a welcome to Sir Frank Tribe, External Auditor, who would present to the Com- mission his report on the Organization’s accounts for the financial year 1950. Collection of Contributions of Member States: First Report of the Working Committee on Con- tributions, Financial Regulations and Salaries and Allowances. [2] The report was approved without comment. Financial Report of the Director-General on the Accounts of the Organization for the Year ended
31 December 1950 (document 6C/ADM/2). Report to the General Conference by the External Auditor on the Accounts of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization for the Year ended 31 Decem- ber 1950 (document 6C/ADM/2 Add.). [3] Sir Ronald ADAM (Representative of the Execu- tive Board), speaking as Chairman of the Financial Committee of the Executive Board, said that the Board had examined both the reports with care and attention and, in transmitting them to the General Conference, would express its conviction that the accounts of the Organization were in good order. [4] Sir Frank TRIBE (External Auditor) then pre- sented his report to the Commission, pointing out that 1950 was the first year for which Unesco's accounts had been audited by the Joint Panel of United Nations Auditors in accordance with the “Principles to Govern Audit Procedures” approved by the United Nations. [6] The Executive Board had asked him, if possible and if consistent with the approved procedures, to limit his examination to a test of Unesco’s accounting system. Having reviewed the accounting arrange- ments of the Organization and its system of internal control, he had, happily, been able to do so, thus effecting an economy of time and money. [6] Two factors in particular influenced the finan- cial position of the Organization at the end of 1950, namely, the heavy arrears of contributions for that year, and the special measures adopted by the Fifth Session of the General Conference to finance the 1951 Budget. He knew that both those points were under serious consideration at the current session and, furthermore, that the deficit in contributions had been reduced since the preparation of his report. [7] He had also examined the operation of the Working Capital Fund and the Restaurant accounts. He was pleased to report that all the financial accounts of the Organization were in order. [8] Mr. BENDER (Netherlands) suggested that the Administrative Commission should express its agree- ment and satisfaction with the two reports. [9] There being no objection, the CHAIRMAN said that the Commission would recommend adoption of the two reports by the General Conference. Appointment of Auditor for 1951 (document
6C/ADM/8). [10] Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) presented the Secretariat document and asked whetherthe Com- mission had any objection to the resolution proposed therein. [11] There being no objection, the resolution was adopted unanimously. [12] The CHAIRMAN proposed that the Working Party’s terms of reference should be extended and that it should be requested to study, not only docu- ments 6C/ADM/10 (I) and 6C/ADM/10 (II), but all the documents relating to the salary, allowance and leave system. [13] That proposal was adopted. The meeting rose at 11.05 a.m.