IT-13 PLENARY sponsible for developing a programme to promote such ideals and aims; Be it resolved, as it is hereby resolved by the Board of Governors of the Foundation, to express to the General Conference of Unesco the warmest of greetings and the sincerest of wishes for a most fruitful session; Convey to the General Conference the Foundation’s wholehearted support of Unesco's basic programme, particularly its twelve-year fundamental education pro- ject and Assure the General Conference that, within its com- petence and resources, they will help implement Unesco's programme in the Philippines. MEETINGS 180 This is signed by the Secretary and members of the Board of Governors of the Unesco Philippines Educational Foundation. I wanted to bring this to your attention. I shall acknowledge receipt in your name. [61] There is no further business for this after- noon. I can congratulate you upon the spirit in which this discussion has been conducted today. The meeting rose at 5.51 p.m. THIRTEENTH PLENARY MEETING Monday, 30 June 1951, at 3.45 p.m. President: Mr. Ssst (Iran) CONTENTS Consideration and adoption of the report of the Procedure Committee on China's right to vote . Consideration and adoption of Administrative Commission on budget for 1952 [1] The PRESIDENT [Translation from the French] The Thirteenth Plenary Meeting is open. It has been convened by the General Committee for the consideration of the two following questions: presentation of the report of the Procedure Com- mittee on China’s right to vote (document 6C/PRO/
10) and adoption of the preliminary report of the Administrative Commission on the methods of financing the budget for 1952 [documents 6C/ADM/
17 and 6C/ADM/17 (rev.)]. [2] As soon as the General Conference has adopted these two reports, the meeting will adjourn to enable the Programme Commission to resume its work in this room. [3] Before calling on the Rapporteur of the Pro- cedure Committee, I wish to inform you that, at its meeting yesterday morning, the General Committee decided to appoint Wednesday 4 July for the meeting of the Nominations Committee at which nominations will be considered with a view to the election of six members of the Executive Board, to replace those whose term of office ends in 1951. The General Conference will elect the six members of the Ex- ecutive Board at the Plenary Meeting in the afternoon the preliminary report of the the methods
180 of financing the
184 of Monday, 9 July. I must remind you that, accord- ing to the Rules of Procedure, no candidate is eligible for election unless his name has been put forward before the ballot at the Plenary Meeting, either by the Nominations Committee or by two delegations. In accordance with the method followed in previous years, these nominations may be submitted either to the Chairman of the Nominations Committee or to the President of the General Conference. Consideration and Adoption of the Report of the Procedure Committee on China’s Right to Vote. [4] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] I call upon the Rapporteur of the Com- mittee, Mr. Bhuntin Attagara, who will now put before you the first report—that of the Procedure Committee, concerning the Chinese delegation’s right to vote. [5] Mr. Bhuntin ATTAGARA (Thailand), Rappor- teur of the Procedure Committee — I have the ن ا خ _ — _ _ — _ — — — C e ; p r e g r س ح ‎ е е е { F m F T A A A T e m g EEET E E E E E E E E E E E E a :
181 hon Com [6] Gend the | the Burd
26 ‎ل requ inc the dele was [7] that reso The deleg ferer Chin of E cont [8] Frer cedu putt whe [9] dent desi Co ol on y am Unid Wit poss dele Con to a oug| Con [10] whe tatid the gatil Chi alth has, Gov nevd acti pre cha the ado       — — m m . \ и д и
181 PLENARY honour to present the first report of the Procedure Committee (document 6C/PRO/10). [6] In accordance with a decision taken by the General Committee on 21 June and transmitted to the General Conference at its Tenth Plenary Meeting, the Procedure Committee was requested by the Bureau of Conference Planning, in a letter dated
26 June 1951, to consider the Chinese delegation’s request for permission to vote at the present session, in conformity with Article IV, paragraph C.8.b. of the Constitution. A proposal by the Philippines delegation, amended by the Australian delegation, was put before the Committee and adopted. [7] Consequently, the Committee recommends that the General Conference adopt the following resolution: The General Conference Approves the application presented by the Chinese delegation to vote at the present session of the Con- ference, it being clearly understood that the payment by China referred to in the letter from the Chinese Minister of Education of 18 May 1951 is in part payment of the contribution which continues to be due from China. [8] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] You have heard the report of the Pro- cedure Committee. I thank the Rapporteur. Before putting this report to the vote, I should like to ask whether anyone has any comments to make. [9] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) Mr. Presi- dent and fellow-delegates, I know that it is our desire to get on with the work of the Programme Commission as quickly as possible, and I apologize for having to ask your indulgence for a few minutes on this particular matter that is before us, but it is a matter of some importance and one on which the United Kingdom delegation has very firm views. With your permission I will explain as briefly as possible why, in the opinion of the United Kingdom delegation, we ought not to accept the advice of our Committee in this particular matter. We ought not to agree to this exceptional treatment of China; we ought not to allow the Chinese delegation at this Conference the right to vote. [10] Mr. President, those of us who were present when we discussed the question of Chinese represen- tation at this Conference, will doubtless remember the firm stand taken by the United Kingdom dele- gation on the question of the credentials of our Chinese friends. We made it quite clear that, although the Government of the United Kingdom has, for the last year, recognized the Central People’s Government as the actual Government of China, nevertheless, in view of the recent and continuing action of that Government in Korea, we were prepared to accept postponement of the question of changing Chinese representation in Unesco. We therefore agreed to the report of the Committee, adopted by this Conference, that the delegates MEE MINS 11-3 nominated by the same Government as had nomi- nated representatives of China to past sessions of this Conference should be accepted on this occasion. 1 want to make it quite plain that we regard the matter as closed and, in view of the stand we took when the Chinese representation at this session was under consideration, I am sure, Mr. President, that all my fellow-delegates will believe me when I say that the question before us this afternoon is one which we consider without any reference at all to the question of the credentials of the Chinese representatives at this Conference. Those credentials have been accepted and the members of the dele- gation are our colleagues at this Conference. [11] The only question this afternoon, therefore, is: should they or should they not be permitted to vote? Mr. President, the Constitution on this matter says two things. In the first place, it clearly stipulates that “a Member State which is in arrears in the payment of its financial contribution to the Organization shall have no vote in the General Con- ference, if the amount ofits arrears equals or exceeds the amount of the contributions due from it for the preceding full two years”. There is no doubt that China is in arrears with her contribution as a member of Unesco. The section I have read out (Article IV C.8.b of the Constitution) would therefore imply that there is no question for us to consider this after- noon. It would mean that China, having failed, for whatever reason, to pay sufficient contributions to satisfy that clause of the Constitution, would have no vote at this Conference, on the principle that the right to vote—which is a privilege implying at the same time a duty—should be accorded only to those who discharge their obligations to the Organization. This Article of the Constitution is the one sanction Unesco can apply in respect of non-payment of con- tributions. [12] However, in the following paragraph the Constitution provides for an exception to this rule: it stipulates that “the General Conference may permit such a Member State to vote if”—and only if—“it is satisfied that the failure to pay is due to conditions beyond the control of the Member Nation”—not the Member Government. If, at any time, the Con- ference is presented with a situation in which, shall we say, there has been an earthquake—an act of God—and it has been impossible for the nation to find the contribution necessarry, then the Con- stitution, with great wisdom (though not without some risk, as I shall hope to show) provides that the General Conference may take its courage in both hands and say: “This shall be an exception, this country is in arrears, but nevertheless, because of those conditions beyond the control of the Member Nation, the delegates from that country shall vote in our midst.” [13] Now, the report of the Procedure Committee that is before us—a Committee in which it was my duty to deploy some of these arguments and which,
11-15 PL ENARY by an overwhelming majority, rejected the wisdom of what I am saying—suggests to us at this plenary meeting that we should make an exception in favour of China. Tam afraid it is the duty of the United Kingdom delegation to vote against that recommen- dation and to express the hope that a majority of the delegates at this Meeting will show a greater appreciation of the arguments which were deployed in the Procedure Committee than the members of that Committee showed, and will agree with me in voting against the recommendation that we should make an exception in favour of China. [14] Mr. President, before concluding, I seriously urge all delegates in this room this afternoon to ponder well the risk they run if they agree to make an exception in favour of China on this occasion. Whatever our personal feelings may be (and I need hardly say that there is no question of personal feeling between any of us and the persons who represent China at this meeting), if we make an exception in this case and allow China to vote, we must face the fact that at every future Conference, any nation which has not discharged its obligation and paid its contribution in accordance with the Constitution, will come to us and ask that an exception be madeinits favour, and will produce— in all sincerity T have no doubt—the most pitiable appeal to our compassion to agree that, for reasons which were beyond its control, it has not been able to pay its contribution and that it may nevertheless be allowed, as an exception, to vote in our midst. I do suggest that the only wise thing to do is to harden our hearts on all such occasions in the interests of the financial stability of the Organi- zation, in order to avoid those terrible em- barrassments to which this Organization has been exposed over the last few years through the non- payment of contributions by China and by certain other countries. I suggest that in order to avoid those embarrassments, the Organization should auto- matically apply that provision of the Constitution to which I first referred and should say that, without passing any judgment on the goodwill of the Member Nation, so long as a Member Nation is unable to discharge its obligation of contributing its due quota to the funds of Unesco, so long shall the delegation representing that Member State not be allowed to vote. In particular, let me recall that the one serious and fairly narrow vote which we have had in our Conference so far was on the Budget. Mr. President, is it unreasonable to suggest that any nation, which, for whatever reason, has not succeeded in paying its contribution in past years, should not be permitted to vote on the question of the Budget figure for, shall we say, 1952. That is really the question before us and it is the submission of the United Kingdom delegation that we should not make an exception in favour of China. We agree that in many respects its condition is exceptional but we do not think that it is so exceptional that we   MEETINGS 182 should on this occasion waive the provisions of the Constitution and allow a vote to be accorded to the Chinese delegation. [15] My only other remark is this: that whatever decision is taken on this question of the vote, the United Kingdom delegation, like all of us, regards and will continue to regard the Chinese delegates as colleagues in all our business at this Conference, except in the matter of voting and, if the decision of the Conference is that they should be allowed to vote, of course, we agree that they are colleagues in that respect too, but our submission is that we should not, on this occasion, accept the proposal of our Committee. [16] The PRESIDENT — I thank the United Kingdom delegate and call upon the delegate of the Philippines. [17] Mr. Proceso SEBASTIAN (Philippines) [Translation from the Spanish] Mr. President, fellow-delegates, the Philippine delegation had the honour to adopt the other day the resolution which is now before us. My delegation, Mr. President, believes that this is a just resolution in that it fills a void. [18] A void, I say, because the other day in this very meeting we approved the right of the Chinese delegation to sit with us. However, up to this moment, although the Chinese delegation has been able to enter into the discussions, voting rights have been denied it. This resolution, however, is a logical sequence to the resolution we adopted the other day granting the Chinese delegation the right to enter into the discussions of our meetings. [19] It is an act of justice, Mr. President, because China’s failure in paying its contribution to Unesco is neither the result of negligence nor the lack of desire on her part to fulfil her obligations; it is rather the consequence of circumstances beyond her control. 1 am pleased that the distinguished dele- gate of Great Britain has remarked that the Con- stitution prohibits any Member State which has failed to pay its contribution from exercising its voting rights. We are the first to recognize the wisdomof this ruling in the Constitution, for Unesco would be unable to function if the Member States did not pay the contributions assigned by the Con- ference. However, Mr. President, we all know as well that China has been passing through an acute national crisis for the past four years due to the armed conflict between the forces of Mao Tse-tung and the nationalist forces of Chiang Kai Shek. A revolution or an armed conflict, shall we say, has compelled the nationalist forces and their govern- ment to move from the capital of Nanking at the end of 1949, to Canton and thence to Taipeh on the Island of Formosa. This revolution, Mr. President, which has brought about great economical upheavals in China were it to occur in any other country,     —  m r \
183 rE NSE would have analogous consequences. Needless to say, it is precisely these economic upheavals which have made it impossible at this time for the Chinese National Government to fulfil its assigned obliga- tions. Nevertheless, we know that China, in an effort to show her good will and desirous to co- operate in every way possible, has been contributing a more or less round sum of $15,000 each year and, althoughit is certainly verylittle, it is none the less a clear indication of her desire to work with us in our efforts to further science, education and culture. [20] Mr. President, as I have mentioned before, our delegation has not lost sight of the constitutional ruling that Member States which are two years behind in the payment of their contributions shall relinquish their voting rights and, as I have said, and as the distinguished delegate of Great Britain has said, MemberStates must pay their contributions. However, the same British delegate drew our atten- tion to Article IV, paragraph 8C, which provides that the Conference may grant voting rights to a Member State in arrears in the payment of its con- tributions if there is sufficient evidence to show that its failure to pay is due to conditions beyond its control. [21] Mr. President, taking into consideration the very special character of the situation in which Nationalist China finds herself and the fact that China was one of the founders of Unesco, and from that time to this has actively co-operated in our efforts to further culture, science and education, and since China has been unable to pay her full con- tribution as the result of conditions beyond her control, and the Constitution does provide for the restitution of voting powers in such cases, the Philippine delegation requests that at this meeting the Conference grant the Chinese delegation the right to vote. [22] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] 1 thank the delegate of the Philippines and now call upon the delegate of India. [23] Shri Mohammad HABIB (India) — Mr. Presi- dent, the Indian delegation has not the slightest intention of inflicting a long speech on an over- worked Conference. The main arguments for our attitude about the Government of Taiwan were put forward by my great chief, Sir Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, when the matter was discussed at the beginning. But this is a separate issue. On that occasion it was very painful for us to disagree with our good friends of the United Kingdom. Today I am glad to find that the United Kingdom delegates have, by a different course of reasoning, come to the same opinion as we have. On behalf of the Indian delegation I entirely endorse every point made by Sir John Maud, the delegate for the United Kingdom. If Unesco keeps on admitting to membership govern- ments who have been excluded by the will of their s = MEETINGS 11-183 people, and the aforesaid governments are unable to pay their contributions because of what has hap- pened not by an act of God or a misfortune of nature, but for things done by the hand of man; if, God forbid, we pass a resolution making it possible for governments excluded by the action of their people to the rights of voting, then what is going to happen to Unesco? However, Sir, I do not want to go into the issue in detail. If the majority is not convinced by the excellent arguments of our friend, Sir John Maud—and its not being convinced will only prove the great psychological truth that all men, even the wisest, are swayed by other elements in their life than reason—I mean, if these rational arguments which Sir John Maud has placed before us do not convince this august body any more than they convinced the Procedure Committee, in that unfortunate predicament, the Indian delegation wishes to assure the delegates of Taiwan or China (I won't quarrel over the name) that once admitted to our assembly, we will treat them as full blooded brothers. On that question the Indian delegation is clear. The Indian delegation is of the opinion that the Chinese delegation should not be given voting rights because of non-payment of contribu- tions for three years, and non-payment for three years is really a great and unpardonable offence against the Constitution. [24] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] 1 call upon the delegate of the United States. [25] Mr. George D. STODDARD (United States of America) — Mr. President, the delegation of the United States would like to support the report of the Procedure Committee and recommend it to the favourable attention of all delegations. I think it is worth while to read Article IV 8C of the Con- stitution, which is very explicit. It says: The General Conference may nevertheless permit such a Member State to vote, [that is a Member in arrears] if it is satisfied that the failure to pay is due to conditions beyond the control of the Member Nation. [26] And so the question for each one of us in his conscience and in his public vote is to say whether or not he is satisfied. There is no further question of the merits of having admitted the delegation of the Chinese National Government—all that is water over the dam—and these men sit among us as colleagues. Do we now feel satisfied on this one precise point, namely, that they would pay if they had the money or if they had access to the money? I do not understand the intricacies of finance but 1 suppose it is possible for a nation, like a person, to have money in one sense of the word, yet be unable to deliver it as hard cash when it is needed. We think that China eventually will have such resources
17-13 PASEN ARS —at the very least we hope so—but in any case we do believe, honestly and formally, that, if they had the money and if they had access to it, there would be no question at all about their intention to pay it over to Unesco and doubtless to all the other United Nations Agencies to which they may have obliga- tions. But, in addition to the technicality of our satisfaction, I think we should remember that they are here and I myself—and my delegation as a whole, I think—feel that Unesco should not take the lead in discourtesy and rule them out from our dis- cussions, at least from the final vote on the dis- cussion, regarding them (though they are here and admitted as Members and, indeed, as pioneer Charter members of Unesco) regarding them, as I say, as a kind of second-class citizen. It seems to me that we have done the big thing and now we are a little worried about doing something which is much smaller and makes much less demand upon our magnanimity. Certainly China has come upon unfortunate, upon unhappy, impoverished days, and I do not think we should take advantage of them in this situation. I do not worry either about what Sir John Maud said about the possible effect of the Chinese vote upon the size of the Budget. In the United States we have not noticed that any one Member, at any time, under any conditions, has more than about one sixtieth or one sixty-fourth of the total voting power of this Organization, and it seems to me that it is extremely unlikely that any argument or any vote on the part of one nation, a nation distinguished in its delegation for its modesty and its sense of fitness, would be likely to alter the decision which we should make. [27] Finally, it does not seem to me that we need worry about creating a precedent of this sort. As far as the United States is concerned, if any other great nation is so invaded, so pushed about, so downtrodden as to be in the present situation of China, we shall hope again to exercise our sense of the fitness of things and to take account of it. Unesco, of all groups, should be the last Organi- zation to think of its pound of flesh. Therefore, we approve this resolution and we call it to your fa- vourable attention. [28] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] 1 thank the delegate of the United States and call upon the delegate of Venezuela. [29] Mr. ZEREGA FOMBONA (Venezuela) — [Translation from the Spanish] Mr. President, fellow-delegates, the Venezuelan delegation wishes to repeat what was said in Committee on the question whether China should be refused voting rights. [30] The honourable delegates who have spoken before me have already gone deeply into the pros and cons of the question and I shall not spend any time repeating their arguments. However, I should like to refer to something said by the United States dele- gate, when he referred to a certain lack of judgment, MEETINGS 184 even a cultural shortcoming, and a violation of the higher spiritual principles of Unesco in seeking to exclude for a budgetary reason a country like China . which, from the very first, was among the apostles who co-operated in the inauguration and life of the Organization. If there is a case where it can be more logically and thoroughly proved that it is not lack of good will which prevents a country from fulfilling its obligations but, as provided for in para- graph 8C, circumstances beyond its control, that case is certainly China’s, according to the proofs and declarations presented. In the light of the fore- going, I herewith advise and suggest on behalf of the Venezuelan delegation that this decision by the Com- mittee be approved. [31] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] 1 thank the delegate of Venezuela. No other delegate wishes to speak? As the report has been seconded by the delegate of the Philippines, and by the United States and Venezuelan delegates, we can now proceed to vote on it. I ask the General Conference to vote by a show of hands on the report which has been submitted. [32] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) — Мау I ask for a roll-call vote? (This motion was seconded by the delegate of India.) [33] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] We will take a roll-call vote. [34] In favour: Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Boli- via, Brazil, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, France, Greece, Haiti, Honduras, Iraq, Italy, Korea, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Peru, Philippines, Switzerland, Thailand, Turkey, United States of America, Venezuela. Against: Burma, Denmark, India, Indonesia, Israel, Monaco, Norway, Sweden, United Kingdom, Yugoslavia. Abstentions: Afghanistan, Canada, Iran, Pakistan, Syria, Union of South Africa. Absent: Austria, Ceylon, Colombia, Cuba, Czecho- slovakia, Guatemala, Hashemite Jordan, Hungary, Lebanon, Liberia, Luxembourg, Panama, Salvador, Uruguay. The report was adopted by 26 votes to 10, with
6 abstentions and 15 absent. [35] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] As a result of the vote which has just been taken, I declare that the Chinese delegation is authorized to vote at the present Session in all the organs of the General Conference. Examination and Adoption of the Preliminary Report of the Administrative Commission. [36] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] Second item on the Agenda: the Adminis- с a — p e e e . т > e e — — — m — ” x n n e n cus and hoy pla [40 Frd tral del [41 gat to 4 ado giv Its ful ing nes
185 PLENARY trative Commission's preliminary report to the General Conference. At yesterday's meeting the General Committee decided that the Administrative Commission should submit to the General Confer- ence a report on the financing of the Budget for
1952, in accordance with the decision taken at the Second Plenary Meeting, concerning the total Budget figure. The Chairman of the Administrative Commission had already put before you, at the Twelfth Plenary Meeting, a preliminary report on the financing of the Budget for 1952, which was of great help to the General Conference in its discussion of the total Budget figure for that year. This was document 6C/ADM/17. Today the Chairman of the Administrative Commission is to put before us an amendment to that preliminary report. I will ask the Conference, after hearing the Chairman’s report, to make a decision on the report as a whole—that is to say, on document 6C/ADM/17, amended by docu- ment 6C/ADM/17 revised. 1 call upon the Chair- man of the Administrative Commission. [37] Mr. van der STRATEN-WAILLET, Chair- man of the Administrative Commission — [Trans- lation from the French] Mr. President, gentlemen, the Administrative Commission’s report, as you have just been told, was read at the last meeting. The amendment before you today is solely one of form. We have replaced the first paragraph of page 2 of document ADM/17 by a different wording, which I will now read to you: [38] The Administrative Commission recommends there- fore that the Director-General be authorized to use these non-recurring funds for the purpose of helping to finance the 1952 Budget, subject to the proviso that expenditure shall not exceed the Budget total approved by the Con- ference or the total of anticipated Member States’ contri- butions for 1952 plus the total of non-recurring funds, whichever is less. [39] As this wording did not give rise to any dis- cussion in the Administrative Commission, I presume that it is unlikely to be discussed here at any length, and, in order not to waste the Conference's time, I will refrain from making any comments; I am, however, quite prepared to give any further ex- planations that may be desired. [40] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] 1 thank the Rapporteur of the Adminis- trative Commission. I now call upon the Chinese delegate. [41] Mr. Tienfong CHENG (China) — Fellow-dele- gates, ladies and gentlemen, in the first place I wish to express my gratitude to the General Conference for adopting the report of the Procedure Committee, giving my delegation the right to vote at this session. Its action shows that the General Conference is in full sympathy with my country, which is at present in great distress, and that Unesco stands for righteous- ness and social justice. MEETINGS 1-15 [42] In the second place, I wish to propose an amendment to the report of the Administrative Com- mission, which has just been read. This report recommends that sums of non-contributed income, to the total of $640,000, may be made available for financing the 1952 budget. While the Chinese dele- gation completely supports the principle contained in this report, it takes strong exception to the last item. The China Reconstruction Fund was estab- lished by a resolution adopted at the Fourth Session of the General Conference in September 1949 (docu- ment resolution 4C/91). The resolution reads: [43] The Director-General is authorized to establish out of any funds allocated by the Executive Board for emergency aid to China in 1949 and remaining unobligated at the end of that year a special fund which shall be known as the China Reconstruction Fund, and which shall be available for obligation during 1950 for emergency construction in China, particularly for assistance to child and student refugees. [44] Fromthis resolution we can see that the fund was established for the purpose of meeting edu- cational needs and reconstruction in China, out of such funds which were originally allocated for aid to China. [45] In the year 1950, book coupons, etc., to the value of $19,000, and printing paper worth $21,000 were sent by the Director-General to my Govern- ment. The coupons were distributed to the Institute of Higher Learning in Taiwan and the paperis being used to print textbooks to be given free to high- school students in Taiwan. Now, ladies and gentle- men, you can hardly imagine how happy professors, teachers and students were when they received such help. ; [46] When the Communists occupied China in
1949, many university and high-school students fled to Taiwan to escape the expected reign of terror. After they had reached Taiwan, the Ministry of Education took care of them and sent them to dif- ferent schools and colleges-to resume their studies. In my written report to the General Conference I told you that in 1950 Taiwan had one national uni- versity, three provincial colleges and two provincial junior colleges with 6,573 students altogether. Of this number about 2,500 were refugee students from the mainland; there were 120 high schools with
76,380 students, about 15,000 of whom came from the mainland. Some of these students had parents or relatives in Taiwan, but most of them escaped to Taiwan alone, bringing nothing but the clothes they wore. Such students are given free board and lodging in schools and colleges but they cannot afford to buy their textbooks, so when they heard that they could get free textbooks they were certainly overjoyed. Even the Institutes themselves are badly in need of books and scientific equipment, since for several years shortage of foreign currency has prevented them from buying any books, magazines
11-13 PLENARY Our -professors accordingly welcome Unesco coupons just as much as our students welcome free textbooks. Of course $19,000 worth of book coupons can hardly meet the need, yet they help, and our professors are grateful to Unesco for this aid. On 21 November 1950, the Executive Board, on the report of the Programme Committee (document 24 EX/29) and apparatus. requested the Director-General to obligate, before the end of 1950, the money in the China Reconstruction Fund, to the greatest extent compatible with good administration, for the purchase of paper for textbooks, and of other educational supplies requested by the Chinese Government, and decided, in view of the fact that the resolution of the Fourth Session of the General Conference establishing the China Reconstruction Fund gave no precise direction as to the disposition of any funds remaining unobligated in the Fund at the end of 1950, that any funds so remaining unobligated at
31 December 1950 should be held in the Fund, but should not be available for obligation, pending a decision of the next session of the General Conference as to their disposition. Therefore the purpose of this Fund is to be decided at the present Conference. Ladies and gentlemen, the money in this Fund was allocated three years ago for aid to China. It was no fault of my Govern- ment that it was not opened before the end of 1950 and my delegation sees no reason why any part of this unused portion should be put into the general budget. Chinese colleges and schools are suffering from the destruction and ravages of war, and are as much in need of books and scientific equipment today as in 1949. This sum of $32,000, if put into the general budget, will not substantially change the financial situation of Unesco but, if used according to its original purpose, you would surely warm the hearts of many professors and refugee students and promote education and science in China. For this reason I venture to submit to the General Conference a draft resolution as follows: Considering that the China Reconstruction Fund was established for emergency reconstruction in China particularly for child and student refugees; and considering that the colleges and schools in Taiwan are still urgently in need of books and scientific equipment; the General Conference authorizes the Director-General to use in 1951 the balance of this Fund, $32,000, for the original purpose for which it was allocated. [47] The PRESIDENT — Before calling for a vote on the draft resolution submitted by the Chinese delegate, I should like to know whether anyone seconds this report. The report is seconded by the delegates of Brazil and Costa Rica. We will now put to the vote the draft resolution submitted by the Chinese delegate (document 6C/DR/74), regarded as an amendment to the report of the Administrative Commission. MEETINGS 186 [48] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, I really think there has been a misunderstanding. The Commission is now voting not the report, but on the amendment to the report, which entails an alteration in the Committee’s report and therefore a possible alteration in the vote on the ceiling figure of the Budget; it is in the light of this explanation, it seems to me, that the vote of the Conference should be regarded. [49] Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, I should like to give a brief explanation of the support given by the Brazilian delegation to the Chinese delegation’s proposal—an explanation which is connected with the fact that for a long time I had the honour to be Chairman of the Rehabilitation Committee, under the auspices of the Executive Board. For three or four years, as Chairman of that Committee, it was my task to make a close study of all questions connected with the Rehabilitation Fund, and on two subsequent occasions I took part in discussions in support of the view now being put forward by the Chinese delegation. It seems to me that the spirit in which the Rehabilitation Fund was estab- lished, and the procedure by which Unesco was enabled to create it, make it impossible to apply the sums in question for any other purpose than those for which the Fund was set up. [50] It is because of this matter of principle that I think we must not allocate the sum of $32,000 to Unesco’s annual Budget, but should use it for the purpose for which it was intended—that is to say, for educational, scientific and cultural assistance to China. We have just restored to the Chinese Government the full rights of a Member State, and it seems to me that to allocate to it, without more ado, the sum intended for it under the Rehabilitation Fund is merely a logical sequel to the vote just taken. It is, I think, only material obstacles—trans- port difficulties, and the difficulty of utilizing the money for the universities for which it was originally intended—which have so far prevented Unesco from discharging this duty. But it seems to me that it is for the Chinese Government to decide, in each specific case, to what end to employ the material intended for its use. It is in this spirit alone that I have ventured to ask you to support this recommen- dation. [51] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] The Chairman of the Administrative Commission. [52] Mr. van der STRATEN-WAILLET (Bel- gium), Chairman of the Administrative Commission — [Translation from the French] As Chairman of the‘ Administrative Commission, it is not for me to express any opinion on this problem as a whole; but I think a brief explanation is required to м
187 PLENARY elucidate the point on which you are about to vote. [53] Document 6C/ADM/17 sets forth the different methods by which we hope to meet our expenses during 1952. You will remember that the General Conference, at its last meeting, decided to fix the Budget ceiling at $8,718,000. It is proposed to raise these $8,718,000: (1) from contributions, though it has been recognized that in the ordinary course of events these are liable to fall short of their total, to an extent estimated at 7.5 per cent; (2) from a second source, that is to say, from the surplus, which consist of non-recurring funds which we have decided to employ for financing the Budget, in order to make up the deficit resulting from delay in the payment of contributions. [64] At the time when we fixed the Budget ceiling at $8,718,000, we had before us the report of the Administrative Commission, in which these non- recurring funds were estimated at $640,000, an important item in this figure being the $32,000 balance of the China Reconstruction Fund. If we now alter this figure of $640,000, our chances of raising a total of $8,718,000 for financing the Budget will be reduced. The sums we receive may turn out to be larger than were expected, and, in that case, it might nevertheless prove possible to finance the Budget up to the ceiling figure, as the Conference wishes; but they may also fall short of our expecta- tions and, in that case, if we reduce these non- recurring funds, the Secretariat will not receive the sums on which it has been relying for the financing of the Budget. That, gentlemen, is what I wished to explain so that you would be fully informed before voting. [66] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] The delegate of the United Kingdom. [56] Sir John MAUD (United Kingdom) — Mr. President and fellow-delegates, you may recall that when we were debating the budget ceiling we first considered a proposal by our Australian friends and then considered, and rejected, a proposal by the United Kingdom. The United Kingdom resolution was in two parts; the first part suggested a certain budget figure, and the second part suggested formal acceptance of the Administrative Commission’s pro- posal that we should empower the Director-General and the Board to use $640,000, if necessary, to make up any sums which did not come in from Member States during 1952, in order that we might give him a real, instead of a fictitious, budget. Now, if the wisdom of this General Conference had been more in accord with the opinion of the United Kingdom, not only would we have voted a figure of $8,500,000, but we should also have accepted the Administrative Commission’s proposal to use those $640,000. That proposal was not disputed at the time and, I thought, was assumed by all of us to be sound. [67] Now, whether my Brazilian friend deliberately MEE TINGS 11:13 or involuntarily made his proposal only a single one of $8,700,000, whether he deliberately did not invite the Conference on that occasion to decide to accept the wisdom of the Administrative Commission, on which, as far as I know, there has been very general agreement among all delegations that this $640,000 should be made available in 1952—whether he did that deliberately or not, it would be most improper for me to guess—but I know the way T would guess if I had to. Be that as it may, in my opinion, all the discussion of the budget figure, including the conclusion to which we eventually came (we did, in fact, vote $8,700,000) and to which I am glad to say the United Kingdom delegation was able to consent, was on the assumption that, not only did we wish the budget, whether it was a floor or a ceiling, to be 8.7 million, minus possibly 7.5 per cent of that sum, namely $600,000, but as near 8.7 million dollar notes as we could get in 1952. Therefore, I myself think that it would be illogical for us now to decide not to accept the advice of the Adminis- trative Commission. I do agree that the point made by our Chinese friend is a very powerful point, that it is very painful for us to take the decision to change the purpose of the China Reconstruction Fund, but I was a member of the Executive Board when that Fund was constituted, and certainly my impression was that we created that Fund as an exception to our general rule, our general rule being that, if money is not spent at the end of a financial year, it is surrendered, and cannot be carried on for expenditure later. But in the special circumstances, at the time when we set up the Fund, we took a magnanimous view that that money should be continuously available for the next year in the hope that it could be spent on the purpose for which it was originally voted, namely for the reconstruction of China. And I think myself that, in the present circumstances, althoughit is a difficult decision, it is a reasonable decision, and that we should not regard this odd sum which is outstanding at the end of 1950, as available for expenditure in any part of China, after that date. We should therefore accept the advice of our Administrative Commission and include that in the sums which can be made avail- able to the Director-General, in case Member States do not—though we greatly hope they will—pay in full their contributions for 1952; in which case this sum will not be needed. [58] I therefore support, on behalf of the United Kingdom, the proposal of the Administrative Com- mission, and I think that we ought to harden our hearts and reject the amendment to that proposal put forward by the delegation of China. [59] The PRESIDENT — I call upon the delegate of Costa Rica. [60] Mr. Eduardo TREJOS DITTEL (Costa Rica) — [Translation from the Spanish] Mr. President, i         X
11-13 PEE fellow-delegates, I realize that the discussion of the Chinese proposal was already closed, and that we were proceeding to a vote, but since there remained a doubt in the minds of some of the delegates con- cerning the proposal to be voted on, there was occasion to re-open the question, and I believe it my duty to give in two or three words my reason for endorsing the proposal by China. I shall sum up simply by saying that it is in accordance with the principles of Unesco and I believe we should be departing from those principles in making any adjustment which would lead to the sacrifice of edu- cational, scientific and cultural projects. This would place us in a paradoxical position, and I believe it our duty, therefore, to stand whole- heartedly behind the Chinese motion. Unesco can gain the hearts of peoples all over the world when they realize that the Organization is passing from the level of promises and philosophical digressions to the plane of reality, where it is rendering tangible services and I think that China has the right to request that those funds, which were originally appropriated to carry out a specific programme in the field of science, culture and education, a pro- gramme of which China was unable to make full use for reasons bevond its control, should not now be diverted from the purpose for which they were originally intended. Therefore, my delegation sup- ports the Chinese proposal, and we hope our fellow- delegates realize that it would be rather illogical to take a position which would sacrifice a programme for the furtherance of education, science and culture to a change in the budget. [61] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] I call upon the delegate of France. [62] Mr. Julien CAIN (France) — [Translation from the French] The French delegation voted just now in support of China’s right to vote. It did so in a spirit of warm cordiality. But the problem we now have before us is entirely different. It has been set forth very clearly by the Chairman of the Administrative Commission. The remarks just made by the United Kingdom representative were also very explicit. The French delegation takes the same view. It considers that, however distressing the present discussion, and however great the regret we may feel at being unable to support the consider- ations so eloquently put forward by the Brazilian delegate, the continuity of our views must be maintained. During the last few days we have laboriously built up the prerequisites of a balanced Budget. As you know, the same laborious dis- cussion is still going on in the Programme Сот- mission. How can we suddenly thrust aside those prerequisites which we took into consideration in fixing the ceiling figure? And, I repeat, are we entitled to go back on a decision which we had already tacitly arrived at? For my part I think not. MEETINGS 188 That is why I support the considerations expressed by the delegate of Great Britain and oppose the Chinese amendment. [63] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] TI call upon the Liberian delegate. [64] Mr. Nathaniel V. MASSAQUOI (Liberia) — The Liberian delegation is again confronted with an apparently paradoxical situation. At this Confer- ence we first rejected Communist China on grounds best known to ourselves; next, in the place of Communist China, we accepted the Nationalists of Formosan China, giving them the right to vote. Prior to this, a very infinitesimal sum, about $30,000 was appropriated for rehabilitation services, a service to which Unesco has pledged its support, a service which Unesco owes to about half a billion people, a service which goes to lay the foundation of freedom and peace in one of the biggest areas in the world. [65] I refer nowto the position in which we find ourselves. Are we, after having given Nationalist China the right to vote here, or, because we have given Nationalist China the right to vote, are we to withdraw from half a billion people the services which Unesco should rightly contribute towards those people? Are we here to go back on our decision? What does the right to vote amount to if we do not recognize the right of the Chinese people to enjoy some benefit from the Organization? I therefore feel that, at this stage, we should not go back on our decision. The position would be para- doxical were we to contend that Formosan China has the right to vote, has the right to take a seat at this Conference as a full Member State, and yet has no right to enjoy the privileges due her under the Rehabilitation Service. The Government of Liberia, therefore, is strongly supporting this idea, is strongly in favour of giving Formosan China support under the Rehabilitation Service and will vote in favour of it. There is no other stand for us fo take. Let us be men—let us face the facts. In the Far East today the Great Powers are adopting a very strange, a contradictory attitude, now favouring one side, now favouring the other. Let us be men. If we are against Communist China, let us say so! If we are against Formosan China, let us say so! You cannot be both for and against. The Government of Liberia, therefore, is solidly behind Formosan China and is in favour of Formosan China enjoying all the privileges and benefits as a Member State of Unesco, and we shall vote for the Rehabilitation Service. [66] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] I call upon the Chairman of the Executive Board. [67] Count JACINI (Italy) — [Translation from | | ;   s r ج ح ل ح ا ل م ح ن ا ك ل م ‎ا E ب ح ا ل ه — ح ب ب ب ح ح ص ب ل ح ج ح ت ‎ Л И
18 th to std
189 PLENARY the French] I should like to speak, not as Chair- man of the Executive Board, but in my own name, to put right what, in my opinion, is a misunder- standing in the speech just made by the honourable representative of Liberia. The funds in question are not funds for distribution to China; they are funds which have become available, and which were to be put at the disposal of the Formosan Government. That is a substantially different matter. [68] We have done for the Formosan Government all that a democratic assembly should and could do: we have granted it full rights, we have agreed to regard it as representing China as a whole. But we cannot allocate funds for it to spend in China, because it is not there. What we can do at the present moment is to put those funds at the disposal of the Director-General for financing the Budget for
1952. [69] The paradoxical situation mentioned by the honourable representative of Liberia does not, there- fore, exist; it is not a question of being both for and against the anti-Communist China of Formosa, it is a question of being in favour of the Formosan Government in regard to all matters within its jurisdiction, but not of giving it funds which it is not in a position to use for the purpose for which they were intended. It thus seems to me that there can be no contradiction if we simply vote on the motion just put before us by the Chairman of the Finance Commission. [70] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] 1 call upon the New Zealand delegate. [71] Mr. H.W. MASON (New Zealand) — Mr. Presi- dent, fellow-delegates, let me say at the outset that this is a question which should not be decided on emotional grounds, but one to be considered calmly and in a spirit of cool consideration. It is going to cost this Organization an additional $32,000. Let us be quite clear about that. I would like also to state at the outset that my delegation voted not only for the acceptancee of the credentials of the Chinese delegation present at this Conference, but also that China should have the right to vote. One of the delegations which has spoken to this motion has said that the Fund in question—on which the Chinese amendment is based—was destined for a special purpose. Fellow delegates, everything we vote at this Conference is destined for a special purpose, but our financial arrangements provide for the surrender each year of that portion of the fund which is unused and those sums go forward to succeeding years in order to finance further projects, also for special purposes which we vote at future Conferences. That is the reason, gentlemen, why the funds in question are now available, and that is the reason why the Administrative Commission was able to recommend the use of these funds for financing the 1952 Budget. [72] The draft resolution of China is, therefore— MEETINGS 11-14 and let there be no mistake about it—a new budgetary item and should properly be considered as an additional item to the budgetary ceiling which we have already voted. As the United Kingdom delegate and the Chairman of the Administrative Commission pointed out, the budget ceiling dis- cussions took place in the light of the miscellaneous items of income which would be available in 1952. We cannot now re-open the discussions on the Budget ceiling and if we were to accept the draft amendment of the delegate of China, we would raise our budget ceiling by $32,000. My delegation would therefore be strongly opposed to the adoption of the Chinese amendment and we strongly support the acceptance of the recommendations of the Adminis- trative Commission. [73] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] I thank the New Zealand delegate. I will now call upon the Director-General and, when he has spoken, this discussion will be closed. [74] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, my task has been rendered very simple by the extremely clear and intelligent summary of the position which the Head of the New Zealand delegation has just given. As he so explicitly stated, this is not a political gesture, you are not giving your opinion for or against a government which has its seat in your midst and which has just been honoured by a majority vote and by unanimous applause. This is a question of cold figures and a question of logic: you have fixed a ceiling figure for the Budget; you have fixed it in the light of a report submitted to you by the Chairman of the Administrative Commission; that report described the methods by which the Budget could be financed. You cannot, therefore, with- draw your tacit approval of the Administrative Commission’s report, without invalidating your vote on the ceiling figure. A Plenary Meeting of the General Conference has, of course, full powers, but in any case it seems to me to be found by an under- taking given before this date, before this week, when the ceiling figure was fixed. It is, I repeat, in the light of this cold but clear reasoning that you must now make your decision. [75] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] In the light of the explanations we have been given, I will now put to the vote the amend- ment proposed by the Chinese delegation (document
6C/DR/74), before asking for a vote on the report of the Administrative Commission. The amendment is rejected by 25 votes to 14, with 3 abstentions. [76] We will now proceed to vote on the report submitted by the Chairman of the Administrative Commission. This, I repeat, is a general vote on document 6C/ADM/17, as amended by document
6C/ADM/17 (revised). Adopted unanimously. The meeting rose at 5.17 p.m.