171 PLEN AR Y of sound budgetary practice, namely, the application of certain sums which become available this year to offset possible non-payment of contributions, the New Zealand delegation would say that it has always been the practice of Unesco to refer the details of what is to be the sound financial practice of the Organization, to the Administrative Com- mission. The Administrative Commission yesterday considered this question of making this additional income available, and it resolved by a very large, I should almost say an overwhelming, majority, to approve the application of this principle for the
1952 budget, that is to say, to make available these sums to offset a possible deficit in the payment of contributions. No one can foresee what the position will be in 1952 and no one at this point can legislate MEETINGS 11-12 for the budget of 1953. I would recommend to the Conference, Mr. President, fellow-delegates, that we confine ourselves to considering what is most ex- pedient for 1952. [126] In conclusion, the New Zealand delegation would like to reaffirm that it supports the United Kingdom proposal for a budget of $8,500,000, the understanding being that this will be an effective working budget. [127] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of New Zealand, and we will bring to a conclusion our plenary meeting of this morning with his remarks. The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m. TWELFTH PLENARY MEETING Monday, 25 June 1951, at 4.22 p.m. President: Mr. HowLAnD SARGEANT (United States of America) CONTENTS Discussion of the Budget Estimates for 1952 (conclusion). Speeches by the delegates of Cuba, India, Lebanon, Egypt, Switzerland, Uru- guay, Belgium, United States of America and France. by the Director-General Fixing of Provisional figure for 1952 Budget Discussion of the Budget Estimates for 1952 (conclusion). [1] The PRESIDENT — This afternoon's plenary meeting is open. As soon as they are available, you will receive copies of the resolutions moved this morning by the delegates of Australia, the United Kingdom and Brazil. These have been prepared so that, before voting you may have before you in writing, the proposals put forward so far in the course of this discussion. This afternoon, the dele- gate of Cuba has asked to be our first speaker. I also have a request from the delegate of India. Would any others who wish to speak please notify the Secretariat. I call upon the delegate of Cuba. [2] Mr. Mariano BRULL (Cuba) — [Translation from the Spanish] Mr. President, Mr. Director- General, fellow-delegates, I am going to be as brief as possible in my remarks concerning the two topics   Comments
178 of discussion now before this conference. On the one hand, we have the proposal of the United Kingdom, on which other delegations of the British Common- wealth are in agreement, and on the other the Brazilian proposal regarding the ceiling for the budget under discussion. The first thing which strikes us when looking over the sum proposed by the United Kingdom is that it has undoubtedly been based on the figures of the last budget with the addi- tion of a more or less elastic sum for the purpose of rounding off a budget of $8,500,000 which provides for a possible increase in appropriations during 1952 for the services and work in progress. Other con- siderations suggested by the programme seem to have been left out of this estimate for the reason that we are dealing with new work and especially a whole conception, an entirely different way of carrying out the programme compared with last year, and so we are obliged to concern ourselves with concrete sums as far as possible. In looking over the proposal of
11-12 PLENARY the Brazilian delegate, who suggests a figure of $8,718,000, the first thing we notice is the addition of $18,000 to the already enormous sum of $8,700,000, that seems to indicate that a very meticulous and detailed study has been made, and for that reason the figure arrived at was not a round sum. It must be remembered that this morning the Budget Committee submitted its report, and the Budget Committee's work, as you all know, is to analyse in detail all expenditures to determine whether they are reasonable, and in spite of going perhaps too far sometimes in making reductions as the result of criticism it has not been able to bring down the budget figure from $9,666,500 proposed by the Director-General to the currently proposed figure of $8,718,000. This shows once again that the figure proposed by the Brazilian delegate represents perhaps the most reasonable estimate, being the minimum we can accept without impairing the efficacy of the programme we have adopted. [3] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of Cuba for his remarks. I now call upon the delegate of India. [4] Sir S. RADHAKRISHNAN (India) — Mr. Presi- dent, I am grateful to you for giving me another opportunity to speak on this budget figure. I see we have come very close to agreement on the prin- ciples as well as the figures. All of us are agreed that we should not do anything to curtail the activi- ties of Unesco and we must try to assist the Director- General in working out the programme, at any rate at the level we reached at Florence. It comes to this, that, at Florence, our budget figure was $8,200,000. Even if we do not expand our activities, if we do not launch out on other programmes, that very pro- gramme, which at the Florence level was $8,200,000, will automatically, at the Paris level of 1951 be $8,700,000, for the obvious reason that price increases and salary increments will result in an additional expenditure of $500,000. In other words, if we ex- pect the Director-General to work out his pro- gramme at the Florence level, it will now, taking the fluctuations of prices and other things into account, cost us $8,700,000. Sir John Maud, on behalf of the United Kingdom delegation, proposed a budget of $8,500,000 which I had the honour to support, and Brazil, France, Mexico, Cuba and others proposed a budget of $8,718,000. The difference between the two figures is just $218,000. I think the figure is not so large as to require a division of this Conference. The principle is agreed, namely, that the same level must be maintained this year also. It is also agreed that, on account of changes in prices and increments, that very programme will now cost us $8,718,000. On the figures, there is a slight disparity; on the principle, there is complete agree- ment. That is our present position. I think it will be possible for us to reach agreement here if we take MEETINGS 172 the figure of $8,700,000, and an effort should be made by the Secretariat, the Director-General, and Member States also, to make the contributions effective. I do hope that, in view of this small disparity and that large agreement, it will be possible for us to reach some kind of unanimous conclusion at this Con- ference. I should certainly ask, taking into account the Technical Assistance Programme, that we should request the United Nations to allot to us more than our present quota of 14 per cent. I think it is a very important item so far as our programme is con- cerned and 14 per cent is much too small a figure for the activities on which we happen to be engaged. [5] So far as the fundamental education projects are concerned, they are outside the budget and we shall have to depend on voluntary and other contributions; so, since we are all agreed that there should be no reduction in the level of our programme activities, I hope the United States and the United Kingdom will also agree to this figure of $8,700,000. [6] The PRESIDENT — 1 thank the delegate of India. I now call upon the delegate of the Lebanon. [7] Mgr. MAROUN (Lebanon) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, gentlemen, I am one of the delegates who have come to this Conference without any precise instructions from their govern- ment with regard to the budget. This places me in a privileged position, since I am thus able to examine this question with the utmost impartiality and also with all the scruples of one who certainly has at heart the success of this undertaking, Unesco. [8] Since I have no precise instructions, I have been widely consulted by my colleagues at this Conference. This morning, however, we listened to the Chairman of the Budget Committee, who presented to us the following formal statement of his Committee’s re- port: “The Committee feels that it is unlikely that substantial economies can be secured by the critical examination of the Budget Estimates, such economies being more likely to result from the amendment of the programme resolutions and the work plan.” The situation, then, is this: we have a programme care- fully drawn up by the Executive Board, work plans for this programme admirably prepared by the Secre- tariat, and, above all, this preparation is backed by six years’ experience; lastly, we have the budget esti- mates for this programme. These are the three factors before us. [9] With regard to the budget estimates, we have the opinion of experts, who consider them, by and large, to be correct. Any budgetary changes would necessarily involve changes in the programme. Gentlemen, you have a programme almost identical with that adopted in Florence. Accordingly, any alteration would necessarily entail a retreat of Unesco itself, a curtailment of its activities. Our situation is comparable with that of a father who, having a child at school, thinks to himself, “This year, he is —   у т — - = —
173 PLENARY in the fifth form; to save money let us keep him in the fifth.” [10] There is a third possibility, gentlemen; we could arrange for the programme to be carried out by bodies other than the Secretariat, that is, we could have recourse either to the National Commissions, to inter-governmental organizations, or to experts themselves, by correspondence. [11] But Unesco would be incurring a very real danger, were it to modify its work plans at the present stage. We are all of us profoundly aware that our National Commissions, in the great majority of Member States, are today incapable of supplying the Secretariat with the means of carrying out the pro- gramme, without calling upon experts; the inter- governmental organizations are in virtually the same position as the National Commissions. Lastly, we should be holding up the programme if we were to resort to the system of correspondence with experts to arrange for its execution. [12] Accordingly, gentlemen, I bow to the facts; 1 recognize that any modification of the budget, as proposed to us today by the delegate of Brazil, would, once again mean a retreat for Unesco and would seriously jeopardize the Organization’s present posi- tion. If we sincerely wish Unesco to maintain the impetus it is now gathering, the Lebanese delegation is compelled to assert that it frankly cannot vote for any but the figure proposed to us by the dele- gate of Brazil, supported by the Head of the Indian delegation. [13] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of the Lebanon and call upon the delegate of Egypt. [14] Taha HUSSEIN Pasha (Egypt) — [Transla- tion from the French] Mr. President, I apologize for breaking into a discussion of the budget. I under- stand absolutely nothing about financial questions, but I have two points to make: firstly, we are all unanimous in admiring Mr. Torres Bodet’s report and the programme presented to us by the Executive Board; secondly, we are delighted at the great head- way made by Unesco this year and we are asking the Director-General and the Executive Board alike to continue Unesco’s work on an increased scale. If we want to be consistent, it seems to me only natural to enable the Director-General and the Executive Board to press forward and to meet all the requests we made in our speeches about the Programme and the Report; accordingly, it is only right to grant the means of pressing forward. [15] Besides, the difference between $8,500,000 and $8,718,000 is so trifling that, quite frankly, I do not think it worth any lengthy discussion. In discussing figures and grudging this little sum to Unesco, we seem to be placing the Director-General and the Ex- ecutive Board in an impossible situation. We have a saying that: “He has been thrown into the water with his hands and feet tied and is asked to try not   MEETINGS 11-12 to get wet!” What we are doing now is to throw the Director-General into the water with the words: “Try not to get wet!” [16] We must be consistent. We are asking the Director-General to make Unesco stride forward, but we must also give him the means to do so. And so, though I think it a pity for us to be arguing over so trifling a sum, I am firmly convinced that Mem- ber States, even if it means their making some small sacrifice, will find it possible to raise this small sum to enable the Director-General to work. It makes me sad to think that we are quibbling over $218,000 for peace and culture, though at any moment a war may demand tremendous and ineluctable sacrifices from any State which will bow to the necessity of imposing these sacrifices on its people. [17] Gentlemen, I appealto you to give the Director- General the means of working, and I am happy to say that Egypt will vote for the proposal by the Head of the Brazilian delegation and is prepared to step into the breach, should Unesco’s means prove inadequate. Egypt is ready to do what it can, what it must, to add to the Director-General’s means of working. [18] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of Egypt. I now call upon the delegate of Switzerland. [19] Mr. PIAGET (Switzerland) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, I shall be very brief and will merely dwell on three questions of principle: [20] Firstly, the reductions of our national budgets which we have had to accept in all countries do not absolve us from the international commitments into which we haveentered. All countries are in more straitened circumstances than last year; in all coun- tries the economic situation and rearmament are imposing hardships, but these do not absolve us from our obligations to the international organizations, for these obligations are on another plane. We have undertaken to provide for the normal running of our Organization and this should be our overriding consideration when voting on the budget. [21] Secondly, we neither wish nor believe that the increased membership of the Organization should mean a reduction in the contributions of present members. An increased membership entails fresh tasks, fresh duties and so it is only natural that it should mean new resources with no reduction in the con- tributions of present members. [22] Thirdly, in our opinion, the efficient running of our Organization requires a minimum budget— what Mr. Carneiro called a “floor”—and we shall support this minimum figure. We have been told that administrative expenditure can be pared down no further; the Budget Committee itself says that any cuts, if such there be, would be bound to have repercussions on the programme. Now the present programme cannot be reduced, for it is inadequate
11-2 : PLENARY in many respects: many items of the programme are merely symbolical, foreshadowing future tasks and not representing the fulfilment of present tasks. We are in duty bound to carry on with these manifold tasks, having embarked upon them. We are asked for a slight increase to a figure of $8,718,000, but this morning we all realized that this was no real increase. Above all, we realized that it would not mean any real increase in contributions but, in certain cases, even a slight decrease. Accordingly, we shall vote for the figure of $8,718,000. [23] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of Swit- zerland. I nowcall upon the delegate of Uruguay. [24] Mr. MONTANER (Uruguay) — [Translation from the Spanish] Mr. President, fellow-delegates, the Uruguayan delegation listened with great atten- tion and interest to the arguments put forward in this Conference by the Chairman of the Executive Board, the Director-General and the Chairmen of the Commissions studying the matter in question. The reports submitted by the Executive Board and the Director-General are fine, informative documents con- taining arguments of unquestionable value, arguments which are for us a short lesson, the fruit of wide experience, and at the same time point the way in matters of finance if Unesco as an Organization is to fulfil its purpose and functions effectively. [25] Finance and the programme seem to be the two points on which the opinion of this Conference is divided, and it appears that in the past there has been a shifting of emphasis on these two points. Which of them will appear the more important will depend upon the orientation of our thinking. I have noted that the great nations which we, the smaller and younger peoples, so admire have placed more emphasis on: the matter of finance, whereas the smaller nations, particularly our Latin American countries, have tended to consider the programme of greater importance. This cleavage of opinion within the Conference has led the Uruguayan delegation to consider its own views carefully. For which are we to show a preference? The Uruguayan delegation and especially its Head consider the programme of first importance, but this does not mean that we shall ignore the question of finance, especially after having heard the previous speakers. We listened with the greatest respect to their arguments, and we know they have a great financial responsibility for the cultural work carried out by Unesco. They have great international obligations, and many of an incidental character, which are now becoming ex- tremely acute. Furthermore, these delegations, 1 repeat with pleasure, which are examples for us both in history and cultural achievement have a very keen and realistic outlook, and we listened with special attention to what they had to say. However, we re- cognize that, as the old saying has it, there is no standing still: if we do not advance, we are bound MEE TINGE 174 to retreat. If Unesco is to rule out the possibility of future educational, scientific and cultural activities for strictly financial reasons, it will not only ruin all chances of effectively carrying out its current projects, but it will be out of the question to consider any new suggestions which might lead to future work of wider scope. Although Uruguay’s contribution is made in accordance with a set scale, it would be willing to make any effort, even financial, in order that the programme should not be in any way held back and so that, if possible, the maximum extension of the plan envisaged by the Director-General shall be the objective towards which we all strive. Furthermore, we have a profound admiration for Unesco as a world entity and centre for the spread of truth, justice and peace for all. We believe that herein lies the means of easing existing tension and bringing about unity among the peoples. We, there- fore, consider that any financial obstacle would be un- fortunate in that it might curtail Unesco’s possibilities of carrying out the cultural work necessary to attain. those ends. [26] Finally, Uruguay recognizes the intrinsic worth of the documents and conclusions presented by the Director-General and the Executive Board. It also realizes that if it is necessary to adopt a fixed budget; it must not be forgotten that an Organization such as Unesco, vibrant with life and inspiration, cannot be governed by solely financial considerations. [27] In the light of all that has gone before, on behalf of my delegation and its Head and fellow members, and in the name of our country, I propose that the figure of $8,718,000, suggested by the Brazilian delegation be accepted as the budget figure best allowing of the attainment of our aims. On several occasions during today’s meeting, the name of Uruguay has been mentioned, especially in re- ference to dollars saved by the fact that Uruguay will not have the honour and the great pleasure of acting as host to the Unesco Conference next year. We are resigned to being deprived of this exceptional chance, but it means a real sacrifice for us. Our delegation was prepared to offer our warm hospitality to our fellow-delegates, and if this fact is still of any account, I should like to emphasize it as an induce- ment to you to approve the proposed minimum ceil- ing which will enable Unesco to carry out its 1952 programme efficiently. [28] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of Uruguay, and now call upon the delegate of Belgium. [29] Mr. van der STRATEN-WAILLET (Belgium) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the interest taken by Belgium in Unesco’s work is borne out by its acts. Our promptness in paying our contributions, submitting reports and replying to questions addressed to us prove that Belgium is firmly convinced of the need for international collaboration in matters of culture. — + bt y E =
8 E e N a = = © a5 pr for to rec COT of ma
15 1 shc ecu yea feel sev cer stri ma fin: thi this roa on [31 Bel; gat [82 Mr. spe: — E E T E J T E F E C r T T R I I , W E T W S G E S g r
175 PLENARY Today it holds this conviction more firmly than ever. The special defence efforts now required of most of us are no excuse for us to relax our efforts in the field of culture. We all know that peace is defended not by arms alone and that a civilization and culture must above all be preserved through intellectual col- laboration. Accordingly, Belgium joins practically all members of this Conference in the view that Unesco cannot be forced this year to relax its present efforts to ensure this collaboration in edu- cation, science and culture. Last year, the Belgian Government therefore made a special effort for technical assistance, a large proportion of which is earmarked for cultural collaboration, the literacy campaign and similar tasks. Belgium is very active in the international field. Its contributions to all international organizations, exclusive of the Monetary Fund and the Bank, exceed $1,5600,000—no small effort for so small a country as ours. [30] Gentlemen, we also believe that at present this figure can by no means be exceeded. According to provisional estimates, the effort asked of us today by the Director-General will presumably not involve an overall increase in contributions. If this informa- tion is confirmed, if the figure of $8,718,000 does not entail an increase in contributions, the Belgian Government can support this figure, enabling Unesco to keep its activity at the level fixed in 1951: if that is the case, the Belgian delegation supports the proposal of $8,718,000. But, before concluding, I must add that we cannot overlook the fact that for a second consecutive year we are resorting to the unsound financial practice of using non- recurring revenue to finance regular expenditure. I am aware that part of this non-recurring revenue consists of arrears in contributions, so that it is not of an entirely exceptional character, but the fact re- mains that the other part of the balance we are using is non-recurring. I therefore feel that, this year, we should ask the Programme Commission and the Ex- ecutive Board to continue the efforts they began last year to compress and concentrate the budget. We feel that there would still be means of paring down several items of the budget by a better indication of certain priorities, and by dropping certain items not strictly essential. If, before the end of next year, we make this effort to provide for the 1953 budget to be financed out of regular resources without relying a third time on the unsound practice we are adopting this year, I consider that we shall be on the right road and able in future to avoid awkward discussions on the amount of contributions. [31] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of Belgium for his remarks. I now call upon the dele- gate of the United States. [32] Mr. INGRAM (United States of America) — Mr. President and fellow-delegates, I have asked to speak again because I gather from conversations I MEETINGS 11-32 have had in the corridor that the United States posi- tion may not have been fully understood and I am very anxious that you should understand our posi- tion. [33] I have heard some remarks during our dis- cussion which seem to me to be, first of all, a mis- interpretation of the report of the Budget Committee. This does not say that economies are not possible except at the cost of the programme. The report of the Budget Committee says that the cost estimat- ing is correct. If you had all sat through the hearings of the Budget Committee, I think you would agree with me that those investigations in many cases pointed out that, with an improved organization of work and with improved program- ming, the same and even a greater amount of work can be done for the amount of money which we are now putting into Unesco. I submit that that is a very proper consideration for us to bear in mind when we are discussing the budget. [34] I have also heard a reference to the amount of $200,000 as being too small to quibble about. I ask you, if it is too small an amount to quibble about, why must we automatically accept the higher figure? I have attempted to demonstrate—and the United Kingdom delegate has also—that a budget of $8,600,000 will support the present level of opera- tions if economies are properly realized. Support of a higher figure of $8,700,000 in our eyes, not only calls upon Member Governments for unnecessary funds, but it also overthrows the recommendations of the Administrative Commission and engages us again into areas of unsound finance. I submit that this also is a very important consideration in any budget discussion. [35] I have heard delegates say that support for a budget of $8,700,000 would not increase their monetary contributions. For them that is very fortunate. In the case of the United States and of those countries that are on the maximum scale, it would mean an increase in their monetary contribu- tions. Do we wish to demand that of them for a $200,000 that has been described as something too little to quibble about? [36] It is difficult, I know, in discussions of one agency's budget to keep in perspective the total funds which are being devoted to those enterprises which interest us. One of the greatest projects of inter-organizational co-operation, the Fundamental Education Training Centre in Mexico, is supported both by Unesco and the Organization of American States. The United States contributes almost
70 percent of the total expenses borne by the Organ- ization of American States. My delegation regrets that the budget presentation of Unesco this year has not, as requested, fully revealed the relationship between the funds requested for the regular budget and the funds coming to Unesco from the United Nations expanded programme of technical assistance.
11-12 PLENART Unesco is receiving this year almost $2,500,000 from that fund and is requesting almost twice that amount for next year. To this programme, the United States contributes 60 per cent or $12,000,000 of the total cost of $20,000,000. Since Unesco is receiving these substantial additional resources, to which the United States contributes so largely, I should be less than frank with this Conference if I did not say that I anticipate the greatest difficulty in persuading my Government that it is reasonable for the United States to increase its contribution in 1952 to support an increasingly large budget, based upon what the Administrative Commission has recognized as an unsound basis of financing. [37] The PRESIDENT — 1 thank the delegate of the United States. I nowcall upon the delegate of France. [38] Mr. SEYDOUX (France) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, fellow-delegates, today I address you rather as a representative of the Union of Unesco Veterans, for I am now fighting my seventh campaign. Mr. Montel, the Deputy Head of the French delegation therefore asked me, as a member of the Executive Board who has taken part in the work of the Conference from its very beginning, I might say, to express to you my views, which are also those of the French delegation. The discussion of the ceiling, the floor, or the total budget figure—wathever the term used—is no new question. Indeed, if my memory serves me aright, it was first raised by the French delegation at the Mexico City Conference and at that time was keenly criticized by the Secretariat, which regarded it rather as an encroachment on its independence to fix a prior ceiling for its budget. Each year the discussion of the ceiling draws a crowd and today we are pleased to see so full a house. [39] But the difference between this year and pre- vious sessions is that not criticism but praise is now the order of the day. Like you, I have listened with great interest to all previous speakers and I may say that there has been unanimous or well-nigh unanimous praise of the programme, and the way in which Unesco has worked; the general tenor of their remarks has invariably been praise of the Organization and praise of the Director-General, since Unesco is at last reaping the fruits of its labour. But this morning dissentient, though not discordant voices were raised to propose a budget figure of $8,500,000. This afternoon, other figures have been put forward in support of the proposal by the honourable delegate of Brazil. Gentlemen, may I revert to the remarks made by the distinguished Head of the Egyptian delegation, Taha Hussein Pasha? The difference between these two figures—$8,500,000 and $8,700,000—is really minute. I can say that it is the first time in Unesco’s history that I have taken MEETINGS 176 part in a discussion of the ceiling where the differ- ence is so slight. As a rule there has been talk of seven millions, eight millions, or six millions; now the difference has been narrowed to a sum of about $200,000. Never have we been so near agreement as at our meeting this afternoon. Thus, and here I beg leave to disagree slightly with the honourable delegate of the United States—it is not a purely budgetary problemthat divides us; to some extent it may be called a moral problem, a normal matter for an Organization such as ours which sets itself such lofty tasks. [40] In fact, the problemis one of faith in Unesco's mission, not in any particular man, not in the Secre- tariat, but in Unesco as a whole. Each of us must respect the position of his neighbours, and, in the speeches made this morning—l refer more parti- cularly to the fine speech by the United States delegate, and the noble words spoken by my old friend, Sir John Maud, with whom I am often in disagreement—I was impressed by the arguments put forward. Each country has its difficulties; there are problems of national defence, there are parlia- mentary problems; we ourselves have our own diffi- culties, and we must seek to understand the diffi- culties of our neighbours. But I feel that everyone will agree with me that we have reached a specially critical phase in world history, a phase at which war and peace may be said to hang precariously in the balance and, in this great venture for peace — the United Nations—we now know—a truth heard repeatedly these last few days—that Unesco is truly an essential link, a sine qua non. [41] Should we be very proud this evening as we leave this room if we had voted a budget which, for the first time in Unesco’s history, would have the effect of reducing contributions? I do not say that our financial experts would not be very pleased, but I am thinking of ourselves. What would all those concerned with our Organization think? What would be thought by the Head of this House, and by the National Commissions? And what would all the peoples think whose eyes are turned to us anxiously, but also hopefully? [42] In short, we have to share out an additional sum of $60,000 (perhaps $65,000, it would not, 1 think, be less than $60,000) to be shared out amongst 60 States. Gentlemen, I feel that the defence of peace, that the success of Unesco are easily worth $60,000, and I would add: It is not in a tense atmosphere with the odds at 25 against 22, or 18 against 32, that we should vote for Unesco's budget. Today, more than ever, we should vote in a spirit of unanimity, for the figure of $8,700,000 proposed by the Brazilian delegate. This figure should enable us to maintain Unesco’s aclivities at the same level as last year. [43] Gentlemen, this Conference is probably the last which I shall have the honour to attend. May و م س س ي —  — m - — — — ® —
177 sin in | [44 Fra old ple! wis Gell ma spe [45 frof afr the hea ee wo abl pre dut [46 pos rea pra wh сия ang tal of buf ind vie in ou     v u s
177 PLENARY I, as a veteran, urge you to adopt this figure with a single mind, with undivided enthusiasm and faith in the destiny of the House? [44] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of France for his remarks, reminiscent indeed of an old soldier in Unesco’s ranks. We have now com- pleted the list of intending speakers. Do any others wish to take the floor before I call upon the Director- General for such observations as he may care to make prior to the final vote? If there are no other speakers, 1 shall call upon the Director-General. [45] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, gentlemen, I am afraid you are asking me to undo the good effect of the most eloquent speeches the Conference has just heard and, more especially, the moving appeal made by Mr. Seydoux of the Executive Board and a most distinguished member of the Freuch delegation; I feel that your hearts have been moved and that you would be more inclined to vote for a budget accept- able to Unesco now than after the few frank and precise but hardly eloquent explanations it is my duty to give you. [46] If I have understood correctly, three pro- posals, and not two, are before the Conference. 1 really feel that one of them has not received a great amount of support, but it does exist, and this is the proposal that, I feel, most endangers Unesco’s future; I refer to the proposal made by the honourable dele- gate of Australia. He has requested you to adopt $8,500,000 as the budget ceiling, regardless of the Administrative Commission's proposal to finance this budget with the $640,000 obtainable from various sources indicated in its Report. The Australian proposal would mean a reduction, not only in contributions, but in Unesco itself. It is so glaring a reduction that, if you deduct, from the $8,500,000 proposed, the $640,000 that the Australian delegation advocates leaving untouched when financ- ing this budget, we are left with a figure of $7,860,000, that is, a figure lower than Unesco obtained at its 1949 Conference for the financial year 1950. It means a retreat, and a very big one. I regard this proposal as a threat to our Organization. [47] There is another proposal, made by the dis- tinguished Head of the United Kingdom delegation; and I feel that I have never been more sincere than when 1 tell Sir John that, while I regard this dis- cussion—I might even say contest—from a different angle, T must pay tribute to his impartiality, his talent and his eloquence. The distinguished Head of the British delegation suggests to you a real budget of $8,500,000 and he says “It means not an increase but a stabilization”. TI do not share this view, for it means not a stabilization but a reduction in contributions and also a slight curtailment of our present activities. What is this reduction? I MEETINGS 11-12 shall explain my attitude on this matter later when I come to the problem of the programme. [48] Lastly, we have a proposal from my dear friend, the honourable Head of the Brazilian dele- gation, supported by the Heads of the delegations of Uruguay, France and several other countries and, with admirable eloquence by Taha Hussein Pasha, who also launched an appeal to the Conference. That proposal is for a budget of $8,718,000. Gentlemen, this figure does not mean any increase in Unesco's resources but a maintenance of our present possibilities, and it involves no increase in contributions for the majority of Member States. Indeed, it will mean a reduction for 36 countries out of the 59 old Member States, and for 23 countries an increase that is very slight, save for the United States of America. Even if you adopt the figure of $8,718,000, this will mean for France a reduction of $7,990, for Britain a reduction of $14,154, for Iran a reduction of $574, for Belgium one of $1,421, for India a reduction of $6,328, whilst the Netherlands will pay $379 more. 1 shall not read the entire list but it is at your disposal and the Secretariat may show it to you; it implies a reduction for the majority of countries and an increase for a very few. The large increase is for the United States of America, but this does not depend on the decisions taken by the plenary meeting, nor on the order of priorities adopted for the programme, nor on whether the programme is stabilized or not; it is bound up with the history of the United States’ participation in Unesco, the great assistance it has always given us and the fact that the percentage of that assistance has been decreasing, but not fast enough to enable the United States to benefit, like other countries, from any contributions through the admission of new Member States. [49] The honourable delegate of the United States of America, in his second speech, spoke to us of his regret that the budget presentation of Unesco does not reveal the relationship between the funds re- quested for the regular budget and those coming to Unesco from the technical assistance programme. I must confess my concern at this request, since the General Conference at its Fourth Session expressly stipulated that: It is recognized by the General Conference that clear operational and financial distinction must at all times be preserved between Unesco’s normal programme activi- ties and its technical assistance activities. A few lines further, the same General Conference resolution of Unesco points out that: “Any transfer of activities from the normal programme to the technical assistance programme, or vice versa, would be likely to disturb the proper distribution of normal programme operations among all Member States.” The inference is that any pooling of the resources
11-12 ; РЕНА У Unesco receives for technical assistance with those subscribed for its regular budget would be contrary to the expressed wishes of the General Conference; it would further confuse the discussion and would destroy a most important thing—the independence of Unesco and its programme, [50] After these explanations, ladies and gentle- men, I feel that Unesco may look forward to a vote in favour of its existence. 1 feel at my side an invisible presence, an abstract figure—Unesco’s budget—and it has fallen to my unhappy lot to defend this invisible presence. I defend nothing which interests me personally: the Unesco budget is not my budget, it is yours. Unesco is you your- selves, hence you yourselves must decide if you wish to survive, to lead a better existence or to stagnate; the words stabilization of the Specialized Agencies may have a pleasant ring, but may I tell you that it is an attitude I cannot understand? When you have a child, do you “stabilize” it? At what age? And when you bring a living entity into being in your countries, do you stabilize it? Gentlemen, stabilization spells death; it is a kind, polite way of killing. T shall always raise my voice against sta- bilization, becauseit is so easy to say: “Let us create organizations, give them responsibilities, but don't let us give them the means of discharging these responsibilities; they are stabilized”. If you stabi- lize the budget T suggest that we cut down the pro- gramme, that we talk smaller and frankly admit that we are a little Organization with a humble Constitu- tion and not the fine and far-reaching Constitution given us by our founders. [51] While we are on the subject of stabilization, allow me to read to you some words which are more than mere words: they were uttered by a person who has my deepest regard, Mr. Laugier, formerly Assistant Secretary-General of the United Nations, who, in that capacity, when hestill held this post, said to the Economic and Social Council assembled at Santiago, Chile:   If, with your customary kind indulgence, you would regard me for a moment as a man about to attain freedom, I will not conceal the fact that I shall fight with all my strength against what is termed the sta- bilization of the United Nations. To my mind, in a world shrunk by science, at a moment when, along frontiers laid down by the hazards of history or geogra- phy, customs officers and infantrymen are absurdly mounting guard, the peoples of the world, whether they will or mo, are moving inexorably towards inter- dependence, as a new concept of man is painfully emerging. Demonstrations of this inter-dependence are daily more necessary; they must daily be clearer and more whole-hearted. What I have said in various parts of the world I repeat here: if men, women and children are facing death on the field of battle, if hundreds of millions of this world’s inhabitants are living a life unworthy of man, stricken by disease, ill-housed, ill-fed, ignorant and in want, it is partly because the United MEETINGS 178 Nations, now five years old (and we might say the same for Unesco), are not yet strong enough, great enough, mighty enough, to impose on all the unanimous will of all peoples who desire, first and foremost, peace, pro- gress and social justice. And so, Mr. Laugier went on to say, he would fight to make the United Nations greater, stronger, more noble, to make them an increasingly clear expression of the world’s conscience, to increase their means of action so that their increasing author- ity might daily be placed more effectively in the service of man’s struggle for the liberation of man. [52] Delegates, for a week you have been shower- ing generous praise on Unesco’s work. You have reached the point at which you must translate words into deeds. Men and assemblies will be judged by their’ “deeds: This morning IT told you that 1 confidently awaited your decision. I trust I may go on to say that I already have whole-hearted con- fidence not only in your judgment but in Unesco’s goal, a goal that necessitates adequate means. Mr. Seydoux has just said that he hoped for a unanimous vote. I share his hope, not because this vote would be so heartening for me and my assist- ants, but because it would be a great encouragement for the peoples, since peace cannot be voted by a mere majority. Fixing of Provisional Figure for 1952 Budget. [53] The PRESIDENT — I thank the Director- General for his remarks. Does anyone else wish to speak before we proceed to vote on the three motions proposed and seconded in the course of our dis- cussion today? The text of these three motions should now be distributed to the delegates who are here assembled. [64] If no others wish to speak, I will now outline the voting procedure. : [55] According to the Rules of Procedure by which we are governed in our Unesco General Conferences, we normally consider the amendment which is the farthest removed in substance from the original proposal. That is, we should first consider today the motion originally submitted by the Australian delegation. We should then go on to consider the resolution presented by the United Kingdom, and, lastly, the resolution presented by the Brazilian delegation. [56] We should vote on each proposal in order and separately. For your reference, the draft resolu- tion submitted by the Australian delegation is docu- ment 6C/DR/41, that presented by the United King- dom is document 6C/DR/47, and the draft resolution presented by the Brazilian delegation is 6C/DR/48. [67] We are now ready to vote on the draft resolu- tion submitted by the Australian delegation. I have received a request in writing for a roll-call vote on { > ا ب ي ب ج و ح ب   с и т о с н = ‏ ب س ب ا ر ح س ا ل ب ب ي . ب m i —
0 طيالبايلا the draft resolution presented by the United Kingdom. So far I have received no request for a roll-call vote on the draft resolution submitted by the Australian delegation and, unless such a request is made by at least two delegations, we shall not have a roll-call on the Australian delegation’s proposal. We are now to consider the draft resolution submitted by the Australian delegation (document 6C/DR/41). To avoid any mistake, I shall read it aloud. In view of the financial problems Member States; In view of the recommendation of the United Nations General Assembly that the budgets of the Specialized Agencies of the United Nations should be stabilized; and In view of the importance of adhering to proper bud- getary practice, The General Conference decides:
(1) That Unesco’s total budget for 1952 shall be provisionally fixed at the amount of $8,500,000.
(2) That within this provisional total, the expenditure for the year 1952 shall not exceed the amount of con- tributions actually received fromm Member States. now confronting You have heard the motion. I shall now ask those in favour of the Australian delegation’s draft resolu- tion to raise their hands. Those in favour of the motion? Those who are opposed to the motion? Abstentions on the motion? I declare the motion lost. The votes were: 4 in favour;
1 abstention. [68] We now come to the second draft resolution, that presented by the United Kingdom. One dele-
38 opposed; gation has submitted a written request for a roll- call on this motion. An additional delegation must support the request if there is to be a roll-call. The United Kingdom does. Therefore the vote on this resolution will be by reading of the roll. I now read you the resolution: The General Conference decides:
(1) That Unesco’s total budget ‘for 1952 shall be provisionally fixed at the amount of $8,500,000.
(2) That the Director-General be authorized to carry out in full a programme up to the limit of this total, augmenting the contribution of Member States in 1952 if necessary by utilizing certain non-recurring funds designated by the General Conference. You have heard the motion which has been moved and seconded. I will now ask that the Secretary call the roll: The vote was taken by roll-call: Voted in favour: Australia, Austria, Bolivia, Canada, Denmark, Greece, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Pakistan, Philippines, Sweden, Thailand, Turkey, Union of South Africa, United Kingdom, United States of America. Voted against: Afghanistan, Belgium, Brazil, Burma, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, France, Haiti, Hashemite MEETINGS 11-2 Jordan, Honduras, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Italy, Lebanon, Liberia, Luxembourg, Mexico, Monaco, Panama, Peru, Switzerland, Syria, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yugoslavia. Abstained: India. Absent: Argentina, Czechoslovakia, Ceylon, Guatemala, Hungary, Korea, Poland, Salvador, Saudi Arabia. I declare the motion lost, on the following tally: in favour, 17; opposed, 31; abstentions, 1; absent, 9. [59] We now come to the third resolution pre- sented by the Brazilian delegation, moved and seconded. I have as yet had no requests for a roll- call vote on this motion. The United Kingdom wishes a roll-call vote. Does anyone associate his delegation with that request? Brazil, India, New Zealand, Lebanon. We will therefore ask the Secre- tary to call the roll ‘after the reading of this resolu- tion. The resolution is as follows: The Brazilian delegation proposes that the General Conference should adopt as the provisional figure for the Unesco budget for 1952, the sum of $8,718,000 sug- gested by the Director-General. You have heard the motion. I now ask the Secre- tary to call the roll: The vote was taken by roll-call: Voted in favour: Afghanistan, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, Burma, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, France, Greece, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Italy, Hashemite Jordan, Lebanon, Liberia, Luxembourg, Mexico, Monaco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Switzerland, Syria, Thailand, Turkey, United Kingdom, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yugoslavia. Voted against: Canada, Union of South Africa, United States of America. Abstained: Australia, Austria, Sweden. Absent: Argentina, Czechoslovakia, Guatemala, Hungary, Korea, Poland, Saudi Arabia. Ceylon, Salvador, [60] The PRESIDENT — The result of the tally is the adoption of the motion presented by the Brazilian delegation by the following count:
43 in favour; 3 opposed; 3 abstentions; 9 absent. I declare this motion adopted. Before concluding our business today, I wish to present to you a short resolution which has just come in. Whereas the Unesco Philippines Educational Foundation is dedicated to the task of furthering the aims and ideals of Unesco in the Philippines; ‘Whereas the General Conference of Unesco is re-            IT-13 PLENARY sponsible for developing a programme to promote such ideals and aims; Be it resolved, as it is hereby resolved by the Board of Governors of the Foundation, to express to the General Conference of Unesco the warmest of greetings and the sincerest of wishes for a most fruitful session; Convey to the General Conference the Foundation’s wholehearted support of Unesco's basic programme, particularly its twelve-year fundamental education pro- ject and Assure the General Conference that, within its com- petence and resources, they will help implement Unesco's programme in the Philippines. MEETINGS 180 This is signed by the Secretary and members of the Board of Governors of the Unesco Philippines Educational Foundation. I wanted to bring this to your attention. I shall acknowledge receipt in your name. [61] There is no further business for this after- noon. I can congratulate you upon the spirit in which this discussion has been conducted today. The meeting rose at 5.51 p.m. THIRTEENTH PLENARY MEETING Monday, 30 June 1951, at 3.45 p.m. President: Mr. Ssst (Iran) CONTENTS Consideration and adoption of the report of the Procedure Committee on China's right to vote . Consideration and adoption of Administrative Commission on budget for 1952 [1] The PRESIDENT [Translation from the French] The Thirteenth Plenary Meeting is open. It has been convened by the General Committee for the consideration of the two following questions: presentation of the report of the Procedure Com- mittee on China’s right to vote (document 6C/PRO/
10) and adoption of the preliminary report of the Administrative Commission on the methods of financing the budget for 1952 [documents 6C/ADM/
17 and 6C/ADM/17 (rev.)]. [2] As soon as the General Conference has adopted these two reports, the meeting will adjourn to enable the Programme Commission to resume its work in this room. [3] Before calling on the Rapporteur of the Pro- cedure Committee, I wish to inform you that, at its meeting yesterday morning, the General Committee decided to appoint Wednesday 4 July for the meeting of the Nominations Committee at which nominations will be considered with a view to the election of six members of the Executive Board, to replace those whose term of office ends in 1951. The General Conference will elect the six members of the Ex- ecutive Board at the Plenary Meeting in the afternoon the preliminary report of the the methods
180 of financing the
184 of Monday, 9 July. I must remind you that, accord- ing to the Rules of Procedure, no candidate is eligible for election unless his name has been put forward before the ballot at the Plenary Meeting, either by the Nominations Committee or by two delegations. In accordance with the method followed in previous years, these nominations may be submitted either to the Chairman of the Nominations Committee or to the President of the General Conference. Consideration and Adoption of the Report of the Procedure Committee on China’s Right to Vote. [4] The PRESIDENT — [Translation from the French] I call upon the Rapporteur of the Com- mittee, Mr. Bhuntin Attagara, who will now put before you the first report—that of the Procedure Committee, concerning the Chinese delegation’s right to vote. [5] Mr. Bhuntin ATTAGARA (Thailand), Rappor- teur of the Procedure Committee — I have the ن ا خ _ — _ _ — _ — — — C e ; p r e g r س ح ‎ е е е { F m F T A A A T e m g EEET E E E E E E E E E E E E a :
181 hon Com [6] Gend the | the Burd
26 ‎ل requ inc the dele was [7] that reso The deleg ferer Chin of E cont [8] Frer cedu putt whe [9] dent desi Co ol on y am Unid Wit poss dele Con to a oug| Con [10] whe tatid the gatil Chi alth has, Gov nevd acti pre cha the ado