481 ADMINISTRATIVE [70] Mr. Seydoux pointed out that if it was impossible to obtain a large majority in favour of the above directives, a vote would have to be taken on each of the resolutions proposed. [71] The CHAIRMAN suggested that the Com- mission should ask the Working Committee simply to work out a new compromise solution involving a reduction of net remuneration, without adding other explanations. [72] Mr. SEYDOUX (France) thought it essential to give the Committee some directives to guide it in working out the compromise. [73] The CHAIRMAN observed that the Commis- sion could later discuss the new text worked out by the Committee. [74] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL feared that a vote on the directives proposed by the French delegation might lead to some confusion. He suggested that the Commission should first decide whether or not it desired a greater reduction than he had himself proposed; only if the answer was in the affirmative would new directives have to be given. [75] The CHAIRMAN agreed with the Director- General. E [76] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) thought it was essential to take a vote, as the Director-General had proposed. [77] As there were really only two concrete pro- posals—since the French delegate's proposal was vague—he asked that the Commission should vote on the proposal formulated by the Director-General in his report. [78] Mr. PRUDENCIO (Bolivia) agreed with the delegate of Cuba and asked that, in order to clarify the question, a vote should be taken onits substance. [79] The proposal of the representative of France— a country of clarity and reason—had for once created confusion, which it was necessary to dispel. A vote should accordingly be taken, in the first place, on COMMISSION VII-8 whether or no the reduction in salaries was to be accepted. [80] The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the following resolution: “The Commission resolves to request the Working Committee to present it with a proposal involving a reduction of salaries greater than that proposed in the Director-General’s report.” [81] At the request of Mr. MASON (New Zealand), it was agreed to take the vote by roll-call. [82] In reply to a question from the delegate of AUSTRALIA, the CHAIRMAN explained that to vote “in favour” would signify approval of the principle of a reduction in net remuneration for staff engaged before the Florence Conference; to vote “against” would mean approval of the transitional measures which the Director-General proposed to apply to the staff concerned. [83] The vote was taken by roll-call. Voted in favour: Australia, Canada, Denmark, Israel, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, Union of South Africa, United King- dom, United States of America. Voted against: Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Egypt, Greece, Haiti, Japan, Liberia, Mexico, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Uruguay, Vene- zuela. Abstained: Belgium, Burma, India, Italy, Lebanon. Absent: Afghanistan, Argentina, Ceylon, Czecho- slovakia, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Guatemala, Hashemite Jordan, Honduras, Hungary, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Korea, Luxembourg, Monaco, Pakistan, Poland, Salvador, Saudi Arabia, Syria, Thailand, Turkey, Yugoslavia. China, France, [84] The proposal was rejected by 16 votes to 12, with 7 abstentions. [85] The Director-General’s
6C/ADM/10 (I) and Addenda] approved. report [document was consequently The meeting rose at 6.40 p.m.     ADMINISTRATIVE COMM TS SI ON NINTH MEETING Thursday, 5 July 1951, at 3.30 p.m. Chairman: Administration of the Working Capital Fund (document 6C/ADM/7 rev.). Consideration of the Report of the Working Committee (document WS/071.12). [1] The CHAIRMAN drew attention to an omission in the French version of the working document. [2] He called upon the Chairman of the Working Committee to present his report to the Commission. [3] Sir Ben THOMAS (United Kingdom), Chairman of the Working Committee, had little to add to the report before the Commission. The main departures from document 6C/ADM/7 (rev.) (page 5) were in sub-paragraphs 2 (i) (a) and 2 (ii)(a). In paragraph
2 (i)(a), dealing with the withdrawal of sums to finance self-liquidating expenditure, the working party had been anxious to ensure that the Organization should have access to supplies in terms of time rather than in terms of money. It had therefore specified that the fund should not be used for advance purchases of paper exceeding the probable re- quirements for six months. [4] In paragraph 2(ii) (a), the Working Committee had disagreed with the original proposal that the Director-General should have access to the Working Capital Fund to meet unforeseen expenditure and had restricted the use of the Working Capital Fund for that purpose by adding the first three lines of the paragraph “in response to requests made by the United Nations specifically related to emergencies connected with the maintenance of peace and secur- ну”. [6] As for the proposed advance of $60,000 out of the Working Capital Fund for the International Computation Centre, the Committee, while regard- ing it as a departure from the purposes of the Work- ing Capital Fund, had nevertheless agreed to it as an exceptional measure. [6] Referring to paragraph 2(ii) (a), Mr. TAYLOR (Deputy Director-General) observed that the provi- sion for $300,000 did not cover the Director-General’s request for $200,000 to meet additional price rises in purchasable goods. The budget as framed in- cluded only estimates based on current rates, and therefore, if the Working Committee’s recommenda- tion were adopted, any further price rises would have to be met at the expense of the programme. Baron van der STRATEN-WAILLET (Belgium) [7] Mr. de CLEMENTI (Italy) remarked that the fact of providing $500,000 did not necessarily imply that the whole sum would be used, as no payment could be made without the prior approval of the Executive Board. Consequently, he thought it would be wise to provide for a sum large enough to cover any price rises that might occur up to 1952. [8] Mr. THEDIN (Sweden), Rapporteur, speaking in the name of the Swedish delegation, announced that it very strongly supported the recommendation of the Working Committee, since it considered that the use of money from the Working Capital Fund to cover rising prices was unsound financial pro- cedure. [9] Mr. MOORE (Australia) noted on page 2 of document 6C/ADM/7 (rev). that the Director-General requested that the fund to finance self-liquidating expenditure should be brought up to a total of $400,000. Was that the same figure as that appear- ing in paragraph 2(i) (a) of the Working Committees report? And was it necessary to provide for $400,000 for advance purchases of paper for six months, when it was stated in document 6C/ADM/7 (rev.), page 2, that an increase of $350,000 was necessary for the purchase of a stock of paper for Unesco publications? [10] Mr. HARPER-SMITH that the figure in document envisaged purchasing some 18 months’ of paper. (Comptroller) replied
6C/ADM/7 (rev) supply [11] Mr. MOORE (Australia) thought it followed that the figure of $400,000 in paragraph 2(i) (a) could be considerably reduced. [12] Sir Ben THOMAS (United Kingdom), Chair- man of the Working Committee, stated that the Com- mittee had discussed the point raised by the Aus- tralian delegate at some length, and the member of the Secretariat responsible for purchasing paper had described his efforts to complete contracts in different parts of the world, the different prices quoted, and the difficulty of obtaining stocks. In view of his explanations, the Working Comraittee had decided that $400,000 should be allowed to enable purchases to be made six months ahead. | | | | | ( | | [ | | | | | | | | | $ | | | ( | | J |    EVEال‏ [13] The Report of the Working Committee (docu- ment WS/071.12) was approved. Disposal of Credit Balance of the Provident Fund (document 6C/ADM/20). [14] Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) pointed out that the Commission was called upon to choose one of the three solutions set forth in paragraph 6 of the document under consideration. [15] Mr. KIRPAL (India) moved that the Commis- sion should recommend the adoption of sub-pararaph (i) of paragraph 6, as offering the most equitable solu- tion and one which would not place the Organization in an embarrassing position. Unesco was a trustee and the wishes of the beneficiaries should be re- spected. He moved the liquidation of the Fund. [16] Miss LAISE (United States of America) stated that the United Nations Joint Staff Pension Board, of which she was a member, had regretted the Director-General’s decision to allow his staff the option of buying retroactive membership of the United Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund, or of joining the Pension Fund on 1 January 1951, leaving their Provident Fund balance in the hands of Unesco, to be paid to them upon separation. The fact that only 106 staff members had bought retroactive mem- bership had caused the Organization a loss of money, as it had had to pay a higher actuarial fee. With regard to the alternatives in paragraph 6, the whole point of the Provident Fund was that it should be paid to staff members on separation, thus protecting them against the vicissitudes of life in the first months following their departure from Unesco. The United States delegation was therefore against alterna- tives (i) and (ii). [17] Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) pointed out in reply that the result of the option and of the fact that a large percentage of the staff had not bought retroactive membership, far from being a loss to the Organization, had saved it some $200,000 to $300,000, as it had not had to pay a further seven per cent for the whole length of past service. [18] The CHAIRMAN took a separate vote on each of the three solutions contained in paragraph 6 of document 6C/ADM/20. [19] The result of the vote was as follows: In favour of sub-paragraph (i): 7 votes. In favour of sub-paragraph (ii): 8 votes. In favour of sub-paragraph (iii): 15 votes. [20] Sub-paragraph (i) was therefore eliminated and a further vote was taken on sub-paragraphs (ii) and (iii): In favour of sub-paragraph (ii): 8 votes. In favour of sub-paragraph (iii): 17 votes. COMMISSION VII-9 [21] The third solution, set out in sub-paragraph (iii), was thus adopted. Discussion of the Report of the Working Com- mittee on Salaries and Allowances (document
6C/ADM/21). [22] Mr. SEYDOUX (France) had the impression that the vote at the previous meeting had left a feel- ing of confusion in the minds of certain delegations, which feared that the decision taken might not be confirmed in the Plenary Conference. Although the French delegation considered that the vote had been in order, it had noted with anxiety that the Com- mission had been divided, and that the motion had been carried by a very small majority. Mr. Seydoux had already emphasized that decisions affecting the staff should be taken by a very large majority. In discussing the complex problem which the Com- mission had to solve, both sides had put forward sound arguments; it seemed, therefore, that the only possible solution would be a compromise acceptable to the large majority of delegations. The French delegation was therefore prepared to re-open the discussion on the draft resolution which it had presented at the previous meeting. That resolution had the twofold advantage of taking account of the decision of the Florence Conference and of being nearer to the Director-General's proposal than the suggestion of the Working Committee. [23] Mr. Seydoux emphasized that the Adminis- trative Commission and the General Conference had to devote particular attention to the administrative status and material situation of staff in the lower grades; without those hard-working and experienced members of the Secretariat, loyal to the heads of their services and devoted to their duty, Unesco would never have been able to achieve the fine results to which all delegations had paid tribute. However, those staff members, who were defending their ac- quired rights at a time when the cost of living was constantly rising and conditions were becoming increasingly difficult, should be made to understand that it was in their own interests for the system adopted to be not only the most favourable, but also the most stable one; it could not be stable unless the General Conference adopted it practically unani- mously. [24] Mr. Seydoux realized that the Director-General was in a situation for which he was not responsible and which was the result of decisions taken by several sessions of the General Conference. To a certain extent, therefore, delegates at the current session should remain faithful to the attitude adopted by their predecessors. But to those delegations who had approved the Director-General’s report, Mr. Seydoux would point out that the decisions of the Florence Conference had to be respected if Unesco were not to deviate from the course followed by other organi-    VII-9 zations. Mr. Seydoux asked those who had voted against the Director-General’s report to be as con- ciliatory and understanding as possible and to bear in mind, in considering the French proposal, which recommended only a slight reduction, that the staff concerned had grown accustomed to a certain way of living, calculating their income and expenditure on that basis, and that it would be unfair to oblige them suddenly to change their style of living, especially at a time when prices were still rising. [25] It was therefore out of friendship for thestaff, respect for the decisions taken at Florence and con- cern for the welfare of the Organization as a whole that the French delegation requested the reopening of the debate. [26] The CHAIRMAN observed that there was no specific provision in the Conference Manual for the reopening of a debate after a vote had been taken. teferring to Rule 76 of the Rules of Procedure, con- cerning the closing of a debate, he proposed that a similar procedure should be adopted in the case of the French motion to re-open the debate. [27] Mr. PANGILINAN (Philippines) recalled that the Chairman had put a clear question to the Com- mission at its previous meeting: namely, whether or not it approved the Director-General’s proposals in document 6C/ADM/10 (I). By 16 votes for,
12 against, and 7 abstentions, the Commission had approved the Director-General’s proposals. All that had been wrong with the procedure was that the motion had been put to the vote without being seconded; but the proposal just put forward by the French delegation had not yet been seconded either. Mr. Pangilinan moved that the Commission should confirm its earlier decision and approve the Director- General’s proposals. [28] The French proposal was seconded by several delegations. [29] Mr. de CLEMENTI (Italy) entirely agreed with the French delegation. He had abstained from voting on the Director-General’s report for the very reasons given by Mr. Seydoux. He agreed that decisions on staff matters should provide some guarantee of sta- bility, and that was perhaps not true of the decision taken at the previous meeting. [30] The CHAIRMAN took a vote on the motion to re-open the debate. [81] Adopted by 26 votes to 7. [32] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out that the remarks of the French and Italian delegations had shown that their only reason for wishing to re-open the debate was to reach a decision guaranteeing greater stability, yet one which would take acquired ADMINISTRATI VE COMMISSION rights into consideration. He hoped that when the Commission discussed the problem for the second time—an exceptional procedure not usually adopted in Unesco's meetings—it would not forget the argu- ments which had been put forward and supported by both delegations. [33] Mr. SEYDOUX (France) announced that his resolution was about to be distributed (document WS/071.25). [34] The CHAIRMAN decided to adjourn the meet- ing for a few minutes in order that delegates might have time to read the document. [35] When the meeting reassembled, the CHAIR MAN asked the Commission to vote first on the prin- ciples appearing on page 1 of document WS/071.25. If they were rejected, the vote taken at the previous meeting would thereby be confirmed. If they were approved, the draft resolution appearing on the second page of the document would be submitted for discussion. [36] Mr. ILLUECA (Panama) remarked that no Spanish version of the French proposal had been dis- tributed and he therefore asked for an adjournment of the debate on that proposal. With regard to the prin- ciple of re-opening the debate on local salaries for the purpose of studying the compromise resolution proposed by the French delegation, he said that it would establish a precedent which might hamperthe work of the Conference. [37] Mr. MASON (New Zealand) pointed out that it was in order for any meeting to decide to re-open the discussion on any item. He drew attention to the fact that a motion to re-open the discussion had been adopted. [38] With regard to the Director-General's remark that he hoped the debate would be conducted in the spirit of the observations made by the two delegates who had asked for the re-opening, Mr. Mason could not commit himself; once a debate was re-opened, it was re-opened completely and he reserved the right to restate his position frankly. [39] Mr. ILLUECA (Panama) asked to speak on a point of order, reminding the Chairman that, in accordance with the rules of Procedure, when a member asked for the closure of a debate, permission to speak against the closure could be accorded to not more than two speakers. (Rule 76 of the Rules of Procedure.) [40] Recalling that he had asked for the ad- journment of the debate on the French resolution, Mr. Illueca said that, even if the Spanish translation were distributed forthwith, the debate should be adjourned so that the delegates might have sufficient time to study it. — . m r e e t a E [ E T E E E E E E O S E E E . E E E E E E , E E A       — . — — ا ل ح ‎ I A m m — — . . n . . e e m - —
485 ADM NAA TIENE [41] Mr. BRULL (Cuba) seconded the Panamanian delegate's proposal to adjourn the debate until the delegates had received the Spanish text of the French resolution, but he asked Mr. Illueca to agree to the opening of the debate on the French resolution as soon as the Spanish translation had been distributed. He proposed that, in the meantime, the Commission should discuss another item of the agenda. [42] Mr. SEYDOUX (France) appealed to his col- leagues for understanding, in order that a question of procedure might not delay a debate of such im- portance to the staff, as only a decision taken by a large majority could ensure for them the minimum stability required. [43] Mr. Seydoux was anxious that his proposal should not be referred to the Working Committee and volunteered to reply to any questions put to him during the debate, which should not be conducted hurriedly but, if necessary, should be continued at the next day's meeting. [44] Mr. ILLUECA (Panama) thanked the Chair- man for the impartial manner in which he was con- ducting the debate and said that, as the Spanish translation of the French resolution had been dis- tributed and as he did not wish to appear uncom- promising to the other delegates, he withdrew his proposal for the adjournment of the debate and agreed to the immediate discussion of the French delega- tion's proposal. [45] The CHAIRMAN thanked the delegate of Pana- ma and requested the Commission to consider the French proposal. [46] Mr. SEYDOUX (France) drew attention to a few corrections to be made in the text distributed: in paragraph 2 of the first part and in paragraph 3 of the second part, “three steps” should be amended to read “four steps”. In paragraph 3 of the first part and paragraph 4 of the second part, the words “on
1 July 1951” should be added after the words: “cost of living adjustments payable”. [47] Mr. PANGILINAN (Philippines) stated that, if the United Nations formula mentioned in paragraph 2 of the French proposal was the formula presented by the Syrian delegation and approved by the Fifth Committee and the General Assembly of the United Nations, as stated in paragraphs 32, 33 and 34 of document 6C/ADM/10 (I), he would move the dele- tion of paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 from the French proposal. [48] Mr. TREJOS DITTEL (Costa Rica) said that, in his opinion, the proposal before the Commission was not one for the re-opening of a debate, but for the revocation of a decision already taken. COMMISSION VIT-9 [49] Mr. Trejos Dittel considered that the draft resolution presented by the French delegation implied a complete modification of Unesco’s existing system of salaries and would not be fair to members of the Secretariat. [50] Mr. Trejos Dittel pointed out that, as the French resolution implied the revocation of the deci- sion approving the Director-General’s report on the matter, it would be logical for the Commission to decide first whether it wished to rescind that decision. [61] The CHAIRMAN observed that the re-opening of the debate might result in the rescindment of the vote taken at the previous meeting, but, for the time being, the Commission had only decided, by a majority, to re-open the debate, the result of which would not be known until a vote had been taken on the draft proposal presented by the French delegation. [52] Mr. SPIRIDAKIS (Greece) said that he had voted for the Director-General's report in the belief that it represented the most favourable solution for the staff. He had, however, been impressed by the French delegation’s arguments regarding the instab- ility of a decision taken by a very narrow majority, and the Greek delegation would support the French resolution in the hope that it would be approved by a large majority, thus guaranteeing for the staff the necessary security. [63] Mr. MASON (New Zealand) reminded the dele- gate of Costa Rica that the motion upon which the Commission had voted at its previous meeting had been carried by a very narrow majority, with seven abstentions. The French proposal was very valuable, because it represented a compromise which would enable those who had abstained to take a decision one way or another. [54] Mr. THOMPSON (United Kingdom) expressed his delegation’s gratitude to the French delegation for having recalled all members of the Commission to a sense of their responsibilities in the matter under discussion. His delegation had associated itself with an alternative solution to the Director-General’s pro- posals and had tried, with three other delegations, to reach a compromise between the measures pro- posed by the Director-General and those approved in Florence. Unfortunately, when the proposal had come before the Commission, the latter had been divided into two almost equal camps; the United Kingdom considered that such a division constituted a sufficient reason to forsake the original compromise and support that proposed by the French delegation, in the hope that greater unanimity would be secured in the Commission. [65] Mr. JOCHAMOWITZ (Peru) said that, as the discussion was becoming somewhat confused, it   VII-9 АРМИТ would be advisable to listen to the authoritative voice of the Director-General who, in the speaker’s opinion, was best qualified to express a truly decisive opinion on the question under discussion. [66] Mr. THEDIN (Sweden), Rapporteur, observed that the last time that the question had been dis- cussed, he had intervened on behalf of his delegation in order to propose a solution which he had hoped might form the basis of a compromise, because in so important a matter it was highly desirable to find a solution acceptable to the great majority of delega- tions. He was therefore glad to support the French delegation’s proposal. [57] Mr. ILLUECA (Panama) pointed out that the turn taken by the discussion of the French delega- tion’s proposal showed that there would. be a large majority in favour of a certain point of view. That majority, in his opinion, should be in favour of the report presented by the Director-General and against the reduction of the salaries of Unesco’s staff. In sup- port of his argument, Mr, Illueca said that the staff of the Organization should be recruited on a fair geographical basis, but that that would not be pos- sible if the salaries offered were inadequate; in the latter case, Unesco would be administered mainly by Frenchofficials, to whom he paid due tribute, but he added that it should not be forgotten that Unesco was essentially an international organization. Moreover, every General Conference brought new responsibilities and additional work, so that salaries should be in- creased rather than reduced. As long as Govern- ments were unable to solve the problem of the high cost of living, no organization should reduce the salaries of its employees; otherwise, there might be grave social repercussions. [58] Mr. Illueca expressed the hope that the good- will of those countries which made the largest financial contributions to Unesco would not diminish, and he asked the Commission to vote in favour of the Director-General’s report. [69] Miss LAISE (United States of America) stated that her delegation supported the French compromise in principle, but she thought that before the ques- tion was finally settled, the Working Committee should work out the effects of the application of the principles proposed by the French delegation on staff salaries, with the help of figures supplied by the Secretariat. [60] As so many of the staff were listening to the debate, Miss Laise wished to explain to them that her delegation’s attitude showed no lack of faith in them, nor any desire to diminish their financial situation. She appealed to the staff to realize the problems of governments and of tax-payers in the different countries who had to face rising taxation. [61] Mr. KIRPAL (India) supported the French ATV E COMMISSION delegation's draft resolution, in the hope that it would receive the unanimous approval of the Com- mission and the General Conference. He seconded the United States proposal that the Working Com- mittee should be asked to study the effects of the proposal on salaries, so that the staff would know where they stood. [62] Mr. MASON (New Zealand) drewattention to the small difference in his country between the salaries earned by various grades of staff, from the highest to the lowest; in no other country was there such equality of income. He therefore assured his fellow delegates and members of the staff that his delegation was not trying to: victimize the lower grades. But it was a question of rectifying the initial error of paying locally recruited staff the salaries which they had earned before the Florence Conference. Comparing those salaries with those paid to similar grades by other organizations in Paris, he pointed out that a Grade 6 staff member at Unesco earned 914,000 francs per annum, whereas a cor- responding staff member earned 570,000 francs at OEEC, 552,000 at Unicef, 497,000 francs at the United States Embassy and 436,000 francs at TWA. There could therefore be no doubt, and the Director-General himself had admitted it, that Unesco salaries were too high; the Florence decision had therefore been just. [63] As he had said at the previous meeting, he sympathized with the Director-General’s misgivings regarding a decline in morale and discontent in the Secretariat, but he believed that the Director- General, who was an experienced administrator, would be able to overcome those difficulties. [64] Mr. Mason agreed with the United States dele- gate that the opinion of taxpayers, who provided money for international organizations, should be taken into consideration. If the initial error of paying excessive salaries was perpetuated, it would have the worst possible effect on the opinion of taxpayers in NewZealand. Unesco depended on the supportof its Member States and, therefore, ultimately on the tax- payers of each country. [65] In conclusion, Mr. Mason congratulated the French delegate on his compromise proposal and supported it in principle. He seconded the United States proposal that, once approved, the resolution should be referred to the Working Committee in order that the latter might ascertain the exact effects on salaries. [66] Mr. PRUDENCIO (Bolivia) said that he was not opposed on principle to the re-opening of the debate on local salaries, as he fully appreciated the attitude of the large countries which made con- siderable financial contributions to Unesco. More: over, the problem should not be considered in a sentimental spirit, as the Commission had to discuss administrative questions in which sentiment had no    АТОМ ТОО ОКАТО ОК place. The Commission had to consider how Unesco’s funds could be best utilized so as to pro- mote the ever greater efficiency of the Organization. He pointed out that good economy did not necessarily mean reductions, but the most effective use of avail- able resources, and he wondered whether, in that respect, it would be advisable to reduce the salaries of Unesco’s staff. [67] Moreover, it was not certain that the Com- mission had at its disposal the data necessary for taking a proper decision, for it would need to know the indices of the cost of living in France. None of the previous speakers had presented figures in support of his arguments. Mr. Prudencio said that Unesco's staff should be recruited from among those who were best fitted from the moral as well as from the technical points of view, and that the Director- General alone was able to determine how his colleagues should be remunerated. He added that, as the Secretariat was responsible for the execution of the programme, it was only fair that it should be able to recruit the persons best qualified to carry out that task. [68] Mr. Prudencio agreed with the Peruvian dele- gate’s proposal that the Director-General should give his authoritative opinion on the matter under discussion. In conclusion, he said that he would give his “humble but informed” vote in favour of the Director-General’s recommendations. [69] Mr. MANACH (Cuba) asked Mr. Seydoux to explain the scope of the French delegation’s resolu- tion, as some delegates had difficulty in understand- ing the technicalities of the five points contained in it. [70] Mr. HOCKIN (Canada) stated emphatically that the position of the Canadian Government and the Canadian delegation was based upon a matter of principle. After much reflection, his delegation had come to the conclusion that it was not right for the staff of an international organization to be paid salaries which removed them too far from the level of the salaries in the milieu in which they were living. It was vital for an organization working on the matters with which Unesco dealt to keep in touch with the ordinary person. That was particular- ly important for international staff, but it was im- portant for locally recruited staff as well. [71] The Canadian delegation was anxious to keep faith with the staff and to ensure that they should have no grounds for thinking that Unesco, after promising them certain salaries, had decided to reduce them. He would therefore remind them that the marked divergence between Unesco salaries and the best prevailing local rates had arisen, not through any decision of the Conference, but as a result of the fluctuation of exchange rates. The matter had been reviewed at that time and, as salaries and allowances were then under review in the United Nations, no VII-9COMMISSION action had been taken, but the staff had been warned that the situation was unusual and that future ses- sions of the Conference might take steps to rectify it. The Florence session had done that and had informed the staff that their salaries would have to suffer some reduction, but, in order to avoid hardship, transitional measures had been adopted. The Canadian Government therefore felt that the Confer- ence had kept faith with the staff and had been right in deciding upon a reduction. The Canadian dele- gation was grateful to the French delegation for its proposal, and particularly to Mr. Seydoux for his constant efforts to achieve agreement in the Com- mission on such a difficult matter. [72] Mr. Hockin appealed to delegates, in voting, to keep clearly in their minds the fact that the staff should not be allowed to feel that, in their efforts to reach unanimity, delegates were prepared to sacrifice principle. [78] When the vote was taken on the French pro- posal, Mr. Hockin would be obliged to abstain, as his Government felt very strongly on the question of principle, and he knewit would not be prepared to go as far as the French delegation had proposed in the direction of compromise. But that did not prevent him from hoping that the Commission would achieve a large measure of unanimity in its decision. [74] Mr. KJEMS (Denmark) seconded the French delegation’s proposal. [75] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL hoped that, having re-opened the debate, the Commission would manage to reach an agreement of principle. For his part, he could only defend his own proposal once again, reminding delegations of their responsibilities. He explained that, in freezing staff salaries at the level already reached—which would represent a reduction of $99,000 on the total salaries which they would have received in accordance with the existing scale— he had merely followed the system adopted by the United Nations, which amounted, in fact, to fixing a level of remuneration which did not represent any reduction on former salaries. He had done so, not only because he wished to maintain the cordial rela- tions between the staff and himself, but also because he did not wish the staff’s confidence in the General Conference and the countries represented at it to be shaken. The purpose of the proposal was also to avoid widening the gap still further between the staff in the lower grades and international civil servants. [76] The Director-General had not opposed the re- opening of the debate, because he did not wish certain delegations to feel that the vote at the previous meeting had been the result of his intense desire— which he felt was worthy and justified—to defend his staff. He thought that a further debate was neces- sary because a great many delegations had. abstained from voting. He urged the Commission to vote one    VII-9 ADMINISTR way or the other, without abstentions, and begged delegates to bear in mind that the decision they were about to take might have considerable influence on good servants of Unesco and of its Member States; and yet no large saving was involved, for the French delegation proposed a smaller reduction than that recommended by the Working Committee. [77] Mr. SEYDOUX (France) paid tribute to the Director-General’s desire to defend his staff. He explained that the French delegation had deemed it necessary to re-open the debate because it considered it essential to respect a principle laid down by the Florence Conference; in the draft resolution he had presented, an attempt was made to impose only a small sacrifice on the staff, but one which the French delegation hoped would ensure for the staff the sup- port of the General Conference. The Unesco staff should consider itself at the service of the entire world and should accept principles approved by the majority of States. [78] Replying to the delegate of Cuba, Mr. Seydoux emphasized that the purpose of his proposal was to incorporate, as far as possible, the principles laid down in the Working Committee’s resolution, while trying to ensure that the results of their application would not differ too greatly from the results at which the Director-General was aiming. The French pro- posal included the creation of additional steps to enable the staff to obtain promotion or, in some cases, reclassification; it authorized a maximum reduction of five per cent, whereas the Florence Conference had allowed for a reduction of 25 per cent to 30 per cent, and the Working Committee had advocated a reduction of 12 per cent. [79] Mr. Seydoux disagreed with the suggestion of the delegate of the United States of America, con- sidering that his proposal should be studied by the Commission itself, in order that the staff might not feel that a decision of such importance had been taken by a few delegations only. He was therefore strongly opposed to referring the proposal to the Working Committee. [80] The CHAIRMAN called for a decision on the first part of the French proposal, i.e. on the prin- عا171 G'OMM 1°S SION ciples only. If those were approved, the resolution contained in the second part of the document would be discussed. If they were rejected, the Commission’s previous decision would be confirmed and the Director-General’s report would be considered as approved. [81] At the proposal of Mr. TREJOS DITTEL (Costa Rica), seconded by Mr. ILLUECA (Panama), it was agreed to take a vote by roll-call. [82] The result was as follows: Voted in favour: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Burma, China, Cuba, Denmark, Egypt, France, Greece, India, Israel, Italy, Japan, Lebanon, Mexico, New Zealand, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, Syria, Union of South Africa, United Kingdom, United States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela. Voted against: Bolivia, Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecua- dor, Panama, Peru, Philippines. Abstained: Canada, Luxembourg. Absent: Afghanistan, Argentina, Cambodia, Ceylon, Czechoslovakia, Dominican Republic, Guatemala, Haiti, Hashemite Jordan, Honduras, Hungary, In- donesia, Iran, Iraq, Korea, Liberia, Monaco, Nether- lands, Pakistan, Poland, Salvador, Saudi Arabia, Thailand, Turkey, Yugoslavia. [83] The principles in the first part of the French proposal were adopted by 27 votes to 7, with
2 abstentions. [84] At the request of Mr. SEYDOUX (France), the CHAIRMAN proposed that the Commission should next consider the draft resolution. [85] Mr. MASON (New Zealand) moved the ad- journment of the Commission until the following morning. [86] The motion was seconded. [87] Adopted. The meeting rose at 6.45 p.m.