337 PROGRAMME COMMISSION ELEVENTH MEETING Monday, 2 July 1951, at 8.30 p.m. Chairman: Mr. JEAN PIAGET (Switzerland) Discussion of the Draft Programme for 1952 (continuation) [document 6C/5 (I) |. Cultural Activities (continuation). Item 4.62. [1] The CHAIRMAN reminded the meeting that, after the rejection (by 11 votes to 10) of item 4.52, the Commission had struck out item 4.53. Some delegates had then expressed the wish to be allowed to reconsider their vote on item 4.52. The Legal Service had been consulted, and had replied that the Commission was entitled to re-open a discussion when some new factor had arisen. In the case in question there was a new factor—the British sug- gestion. The Chairman therefore suggested that there should be a further discussion of item 4.52. (Man's right freely to participate in the cultural life of the community, to enjoy the arts and to share in scientific advancement and its benefits.) [2] The total costs for the item amounted to $7,000. [3] Mr. PEISSEL (United Nations) was glad the discussion was being re-opened, as the project was of great interest to the United States. [4] Mr. BRANDT (Switzerland) was also in favour of the further discussion of a resolution, the rejec- tion of which would have tended to give the Inter- national Confederation of Free Trade Unions the impression that Unesco was reluctant to co-operate with it. [6] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) added that the Executive Board had acknow- ledged the prime importance of activities connected with Human Rights. not apply to item 4.52, to which only budgetary ob- jections had been made. [6] Item 4.52 was adopted. [7] The sum of $7,000 allocated for the item was approved. New draft resolution 4.54. [8] The Norwegian delegation had submitted, in Its criticism of item 4.53 did : the form of an amendment, the following new draft resolution 4.54 (document 6C/DR/37): To invite through the Permanent International Com- mittee of Linguists a certain number of experts to write descriptions of the structure of certain languages spoken in restricted areas of Africa, Oceania, India and America, to serve as a basis for the study of cultural differences and modes of thinking and with a view to fulfilling the aims of Unesco in the elimination of prejudices against under-developed civilizations as well as in the promotion of Human Rights. (Contract with the Permanent International Com- mittee of Linguists: $3,000.) [9] The draft resolution was seconded by the French delegation. [10] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) reported that the Executive Board recom- mended the adoption of that resolution, while pointing out that certain of the activities suggested therein might be covered by other resolutions in the same chapter. [11] Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cul- tural Activities) pointed out that the resolution referred to the continuation of activities undertaken during the year, by means of a series of small contracts. [12] Draft resolution 4.54 was adopted. [13] At the request of the DIRECTOR-GENERAL, Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) said he would be willing for some of the activities mentioned in the resolution to be incorporated in the work plan. [14] The sum of $3,000 allocated for the resolution was approved. Draft resolution concerning the importance of the arts in the programme of Unesco. [15] The Commission then adopted a motion pro- posed by the United States delegation concerning the importance of the arts in Unesco’s programme (document 6C/DR/22).     A   IV-11 PROGRAMME Discussion of the United Kingdom's proposals for the reformulation and rearrangement of the Cultural Activities Programme (document 6C/DR/3). [16] The CHAIRMAN invited the Commission to consider the two questions of form raised by the suggestion from the United Kingdom National Com- mission which had been submitted to the Pro- gramme Commission at the beginning of the dis- cussion of the Cultural Activities chapter. The first point to be decided was whether publications should be grouped together, or divided into categories cor- responding to the various activities of the Depart- ment; and the second point was whether the reso- lutions should retain their comprehensive character, covering a considerable number of different activi- ties, or should be presented in a more detailed and analytical form. [17] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL was in favour of the method of presentation approved by the Ex- ecutive Board. In the first place, the principle of concentration should be perceptible even in the way the programme was made out. In the second place, it was difficult for an annual programme to provide a list of strictly defined projects with a separate financial estimate for each one. The Director- General therefore hoped that, in the interest of continuity in Unesco’s work, the existing method of presentation would be maintained during the transitional period, since it could hardly be guaran- teed that, when the time came to approve a two-year programme, the resolutions could be presented in the old form, together with their respective costs. [18] Mr. LAMB (Canada) thought that the dif- ficulties mentioned by the United Kingdom dele- gation might be solved by printing the programme and budget in a single document. Although the groups should be retained, within which the Director-General would have discretion to spend his money according to circumstances which could not be foreseen, the programme might be broken down into more detail. [19] Mrs. POTTER RUSSELL (United States) stated that her delegation very strongly supported the Canadian delegate’s proposal. There was a great difference between the work plans and the budgetary justifications, and their unification in a single document was one of the main requests which the United States delegation had to make to the current session of the Conference. [20] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that, as it had been decided to hold the next session of the General Conference in November, he thought he could under- take to present the programme and the budget in a single document. COMMISSION 338 [21] The CHAIRMAN called for a vote on the United Kingdom suggestion that the publications should be classified according to the activities to which they related. The proposal was rejected by
16 votes to 2, with 7 abstentions. [22] The CHAIRMAN then called for a vote on the second part of the United Kingdom proposal, which suggested that the resolutions should be presented in a more analytical and detailed form. It was rejected by 16 votes to 3, with 6 abstentions. Other questions. [23] Mr. UNGARETTI (Italy) said his delegation was not entirely satisfied with the method of setting forth the activities connected with films, which were handled entirely by the Department of Mass Com- munication. It recommended that the Department of Cultural Activities and, in particular, the Arts and Letters Section, should be entrusted with an increasingly active share in cultural film work, though without interfering in documentary film work, which pertained to the Department of Mass Communication. [24] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL, who could not undertake any fresh activities unless the necessary sums were voted by the Conference, promised to take that recommendation into account, so far as funds would permit, in the 1953-1954 programme. [25] Mr. CAIN (France) congratulated the United States delegation on its suggestion that the General Conference should place greater emphasis on the arts in the programme of Unesco. That resolution would without doubt be given practical expression in the next programme. The French delegation, for its part, had submitted a proposal inviting Unesco to include in its next programme resolutions in- tended to safeguard the cultural heritage of mankind; it had also submitted a suggestion regarding the translation of works of importance to human culture as a whole. It recommended, in general, that the
1953 programme should make increased provision for cultural activities. [26] Mr. MOORE (Australia) said that, owing to a technical breakdown, he had not heard whether the United Kingdom proposal had been adopted or re- jected, but he wished to say that he agreed with the remarks made by the delegates of the United States of America and Canada, and thought that there should be some sort of regrouping of the programme items in future years. [27] Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) strongly supported the French delegation’s suggestion. He felt that | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
339 PROGRAMME culture should no longer be regarded and treated as a poor relation by Unesco. Exchange of Persons. Item 6.11. (Centre for the collection and exchange of information concerning programmes for the inter- national exchange of persons and the obstacles con- fronting such exchange.) [28] Mr. CHAVES (Ecuador) suggested the addi- tion of a third paragraph at the end of item 5.11 as given in the Draft Programme, to run as follows: “ (III) to consider means for establishing an ‘Inter- national Index of Exchange of Persons’.” [29] Mr. Cháves said the purpose of such an Index would be to bring to Member States’ attention the number of international fellowships actually awarded, in comparison with the minimum number desirable. It would be based on the proportion existing between the number of international fellow- ships granted by each country and that country’s contribution to Unesco, the sum provided in its budget for national education, or some other agreed criterion. [30] Mr. Cháves added that the fellowships granted by the various countries were in direct relation to the sums they allocated for education and, in the case of a nation with a small budget, the grant of fellowships was necessarily limited, so that its nationals were at a disadvantage. The desirability of preparing such an Index was, Mr. Cháves thought, evident, since the adoption of the amendment might provide a basis for the granting of fellow- ships, and, on the other hand, would not involve excessive expenditure. [31] Mr. KADHIM (Deputy Head, Exchange of Persons Service) stated that the Secretariat had not sufficient staff to carry out the changed work plan suggested by the delegate of Ecuador. Analyses were given little by little in Study Abroad, but it would not be possible to make a complete analysis in 1952. He suggested that Unesco’s Statistical Service might be consulted on the subject. [32] Mr. CHAVES (Ecuador) again urged the adoption of his amendment, which would un- doubtedly induce other countries to increase the number of fellowships that they were ordinarily inclined to provide. [33] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said he would do his best to find a place in the next programme for activities which, while undoubtedly valuable, would at the moment lead to an increase in expenditure. [34] Item 5.11 was adopted. COMM1SSION TV-11 Items 5.12 to 6.22. [35] Items 5.12, 5.13, 5.21 (no budgetary im- plications) and 5.22 (no budgetary implications) were adopted. Item 6.28 [36] Item 5.23 would authorize the Director- General to promote in co-operation with the Member States concerned and the appropriate international organizations, international educational exchange, particularly of young persons and workers. [37] The United States delegation had submitted, in the form of an amendment (document 6C/DR/
26), a suggestion relating to the distribution of the sums allocated for such travel grants. [38] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) hoped that the Commission would consider the suggestion in relation to the necessary cuts in the budget. [39] Mr. KADHIM (Deputy Head, Exchange of Persons Service) explained that the travel grants for teachers were not to enable them to attend seminars, but to teach abroad for one year. Such experience abroad was of immense value to the teachers them- selves to students and to adult education in gener- al. As, however, it was necessary to make some economy, the Secretariat would consider a cut of $10,000 on the item. The provision of travel grants for workers was a very useful activity whereby Unesco hoped to stimulate the action of international organizations concerned with workers’ education, but, if necessary, the Exchange of Persons Service would agree to a cut of $10,000. As far as ex- changes of young people were concerned, the Secre- tariat feared that the suggested cut of $15,000 would imperil the project. The Working Party on youth problems had recommended that the re- duction should be limited to a minimum, and the Secretariat therefore suggested a reduction of $6,000. The total reduction on item 5.23 would therefore be $26,000, but the Secretariat was anxious that the various activities should be maintained. [40] Mr. FERNBACH (United States of America), referring to his delegation’s proposal contained in document 6C/DR/26, stressed the fact that his dele- gation was extremely enthusiastic about the work accomplished by the Exchange of Persons Service in the last year, and therefore much regretted having to propose cuts. Those cuts had, however, been supported by the Budget Committee, and were pro- posed in the hope that the money thus saved would be used for other priority projects in Unesco’s pro- gramme, such as fundamental education.   —
17-1 PROGRAMME [41] With regard to exchanges of teachers, the United States delegation considered that exchanges of young people and workers were the most im- portant part of resolution 5.23, teachers being covered by other programme resolutions and having opportunities for exchanges under many private arrangements. He drew attention to the fact that $30,000 were allowed for 30 exchanges, which meant that each exchange was to cost $1,000, whereas travel grants for young people were esti- mated at only $500 each and those for workers at $100 each. The travel grants for teachers therefore seemed expensive, and the United States delegation proposed that they should all be eliminated for the time being. The 37.5 per cent cut for travel grants for young people was proposed because of the re- stricted budget and because there were travel services for young people elsewhere in the pro- gramme; for example, Unesco was proposing to contribute to the travelling expenses of young people attending the Conference in South East Asia. More- over, experience showed that young people partici- pated to a large extent in travel grant programmes for workers. [42] While sharing the Secretariat’s reluctance to see any reduction in workers’ travel grants, the United States delegation proposed a cut of 20 per cent on the item for the time being. [43] Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) recalled the fact that the Commission had already been obliged to make a cut of 25 per cent in the sums allocated to youth activities. He regretted the suggestion that those activities should be still further reduced, as it seemed to him to be incompatible with the prin- ciples adopted by the Commission, on the basis of a suggestion made by the United States of America. [44] Mrs. PECSON (Philippines) said that, in view of the collaboration which existed between her country and the United States in 4he field of ex- change of persons, her delegation would have liked to support the United States delegate’s remarks; it felt unable to do so, however, because, in spite of the facilities mentioned by the United States dele- gation, insufficient opportunities for exchanges of teachers existed in the Philippines, and such ex- changes were considered a very effective means of accelerating the achievement of Unesco’s aims. The same was true of exchanges of workers, and Mrs. Pecson therefore pleaded for a smaller reduction on that item. The Philippine delegation was also very reluctant to see any reduction in the programme of exchanges of young people, and therefore associ- ated itself with the views expressed by the Director- General. [45] Mr. FRANCOIS (France) said his delegation had always given its support to measures intended to further the free circulation of ideas and persons. COMMISSION 340 It would therefore regard with regret any further drastic cuts in the fellowships awarded to young people, who were more and more attracted towards foreign travel, so valuable to understanding between nations. Youth activities had already suffered heavy reductions in the Education chapter. The Commis- sion could not go on in that direction. On the con- trary, it should seek every means of extending such fellowships to artists and writers, who had a greater need than any other intellectual workers to establish contact with foreign countries. [46] Mr. MOORE (Australia) observed that the Australian Government’s view had always been that, in the matter of the exchange of persons, Unesco should stimulate Member States rather than take action itself. As Australia had given considerable help in that respect, his delegation was inclined to suggest a reduction, particularly as it was necessary to cut expenditure in order to keep within the budget ceiling. The Australian delegation therefore sup- ported the United States’ proposal in general, but could not agree to cutting out exchanges of teachers entirely; it would be in favour of a more even dis- tribution of cuts over the three types of exchanges. [47] Mr. RACKHAM (United Kingdom) strongly supported the United States delegation in approving the work accomplished by the Exchange of Persons Service. His delegation felt obliged, however, to press for a reduction, and not solely on grounds of economy; it felt that the various difficulties could more easily be overcome if the project were not started on too large a scale, and that applied particu- larly to exchanges of workers. Mr. Rackham agreed with the Australian delegate’s remarks regarding ex- changes of teachers, and proposed a 50 per cent cut n all three groups of exchanges. [48] Mr. BERNAL JIMENEZ (Colombia) said that, while on various occasions he had supported pro- posed reductions, in the conviction that the services concerned were not essential to Unesco, in the case at issue he wished to make it clear that, in his opinion, reductions in the budget appropriation for the chapter would prejudice the aims of the Ex- change of Persons Service. [49] Co-operation among, and exchanges of, pro- fessors, teachers and workers were very useful. Thanks to such co-operation, and to the direct con- tacts which it made possible, a better understanding between nations would be established, and the cul- tural background of the persons concerned would be enriched with practical experience. For those reasons he was opposed to the suggested cuts. [50] Mr. SHARIF (Pakistan) supported the French delegate’s remarks, as he did not feel that Unesco was doing enough to bring the youth of the world together. People were beginning to say that Unesco      e s — — —  ِ ل p r e , E S T T R A N ‏ يو ns
341 PROGRAMME was becoming an association of older people, and he therefore opposed any cut in the Organization's programme for youth. [61] Mr. FERNBACH (United States of America) agreed that it was very painful to have to propose a cut in the programme for youth, but pointed out that young people formed the overwhelming majority of the world’s workers. The United States delegation associated itself with the good will that had been expressed towards teachers and was pre- pared to agree to a cut of only $15,000 on the ex- change of teachers programme, provided that such exchanges were limited as far as possible to teachers engaged in work connected with the youth pro- gramme, such as the education of workers. [52] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said he would abide by the last proposal of the United States dele- gate; he would even like to go so far as to suggest a reduction of more than nine per cent, to be made up thus: on fellowships for teachers, $10,000
(20 instead of 30); on fellowships for workers, $20,000 (300 instead of 500), and on fellowships for young peoples, $6,000. That would amount to a total cut of $36,000. [63] It would, of course, be a final reduction. [54] Mr. FERNBACH (United States of America) pointed out that the Director-General’s proposal entailed a cut of 18 per cent on youth, 33; per cent on teachers, and 40 per cent on workers. His delegation was strongly opposed to such a large cut on workers’ exchanges and asked that a separate vote should be taken on each of the three figures. [55] The procedure suggested by the United States delegation was adopted. [56] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said in reply that, as the number of fellowships awarded to workers was 500, it would, as the Executive Board had realized, be difficult to arrive at a fair division. [57] Mr. FERNBACH (United States of America) did not see why workers, who could travel reason- ably in groups, should suffer such a drastic reduc- tion because of administrative problems encountered by the Secretariat. The United States delegation therefore proposed the following reductions: (1) a reduction from $30,000 to $15,000 on exchanges of teachers; (2) a reduction from $50,000 to $40,000 on exchanges of workers; (3) a reduction from $40,000 to $ 25,000 on exchanges of young people. [68] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that he was prepared to accept the first two reductions proposed by the United States delegation, but not the third. He proposed that exchanges of youth should be cut by $6,000 less than the amount proposed by the COM MES SON IV-11 United States delegation, i.e. that the item should be reduced from $40,000 to $31,000. [59] Mr. FERNBACH (United States of America) was pleased to announce that his delegation accepted the Director-General’s proposal. [60] The Commission approved a total cut of $34,000 on item 5.23. [61] Item 5.23 was adopted. Item 5.24. (“To organize, on a limited scale and by way of experiment, visits by parties of distinguished professors to universities who request their services and are ready to bear part of the expense. They will teach in these universities for a year in order to stimulate instruction and research in their sub- jects.”) [62] The Italian delegation suggested as an amend- ment [document 6C/DR/75], that the following addition should be made to the first sentence: “To organize, on a limited scale and by way of ex- periment, in co-operation with the International Association of University Professors and Lec- mens: [63] Furthermore, the United States delegation had suggested the following modifications in the work plan [document 6C/DR/25]:
(1) It is recommended that the 1952 programme be limited to one such team, in the nature of a pilot project.
(2) It is further recommended that this team be chosen for a field within the Social Sciences, since similar programmes are already proposed under the Tech- nical Assistance programme for the Natural Sciences. In organizing the team and in carrying out its work, emphasis should clearly be given to Unesco’s purpose.
(3) № should also be noted that the salaries proposed in the work plan may be excessive and should be reconsidered. [64] Mr. WILLEMS (Belgium) said that to organize and send out two groups of professors, as envisaged in resolution 5.24, would be to copy a measure which had been introduced and maintained in Belgium since 1932, and which had given excellent results, out of all proportion to the expense involved. He therefore heartily approved the undertaking, though he wondered whether it was really essential to send a full-scale delegation with the professors. [66] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained that the idea was to send out, not individual professors, but a whole university team. The teaching of physics, for instance, could not yield all the desired results unless the senior professor were accompanied by an assistant, and—Unesco’s task being to contribute to international understanding—by a third lecturer to н и     IV-11 PROGRAMME teach the international history of physics, the common heritage of mankind. There should also be a professor qualified to draw up a report on the results of the experiment. It would therefore be dangerous to split up the provisions of the resolution. He could, however, state that the Secretariat thought it would be possible to make a cut of $15,000 to $20,000 on the item. [66] Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) agreed that a distinction should be made between a scheme for professors to travel for purposes of study, and a scheme for the organization of teams to help foreign universities. [67] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) said the Executive Board had accepted the Italian amendment, but had not felt able to support the suggestions of the United States delegation. [68] Mr. FRANCOIS (France) said that he would support the cuts suggested by the Director-General. [69] Sir Arcot L. MUDALIAR (India) agreed with the Director-General that it would be extremely useful to send out teams, but pointed out that, although the senior professor and his assistant should belong to the same main discipline, they need not necessarily specialize in the same subject within that discipline. His main doubts concerned the need for an interpreter, as he considered it essential that the professors should speak at least one of the languages used in the university to which they were to be assigned. He suggested that, instead of staying in one university for a year, a team might visit two or three of the universities in a given country. With regard to the selection of universities, he did not agree that the International Association of University Professors and Lecturers should be consulted, but thought it would be better to consult the National University Board in the country concerned. It would be preferable for all members of a team to come from a single university, as they would then find it easier to work together. With regard to the sum of $79,000 provided for books and materials, he thought that the universities concerned should be able to furnish such supplies. Subject to the points which he had raised, the Indian delegation supported the project wholeheartedly. [70] Mrs. PECSON (Philippines) agreed with the Indian delegate’s remark regarding the language problem. She disagreed with him, however, that members of the team should come from the same university, and preferred the Secretariat’s suggestion. [71] Mr. RACKHAM (United Kingdom) stated that his delegation had no doubt of the value of activities of the kind proposed, but wished to express a word of caution: although the proposal had been referred COMMISSION to the International Association of University Pro- fessors and Lecturers, the latter’s views had not yet been communicated to Unesco, and the United Kingdom delegation would have preferred Unesco not to go ahead with the project until IAUPL had agreed that it was desirable. If it did so, the United Kingdom delegation would fully support Unesco’s action. [72] Mr. VITO (Italy) entirely supported the project and withdrew his delegation’s amendment (document 6C/DR/75) in view of the statement contained in the last paragraph of document 6C/ PRG/13 that “in all these steps, Unesco will co- operate with the International Universities Bureau, the International Association of University Pro- fessors and Lecturers and other competent inter- national organizations”. [73] At the same time Mr. Vito asked that, in the summary record of the meeting, it should be ex- plicitely stated that IAUPL, owing to its 10 years’ activity and experience, was in a particularly fa- vourable position to render useful service to Unesco in preparing the lists of professors to be selected for University teams. [74] Mr. ZOOK (United States of America) stated that his delegation warmly supported resolution 5.24, even to the point of feeling that it might be desirable in 1953 to have as many as four or six teams. All he was about to say, therefore, was inspired by a desire for the success of the project. [75] The Conference had attached great impor- tance to Unesco’s Fundamental Education Programme and was going to devote very close attention to its Technical Assistance programme, but it was clear that no substantial progress could be made in countries needing those programmes unless there were a supplementary programme in the field of higher education to provide the necessary leadership in those and other areas of social progress. The promotion of higher education was therefore as important as any other form of education in under- developed countries. [76] As far as the Conference was concerned, the project put forward in resolution 5.24 was a new venture and was excellently described in document
6C/PRG/13. The Budget Committee had, however, expressed the opinion that substantial savings could be made on it, and the Commission was obliged to take that opinion into account, as well as the general instruction given to the Director-General to effect economies in all fields. After conversations among its own members and with other delegations, the United States delegation had therefore reluctantly come to the conclusion that it would be desirable to launch the project with one team only. If it had been practicable, it would have proposed that one team should begin work in January 1952 and a second in September of the same year; but as that   | | | | | | | | | | | |
343 PROGRAMME was notfeasible for the time being, it proposed to start with a single team in 1952, making provision in the 1953 budget for an increased number of teams. [77] With regard to the budget for the project, the United States delegation proposed not a 50 per cent cut, but a reduction of 12.5 per cent on the appropriation for the one remaining team, which would mean a provision of $39,000 for that team for one year. [78] Mr. GABRIEL JEAN-FRANCOIS (Haiti) ap- proved the principle of the scheme, but wondered whether it might not be possible to include it in the technical assistance programme. [79] Mgr. MAROUN (Lebanon) was particularly pleased with the undertaking in question, which was unlike anything else in the same field: it aimed at organizing a self-contained team of professors of one subject, whose personal qualities would complement each other, and at bringing fresh ideas to uni- versities, which were too often shut up in an ivory tower of their own. He thought the two suggested groups would both be needed, to bring to inade- quately equipped universities the scientific and technical resources they lacked. It might also be thought possible to arrange for missions to be sent from the Middle East, for instance, to European and American universities, where they could give very valuable assistance [80] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL observed that there were, in fact, two suggestions under consider- ation: one, that the appropriation asked for for the two teams of professors should be maintained; the other, submitted by the United States of America, that only one team should be sent, with a cut of
12.5 per cent on the appropriation. Midway be- tween those two solutions lay the Secretariat’s sug- gestion that the two teams should be maintained, but that there should be cuts amounting to nearly
15 per cent, representing a saving of $20,000. Those reductions would be made possible only by abandoning the idea of sending interpreters with the missions, a measure the Director-General was re- luctantly prepared to accept. The Secretariat's suggestion would have the advantage of enabling the experiment to be conducted in two different parts of the world. [81] Tt was, the Director-General regretted, impossi- ble to bring the project under the technical assistance scheme, for such a step would mean that it could be applied only in under-developed areas, whereas the missions referred to were unaffected by any considerations of technical development. Moreover, their aim was also to assist in reorganizing methods of teaching certain subjects, and that was something that could be achieved only by a team working under the auspices of an international organization. COMMISSION IV-11 [82] Item 5.24 was adopted. [83] The reduction of $20,000 in the appropriation was approved by 22 votes to 1, with 2 abstentions. Items 5.25 and 5.31. [84] Both items were adopted without comment. Item 5.32. (“In co-operation with the Member States concerned, the United Nations and Specialized Agencies and the competent international organi- zations, to administer fellowships, interneships and travel grants, financed entirely or in part by Unesco, in fields directly related to the programme of the Organization.”) [85] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said the Secre- tariat was not suggesting anycuts for the time being, but it might be necessary to consider the possibility at the second reading. [86] Item 5.32 was adopted. $206,795 was pro-[87] The appropriation ‘of visionally approved. Mass Communication. IMPROVEMENT OF MEANS AND TECHNIQUES OF CÓMMUNI- CATION. Item 6.11. [88] Item 6.11, involving no special costs, was adopted. Item 6.12. (“To maintain, in co-operation with Mem- ber States and appropriate international organizations, a clearing house for the collection, dissemination and exchange of information on questions pertaining to the improvement of the means and techniques of communication and to the international free flow of information, as well as on the special use of the means of communication for educational, scientific and cultural purposes.”) [89] Mr. KHUSHWANT SINGH (India) had no objection to the resolution, but hoped that, in future, Member States would be consulted regarding the facts and figures appearing in certain publications. Some of the information given was out of date, and it was therefore desirable that there should be closer co-operation between members of the Mass Com- munication Department and their opposite numbers in Member States. [90] Item 6.12 and the budget estimate of $31,410 were approved.
17-1 PROGRAMME Item 6.121. (“To publish information required for the execution of the programme, with the results of surveys and studies previously undertaken.”) [91] Mr. RACKHAM (United Kingdom) observed that his delegation appreciated the usefulness of surveys, but wondered whether there was an urgent need for the overall surveys mentioned in the work plans. [92] Mr. SCHNEIDER (Director, Department of Mass Communication) replied that the Secretariat could, if necessary, postpone two of the volumes mentioned in the work plans until 1953 or a later year, thus effecting an economy of $28,000 on con- tractual printing. That reduction would amount to more than the nine per cent cut required on each нет. [93] Mr. VICKERY (United States of America) supported the proposed reduction, and hoped that some of the money saved would be made available for item 6.13. He suggested that the three special studies mentioned in the last paragraph of the work plans under item 6.121 might be conducted by universities. [94] Mr. SCHNEIDER (Director, Department of Mass Communication) replied that contact had been established with universities, which had agreed to assist with the editing of the texts, but it was unlikely that the Secretariat would be able to obtain their help for the actual publishing. [95] Mr. TERROU (France) said the French dele- gation had been very favourably impressed by the quality of the information brought together in the surveys mentioned in resolution 6.121, which had made it possible, for the first time, to form a definite estimate of technical needs all over the world. He thought it would be a matter for regret if Unesco could not publish all the surveys straight away. [96] Mr. VICKERY (United States of America) suggested that money might be saved by issuing supplements to bring the volumes up to date. The money thus saved could then be diverted to item
6:13: [97] Mr. SCHNEIDER (Director, Department of Mass Communication) explained that, in the past few years, Unesco had published the results of field surveys of press, film and radio in the various countries; it had been possible to keep them up to date by issuing supplements. In future, however, it was proposed to publish a different kind of study: an overall and detailed picture of the role of news agencies, press, film and radio throughout the world; each study would have to be a complete work, and the method of supplements could not be used. COMMISSION [98] Mr. VICKERY (United States of America) accepted the Secretariat's explanation. [99] Item 6.121 was approved, with a reduction of $28,000 in the budget estimate of $61,500. tem 6.13. (“To assist MemberStates at their request and with their financial participation, by the advice of experts, in organizing, developing and improving their communication facilities and techniques in a specified field.”) [100] Mr. SAGLAM (Turkey) said that, in 1950, a mission of radio specialists had been sent to Turkey and had done exceptionally useful work there. It had also trained technicians and helped to organize school film programmes in Turkish schools. He hoped Unesco, encouraged by the success of that experiment, would arrange further missions of the same kind. [101] Item 6.13 was adopted, and the appropriation of $25,000 was approved. Ttems 6.14 and 6.15. [102] Items 6.14 and 6.15 were adopted. Proposal for the establishment of a World Braille Council. [103] The United Kingdom delegation had sug- gested, as an amendment (document 6C/DR/12), that the following resolution should be included in the Programme for 1952 : “The Director-General is authorized to promote and assist the establishment of a World Braille Council”. [104] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) recommended the adoption of the draft re- solution, but said it would necessitate a budget increase which would have to be considered in relation to the cuts to be made in the total budget figure. [105] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said he could understand that the suggestion would be favourably received, but the fact that it would necessitate an increase in the budget made it impossible to re- commend its adoption. Item 6.13, however, which had just been approved by the Commission, provided a sum of $25,000 for supplying new missions to improve communication facilities and techniques. Owing to the difficulties confronting the Secretariat, the results that could be achieved with that $25,000 would be very little better than those obtained in previous years with $20,000. He therefore suggested that $5,000 should be deducted from the appropri- alion for item 6.13 and transferred to the United Kingdom draft resolution.      E E E “ ل ‎ P r m i a ا ل س ‎
345 PROGRAMME [106] That suggestion was adopled. The appro- priation for item 6.13 was reduced to $20,000. [107] The United Kingdom resolution was adopted, with an appropriation of $5,000. [108] Mr. SCHNEIDER (Director, Department of Mass Communication) proposed a slight amendment to the United Kingdom resolution: “The Director- General is authorized to assist the operation of the World Braille Council by means of a grant. . . .” [109] Mr. RACKHAM (United Kingdom) accepted the amendment, provided that the words “in the first year” were added. [110] Both amendments were adopted. [111] Sir Arcot L. MUDALIAR (India) expressed his delegation’s sincere gratitude to Unesco for its efforts to unify the Braille system. The Indian delegation had intended to propose the inclusion of musical notation in the unified system, but as it was too late to submit new proposals, it requested the Director-General and the Executive Board to take note of the suggestion and study the possibility of implementing it in 1953. REMOVAL OF OBSTACLES TO THE FREE FLOW or INFOR- MATION. Items 6.27 and 6.22. [112] Ttems 6.21 and 6.22 were adopted. Item 6.23. (“To take the measures incumbent upon the Organization in the application of the Agreement for Facilitating the International Circulation of Visual and Auditory Materials of an Educational, Scientific and Cultural Character and of the Agreement on the Importation of Educational, Scientific and Cultural Materials.” ) [113] Mr. VICKERY (United States of America) did not think that the sum of $8,772 would be required in 1952, as he feared that ratification of the Agreements would not have advanced sufficiently by that time to make it necessary for the Organi- zation to take measures to ensure that the Agreements were applied. He suggested potsponement of the expenditure until 1953. [114] Mr. SCHNEIDER (Director, Department of Mass Communication) replied that the Secretariat hoped for many new ratifications before 1952, and, pending the entry into force of the Agreements, a steadily increasing number of requests would be received for information on measures to be taken with a view to their application. He therefore believed that it would be necessary to issue the catalogues and manuals in 1952. COMMTSSTON IV-11 [115] Mr. RACKHAM (United Kingdom) did not share the pessimism of the United States delegate, and appreciated the Secretariat's reply. His dele- gation nevertheless considered that some reduction could be made. [116] Mr. SCHNEIDER (Director, Department of Mass Communication) stated that it might be possible to issue the manuals in a less ambitious form and thus save $3,000 out of the $8,772. [117] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL asked the Com- mission to postpone its decision regarding the appropriation until the Secretariat had been able to make precise estimates. [118] Item 6.33 was adopted, the relevant budget- ary appropriation being left for decision at the second reading. Items 6.231, 6.2} and 6.241. [119] Items 6.231, 6.24 and 6.241 were adopted. Item 6.25. (“To co-operate with the United Nations, the Specialized Agencies and appropriate international organizations, with a view to promoting in their respective fields technical studies and practical measures designed to facilitate the removal of obstacles to the free flow of information.”) [120] Mr. SCHNEIDER (Director, Department of Mass Communication) had no reduction to propose on the estimate of $34,700, but the Division con- cerned anticipated that it could do with one post less at Grade 12 in 1952, which would result in a saving of $6,253 in personnel costs. [121] Mr. VICKERY (United States of America) asked whether the meeting of experts mentioned in section C could not be postponed. [122] Mr. SCHNEIDER (Director, Department of Mass Communication) remarked that, for the time being, the Secretariat was struggling to make the cut of nine per cent on the programme items. He had not intended to propose a cut under section C unless it proved necessary when the Commission went through the programme for the second time. At that time, he would have proposed a cut of $6,400 on section C; he would propose it, at the moment, only on condition that no further cut was made when the second examination of the pro- gramme took place. [123] Mr. KHUSHWANTSINGH (India) proposed the addition of a further subject in section A: a study of the distribution facilities for films, particu- larly scientific and educational films. [124] Mr. SCHNEIDER (Director, Department of
8   IV-11 PROGRAMME Mass Communication) thanked the Indian delegate for his excellent suggestion, which he very much hoped it would be possible to carry out. As, however, the project was to be implemented in co- operation with the United Nations, the latter would have to be consulted before any steps were taken. He was sure that the United Nations would welcome the proposal. [125] Mr. RACKHAM (United Kingdom) also welcomed the Indian delegate’s suggestion. With regard to the other subjects, mentioned in section A, number (iii) seemed to have been covered already, and number (iv) appeared to be rather too vast. He would have preferred to confine the list of sub- jects to numbers (i), (ii) and (v), plus the subject suggested by the Indian delegation. [126] Mr. SCHNEIDER (Director, Department of Mass Communication) stated that the matter would be further studied by the United Nations Com- mittee on Freedom of Information and the Press, when the various remarks made in the Programme Commission would be taken into consideration. [127] Item 6.25 was approved. [128] Referring to the budget estimate of $34,000, Mr. RACKHAM (United Kingdom) moved that the Commission should agree forthwith to the postpone- ment of the meeting of experts mentioned in section C, thus obtaining a saving of $6,400. [129] The motion was adopted. Use or THE MEANS OF COMMUNICATION. Item 6.81. (“Member States are invited to stimulate and facilitate, within the framework of their national laws and customs, the use of the means of commu- nication, in order to. contribute to international understanding, based upon respect for Human Rights, by obtaining support of and participation in the programme of Unesco by the general public.”) [130] Approved. Items 6.32 and 6.321. (“The Director-General is authorized, in order to make known to the general public the aims and activities of Unesco: to produce and distribute in several languages, news items and articles, in particular through the Courier and Unesco Features Service.”) [131] Mr. MOORE (Australia) asked for infor- mation regarding the use made in Member States of Unesco’s press releases and features. Experience in his country showed that the metropolitan press was not interested, but that considerable use was made of Unesco materials in the provincial press. He wondered whether other countries had had the same experience. COMMISSION 346 [132] Mr. SCHNEIDER (Director, Department of Mass Communication) confirmed that that was generally true for the use of material provided by Unesco. Papers and magazines which had no access to the great world press services and agencies and which had a modest staff reproduced Unesco material in encouraging quantities. Metropolitan dailies, however, confined themselves to brief accounts of Unesco’s activities, without giving much support to its programme. Use of Unesco material was, however, increasing and the Secretariat had been encouraged by the results obtained in the past
18 months. [133] Mr. de SPOT (Belgium) suggested that certain items should nevertheless be reduced: in the first place, an annual reportage would be too costly. He thought there should be no increase in such undertakings, but that Unesco should be satisfied with the excellent results obtained in the previous year. In the second place, he proposed that the special articles on Unesco’s field activities should be abandoned; and finally, that the suggested booklets should not be published, as there was no evidence of their immediate practical value. [134] Mr. VICKERY (United States of America) did not believe that the Department of Mass Communication had too large a staff for the amount of work which it had to carry out but, if a cut on staff had to be made, he would propose that the Press Section should be reduced, because there was no evidence of Unesco’s impact on the press of the world and he was convinced that a considerable reduction could be made on press releases and features. With regard to the Courier, subscriptions to it were not being renewed, at least in his own country, and its content and format should be studied with a view to improvement. It did not seem to be aimed at the right readers, and the Secre- tariat would do well to consult with experts on the subject. [135] Replying to the Belgian delegate Mr. SCHNEIDER (Director, Department of Mass Com- munication) stated that reports from Member States, and from the United Kingdom in particular, showed that the special reportages were widely used. Unesco had felt flattered when WHO, observing the success of Unesco’s reportages, had decided to organize some of its own. He personally would be distressed if that particular activity were not continued. [136] With regard to the coverage of Unesco’s field activities, Mr. Schneider referred to page 216 of the Budget Estimates [document 6C/5 (ID] where it was indicated that seminars, regional conferences and fundamental education projects would be given full professional coverage, some of it to be undertaken by locally engaged staff and — . . . م
34 so $7 off the Un tar the and in wo ser see [13 out tha add Aug suc to at { at | mis to pan [131 Mr. serv the the [134 visid pla post Cou nece Ger $22 A [14 Une thu coul feat [141 that had rend beTI the [149 deleg wor} Mass cons desig ment publ
347 PROGRAMME some by members of the Secretariat. A sum of $7,150 was allowed under that item for travel on official business. Member States, and particularly the Swedish National Commission, had requested Unesco to extend the visits of members of the Secre- tariat to cover Unesco activities. Such visits had the double advantage of spreading Unesco’s ideas and providing members of the Secretariat working in a creative field with a fresh approach to their work. He stressed the fact that international civil servants of the Secretariat gained immeasurably by seeing Unesco at work in the field. [137] Pamphlets were of two kinds, (i) the hand- outs, which seemed to have been found so necessary that Australia had used the contents of one of them, adding items of local interest, to produce You and Australia and Unesco; and (ii) a pamphlet proper, such as Unesco and its Programme, which seemed to fill a real need in some cases. Unesco was often at a loss to appraise the value of its output and, at the meeting of representatives of National Com- missions, Mr. Schneider had begged those present to say frankly whether they considered Unesco’s pamphlets good or bad, giving their reasons. [138] Replying to the United States delegate, Mr. Schneider gave figures for Unesco’s “Features” service. The Secretariat had already decided that the number of press releases shoud be reduced and the quality improved. [139] As for the staff and budget of the Press Di- vision, it had originally been proposed in the work plans to set up a German unit, composed of four posts at Grades 14, 12, 8 and 4, to publish the Courier in German. But it had since been found necessary to defer the publication of the Courier in German, thus saving $8,000,- plus an economy of $22,140 on personnel costs. [140] Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) stated that Unesco’s programme pamphlets had been en- thusiastically received in Norway by those who could use them. The same was true of Unesco features. [141] Mr.de SPOT (Belgium) wished to make it clear that he had not spoken in a spirit of criticism, but had merely thought that the sums which would be rendered available by the steps he suggested might be more usefully devoted to certain other items of the programme. [142] Mrs. PECSON (Philippines) stated that her delegation realized the importance of Unesco's press work, but wondered whether the Department of Mass Communication, in issuing press releases, considered the type of readers for whom they were designed; she also wondered whether the Depart- ment made a conscious effort to ensure that Unesco's publications were included in school lists throughout COMMISSION IV-11 the world. She asked if the Secretariat tried to ascertain what use was made of Unesco publications in Member States, what were the effects produced by suchuse, and what efforts were made by National Commissions to circulate any information supplied to them. [143] In the Philippines, the attitude of the press was friendly towards Unesco, and requests were constantly being made for Unesco articles, but the latter, when received, often left much to be desired. [144] In conclusion, Mrs. Pecson’s delegation warmly supported strong and effective press rela- tions between Unesco and its Member States, and urged that more care should be taken in the selection of subjects for press releases and features. [145] Reverting to the Belgian delegate’s remarks, Mr. SCHNEIDER (Director, Department of Mass Communication) suggested that, rather than make a cut on the special reportage project, a general cut of $5,500 should be applied to resolution 6.321, without attaching the reduction to any particular item. [146] Mr. de SPOT (Belgium) was grateful to the Secretariat for the proposed reduction and accepted it. [147] Mr. SCHNEIDER (Director, Department of Mass Communication) thought that a reduction of $1,000 could later be made under programme sup- plies and materials. [148] Replying to the delegate of the Philippines, Mr. Schneider said that efforts were being made to see that press releases and features better served the purpose for which they were intended. Distri- bution to schools was in the hands of Mr. Delavenay, who was certainly making every effort to reach the right targets. The use of Unesco material in Member States was being studied, and there were touching examples of such use in remote parts of the world. [149] Mr. VICKERY (United States of America) commended the work accomplished by the Depart- ment of Mass Communication and stressed that he had merely wished to draw attention to the fact that radio and films were more effective media for advancing Unesco’s aims than the press. He there- fore hoped that any unavoidable cuts would be made on the press and not on film and radio. [150] Item 6.321 was adopted. [151] The proposed reduction of $13,500 on the estimate of $101,350 and the reduction of $22,240 on personnel costs were approved. The meeting rose at 7.10 p.m.