193 PRE NA RY [26] I wish to express my deepest and warmest feelings of respect and admiration for all the out- going members of the Executive Board. [27] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of Mexico; he speaks as a colleague of these men and MEETINGS 11-5 he has seen their work. Now, in adjourning this evening, may I thank our tellers, Mr. Gabriel of Haiti and Mr. Samaniego of Ecuador, for their good work? I now declare this meeting closed. . The meeting rose at 7 p.m. FIFTEENTH PLENARY MEETING Tuesday, 10 July 1951, at 3.20 p.m. President: Mr. HowLanp SARGEANT (United States of America) CONTENTS Presentation and adoption of the report of the Committee on Reports of Member States я 193 Presentation and adoption of the report of the Official and External Relations Commission E E 195 Presentation and consideration of the report of the Administrative Commission. Adoption of the amended text thereof . . . . 196 Presentation and adoption of the report of the Programme Commission 202 [1] The PRESIDENT — This afternoon it is pro- posed to consider, first, the report of the Committee on Reports of Member States; second, the report of the Official and External Relations Commission; and third, the report of the Administrative Commission. If we have time, we may be able to begin considera- tion of the report of the Programme Commission. At tomorrow morning’s meeting, we may then con- tinue with the Report of the Programme Commission and also consider the reports of the Procedure Com- mittee and of the Budget Committee. [2] For the presentation of these reports, the Gener- al Committee has recommended that we adopt the following procedure: [3] First, I shall ask the Chairman or Rapporteur of each of the Commissions and Committees to make his report to us, wherever possible summarizing the main conclusions and not reading the entire text of the report to us. This will be possible since these reports will have been distributed to each one of us in advance. [4] Second, the General Committee felt that, while a Rapporteur, summarizing the important work carried out by many delegates over the period of the Con- ference could not be asked to confine himself to any fixed time, each Rapporteur or Chairman, in present- ing the Report, should avoid even those courtesies which I know that many of us would like to pay to our Officers who have handled the work of the Commissions. The work of the plenary meetings would thus be greatly advanced. [5] Third, it is the suggestion of the General Com- mittee that, when a report has been presented and its major conclusions outlined to us by the Rapporteur, those delegates who agree with the conclusions of the report should not ask to speak. If delegates wish to move amendments or new proposals, they should limit their remarks strictly to five minutes. Rap- porteurs should be prepared to comment on any such amendments or proposals, summarizing, for the benefit of all of us, any relevant discussion within their working parties. If you approve this procedure, I shall first call upon Professor Eustathiades of Greece, Rapporteur of the Committee on Reports of Member States. Presentation and Adoption of the Report of the Committee on Reports of Member States. [6] Mr. EUSTATHIADES (Greece), Rapporteur of the Committee on Reports of Member States —
11-15 PLENARY [Translation from the French] Mr. President, on behalf of the Committee on Reports of Member States I have the honour of presenting that Com- mittee’s report, in accordance with the recent resolu- tions of the General Committee. [7] (I) The Committee noted that the number of reports sent in was appreciably higher than in previous years. Many reports were transmitted within the time-limit fixed for their translation, while others, though not received until that limit had elapsed, have nevertheless been multigraphed in their original language, and were thus made available to the Com- mittee. In this connexion, the Committee wishes to point out: (a) That, by the terms of Article VIII of the Constitution, all Member States, without exception, are required to send in a report to the Organization; (b) That these reports must be sent in by the date fixed by the Executive Board, so that they may be carefully studied before the opening of the Gen- eral Conference. [8] (II) As to the form of Member States’ re- ports, the Committee noted that the general plan drawn up by the Director-General was not followed in every case. The Committee wishes to remind Member States that in order to be complete and for purposes of com- parison, the annual reports should contain all the information asked for by the Organization, together with all relevant statistics, and should follow the general plan suggested by the Director-General. [9] (III) The Committee also wishes to stress the fact that, as certain reports are lacking and others are insufficiently detailed, it is difficult to get a complete picture of the activity of Member States during 1950. The impression conveyed by the reports as a whole is that a considerable number of National Com- missions are not yet effective, or were too recently formed to be able as yet to give an account of their work. Moreover, some reports give insufficient space to the work of National Commissions which are al- ready well established and in regular co-operation with the Secretariat. Taking into consideration the contents of the whole body of these reports, the Committee wishes it to be remembered that the aims laid down for Unesco in its Constitution, and more especially—as stressed by the General Conference at its Fifth Session—*‘its effective contribution to the cause of peace”, can be attained only insofar as the Member States and the National Commissions give active support to the Organization’s annual programme. [10] (IV) The Committee also wishes to thank the Director-General for his share in its work. It draws particular attention to the fact that in cases where the plan suggested by the Director- General was followed, it was possible to compile fuller information concerning the implementation of the programme by the Member States. MEETINGS 194 [11] As to the form of future reports, it is recom- mended that these should continue to consist of two parts, one for the public and the other for the Organi- zation.
(1) The first part might take the form either of a free and vivid account of the main features of the year’s work, or of a detailed description of one or more specific undertakings, different ones being selected each year.
(2) In regard to the second part of the report, the majority of the Committee came to the following conclusions: (a) That the plan proposed should be accom- panied by explanations, to enable new Member States to grasp its purpose and its main lines and thus achieve greater success in carrying out their obliga- tions under Article VIII of the Constitution. (b) That the reports should be drawn up in such a way as to follow, point by point, the Director- General's questionnaire, since their close adherence to the plan also tends to facilitate the comparison of the efforts being made to implement the programme of Unesco. (c) That every State should strive to provide, on every point, the information which is essential to enable the Organization to form a sufficiently faithful and accurate idea of the activity undertaken or of the reasons which have made it impossible to under- take certain activities during the year under con- sideration. The Committee also felt that:
(3) The reports should contain a survey of the activities of the National Commissions, with more precise details concerning methods employed and work done.
(4) In view of the terms of the Constitution and of Resolution 30.2113 adopted by the General Con- ference at its Fifth Session, Member States should also include, under a separate heading, a statement of the progress achieved by their respective countries, outside the annual programme of the Organization, in the development of education, science and culture. [12] As for the method to be applied to the study of future reports, the Committee suggested:
(1) That the General Conference should be advised to appoint, before the end of the Session, the special Committee which will be entrusted with the consideration of the reports for 1951.
(2) That the volume containing the reports should be made available to the Committee a month before thé opening of the General Conference, and should be accompanied by the analysis and observations of the Director-General.
(3) That the comments and recommendations of the Committee shall continue to be examined by the General Conference in plenary session. [13] In conclusion, the Committee, conscious of the wide scope of the task entrusted to it, has attempted through its suggestions and recommenda- tions to help Member States to keep the Organiza- tion informed of the progress made in their con- + s i n i — m m . „ о н О Н И al
195 PLENARY tribution to the implementation of the programme and aims of Unesco, in accordance with the wishes of the General Conference. [14] The PRESIDENT — I thank the Rapporteur of the Committee on Reports of Member States. You have heard his proposal that we not only adopt the conclusions of the Committee, but, before the end of the present Session, establish a special Committee to study the reports for 1951 and to formulate, at a plenary meeting of the next session, the observations and recommendations relating to the activities of Member States. Is the General Conference now ready to approve the draft resolution submitted? If so, we may now proceed to appoint the States to be re- presented on the special Committee recommended in the resolution. I take it that the Report is adopted. [15] I shall now ask the Chairman of our Nomina- tions Committee to report to us the action taken by the Nominations Committee with respect to the recommendation that we establish forthwith the membership of the special Committee. [16] Mr. MANACH (Cuba), Chairman of the Nominations Committee — [Translation from the Spanish] Mr. President and fellow-delegates, speak- ing on behalf of the Nominations Committee, I have the honour to inform you that that Committee met yesterday and unanimously adopted the following
11 countries as candidates for the Committee on Reports of Member States for 1952: Australia, Bel- gium, Cuba, France, Haiti, Lebanon, Philippines, Switzerland, Turkey, United Kingdom and United States of America. [17] The PRESIDENT — Does the General Con- ference approve the recommendations of the Nomina- tions Committee? As I hear no objection, I rule that the General Conference has adopted these recom- mendations. [18] I should like to inform you that I presented to the General Committee at its meeting this morn- ing a report from the British Foreign Secretary, Mr. Herbert Morrison, stating that Laos has deposited the necessary instrument of acceptance as at 9 July and is therefore entitled to participate fully in all sessions of our General Conference. Presentation and Adoption of the Report of the Official and External Relations Commission. [19] The PRESIDENT — I shall now call on the Rapporteur of the Official and External Relations Commission, Mr. Sardjito of the Indonesian dele- gation. [20] Mr. M. SARDJITO (Indonesia), Rapporteur of the Official and External Relations Commission — MEETINGS 11-5 [Translation from the French] Mr. President and fellow-delegates, I have the honour to present to you the Report of the work done by the Official and Ex- ternal Relations Commission [document 6C/OXR/18 (rev)]. In view of the length of this Report I shall not read it in full but shall only draw your attention to the main points. [21] You will see on the first two pages how the Commission was composed, the number of meetings it held, and the membership of the Working Party set up to discuss jointly with the Working Party appointed by the Programme Commission three important items of its Agenda concerning the adapta- tion of Unesco’s activities to the needs of different regions. I should also like to stress that two items, one on the development of the Twenty-Year Pro- gramme for achieving Peace through the United Nations, and the other on the Application of Direc- tives concerning relations with international non- governmental organizations, were added to the agenda appearing originally in document 6C/1 (rev). [22] The recommendations of the Commission are set out on page 2 and the following pages. We had long discussions on several points, especially on regional problems, but satisfactory decisions were reached and all the draft resolutions were adopted unanimously or by a large majority. [23] On page 2 begins the section on Member States and National Commissions, based on recommenda- tions submitted to the General Conference by representatives of National Commissions at their third meeting. You will see that all the recommendations submitted were approved, some of them with small modifications; the last of these recommendations, relating to audio-visual methods, particularly films, was transmitted to the Programme Commission and is given as resolution 8.652 in the latter’s report
(6C/PRG/34). [24] In addition, may I draw your attention to the fact that the Agreement concerning the free importa- tion of educational, scientific and cultural materials has been ratified by two countries instead of one, as stated in the second resolution on Mass Communica- tion appearing in the Report under consideration. [25] Then come the three important items relating to the adaptation of Unesco’s activities to the needs of certain regions. As I said before, a Joint Work- ing Party appointed both by the Official and External Relations and by the Programme Commissions studied this matter. This Working Party, which held five meetings, made two reports, the first of which, dealing with the grouping of Member States by regions, was discussed jointly by the two Com- missions. You will find the results of these discus- sions in the Report of the Programme Commission
(6C/PRG/34). [26] The decisions taken on the second report of the Joint Working Party appear on pages 6, 7 and 8 of the document under discussion. You will see that it was decided to strengthen the Unesco Regional
11-5 PLENARY Office at Havana during 1952 and a sum was allocated for this purpose. The Commission approves in principle the progressive establishment of an efficient network of offices adapted to the specific needs of regions distant from headquarters, and re- quested the Director-General to study the problems involved in the creation of such offices, to report on this subject to the Seventh Session of the General Conference and to make provision in the budget for 1953 and 1954 for such funds as may be required for the creation and development of these offices. [27] We then come to the section dealing with the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies. The Commision considered reports of the Director-General on the various steps taken by Unesco to ensure co- ordination with the appropriate organs of the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies, including those dealing with the trust and non-self-governing territories. Tt also examined the decisions adopted by the General Assembly and the Economic and Social Council in connexion with co-ordination, as well as the measures, such as the establishment of priorities, to be taken by Unesco to give effect to them. In this connexion, I wish particularly to draw your attention to an important resolution (pages 8 and 9 of the English text) approved by acclamation; it is designed to give support to the Security Council and the General Assembly action in matters concerning the maintenance of peace and international security. On page 10 you will see another resolution pledging the Organization’s support to the Twenty-Year Pro- gramme proposed by the Secretary-General of the United Nations for achieving peace through the United Nations. [28] In the third section relating to international organizations, 1 should like to draw your attention to the recommendation that the General Conference instruct the Director-General, acting under the gen- eral authority of the Executive Board, to negotiate with the Secretariat of the Council of Europe a draft agreement for submission to the Executive Board. It is also recommended that the General Conference authorize the Director-General to renew the formal agreements now in force between Unesco and the International Bureau of Education, the International Committee of Weights and Measures, and the Organi- zation of American States. [29] You will find on pages 11 to 14 several recommendations based on the Executive Board's proposals relating to international non-governmental organizations. These concern mainly the admission of a number of organizations to consultative status, the renewal of formal agreements concluded with certain of them, and the application of the directives concerning relations with these organizations. Some amendments to these directives are also recom- mended. [30] In addition, the Commission recommends to the General Conference to postpone to its next session consideration of the recommendations submitted by MEETINGS the Second Conference of International Non- Governmental Organizations admitted to Consultative Status with Unesco, which took place at Unesco House three weeks ago. [31] Finally, you will see on page 14 of the Report that the decisions taken jointly by the Official and External Relations Commission and the Programme Commission on Unesco’s activities in Germany and Japan appear in the Report of the Programme Com- mission. [32] The PRESIDENT — I thank Dr. Sardjito, Rap- porteur of the Official and External Relations Com- mission for his summary of the recommendations and conclusions of that report. If there are no points which you wish to discuss, we may vote on the report as a whole; however, if delegates wish to speak on individual items, we shall have to go through each item separately. 1 see no delegates who wish to address themselves to individual items. Does any delegate move the adoption of the entire report, including its draft resolutions? The delegate of the United States of America does, and is supported by delegates of the Philippines, Greece, Panama, New Zealand and others. As I hear no objection, I will then declare to Mr. Mameli that we have noted the work of this Commission, we have found it good and have adopted it unanimously. Chairman of Commission Thank you, [33] Мг. F. G. MAMELI (Italy), the Official and External Relations — [Translation from the French] Mr. President. Presentation and Consideration of the Report of the Administrative Commission. [34] The PRESIDENT — We now come to the re- port of the Administrative Commission. I will ask the Rapporteur, Mr. Thedin of Sweden, to summarize the recommendations of the report of the Adminis- trative Commission. [35] Mr. N. THEDIN (Sweden), Rapporteur, Ad- ministrative Commission — Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present to you the report of the Administrative Commission to the Sixth Session of the General Conference (document 6C/ ADM/22 and 6C/ADM/22 Corrigendum). Twelve meetings of the Commission were held under the Chairmanship of Mr. van der Straten-Waillet, Bel- gium. Dr. M. Avidor, Israel, and Mr. Garcia Cal- derón, Peru, were elected Vice-Chairmen. As indicated in the report, two Working Committees were set up and had to report to the Commission. The recommendations of the Administrative Com- mission are mainly based on the reports of these Committees. In its introduction, the report mentions that the Administrative Commission has already      — — — . . m — — _ — _ .
197 PLENARY reported to the General Conference on the methods of financing the budget for 1952. This report was adopted and consequently figures in the records of the Conference. [36] You will note that the first part of the report contains a résumé of the deliberations of the Adminis- trative Commission. The resolutions which it has recommended to the General Conference for adoption are contained in Annex I, while Annex IT contains the recommendations of the Administrative Commission concerning the Financial Regulations of Unesco. In accordance with your wish, Mr. President, I do not propose to deal with the report in detail, but rather to indicate those resolutions which may be considered to be of greatest importance. [37] Among the financial questions, one of the most important is the scale of contributions of Mem- ber States (No. A.3 in the report). Here the Com- mission recommends, in accordance with the prin- ciple adopted by the Third Session of the General Conference concerning maximumcontributions, that the contribution of the United States of America be fixed at 33.33 per cent. The special rates previously granted to Hungary and Austria have been confirmed for 1951. For the future, however, the Commission has decided to recommend the adoption of the rate given by the United Nations Committee on Con- tributions, except that for Austria special transition rates have been recommended, so that the full theoretical United Nations contribution will be reached in three equally progressive annual stages. I should also mention that the Commission has accepted the principle of per capita limitations in accordance with resolution 238A of the General Assembly of the” United Nations. This does not, however. affect the scale of contributions for 1952. [38] Moreover, the Commission recommends the creation of a Committee on Contributions of the General Conference to discuss, in the light of the recommendations of the United Nations Committee on Contributions, the percentage assessments of new Member States and States that are no members of the United Nations. The Administrative Commission recommends for adoption by the General Conference the Financial Regulations which you find embodied in Annex II of this report. They conform with the financial regulations of the United Nations with one exception, which takes care of Unesco’s particular problem of budgetary surpluses. This exception is, however, to be considered as provisional, pending clarification by the United Nations. [39] Paragraph 7 (a) on page 6 deals with the ad- ministration of the Working Capital Fund. Here the Commission has accepted the proposals of the Director-General, namely, that the Director-General be authorized to advance during 1952, from the Working Capital Fund, sums not exceeding $400,000 to establish a fund to finance self-liquidating ex- penditures, with the proviso that this fund shall not be used for advance purchase of paper in an amount ME FTINGS 11-5 exceeding the estimated requirements for the next six months; and moreover, that the Director-General be authorized to advance during 1952 from the Working Capital Fund, with the prior approval of the Executive Board, sums not to exceed a total of £300,000 to meet unforeseen, extraordinary and un- predictable expenditures of an emergency character, for purposes which are authorized by the General Conference but for which no sums have been provided in the budget, and for which no transfers within the budget are posible. It is expressly mentioned that this can be done only in order to respond to requests made by the United Nations specifically related to emergencies connected with the maintenance of peace and security. On the other hand, the Administrative Commission has not, for its part, accepted the use of the Working Capital Fund for unforeseen ex- penditures resulting from price increases. The Commission has, however, as you will find in para- graph 7, page 6, approved the use of the Working Capital Fund to provide a loan to the International Computation Centre, but it has emphasized that this is an exceptional measure. [40] The problem of the local salary and allowance system, which you will find in 9 (b), pages 6 to 7, and Resolution 21, was discussed at great length. It was finally possible for the Commission to reach a decision which was accepted by a large majority of its members. This was a compromise between the plan proposed by the majority of the Working Committee and the proposal of the Director-General. The effect has been to establish a salary system based on the best prevailing rates in the Paris area for staff in the general service category, and at the same time to give a certain amount of protection to staff engaged before the Florence Conference. The com- promise provides for reductions in the take-home pay received on 31 December 1950 by local staff engaged before the Florence Conference, limited to a maxi- mum of five per cent. [41] As far as the international salary and allow- ances system is concerned, the Commission has accepted the proposals of its Working Committee, as embodied in document 6C/ADM/21 (revised), Part II. The object of revision of the salary and allowance system is the achievement of greater co- ordination with the United Nations in this matter. I ought also to mention, as the matter has been discussed twice in the Administrative Commission, that the Commission recommends that the credits of the staff in the Provident Fund should remain in the custody of the Organization until such time as contributors leave the service of Unesco. This is embodied in paragraph 15, page 8. [42] The final point to which I should like to refer is paragraph 18 of this report. The Commission has considered the report of the Headquarters Committee, and adopted the resolution contained therein, with certain amendments. I refer here to resolution 27, which you will find in Annex I, page 10 to 11
11-15 РАН These amendments, in effect, require the approval of the Seventh Session of the General Conference, before construction of the new Headquarters may be begun. The Commission was unanimous in express- ing its appreciation of the generous action of the French Government in making possible the construc- tion of the new Unesco Headquarters. [43] The PRESIDENT — I thank the Rapporteur of the Administrative Commission Mr. Thedin of “Sweden, for taking us through a very complicated report, picking out the highlightswith the minimum of what I will call technical jargon. Two delegates have asked to speak. I will first call upon the dele- gate of Israel and, second, the delegate of France. [44] Mr. SAMBOURSKI (Israel) — Mr. President, I should like to refer to paragraph 15 of the document under consideration, dealing with the disposal of the credit balance of the Provident Fund. This is a matter of considerable importance to the members of Unesco staff and I understand that FAO has taken a different course from that suggested here, namely, that which was put to us by the Director-General as the first alternative, reading: “The amounts standing to the individual credit of staff members of the Provident Fund should be handed over to them at once and the Fund liquidated.” Mr. President, 1 should like to ask you if this question could be re- opened for discussion. [46] The PRESIDENT — May I ask the delegate of Israel before he leaves the rostrum, so that all our delegations should be completely clear, to give us the exact reference of this item. [46] Mr. SAMBOURSKI (Israel) — Mr. President, I refer to paragraph 15, page 8: ‘Disposal of Credit Balance of the Provident Fund.” [47] The PRESIDENT — If I understand the dele- gate of Israel correctly, he suggests re-opening the discussion. Are you moving a specific proposal? [48] Mr. SAMBOURSKI (Israel) — Yes, it is a pro- posal to re-open the discussion on the three sugges- tions put before the Administrative Commission by the Director-General in document 6C/ADM/20. [49] The PRESIDENT — Would you please sum- marize these proposals for us. [60] Mr. SAMBOURSKI (Israel) — I shall read them: The Director-General requests the General Conference in the course of the Sixth Session to consider three alter- natives: (a) the amounts standing to the individual credits of staff members in the Provident Fund could be handed over to them at once and the Fund liquidated; (b) that part of the credit balance which represents the
198MEETINGS contributions of staff members (50 per cent) could be handed over to the individual staff members, and the remaining balance could continue to be held by Unesco, the balance still standing to the credit of each individual contributor to be handed back to him only when he leaves the employ of Unesco; (c) the entire Fund could continue to be held by the Organization and contributors reimbursed only on leaving. This alternative scheme was suggested to us by the Administrative Commission. [51] The PRESIDENT — Thank you for making that entirely clear to those of us who were not participants in your discussion in the Commission. I will now ask the Rapporteur whether he will com- ment at this point on the remarks made. [52] Mr. N. THEDIN (Sweden) Rapporteur, Administrative Commission — Mr. President, as I mentioned in my report, this question has been discussed twice in the Administrative Commission: as you have heard, the Director-General asked the Commission to consider three alternatives. (1) That the amount standing to the individual credits of staff members in the Provident Fund could be handed over to them at once and the Fund liquidated; (2) that that part of the credit balance which represents the contributions of staff members could be handed over to the individual staff members and that the remaining balance could continue to be held by Unesco; (3) that the entire sum should continue to be held by the Organization and contributors reimbursed only on leaving. [63] The Commission took separate votes on each of the three proposals. The result of the vote was as follows: Paragraph 1—in favour, 7 votes; Para- graph 2—in favour, 8 votes; Paragraph 3—in favour,
15 votes. Paragraph 1 was therefore elimizated and a further vote was taken on paragraph 2 and 3. In favour of paragraph 2 there were 8 votes and in favour of paragraph 3 there were 17 votes. The third proposal was therefore adopted. At the last meeting of the Commission, the question was raised again and then the original decision was confirmed. [64] The PRESIDENT — I thank the Rapporteur. Now, with the permission of the plenary meeting I should like in disposing of this question to hear other delegates who wish to speak on it before we proceed. I call upon the delegate of France. [55] Mr. GUIGNOLET (France) Rapporteur of the Budget Committee — [Translation from the French] Mr. President and delegates, the Rapporteur has just told us that this question was considered by the Administrative Commission and that the three solutions proposed obtained 7, 8 and 15 votes respectively. It would therefore appear that a num- ber of delegates were absent, or had not thoroughly studied all the documents—and heaven knows there are enough of them! That is why I venture to address you once more, in order to support the    ñ o е н е е е д е т е E E r o , N I T ل و ج ‎ N T E E E н ы !
109 PERENNE delegate of Israel's suggestion that the question be re-examined. [56] I have been struck by the fact that FAO, in Rome, has already taken a very liberal course of action regarding its staff's Provident Fund. In international organizations we often refer to prece- dents such as exist in all organizations. Last year, in Florence, we were reluctant to institute separate local and international salary scales because we were afraid of creating a precedent. Now that the United Nations has come to a decision, we have been able to act with full knowledge, or at any rate with greater facility. [57] It seems to me that the question to be asked about this sum of money is: to whom does it belong? There can be no doubt of the answer. It belongs to the staff. So we must now put the question in another form: when is it to be paid back to the staff? There are three possibilities: it can be paid back now, in full; half of it can be paid back now; or it can be retained in full and paid back to the members of the staff as and when they leave the Organization. [58] But this sum, which belongs to the staff and has been deposited with Unesco, cannot now, in the absence of any definite legal rulings on the subject, remain in the Organization’s coffers. For if Unesco is the depositary and the staff is the depositor, the staff has the right at any time to revoke the authority of its depositary. When you have a sum on deposit in a bank and want to change banks, you withdraw your money from the first bank and take it to another. Similarly, those members of the staff who formerly paid in these sums in order to build up a retiring pension for themselves, and who have now elected not to participate in the new fund which has been established, may wish, for instance, to invest in securities which are now showing a good return, or to secure better living accommodation, instead of applying to a Working Capital Fund; they could use this money to improve their homes, or—an idea which particularly struck me—they could take out a policy with a French or foreign insurance company, in order to secure the pension which they could have previously secured through the old form of pension under the Working Capital Fund. In fact, by retaining this money, which belongs to the staff, the Organization is preventing the staff members from using it to their own best advantage. [59] You will note that when we first discussed the subject of salaries, the French delegation was in favour of a compromise in the form of a reduction —a very small one, it is true—in the salaries of the staff. Well, I think the staff has finally accepted that reduction (not joyfully, perhaps, but it has been accepted), and we are now in a position, at no cost to ourselves, to give satisfaction to the staff from the pecuniary as well as the moral point of view—I repeat, at no cost to ourselves, for this MEETINGS 11-5 money which lies here, in the coffers of the Organi- zation, belongs to the staff and can be returned to it at once, and there is a very simple course open to you: to adopt the resolution contained in para- graph 6 (i) of document ADM/20 and which states that: “The amounts standing to the individual credits of staff members in the Provident Fund could be handed over to them at once, and the Fund liquidated.” [60] By adopting this resolution you would be taking the same course as one of our sister organi- zations, you would give satisfaction to the staff, and that without putting any strain on Unesco’s finances. [61] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of France. Do others wish to speak to this item of the Administrative Commission Report? The dele- gates of the United States, Syria, Lebanon, Australia. I call upon the delegate of the United States. [62] Mr.М CATES Jr (United States of America) — Mr. President, fellow-delegates, the matter of who gets whose money has always been a very difficult question, whether at home, abroad, in organizations or in business. There are a few very cardinal and simple points we have to keep in mind. [63] Firstly, this matter has been thrashed out to the limit in the Administrative Commission; several votes were taken and the majority voted very clearly the way the report states. [64] Secondly, the matter of Provident Funds and Staff Pension Funds is probably one of the most confusing subjects that anybody can ever discuss. What we have here is a Provident Fund which was set up as a social security system for the employees of Unesco, pending the establishment of a permanent system. Unesco is now joining a permanent system which is part of the United Nations Pension plan and into which staff members may purchase a right. Now this fund is made up of seven per cent con- tributed by the Organization and seven per cent con- tributed bythe staff. This Fund, which is described as being the fund of the staff, is really a fund set up in the interests of all employees of the Organization. At present, if an employee wishes to leave the Organi- zation in good standing he is entitled to that money, according to the ruling of the Organization, as stated in document 6C/ADM/20, page 2. But keep in mind that, if members of the Secretariat are dis- charged they do not get their own seven per cent and they certainly do not get the seven per cent of Unesco. The situation as it exists at present is that they do not have any right to this money. [65] Now very briefly, with regard to the FAO, that Organization was recently transferred from Washington D.C. to Rome. As a result of that move, many of the employees left the Organization and the Secretariat was re-organized to such an
11-5 PLENARY extent that the sensible thing seemed to be to set up the Provident Fund and this Pension plan anew. Now, while we are talking about sister organizations, we should keep in mind that the Civil Aviation Organi- zation had exactly the same problem and followed exactly the same proposal as is put before you here. I regret, Mr. President, that I seem to be talking of the substance—as I am afraid that my predecessor, the honourable delegate of France did—while I should just be talking to the motion, but it seemed difficult to separate the two. I should like to urge strongly that this question should not be reopened but that this plenary meeting should follow the recommendations of the Administrative Commission and not rediscuss this very complicated and tedious subject. [66] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of the United States and I am going to ask the Deputy Director-General for a factual clarification of this point. [67] Mr. John TAYLOR (Deputy Director-General) — Mr. President, the factis that, according to legal advice we have on this point, any person who leaves Unesco, for whatever cause, is entitled to his share. Secondly, the statement just made concerning FAO is not quite accurate. The Executive Body of FAO returned half of the fund to its employees and reserved the other half of the fund for decision by the General Conference. [68] The PRESIDENT — I now call upon the delegate of Lebanon. [69] Mr. Charles DAOUD AMMOUN (Lebanon) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President and delegates, I should like to stress the purely juridical aspect of the discussion, as was done just now by the French delegate. [70] In the Administrative Commission's report there is a sentence, one part of which seems to me to settle the question. The Administrative Com- mission decided not to recommend the entire or partial reimbursement to staff members of “the sums standing to their credit” in the Provident Fund after they had joined the Pension Fund. There is therefore no doubt about the ownership of the Provident Fund; it belongs to the staff. [71] This being so, I consider that to make Unesco the depositary of these sums against the will of their owners, would be a violation of the most elementary principles of justice. In violating those principles we should also be violating the declared aims of Unesco, if now, after admitting that these sums stand to the credit of staff members, we tried to arrogate to ourselves the right to withhold them. [72] And why should we assert that right? Are we short of money? Do we wish to use this money МЕН Кс 200 for some other purpose than that for which it was set aside—that is, to pay staff members? I really do not see, in these circumstances, what legal pretext could be invoked for this decision. We might, in the interests of the Budget, declare that this money does not belong to the staff. Even to violate the written documents would be better than to fall into the flagrant contradiction expressed in this paragraph—to admit that this money stands to the credit of the staff, and then state that we intend to be its depositary, as though we were on the verge of bankruptcy, or as though we needed the money. Of our own accord we are casting a kind of suspicion on our financial management, and I think that from the legal point of view, strict etiquette re- quires us to hand over this money to the members of the staff, at any rate whenever the request is made. [73] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of the Lebanon. The delegate of Australia has re- quested the floor. [74] Mr. R. C. MILLS (Australia) — Mr. President, a good deal has been made of the fact that there was a majority in the Administrative Commission in favour of not handing this money over. In view of the fact that our delegation voted with the majority, I wish to report to you that, on further consider: ation, we are impressed with the strength of the ‚argument for handing over this money, which clearly belongs to the beneficiaries, and I propose, then, to support the motion moved by the delegate of Israel. It may be a simple view but we consider that there is no objection from the legal point of view and from the moral point of view there is every reason to do it. [75] The PRESIDENT — After hearing the last speaker on this topic, I suggest we now take a vote, in conformity with the procedure which the General Committee has recommended to us. [76] We have heard that this matter has been discussed not once but twice in the Administrative Commission. We have heard certain remarks by delegates on both sides, and we had the comments of the Rapporteur. I now ask Mr. Montagnier to read to you the actual motion presented by the delegates of Israel and France, and supported by Australia, and, by implication, the delegate of Lebanon. [77] Mr. MONTAGNIER — [Translation from the French] This is the wording of the French motion: The amounts standing to the individual credits of staff members in the Provident Fund can be handed over to them at once and the Fund liquidated. [78] The PRESIDENT You have heard the      T E ب ب ص ت ‎ T T — ] — — e j — — e n Ч о + = o E E T V E ] : vs N “201اربيعرباب motion. Will those in favour of the motion please hold up their boards indicating “yes”. I will now ask those who are opposed to the motion to hold up their delegation boards. Abstentions? The motion is adopted by a vote of 32 in favour, 9 opposed, and b abstentions. [79] We can now pass on to any other individual items of the report of the Administrative Com- mission, on which delegates wish to propose modi- fications or to differ from the conclusions expressed. The delegate of Belgium has asked to speak. [80] Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, delegates, I would like to suggest an addition to paragraph D, page 10 of document 6C/ADM/22, under the heading: D. Report of the Headquarters Committee 27 etc. These resolutions deal solely with the practical aspects of the construction of Unesco’s permanent headquarters, but we feel that from the juridical point of view it is essential to refer to the necessity of replacing the provisional agreement between the Organization and the French Government by a permanent agreement I therefore venture, Mr. Presi- dent and delegates, to suggest that the following words be added after “27. Construction of Permanent Headquarters”, on page 10 of document 6C/ADM/22: Considering that the French Government has granted Unesco the privileges and immunities necessary to the exercise of its functions by virtue of the provisional agreement concluded between the Organization and the French Government; Considering that it will be necessary to replace that agreement by a permanent agreement, in accordance with resolution 34.2, adopted by the General Conference at its Fourth Session; Considering, furthermore, that in a letter dated
23 June 1951 (doc. 6C/ADM/16 Annex 1), the French Government also offered to grant considerable financial facilities for the construction in Paris of the Organiza- tion’s permanent headquarters; and that the resolution shall continue thus: The General Conference Expresses its gratitude . . . in pursuance of the resolu- tions of the Fifth Session (etc., as on page 10). [81] The PRESIDENT — T thank the delegate of Belgium for. his remarks. Do other delegates wish to speak on this same item of the report of the Administrative Commission? I call upon the delegate of Venezuela. [82] Mr. ZÉREGA FOMBONA (Venezuela) — [Trans- lation from the French] Mr. President and delegates, I apologize for taking up your time for a moment, but do so merely in support of the Belgian proposal, which I entirely approve. [83] The PRESIDENT — I thank the delegate of Venezuela and will now ask the Rapporteur of the Administrative Commission for his comments: MEETINGS 15 [84] Mr. N. THEDIN (Sweden), Rapporteur of the Administrative Commission — Mr. President, I do not see that this additional proposal by the Belgian delegate in any way changes the substance of the recommendation of the Administrative Com- mission. [85] The PRESIDENT — MayI ask the Rapporteur of the Administrative Commission, whether, in fact, he considers that the Administrative Commission would object to the inclusion of the Belgian delegate’s proposal, supported by he delegate of Venezuela? [86] Mr. N. THEDIN (Sweden), Rapporteur of the Administrative Commission — No objection, Mr. President. T would therefore recommend this for adoption by the plenary meeting. [87] The PRESIDENT — I now ask delegates whether you wish to have a formal vote on this proposal or are you willing to accept it unanimously? I hear no objection. It is then adopted. [88] If there are no other items to be discussed individually, I think we may expedite our business if you are willing to approve the report as submitted to you by the Administrative Commission, with the two amendments which you have adopted this after- noon. I am informed that I have an additional speaker, the delegate of Italy. [89] Mr. de CLEMENTI (Italy) — [Translation from the French] Mr. President, gentlemen, the Italian delegation wishes to propose a slight amend- ment in the wording of the document which we are now studying, page 4, paragraph h., which deals with the percentage assessments of those Member States of Unesco who are not members of the United Nations. [90] Tt has been decided to suggest the creation of a Standing Committee of the General Conference to discuss, in the light of the recommendations of the United Nations Committee on Contributions, the per- centage assessments of new Member States. The task of this Committee, according to the docu- ment we are now studying, would be: To discuss . . . applications from Member States who wish to have their percentage assessments reviewed. We feel that instead of “to discuss applications” etc., it would be fairer to say “to discuss with the Member States concerned the question of their percentage assessments’. [91] I would remind you that the percentage assessments of those Member States of Unesco who are not members of the United Nations are based on the probable estimate of the United Nations Com- mittee on Contributions; they must be able to       —
11-15 PL ENARY discuss their assessment here at Unesco. I there- fore propose that the present wording of this para- graph should be amended and the last two lines replaced by the following phrase: “to discuss with the Member States concerned the question of their percentage assessments’. We do not see why a Member State should ask for a reduction of its assessment before having discussed it. I may add, in this connexion, that the gist of resolution 16.2, to which this paragraph refers, is as follows: the Standing Committee would be instructed to examine the percentage assessments made for new Member States, as well as methods of encouraging Member States to pay their contributions promptly. I suggest that a full stop be placed between these two phrases, for a State which has to discuss its assessment is not necessarily to be regarded as a State which may not pay its contributions. [92] The PRESIDENT — The proposal of the delegate of Ttaly is seconded by the delegates of Lebanon, Costa Rica and Monaco. I should like to ask the Rapporteur what his comments are on this proposal. [93] Mr. N. THEDIN (Sweden), Rapporteur of the Administrative Commission — Mr. President, may I first make a small correction to the statement made by the honourable delegate of Italy. You will find the correction in the corrigendum. It is not a question of a Standing Committee but just of a Committee on Contributions. When we discussed this matter, it was clearly understood, and it is mentioned in the summary records, that relevant data should in good time be communicated to such States as wish to have their percentage assessments reviewed. I therefore find that the proposal by the delegate of Ttaly is in full conformity with the text adopted in the Administrative Commission, and I have no objections to it. [94] The PRESIDENT — I now ask whether the plenary meeting approves the proposal made by the delegate of Ttaly and supporied by the delegates of Lebanon and other countries. If there is no objection I declare this proposal adopted. Adopted. [95] If there are no further items in the report of the Administrative Commission to which delegates wish to address themselves at this point, I now propose to you the adoption of the report of the Administrative Commission as modified by us in three particulars. [96] In the first instance, we have modified para- graph 15, page 8 by the adoption of the motion put forward by Israel and seconded by France. [97] In the second instance, we have modified paragraph 27.1 of Annex I, on the motion of Belgium, supported by Venezuela. MEETINGS N 202 [98] We have now finally agreed to adopt the wording just suggested by Italy in respect of point 8, page 4, and in respect of resolution 16.2. Are we all clear on those points? In that case, I now ask whether there are any objections to the adoption of the report of the Administrative Com- mission as so amended? T hear no objections and I therefore declare that we have approved the report of the Administrative Commission as amended, and I express our thanks to its able Chairman, Mr. van der Straten-Waillet and to the Rapporteur, Mr. Thedin, of the Swedish delegation. [99] I should now like to call upon the Chairman of our Nominations Committee, Dr. Mañach, for a proposal regarding the membership of the Head- quarters Committee. [100] Mr. MANACH, Chairman of Nominations Committee — [Translation from the Spanish] Mr. President and fellow-delegates, during its meeting of 9 July, the Nominations Committee received a communication informing it that the Headquarters Committee, at present consisting of seven members, had proposed to the General Confer- ence that its membership be increased to 10. The Nominations Committee agreed unanimously that, should the General Conference adopt the recommen- dation by the Administrative Commission to increase the size of the Headquarters Committee, the addi- tional members should be representatives of Italy, Japan and Peru. [101] The PRESIDENT — I thank the Chairman of the Nominations Committee. As he indicated to you in his report, the Nominations Committee was acting conditionally. By the action you have just taken in approving the report of the Administrative Commission, you have agreed that the number of members of the Headquarters Committee should be increased from seven to ten. Do you accept the proposal of the Nominations Committee for the addition of Italy, Japan and Peru to the existing seven members? If there are no objections, I shall consider that we have adopted this proposal. Adopted. Presentation and Adoption of the Report of the Programme Commission. [102] The PRESIDENT — I now ask the Rapporteur of the Programme Commission, Mr. Gabriel of the delegation of Haiti, to present his Report. [103] Mr. GABRIEL JEAN-FRANCOIS (Haiti)— [Translation from the French] Mr. President, dele- gates, the Programme Commission, which was — у — [ o p r , r o — s e e r — ] ] ] — . a i ] ] + — _ р   thd thd na all   — — e ì e t e t e . — S e o n e n > > * — — | v e
203 PLENARY appointed on 19 June at the Fourth Plenary Meeting of the General Conference, held 17 meetings between
22 June and 6 July 1951. It had as its Chairman Professor Jean Piaget, the well-known psychologist, as its Vice-Chairmen Messrs. Sharif (Pakistan) and Castro Leal (Mexico), and as its Rapporteur, Mr. Em. Gabriel Jean-François (Haiti). [104] In the course of its proceedings, the Com- mission discussed the 148 draft resolutions contained in the grey book, document 6C/5 (T) (Nos. 1.1 to
9.28 inclusive), and the suggestions for further resolutions and amendments submitted by the delegations of Member States and by the Executive Board. [105] The chief task of this Commission was to wield the axe, the Director-General having suggested that it should:
(1) make cuts of nine per cent in the budget estimate of every resolution in the Programme;
(2) make reductions amounting to 2.38 per cent by a general revision of the Programme, making allowance for the order of priority established by the Conference. [106] This suggestion, made by the Director- General in the light of wisdom and of administrative experience, called forth protests from several dele- gations, which considered that each resolution should be discussed on its merits and the sum to be allocated to it decided in the same way. The Commission adopted this view. [107] To assist it in its considerable task, and to enable certain delicate questions of a technical nature to be discussed by small groups of delegates, the Commission set up six working parties to study the following points:
(1) the Natural Science programme;
(2) the creation of a world network of inter- national Centres for Fundamental Education;
(3) youth activities;
(4) economic and social rights;
(5) the grouping of Member States according to region;
(6) educational assistance to the children of Palestine. [108] The Commission also set up a drafting committee to draw up such of the resolutions in the Programme as had been amended at the various meetings, as well as new resolutions submitted by delegations. This Committee, which consisted of Mrs. Potter Russell (United States), Mr. Cowell (United Kingdom), Mr. François (France), Mr. Castro Leal (Mexico) and the Commission's Rapporteur (Haiti), worked at high pressure from
3 to 7 July, before the meetings of the various Com- missions, and got through a great deal. [109] The Drafting Committee's suggestion is to be found in the annexed document, 6C/PRG/34. This document consists of two parts; Part I contains all the resolutions that were approved without alter- MEETINGS 11-15 ation, the amended resolutions and the new resolu- tions, and also mentions resolutions which were rejected; Part II contains only a model declaration on the protection of cultural assets in the course of armed conflict. [110] At the meeting held this morning, the Pro- gramme Commission adopted a mew resolution submitted by the Italian delegation—No. 6C/DR/87 (rev.). [111] Recommendations
(1) It is recommended that the document which constitutes the Programme shall in future be im- proved by attaching thereto the detailed budget estimates for each project.
(2) Tt seems desirable that the delegations should submit in writing their amendments to resolutions and suggestions for new resolutions; that would avoid any risk of imprecision during the discuss- ions, would greatly help the Drafting Committee, the Rapporteur, the Secretary and the minute- writers, and, above all, would enable the delegations to study all new suggestions beforehand.
(3) The Programme Commission recommends ° the General Conference to adopt document 6C/ PRG/34. It asks the Conference to authorize the Director-General to amend in the final edition, if necessary, the lay-out of documents and the numbers of resolutions relating to the Programme of the Or- ganization. [112] The PRESIDENT — I thank the Rapporteur of the Programme Commission and, in the absence of our able Chairman of the Programme Com- mission, Professor Piaget, you will agree that the work of this Commission has been ably summarized and presented by the Rapporteur, Mr. Gabriel. Do any delegates wish to speak on any individual item presented in the Report of the Programme Com- mission? [113] TI shall then ask whether we may take the four recommendations of the Programme Commission itself, to be found on pages 5 and 6 of the document. I should like the General Conference to note each of these recommendations as our method of giving formal approval to the work done. [114] The first one deals with the improvement of the programme document. Is there any objection to this specific recommendation? If not, I will consider that we have approved it. [115] Let us now take the second recommendation (page 5 of the Programme Commission Report), dealing with the submission of amendments to resolutions, and new resolutions, in writing. Is there any objection to the adoption of this recommen- dation of the Report of the Programme Com- mission? If not, it is adopled. [116] The General Conference is merely required to note the third recommendation. T take it that there is no objection.
11-16 PLENARY [117] Finally, the last recommendation of the Programme Commission is the adoption of the main report (document 6C/PRG/34), showing the reso- lutions which were adopted unchanged by the Pro- gramme Commission and the wording of the amended resolutions and new resolutions. The Conferenceis also requested to authorize the Director- General, if necessary, to change the lay-out of docu- ments and the number of resolutions relating to the Organization’s programme in the final edition of the Conference's decisions. This appears to me to be a normal and reasonable way to proceed. MayI then ask whether there is any objection to the adoption of the fourth and final recommendation of the Programme Commission? I hear none and therefore will rule that we have approved the four MEETINGS 204 — recommendations of the Programme Commission. [118] On behalf of this General Conference, I should very much like to express our appreciation to Professor Piaget, to his excellent Vice-Chairmen, Mr. Sharif of Pakistan, H.E. Mr. Castro Leal of Mexico, and to our Rapporteur, Mr. Gabriel. We all know how heavy a burden they have carried for us. [119] We have now completed our agenda for this afternoon. Tomorrow, we still have to consider the report of the Procedure Committee, the report of the Budget Committee, and several additional resolutions. The meeting rose at 5.07 p.m. SIXTEENTH PLENARY MEETING Wednesday, 11 July 1951, at 10 a.m. President: Mr. HOwLAND Sargeant (United States of America) CONTENTS Statement by the delegate of the United Kingdom on the report of the Official and External Relations Commission Speech by the observer for the Vatican E | Adoption of a resolution on programmepriorities for 1953 and 1954. Presentation and adoption of the second report of the Budget Committee Presentation and adoption of the second report of the Procedure Committee Statement by the Delegate of the Kingdom. United [1] The PRESIDENT — This morning I have as the first item on our Agenda a brief report to the Conference by the delegate of the United Kingdom, and I ask Mr. Hardman if he will come forward. [2] Mr. D. HARDMAN (United Kingdom) — Mr. President and fellow-delegates, I ask your per- mission to make a statement about one of the reso- lutions in the report of the Official and External Relations Commission, which I should have made yesterday büt for the fact that I was broadcasting about the work of this Conference when that report was taken. This statement from the United King- dom delegation refers to the resolution contained in the Report of the Official and External Relations Commission. It is as follows: [3] The United Kingdom regrets that it is forced to abstain from the vote approving the resolutions adopted by the General Conference on the report of the Official and External Relations Commission under Item 10.5.2. The draft resolution says in its operative paragraph, numbered 1, that the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organi- zation will furnish emergency assistance upon the request of the General Assembly. That is to say, the power of decision as to whether or not action should be taken by Unesco in any instance would rest with the Assembly. Under the Uniting for Peace Resolution, to which the resolution refers, the