OFFICIAL AND EXTERNAL R'EL'A TTONS SIXTH MEETING Monday, 2 July 1951, at 4.30 p.m. Chairman: Mr. H. Zeiss (Austria), later: Mr. F. G. Mamerx (Italy) Consideration of Formal Agreements Concluded with Certain International Non-Governmental Organizations (Item 10.7.2 of the Agenda) (document 6C/OXR/12, Addenda I and II). [1] Mr. SOMMERFELT (Representative of the Ex- ecutive Board), referring to Addendum I, said that the Executive Board had been unable to accede to the request of the International Council for Philosophy and Humanistic Studies for the maintenance of an article in the agreement with that organization [document 6C/OXR/12, Addendum I, section (a)], since it considered that the functions described fell within the normal activities of Unesco. Section (b) of the same addendumindicated a number of small practical changes to be made in the agreements. [2] Addendum II embodied the recommendations of the Board. [3] Mr. de CLEMENTI (Italy) thought the report should be approved. He wished, however, to point out to the Executive Board that it would be desirable for non-governmental organizations that had been granted consultative status by Unesco to give all organizations interested in the same questions the possibility of taking a more active share in their work. He would like it to be firmly stated as a principle that organizations which received subventions from Unesco were not only entitled, but in duty bound, to admit to their ranks all who showed a wish to co-operate with them. [4] Mr. SOMMERFELT (Representative of the Ex- ecutive Board) agreed with the principle enunciated by the Italian delegate. The International Council for Philosophy and Humanistic Studies was con- stantly enlarging its circle of collaborators and he was sure that the other organizations were doing the same. [6] Mr. de CLEMENTI (Italy), thanked Mr. Sommerfelt for his explanation, but said that what had inspired his own remarks was the rejection of the suggestion that organizations which had not been granted consultative status with Unesco should be allowed to attend the Conference of non-govern- mental organizations, as observers not entitled to vote. That suggestion had been rejected on the ground that it was incompatible with the Rules of Procedure of the Conference of non-governmental organizations. [6] Mr. de Clementi felt that Unesco should make every effort to attract all those who were interested in its work, and suggested that, for that purpose, an alteration of the regulations might be considered, with a view to associating the greatest possible number of subsidiary bodies with the implementa- tion of the programme. [7] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations Service) explained that the Director-General, wishing to leave the non-governmental organizations as free as possible in their work, had refrained from intervening at the meeting held just before the current session of the General Conference. Although it had been impossible to accept the recommendation mentioned by the Italian delegate, since it was not in accordance with the prevailing procedure, a number of representatives of non-governmental organizations which had not been granted consul- tative status with Unesco had been able to attend the meeting, and the Secretariat would, furthermore, make a point of transmitting the findings of the Conference to the very numerous organizations with which Unesco had informal relations. [8] Mr. de CLEMENTI (Italy) urged that a re- commendation should be made, not in his name, but in that of the whole Official and External Relations Commission. [9] The Commission decided to make a recommen- dation on the lines suggested by the Italian delegate. [10] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations Service), referring to sub-paragraph (e) of Annex Il to document 6C/OXR/12, reminded the meeting that Unesco’s agreements with non-governmental organi- zations were renewed from year to year. They were concluded under the authority of the Executive Board, and ratified by the General Conference, which instructed the Director-General to renew them for the following period. Mr. de Blonay explained that, In accordance with the Directives given at the previous Session, those agreements were valid until 31 December 1951; they should, therefore, be renewed from 1 January 1952, for one year, as recommended by the Executive Board. | | | | ؤ | | | | | | |
421 EET TAY AND [11] Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) suggested that, as the agreements lapsed, they should be renewed in less elaborate language and made as uni- form as possible. [12] Mr. SOMMERFELT (Representative of the Ex- ecutive Board) said that the Executive Board had borne that point in mind and would continue to direct its efforts towards greater simplicity and uniformity. [13] Mr. CATES (United States of America) stated he had several comments to make on points of detail, such as the omission of the specific reference to a “senior representative” of the Director-General to attend meetings of non-governmental organizations. In general, he approved all the agreements. [14] Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) shared the United Kingdom delegate’s view. He suggested that a general clause should be inserted in all agreements to the effect that the agreement had been drawn up in accordance with the Directives concerning relations with international non-governmental or- ganizations adopted by the General Conference at its Fifth Session (document 5C/Resolutions pp. 121-
28). He made that suggéstion in order to ensure that the executives of the non-governmental organi- zations were aware of the obligations which their organizations incurred by accepting Unesco subven- tions. He formally moved the inclusion of such a clause in the agreements when they were renewed the following year. [15] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations Service) said, in reply to the United States delegate, that the Executive Board had gone into the matter and that the necessary change would be made. [16] In reply to the United Kingdom delegate, he said that the Director-General had negotiated with the seven organizations concerned with a view to achieving greater simplicity and uniformity in the agreements. As a result of those negotiations, the agreements were more uniform than in previous years. Every effort would be made to achieve a higher degree or standardization in future. [17] Mr. de Blonay assured the Australian dele- gate that each agreement contained a specific refer- ence to the Directives concerning relations with International non-governmental organizations, both in the preamble and in the article on subventions. He was sure that the Director-General would draw the attention of the executives of non-governmental organizations to the fact that any organization accepting a Unesco subvention thereby incurred an obligation to assume an increasing share of the financial responsibility for activities originally financed by subvention. EX TERN AT KET Yong VI-6 [18] Mr. motion. [19] Referring to Addendum I, section (b), he wondered whether, in viewof the principles set forth in the Directives, it was Unesco’s normal practice to give one year’s notice of termination. CUMMINS (Australia) withdrew his [20] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations Service) explained that a mere four months’ notice of termination might seriously dislocate the work of certain organizations, such as the International Council of Scientific Unions, whose programme of activities had always been prepared well in advance, and which had made representations on the subject. The Executive Board had appreciated the Council’s point and had decided to recommend that the General Conference should accede to ICSU's request. [21] Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) declared himself satisfied with the explanation given. [22] The Commission then approved document
6C/OXR/12, with the amendments contained in Addenda I and II. Consideration of Recommendations Submitted to the General Conference by the Second Con- ference of Non-Governmental Organizations Admitted to Consultative Status with Unesco (Item 10.7.4 of the Agenda) (document
6C/OXR/14). [23] Mr. FOURNIER (President of the Conference of International Non-Governmental Organizations) recalled that the very encouraging results achieved at Florence in 1950 had led the international non- governmental organizations to express the wish to hold a second Conference in 1951. The Agenda of the second Conference, which had been held just before Unesco’s General Conference, had dealt, on the one hand, with relations between Unesco and the non-governmental organizations and, on the other, with four items in Unesco’s programme whose implementation seemed, to all the organizations represented, to be particularly desirable: action in the service of Human Rights; fundamental education; removal of obstacles to the free flow of information and to the exchange of persons; possibility for the national branches of non-governmental organi- zations to co-operate with the National Commissions and with technical committees. [24] Mr. Fournier pointed out that some of the resolutions concerned not only the Official and Ex- ternal Relations Commission, but also other Com- missions and certain of the specialized Working Parties which had been set up by Unesco. [25] In his commentary on the nine resolutions adopted by the Conference, Mr. Fournier explained    VI-6 ОО А that it had been considered that the last two para- graphs of the Preamble to the Directives concerning relations with non-governmental organizations showed a certain lack of confidence, which appeared to be quite unjustified. Although the Directives, as a whole, could be altered only every three years, the Conference had thought it advisable to ask the Gen- eral Conference to reconsider, at its current Session, that point of detail, which formed the subject of Resolution I. [26] The Conference of non-governmental organi- zations also wished to draw Unesco’s attention to the fact that the delegates of certain non-governmental organizations whose headquarters were situated at a distance from Paris, were prevented, by financial considerations, from attending the meetings of those organizations. In its Resolution II, it asked for Unesco’s assistance in order to enable a larger number of organizations to take part in the meetings. [27] Referring to Resolution HI, Mr. Fournier said that in most cases the non-governmental organi- zations were unable to send Unesco their written observations on the preliminary drafts of the pro- gramme, since those drafts reached them too late. [28] Resolution IV suggested that Unesco should arrange for meetings between certain specialized non-governmental organizations and the services in the Secretariat which dealt with the same questions. [29] Resolution V asked for the establishment of a reserve fund for the use of the non-governmental organizations. [30] In Resolution VI, the non-governmental or- ganizations had wished to express their special interest in the preparation of a Scientific and Cultural History of Mankind. They hoped the Commission entrusted with that task would allow them to submit their views on the subject. [31] Resolution VII was inspired by the wish to stress the special interest taken by the non-govern- mental organizations in the defence of cultural rights. [32] Resolution VIII expressed the desire of the non-governmental organizations to be invited to attend regional conferences, whenever those organi- zations were particularly active in the regions concerned. [33] Finally, in Resolution IX, the Conference had expressed the desire it had most at heart: that a third Conference might be convened in 1952. [34] Mr. Fournier described the excellent results achieved thanks to the 1950 Conference, and wished, in that connexion, to thank the Commissions and the Unesco Secretariat for their careful consideration of the resolutions adopted at that first Conference, and for the manner in which they had been acted upon. He felt sure that the second Conference would be as fruitful of results as the first, for the sharing of the ideals and aspirations of 61 organizations, re- presenting a large section of public opinion, made EX TE RIN AT RELATE os 422 a most felicitous contribution to that international understanding which Unesco was essentially designed to achieve. In conclusion, Mr. Fournier expressed the hope that co-operation between Unesco and the international non-governmental organizations would become increasingly active, and would find ex- pression in resolutions and practical action by the General Conference of Unesco. [85] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations Service) observed that most of the resolutions contained in document 6C/OXR/14 directly or in- directly affected Unesco’s programme. He suggested that the document should be referred to the Pro- gramme Commission, which could then take it into consideration so far as possible. [36] Speaking of the action which might, in his opinion, be taken to implement the various re- solutions, Mr. de Blonay said that, unless the Com- mission wished the first resolution to be considered at once, the Director-General might follow it up by reporting on the subject to the next session of the General Conference. [37] The request made in the second resolution should, Mr. de Blonay thought, be examined in the light of the relations between the various Depart- ments of Unesco and those Organizations whose activity covered the same ground. [38] The recommendation contained in the third resolution would certainly be taken into consider- ation by the Director-General when it was trans- mitted to him by the Commission. [39] The fourth resolution was rather a matter for the Programme Commission, since the meetings it proposed would be devoted to particular aspects of the programme. [40] The fifth resolution was of a more delicate nature, and Mr. de Blonay doubted whether that re- commendation could be followed up immediately, though it might be considered by the General Con- ference, with a view to the subsequent passing of a resolution. [41] The substance of the sixth resolution might be communicated by the Director-General to the Commission entrusted with the preparation of a Scientific and Cultural History of Mankind. [42] The wish expressed in the seventh resolution deserved the special attention of the Programme Commission. [43] The eighth resolution would have to be sub- mitted to the Executive Board, whose task it was to draw up the list of representatives to attend the various regional conferences. 1 [44] Finally, with regard to the last resolution, Mr. de Blonay thought it would be advisable for the Official and External Relations Commission to submit to the General Conference a resolution authorizing the Director-General to convene, and to facilitate by the provision of technical services, 2
423 OE ETC EAS END third Conference of international non-governmental organizations, immediately before the Seventh Session of the General Conference. [45] Mr. de CLEMENTI (ltaly) proposed that Mr. de Blonay's suggestion regarding the first re- solution should be adopted, and that a decision on that point should be postponed until the next session of the General Conference. [46] Referring to the third resolution, Mr. de Clementi said that in his opinion Unesco required the co-operation of the non-governmental organi- zations only in carrying out its programme, and not in preparing the preliminary drafts. He agreed in principle with the other resolutions. [47] Mr. COWELL(United Kingdom) submitted a number of points for the attention of the Commission in deciding upon the course of action to be adopted. The Commission had first to form an opinion on the value of the resolutions approved by the Confer- ence of non-governmental organizations, and to decide whether the Conference had been worth while. Without wishing to appear hostile, but purely with a viewto stimulating a useful discussion of the resolutions, Mr. Cowell submitted that the said resolutions were either so general as to seem useless to the average reader or apparently con- cerned with activities already covered. For instance, Resolution V dealt with a matter which had been discussed at length at more than one session of the General Conference, and in each case the General Conference had decided against the constitution of a reserve fund. [48] With regard to Resolution III, Mr. Cowell was aware of the value to Unesco of the collaboration of non-governmental organizations but he felt, with the Italian delegate, that they had ample opportunity to play their part in the formulation of Unesco’s programme through their national branches and the National Commissions. [49] Before taking a decision, the Commission should be informed how far the resolutions fulfilled a real need, how far they involved new demands on the Secretariat, and to what extent they would re- quire new budgetary commitments. Mr. Cowell therefore suggested that the Commission should either ask for that information to be submitted to a later meeting or should refer the resolutions to the Executive Board for report at the Seventh Session of the General Conference. [60] Mr. CATES (United States of America) agreed with the Italian and United Kingdom delegates on Resolution III. [51] With regard to Resolution I, he felt obliged to oppose any amendment to the Directives after an experience of one year only. He would also oppose the suggestion made in Resolution V. Resolution III appeared to be helpful, but he hoped that it would ERSTE RNАНА ТО Кв VI-6 be related to the last paragraph of the preamble to the Directives (document 5C/Resolutions, page 121). The United States delegation deeply appreciated the interest taken by non-governmental organizations in matters of Human Rights and welcomed Re- solution VII. [62] Mr. EUSTATHIADES (Greece) paid tribute to the efforts of the non-governmental organizations. He urged the Commission to decide how far it wished those organizations to be associated with the various parts of Unesco’s programme. As the United Kingdom delegate had said, the best way of strengthening such association would seem to be through the National Commissions. Mr. Eustathiades added that, if the Commission approved the substance of Resolutions II and V, they would have to be referred to the Budget Committee. He thought the co-operation of the non-governmental organizations would be of service in the sphere of cultural rights (Resolution VII) and suggested that the Commission should approve the principle of that co-operation without laying down conditions for it. [63] In conclusion, Mr. Eustathiades pointed out that most of the resolutions were couched somewhat vaguely, and suggested that, that being so, the Commission should take only general decisions con- cerning them, and should request the Executive Board to prepare more definite recommendations. [64] Mr. MASON (New Zealand) said that all the resolutions tended in varying degrees to go against the last paragraph of the preamble to the Directives. Resolutions II, IV, V, VIII and IX made calls not only upon the energy and time of the Secre- tariat but also upon the budget of the Organization. With regard to Resolution III, he fully agreed with the delegates of the United Kingdom and Italy; if the Secretariat required advice on any particular point, it could, on its own initiative, approach the non-governmental organization best fitted to give it the necessary information. [65] Mr. Mason therefore supported the suggestion of the United Kingdom and Greek delegates. [56] Mr. de CLEMENTI supported the suggestion that the whole group of resolutions should be referred to the Executive Board, which could then report on them to the next session of the General Conference. [57] Mr. de ALBA (Mexico) commended the docu- ment submitted to the Conference by the non-govern- mental organizations, which was of great value, sug- gesting a wide range of possible means by which the Director-General of Unesco could avail himself to à greater extent of their co-operation. The recommen- dations put forward were an encouraging effort to give practical effect to the existing agreements. [68] Mr. de Alba went on to say that, if the       VI-6 ОКО НА АЛК Universal Declaration of Human Rights had not been supported by the non-governmental organizations, its terms would still remain merely Utopian. It was those organizations which, by their continual efforts, had created in the different countries an atmosphere favourable to inter-governmental agreement. The non-governmental organizations could give valuable help to Unesco in the great task that still remained to be done. [69] For that reason Mr. de Alba thought that their suggestions should not be received with indifference but, on the contrary, deserved to be encouraged. Co-operation between the organizations and the National Commissions should also be fostered, as had been suggested by the United Kingdom represen- tative. [60] Mr. de Alba concluded by saying that if it were decided to submit the resolutions to the next session of the General Conference, the Official and External Relations Commission should at least agree upon some form of public tribute to the disinterested attitude and the laudable aspirations of the non- governmental organizations, without prejudice to the subsequent elaboration of a suitable Statute for them. [61] Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) said that the closeness of the collaboration between the non- governmental organizations and Unesco could be readily appreciated from the numbers of represen- tatives from such organizations attending meetings. [62] Mr. Cummins felt that the reason for the general terms of the resolutions adopted by the Con- ference of non-governmental organizations lay in their representation at the Conference. The dele- gates were, for the most part, executive Secretaries of their organizations and so were able to express opinions on administrative matters but were in no way qualified to commit their organizations in pro- gramme matters. [63] Mr. Cummins would strongly support the reference of the resolutions to the Director-General, for report at the following session of the General Conference. [64] Mr. LUCET (France) thought it would be difficult to arrive at an immediate decision on the resolutions. Several of them had budgetary implications which would require careful consider- ation. [65] On the question of co-operation between non- governmental organizations and National Com- missions, Mr. Lucet thought it was for the States themselves to consult their National Commissions with a view to strengthening that co-operation. [66] Mr. Lucet thought it would be desirable for future meetings of the non-governmental organi- zations to be held a few weeks before the session of Unesco’s General Conference, as the Commission would then have time to make a more thorough study of the resolutions submitted to it. ENEE RNAL- RELATIONS [67] Mr. FOURNIER (President of the Conference of International Non-Governmental Organizations) pointed out that the Conferences held in 1950 and
1951 could not be regarded as a waste of time, and that the work done there deserved at least to be called disinterested, as the Mexican delegate had pointed out. [68] Mr. Fournier thought that the discussion to which the resolutions had given rise was a clear indication that they were quite definite in character, and he was sorry the Commission should think of posiponing their consideration. He asked for an immediate decision to be taken, at least in respect of the last resolution—the convening of a third Con- ference in 1952. He stressed that the non-govern- mental organizations were not a group of national federations, and that their co-operation could not, therefore, be confined within purely national limits, as had been suggested. Annual meetings were, he thought, indispensable; the principle had been admitted by the Economic and Social Council, which each year arranged a meeting of the organizations to which it had granted consultative status. Mr. Fournier urged that the last resolution should be considered by the Commission and referred to the General Conference. [69] The CHAIRMAN suggested that 11. request might be met by approving Resolution IX, while the other eight resolutions were referred to the Executive Board. [70] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations Service) said that, apart from a sum of $500 in the budget of the External Relations Service for the Standing Committee on Non-Governmental Organi- zations, there was no separate appropriation for the Conference of Non-Governmental Organizations. The Secretariat provided certain facilities, but no per diem or travel allowances were paid to delegates. In reply to the CHAIRMAN, Mr. de Blonay added that there would be no need to refer the matter to the Programme Commission for special consider- ation, as the provision in the estimates had been made in the previous year. [71] [72] Mr. CHANDIRAMANI (India) asked whether Unesco did not. provide indirectly for travel and per diem of delegates to the Conference by granting a subvention. [73] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations Service) said that the purposes for which subventions could be used were defined in the Directives and that, before a subvention was granted, detailed plans for its use were carefully examined by the Executive Board. So far as he knew the Board had never approved the use of subventions for the purpose to which the Indian delegate had referred.
495 OFF TAT A NY ET EEN Sn ETL A Taro VI-7 [74] Mr. MASON (New Zealand) moved the adoption of a resolution in the following terms: The General Conference, Taking note of the value of the work of the non- governmental organizations and of the value of their collaboration with Unesco, (a) Refers resolutions I to VIII, submitted in docu- ment 6C/OXR/14, to the Executive Board for report to the Seventh Session of the General Conference, and (b) Refers resolution IX, submitted in document
6C/OXR/14, to the Executive Board for its decision. [75] The ‘resolution was unanimously adopted. The meeting rose at 7 p.m. SEVENTH MEETING Wednesday, } July 1951, at 10 a.m. Chairman: Mr. F. G. Mameri (Italy) Communication by the Chairman. [1] The CHAIRMAN announced that Japan and Cambodia had officially accepted the Unesco Consti- tution and consequently their delegations would have full voting rights. Application of the Directives concerning Rela- tions with International Non-Governmental Organizations (document 6C/OXR/16). [2] Mr. SOMMERFELT (Representative of the Ex- ecutive Board) explained that the amendment pro- posed in the last paragraph of the document was designed to meet the difficulty outlined in para- graph (3) on page 2. [3] Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) asked what had been the experience with regard to the frequency of requests from non-governmental organizations for approval of a change of programme. [4] Mr. SOMMERFELT (Representative of the Ex- ecutive Board) said that quite a number of such requests had been received. The representative of the Director-General might be in a better position to give details. [5] Mr. CATES (United States of America) was in favour of maintaining the Directives already in force with regard to non-governmental organizations. They had been in existence barely a year. He had not heard any evidence to justify any particular change. [6] Mr. SOMMERFELT (Representative of the Ex- ecutive Board) explained that the change had been proposed in order to avoid any possible misuse of subventions. [7] Mr. CUMMINS (Australia), with reference to the text which it was proposed should replace para- graph 6 of Section III.E. (document 6C/OXR/16, page 2), said he did not see any mention of the point which had engaged the attention of the Working Party at the Florence Conference on which he had served, namely, that if an organization received a subvention which was not entirely utilized during the course of the year, the surplus would be taken into consideration when a new subvention was applied for. He therefore proposed the following addition, at the end of the proposed new paragraph in question: Any funds approved as being carried forward shall be taken into consideration if a subvention is applied for or granted during the following year. [8] Mr. de BLONAY (Head, External Relations Service) pointed out the difficulty which faced the Executive Board in permitting subventions granted for a given year to be used at the beginning of the following year. For instance, if a subvention was granted to an organization for 1952, the decision was taken by the Executive Board in October 1951; but it was only at the beginning of 1952, say in January or February, that the Organization could inform the Board that any funds remained over from the preceding year. Any surplus would have to be carried over the second year following the granting of a subvention. [9] Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium) rémarked that A Z T A p e П О ي ج д‏ е е أ [ ‎