IV-5 PROGRAMME own time. ment. He therefore agreed to revise the docu- [116] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL thought that the United States first proposal contained excellent points which could be taken up again in the second docu- ment. The Commission should pledge itself, by an immediate vote, to shoulder its responsibilities. [117] Mr. CAIN (France) noted that there was general agreement on the substance of the problem. In view of the different interpretations of the United States proposal, it was desirable that the Executive Board should consider it, in order to throw further light on the problem. Mr. Cain was convinced that, after studying the Board's report and on the basis of its suggestions, the Commission would be able to take a unanimous decision the following day. On the merits of the question, Mr. Cain supported the Director-General’s assertion: it was for the Confer- ence itself to establish the programme and priorities within it. [118] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL asked the United States delegate to present his resolution, revised in the light of the debate, to the Commission at its next meeting. He proposed that the Board should be con- vened only if the Commission failed to agree on the new text. [119] Speaking as a memberof the Executive Board, Mr. SEYDOUX (France) recalled that all new resolu- COMM 15 S T'ON tions should be handed in within the prescribed time- limit and submitted to the Executive Board for its opinion. So that, even if the United States delega- tion produced a new version of its resolution, which the French delegation supported in principle, the Ex- ecutive Board would still have to express its views on it. He wished to know the opinion of the representative of the Executive Board on that point. [120] The CHAIRMAN proposed the immediate adoption of the United Nations text (document 6C/ PRG/2), upon which the Commission would base its work; at the end of the session, the United States delegation could present a new resolution, already studied by the Executive Board and applying to the continuation of the Commission’s work. [121] Mr. VERNIERS (Representative of the Ex- ecutive Board) urged again that the Board be con- vened at once, not to draw up a list of priorities, but to exercise its right to study any new proposal submitted to the Conference. [122] As it had been agreed that the United States proposal required modification, the CHAIRMAN thought it unnecessary for the Board to study it. He again proposed the adoption of document 6C/PRG/2. [123] Document 6C/PRG/2 was adopted. The meeting rose at 17 p.m. FIFTH MEETING Thursday, 28 June 1951, at 3.30 p.m. Chairman: Mr. Jean PraceT (Switzerland) Discussion of the Draft Programme for 1952 (continuation) [document 6C/5 (1)]. Education (continuation). YourH MovEMENTS AND ORGANIZATIONS. Item 1.841. [1] The CHAIRMAN called for a vote on item 1.341 (Measures to encourage the activities of youth organi- zations and movements which promote the develop- ment of international relationships). The item in- volved no special expenditure. [2] Item 1.341 was adopted. [3] The CHAIRMAN next submitted an amend- ment (document 6C/DR/39), submitted by the French delegation, as a supplement to that resolu- tion. [4] The amendment, which had no budgetary im- plications, read as follows:       — _ — T Í т е н и н И
293 PROGRAMME To encourage the establishment of International Youth Cities, to be set up in the capitals and, if possible, the other pricipal towns in their countries. Such International Youth Cities should be:
(1) Centres for the accommodation of young people travelling abroad.
(2) Centres of culture, where young people wishing to get to know a foreign country will find introductory information in the shape of books, reproductions of works of art, films and gramophone records.
(3) Centres for international contacts, where young foreigners can get to know each other and form friend- ships, especially with young people of the host country. [5] Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) supported that amendment, which was adopted as item 1.341 (a). Item 1.342. [6] The CHAIRMAN opened the discussion on item 1.342 (Measures to be taken to encourage, especially by regional courses, the training of leaders in the international activities of youth movements and organizations). [7] The Working Party had recommended that the text of that resolution should be amended as follows: The Director-General is authorized, in co-operation with the interested Member States and competent international organizations, to encourage international training courses organized by youth movements, or, if need be, to organize such courses, in order to enable the leaders of youth movements to study the international problems connected with, and activities directed towards, a better understanding between peoples. [8] Mr. van der STRATEN-WAILLET (Bel- gium) supported that amendment. There was an important question of principle involved, connected with the rules of co-operation to which it was Unesco's duty to adhere, especially as regarded youth organizations. It was important to dispel false impressions, and to show those organizations that Unesco had no wish to compete with them. [9] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL agreed: there should be free and generous co-ordination, as urged by the Executive Board. Youth organizations should be reassured and convinced that Unesco's help was proffered in that spirit. [10] Mr. BENÍTEZ (United States of America) drew attention to the importance of bringing the youth programme into line with the major themes of Unesco’s programme: fundamental education and technical assistance. His delegation supported item
1.342. [11] Ttem 1.342 was adopted in the form proposed COMMISSION IV-5 by the Working Party. The sum of $20,400 for that resolution was approved. Item 1.343. [12] The CHAIRMAN opened the discussion on item 1.343 (Measures to be taken to foster the edu- cational activities of youth movements and organi- zations which will develop the sense of the intel- lectual and moral solidarity of mankind). [13] The Working Party had recommended that the text of that item should be amended as follows: to develop, through international work camps and international youth organizations in general, the edu- cational activities of youth movements and organizations which will develop the sense of the intellectual and moral solidarity of mankind. [14] Ttem 1.343 was adopted in the form proposed by the Working Party. [15] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu- cation) said that, if the Commission felt it necessary to make a reduction, he would suggest postponing the training course in camp leadership in the Middle East, thus saving $2,000 in respect of fees. Six thousand dollars could be saved on the purchase of publications for travelling libraries which were to be provided for work camps in Germany and Japan; appeals would have to be made for voluntary con- tributions to those libraries. A further $800 could be saved by postponing the conference of work camp leaders. The total saving thus effected would be $8,800. [16] The reduction of $8,800 proposed by the Secretariat was adopted. Item 1.344. [17] The CHAIRMAN opened the discussion on item 1.344 (Measures to be taken to associate youth movements with the carrying out of the programme of Unesco, particularly the diffusion of the prin- ciples of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, fundamental education and international mutual aid). [18] The Working Party approved that item, whilst recommending, to avoid duplication, that the bulletin News for Youth should be discontinued. [19] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu- cation) observed that the Working Party had not amended the resolution but had suggested that the periodical News for Youth should be dropped from the 1952 programme. The Secretariat was ready to agree to that suggestion, which would result in a saving of $6,300. One Grade 8 post could also be eliminated, making a further economy of $4,400, but that would appear elsewhere in the budget and     IV-5 PROGRAMME would not affect the estimate of $17,300 shown at the end of item 1.344; the deduction from that figure would be $6,300. [20] Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) regretted that the budget for a programme devoted to youth organi- zations and youth movements should be so drastically cut. [21] Item 1.344 was adopted, with the budget reduction proposed by the Secretariat. French amendment concerning youth movements and organizations. [22] The CHAIRMAN returned to an amendment (document 6C/DR/38) presented by the French delegation, which proposed that resolution 1.341 should be supplemented by a new resolution having no budgetary implications, reading as follows: Member States are requested to promote the establish- ment and development, in educational establishments and youth organizations, of international relations and Unesco Friends clubs. [23] It was also pointed out in the amendment that the Youth Sub-Committee of the French National Commission had called for the inclusion in the programme of three draft resolutions con- cerning Unesco's work on behalf of students and young intellectual workers. The three draft re- solutions read as follows: [24] (1) Documentation Centres. Any Member States as yet without any school or university documentation centre are requested to promote the establishment of national documentation centres that might supply young people with all information regarding general, technological and vocational training and openings for various careers. The Director-General is authorized, in collaboration with the International Bureau of Universities, to promote the exchange of regular documentary material on general, technological and vocational training and on openings to careers in the various countries. [25] (2) dents. Social and Practical Training of Stu- Member States are requested to arrange for their National Commission to undertake an enquiry into the social and practical training of students and their education for life, as well as into possible means of improving such training. [26] (3) ‘Workers. Employment of Young Intellectual The Director-General is authorized to assemble, in conjunction with the International Labour Organization and with the assistance of Member States, international documentation on the openings available to young intel- lectual workers in the various countries. COMME: ON 294 [27] Mr. FRANCOIS (France) pointed out that those three draft resolutions contained a plan of work with no budgetary implications, except for the third, which might possibly involve some ex- penditure. [28] Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Edu- cation) stated that the Executive Board had dis- cussed the French proposal contained in document
6C/DR/38 and had decided to consider the three draft resolutions as forming a single resolution. It had been decided that the Secretariat would collect information from the different countries on their arrangements for the social and practical training of students and their education for life. If members of the Secretariat were sent to visit various coun- tries in order to obtain such information, the pro- ject would cost $10,440, but the Secretariat could, without additional expense, confine itself to writing to Member States for information. [29] Mr. FRANCOIS (France) pointed out that an extremely urgent and serious question was involved: unemployment among young intellectuals. It was very important that young people who could find no work should be informed of outlets for them in such and such a country. Mr. Francois hoped very much that the Secretariat would be able to assemble the necessary international data without any increase in costs. [30] Mr. BENITEZ (United States of America) observed that the Working Party had approved the French proposal (document 6C/DR/38) on the understanding that it would be given second priority in relation to other resolutions relating to youth already included in the Draft Programme for 1952, and that it would involve no budgetary obligation for Unesco (document 6C/PRG/27, page 3, para- graph 10). [31] Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) supported the prin: ciple involved in the proposal, which he suggested should be expanded as follows: “to recommend, within regional groups, free circulation of young people with a view to decreasing unemployment among young intellectuals”. [32] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out that such “regional groups” would cease to exist, since the Commission had set up a joint Working Party instructed to form various groups of states, all re: ference to geographical groups being eliminated. [33] viously those activities regional basis: Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) replied that ob: would take place on a if, for example, a young student speaking only Arabic, were invited to go and work in Switzerland, the benefit he would derive would clearly be purely theoretical.    — m m m
295 PROGRAMME Budgetary questions affecting various items in the “Education” programme. [34] Miss ARNOULD (Belgium) returned to the reduction approved for the appropriations relating to resolution 1.343. The cut would seriously impair the educational activities carried out by youth movements for the promotion of intellectual and moral solidarity. Those who had youth on their side were the masters of the future. Unesco was going to infiict a grievous disappointment on youth organizations. Miss Arnould urged the Commission not to reduce the appropriations for that item. [35] The CHAIRMAN replied that the proposal had, unfortunately, been unanimously approved. It was therefore impossible to go back on it. [36] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out that the Commission had reduced appropriations by some. $70,000 whereas the figure of nine per cent fixed for the first reduction would have meant a total cut of $122,548—a difference of over $52,000. That difference would affect the rest of the pro- gramme. Moreover the Commission would be obliged, at the second reading, to take drastic measures to achieve a total reduction of 11.38 per cent. He therefore urged the Commission to re- consider item 1.233, for which there was a credit of $108,080. That resolution called for the despatch of two educational missions of five members each. The Director-General asked for authority to reduce the number of members in each mission to four, which would allow a saving of $20,000. [37] Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) thought it would be preferable to consider that proposal when they came to vote on the Education budget as a whole. [38] Mr. van der STRATEN-WAILLET (Bel. gium) thought that the Commission could easily alter the number of educational specialists in each mission to four. [39] The proposal to reduce the budget of $108,080 for item 1.233 by $20,000 was adopted by 29 votes to 2. [40] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out that the budget for the chanter on Education had still to be reduced by $32,267. Special Project in Fundamental Education. [41] Mr. BENITEZ (United States of America) requested that, in view of the importance of the special Fundamental Education project, that item should not be discussed at the end of the pro- gramme, when time would be short and delegates CONMITS ST ON IV-5 tired. Furthermore, the project had important budgetary implications, which might influence decisions on the budgetrelative to other parts of the programme. He therefore moved that the special project should be discussed forthwith by the Pro- gramme Commission. [42] After a discussion between the delegates of Belgium, the United States of America, France and the United Kingdom, the DIRECTOR-GENERAL, realizing that certain delegations were not able to embark immediately on the discussion of the special project in Fundamental Education, suggested that the Commission should set up a small Working Party, and instruct it to prepare a report as soon as possible. [43] Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) favoured another procedure, since, he said, small delegations often found it impossible both to participate in Working Parties, and at the same time to follow the work of the Conference as a whole. [44] Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil), in view of the importance of the question involved, supported the United States delegate, and proposed that the Commission should amend its agenda and study the special Fundamental Education project immediately after the Natural Sciences section; it would thus be possible to give that project the time and attention it merited. [45] The CHAIRMAN proposed to contact the Chairman of the Budget Committee at the end of the meeting, in order to obtain a budget report on the special project in Fundamental Education for discus- sion by the Programme Commission at the be- ginning of the following week. [46] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL replied that the Pudget Committee could make no useful contribu- tion until the Programme Commission had taken a decision on the special project concerned and on the methods of financing it. He urged the Com- mission to appoint a working party of 12 members, chosen in acordance with the principle of geogra- phical distribution. [47] It was decided, by 22 votes to 13, with
3 abstentions, to set up a working party with a membership of 12. [48] That working party was to be composed of representatives of the following delegations: Bel- gium, Brazil, Egypt, France, India, Lebanon, Mexico, Pakistan, Philippines, New Zealand, United King- dom, United States of America. [49] The Commission decided to examine the spe- cial project in Fundamental Education at its meeting on the morning of 3 July, on the basis of the report to be submitted by the working party.         IV-5 PROGRAMME Natural Sciences. DEVELOPMENT OF INTERNATIONAL SCIENTIFIC Co- OPERATION Item 2.11. [50] The CHAIRMAN opened the discussion on item 2.11 (Subventions and services for organi- zations dealing with scientific co-operation). [51] The Budget Committee had asked for in- creased services from organizations approved for consultative status in return for subventions granted by Unesco. [52] Count JACINI (Chairman of the Executive Board) reminded the meeting that, according to the Directives on relations with international non- governmental organizations, the Executive Board was empowered to attach special conditions to the grant of any subventions. The Executive Board therefore proposed to allocate the subventions pro- vided for to the International Council of Scientific Unions which would itself distribute them amongst the organizations concerned. [53] Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences), understood that the nine per cent reduc- tion was to apply to all the various subventions. [64] Mr. KRUYT (Netherlands) was against any reduction in the subvention granted by Unesco to the International Council of Scientific Unions. He thought it would be unfair not to give it the same subvention as it had received in 1951. [66] Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) referred to the text of the Directives concerning relations with inter- national non-governmental organizations, adopted at the Florence session of the General Conference. In those Directives it was stated that subventions should be granted only to non-governmental organizations which covered an important field of Unesco’s activities and which could make a signi- ficant contribution to the achievement of the ob- jectives set forth in Article I of the Constitution, and particularly to scientific, scholarly, professional and educational organizations. Secondly, a sub- vention should not be granted unless it was clear that it was to supplement income from other sources; exceptions might be made in the case of preparatory committees or new organizations set up pursuant to a resolution of the General Conference. Further, organizations receiving such subventions should make every effort to increase progressively their own share in the financing of the activities for which Unesco had granted the subvention. [56] Mr. Cummins realized that the various non- governmental organizations receiving subventions from Unesco had not had time, since the last session, COM M ОМ to re-orientate their programmes and make an effort to increase their subscriptions, but he considered that, at future Sessions of the Conference each subvention should be considered on its own merits, taking account of the endeavours of the organization concerned to increase subscriptions, the value of its work for Unesco, etc. He did not approve the idea of a flat-rate cut of nine per cent for each body listed in the programme document. [57] With regard to the International Council of Scientific Unions, Mr. Cummins agreed with the Netherlands delegate that ils subvention should remain the same as in the previous year, but ICSU should be avised to try to increase the membership of its constituent Union within the next year. If it could increase its annual income of $78,000, Unesco’s subvention could be reduced in 1953. [68] The International Union for the Protection of Nature had received $8,500 in 1950 and $6,000 in
1951; and it was proposed to raise its subvention to $10,000 in 1952. Its estimated annual income was only $4,000, and there were some doubts even regarding that sum, so that Mr. Cummins thought that Unesco should examine IUPN’s programme carefully before increasing its subvention. He would be in favour of cutting the $10,000 con- siderably and transferring to other parts of the pro- gramme the work IUPN was being asked to do. [69] Similarly, for the International Council of Engineering Sciences, Mr. Cummins thought that the subvention was out of proportion to the amount of work which that body could carry out over the next 12 months. [60] With regard to the Council for the Co- ordination of International Congresses of Medical Sciences, he did not think it justifiable to raise its subvention to $25,000 in 1952, particularly as WHO was also contributing a subvention of $37,000. His impression was that the Council had a tendency to spread its activities over too wide a field. [61] Mr. STAKMAN (United States of America) pointed out that one of Unesco’s most important duties in the field of natural sciences was to encour- age international non-governmental organizations. He agreed, however, that certain reductions had to be made, but hoped that they would be differential, and not horizontal, cuts. [62] Sir Arcot L. MUDALIAR (India) agreed with the Director-General on the necessity of making eco- nomies, but wished to make a special appeal on behalf of the Council for the Co-ordination of Inter- national Congresses of Medical Sciences, which had done excellent work in co-ordinating the activities of various bodies in the medical field. It was at Unesco’s request that WHO had agreed to sponsor the Council jointly with the Organization, and, as WHO was increasing its subventions to the Council in 1952, it would be very unfortunate if Unesco did
297 PROGRAMME not increase its own. He therefore hoped that the $25,000 would not be reduced. He suggested that the Commission should decide upon a general cut under item 2.11 but should leave it to the Director- General and the Executive Board to decide upon the amount of each individual subvention. [63] Mr. MONTEL (France) was afraid there was some misunderstanding about the work of the Inter- national Union for the Protection ‘of Nature, which Was in no way directed towards aesthetic ends. It was dealing with the special problem raised by the increasing impoverishment of arable land in the face of a constantly increasing world population, in particular in tropical zones. The main work of the Union was to urge the people, their leaders and the governments to take all possible measures to combat the disastrous impoverishment of the soil. Mr. Mon- tel pressed the Commission to make no further reduction in the sums allocated to that Organization. [64] Mr. SAGLAM (Turkey), for his part, urged that the Council for the Co-ordination of Inter- national Congresses of Medical Sciences should not be deprived of the means for pursuing its activity. [65] Mr. van ZYL (Union of South Africa) agreed with the Australian delegate that there should not be an overall cut of nine per cent on each subven- tion, but that the merits of each case should be ex- amined. Many of the organizations concerned had received a fixed sum for a number of years, and it would be unfair to cut their subventions suddenly by 9 or 11 per cent. He agreed with the cuts proposed by the Australian delegate. On the other hand, he could not support the French delegate’s remarks regarding the International Union for the Protection of Nature. In South Africa, much work was being done for the protection of nature and it was felt there that TUPN was not the most suitable organization to carry out that task; so far it had obtained no practical results and its work could better be done by some other body. ; [66] The DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out that it was idle to express regret, which incidentally he shared, but which, to be effective, should have been reflected in the adoption of a higher budget ceiling. The Commission would have to be ruthless and cut the budget automatically by the nine per cent re- quired, and then consider, at the second reading, whether certain rearrangements of funds could be made. [67] Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) sup- ported that proposal, and asked the Chairman to state the figures for each item imposed by the budget ceiling. COMMISSION IV-5 [68] Mr. MOHR (Norway) agreed with the Di- rector-General. [69] The proposed reduction was adopted by
28 votes to 0, with 2 abstentions. [70] Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) observed that the Commission had agreed upon a flat cut, but had still to decide how the reduction was to be dis- tributed among the different organizations. He pro- posed that the matter should be referred to the Working Party on Natural Sciences, which could then report back to the Commission. [71] That proposal was seconded by the delegates of BELGIUM and EGYPT, and adopted. Item 2.12. [72] The CHAIRMAN opened the discussion on item 2.12 (Publication of abstracts, inter-lingual dictionaries and lists of scientific and technical terms). [73] Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences) said that no reduction had been proposed in that budget, which was already small, and which financed useful work; in the following financial year, the work would be executed entirely by the International Council of Scientific Unions. [74] Item 2.12 was adopted. The appropriation of $8,800 was also adopted. Item 2.13. [75] The CHAIRMAN opened the discussion on item 2.13 (Development of the activities of Field Science Co-operation Offices in Latin America, South Asia, East Asia, South East Asia and the Middle East). [76] Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences) said that the reduction of nine per cent proposed by the Secretariat would not raise in- superable difficulties, since the work of the Offices in the Far East was, at the moment, of necessity, restricted. [77] Mr. SAGLAM (Turkey) said that the Middle East Branch of the Science Co-operation Office, at Istanbul, had made a very valuable contribution to the work of scientific institutes in Turkey. He hoped it would be possible to extend the work of that Office still further. [78] Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) sup- ported the resolution and the proposed appropri- ations. The Field Science Co-operation Office in     IV-5 PROGRAMME Montevideo had done invaluable work. It was essen- tial that the Office should remain there, even if, with the expansion of the project, other larger centres came to be established. [79] Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) expresses his ap- preciation of the very good work accomplished by the Field Science Co-operation Offices, but had a few suggestions to make which would not diminish their effectiveness in 1952. Money was included in the budget for fees to scientists passing through a given region, in order that they might give a series of lectures. He believed that such visiting scientists would be willing to lecture without a fee, provided their out-of-pocket expenses were paid. [80] Secondly, there was a charge under fees for the preparation of lists and directories of scientific institutions in the areas in question. Mr. Cummins thought that the countries concerned would gladly supply the necessary information and the directories could be compiled in the Field Science Co-operation Offices themselves. If his suggestions were adopted, it should be possible to make an 11 per cent cut on the Field Science Co-operation Offices. [81] Mr. ZABALA MUNIZ (Uruguay) agreed with the Director-General's remarks on the proposed re- ductions, provided that the development of the work of the Montevideo Office was in no way affected. The Office had the full support of his country’s government in all respects and, in particular, as regarded finance, should any financial aid be re- quired. [82]: Mr. LHÉRISSON (Haiti) thought that, despite the great importance attached by all delegates to the development of scientific activities, the recom- mendations of the Director-General should be accepted as a whole, and the proposed cuts made in the appropriations for all resolutions. [83] Item 2.13 was adopted, with the reduction of nine per cent (i.e. $31,000) suggested by the Secre- tariat. Item 2.131. [84] Item 2.131, having no budgetary implications, was adopted. Item 2.21. [85] The CHAIRMAN opened the discussion on item 2.21 (World survey to study the contribution which research institutes and laboratories can bring to the solution of the most important scientific problems). [86] The Budget Committee had recommended that the enquiry should be carried out in close col- laborafion with the International Council of Scien- COMMISSTON 298 tific Unions, if possible without any additional sub- vention. [87] Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) stated that, in his delegation’s opinion, it would not be desirable to initiate the world survey of research institutes and laboratories in 1952. It was felt that Unesco should not proceed with the work contemplated in resolu- tion 2.21 to the extent indicated in the programme document, and not even to the extent of $3,500. If the item were not deleted completely, at least $3,000 should be cut, leaving it to the Secretariat to obtain as much information at it could. [88] Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences) pointed out that items 2.21 and 2.22 had been explicitly requested by the Economic and Social Council when adopting a recommendation for an assistance plan based on solid foundations. He urged that the small appropriation, for a survey which was indispensable, should be maintained. [89] Mr. MONTEL (France) supported that re- quest. It was clear that a survey of the importance proposed by the Committee of scientific experts could not usefully be undertaken without an extensive preliminary scientific enquiry. [90] Mr. STAKMAN (United States of America) disagreed with the Australian delegate’s remarks. His delegation would vote for the item, in the hope that savings could be effected elsewhere. [91] Soliman HOZAYEN Bey (Egypt) noted that the third batch of projects included the establish- ment of a Physical Oceanographical Institute. It was essential to state that an Oceanographical In- stitute of Biology and Physics was meant. [92] Ttem 2.21, which the New Zealand and Australian delegations wanted deleted, was main- tained by 22 votes to 2. [93] The appropriation of $3,500 was approved. [94] Mr. SEVERI (Italy) assumed that the vote implied adoption of the triple classification of pro- jects, in order of priority, set out in that resolution. He also assumed that it implied acceptance of the proposals put forward by the Natural Sciences Working Party regarding the European Nuclear Physics Laboratory and the International Computa- tion Centre. [95] Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences) replied that there was no doubt on the matter: the priorities established would be main- tained, as would become clear in the course of dis- cussion of the Working Party’s report.      FF = ;— и т ь И о И а т е н т е а и у е E E E J E И Н Н И И И A
299 PROGRAMME Item 2.22. [96] The CHAIRMAN opened the discussion on item 2.22 (Measures to assist scientific research, and the creation of co-ordinating and research centres). [97] Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences) proposed that the sum of $4,200 should be deleted; the proposed survey would be carried out by the Secretariat. The item could, therefore, be adopted without affecting the budget in any way. [98] Item 2.22 was adopted. Item 2.28. [99] The CHAIRMAN opened the discussion on item 2.23 (Studied with a view to the establishment of an international institute of research on the brain, and of a laboratory to study the physics of high energy particles). Credits applied for: $5,900. [100] Mr. STAKMAN (United States of America) had been instructed by the members of the Working Party to express their gratitude for the opportunity they had been given of consulting together as a group. They hoped to have fuiure opportunities of the same kind. [101] As Chairman of the Working Party, Mr. Stak- man presented its report (document 6C/PRG/26). He read out the resolution on page 2 of the docu- ment, stressing the fact that a high degree of una- nimity had been reached on the recommendations put forward. [102] Mr. RACKHAM (United Kingdom) asked if the resolution included the international institute of research on the brain. [103] Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences) said that the Working Party had so far been able to consider only the problem raised by the establishment of a regional laboratory for the physics of high energy particles. It was not practic- able, at the moment, to consider the establishment of an international institute of research on the brain. As regarded the first part of item 2.23, therefore, only a preliminary survey would be made in 1952. [104] Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) hoped that that did not imply that preliminary investiga- tions regarding an international institute of research on the brain would be dropped. [105] Item 2.23 was adopted. [106] Mr. CUMMINS (Australia) asked whether the section of the Working Party's report devoted to that resolution was adopted at the same time as the re- solution. COMMISSION IV-5 [107] The CHAIRMAN replied in the affirmative. [108] A reduction of $3,000 proposed by the Secre- tariat was adpoted. Item 2.24. [109] The CHAIRMAN opened the discussion on item 2.24 (establishment of the International Com- putation Centre). [110] The Budget Committee did not consider it possible to give an opinion on the sum of $60,000 to be lent or allocated to the Centre, the Constitution of which had not yet been drawn up. The Committee held that, if a subvention were to be granted, it should appear as a debit in Unesco's budget, and should not be drawn from the Working Capital Fund. [111] Mr. STAKMAN (United States of America) read the section of the Report concerning the Inter- national Computation Centre. The feeling in the Working Party had been that the project had been discussed for a very long time and, if Member States and the Specialized Agencies were really interested in it, and if its services would be as valuable as was asserted, it was time that contribu- tions were made so that the Centre could be set up. The Working Party had felt that it would be un- realistic to ask for a loan until the end of 1953, with practically no prospects of repayment, and had therefore suggested that Unesco should be asked to grant a subvention of approximately $20,000 for the launching of the Centre. [112] The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the Pro- gramme Commission could propose an increase in the budget only after consultation with the Executive Board and the Budget Committee. [113] The Chairman proposed that the Commission should take a vote on the resolution, leaving the question of the budget in abeyance. [114] Mr. SEVERI (Italy) urged that measures should be adopted at once, since it was a question of establishing a laboratory which had been ap- proved by the United Nations in principle in 1946; the question had been thoroughly investigated by Unesco as well as by Ecosoc and by numerous com- mittees of experts. [115] The Italian delegation proposed that clause (b) of paragraph (3) (Part III) of the Report sub- mitted by the Natural Sciences Working Party (document 6C/PRG/26, page 3) should be amended as follows: It is finally recommended that the Director-General should: . .. (b) Convene a conference of representative of governments of Member States and United Nations     IV-6 PROGRAMME Agencies in November 1951: firstly, to formulate proposals on the possibility of the Centre; secondly, to discuss initial and continuing financing of the Centre; and thirdly, to discuss proposals on the method of establishing permanent relations between the Centre, Unesco and other Organizations, with a view to ensuring it con- tinuity, preserving its international character, and selecting the country for setting up its headquarters. [116] Mr. STAKMAN (United States of America) pointed out that a provision of the kind mentioned by the Italian delegate was contained in Annex I to the Report. He therefore had no objection to the Italian amendment, but wondered whether it was necessary. Е
1117] The CHAIRMAN asked whether the Italian delegate still maintained his proposal. [118] Mr. SEVERI (Italy) replied in the affir- mative. A meeting of representatives of the three States concerned, held in May 1951, had laid down the main lines of the project. The Conference planned for November would be unnecessary. The Italian delegation therefore proposed that a final decision should be taken, in accordance with the recommendation put forward by Italy, the Nether- lands and Switzerland in Annex II to the Working Party’s Report (document 6C/PRG/26). [119] The CHAIRMAN called for a vote on that amendment, which had been accepted by the Chair- man of the Working Party. [120] Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) thought that $20,000 COM MTS STON 300 was. an inadequate sum for the launching of the Centre. He therefore proposed that the possibility of a $60,000 loan should be considered, in addition to the subvention of $20,000. He did not believe that Member States would contribute to the main- tenance of the Centre until it was in operation. [121] Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) also urged that the National Commissions should be informed of the suggestion of a loan, which, since it had been pro- posed by the Executive Board, was surely legal. [122] Mr. STAKMAN (United States of America) stated that the Working Party had discussed the matter and had been told that, if a loan were obtained, it would have to be repaid by the end of
1953. The Working Party had felt it would be impossible for the loan to be paid back by that date and had therefore proposed a subvention. [123] The CHAIRMAN said that the financial ques- tion as a whole would be referred to the Budget Committee. [124] The Italian amendment was rejected by
14 votes to 9. [125] The text of the Working Party’s report on item 2.24 was adopted by 28 votes in favour. [126] Item 2.24 was adopted. The meeting rose at 7 p.m. SIXTH MEETING Friday, 29 June 1951, at 9.30 a.m. Chairman: Mr. S. M. Smarr (Pakistan), later: Discussion of the Draft Programme for 1952 (continuation). Natural Sciences (continuation). Arp ZONE PROGRAMME. Items 2.25 to 2.263. [1] Mr. STAKMAN (United States of America) presented the views of the Working Party on the Mr. Jean PraceT (Switzerland) Arid Zone programme contained in document 6C/ PRG/26, pp. 2 and 3. [2] Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences) made a brief general statement on the question. The Advisory Committee on Arid Zone Research was to meet twice a year (estimated cost, $11,000); the Secretariat was to collect and dissem- inate information on research being carried out, and on the organizations, scientists and engineers engaged in such research (estimated cost, $8,000). E E L S E P E E T S ب ل ا س ا س ا ج ح V E e e ‏ P R , ل ن ب ‎ M E A c e :