PLENARY MEETINGS 11-23  TWENTY - THIRD PLENARY MEETING  Wednesday, 10 December 1952, at 6 p.m.  President: Mr. S.M. SHARIF (Pakistan)  CONTENTS  Consideration of the Report of the Nominations Com-  mittee . . .  Consideration of the Report of the Credentials Com-  mittee .  Celebration of the Fourth Anniversary of the Universal  Declaration of Human Rights . . .
236  Consideration of the Report of the Committee on Re-  ports of Member States .  CONSIDERATION OF THE REPORT OF THE NOMINA-  TIONS COMMITTEE
(1) The PRESIDENT - I declare the twenty-third  plenary meeting of the Conference open. I call  upon Mr. Bender, the Chairman of the Nominations  Committee, t. oresent the report of this Commit-  tee.
(2) Mr. F. BENDER (Netherlands), Chairman of  the Nominations Committee - Mr. President,  fellow delegates, I have to report on the fourth  meeting of the Nominations Committee, which was  mainly concerned with the nomination of members  of the Budget Committee, of the Legal Committee,  of the Headquarters Committee, and of the Com-  mittee on Reports of Member States, for the next  session of the General Conference. It was also  suggested that we nominate the members of the  Committee on Contributions; after discussion, it  was unanimously decided that the Nominations  Committee should not take action on this question,  because we did not know which financial experts  would be available in 1954. We prefer to leave it  to the Administrative Commission of the Eighth  Session to appoint the Committee on Contributions.  We did, however, nominate the members of the  four other Committees. I should like to pay tri-  bute to the spirit of co-operation which the dele-  gates have shown; in more than one instance a  delegate yielded his place to another delegate who  seemed to be more anxious to fill the place than  he was himself,
(3) I shall now read the names of the various  countries which will serve on those Committees.  First, the Budget Committee: Australia, Belgium,  Canada, Egypt, France, German Federal Republic,
238  India, Indonesia, Israel, Liberia, Mexico, Nor-  way, United Kingdom, United States of America  and Uruguay.
(4) For the Legal Committee we nominated: Bel-  gium, Canada, Colombia, Egypt, France, Greece,  Japan, Jordan, Lebanon, Liberia, Peru, Switzer-  land, Turkey, United Kingdom and United States  of America.
(5) In the Headquarters Committee we tried to  achieve some measure of continuity; seven of the  members of last year were asked to remain, so  there were not many changes. We nominated:  Australia, Belgium, Brazil, China, France, India,  Italy, Pakistan, United Kingdom, United States of  America and Venezuela.
(6) Lastly, we discussed the Committee on Re-  ports of Member States and nominated: Austria,  Cambodia, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, France,  Iraq, Luxembourg, Turkey, Union of South Africa,  United Kingdom and United States of America.
(7) Mr. President, I have made my trip around  the world and I have the honour to suggest the ad-  option of this report.
(8) The PRESIDENT - I thank the Chairman of the  Nominations Committee for this report. Do you  agree with the adoption of the report as a whole,  or would you like to consider each Committee se-  parately? ... I take it that you would like to con-  sider the whole report. Do you agree to adopt this  report? ... The report is adopted unanimously.  CONSIDERATION OF THE REPORT OF THE CREDEN-  TIALS COMMITTEE
(9) The PRESIDENT - I now call upon Sir Ben  - 235 -
11-23  Bowen Thomas to present the report of the Cre-  dentials Committee.
(10) Sir Ben Bowen THOMAS (United Kingdom) -  Mr. President and fellow delegates, in the unavoi-  dable absence of Mr. Parra-Perez of Venezuela,  the Chairman of the Credentials Committee, I  have been asked to present the report.
(11) The Credentials Committee met on Tuesday,
9 December, and recommended that the General  Conference accept as fully valid the credentials  recently received from the following States, which  have already presented provisional credentials:  Guatemala, Iran, Iraq, Panama, Turkey, the  Union of South Africa, and Uruguay.
(12) The Committee further decided to call the  attention of the members of the Conference to Rule
22 of the Rules of Procedure, relating to creden-  tials. With your permission, Mr. President, I  shall read that Rule: "The credentials of delegates  and alternates shall be issued by the Head of the  State, the Head of the Government or the Minister  of Foreign Affairs. However, the Organization  shall accept as valid credentials which have been  signed by some other appropriate Minister, when  the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Member  State concernedhas filed with the Director-General  a statement that such Minister is authorized to  issue credentials." The Committee was eager to  bring that Rule to the notice of members of the  Conference, so that difficulties that have been en-  countered at this session may be avoided, parti-  cularly when the next extraordinary session is  convened. Mr. Presicent, I present the report.
(13) The PRESIDENT - I thank Sir Ben Bowen  Thomas. Ladies and gentlemen, do you agree to  adopt this report? The report is adopted unani-  mously.  CELEBRATION OF THE FOURTH ANNIVERSARY OF  THE UNIVERSAL DECLARATION OF HUMAN RIGHTS
(14) The PRESIDENT - Ladies and gentlemen,  today we commemorate Human Rights Day. The  General Committee decided that three speeches  should be made to mark this anniversary. They  took this decision, influenced mainly by the con-  sideration of saving time. They decided that I,  as your Acting President, the Acting Director-  General, and Mr. Cassin of France should make  a few observations on this occasion.
(15) Ladies and gentlemen, today is Human Rights  Day. Exactly four years ago, on 10 December
1948, the General Assembly of the United Nations  unanimously adopted the Universal Declaration of  Human Rights. This, therefore, is the anniver-  sary of an historic event, of a major milestone on  the path of mankind's progress towards the fulfil-  , ment of an age-old dream. It is the aspiration and  ideal which has been set forth by mankind's grea-  PLENARY MEETINGS  test religious and moral leaders, and it has been  aptly stated in the very first sentence of the pre-  amble of the Declaration: "Recognition of the in-  herent dignity and of the equal and inalienable  Tights of all memkers of the human family is the  foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the  world".
(16) But the thirty Articles of the Declaration are  more than a dream and a hope. They are a pro-  mise of accomplishment, a carefully conceived  plan of action. Through them, the whole human  community calls for a common standard of achieve-  ment for all peoples of all nations, to the end that  every individual and organ of society shall strive,  by teaching and education, to promote respect for  these rights and freedoms; and, through them,  ladies and gentlemen, the call is being heard.  Progressive measures, both national and inter-  national, are being taken in an effort to secure an  effective recognition and observance of human  rights.
(17) Every one of the thirty Articles of the Decla-  ration is of universal value and validity. Some,  however, have special significance. For example,  Article 22 says: ''Everyone, as a member of so-  ciety, has the right to social security". Article
25 says: "Everyone has the right to a standard of  living adequate for the health and well-being of  himself and of his family". Article 26 guarantees  the right to free education, and Article 27 the right  "freely to participate in the cultural life of the  community, to enjoy the arts and to share in sci-  entific advancement and its benefits". These  rights are of particular significance for peoples  in regions of the world where poverty, illness,  ignorance, social and economic distress have been  tragically prevalent for many years. For such  peoples, the glorious promise of the Declaration  is that their daily lives will gradually be freed  from the terrible burdens of fear, want and ig-  norance.
(18) It is fitting that we, gathered here today,  should pledge ourselves once again to the noble  principles of the Universal Declaration of Human  Rights. For it was in Paris, in this great capital  of human freedom and enlightenment, that this  solemn proclamation of man's dignity was made.  Itis a matter of pride to us that the work of Unesco  greatly contributes towards the accomplishment of  this task, and I am happy that this Seventh Session  of the General Conference has also helped to ad-  vance the cause further.
(19) Ladies and gentlemen, the task is enormous.  If it is to be carried out successfully, all nations,  great and small, must work together, both on the  moral and the material plane, for the common  benefit of all mankind.  I call upon the Acting Director-General.
(20) Mr. John W. TAYLOR (Acting Director-  General) - When the United Nations approved the  Universal Declaration of Human Rights just four  = 236 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  years ago today, they were voicing the heartfelt  needs of men and women everywhere. Yet there  was nothing new in the idea of a Declaration of  Rights. What was new sprang from the conviction,  born of two world wars, that such basic rights  must be applicable to all mankind if under-privi-  lege, group discrimination and disregard for the  weak by the strong were not to plague the peace  and security of the world for all time.
(21) The second world war was fundamentally the  outcome of an organized attempt to override and  even to destroy the rights of others by brute force.  This attempt failed because ofthe determination of  those who did believe in the importance of human  freedom and rights. The responsibility of fighting  for the cause of freedom was shared by the poor  as well as by the rich, by the weak as well as by  the strong. The great Indian sage, Mahatma  Gandhi, once remarked that: "There can be no  rights without responsibilities". We may well turn  that phrase about and say that you cannot expect  peoples to continue to share responsibility if you  deny them their basic human rights.
(22) The limited declarations of special rights in  the past, such as Magna Carta, the British Bill of  Rights, the French Declaration of the Rights of  Man and the American Declaration of Independence,  arose from the particular needs of their own times  and places. They were originally intended to apply  mainly to specific national groups. But the march  of events has proved beyond doubt that such ideas as  these could not long remain the privilege of the few  without serious consequences for all. In the twenti-  eth century, the vast advances in means of communi-  cation andtravel have greatly speeded up the prop-  agation of these ideals. It has become increasing-  ly clear that international peace and progress ul-  timately depend on the universal application of  basic rights which in the past have contributed so  much to the welfare of those who have enjoyed  them.
(23) Many of the rights laid down in the Universal  Declaration of Human Rights - we might say most  of them - are by no means new to the peoples of  those countries which are industrially highly de-  veloped. But at the present time some of the Arti-  cles are quite meaningless to very large numbers  of the human race. I need refer only, for example,  to the right to adequate standards of living and  health orto the right to share in scientific advance-  ment and its benefits. Such rights as these do not  amount to very much where there is widespread  distress and poverty.
(24) Such programmes as those of technical assis-  tance and fundamental education are, as we all  know, designed to ameliorate this state of affairs.  In the few years which have passed since the war,  we have scarcely scratched the surface of these  problems. It would have been unreasonable to ex-  pect otherwise. The important thing for us to re-  member on this fourth anniversary of the Univer-  sal Declaration of Human Rights is that these  II-23  rights must be made universal in their application.  They represent the highest ideals of international  co-operation and mutual help. If we regard an  ideal as a final state of affairs to be attained inthe  distant future, I concede that there may be room  for cynicism; if, however, we consider an ideal  in terms of constant; unswerving policy, then we  are attaining this ideal all the time that we are  striving for it.
(25) The importance of an anniversary such as  this is that it gives us occasion to take stock of the  progress made so far, to renew our determination  and to take new strength, not by words alone, but  by doing all in our power, at the national as well  as the international level, to see that human rights  are strengthened where they exist, and that they  are realized in those parts of the world where the  goal still seems to be far away.
(26) The PRESIDENT - I call upon Mr. Cassin.
(27) Mr. CASSIN (France) - (Translation from the  French) Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the  Seventh Session of Unesco's General Conference,  now drawing to a close in Paris, adds a special  note of solemnity to the collective searching of  conscience which the representatives of the na-  tions undertake on 10 December every year. On  this anniversary of the unanimous adoption  of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights  by the General Assembly of the United Nations,  which was held in Paris in 1948, the French dele-  gation is deeply honoured at having been chosen to  express the feelings of all those who have come,  many of them from distant lands, to take part in  the work of the Conference.
(28) No one, not even those who drafted it, has  ever presumed to assert that the Universal Decla-  ration of Human Rights is either perfect in form  or completely satisfactory in substance. But the  most important thing about it is that it should have  welled up from the depths of the human soul, on  the morrow of a monstrous, universal war, that  inflicted nearly 40 million casualties and was both  the result and the cause of countless violations of  the dignity and rights of man. It stands as a pro-  test against the history of a thousand years and as  a proclamation of faith in a better future for man-  kind. It sets before the young an ideal capable of  winning their enthusiastic support.
(29) At an historic moment, therefore, the United  Nations Assembly became the mouthpiece by which  all the peoples gave expression to their common  aims. The Declaration which it adopted is not the  property of a group, or a commission or a coali-  tion of countries; it is the common property of the  human race. It is something far more than a docu-  ment tagged on to the Charter of the United Na-  tions, that Charter which has not yet been signed  by all governments. It has become part of the  permanent heritage of mankind.
(30) I am happy to have the opportunity here to  = 237 -
11-23  pay tribute to Unesco and particularly to its Dir-  ector-General, Mr. Torres Bodet, for the zeal  with which our Organization has responded to the  appeal in the Preamble to the Declaration. The  Preamble places more faith in teaching and educa-  tion than in‘national or international legislation as  a means of ensuring that Human Rights are re-  cognized, respected and extended; and, by sprea-  ding knowledge of the Declaration, by illustrating  it with exhibitions and writings that appeal both to  the eye and to the heart of "the common man",  Unesco has faithfully accomplished the task as-  signed to it in its Constitution, namely to strive  for justice and to banish war from the minds of  men.
(31) In a more specialized field, Unesco is also  doing its duty by implementing Articles 26 and 27  of the Declaration, which proclaim the rights of  all men to education and culture. The great world-  wide campaign to eliminate illiteracy, to train the  young to a sense of responsibility and to provide  fundamental education, is of primary importance  to our times, as are Unesco's contributions to the  advancement of science and the arts, the protec-  tion of authors of the works of the mind, and the  ever broadening participation of children and  adults, both men and women, in the benefits of  culture.
(32) We must, however, be on our guard against  pretending that we are satisfied with the progress  hitherto achieved; nor should we look on cultural  rights as an isolated group, for, in reality, they  form part of a whole, just as the human persona-  lity is a whole. What good would education be, if  freedom of thought, belief or opinion were sup-  pressed? How can we, in practice, ensure for  mankind a decent standard of living and a fair  share in the benefits of culture, if the quantity of  food produced over the surface of the globe re-  mains quite inadequate to meet even the most ele-  mentary needs? Though regretfully, we must face  certain facts: in the first place, nearly a third of  mankind is not represented at the present Confer-  ence. Next, despite impressive progress in edu-  cation and the expansion of universities, more than  half the human race is illiterate; and then half the  human race is still too under-nourished to lead  anything but a vegetative life.
(33) To remedy these ills, the nations must dis-  play a tenacity worthy of the creative enthusiasm  they showed between 1945 and 1948. They must  not allow the shadows to lengthen, nor the rifts  dividing them to broaden. Today, more than ever  before, we realize that respect for and the ad-  vancement of human rights are closely dependent  upon the preservation of peace, and that, correla-  tively, there can be no democracy, no peace  among the nations, unless all men everywhere, .  from the simplest to the highest, unite in a com-  mon endeavour to put an end to oppression, vio-  lence, exploitation and poverty.
(34) We shall, in the near future, have an oppor-  PLENARY MEETINGS  tunity to see whether the nations have been suffici-  ently vigilant to overcome the obstacles that every  year arise to retard the adoption of the two great  general covenants for the application of the Dec-  laration. On this day, 10 December, dedicated to  the celebration of a great event, we must fortify  our determination to transform into a practical  reality the promises held out by the great princi-  ples of the Universal Declaration. As long as  human rights are violated, humanity will be like  Prometheus in the legend: it will look on, help-  less, while its entrails are torn out by injustice.  But man, who succeeded in winning fire from  heaven, cannot but win the victory in the age-long  battle for the dignity of his person.
(35) The PRESIDENT - By your applause you have  shown your admiration and appreciation of the  noble sentiments expressed by Mr. Cassin.  CONSIDERATION OF THE REPORT OF THE COMMIT-  TEE ON REPORTS OF MEMBER STATES
(36) The PRESIDENT - Ladies and gentlemen, we  now proceed to the next item: "Consideration of  the Report of the Committee on Reports of Mem-  ber States". I call upon the Rapporteur, Mr.  Fourmond of France, to present this Report.
(37) Mr. FOURMOND (France) - (Translation  from the French) Mr. President, ladies and gen-  tlemen, the Report of your Committee on Reports  of Member States has been distributed, and it is  therefore unnecessary for me to read it. With  your permission, however, I will comment briefly  on our main conclusions.
(38) I should like to tell you first of all that,  thanks to the close co-operation of all its members  and the valuable help given by the Secretariat, the  Committee has been able to do extremely useful  work. -
(39) The reports of Member States are, so to  speak, the barometer by which Unesco's efficacy  may be gauged. They enable us to estimate how  far Unesco's ideas are being spread and its re-  solutions implemented, and what each Member  State has achieved in following out Unesco's direc-  tives.
(4v, We were very happy to find that the baro-  meter had risen quite considerably this year. For  instance, at the Sixth Session of the General Con-  ference, the Committee had forty reports to study;  this year, fifty-one were submitted to it, and  another report came in later. All the reports con-  tained more material, and that is the main thing.
(41) A second important point is that a great many  Member States have taken account of the com-  ments made at the last session and, although some  fourteen did not keep to the proposed plan, we are  hopeful that, if they follow the plan more closely  in future, we shall at the next session be able to  - 238 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  obtain a still more accurate picture of the state of  Unesco's activities throughout the world.
(42) The proposed plan divided the reports into  two sections, a first section for the general pub-  lic, to be treated accordingly, and a second con-  taining a more technical survey for the informa-  tion of Unesco as a whole, and more particularly  of the General Conference. In many cases, the  second part was found to be merely an enlarge-  ment of the first. As the contents of the first sec-  tion are not exactly in line with what is needed by  way of general information, it was decided that it  would be better to do away with that section, at  any rate for the time being. In most cases, the  contents of the second section follow the plan sug-  gested by the Director-General and contain infor-  mation on the following subjects:  (a) changes in laws and regulations;  (b) action taken in pursuance of recommenda-  tions and international conventions adopted by the  General Conference;  (c) action taken to implement programme re-  solutions;  (d) measures taken to assist National Commis-  sions or other national institutions or groups, to-  gether with a survey of their activities.
(43) I should like, all the same, to go further into  detail on the last two points. With regard to the  execution of programme resolutions, the Com-  mittee found that this year more reports gave an  account of the implementation of Unesco's pro-  gramme as a whole. Of the reports received,  eighteen are very full, while twenty others des-  cribe valuable achievements, showing progress  on past activities, but thirteen gave evidence of  activity still on an inadequate scale, mainly exer-  cised, moreover, in fields outside the scope of  Unesco's annual programme and, therefore, not in  conformity with the General Conference's recom-  mendations for greater participation by Member  States in the execution of the programme.
(44) With regard to the last point, namely, “In-  formation concerning measures taken to assist  and promote National Commissions and otherna-  tional institutions or groups; survey of their ac-  tivities", the Special Committee which met in 1951  suggested that a survey of the activities of National  Commissions should henceforth be included in the  reports, with more precise information on their  functioning and work. This year's Committee  finds that 34 reports provide full information on  that subject; 15 countries, however, have sup-  plied no information of any real value on their  National Commissions's activities. Nevertheless,  taking the reports as a whole, it would appear that  National Commissions, although often short of  adequate means, are the main lever in the Unesco
11-23  machine in the countries where they operate. They  thus richly deserve the tribute I am pleased to pay  them here.
(45) To deal next with the basic elements for the  form of future reports, we found ourselves, as you  have all done in the various Committees on which  you have served, faced with the-overriding need  for retrenchment. We decided to recommend to  the General Conference that it reserve first prior-  ity for the publication of the annual reports which  Member States are required to submit to the Gene-  ral Conference, in accordance with Article VIII of  the Constitution, and we tried to find ways of limi-  ting, at least temporarily - since that is absolutely  essential - the contents of future reports. We  suggest that the form of the reports should be  simplified for the time being, maintaining only the  really essential headings. We consider that a  general plan with fewer headings would enable  Member States to reply within the prescribed li-  mits, and we recommend that National Commis-  sions take it upon themselves to circulate in their  own countries, an account of their most important  activities, doing so from their own resources and  in a form suitable for consumption by the general  public.
(46) Further, recognizing the importance of the  conclusions reached at the Fourth Meeting of Re-  presentatives of National Commissions, your  Committee endorses the following recommenda-  tions:  (a) thateach report include a statement on mea-  sures taken to ensure the distribution of Unesco  publications;  (b) that National Commissions provide infor-  mation on the close liaison which they are recom-  mended to maintain with experts and participants  in Unesco seminars.
(47) Our report concludes with a few recommen-  dations concerning procedure, designed to make,  as far as possible, for easier work in the future  and for rational use of any improvements made in  this field.
(48) Such, in their main lines, are the findings of  your Committee. I hope that they will suffice to  convince you that our efficiency barometer is  quite definitely rising.
(49) The PRESIDENT - I thank Mr. Fourmond,  the Rapporteur, for the report and for the very  lucid manner in which he introduced it. The draft  resolution on this report is on page 6 of document
7C/REP/1, dated 8 December. Do you agreeto  adopt this resolution? ... I declare the resolution  to be unanimously adopted.  The meeting rose at 6.40 p. m.  - 239 -