PLENARY MEETINGS  Ul-17  SEVENTEENTH PLENARY MEETING  Wednesday, 26 November 1952, at 11 a.m.  President: Mr. S.M. SHARIF (Pakistar)  CONTENTS  Tributes to the Director-General on the occasion of  his resignation .  TRIBUTES TO THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL ON THE  OCCASION OF HIS RESIGNATION
(1) The PRESIDENT - The meeting is called to  order. Fellow delegates, we are meeting today  with a grave sense of responsibility, and our deli-  berations will vitally affect the future of Unesco.  The Director-General has resigned. He took the  decision to give up his post after having devoted  himself whole-heartedly, with all his great energy  and ability, all his courage and sincerity, and all  his vision and faith, to the development of Unesco  over a period of four richly creative years of  steadily growing activity. For Mr. Torres Bodet,  Unesco was - and must always be - a truly univer-  sal Organization dedicated to the task of maintain-  ing peace and fostering social justice through the  co-operation of all peoples, through their under-  standing of one another, through the meeting of  minds, and through the gradual improvement of  living standards. The Director-General told us  that he could conceive of Unesco in the future only  as an Organization in process of further develop-  ment, and with sufficient means for such develop-  ment. He took his irrevocable decision to resign  after the General Conference had voted a budget  ceiling which he felt to be inadequate for the devel-  opment of Unesco. 2
(2) But there was a deeper and more important  reason for his action. It was the feeling that the  voting of a budget ceiling lower thanthe one he con-  sidered necessary reflected, on the part of many  Member States, a lack of interest or even a lack of  faith in the work, the principles andthe goals of the  Organization. We may differ with the Director-  General, but we respect his view and his feelings.  Yetwe also respect the point of view of the delega-  tions of the Member States which did not agree with  him about the budget. There are circumstances  that suggest that they were not prompted in their  attitude towards the budget by any lack of interest  in the Organization and its continuing development.  Some countries have difficulties of their own which
213  must be taken into account. Their financial contri-  butions to Unesco have to be seen in relation to  other obligations, often in relation to their own na-  tional economies. They feel that the programme  presented bythe Director-General can still be car-  ried out if necessary measures of economy in me-  thods and administration are taken. They also feel  that it is possible to increase the budget by trans-  ferring some of the items fromthe main programme  tothe technical assistance programme, and believe  that the working party already established by the  General Conference would be able to make useful  suggestions. Again we may or may not agree with  this view, but we respect the good faith of those who  hold it.
(3) Fellow delegates, our procedure is to vote the  budget ceiling before we pass to a detailed exami-  nation of the programme. This procedure is based  on administrative convenience. It permits a deci-  sion on the amount of funds available for expendi-  ture before we embark on the relatively long pro-  cess of deciding on the details of how it is to be  spent. Some delegations take the view that this  system is wrong. They believe that it would be  better to examine the programme first and then to  ask their governments for instructions about the  amount of money that would be available to carry  out a programme already discussed in detail. This  might be a lengthy process. Nevertheless, there  are two differing opinions about our present proce-  dure and it may perhaps be necessary to re-exam-  ine it for the future in order to see which of the  two systems is really better from the practical  point of view.
(4) It remains true, however, that the vote which  was taken on the budget for the next two years was  correct according to procedure, and it was a valid  vote: 29 to 21. This result was most unfortunate.  It showed a marked difference of opinion and indi-  cated a reflection on the internal solidarity of an  Organization which is universal in its principles,  aims and activities and which is directed towards  strengthening the solidarity of peoples and nations.  - 213 -   W=17
(5) This cleavage of opinion, as reflected in the  vote which led to the resignation of the Director-  General, created a crisis. The General Commit-  tee considered the situation arising out of the Di-  rector-General's resignation, and its consequen-  ces for the future of Unesco, and instructed me to  hold consultations with individual delegations with  a view to resolving the crisis and determining the  future course of action of the General Conference.  Fellow delegates, I felt that I was unequal to this  heavy responsibility, but I was encouraged by the  expression of confidence in me on the part of the  members of the General Committee, and bya sense  of obligation that, as acting President of the Con-  ference, I should do my best. I felt that my res-  ponsibility was not to propose a solution myself,  or to mediate between conflicting proposals, but  to consult the delegations in order to clear the at-  mosphere and create a feeling of understanding and  solidarity for the cause of Unesco, with a view to  finding a basis for the widest measure of agree-  ment on how to resolve the crisis and to decide on  our future course of action. This was my sole  purpose.
(6) We held these discussions on Sunday, Monday  and Tuesday. Throughout, I received unfailing  courtesy, kindness, and indeed graciousness, and  encountered a deep understanding of the problem  and a genuine desire to find a solution. This spi-  rit was universal, and I wish to express my deep  gratitude.
(7) Some delegations wanted the discussions re-  opened, with the hope that the budget ceiling sug-  gested by the Director-General might be restored.  Others wanted the budget ceiling tobe $19,000,000,  and still others wanted it to be $18, 500,000. On  the other hand, some delegations felt they had al-  ready stretched their powers and resources by vot-  ing for the $18, 000, 000 ceiling. Moreover, some  delegations were opposed to reopening the discus-  sion, on the grounds that it would create a danger-  ous precedent. Once a vote has been taken validly,  they believe it should stand, unless exceptional cir-  cumstances arise; otherwise, they fear, doubts  might be cast upon the stability of democratic pro-  cedure in Unesco.
(8) Listening to these varying opinionsI was, how-  ever, heartened by one important consideration.  Every delegation, no matter what its view on the  budget, was anxious to maintain and preserve Unes-  co. All were eager to show the world that Unesco  has not faltered, that it is alive and that it is need-  ed.
(9) Since we all share this feeling, I wonder whe-  ther it would really be wise to reopen the question  of the budget ceiling. In the first place, another  vote would produce the same or almost the same  result; the delegations would feel morally obliged  to vote now as theydid before. In the second place,  even assuming that there were a difference in the  voting, there would still be a narrow majority on  one side or the other; we should again present a  PLENARY MEETINGS  spectable of disunity. This might mean a triumph  for an individual or a group, but it certainly would  not be a victory for the principle for which the Di-  rector-General resigned; above all, it would not be  a victory that would arouse the consciences of the  Member States and the National Commissions,  Youwill recollect what the Director-General said -  that a narrow majority, even for a higher ceiling,  would have distressed him equally. The principle  of Unesco's universality requires general consent  and not marginal victories, and its aim can be  achieved only by the general agreement of all the  countries which voted for or against the $18,000,000  budget ceiling.
(10) My talks with the delegations have led me to  suggest a possible way out of the difficulty. We  should not reopen the question of the budget ceil-  ing; we should accept the ceiling voted by the Con-  ference as valid, and we should instruct the Pro-  gramme Commission to prepare the programme  on that basis. We might, at the same time, in-  struct the Programme Commission to examine  further whether there are any projects or activities  which, although forced out of the programme by  the need to adjust it to the budget ceiling, might  nevertheless deserve to be carried out. We might  call these supplementary projects. In choosing  such projects, the Programme Commission should  not be prompted by any consideration of raising  the budget ceiling. On the contrary, it should be  guided exclusively by the desire to choose abso-  lutely essential projects, without which Unesco  would not be doing its proper task and carrying out  the duties which are the reasons for its existence.  .(11) In choosing such essential supplementary pro-  jects, the delegations which supported the budget  ceiling suggested by the Director-General should  not, I believe, be influenced by the hope of raising  it to that level. On the other hand, the delegations  which supported the budget ceiling of less than  $18, 000, 000 should not dismiss projects merely  because of the fear that they might raise the level  of the ceiling already established. The only cri-  terion should be an objective one: the true merit  and the real necessity of the particular project. If  such a careful and searching examination showed  that there were such essential projects, the dele-  gations which voted for the $18, 000,000 ceiling  would have a strong moral basis on which to appeal  to their governments for further sacrifices. The  budget ceiling already voted should, of-course, be  regarded as binding; but once the Programme  Commission has decided on supplementary essen-  tial projects, the matter should be considered by  the heads of delegations. I hope that the need for  such projects would be so clear that the necessary  means would be voted, not by a majority decision  but by general consent. If there is general agree-  ment, the matter could then be placed before the  General Conference. Our object at this crucial  moment should not be to force the Member States  to give us more money, but to convince them of  - 214 -   PLENARY MEETING-S  the need for Unesco's effective development. It is  not a majority victory that we want in Unesco, but  the readiness of the Member States to give us  money if necessary, even though they may have to  subject themselves to further sacrifices.
(12) After mydiscussions with the individual dele-  gations, I invited all the heads of delegations to  meet in an informal gathering. I presented the  various points of view and the possible approach to  the problem. I am happy to be able to state that I  found once again the same spirit of understanding,  and an eagerness to find a solution which would  make Unesco truly a vital force.
(13) Mr. Torres Bodet's resignation, however  regrettable, has had the effect of focusing the in-  terest of the whole world on Unesco. People are  now thinking more seriously about Unesco than  ever. before, and the sacrifice of the Director-  General will not have been in vain, if Unesco  emerges a stronger and a more vital force for the  world.
(14) I should like to emphasize that I am not pre-  senting any proposal on my own behalf or on behalf  of my Government. I am suggesting, in the light  of my discussions with the delegations, a possible  approach to the problem. I wish to repeat that, in  making this suggestion, I have been influenced by  the paramount consideration of securing the widest  measure of agreement between divergent points of  view. It is for you to determine the future course  of action.
(15) I wish now to refer to the question of the re-  signation of the Director-General. I found in all  the delegations, without a single exception, a  strong feeling that we should not accept his resig-  nation, but, instead, ask him to reconsider it.  Everyone honoured and respected the sincerity  which prompted his decision, but there was pro-  found regret that he had found it necessary to relin-  quish the post in which he had given Unesco four  years of creative leadership. However, all the  delegates agreed that the irrevocable nature of the  Director-General's decision, announced and re-  peated in the General Conference, had to be res-  pected. It was the wish of all the delegations that  the General Conference should pay to Mr. Torres  Bodet some small measure of the tribute which he  deserves, and a resolution to this effect will be  placed before the Conference.
(16) In conclusion, I should like to express deep  and genuine appreciation of Mr. Torres Bodet's  great contribution towards making Unesco a living  force for peace, security and understanding, to-  wards developing education, science and culture  on the international level, and towards their effec-  tive use in the service of progress, social justice  and economic equity. I should further like to ex-  press my firm conviction that the devoted and in-  dispensable services which the Director-General  has rendered as aleader in these great causes will  be an inspiration to all those, in the Organization  and elsewhere, who will endeavour to continue the  I-17  splendid work on behalf of international understand-  ing and solidarity which he has so ably, so coura-  geously, so steadfastly and so self-sacrificingly  carried out.
(17) The General Committee met this morning,  and adopted the following procedure for the work  of the Conference today. The Conference will first  take up the resolution on the resignation of the Di-  rector-General; after taking a decision on that re-  signation, and after a short break, it will consider  the statement that I have made and such comments  as delegates may wish to make.
(18) The General Committee has also instructed  me to place the following resolutions before the  General Conference.
(19) The first resolution is:  "The General Committee recommends the Gen-  eral Conference to add to its agenda, in conform-  ity with Rules 14 and 36 of the Rules of Procedure,  the following item:  Resignation of the Director-General."  This has to be accepted by this Conference by a  two-thirds majority, according to Rule 81 of the  Rules of Procedure.
(20) I would now ask the Conference to indicate its  wishes. Do we adopt this resolution? By show of  hands. Those in favour? ... Those against? ...  Any abstentions? ... Adopted unanimously.
(21) I will now place before the Conference the  second resolution:  "The General Conference
1. Decides to accept the resignation of the Di-  rector-General, which will take effect during the  present session of the General Conference at a  date to be fixed later;
2. Invites the General Committee to present  recommendations, as soon as possible, on the  measures to be taken following this decision, "'
(22) Those infavour of this resolution, please show  hands. Those in favour? ... Those against? ...  Abstentions? ... The resolution is adopted by 39  votes in favour, with 8 abstentions,
(23) The third resolution is:  "The General Conference,  Considering that Mr. Jaime Torres Bodet, Di-  rector-General of Unesco, has rendered the most  admirable services to the Organization in every  way, devoting a tireless energy and all his great  talents to the development of education, science  and culture among the Member States of Unesco;  Considering that, thanks to his fine leadership,  our Organization has in a few years become a bas-  tion of peace and a symbol of international co-  operation and of the advance of allraces towards a  future of concord and happiness;  Declares
1. That the Conference learned with profound  regret of the irrevocable decision of the Director-  General, Mr. Jaime Torres Bodet, to submit his  resignation;
2. That the Conference wishes to paya deep and  genuine tribute to Mr. Torres Bodet for the four  - 215 -   IL=17  years of his creative leadership of Unesco. The  Conference expresses its firm conviction that his  devoted and invaluable services to peace, security  and social progress will be an inspiration to all in  the Organization and in its Member States, who  will endeavour to continue Mr. Torres Bodet's  splendid and self-sacrificing work on behalf of in-  ternational understanding and solidarity. !
(24) At the meeting this morning, the General  Committee decided that a few speakers, selected  from all over the world with a view to geographical  and regional representation, should have an oppor-  tunity to express their admiration and to pay their  tribute before this Conference.  I now call upon the delegate of France.
(25) Mr. Paul MONTEL (France) - (Translation  from the French) Mr. President, ladies and  gentlemen, I have the honour to address you on be-  half of the French-speaking Member States, with  whom Germanyhas expressed a desire to be asso-  ciated. The delegations of these countries wish to  associate themselves whole-heartedly with the tri-  bute paid by the General Conference to Director-  General Torres Bodet.
(26) As Mr. André Marie said in his opening  speech, if Unesco represents the conscience of the  nations, Mr. Torres Bodet has, for four years,  represented the conscience of Unesco. His depart-  ure fills the delegations for whom I am speaking,  and particularly that of France, with great sad-  ness; and not only the French delegation, but the  whole country, for, to us, Mr. Torres Bodet is a  Parisian. With his profound knowledge of our lan-  guage, his ideals, his nobility of outlook and his  immense culture, he has won all our hearts and  filled us with admiration. Although he is going,  his spirit will remain with us. We shall preserve  the memory of the example he has set us of a man  whole-heartedly devoted to his task, to which he  gave himself unsparingly and unreservedly, aban-  doning for its sake much other important work  which was equally worthy of his talents. We shall  remember also his sure approach to all problems  with which he has had to grapple, just as we have  to grapple with them today and shall have again to  face them in the future.
(27) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  France and call upon the delegate of the Union of  South Africa.
(28) Mr. H. T. ANDREWS (Union of South Africa) -  Mr. President, fellow delegates, I have been hon-  oured with the task, the sad task, of speaking on  this resolution concerning the resignation of our  Director-General, by the majority of those dele-  gations in this Conference who use English, and  also on behalf of those members who come from  ‘the African continent. This is a sad task, Mr.  President.
(29) Our Director-General, a great educationist,  PLENARY MEETINGS  a writer, a poet, came to us in a critical period of  our existence, and he proved himself, from the  moment he put his hand to the plough, a man of the  deepest inspiration and the greatest dynamism,  and a splendid organizer. Whatever he undertook,  he enriched, and he laboured for all the purposes  of our Organization with a fervour and an energy  that earned the admiration, not only of our Con-  ference and of our Organization, but of the world.
(30) The purposes of our Organization are to ad-  vance the mutual knowledge and understanding of  peoples, to give a fresh impulse to popular educa-  tion and the spread of culture among nations and,  finally, to maintain and increase human knowledge  of all kinds inthe educational world, in science and  in culture.
(31) Mr. Torres Bodet, in putting yourself to  those tasks over these last four years, you have  created a monument of work of which you may well  be proud. You have left us, Sir, an inheritance  which we shall always cherish; we shall try to con-  tinue in the splendid way in which youhave directed  us. When the day comes to take our leave of you,  Sir, it will be with regret and sorrow in our hearts.  But it is the unanimous wish of us all here that  success may follow you all the days of your life, to  whatever task you may consecrate yourself.
(32) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of the  Union of South Africa and call upon the delegate of  India.
(33) Mr. H.S. MALIK (India) - Mr. President,  fellow delegates, it is a very great honour to be  called upon to speak on behalf of the countries of  South East and South Asia to pay tribute to our Di-  rector-General. It is a very sad occasion, and I  wish to be brief; but I want at the same time to  convey to this gathering something of what I am  sure all of us feel with regard to him and with re-  gard to his resignation.
(34) Sir, Unesco has taken upon itself a tremend-  ous task. In the world of political tension that we  live in, it would be idle to pretend that Unesco has  any immediate remedy to offer or can do anything  really effective immediately to remove the possi-  bility of war. But, undoubtedly, it is Unesco that  has taken upon itself the task of building the very  foundation of lasting peace, even though it may  take years, it may take generations.
(35) To direct such an Organization, it was essen-  tial to have a man of vision, imagination, sympathy  and certainly great ability - a man with courage  and the capacity for leadership, and also the capa-  city for sacrifice. We have seen in what way Mr.  Torres Bodet has shown us his capacity for sacri-  fice. During the four years that he has been in  charge of this Organization, he has made it a  living force. I think we all joined Unesco as an  act of faith, but that faith, Sir, has been trans-  lated into action that has resulted in benefits of  many kinds to many people in many parts of the  - 216 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  world - action that holds out promise of a great  future. I like to think that, in making this sacri-  fice, Mr. Torres Bodet has, in his own charact-  eristic way, rendered a final and a very great ser-  vice to this Organization; he has brought out, in no  uncertain way, the principles that must be held if  Unesco is to function as it was meant to function  and if it is to perform successfully the great task  that lies ahead of it. These principles are: firstly,  that the work of Unesco must go on increasing and  expanding, and secondly, that, although we are a  democratic Organization, this work can be carried  out, not simply by a majority vote, but only if we  have the goodwill and the whole-hearted support of  the very, very great number of the Member States.
(36) Mr. Torres Bodet has brought out these two  vital issues that affect the very roots of this Orga-  nization. I am sure I am speaking for all of us in  wishing him every possible happiness, every poss-  ible success in the life that lies before him. Hav-  ing seen his work during the past four years, we  are sure that, wherever he goes, whatever great  post he holds, he will have close to his heart, and  will work for, the very things that Unesco stands  for. We wish him God-speed in that work!
(37) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  India and call upon the delegate of Lebanon.
(38) Mr. Charles DAOUD AMMOUN (Lebanon) -  (Translation from the French) Mr. President,  fellow delegates, in the name of all the delegations  of the Arab States, of the Middle East and Iran, I  associate myself, as delegate of Lebanon, with the  magnificent tribute paid bythe General Conference  to Mr. Torres Bodet. For once, it is not a figure  of speech to say that emotion prevents us from  speaking. We would simply like to convey to the  man who is about to leave us an expression of the  regrets he will leave behind and perhaps also of  the misgiving we feel at his departure. He has  remained true to his ideal and to himself. All that  need be said about his decision has already been  said, and it is unnecessary for me to repeat it.  For four years, Mr. Torres Bodet, with all his  faith, energy, feeling and intelligence, has given  unstinting service to this Organization, guiding it  towards a brighter future. He has been, in the  fullest sense of the word, the man behind it, and  that is no small thing. Looked at closely, Mr.  Director-General, it is a very great deal.
(39) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Lebanon and call upon the delegate of Colombia.
(40) Mr. Augusto RAMIREZ MORENO (Colombia) -  (Translation fromthe Spanish) The Latin American  countries and Italy have asked me to pay a well-  deserved tribute to Mr. Jaime Torres Bodet on  their behalf. May I begin by saying that I am fully  alive to the disparity between the importance,  prestige and qualifications of those who have en-
11-17  trusted me with this task and the insignificance of  their spokesman; I therefore approach my taskin  all modesty. My only claim to be equal to this  mission is that I have followed Mr. Torres Bodet's  brilliant career from the outset. I remember the  student reviews brought out in Mexico that soon  spread to the whole of Latin America, and the  melodious accents of a new poet whose verse en-  shrined the very quintessence of poetry. As a  politician and a diplomat, he then turned to the  service of his country, in which - as a model  statesman and a distinguished representative of  his country in European capitals - he gave evidence  of those qualities that were to mark him out as a  future Director-General of Unesco. And many  opportunities have I had of admiring, on public  platforms, the striking phraseology, the austere  clear-cut style, the power of expression of a spea-  ker whose sure skill might be compared with that  of the champions inthe Roman arenas, urging for-  ward the mettlesome horses yoked to their chari-  ots.
(41) At the international conferences at which I  have had the honour of co-operating with Mr. Tor-  res Bodet, he has taken his rightful place as a lea-  der, a captain, a warrior in the cause of justice  and peace. I should be doing less than justice to  him, now that he is leaving us, were I to confine  my remarks to his life as a patriot in Mexico, to  his creative activities in the Western Hemisphere,  or even to the constructive work done by him on  the vaster, world-wide plane. His ideal inspired  all his undertakings, without thereby wearing thin,  I venture to say that he had a vast and clear vision  of our present-day world; that, through his know-  ledge, he was able to view the future with a pro-  phetic eye, as was plainly seen in the way he di-  rected this complex and admirable instrument for  the advancement of peace, culture and science that  we entrusted with such high hopes,tohis strong and  loyal hands. As we all know, his work took him  not only to lovely cities and glittering capitals.  Many remote corners of the earth, beyond frontiers  never visited by and unknown to many of us, have  been trodden by this pilgrim, this apostle, this  champion of culture, democracy, freedom and  peace.
(42) In these cruel times, when new demented  Titans are hitting right and left, destroying theo-  ries and doctrines, monarchies and republics, we  have here an islet of hope that offers hospitality to  all those who are passionately seeking new places  in which to plant the banner of humanity, that hu-  manity which seems always to be falling back from  barricades of fear to the trenches of disaster be-  fore the assaults of its most brutal adversaries.
(43) The last sentence of the resolution we have  approved states that Mr. Torres Bodet's" ....  devoted and invaluable services to peace, secur-  ity and social progress will be an inspiration to all  in the Organization and in its Member States, who  will endeavour to continue his splendid and self-  = 217 -   IT-17  sacrificing work on behalf of international under-  standing and solidarity." On all sides we see  strife, animated by hate; but here we have unani-  mity on this model of mankind at its noblest, and  we feel confident that the tribute we now pay him  is not writ in water but will always remain inscri-  bed not only upon the banner of Unesco but also in  men's memories throughout the world for genera-  tions to come.
(44) Mr. Torres Bodet, you know that we are ta-  king part here in no meaningless ceremony for the  observance of customary courtesies. Our feelings  are far deeper. I, for my part, am convinced that  the best way in which we can express those feel-  ings to you, Sir, and the most satisfying to our-  selves, is to take as our watchword this theme:  "Through Unesco, towards the future, towards  peace, culture and freedom."
(45) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Colombia, and now call upon the Director-General.
(46) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL: - (Translation  from the Spanish) Mr. President, ladies and gen-  tlemen, allow me to speak today in the language of  my own country, the language spoken by seventeen  Member States of this Organization, the language  in which they work and love, suffer and hope.
(47) I shall be very brief, for I do not want to keep  you from your debates, which have already been  sufficiently interrupted by my resignation. That  resignation you have decided to accept, and your  acceptance has been couched in the most generous  terms, for which I should here like to express my  profound gratitude.
(48) As I said to you on Saturday, I shall leave  PLENARY MEETINGS  this Organization comforted by the knowledge that,  to the best of my modest ability, I have always  tried to do my duty; my duty towards you, the offi-  cial representatives of the governments participa-  ting in Unesco's work, and participating very effi-  ciently; my dutytowards the peoples, those peoples  in all regions of the world, who long for the econo-  mic, social and cultural progress which holds for  them the promise of freedom and justice.
(49) We may be unable to agree as to the duties  incumbent upon Unesco; but, of our common ex-  perience, I shall preserve intact the memory. of  this solemn hour, when both you and I have accep-  ted, fully and loyally, all our responsibilities.
(50) I thank you, Mr. Président for the perfect  courtesy with which you have conducted this de-  bate and brought us through a situation so difficult  for us all. And I thank you, the delegates from all  the far-flung regions of the world, for the noble  example you have set, not in paying tribute to one  who is unworthy of it, but in giving proof of your  greatness of heart. Thank you also for the confi-  dence which you have shown me during the past  four years. Lastly, I would thank my staff, all  the members. of the Secretariat, for their court-  eous and intelligent co-operation.
(51) I pray that Unesco may one day develop a  programme such as we, who had the privilege of  being present at its birth, dreamed of in London in
1945, and that, notwithstanding all obstacles, peace  may be secured, a peace which through education,  science and culture, will ensure for the world a  destiny worthy of mankind.