PLENARY MEETINGS  SIXTH PLENARY MEETING  Friday, 14 November 1952, at 3.50 p.m.  President: Dr. SARVEPALLI RADHAKRISHNAN (India)  later: Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS (United Kingdom)  CONTENTS  Discussion of the Director-General's Report (continu-  ation): Speeches bythe delegates of Australia, Switz-  erland, China, Philippines, Iran, Indonesia . . . . 92  DISCUSSION OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL’S REPORT  (continuation)
(1) The PRESIDENT -  order. I call upon the delegate of Australia,  Charles Moses.  The meeting is called to  Mr.
(2) Mr. C. MOSES (Australia) - The Australian  delegation would like to associate itself with those  of our colleagues who have already spoken in con-  gratulating the Director-General on this fine report  to the General Conference. Under Mr. Torres  Bodet's able guidance Unesco has undoubtedly  gained in confidence and developed a sense of a-  chievement.
(3) The programme of Unesco is many-sided,  Naturally every one of us has his or her own ideas  as to which parts of the programme are the most  important. But I think that we all agree on one  point: the programme is being administered by a  Secretariat which has developed remarkably in  competence and still retains its strong sense of  mission.
(4) The use and encouragement of non-government-  al organizations to carry out Unesco's programme  is a development which, we believe, should be  extended. We are most interested in the change of  policy by which $180, 000 was allocated directly to  the International Council of Scientific Unions for  scientific purposes, instead of being administered  in detail by officers of the Secretariat. We are in  complete agreement with the development of the  Arid Zone programme. The original conception of  an International Institute for Arid Zone Research  did not coincide with the views of our Government;  but under the present scheme the services of exist-  ingresearchinstitutes are utilized and co-ordinated  through a small committee, and assistance is given  where it is really required. This has yielded most  encouraging results. We commend to the General  Conference the use of such advisory committees  for future projects of a similar nature. At the  same time we are in complete accord with those  other delegations who believe that a greater con-  centration on fewer projects, on the really import-  ant projects, should be the aim of our Organization.
(5) Part of the strength of Unesco lies in the fact  that it is in a better position than any other organ-  ization to do certain very important things. No  other organization is as well equipped as Unesco to  draw the attention of the world to the fallacies of  race prejudice, to bring together educators from  all over the world in seminars on education for  international understanding, to capture the imag-  ination of the nations with a concept like that of  fundamental education, to publish handbooks such  as "Study Abroad", or to conduct international  studies on tensions affecting peace. What other  organization would have been in a position to bring  to their present stages of development such pro-  jects as Unesco!s Agreement on the importation of  educational, scientific and cultural materials, or  its Draft Universal Convention on Copyright? And,  more important, is there any other organization  which is as well placed as Unesco to stimulate and  co-ordinate worth-while activities in the various  fields of education, science and culture among the  nations and among national and international organ-  izations ? We know there is not. Unesco's position  in this respect is not only a source of its strength,  but it also places heavy obligations upon us as an  organization.
(6) The Director-General has rightly stressed the  need for Unescoto have the goodwill of international  non-governmental organization... Many of them  are able to do, and have perhaps for a long time  been doing, things of importance to Unesco which  Unesco could not itself do so well; and it would be  sheer folly on the part of Unesco not to encourage  and assist them to continue doing those things. At  the same time Unesco must,use wisely this power  to encourage and stimulate. We should never
091   PLENARY MEETINGS  attempt to assist organizations unless it is clear  that they are, in fact, making a vital contribution  to the fundamental aims of Unesco.
(7) Without underestimating the importance of  international non-governmental organizations to  our work, we all realize that in the long run the  work done by National Commissions must be far  more important to Unesco. Those who were res-  ponsible for framing Unesco's Constitution were  wise in insisting that National Commissions should  be set up in each State. No other inter-govern-  mental organization has such a comprehensive  plan for a network of national co-operating com-  mittees. There is no doubt that these co-operating  committees are the source of enormous potential  energy to the Organization. In his report, however,  the Director-General says: 'Although there is a  steady increase in the number of bodies set up by  Member States to co-operate with Unesco in carry-  ing out its programme, in many cases their good  intentions outstrip their means". This is, no  doubt, unhappily true. The problem is one which  must be faced by Unesco. It cannot be met without  the goodwill and support of Member States, but the  Organization itself can help.
(8) We must realize that there are many things  which National Commissions can do much more  effectively than the Secretariat. Accordingly,  National Commissions must be asked to undertake  tasks; but because, as the Director-General has  pointed out, their resources are often slender, we  must select with care the things which they are  asked to do. We must not forget that some Nation-  al Commissions will have to choose, for example,  between promoting a local seminar or co-operating  in a Unesco press or radio campaign, or perhaps  establishing a working party of teachers on the  subject of education and the world community.
(9) It is the responsibility of the Organization to  help National Commissions to concentrate on the  most important and significant things within their  competence, not merely because those things should  have first claim on their resources, but also be-  cause it is only when National Commissions come  to grips with important tasks that they will gain  prestige and goodwill within their own communities,  and acquire the resources necessary to carry out  their tasks effectively. A National Commission  will never capture the imagination of interested  groups, much less of the general publié, if it is  forced to use its slender resources to provide  statistics and read documents rather thanto launch  and maintain projects designed to promote better  understanding between peoples.
(10) To many people Unesco is an Organization  with headquarters in Paris anda considerable staff,  but we know that it is an Organization of Member  States comprising a General Conference, a Direc-  tor-General and his Secretariat, and National Com-  missions within the Member States. We in Aus-  tralia are anxious that Unesco should be more  effective, but we feel that increased effectiveness  II-6  should not necessitate expansion of the staff of the  Secretariat. It seems to me that the Secretariat  has reached a stage when it can pause in its own  development and turn its efforts towards develop-  ing and expanding Unesco activities within Member  States, through their National Commiss: ns.
(11) During the past five years the programme of  Unesco has been refined and made more realistic,  It is becoming more and more functional, modified  from time to time by the General Conference to  ensure that its work is closely related to the basic  aims of the Organization. Now we must turn our  attention to the National Commissions. They, too,  must be designed functionally in the light of the  basic aims of the Organization and, more import-  ant, made to work. If we refuse to face this chal-  lenge, Unesco will stagnate.
(12) However, there are hopeful signs that the  Organization is determined to meet this challenge,  and I should like to speak of one of them now. I  refer to the Regional Conferences. When the late  Professor Mills addressed the Sixth Session of the  General Conference last year as the leader of the  Australian delegation, he congratulated the Direc-  tor-General on having held the First Regional  Conference of National Commissions at Havana,  and said how much we in Australia looked forward  to the Second Regional Conference to be held at  Bangkok. Professor Mills was a man of wide  vision and sound judgment. He was Chairman of  our National Commission for Unesco from its  inception. Besides being a wise counsellor, he  had a deep understanding of the ideals of Unesco.  We in Australia feel a deep sense of loss now that  he is no longer guiding us; our indebtedness to him  is great.
(13) Hewas rightin realizingthe value and import-  ance of the Regional Conferences. Our delegates  to the Second Regional Conference of National  Commissions, held at Bangkok last year, were  most impressed by its earnestness and purposeful-  ness. They were impressed by what Unesco had  to offer to the peoples of that area. And - perhaps  most important for Unesco's National Commis-  sions - they were especially impressed by the fact  that these peoples had a very great deal to offer to  Unesco.
(14) Many important tasks have still to be tackled  by Unesco. As the Director-General pointed out  in his eloquent speech yesterday, each year brings  an increase of 30 millions inthe world's population.  This constitutes a problem which will become more  serious each year and which will have to be faced.  Perhaps. our programme for the spread of funda-  mental education throughout the length and breadth  of the earth should be viewed against this back-  ground of theworld's rapidly increasing population.
(15) If I refer somewhat critically to one or two  points in the Introduction to the splendid Pro-  gramme which we have before us, it is because we  are hereto consider itin its present form, I there-  fore feel obliged to draw attention to these points.  = 93 -   II-6
(16) Last year the General Conference, in its re-  solution 9.911, requested the Executive Board and  the Secretariat "to indicate clearly, within the  draft programme, the respective degrees of prior-  ity which they consider should be attached to the  various activities of the Organization". The Pro-  gramme states that this directive has been carried  out, and in paragraph 12 we read: "The services  and projects which make up the programme have  been allocated these different degrees of priority,  according as each one of them appearedto conform  to the directive criteria and principles described  above. The essential purpose of the degrees of  priority, following the wish of the General Con-  ference, is to mark different budgetary levels in a  single programme, and it is solely from a budget-  ary angle that they are to be understood". Earlier  in the Introduction, in paragraph 2, we read: "It  is to be hoped, however, that those responsible for  carrying out the programme will be allowed a  certain latitude so that the Organization may not  be tied irrevocably to plans made so far ahead and  may be free to adapt its work to any unforeseen  circumstances that may arise''.
(17) As one of the tasks before us is to allot the  degrees of priority to the various projects and as  the Budget Committee has already examined the  figures relating to those projects, it seems to me  that there should be a more precise definition of  the latitude which should be allowed to those res-  ponsible for carrying out the programme. For  example, what projects approved by this Confer-  ence should be discarded, or to what extent should  approved projects be revised? In terms of money,  how much latitude should be given to increase or  decrease items of expenditure which have been  approved by the General Conference ?
(18) In paragraph 13 of the Introduction to the  Programme, we read: "The present level of acti-  vities is appreciably below that envisaged by the  General Conference for the financial year 1952  when it adopted the Programme and voted the  Budget for the year at its last session". It is  stated that ''considerable increases have been  made in the Organization's expenses as a result  of the rise in prices, and the increase in the cost-  of-living bonus for members of the staff. In order  to meet this increase in expenditure, it has been  necessary to reduce scheduled activities by the  same amount, and as a consequence the activities  being effectively carried out are now below the  level to which the General Conference intended they  should be brought".
(19) One cannot help commenting that a decrease  in activities means a decrease in the work to be  carried out by the staff. This, in any business  organization, would mean a corresponding reduc-  tion of staff to conform with the reduction in acti-  vities. In fact, as the distinguished leader of the  Swedish delegation said yesterday in his excellent  address: "Instead of a reduction of staff we find  that during the year there has been an increase of  PLENARY MEETINGS  staff", in spite of the reported reducted  duled activites.
(20) We are here as a delegation from Australia,  appointed by the Australian Government, a Govern-  ment which is making a very considerable contri-  bution to the work of Unesco, in finance and in  other directions. I do not propose to burden you  with a list of thethings that are being done by Aus-  tralia, but we feel it is our duty, as it is indeed  the duty of each one of us, to see that the most  effective use is being made of every penny which  is being contributed by the Member States to the  maintenance of this Organization of ours. Unesco  is spending very large sums of money, contributed  by a large number of countries, and some of them  are finding it difficult to meet their own contribu-  tions. As the very distinguished leader of the United  Kingdom delegation said this morning, every one of  these nations has towatch its own expenditure very  carefully. Unesco cannot beless careful of expend-  iture than the Member States. Many of them are  already spending, directly or indirectly, consider- .  able sums of money that are not shown in the state-  ment that is here before us, and perhaps itis a-pity  that the expenditure by each country on Unesco  work - I am not referring to the work that is done  directly by Unesco - cannot be shown; I am sure  the total would be far in excess of the $8, 000, 000  that will be spent directly by Unesco this year.
(21) There are probably adequate answers to the  points that I have raised, but they are not apparent  in the Report itself. We do not mention these  matters in any spirit of niggling criticism of this  Organization, which is doing such magnificent  work in bringing together the peoples of the world  in closer understanding, and which is doing so  much to further the great ideals for which Unesco  was first established. May I stress once more, in  conclusion, that we are proud of the achievements  that are reflected in this report. We pay tribute  tothe spirit of devotion which has guided the Direc-  tor-General and his Secretariat in the significant  steps which have already been taken towards a-  chieving the aims of Unesco. We do feel, however,  that the Director-General and the Secretariat have  had to bear the brunt of the work associated with  their achievements. May I express the wish that  Member States, through the National Commissions  which have been set up, may redouble their efforts  to mobilize at the national level the goodwill and  co-operation without which this Organization can-  not hope for an expansion commensurate with the  lofty ideals for which it stands.  in sche-
(22) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Australia and now call upon the delegate of Switz-  erland.
(23) Mr. PIAGET (Switzerland) - (Translation  fromthe French) Mr. President, ladies and gentle-  men, I have only a few short remarks to make on  the Director-General's Report; I do not intend to  - 94 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  waste the time of the Conference with unnecessary  discussion.
(24) I must apologize for beginning with a person-  al matter: our delegation this year has both a  head and a deputy head. The fact is that I have had  the honour to be appointed Professor at the Sor-  bonne, where I opened my course of lectures yes-  terday and this morning; and I cannot, as you will  understand, ask the French Government for leave  of absence in order to represent Switzerland at the  General Conference. I shall still be able to serve  on the Executive Board, whose schedule of meet-  ings is less exacting; but I cannot undertake this  year to lead the Swiss delegation to the Conference.  My friend Pierre Bourgeois, whom you all know,  is therefore the real head of our delegation, al-  though he bears the modest title of deputy head.
(25) To come now to my subject: the Director-  General's Report. This Report, ‘which we are dis-  cussing at these plenary meetings, is, like his  speech of the day before yesterday, a stirring  document. Stirring in its form, in its sober, terse  style, and in the evidence it gives of concentrated  energy and unfailing will to achieve results. Stir-  ring in its content, too. It shows, even more  clearly than last year's report, that Unesco has  really established its right to exist, and is doing  work which has become vital to the entire world.  That work is, in fact, action: Unesco is at present  engaged in training teachers for fundamental edu-  cation, and promoting the extension of education in  general; recently it has succeeded in having a  Copyright Convention drawn up, and promoted an  Agreement on the free circulation of educational,  scientific and cultural materials; it has organized  Science Co-operation Offices, is setting up inter-  national laboratories, and is co-operating in tech-  nical assistance plans. These are but instances of  the many practical achievements that I could quote.
(26) Secondly, Unesco is contributing to the co-  ordination of scientific and cultural work. It has  established the International Council for Philosophy  and Humanistic Studies, a provisional International  Social Science Council, and the International Asso-  ciation of Universities - all of which are already of  great importance, and will become more so in the  future. Unesco has, moreover, set up many very  active associations - with one of which, the Inter-  national Union of Scientific Psychology, I am very  closely acquainted - which would never have formed  themselves into a federation but for the initiative of  Unesco, exercised through a group of sociologists,  such as Klineberg, Cantril, etc., who have been  officials of the Organization in the course of the  past few years.
(27) Many Unesco seminars, missions and confer-  ences of various kinds provide both a stimulant and  facilities for training. Unesco has also initiated  the publication of reviews, such as the handsome  International Social Science Bulletin and others  which I will not enumerate here, and which have  now become indispensable. In the field of culture,
11-6  Unesco co-operates with almost every existing  international institution in the world. .
(28) I feel bound to mention also the strikingly  comprehensive collaboration between Unesco and  the International Bureau of Education, which has  so enhanced the influence of the various inter-  national conferences on public education. These  remarkable successes of Unesco, ladies and gen-  tlemen, are the fruit of a carefully thought out and  minutely planned programme, consisting of the  basic programme you approved at Florence, plus  the annual instalments such as the one we are to  discuss at the present session - and which, inci-  dentally, are in futuretobe submittedat two-yearly  instead of yearly intervals.
(29) For those unacquainted with the past history  of Unesco, this programme may appear too extens-  ive. It is possible, indeed, that the delegates to  the first sessions of the General Conference, had  they possessed the experience of delegates to the  Sixth and Seventh Sessions, might have drafted a  less comprehensive programme. But Unesco is  now committed on all fronts, on which, as I em-  phasized just now, it already has an impressive  number of victories to its credit. Once Unesco  has planted its banner in fresh territory,. it cannot  retreat. Unesco's reputation rests - and this we  must remember - on the fact that it has always  kept its promises meticulously. And then we must  realize that none of the items of the new programme  submitted to you by the Executive Board this year  are in fact innovations; they are merely continu-  ations of previous work, instalments of a general  programme. We cannot interrupt the progress of  work already begun or repudiate our promises,  without profoundly disappointing some section of  public opinion or some group of intellectuals. We  could all, each in his own country, point to items  in the programme which we could forego, which do  not concern us directly. But we must always re-  member that there are other countries, infinitely  larger than our own, which do attach importance  to this or that item.
(30) Unesco's programme constitutes an organic  whole. It may, I repeat, be thought to have grown  too large, but all its organs are sound and the  system functions harmoniously. You are aware  that the ancestor of the modern horse, the horse  we know, was a small animal about the size of a  fox. We may, if we will, regret that the fine  horse of today is so much larger than his remote  ancestors, but no amount of chopping off his legs  or feet, or emaciating him so that his ribs stick  out, will restore him to his original size, or re-  produce any ideal notion of a horse we happen to  have conceived. We therefore hope that the Con-  ference will approve the programme in its entirety,  complete with its A and B priority projects. We  know that some small alterations will have to be  made, and that some adjustments will be necessary  during the next two years. But - and this is the  last point Iwish to make - the conception of priority  - 95 -
11-6  is not absolute, but chronological. For Unesco  there can be no "important" and ''unimportant'  duties; there is but one single duty. All duties  are interdependent, and failure to fulfil the lesser  may prejudice the fulfilment of the greater.
(31) In conclusion, I should like to point out that  Unesco's programme is all the more impressive  when considered in the light of the international,  political, economic and financial difficulties with  which all our countries are contending. But I  persist, for my part, in regarding these difficulties  as an additional reason for proclaiming the ideals  of Unesco. Any retreat or halt in these troublous  times would have very serious implications. Thus,  ladies and gentlemen, the inference I draw from  the Director-General's Report is that we. must  approve the programme for the two coming years  and approve it in its entirety.
(32) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Switzerland and call upon Mr. Li Shu-Hua, the  Head of the Chinese delegation.
(33) Mr. LI Shu-Hua (China) - (Translation from  the French) On behalf of the Chinese delegation,  I wish to say how pleased we are to be in Paris  again, and I welcome this opportunity to greet the  Government and people of France. Once again, on  the occasion of the Seventh Session of Unesco's  General Conference, France is offering us her  generous hospitality.
(34) I wish next to congratulate the Executive  Board, the Director-General and the members of  the Secretariat for the tireless efforts they have :  put forth since the Sixth Session of the General  Conference. The Director-General's remarkable  Report gives us a clear picture of the results of  this sustained effort.
(35) As one of the founder Members of Unesco, the  Republic of China has co-operated constantly with  this great Organization since the 1945 Constituent  Conference in London, which I had the honour to  attend. Chinese cultural circles and educational,  scientific and cultural institutes have always sup-  ported the principles and aims proclaimed in  Unesco's Constitution. ;
(36) We believe it is in this waythat the principles  of the Declaration of Human Rights can best be  spread abroad, so that freedom of thought through-  out the world may be ensured. There are, un-  fortunately, certain regions where man is deprived  .of this natural right by violent means, and where  the most elementary human rights are denied -  where man lacks not onlythe right to express him-  self freely, but even the right to keep silent. It is  to those regions that the principles proclaimed by  Unesco have most to offer.
(37) We consider that one of Unesco's main pro-  jects - education for international understanding -  deserves special attention. In this troubled world  of ours, there can be neither peace nor security  without true understanding between the peoples.  PLENARY MEETINGS
(38) As regards the Unesco programme, I should  like to make a few observations. First of all, we  think it essential that the work of the Organization  should be concentrated on a small number of acti-  vities. It was for this reason that China whole-  heartedly supported the proposal made by the  Director-General at the last session of the General  Conference, to the effect that Unesco should con-  centrate on fundamental education. We are fully  conscious of the importance of this question; we  realize, too, that it calls for very exacting effort  and that, as the Director-General has so rightly  stated in his Report, "Unesco is neither author-  ized, nor has it itself the means, to carry out  mass campaigns''. Unesco's task is thus, in a way,  to provide inspiration. The actual success of this  particular project must necessarily depend mainly  on the efforts made by the governments of Member  States. It is essential to emphasize this fact.
(39) The Chinese Government attaches the great-  est importance to the technical assistance scheme.  A technical assistance agreement was concluded  between Unesco and the Chinese Government im-  mediately after the close of the Sixth Session of the  General Conference, and on various items in this  agreement practical results are being obtained.
(40) We have read with the greatest interest the  Annual Report of the President of the International  Commission for a Scientific and Cultural History  of Mankind; and we should like to pay a very  sincere tribute to the President, our eminent  colleague Professor Carneiro. Chinese civiliza-  tion, one of the most ancient in the world, is not  content merely to possess a heritage of philosophy  and a history stretching back continuously over  many thousands of years; China has also made a  valuable contribution to human progress, by dis-  coveries and inventions in the practical field. Her  attainments deserve to be made known as widely  as possible throughout the world. It is our opinion,  therefore, that this particular Unesco project will  be one of the Organization's most lasting and most.  valuable achievements. Scholars and specialists  in various branches of culture from all over the  world should be called on to collaborate in the  preparation of this universal history of mankind.
(41) In conclusion, we regret that the Director-  General's Report has not followed up the plan to  translate the great books of world literature. The  Sixth Session of the General Conference  recom-  mended that Unesco should consider extending the  programme of translations to other Asian litera-  tures, particularly those of China and India. We  should like to repeat this recommendation, and we  hope that it will be possible in the near future to  implement this project, which is so important both  for cultural interchange and for the development of  international understanding.
(42) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  China and call upon the delegate of the Philippines,  Mrs. Pecson.  - 96 -   PLENARY
(43) Mrs. PECSON (Philippines) - Mr. President,  Director-General and fellow delegates, after the  glowing tributes tothe work of Unesco and the man-  ner in which it has been carried out as shown in  the Director-General's Report, it seems super-  fluous for us from the Philippines to repeat or even  add to what has been so well said. On general  principles, we agree with the appraisals already  made of Unesco's achievements and the orientation  of the work the Organization has planned and put  into effect; we especially associate ourselves with  Mr. Düring's remarks. We are profoundly appre-  ciative of the unstinted devotion to the ideals of the  Organization of the men and women engaged in  carrying out its work, knowing as we do the great  difficulties with which they have had to contend.
(44) We derive much confidence from the fact that  leadership inthe execution of Unesco's programme  has been entrusted to our present Director-General,  Mr. Torres Bodet, for whom the Philippine people  have the highest esteem. In spite of the limited re-  sources with which he has to carry out the heavy  responsibilities assigned to him by the General Con-  ference, Mr. Torres Bodet has succeeded, with the  very able assistance of his associates, in carrying  on with the work in pursuance of our common goal.
(45) The Philippine people would like to pay tribute  also to the members of the Executive Board - ex-  cepting your humble servant - for the big sacrifices  that they have made in serving the Organization  without thought of recompense. We are aware of  their heavy responsibilities in their own countries  ‘and appreciate their willingness to come to Paris in  the service of Unesco. The Philippine delegation  wishes to make these remarks on behalf of the coun-  try we have the great honour of representing.
(46) I should like, with your permission, to raise  a few questions and consider with you what further  practical steps we might take. Let us consider,  for example, the subject of technical assistance.  We of the Philippines feel that this field of activity,  together with the work onfree and compulsory edu-  cation andthe access of women to education, should  “enjoy Priority A.1 in Unesco's programme. In  technical assistance alone, which is barely two  years old, Unesco has this year already no less  than 242 experts working in 38 countries, and 224  fellowships have already been awarded. We have  every reason to be pleased with what has been ac-  complished within so short a time. We of the  Philippines are convinced, as many of youundoubt-  edly are, that, having made such a good beginning,  our Organization may well look forward to meeting  the challenge of the future.
(47) But what, precisely, is the nature of that  challenge? There is, of course, no single answer  that will satisfy all delegates. I feel, however, that  it is necessary to re-examine further the manner  of operation of our many projects in order to make  doubly certain that cumulated and cumulating re-  sults are worth the effort and expense involved and  are consistent with our objectives.  MEETINGS 11-6
(48) This is not the first time in history that tech-  nical assistance has been given to less developed  countries; but much international assistance in the  past was designed to make the recipient nations  more, not less, dependent upon the assisting na-  tions. If some countries are rather wary of tech-  nical assistance programmes, it is because of such  sad past experiences. Fortunately for all of us,  Unesco has established the principle that technical  assistance must be worked out on the basis of making  improved techniques available to recipient coun-  tries - not because Unesco thinks it best, but be-  cause the people want it for their own advancement.
(49) The general question that my delegation wishes  to raise is whether, in our understandable eager-  ness to achieve results and so justify the continued  support of the people, we have not unwittingly over-  emphasized the material side of the programme at  the expense of the often intangible, but nevertheless  very real goals which, by common consent, are the  supreme values of technical assistance. To such  an audience it is not necessary to point out that  under-development is only partly economic. Lack  of technical skills is only one of its factors. Surely  ignorance and illiteracy, disease and poor health,  traditionalism and even fanaticism cannot be ig-  nored. It is important to assess needs in an inte-  grated manner, to discover appropriate ways and  means of meeting them, .and to plan an effective  programme and execute it efficiently. Without the  active collaboration of the recipient peoples on a  level of equality, technical assistance would become  no more thanoutright relief. © What {they need and  ask for isnot "relief", but rather "release" of their  potentialities for advancement and achievement. In  this sense, then, technical assistance will prove  most fruitful when it serves as a catalyser, and  when it taps unused human resources in nations to  be assisted.
(50) This view of the Philippine delegation springs  from our experience as a country receiving aid for  more than four decades previous to the birth of  Unesco - from the United States of America. At  first the Americans wanted to push forward rapidly  and were disappointed at our very gingerly and slow  response, which was due to our doubt as to the de-  signs of our new associates. For, of course, to a  poor fellow the sudden outflow of aid is very suspi-  cious. Realizing that assistance by imposition, no  matter how well meant, was not producing the ex-  pected results, the United States of America  switched to a policy of complete and whole-hearted  collaboration with us, giving us the initiative to de-  termine the direction of our task and the suitability  of the techniques and materials needed to reach our  common goal. This was particularly true in the  fields of education and health. What started as  benevolent paternalism ended as collaboration based  on mutual respect. The results speak for them-  selves; the improvements are there, and our regard  for our former mother country is better felt than  expressed.  - 07 -   II-6 PLENARY
(51) Icome now to our fellowship scheme, within  the technical assistance programme. Just as ex-  perts are sent to work in countries other thantheir  own, so students are sent to study abroad. In the  past the conquered used to send students to the con-  queror; it was largely a one-way stream of influ-  ence. My delegation believes that Unesco is on the  right track in avoiding this one-sided unpleasant  policy of domination.
(52) Nations benefiting by the fellowship scheme  will themselves determine its success or failure.  Since the granting of fellowships is linked with the  sending of experts in the technical assistance pro-  gramme, it seems hardly necessary to point out  that beneficiary nations should award fellowships  to men and women whose place in the programme  has been carefully determined, particularly for its  implementation when the experts leave and the  trained fellows return from their studies to their  home countries. If they are given employment  bearing no relation to the programme within which  their scholarships have been awarded, their train-  ing represents an unjustified expense and an unpar-  donable waste of time. Unesco cannot control this  part of the programme nor does it wish, I believe,  to bring pressure to bear on governments to make  the necessary changes in personnel. This matter  is entirely the internal concern of these govern-  ments. The responsibility, therefore, rests with  those of us here and in our respective countries who  have the power of decision in choosing personnel.
(53) I wishto say just a few words about seminars,  meetings and conferences. The Report of the  Director-General devotes considerable space to a  great number of them. Many are in very highly  specialized fields where only scientists and experts  are concerned. Many take place in areas where the  effects upon the way of life of the people make them  of immediate interest to laymen. Doubtless these  gatherings are of great value, but it has become  increasingly difficult to justify to laymen the neces-  sity for them and to make them feel that results ob-  tained have an appreciable effect upon their welfare.  We are in favour of their continuation, but with em-  phasis on the quality of results. We also feel that  regional seminars, while developing closer collabo-  ration at the regional level, should balance such  regional consciousness with as strong a feeling of  co-operation ata world level. Needless to say, the  seminars are not in themselves desirable unless  the ideas and techniques nurtured in and through  them reach the people. They should be followed by  the setting up of smaller, more localized training  groups to translate ideas into action.
(54) Concerning three techniques of Unesco - the  employment of experts in technical assistance, the  training of fellows and the holding of conferences,  meetings and seminars - I have tried to show how  we might modify procedures, emphasizing in each  case the quality of the results without reducing effi-  ciency in operation. That this can be done cannot  be doubted. If, to achieve ahigher standard of per-  MEETINGS  formance consistent with the goals of Unesco, we  have to increase expenses, let us do so. Appro-  priating inadequate resources with which to meet  a problem, at a level below what is accepted as  effective is not economy; it is waste of the most  unintelligent sort. By all means let us maintain a  high level of work.
(55) The upward swing in the sale of our publica-  tions and the improvement of our mass communi-  cations are greatly appreciated. They indicate: (1)  better promotion techniques; (2) improved quality  of materials; and (3) more consciousness of and  more dependence upon Unesco among Member  States. These two aspects of our activities help us  to understand the work before us, foster closer re-  lations among Member States and between Member  States and Unesco, and therefore make for solida-  rity. We cannot overestimate the importance of  these methods of dissemination.
(66) It is possible that Member States could give  the Organization a little more financial backing  than they are now willing to give, if by common  counsel in this Conference we arrive at a well-  balanced and effective programme. The results of  . sucha programme will be more convincing than any  powers of eloquence shown in our speeches. In the  end, therefore, it is not the operational efficiency  of the Organization, or its success in avoiding all  kinds of pressure attempting to divert its attention  and distort its vision of a free world living in peace  and plenty, that will be weighed in the balance, but  rather what it has done to help people to achieve  happiness and welfare through education, science  and culture. To help Unesco to meet this test suc-  cessfully, I pledge to you, on behalf of the Philip-  pine delegation, the whole-hearted support of the  people of the Philippines.
(57) The Director-General warned us against dis-  couragement in the face of odds. The Head of the  United States delegation said that every year gained  is another year to strengthen the defences of the  mind. The distinguished President of the General  Conference stressed that it is incumbent upon the  entire human race to safeguard the future of man-  kind by having the wisdom of the past and enabling  new peoples and new social classes to enter, through  the doors of science, education and culture, into the  universal brotherhood of man. In the Philippines  we are endeavouring to build, to the limit of our  human and material resources, the defences of  peace in every avenue charted by Unesco. Together  with you, we work towards the ultimate triumph of  freedom. ;
(58) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of the  Philippines and call upon the delegate of Iran.
(59) Mr. G. A. RAADI (Iran) - (Translation from  the French) Mr. President, I should like to begin  by associating myself with the felicitous and well-  merited tributes paid to your honourable self, to the  gracious and hospitable land of France, to our  —‘08;-   PLENARY MEETINGS II-6  eminent Director-General,
(60) May I be permitted, on behalf of the Iranian  delegation, to say a few words about the brilliant  Report prepared by the Director-General, which  forms the subject of our present interesting and in-  formative debate. The outstanding clarity, sin-  cerity, precision and comprehensiveness, together  with its direct approach to the most pressing pro-  blems of mankind, make this Report a working docu-  ment of paramount value. It has been said that the  works of world geniuses like ''Shakespeare',  "Goethe and "Hafiz reflect all the innumerable  aspects of human life, like giant prisms, one sur-  face of which may conceal the others from our  sight. Unesco, with its many-sidedness and the di-  versity of its activities, also, I think, lends itself  to this comparison. People whose particular spe-  ciality, intellectual leanings and daily work bring  them into touch with only one aspect of Unesco's  work often tend to lose sight of the general sum of  its activities, directed as these are towards the  same end. One of the great merits of the remark-  able Report before us is that it obviates this very  real danger. It deserves to remain, long after the  present Conference is over, a valuable guide and  work of reference for both the general public and  the world's intellectual leaders, and also for those  who, as members of governments, of National Com-  missions and even of the Secretariat, are making  an immediate contribution to Unesco's work.
(61) The picture it gives of Unesco in action  shows that the Organization has to its credit suc-  cesses, as well as half successes, in all domains.  On the first category - the successes -"there is no  need to dwell at length; the facts speak for them-  selves and call for no comment. As regards the  failures and half successes, I should like to make  a few remarks, not with the idea of bemoaning the  past, but in order modestly to place practical ex-  perience at the service of the future. I need hardly  say that, since Unesco is not an abstraction but is  composed of peoples, Member States, the Secre-  tariat, the Executive Board and the General Con-  ference, any criticism or any praise must apply  collectively to the Organization as a whole.
(62) Let us take first a few of the main sources of  our difficulties. We shall leave aside the time fac-  tor, over which we have no control; nor shall we,  for the moment, speak of political unrest, against  which any progress Unesco can make must neces-  sarily be slow and gradual, albeit sure.
(63) The inadequacy of the means of action and the  financial resources of our Organization has, it is  true, been evoked time and time again. We wish,  nevertheless, to state it as our considered opinion  that there does exist a striking disparity between  the means at Unesco's disposal and its present and  future aims. This statement may appear presump-  tuous and untimely coming from the delegation of a  country which is at present facing a series of excep-  tional economic difficulties; but the fact that we are  unfortunately unable, for financial reasons, to make  and to his associates. our material contribution proportionate to our  enthusiasm in no way prevents us from recognizing  what is true in the international field generally.  My country, struggling, in obedience to the prin-  ciple of national self-determination, to regain  its economic independence, and to use that inde-  pendence in the service of social progress, is  showing ever-growing appreciation of the prin-  ciples of the United Nations and the liberating work  of Unesco.
(64) Another question I should like to raise is whe-  ther Unesco, within the short period of its life and  the limited means at its disposal, has always em-  ployed its resources tothe best possible advantage.  We incline, on the whole, to answer this question  in the negative. We are fully aware that all experi-  ments and all beginnings must necessarily be ac-  companied by a certain number of mistakes. But,  as Mr. Carneiro so pertinently remarked yesterday,  the time of the errors of extreme youthis past. We  find comfort in that assurance.
(65) I should also like to say that there are times  when a method efficient in itself becomes useless  or barren if applied with inadequate resources. I  am thinking of certain surveys or meetings which  may be fully justified if they are followed up by im-  mediate, direct and sustained action, backed by  sufficient resources but which, if there is no logi-  cal follow-up, are open to all manner of criticism.  I cannot but call to mind that character in Persian  folklore who, being unable to pay his tailor promptly  and in cash, always received in mid-winter the  clothes he had ordered for the summer, and "vice  versa"; so that he was forced to wear light clothing  in winter and, at the height of summer, literally to  stifle in his thick winter coat. So we see that pov-  erty costs us dear and sometimes renders enter-  prises, that are useful in themselves, of no effect.
(66) Be this as it may, we should like to see the  choice and application of methods reconsidered and  improvedin some degree, in the light of experience  gained. Thus I think it may be said that, while  Unesco's cultural and scientific activities have, on  the whole, been successful, especially since the  creation of two important Councils for the promo-  tion of international co-operation between special-  ists, one reservation - for us a serious one - must  be made: the most propitious field for this colla-  boration being in Europe and North America, no  effective measures have been adopted to help the  less favoured countries totake an active part in the  scientific and cultural work in question, although  these countries - most of them heirs of great  civilizations - are able and destined to make a  valuable contribution in the future, as in the past,  to the progress of science and culture, and to  make their voices heard in international meet-  ings of specialists, Mankind as a whole certainly  stands to benefit from any progress in this direc-  tion. But it is not too much to say that the pre-  sent methods of arranging meetings and select-  ing representatives, which are essentially based on  - 99 -   II-6 PLENARY MEETINGS  the facilities available inthe more favoured regions,  may well result, albeit unwittingly, in erecting an  impenetrable barrier between the intellectuals of  these regions andthose of the other countries, with  dangerous isolationism, possibly, as the outcome.  One remedy might be to insist that international  federations and unions receiving subventions take  active steps to promote the rapid establishment of  qualified national bodies in the less favoured coun-  tries.
(67) As regardsthe chapter on fundamental educa-  tion and the literacy campaign, it is clear that, for  the reasons mentioned above, almost all the funds  available have been devoted to technical prepara-  tions, except in the case of fellowships and, occa-  sionally, of associated projects. The two funda-  mental education centres set up appear to lie mid-  way between these two branches of activity. While  not denying the absolute or relative value of most  of these measures, we should like to make a few  general remarks.
(68) Asregards documentation and information, at-  tention should be at least equally divided between the  assembling of such information andits use, assimi-  lation and adaptation by Member States. Whereas  the first process might justifiably be slackened,  the second should certainly be speeded up.
(69) Moreover there are some large countries  which, thoughnot belonging to Unesco, have recent,  extensive and varied experience of literacy cam-  paigns; they embarked on these campaigns in con-  ditions similar, in many respects, to those now  existing in most of the countries that are at present  grappling with this problem. It is high time that  Unesco made greater efforts to assemble substan-  tial. information on such experience, information  which most of the international specialists dealing  with the problem do not at present possess. We  hope this suggestion will be welcomed. It might  perhaps represent a first step towards that kind of  universality for Unesco which is so great a need of  the present-day world.
(70) The system of associated projects on the na-  tional level would appear to have good prospects,  better prospects even than that of a world network  of fundamental education centres. Without going  into details, we should like to see this system ex-  panded with the aid both of ordinary programme re-  sources and technical assistance resources; we  should also like to recommend that there be more  flexibility in its principles, that its fields of appli-  cation be increased, and that it be expanded so as  to cover the promotion of compulsory education.  There is little doubt but that the extension of the  system would contribute from many angles to the  establishment and gradual development of the funda-  mental education centres planned for the network,  and help to overcome the obstacles which the scheme  is at present encountering and with which you are all  familiar.
(71) As regards Unesco fellowships, special atten-  tion needs to be paid to the question of increasing  their number, extending their period of validity and,  in certain cases, awarding fellowships to teams of  persons working in the same field so as to enable  them to make a joint, and hence more effective,  contribution to progress in their native country.
(72) The scheme of technical assistance to under-  developed countries is plainly one which, if suec-  cessful, will have beneficial effects not only on  these countries themselves but on the more favoured  countries as well. The chances of success. must  notbe prejudiced by over-rigid methods or by fail-  ure to appreciate local conditions. In this respect,  the Organization should be warned against the ex-  cess of "technical refinement" displayed by certain  experts, which often makes it impossible for the  beneficiary countries to co-operate. In the words  of an Eastern sage, "when a house is being devoured  by flames, it is useless to demand distilled water  in order to extinguish the fire". What I mean is  that we must make use of all resources available  on the spot.
(73) As regards teaching about the work of Unesco  and the United Nations, or education for living in a  world community, I shall confine myself for the  moment to one remark - that, to be effective, it  must be based mainly on facts and examples.
(74) Mr. President, the fateful issues now being  played out around mankind, the conflicts by which  we are torn, and the causes we have for hope have  already been depicted sufficiently vividly by you  yourself, by the Director-General, and by our dis-  tinguished colleagues. I would merely, in conclu-  sion, quote the ancient but immortal words of the  great Persian poet, Hafiz of Shiraz:  "Upon your eager pilgrimage to Mecca  Fear not the thorns.  Though the road is dangerous, the goal far off,  No road is endless;  Take comfort and advance."
(75) The PRESIDENT - Ithank the delegate of Iran  and call upon the leader of the Indonesian delegation,  Mr. Agung Gde Agung. Sir Ben Bowen Thomas will  take the Chair.  The Chair was taken by Sir Ben Bowen Thomas  (United Kingdom), Vice-President.
(76) Mr. AGUNG GDE AGUNG (Indonesia) - Mr.  President, first of all, on behalf of the Indonesian  delegation, I should like to say how grateful we are  for the very clear explanatory report of the  Director-General concerning the many achieve-  ments of Unesco in the past year, and the projects  it has in mind for the coming years. One cannot  fail to be impressed by the courage shown in these .  far-reaching and well-balanced projects when one  studies the Unesco Draft Budget and Programme  for the coming years, with its remarkable picture  of the activities it envisages.
(77) Before we look forward and attempt to trace  - 100 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  the path which leads to our common goal, I think it  might be opportune to cast a glance backwards and  consider the developments made during the six years  of Unesco's life. Each year, it gives us renewed  courage to hear the opening speech of the Director-  General, to realize the progress made by our Or-  ganization and to witness the favourable balance  sheet of its activities.
(78) Many events have taken place since Unesco  was set up. Prompted by optimism and an aware-  ness of the future, the founders and signatories of  Unesco's Constitution six years ago took the daring  initiative of setting up this world Organization with  the aim of promoting peace among peoples through  "mutual understanding and a truer and more per-  fect knowledge of each other's lives'. Despite the  uncertainty which is the characteristic of our pre-  sent times, the increasing discouragement which  has overcome so many, and the dwindling of hopes  for a better world in the future, I see in Unesco at  this present stage the only instrument capable of  bringing nations together and fostering true colla-  boration in the intellectual field. Ideological con-  tacts in the fields of culture and science know no  frontiers or obstacles. Differences in race and co-  lour are no obstacle; on the contrary, they make  for greater universality.
(79) My Government has confidence in the lofty  ideals of Unesco, since Unesco makes it its duty to  strengthen ideological contacts amongst all peoples  and nations, and aims to promote a true, tangible  and close collaboration inthe fields of science, cul-  ture and education. These ideals, to whose reali-  zation 65 nations have pledged themselves, have re-  kindled in the hearts of many people hopes for a  better world; despite the uncertainties of a tense  world they have revived confidence in the construc-  tive abilities of mankind. For this reason the Indo-  nesian delegation considers it an honour to partici-  pate in the work of this Organization; it is convinced  that only through international co-operation in the  field of culture can we hope for abetter future in a  better world, a world where there is peace and  freedom for all.
(80) Sixty-five nations. with different cultural back-  grounds and different concepts of life, co-operate  within the framework of this international Organi-  zation. Too often, little is known in other countries,  especially in the West, of the peoples of Asia, des-  pite their ancient cultural heritage. It is equally  true that, although these peoples, before their exis-  tence as independent nations, had had contacts with  the West and had been submitted to outside cultural  influences, free contacts based on reciprocity are  of quite recent development.
(81) My countrybelieves in the usefulness and ulti-  mate success of these cultural exchanges amongst  countries and peoples, especially of those between  East and West, so strongly that it has applied itself  to adapting alien cultural elements to our own cul-  tural heritage. We in Indonesia believe that this  cultural exchange can onlyadd to the culturalheri-  II-6  tage of a people, provided that the roots are pre-  Served and that the bonds linking a country's past  with the present are maintainedas far as possible.  My delegation, therefore, rejoices in the achieve-  ments of Unesco in the field of cultural exchange,  as well as in its endeavours to extend the possibi-  lities of rapprochement!’ of peoples and nations.
(82) The Indonesian delegation is impressed bythe  excellent Report of the Director-General concern-  ing Unesco's activities during the past year and by  the programme for the financial year 1953-54. I  do not intend to comment on this Report in detail  at this plenary meeting, but hope tohave the oppor-  tunity of doing so duringthe debates of the working  committees in which I expect to participate. I  should just like to be allowed to make some gene-  ral remarks concerning this Report. It is only  two years ago that Indonesia entered, as a free na-  tion, the world community. I shall not relate here  the circumstances in which the Indonesian people  gained their independence, but it is a fact that my  country is now confronted with a tremendous task  of reconstruction. A new Indonesian community  has been born; it will be vastly different from the  old colonial community, and will have a different  state of mind. This change of mind can be attained  only through an extensive and well thought out pro-  gramme of education, and, in the first stage,  through the establishment of universities and peo-  ples' libraries. My Government views the work of  this Organization enthusiastically because it is be-  ing assisted by Unesco in the accomplishment of  this tremendous task of education and relief, for  greater well-being and a higher standard of living  for the Indonesian people. I must confess that a  great many things remain to be done in this field,  for the colonial period has left in its wake many  problems concerning the education of the people.
(83) We have to direct our efforts to the fight  against illiteracy (which reaches the high figure of
81%), to the development of a civic spirit and the  consciousness that the Indonesian is a member of  an independent nation trying to establish a way of  life which is a national conception, based on hum-  anity, democracy, social justice and belief in God.  Although my Government is doing its utmost, its  efforts are still insufficient, for we have not the  necessary technical equipment to fulfil this task  satisfactorily.
(84) The Indonesian delegation brought this prob-  lem to the attention of Unesco at the sessions of the  General Conference of Unesco held in Florence and  Paris, and would like to underline its importance  once again. I cherish the hope that this year's bud-  get will take into account our need for more mate-  rial and technical assistance. Mr. President, a  country like Indonesia, which has just acquired its  independence, has many difficulties to overcome.  I shall not go into a dry enumeration of them all.  I have only mentioned one of them to illustrate my  point. To overcome these difficulties common to  newly independent countries, allow me to suggest  =1101 =~   II-6  an efficient working method for Unesco. It is nec-  essary to send a team of technicians from Unesco  to the newly independent States to ascertain the  needs of the governments concerned. National  Commissions and teams of Unesco workers might  work together to ascertain the needs and difficul-  ties of a country on the spot. This system makes  it possible to elaborate a programme concerned  with the most urgent needs. We are pleased,  therefore, thatduring the Sixth Session of the Gene-  ral Conference a resolution was adopted whereby  the different Member States were asked to report  to the Organization on their implementation of the  decisions taken by Unesco. I should like to ask  the Secretariat to send more technical assistance  to the countries concerned, to study and investi-  gate their difficulties on the spot.
(85) Another point whichI should like to raise con-  cernsthe recruitment of the staff of the Secretariat.  Article VI of the Constitution has already outlined  the rules to be followed. However, I should like to  know whether it would not be possible to give  greater opportunities to nationals of the newly in-  dependent States. This would make it possible for  them to become acquainted with the working system  and organization of Unesco. On their return home,  these nationals, equipped with their new knowledge  and experience, would be able to contribute more  effectivelyto the work of Unesco in their own coun-  tries; thus better results would be achieved.
(86) At this plenary meeting I have confined my re-  marks and suggestions to considerations of a gene-  ral character. I hope to be able to go into more  detail at the meetings of the various working com-  mittees.
(87) Unesco is now entering upon its seventh year  of existence. In these times of great uncertainty I  dare not make prophecies. There will come atime  of prosperity and happiness for mankind. But in  PLENARY MEETINGS  the meantime we are threatened by many unknown  forces which might lead our civilization to its doom  and bring about the disappearance of all human va-  lues. Let us not be frightened by this picture, nor  deterred from the course which we have taken: to  bring all peoples closer together, without regard  for race, creed or colour, in order to reach peace,  prosperity, happiness and freedom for all. Only a  high ideal born of strong convictions will give us  the courage to succeed in our efforts. With these  convictions in mind, my Government will co-operate  closely with Unesco, and offer the assistance needed  to carry out its programme. The Indonesian dele-  gation considers that itis in this Organization above  all that nations show their goodwill for a common  cause - that is, the establishment of universal co-  operation amongst nations, in the spheres of  science, education and culture. It is a common  task, as I mentioned above. It does not depend  merely on a magnificent programme, but depends  a great deal on the conviction in our hearts. We  are working together in this sphere of mutual and  equal esteem for the maintenance of human dignity  and human civilization. I was very impressed by  the address of the Chairman of the Executive Board  yesterday; he referred to the work of Unesco as  "une oeuvre de joie where every Member State  has the responsibility of developing the intellectual  and moral heritage of man. Mr. President, in  this sincere address the Indonesian delegation finds  the creed for the work of Unesco in the future.
(88) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Indonesia. As there are no more names on the list  of speakers for this afternoon, I declare the meet-  ing closed.  The meeting rose at 5.25 p. m.  - 102 -