PLENARY MEETINGS  appointment of a permanent Director-General and  discussed the procedure to be followed for this el-  ection, and I am to place before you the following  resolution:  "The General Conference,  Taking note of Article VI.2 of the Constitution,  Taking note of Rules 5, 6, 15 to 18, and 99 to 102  of the Rules of Procedure of the General Confer-  ence,  Taking note of Rule 52 of the Rules of Procedure  of the Executive Board,  Considering that the General Conference, at its  Seventeenth Plenary Meeting, decided to accept  with regret the resignation of Mr. Jaime Torres  Bodet as Director-General of Unesco,
1, Decides that the resignation of Mr. Jaime  Torres Bodet from the post of Director-General of  Unesco shall take effect from midnight on Monday,
2. Instructs the Executive Board to take the  necessary steps, in accordance with Rule 52 of its  Rules of Procedure, to invite Member States to  suggest to it the names of persons who might be  considered for the post of Director-General;
3. Invites the Executive Board, as established  after the close of the Seventh Session of the Gene-  ral Conference, to proceed to the choice of a can-  didate in conformity with the provisions of Rule 52  of its Rules of Procedure;
4. Instructs the Executive Board, as established  after the close of the Seventh Session of the Gene-  ral Conference, to convene in due course an extra-  ordinary session of the General Conference, for  the election of the Director-General. "
(5) This resolution is now before you. I shall ask  Sir Ronald Adam, the Chairman of the Executive  Board, to explain to you the foreseeable time-table  implied in this resolution.
(6) Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom), Chair-  man of the Executive Board - Mr. President, fel-  low delegates, if this General Conference instructs  the Executive Board to act under paragraph 2, we  should be able to send the letters to Member States  tomorrow. We propose to give Member States two  months to reply - that is, answers should be in by
2 February. It will then be for the new Executive
11-19  Board, as elected by this Conference, to take fur-  ther steps, and they are problematical. It will  probably be necessary to allow an extra month  from 2 February, because all Member States may  not reply at once and reminders may have to be  sent out. Again, certain details in the curricula  vitae may have to be checked, and the new Execu-  tive Board will probably not be able to meet before  early March,
(7) The Board, having made up its mind, has to  send out the agenda thirty days before an extraor-  dinary session of the General Conference can be  held. That would bring us to early April; but I  think it is advisable not to make anything more  than a general guess, because it may take more  time. I think, however, we should be able to hold  the extraordinary session in April or, at the lat-  est, May.
(8) The PRESIDENT - Are there any observations  on this resolution?... I take it that this is adop-  ted unanimously? ... Adopted. I now call upon -  Mr. Taylor.
(9) Mr. John W. TAYLOR (Deputy Director-Gen-  ral) - Mr. President, fellow delegates, about two  years ago I attended a Board meeting in my Uni-  versity in Louisville, Kentucky. I had been asked  by the Executive Board and the Director-General  of Unesco to accept the position of Deputy Direct-  or-General. I told my Board that with my back-  ground, no matter when a call like that came, I  felt that I should have to accept it, and I resigned  my charge at the University of Louisville.
(10) In my opinion noorganizationhas ever existed,  or is likely to exist, which can do the kind of thing  for the world that Unesco can do. I have complete  faith in our programme and in our future. I stand  before you humbly to take up the task thathas been  entrusted to me for this short time. I feel certain  that I can count upon all the members of the staff,  from the Directors to the Secretaries. I can only  thank you for the trust that has been placed in me,  and hope that I can discharge the duties that you  have placed upon me to your entire satisfaction.  The meeting rose at 10.25 a, m.  - 221 -   II-20 PLENARY MEETINGS  TWENTIETH PLENARY MEETING  Friday, 5 December 1952, at 3.30 p.m.  President: Mr. S.M. SHARIF (Pakistan)  CONTENTS  Report of the Administrative Commission on amend-  ments to the Constitution and to the Rules of Proce-  dure necessitated by the adoption of the system of  biennial sessions of the General Conference .  REPORT OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION ON  AMENDMENTS TO THE CONSTITUTION AND TO THE  RULES OF PROCEDURE NECESSITATED BY THE  ADOPTION OF THE SYSTEM OF BIENNIAL SESSIONS  OF THE GENERAL CONFERENCE
(1) The PRESIDENT - The twentieth plenary mee-  ting is now open. The item for discussion this aft-  ernoon is item 15 of the Agenda. I request Mr.  Luther Evans to present to the General Conference  the report of the Administrative Commission deal-  ing with amendments to the Constitution.
(2) Mr. Luther EVANS (United States of America),  Chairman of the Administrative Commission - Mr.  President, fellow delegates, the report of the Ad-  ministrative Commission on the amendments to be  made to the Constitution as a result of the adop-  tion of the principle of biennial sessions of the  General Conference is before you. It is document
7C/ADM/47. As Chairman of the Administrative  Commission, I wish to give warm thanks to the  Legal Committee, presided over by Mr. Hagui-  wara of Japan, for the assistance it gave us in the  drafting of these proposed amendments. I wish to  thank my colleagues of the Administrative Com-  mission, who treated me with great kindness, but  also with very great firmness - they overruled me  on two very important points of order!
(3) * The amendments which we are presenting here  are based upon amendments proposed bythe Exec-  utive Board in accordance with the instructions it  received from the Sixth Session of the General Con-  ference, and upon amendments presented by Mem-  ber States; we ourselves introduced some addition-  al amendments which seemed to us to be matters  of form rather than matters of substance.
(4) As you will note in the last paragraph of the  first page, we did not wish the amendment we are  proposing to you on transitional measures to be  regarded as a precedent binding the General Con-
222  ference. If is quite clear that Member States and  the Executive Board were not able to foresee in  detail all of the possibilities of transitional meas-  ures. The Commission finally recommended these  transitional provisions by an overwhelming majo-  rity vote - by far more than a two-thirds vote.
(5) Our first amendment, in Annex I, is to Article  IV, paragraph 3, of the Constitution, where we  have slightly rewritten the present text to put an  "or" instead of an "and" after "the sciences and  humanities" and before "the dissemination of know-  ledge".
(6) In Article IV, paragraph 2, of the Constitution  we read: ".... programmes drawn up by the Exe-  cutive Board". We are recommending that the Di-  rector-General shall draw up the programme, and  so it is necessary to amend this phrase to read:  "programmes submitted to it by the Executive  Board".
(7) In Article IV, paragraph 5, which speaks of  our relations with the United Nations, we wish to  say: "Subject to the provisions of Article V, para-  graph 5 (c)", which appears below. This is a mi-  nor amendment containing no important changes of  substance or policy.
(8) In Article IV, paragraph 8 (b) we make a  change, entirely resulting from the principle of  biennial sessions. The rule we propose is that a  Member State cannot vote in the General Confer-  ence, except by extraordinary measures taken by  the Conference itself (such as have been taken in  the past two sessions), if the total amount of con-  tributions due from it exceeds the total amount of  contributions payable by it for the current year  and the immediately preceding calendar year. :
(9) In Article IV, paragraph 9, we have to make  changes due to the fact that the Conference will  meet in ordinary session every two years and not  annually. According to the present Constitution,  the General Conference is summoned -by the Exe-  cutive Board; we should like to empower it also to  - 222 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  convene itself - as this Conference is deciding to  meet in the spring in extraordinary session - or  on the demand of one-third of the Member States.  This amendment was circulated well in advance of  this Conference, and is thus in order. The loca-  tion may be decided by the General Conference, or,  if it fails to do so, by the Executive Board; this  means that if one-third of the Member States ask  for an extraordinary session the Executive Board  still decides the location.
(10) In Article V, paragraph 1, we replace "eigh-  teen members of the Executive Board by "twenty".  This is one of the most important provisions which  we are recommending to you. We recommended it  on the grounds that the membership of Unesco has  greatly increased since the First Session of the  General Conference, and we think it desirable to  have more members on the Executive Board in  order to have more adequate representation of the  Member States at any given time. This is the first  matter of real substance, of policy, which we are  proposing to you.
(11) Article V, paragraph 3, is rewritten to change  the term of office of the members of the Executive  Board from roughly a three-year period - depend-  ing upon when the sessions are held - to a period  of approximately four years, again depending upon  when the sessions are held. We retain the provi-  sion that members are eligible for a second term,  but shall not serve consecutively for more than two  terms. The only change, there, is that a person  may now serve eight years, instead of a maximum  of six years allowed formerly. We have to alter  the number of members of the Board elected at  each session of the General Conference from one-  third to one-half, as a result of the change from  an annual system to a biennial system, and from a  three-year term to a four-year term.
(12) The next amendment relates to Article V,  paragraph 5, of the Constitution, which is replaced  by a longer Article, and here there are two impor-  tant matters of substance. One is the redefinition  of the functions of the Director-General and the  Executive Board concerning the execution of the  programme and the budget. These are covered in  paragraphs (a) and (b) of item 8, and also in item
12, which refers to Article VI, paragraph 3. In  item 12, add that the Director-General "shall pre-  pare for submission to the Board a draft prog-  ramme of work for the Organization with corres-  ponding budget estimates.
(13) Coming back to item 8, we see that the Board  shall prepare the agenda for the General Confer-  ence, which is a provision found in the present  Constitution. We say it shall examine the prog-  ramme and the budget estimates prepared by the  Director-General and shall submit these with re-  commendations to the General Conference. Then  we say the Executive Board shall be responsible  for the execution of the programme adopted by the  Conference, which is the same wording as at pre-  sent; but we add a second sentence in which we say  II-20  à little more precisely what is meant: subject to  the decision of the General Conference, "the Exe-  cutive Board shall take all necessary measures to  ensure the effective and rational execution of the  programme by’ the Director-General". This ac-  knowledges, as the Constitution does not acknow-  ledge in quite such specific terms, that the execu-  tion of the programme is the responsibility of the  Director-General, but that nevertheless the Board  has a responsibility to the Conference to see that  the Director-General executes the programme in  an effective and rational manner. This constitutes  the first idea of change contained in this amend-  ment. Sub-paragraph (c) does not contain very im-  portant changes of substance or policy, but it gives  to the Executive Board certain powers in relation  to the United Nations between sessions of the Gen-  eral Conference. This, however, is subordinated  to decisions taken by the General Conference, so  that the Board would always be acting within the  framework of the instructions of the Conference.
(14) Item 9 relates to Article V, paragraph 9, of  the Constitution. We have to change the system of  reporting to some extent. So far we have had an  annual report based upon annual sessions of the  General Conference; now we need something bet-  ween the sessions, which meet every two years.  We therefore ask the Director-General to report  to each session of the Conference on what has hap-  pened in the past two years; but, in the intermedi-  ate years, between sessions, the Director-General  reports to Member States on the activities of the  Organization during the previous twelve months.  This does not seem, to the Administrative Com-  mission, to raise any difficulties at all.
(15) In item 10, we also allow the Executive Board  to request advisory opinions from the International  Court of Justice on legal questions arising within  the field of the Organization's activities. The  change there is only a slight one.
(16) We now return to item 12, in which an addi-  tion is made to paragraph 3 of Article VI of the  Constitution; it defines the functions of the Direct-  or-General in accordance with the amendment to  Article V, paragraph 5, concerning the responsi-  bilities of the Director-General and the Executive  Board for the draft programme and budget estim-  ates. In this Article dealing with the Director-  General, it is necessary to stipulate what his du-  ties are in relation to the programme and budget:  "He shall formulate proposals for appropriate ac-  tion by the Conference and the Board, and shall  prepare for submission to the Board a draft pro-  gramme of work for the Organization with corres-  ponding budget estimates. The programme and  budget estimates must be submitted to the Confer-  ence by the Executive Board; but, in submitting  them, the Executive Board may make its comments  and recommendations. We think that clears up  some difficulties existing at present as to who is  really responsible before the Conference for the  programme and budget documents. So far the Ex-  - 223 -   IT-20  ecutive Board has been responsible for the pro-  gramme, and the Director-General has been res-  ponsible for the budget estimates. In actual prac-  tice, these rôles have sometimes been reversed,  and the Director-General has presented a pro-  gramme to the Board and the Board has made up  the budget estimates. In the Administrative Com-  mission we felt very strongly and overwhelmingly  that this would be a desirable change and would  clarify the situation.
(17) We now come to the Transitional Provisions.  These provisions will be in effect for only a short  time, namely at this Conference and at the Eighth  Session in Montevideo. This question is somewhat  difficult to understand at the first glance,  hope you will pardon me, Mr. President, if I take  a few minutes to explain it. Under the present sy-  stem, the Conference elects one-third of the Board  members at each session, in addition to any that it  must elect to fill vacancies of persons who have not  completed their terms of office. Six members of  the Board have to be replaced or re-elected at each  session of the Conference, as is the case at this  session. There is also the vacancy caused by the  death of the Italian member of the Board, whose  term of office had not expired; the Executive Board  appointed a substitute to serve to the end of this  Conference. This Conference must elect a mem-  ber for the remainder of the term, which is from  now until the end of the session to be held in Mon-  tevideo.
(18) The terms of office of a further six members  are due to expire in 1953. However, since there  is to be no session of the General Conference in
1953, we shall have to decide something about  these six seats. We have several choices. We can  end their terms now, reducing them by one year.  We can extend all the terms until Montevideo, mak-  ing them a year longer. Or, we can end half now,  and half in Montevideo. We agreed, after long  discussion, that the best solution, in the interest  of the moral rights of the members themselves,  was to allow them to serve at least their three  years, and, in the interest of the continuity of the  Executive Board, to recommend that all of those  members whose terms of office end in 1953 should  be allowed to serve to the end of the Montevideo  Conference. That is expressed in one of the para-  graphs before you. These members will be re-  eligible at Montevideo if they have not served  more than their four-year term. Of the six mem-  bers elected in 1951, we propose that four shall  retire at the end of the Eighth Session, and that  two of them shall continue in office for another two  years. The reason for this proposal is to fall into  step with the system of electing ten members out  of the twenty at each session of the General Con-  ference for four-year terms.
(19) Now we propose two new members of the  Board, to be elected at this session, and we sug-  gest that, by lot, one of them should have a two-  year term, and the other a four-year term; in  and! °  PLENARY MEETINGS  Montevideo we shall elect ten people. At this ses-  sion, then, we have to elect eight members: six to  replace those elected in 1949 at the Fourth Session,  whose terms of office are due to expire at this ses-  sion, and two new members to bring the number  from eighteen to twenty; and in addition we have to  fill the vacancy caused by the unexpired term of  the Italian seat, to which I have made reference,
(20) Mr. President, I think that is all I have to  say, but I shall be available to answer questions  if this has not been clear.
(21) The PRESIDENT - I am sure you will wish  me to express our appreciation and thanks to the  Chairman of the Administrative Commission for  this very clear exposition, in his characteristic-  ally lucid and cheerful manner, of the suggested  changes in the Constitution, and the reasons justi-  fying these changes. Before taking up the docu-  ment, item by item, I call upon the delegate of  Japan.
(22) Mr. Toru HAGUIWARA (Japan) - Mr. Presi-  dent, referring to Rule 85 of the Rules of Proced-  ure, I should like to move that the discussion be  divided into three parts: first, everything in Annex  I - except the Transitional Provisions; second,  those Transitional Provisions; and third, Annex II.  I respectfully submit this proposal tothe President.
(23) The PRESIDENT - The Head of the Japanese  delegation, who is also the distinguished Chairman  ‘of the Legal Committee, has suggested that we  should take up this document, not item by item,  but in three different groups. First, Annex I; then  the Transitional Provisions, Article V (c); and  then, Annex II - which is the draft resolution con-  cerning the advisability of revising Section XIX of  the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference.  Is it your wish that we adopt this procedure? I  will now put it to the vote. Those in favour of the  procedure suggested by the Japanese delegate?  Those against? Any abstentions? The proposal is  adopted by 50 votes in favour.
(24) This document is before you. Is it your wish  that this should be adopted? Any comments? I  call upon the delegate of Australia.
(25) Mr. Evan MANDER-JONES (Australia) - I  should merely like to draw your attention to an ap-  parent misprint in Annex I, which ought to read  "Article IV, paragraph 3", instead of "Article IV,  paragraph 9",  -(26) The PRESIDENT - The French version is  correct, and the necessary correction will be made  in the English text.
(27) In accordance with Article XIII of the Consti-  tution, and Rule 81 of the Rules of Procedure, à  two-thirds majority is necessary for the adoption  of amendments to the Constitution. I shall now  put it to the vote. Thosé in favour of the document  - 224 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  containing the proposals as indicated by the Head  of the Japanese delegation? Those against? Any  abstentions? This is adopted unanimously. Fifty-  one voted in favour; none against; and no absten-  tions.
(28) We shall now take Article V C. "Transitional  Provisions'. The recommendation of the Admini-  strative Commission is "Insert at the end of Art-  icle V anew heading 'C. Transitional Provisions'".  (These are given on page 4 of document 7C/ADM/47).  I call upon the delegate of Belgium.
(29) Mr. Louis VERNIERS (Belgium) - (Transla-  tion from the French) Mr. President, if I had had  any idea that I should have to come to the rostrum  to speak before such a large meeting on so minor  a point, I should not have held up my card. I sim-  ply wished to suggest to you, for the sake of what  I might call a tidy presentation of the document,  that the same terms should be used in paragraphs
(13) and (14). In the French version, paragraph
(13) says "augmentée d'une année" and paragraph
(14) "prolongé d'une année". I think it would be  better to select one of the two terms and to say, in  both cases, either "prolongé" or "augmenté" by  one year. That was the only important thing I had  to say on this subject.
(30) The PRESIDENT - I call upon the delegate of  Japan.
(31) Mr. Toru HAGUIWARA (Japan) - (Translation  from the French) Mr. President, I am fully aware  of the importance of an amendment to the Constitu-  tion. Such amendments are particularly important,  as it is always necessary to have a two-thirds ma-  jority in support of them.
(32) The reason why I have asked for this transi-  tional provision to be taken separately is that there  was quite a lot of discussion on this item in the Ad-  ministrative Commission last night. I do not wish  to reopen the question here. Last night in the Ad-  ministrative Commission, I said, on behalf of my  delegation, that, once the decision had been taken  by a two-thirds majority, we had no choice but to  accept the result of the vote. That remark is ob-  viously even more applicable to the decision to be  taken by this plenary meeting. I felt that I had to  say this in the interests of "fair play".
(33) Nevertheless, I ventured, at the same time,  to add a few words to the report of the Administra-  tive Commission, which you will find in the last  paragraph on page 1 of the report. With no desire  to reopen the question, I feel I must draw your att-  ention to the importance of that addition. You know  that, under international law, all international con-  ventions must, in principle, be ratified by the legi-  slative authority or the competent organs of the  Member States. Unesco's present Constitution  provides for a departure from that rule in the fol-  lowing case: when an amendment to the Constitu-  tion has been submitted to the various Member  II-20  States six months in advance, it may be adopted by  the General Conference by à two-thirds majority.
(34) Rules 103 to 106 of the Rules of Procedure,  as adopted at the last session, provide for a fur-  ther departure from the rule I have mentioned: an  amendment to an amendment may be admitted if  circulated, not six months, but three months in ad-  vance. That is our second departure from the ac-  cepted rules of international law.
(35) The question I raised last night in the Admini-  strative Commission related to the United Kingdom  amendment which, whatever its intrinsic merits,  was submitted only at the very last minute,no more  than a few days ago. It does not even satisfy the  provisions of Rule 104, which lays down that sub-  stantive changes in draft amendments shall be com-  municated to Member States three months before  the opening of the session. I emphasized to the  Administrative Commission that it was necessary  to take up a reasonably firm attitude on this point,  for if once we begin to admit exceptions, I feel  there will be no end to them.
(36) Yesterday evening, the United Kingdom dele-  gate said that his proposal was obviously not purely  a question of drafting. I think he agreed that it  raised a question of substance. At the same time,  he argued that the provision in question was sim-  ply a transitional measure which would apply only  to one session of the General Conference, and that,  once it had had its effect, this transitional provi-  sion would automatically lapse. This interpreta-  tion seems to me to be a little loose, for at the  next session, the Eighth Session in Montevideo, a  few members of the Executive Board may quite  well decide that we will have no elections at all and  that we will simply, for that occasion, extend the  terms of office of all the members of the Execu-  tive Board by four years. That is a transitional  provision which can be put forward at any time.  My emphasis on the fact that the rather irregular  vote taken in the Administrative Commission last  night ought not to constitute a precedent is designed.  to avoid any misunderstandings of this sort. That  is the only point I wanted to make. Other delega-  tions are obviously at liberty to reopen the ques-  tion and to propose at this meeting that we go back  to the Executive Board's original draft. I person-  ally, as Head of the Japanese delegation, cannot do  so, I ask the General Conference to note that, if  my delegation accepts the Administrative Commis-  sion's proposal, it does so on the clear under-  standing that this proposal applies only to this oc-  casion and does not constitute a precedent. I feel  that the observance of the provisions of the Consti-  tution and of the Rules of Procedure is, after all,  of more importance than a mere question of ex-  pediency.
(37) The PRESIDENT - I am grateful to the Chair-  man of the Legal Committee for his remarks, and  for explaining the legal and expedient methods of  dealing with this matter. Now to the subject - this  - 225 -   II-21  proposal is before the meeting. Are there any  other observations? We now pass to the vote.  Those in favour of the proposal? Those against?  Abstentions? 38 have voted in favour, 3 against,  with 8 abstentions. The proposal is adopted.
(38) Now the draft resolution which is contained  in Annex II to document 7C/ADM/47 (page 5) is  before the meeting. This is a resolution of this  General Conference requesting the Executive  PLENARY MEETINGS  Board to consider the advisability of amending  Section XIX (Rules 103 to 106) of the Rules of Pro-  cedure of the General Conference. Are there any  observations? Those in favour please raise your  hands. Those against? Abstentions? The propo-  sal is adopted unanimously.  The meeting rose at 4, 40 p.m.  TWENTY - FIRST PLENARY MEETING  Monday, 8 December 1952, at 10 a.m.  President: Mr. S.M. SHARIF (Pakistan)  CONTENTS  Adoption of the amendments to the Rules of Procedure  of the General Conference necessitated by the adop-  tion of the system of biennial sessions of the Gen-  eral Conference  Consideration of the resignation of the Yugoslav dele-  gate from'the Executive Board. . . - . . . ..…  ADOPTION OF THE AMENDMENTS TO THE RULES OF  PROCEDURE
(1) The PRESIDENT - The twenty-first plenary  meeting of the General Conference is called to  order. I request the Chairman of the Administra-  tive Commission to present the report of the Ad-  ministrative Commission on amendments to the  Rules of Procedure necessitated by the adoption of  the principle of biennial sessions of the General  Conference, which is contained in document 7C/  ADM/ 48.
(2) Mr. Luther EVANS (United States of America),  Chairman of the Administrative Commission --Mr.  President, fellow delegates, you have document
7C/ADM/48 before you. Some of these amend-  ments must be adopted before we can proceed to  the nomination and election of members of the  Executive Board. The Administrative Commis-  sion regrets that it has to appear before you a  number of times with fragments of its report; but  this has been necessary in order that the business  of the Conference might proceed in an orderly fa-  shion.  wll ere Te Le 0 226
(3) The first item is an amendment to Rule 16 of  the Rules of Procedure, which relates to extra-  ordinary sessions of the General Conference; this  would permit the General Conference, the Board  or the Member States to suggest items for the  agenda of an extraordinary session. I think this  is a necessary change, in view of the decision we  made that the General Conference, the Board, or  one-third of the Member States may request the  convocation of a session. It is obvious that who-  ever requests it should be able to suggest what the  agenda should be.
(4) Mr. President, do you want to approve this  step by step, or would you like me to present the  whole report? .  -(5) The PRESIDENT - The whole report, and the  General Conference resolution separately.
(6) Mr. Luther EVANS (United States of America),  Chairman of the Administrative Commission - The  next item is a change in Rule 95. The suggested  amendment merely changes the number of mem-  bers of the Board to be elected at each ordinary  session from six to ten, following the amendment  - 226 -