PLENARY MEETINGS II-12  TWELFTH PLENARY MEETING  Wednesday, 19, November 1952, at 3.30 p.m.  President: Dr. SARVEPALLI RADHAKRISHNAN (India)  later: Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS (United Kingdom)  CONTENTS  Consideration of the recommendations of the Executive  Board concerning the admission to the Seventh Ses-  sion of observers from international non-govern-  mental organizations . . 153  Consideration of the recommendations of the Executive  Board concerning the admission of new Members .  CONSIDERATION OF THE RECOMMENDATIONS OF  THE EXECUTIVE BOARD CONCERNING THE ADMIS-  SION TO THE SEVENTH SESSION OF OBSERVERS  FROM INTERNATIONAL NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGA-  NIZATIONS.
(1) The PRESIDENT - We take up item 11 of the  Provisional Agenda: Consideration of the recom-  mendations of the Executive Board concerning the  admission to the Seventh Session of observers from  international non-governmental organizations.  I call upon Mr. Carneiro, Chairman of the Exe-  cutive Board.
(2) Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil), Chairman of the Exe-  cutive Board - (Translation from the French) In  application of Article 4, paragraph 13 of the Con-  stitution and Rule 7 of the Rules of Procedure, the  Executive Board decided, at its Thirtieth Session,  to recommend to the General Conference that the  following non-governmental organizations of an in-  ternational character be invited to send observers  to the Seventh Session of the General Conference:  Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Roc-  kefeller Foundation, Ford Foundation, World Con-  federation of the Organizations of the Teaching  Profession, Universal Esperanto Association, In-  ternational Confederation of Christian Trade Uni-  ons, and International Olympic Committee.
(3) The PRESIDENT - You have heard the Chair-  man of the Executive Board who has moved that  these seven organizations be admitted to the Sev-  enth Session. Are there any observations? I take  it that you approve the recommendations of the  Executive Board? Approved.
153  CONSIDERATION OF THE RECOMMENDATIONS OF  THE EXECUTIVE BOARD CONCERNING THE ADMIS-  SION OF NEW MEMBERS
(4) The PRESIDENT - Item 12 concerns the ad-  mission of new Members to Unesco. The proce-  dure we adopt is to take up the cases according to  the dates of application of the States. Spain app-  lied on 13 November 1951; Libya, on 24 December
1951; Nepal, on 22 February 1952. These were  all submitted to the Economic and Social Council  of the United Nations and approved at its Four-  teenth Session on 21 May; our Executive Board  considered these questions at its Thirtieth Session  on 2 June. The Chairman of the Executive Board  will now move in this order.  I call upon Mr. Carneiro.
(5) Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil), Chairman of the Exe-  cutive Board - (Translation from the French)" The  Executive Board,  Considering that the Government of Spain applied  for membership of Unesco on 13 November 1951,  That, in accordance with Article II of the Agree-  ment between Unesco and the United Nations, the  Director-General forwarded the application to the  Economic and Social Council of the United Nations,  That the Economic and Social Council, at its  Fourteenth Session, decided to inform Unesco that  it had no objection to the admission of Spain to  membership of the Organization,  Decides, in accordance with paragraph 2 of  Article II of Unesco's Constitution, to recom-  mend to the General Conference at its Seventh  Session that Spain be admitted to membership of  Unesco. "  - 153 -   II-12
(6) The PRESIDENT - I will now ask Mr. Mon-  tagnier to read the resolution which, if passed by  the General Conference, would constitute approval  by the General Conference of the admission of  Spain to membership of the United Nations Educa-  tional, Scientific and Cultural Organization.
(7) Mr. MONTAGNIER (Secretary of the General  Conference) - (Translation from the French) The  General Conference,  Whereas the Government of Spain submitted, on
13 November 1951, an application for membership  of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and  Cultural Organization;  Whereas, in accordance with the provisions of  the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference,  Spain has expressed its willingness to abide by the  Constitution; ;  Whereas, in accordance with Article II of the  Agreement between the United Nations and the Uni-  ted Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural  Organization, this application has been submitted  to the Economic and Social Council of the United  Nations; 5  Whereas the Economic and Social Council, at its  Fourteenth Session, decided to inform the United  Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organ-  ization that it had no objection to the admission of  Spain to the Organization;  And whereas, in virtue of this decision, the Exe-  cutive Board, at its Thirtieth Session, decided to  recommend to the General Conference that Spain  be admitted as a Member of the Organization,  Decides to admit Spain to membership of the Uni-  ted Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural  Organization.
(8) The PRESIDENT - The delegate of Peru wishes  to raise a point of procedure?
(9) Mr. V. GARCIA CALDERON (Peru) - I apolo-  gize for speaking now, but I should like to raise a  point of procedure.
(10) (Translation fromthe Spanish) Mr. President,  fellow delegates, I wish simply to state the position  of my country (and the Rules of Procedure entitle  me to do so). It is as follows. In application of  Rule 76, I repeat 76, of the Rules of Procedure of  the General Conference, the Peruvian delegation  asks that we proceed to the admission of new  Member States without debate, and that the voting  take place forthwith by roll call.
(11) The PRESIDENT - Rule 76 of our Rules of  Procedure reads:  "A member may at any time move the closure of  the debate, whether or not any other representative  has signified his wish to speak. If application is  made for permission to speak against the closure,  it may be accorded to not more than two speakers.  The President shall then take the sense of the Gen-  eral Conference on a motion for closure. If the  PLENARY MEETINGS  General Conference is infavour of the closure, the  President shall declare the closure of the debate,"  I call upon the delegate of Israel.
(12) Mr. Maurice FISCHER (Israel) - (Translation  from the French) Mr. President, fellow delegates,  I move the adjournment of the discussion and ofthe  vote on the admission of Spain to membership of  Unesco.
(13) A few words of explanation: before the beg-  inning of this General Conference, my Government  was not opposed to the admission to Unesco of a  country which is the cradle of alanguage anda cul-  ture extending over a large part of the world. Res-  pect for the principle of universality leads most  governments and National Commissions to bring to  the consideration of everynew application for mem-  bership as open and unbiased a mind as.possible.  Most delegations came to Paris with clear-cut in-  structions on the attitude they were to adopt on the  Spanish application for membership. But the mem-  bers of many delegations are now wondering with  considerable anxiety whether their governments,  when taking their decision, were in possession of  the full facts. The Secretariat has received pro-  tests against the admission of Spain, supported by  detailed charges; and the Spanish Government has  furnished explanations. These are matters that all  delegates must be aware of so that they may, if  they consider it necessary, inform their govern-  ments of any conclusions which, emerging from  their study of the question, might cause those gov-  ernments to alter or confirm their previous deci-  sions, as the case may be, in the light of complete  information. :
(14) My delegation therefore proposes: that the  debate on the admission of Spain be adjourned for  ten days; that a Committee of six be set upto study  the protests received bythe Secretariat and the ex-  planations furnished thereon - or to be furnished  later - by the competent Spanish authorities.
(15) This Committee would be instructed to report  to the General Conference in six days' time on its  findings. Delegates would then have four days left  in which to consult their governments and National  Commissions.
(16) My delegation proposes that the Committee  should consist of representatives of the following  countries: India, Italy, Norway, New Zealand,  Turkey and Uruguay.
(17) The PRESIDENT - I wish to make it clear  that, during the discussion of any question, a mem-  ber present may move adjournment of the debate  on the item under discussion. Any such motion  shall have precedence. In addition to the proposal  of the motion, one delegate may speak in favour of,  and one against, the motion.
(18) Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil) - (Translation from  the French) Mr. President, fellow delegates, la-  dies and gentlemen, it is the view of the Brazilian  - 154 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  delegation that the admission of Spain to Unesco  should be dealt with in the same way and in the  same calm and objective spirit asthe admission of  any other Member State. The Brazilian delegation  therefore requests that the debate should remain  open and the question be settled today.
(19) In taking this stand, we wish to point out that,  in the opinion of the Brazilian delegation, it is not  a question of admitting a new Member State to  Unesco by some process incompatible with the  Organization and its Constitution. On the contrary,  the Government of Brazil regards it as a question  of associating in Unesco's work a State which has,  in an official document, stated its readiness to  subscribe to the.purposes and functions of Unesco  as defined in its Constitution, and its decision to  fulfil any duties and obligations which may devolve  upon it as a Member State. We wish, for the mom-  ent, simply to make this declaration, and we ap-  peal to the honourable delegates of Peru and Israel  to ensure that the debate on the admission of these  three new Member States is conducted in accord-  ance with our general practice of free and friéndly  discussion.
(20) The PRESIDENT - One delegate may speak in  favour of the adjournment motion. Does any dele-  gate wish to speak?  I call upon the delegate of Yugoslavia.
(21) Mr. Marko RISTIC (Yugoslavia) - (Transla-  tion from the French) Mr. President, fellow dele-  gates, you already know the position of the Yugo-  slav delegation in regard to this problem, since  the Head of our delegation has already alluded to it  in no uncertain terms. It is not of this that I wish  to speak. I want simply to say that the Yugoslav  delegation at this juncture supports the proposal of  theIsraeli delegation, for it seems to me that, pre-  cisely in order that the debate may be conducted in  a spirit of perfect calm, it is essential that all  delegations should be able beforehand to take cog-  nizance of all the relevant documents. So far, we  have received only a proportion of the documents,  i. e. two letters from the Spanish Ambassador, and  a list of the protests filed. I think it essential that  all delegations should be enabled to familiarize  themselves with the other documents as well.
(22) It is perfectly true that, in principle, the ad-  mission or non-admission of all applicants for  membership of Unesco should be discussed in  accordance with the same rules and procedure, and  in the same spirit. Without wishing in any way to  exacerbate this discussion by the introduction of a  political note, I think it can nevertheless be said,  without fear of contradiction, that the question of  Spain's admission is somewhat different, if only  because this application, unlike any other, has pro-  voked so many protests and such strong feeling  among the organizations of which Unesco must take  account, - and among intellectual circles which  Unesco cannot afford to disregard. 1 therefore
11-12  consider that the least we can do is to accept the  Israeli proposal and adjourn the debate for ten days,  so as, within that interval, to be able to inform  ourselves more thoroughly of all the aspects of the  problem we have to settle.
(23) The PRESIDENT - The motion before the  house is for the adjournment of the debate for a  period of ten days and for the establishment of a  committee of six members to study the protests  made by organizations and individuals, this com-  mittee to include India, Italy, Norway, New Zea-  land, Turkey and Uruguay. That is the motion be-  fore the house. One delegate has spoken for and  one has spoken against the motion. An adjourn-  ment motion takes precedence over a closure mo-  tion, according to Rule 77. So I should like to  have the vote of the house by roll-call on this ad -  journment motion.
(24) The vote was taken by roll-call.  Voted in favour: Burma (Union of), India, Indo-  nesia, Israel, Mexico, Nicaragua, Yugoslavia,  Voted against: Afghanistan, Australia, Austria,  Belgium, Brazil, Cambodia, Ceylon, Colombia,  Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt,  El Salvador, France, German Federal Republic,  Greece, Haiti, Honduras, Iran, Iraq, Italy, Japan,  Jordan, Laos, Lebanon, Liberia, Monaco, Nether-  lands, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Swit-  zerland, Syria, Thailand, Turkey, Union of South  Africa, United Kingdom, United States of America,  Venezuela, Viet-Nam.  Abstained: Canada, Cuba, Denmark, Luxem-  bourg, New Zealand, Norway, Sweden, Uruguay.  Absent: Korea, Saudi-Arabia.
(25) The PRESIDENT - The result is as follows:  against: 41; for: 7; abstentions: 8; absent: 2.  The motion for adjournment is rejected.
(26) The main motion is now before the house. It  is the recommendation of the Executive Board that  Spain be admitted to Unesco. May I, as usual, ask  for a roll-call on the question of admission?  Does the delegate of the Philippines want to  speak?
(27) Mrs. Geronima T. PECSON (Philippines) -  I do not understand what the roll-call is for.
(28) The PRESIDENT - Now, the main motion is  before the house - the main motion for the admis-  sion of Spain, without debate; but the adjournment  motion and even closure of debate may be raised.  It is a question of the admission of Spain accord-  ing to the recommendation of the Executive Board.  That is the main motion.  I call upon Mrs. Pecson.
(29) Mrs. Geronima T. PECSON (Philippines) -  The Philippine delegation is not quite clear as to  what is being discussed at this moment. We under-  - 155 -   II-12  stand that the motion for adjournment has been re-  jected. Now there is the motion of the delegate of  Peru for a roll-call vote without any debate. The  Philippines is in favour of that motion of the dele-  gate of Peru, if that is the point that is being called  by the honourable President.
(30) The PRESIDENT - I should like to state here  clearly that, when the motion for closure of the de-  bate was put forward by Peru, I said- as there was  no debate atall at that stage - that the motion would  not stand; but if the motion for closure of the de-  bate is moved now, it will be permissible. That  is what the delegate of the Philippines actually did.  May I take it, Madam, that you moved the motion  for the closure of the debate? Yes? .... The mo-  tion is seconded by Liberia.
(31) Duringthe discussion of any question, a mem-  ber may move the closure of the debate. If app-  lication is made for permission to speak against  the closure, it may be accorded to not more than  two speakers. In other words, only those who are  against closure may speak, and only two of them.  Are there any delegates wishing to speak against  closure? Brazil has already spoken against. Any  others? The motion before the house is the clo-  sure of the debate, and coming to the vote. Those  in favour of closing the debate? Do you want me to  call the roll on this? Yes?
(32) The vote was taken by roll-call.  Voted in favour: Afghanistan, Australia, Austria,  Burma (Union of), Canada, Ceylon, Colombia,  Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt,  El Salvador, German Federal Republic, Haiti,  Honduras, Indonesia, Iraq, Italy, Japan, Jordan,  Laos, Liberia, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Pakistan,  Peru, Philippines, Syria, Thailand, Turkey, Union  of South Africa, United Kingdom, Uruguay, Vene-  zuela, Viet-Nam.  Voted against: Brazil, France, Greece, Iran,  Lebanon, Netherlands, Panama, Switzerland, Uni-  ted States of America, Yugoslavia.  Abstained: Belgium, Cambodia, Denmark, India,  Israel, Luxembourg, Mexico, Monaco, Norway,  Sweden.  Absent: Cuba, Korea, Saudi-Arabia.
(33) The PRESIDENT - The motion for closure of  the debate is adopted by 35 votés to 10, with 10  abstentions and 3 absent. Therefore the debate is  closed.
(34) We shall now proceed to a roll-call vote on  the main issue ofthe admission of Spain to Unesco.
(35) The vote was taken by roll-call.  Voted infavour: Afghanistan, Australia, Austria,  Belgium, Brazil, Cambodia, Canada, Ceylon,  Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecua-  dor, Egypt, El Salvador, France, German Federal  Republic, Greece, Haiti, Honduras, Indonesia,  Iran, Iraq, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Laos, Lebanon,  PLENARY MEETINGS  Liberia, Monaco, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Pak-  istan, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Switzerland,  Syria, Thailand, Turkey, Union of South Africa,  United Kingdom, United States of America, Vene-  zuela, Viet-Nam.  Voted against:  guay, Yugoslavia.  Abstained: Denmark, India, Israel,  bourg, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden.  Absent: Cuba, Korea, Saudi-Arabia.  Burma (Union of), Mexico, Uru-  Luxem-
(36) The PRESIDENT - The motion is carried:  for: 44; against: 4; abstentions: 7; absent: 3,
(37) So the decision is:  "Whereas the Government of Spain submitted,  on 13 November 1951, an application for member-  ship of the United Nations Educational, Scientific  and Cultural Organization,  The General Conference  Decides to admit Spain to membership of the  United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cul-  tural Organization. "
(38) We proceed to the next item, the admission  of Libya. Sir Ronald Adam, on behalf of the Exe-  cutive Board, will move the motion.
(39) Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom), Vice-  Chairman of the Executive Board - "The Execu-  tive Board,  Considering  That the Government of the United Kingdom of  Libya applied for membership of Unesco on 24 Dec-  ember 1951, and in accordance with Article II of  the Agreement between Unesco and the United Na-  tions, the Director-General forwarded the applica-  tion to the Economic and Social Council of the Uni-  ted Nations,  That the Economic and Social Council, at its  Fourteenth Session, decided to inform Unesco that  it had no objection to the admission of the United  Kingdom of Libya to membership of the Organiza-  tion,  Decides, in accordance with paragraph 2 of Art-  icle II of Unesco's Constitution, to recommend to  the General Conference at its Seventh Session that  the United Kingdom of Libya be admitted to mem-  bership of Unesco, "
(40) The PRESIDENT - The motion put before the  house by Sir Ronald Adam, on behalf of the Execu-  tive Board, is that the State of Libya be admitted  to membership of the United Nations Educational,  Scientific and Cultural Organization. Following the  same procedure, if there are no observations to be  made by members, we shall take a roll-call vote.  Any observations? .... None.
(41) Mr. MONTAGNIER (Secretary of the General  Conference) - (Translation from the French) The  General Conference,  Whereas the Government of the United Kingdom  of Libya submitted, on 24 December 1951, an app-  - 156 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  lication for membership of the United Nations Edu-  cational, Scientific and Cultural Organization;  Whereas, in accordance with the provisions of  the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference,  the United Kingdom of Libya has expressed its  willingness to abide by the Constitution;  Whereas, in accordance with Article II of the  Agreement between the United Nations and the Uni-  ted Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural  Organization, this application has been submitted  to the Economic and Social Council of the United  Nations;  Whereas the Economic and Social Council, at its  Fourteenth Session, decided to inform the United  Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organ-  ization that it had no objection to the admission of  the United Kingdom of Libya to the Organization;  And whereas, in virtue of this decision, the Exe-  cutive Board, at its Thirtieth Session, decided to  recommend to the General Conference that the Uni-  ted Kingdom of Libya be admitted as a Member of  the Organization;  Decides to admit the United Kingdom of Libya  to membership of the United Nations Educational,  Scientific and Cultural Organization.
(42) The PRESIDENT - Does anyone wish to speak  on this resolution? If not, I shall adopt the same  procedure and ask for a roll-call vote.
(43) The vote was taken by roll-call.  Voted infavour: Afghanistan, Australia, Austria,  Belgium, Brazil, Burma (Union of), Cambodia,  Canada, Ceylon, Colombia, Costa Rica, Denmark,  Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador,  France, German Federal Republic, Greece, Haiti,  Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel,  Italy, Japan, Jordan, Laos, Lebanon, Liberia,  Luxembourg, Mexico, Monaco, Netherlands, New  Zealand, Norway, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Phil-  ippines, Sweden, Switzerland, Syria, Thailand,  Turkey, Union of South Africa, United Kingdom,  United States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela,  Viet-Nam, Yugoslavia.  Voted against: None.  Abstained: None.  Absent: Cuba, Korea, Nicaragua, Saudi-Arabia.
(44) The PRESIDENT - The motion is adopted by
54 votes. There are none against, no abstentions  and there are 4 absent.
(45) "Whereas the Government of Libya submitted,  on 24 December 1951, an application for member-  ship of the United Nations Educational, Scientific  and Cultural Organization, the General Conference  Decides to admit the United Kingdom of Libya to  membership of the United Nations Educational,  Scientific and Cultural Organization."  I call upon the delegate of Libya.
(46) Mr. Sayed Mohammed SAQISLI (United King-  dom of Libya) - (Translation) Mr. President, lad-  I-12  ies and gentlemen, it is with pride and great pleas-  ure that the United Kingdom of Libya hears of the  General Conference's decision at this session to  admit her to membership of the United Nations  Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization.  I thank you for the honour thus conferred upon my  country and express its especial gratitude to those  delegations who supported our application for ad-  mission.
(47) As you are aware, less than one year has  passed since Libya obtained her independence under  King Idriss el Senussi after a long and bitter strug-  gle on the part of both the King and the country.  Fortunately, at the time when the final stages of  the struggle were reached, the United Nations had  already been created and was in a position to give  to Libya its approval, guidance and help at the  most crucial moment of her history. Having ach-  ieved independence and sovereignty, Libya is now  making rapid progress with her reconstruction.  She is determined to play an active part in the  great family of nations and to tighten the cultural  bonds between herself and other countries. There  is no doubt that her progress in this task will be  aided and accelerated by her admission to Unesco.
(48) Through decades of foreign rule, the Libyan  people has been denied an adequate share of sci-  entific knowledge, professional training and tech-  nical expertise. During the second world war our  country was, as you know, the theatre of ferocious  battles and devastating campaigns which ruthlessly  destroyed the amenities and material resources so  chronically needed by Libya in raising herself up  from her fall. But these factors neither deflect  nor weaken our indomitable determination to sec-  ure for all Libyans economic security, education,  enlightenment and personal freedom. In order to  guarantee their implementation these aims have  been embodied in the Constitution of the New State.  In planning its programmes the Government keeps  them constantly in mind and has already made tan-  gible progress in ensuring their fulfilment.
(49) On this occasion Libya desires to place on  record her gratitude to Unesco for the help and  guidance it has given during the past two years -  before Libya was admitted to this Organization.  Unesco's assistance enabled us to move forward in  the great and constructive task of our educational  and cultural resurgence.
(50) Members of different agencies belonging either  to the United Nations or to countries friendly to  Libya have co-operated with us in compiling vari-  ous plans for the fuller development of our economic  resources by modern methods, providing teachers,  experts and instructors and sending Libyan stu-  dents to study abroad. Schemes for the improve-  ment of public health have been inaugurated. Pro-  gress is thus being made in many fields.
(51) The Libyan Government is convinced beyond  dispute that in education lies the key to allits prob-  lems. Education will be the greatest single factor  that can contribute to the elimination of the ob-  = 157 -
11-12  stacles that stand in the way of our reconstruction.  Development of economic resources, the safeguar-  ding of public health, the enrichment of community  life and the guaranteeing of individual freedom from  want, ignorance and fear, all rest squarely on the  need for more and better schools. It is in laying  down this essential foundation for our new State  that the Unesco mission is playing an important  part. It has guided and assisted us in new schemes  for technical instruction, the training of teachers,  kindergartens and the production of textbooks. In  short, it has helped us with the scaffolding of the  new educational construction which we are setting  up.
(52) Mr. President, the United Kingdom of Libya  has had practical proof of the inestimable value of  international co-operation among the peace-loving  nations and believes in developing to the full her  cultural relations with other countries. She will  do all within her power to make a useful contribu-  tion to the activities of this great assembly, mem-  bership in which you have now paid her the honour  of granting.
(53) The admission of the United Kingdom of Libya  to this noble Organization encourages us to hope  that the barriers will be removed which hold us  back from membership of the United Nations itself  and that we shall soon become an active member of  that organization too, contributing for our part to  the maintenance of world peace and security.
(54) It is in a spirit of goodwill that my country is  drawn towards Unesco, and I conclude my remarks  with the hope that time will perpetuate this Organ-  ization, created to cast light upon the dark paths  of man and to save him from the grip of the evils  which beset him. May a spirit of sincere and  brotherly co-operation prevail at its present de-  liberations so that they may be crowned with suc-  cess and produce the good results expected of them  to the benefit of the nations here assembled beneath  the banner of Unesco.
(55) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Libya and call upon the delegate of Spain.
(56) Mr. José Sebastian de ERICE y O'SHEA  (Spain) - (Translation from the Spanish) Mr. Presi-  dént, Mr. Director-General, ladies and gentlemen,  with your permission, in view of your acceptance  of my country, fellow delegates, fellow members  of the free and sovereign countries of the world  represented in Unesco: seldom in the whole course  of my career and activities - with which many of  you will be familiar, from attendance at other simi-  lar international conferences - have I experienced  greater emotion than today, emotion so strong as  almost to prevent me from addressing you. I shall  confine myself, therefore, to a few brief words.
(67) In the name of Spain I express to all of you the  most heartfelt thanks. Thanks to all who decided  that Spain should participate in the work of the Uni-  ted Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural  PLENARY MEETINGS  Organization. And, together with these deep and.  sincere thanks, and my own fraternal greetings to  all with whom I shall in times to come have the  signal honour of working, I bring you the assurance  of Spain's most earnest, loyal and firm desire and  intention to collaborate to her utmost for the full  attainment of the aims set before Unesco in its  Constitution and in its several Regulations and  Agreements.
(58) You are all familiar with the traditions of  Spain, established’by a long line of Spanish experts  in international law - Francisco de Vitoria, Suarez,  Vasquez de Menchaca, Baltasar de Ayala and so  many others whose names remain in your memory -  and you well know that Spain will always bring to  international assemblies an open mind and even  more open arms, approaching every problem in a  spirit of the most frank, loyal and comradely co-  operation.
(59) Itisin this spirit that Spain is entering Unesco;  and it was in recognition of this spirit, I hope, that  you voted for her admission, for which we desire  once again to express our gratitude.
(60) The PRESIDENT - Ithank the delegate of  Spain. The Chairman of the Executive Board will  now move the resolution concerning the admission  of Nepal.
(61) Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil), Chairman of the  Executive Board - (Translation from the French)  "The Executive Board,  Considering"  That the Government of the State of Nepal app-  lied for membership of Unesco on 22 February
1952,  That, in accordance with Article II of the Agree-  ment between Unesco and the United Nations, the  Director-General forwarded the application to the  Economic and Social Council of the United Nations,  That the Economic and Social Council, at its  Fourteenth Session, decided to inform Unesco that  it has no objection to the admission of the State of  Nepal to membership of the Organization,  Decides, in accordance with paragraph 2 of Ar-  ticle II of Unesco's Constitution, to recommend to  the General Conference at its Seventh Session that  the State of Nepal be admitted to membership of  Unesco."
(62) The PRESIDENT - I shall ask the Secretary  to read the draft resolution.
(63) Mr. MONTAGNIER (Secretary of the General  Conference) - (Translation from the French) The  General Conference,  Whereas the Government of the State of Nepal  submitted, on 22 February 1952, an application for  membership of ‘the United Nations Educational,  Scientific and Cultural Organization;  Whereas, in accordance with the provisions of  the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference,  -158 ~   PLENARY  the State of Nepal has expressed its willingness to  abide by the Constitution;  Whereas, in accordance with Article II of the  Agreement between the United Nations and the Uni-  ted Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural  Organization, this application has been submitted  to the Economic and Social Council of the United  Nations;  Whereas the Economic and Social Council, at its  Fourteenth Session, decided to inform the United  Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organ-  ization that it had no objection to the admission of  the State of Nepal to the Organization;  And whereas, in virtue of this decision, the Exe-  cutive Board, at its Thirtieth Session, decided to  recommendto the General Conference that the State  of Nepalbe admitted as a Member of the Organiza-  tion,  Decides to.admit the State of Nepal to member-  ship of the United Nations Educational, Scientific  and Cultural Organization.  Sir Ben Bowen Thomas  the Chair.  (United Kingdom) took
(64) The PRESIDENT - Are there any observa-  tions? If not, we will proceed to the roll-call  vote.  MEETINGS II-13
(65) The vote was taken by roll-call.  Voted infavour: Afghanistan, Australia, Austria,  Belgium, Brazil, Burma (Union of), Cambodia,  Canada, Ceylon, Colombia, Costa Rica, Denmark,  Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador,  France, German Federal Republic, Greece, Haiti,  Hondurus, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel,  Italy, Japan, Jordan, Korea, Laos, Lebanon, Lib-  eria, Luxembourg, Mexico, Monaco, Netherlands,  New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, Pakistan, Pan-  ama, Peru, Philippines, Sweden, Switzerland,  Syria, Thailand, Turkey, Union of South Africa,  United Kingdom, United States of America, Uru-  guay, Venezuela, Viet-Nam,  Voted against: None.  Abstained: None.  Absent: Cuba, Saudi-Arabia, Yugoslavia.
(66)  is:  The PRESIDENT - The result of the roll-call  for: 55; against: 0; abstentions: 0; absent: 3.  Nepal is therefore elected a Member of this  Organization.  I understand that there is no representative of  Nepal present, so I cannot have the pleasure of  calling upon anyone to give us greetings.  The meeting rose at 4.45 p.m.  THIRTEENTH PLENARY MEETING  Thursday, 20 November 1952, at 4 p.m.  President: Dr. SARVEPALLI RADHAKRISHNAN (India)  later: Mr. PAUL MONTEL (France)  CONTENTS  Decision on the place of the Eighth Session of the  General Conference . . .  Report of the Legal Committee and of the Administra-
159  tive Commission on the question of China's right to  vote  DECISION ON THE PLACE OF THE EIGHTH SESSION  OF THE GENERAL CONFERENCE
(1) The PRESIDENT - The meeting is called to  order. I shall now request the Chairman of the
168  Executive Board to move the resolution regarding  the place of the Eighth Session of the General Con-  ference.  Chairman of the (2) Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil),  - 159 -