PLENARY MEETINGS  the second year of work. We have no doubt that for  our distinguished experts, properly advised and  working with the Ministry and the Higher Council  of Education, it will be a year of fruitful labour, in  which all of them will be able, by the end of the  task, not onlyto consolidate what they have already  won - the sympathy and affection ofthe nation - but  also to enjoy the visible results of their efforts.
(63) In conclusion, Mr. President and colleagues,  I again offer you the greetings of Costa Rica, that  little country unknown to many here in which, as  the saying goes, "there are more teachers than  soldiers'. It really is a country without an army  and with the necessary minimum of police. Its
800, 000 peasants are passionately devoted to their  land but eager for education because they know that,  by usirg education to improve their minds and in-  crease the level of culture, health, clothing, hous-  ing and the land itself will be improved and such  natural resources as we possess will be exploited  to best advantage - a self-centred attitude, perhaps,  but dictated bythe urge to remain a country where,  instead of inflation, the quantity of the currency is  being reduced and its value raised, where the silos  are full of produce for export; and which, as a  coffee-growing land, growing ''the best coffee in  America", as my countrymen claim, is favoured  by the high prices now prevailing. Yet our people  do not live by exports alone but by something higher  as well - by education, that vast urge to know one-  self and serve others generously, that our country
11-9  may continue to be the refuge of all the political  exiles of the world, a home for humanity dear to  the hearts of all the world.
(64) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Costa Rica. That completes the list of speakers  for this afternoon.
(65) Beforewe separate I wishto remind this aud-  ience of the fact that the Constitution of Unescowas  signed seven years ago in London, on 16 November
1945. We have completed seven years. Though we  may not be elated with the success of our work,  there is no need for discouragement. Our work is  undoubtedly of a fundamental character.
(66) Yesterday, the leader of the German delega-  tion said that Kant, in his work on Perpetual Peace  made the statement: "Peace is not the natural con-  dition of man, it has to be won". Rousseau said:  "Man is born free, but everywhere he is in chains".  We need not now discuss the implications of these  two statements. Whatever may be, we can win the  peace only if we remove the chains which shackle  mankind - the material chains of poverty and ig-  norance and the spiritual chains of selfishness,  individual and collective. Let us remind ourselves  today of a great principle: we are one family, and  in any case of conflict between human interests and  national, provincial or group interests, we must  pledge ourselves to prefer the human.  The meeting rose at 4.50 p. m.  NINTH PLENARY MEETING  Monday, 17 November 1952, at 10.45 a.m.  President: Dr. SARVEPALLI RADHAKRISHNAN (India)  CONTENTS  Adoption of the Report of the Procedure Committee . . 119  Discussion of the Director-General's Report (continu-  ation): Speeches by the delegates of Korea, Liberia,  United States of America, Laos, Austria, Thailand,  and Syria  ADOPTION OF THE REPORT OF THE PROCEDURE  COMMITTEE.
(1) The PRESIDENT - The Chairman of the Proce-  dure Committée will now submit his report.  (Translation (2) Mr. T. HAGUIWARA (Japan) -
120  from the French) Mr. President, ladies and gentle-  men, the Procedure Committee met on 14 November  to consider the amendments proposed by the Execu-  tive Board to Rules 31, 32 and 33 of the Rules of  Procedure. The Committee adopted the proposal of  the Board in its main outline, viz. that the Proce-  dure Committee should be converted into a Legal  ="119/-   II-9 PLENARY MEETINGS  Committee with a smaller number of members.  The draft recommendation of the Executive Board  has already been submitted to you, and the Com-  mittee's report is now presented to the General Con-  ference in document 7C/PRO/1. This document  contains two resolutions for adoption by the General  Conference, the first providing for amendment of  the Rules of Procedure, and the second for the  appointment of the Legal Committee for the present  session, Several questions have been raised in the  Procedure Committee's report but, as this docu-  ment is already in the possession of delegates, I  feel that it is unnecessary for me to discuss them  in detail here.
(3) The PRESIDENT - Are there any observations?  The report is "adopted".  DISCUSSION OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL’S REPORT  (continuation)
(4) The PRESIDENT - We now resume the discus-  sion on the Director-General's Report and on the  proposed budget. The first speaker today is the  delegate of Korea, Mr. George Paik.
(5) Mr. George PAIK (Korea) - Mr. President,  ladies and gentlemen, the Korean delegation, on  behalf of the Government and people of Korea, wish-  es at the outset to express its profound gratitude to  the wise Executive Board, the eminent Director-  General, the efficient Secretariat, and the esteemed  delegates of all the Member States for the most  touching expressions of goodwill and sympathy for  Korea whenuver Korea has been considered at the  previous meetings of this august assembly. We are  grateful, too, for the many tokens of goodwill that  have been translated into assistance for our educa-  tional rehabilitation. After the war of aggression  broke out in Korea, Unesco was the first United Na-  tions Specialized Agency to collaborate with the  United Nations in extending aid to the civilian popu-  lation in the fields of education, science, and cul-  ture. The Executive Board, in its deliberations in
1950, saw fit to allocate a sum of $100,000 for this  aid. Our Government and people appreciated the  step Unesco took and the kindly thought and good-  will behind this generous act.
(6) The Korean delegation wishes also to present  a brief account of Unesco's relief programme for  Korea. In the autumn of 1951 Unesco appointed an  educational consultant, Mr. Thomas E. Benner of  the United States of America. Mr. Benner made a  careful study of the existing conditions in the fields  of education, science, and culture in Korea, and in  the form of a report to Unesco told the world of the  great needs or the Korean people. A press for the  printing of textbooks, which is to be bought with  … Unesco's donation of $100,000, will soon be in-  stalled. Our Government, in co-operation with the  United Nations Korean Relief Agency, is ready to  provide the necessary buildings and operational ex-  penses for the plant. Unesco has also sent a plan-  ning mission under the leadership of Mr. Donald  Cottrell of the United States of America. These  able experts are now carrying out vigorously the  missions assigned to them. Under the system of  Unesco fellowships and the Technical Assistance  programme our scholars are benefiting from re-  fresher courses in educational institutions abroad.  For all this my Government offers most sincere  thanks.
(7) Korea has become a symbol today. The world  may differ in its interpretation of that symbol. No  matter what views others may hold, to us - the  Korean people - Korea stands for an outpost of de-  mocracy, a battlefield in the contest of principles,  and a sacrifice onthe altar of peace through collec-  tive security. The frontiers of democracy have  many outposts, but none of them is as vital for  world peace as that in Korea. The Korean people,  in co-operation with many Member States of the  United Nations, are defending that Eastern fron-  tier so that the world may have peace through the  realization of the noble ideals of this Organization.
(8) In her long history Korea has never been an  aggressor or a warrior nation. On the contrary,  she has been a preserver and transmitter of civi-  lization as it flowed from the Asiatic Continent.  Both Buddhist and Confucian cultures were spread  in Eastern Asia through the Korean people and en-  riched by them. When modern Occidental civiliza-  tion was brought to the East, Korea was one of the  last recipients of thatculture. However, the ideals  of democracy, inherent in all freedom-loving peo-  ples, have been deeply rooted in the minds and  hearts of the Korean people. Democracy has come  to Korea to stay and grow. Today Korea is being  tested by fire as it attempts to perform again the  mission that her ancestors performed for those  other, ancient cultures. She has committed her-  self, at veryheavy cost, to the cause of democracy.  Many brave men, the guardians of freedom and  peace from all parts of the world, have made and  are making the supreme sacrifice on the battle-  fields of Korea, in order that the ideals of democ-  racy may have free course in the world. The Uni-  ted Nations, Unesco, FAO, WHO, and UNICEF,  have been made close to the people. UNCURK (the  United Nations Commission for the Unification and  Rehabilitation of Korea), UNCACK (the United  Nations Civil Assistance Command in Korea), and  UNKRA (the United Nations Korean Relief Agency),  have become household words for the Korean people.  I am convinced that our just and honourable cause  will be victorious, that Korea will stand out as the  Thermopylae of democracy in the Far East, and  that she will make a contribution towards the real-  ization of a higher regard for human personality  and a deepened respect for human rights.
(9) Not only am I grateful to the Member States of  Unesco, but I am also inspired by the great person-  alities assembled here and by the noble utterances  - 120 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  made in our deliberations. I feel that pillars of  civilization and guides of human destiny are ass-  embled in this hall. Coming asI do out of the agon-  ies of war, I find solace in your presence. The  distinguished President of this General Conference,  on the basis of observations made duringhis recent  tours of European countries, was reported in the  London press as saying: "The general world situ-  ation is much less unhappy now than it was a year  ago. There is an atmosphere of hopefulness about  the easing of the bitter tension between the great  powers''. I could not believe that statement until  I had seen the manifestation of such a spirithere in  this noble assembly. Unesco is the moral and cul-  tural expression of the United Nations, and you,  ladies and gentlemen, are the apostles of truth and  peace. I cannot help cherishing the hope that the  enlightenment that goes forth from this hall may in-  spire all the peace-loving peoples of the world.  Allow me to assure you that the Korean people and  my Government will do their part in spreading the  truths of the spirit that Unesco promotes through  its manifold activities.
(10) Our Director-General has already devoted a  generous portion of his excellent report to Korea.  This report stands out as a guide post for Unesco's  action,in, and concern for, a world situation con-  centrated in Korea. Appreciative as my Govern-  ment and people are of the warm and genuine good-  will of Unesco for Korea and of its desire to co-  operate with other United Nations Specialized  Agencies in the reconstruction of our war-devas-  tated country, we cannot help observing that con-  crete plans for such a programme are yet to be  made. The situation in Korea calls for a rehab-  ilitation programme and for an early execution of  that programme in the fields of education, science  and culture. The physical rehabilitation of school  buildings, cultural institutions, school equipment,  scientific apparatus and teaching materials requires  a programme extending over a period of years. Our  Government also requests Unesco's co-operation in  its programme to reform the content of education.  The severe shortage of trained teachers constitutes  one of our most urgent problems. Our Government  lays special emphasis on fundamental and adult edu-  cation, but wishes to share the wisdom and exper-  ience of other Member States. Our Minister of  Education advocates the protection and encourage-  ment of our creative artists and cultural groups;  but they lack the conditions necessary for creative  work. Technical assistance for our under-developed  and war-devastated country is in great demand, but  here too we must request a more active co-operation  on the part of the generous and affluent Member  States.
(11) The annual report that the United Nations  Commission for the Unification and Rehabilitation  of Korea presented to the General Assembly now  sitting records a marked progress in educational  work in Korea and praises its achievements. The  United Nations Korean Relief Agency, under the
11-9  eminent leadership of Mr. Donald Kingsly, has  taken the initial steps in its reconstruction pro-  gramme. Furthermore, the Korean Government  and people are exerting all their efforts to maintain  an educational programme at all levels, and to carry  out scientific and cultural activities in spite of im-  mense difficulties. For lack of classrooms, schools  often hold their classes out of doors. Nevertheless,  the need and desire for education continue.
(12) I apologize for taking up your valuable time  with such a prosaic subject as our need for rehab-  ilitation. I have done so because it is vital to our  life and work in Korea. We find that reconstruction  and war must go hand in hand. Morale during a  war, even a defensive war against aggression, can-  not be maintained without the hope of réconstruc-  tion. This is especiallytrue in a country like Korea,  where the people have a rich cultural heritage and  high spiritual aspirations. Our prudent planners  adhere to the principle that reconstruction must  follow peace, and caution us to wait. But do we not  believe that activities in the fields of education,  science and culture - that is, spiritual force - must  lead the temporal powers towards peace? Great  have been the achievements of Unesco in the past  seven years, but greater still was the vision of the  men and women who conceived the idea and ideals  of this world Organization. The guiding star of the  ideals of Unesco shines brightly now out of the  clouds of war and rumours of war. Apostles of  peace and freedom cannot fail to follow its light,  no matter how difficult the journey may be, for it  is the light of justice, freedom, and peace.
(13) The PRESIDENT - 1 thank the delegate of  Korea and call upon the delegate of Liberia.
(14) Mr. Nathaniel V. MASSAQUOI (Liberia) - Mr.  President, Mr. Director-General, Chairman of the  Executive Board, fellow delegates, in the name of  my delegation I wish, first of all, to associate my-  self with the warm tribute which every delegation  has paid to the Director-General for the dynamic  guidance he has given the Organization and the spi-  rit of leadership he has shown during the year under  review. I wish also to praise, and express our  appreciation to, the members of the Executive  Board, the Secretariat and all those who have lab-  oured during the past year in this bastion of liberty,  justice and peace. I should like to thankthe Govern-  ment and people of France for the hospitality they  have shown to the Organization andthe delegations.  May their great spirit endure for ever.
(15) Ishouldalso like torecall the passing of Count  Stefano Jacini, statesman, writer, teacher and  pioneer of Unesco, and Dr. Maria Montessori, that  great discoverer of the child, who spent her entire  life in the cause of freedom and justice: two great  minds, citizens of a great nation - Italy - for cen-  turies the fount of Western civilization and culture.  May the causes for which they laboured never be  defeated.  - 121 -   I-9 PLENARY MEETINGS
(16) It willnot be possiblefor me to proceed with-  out first surveying the origin and growth of the  Organization. At the end of the First World War  the late President Wilson of the United States of  America submitted his famous "Fourteen Points",  which provided what was felt at the time to be the  panacea for all the sufferings of mankind. This  document, agreed to by all the powers victorious  in the war, formed the basis of the even more fam-  ous Covenant of the League of Nations. This  League, however, which lasted for about twenty  years, seems to have been dominated principally  by the great powers whose antagonistic ambitions  and interests already spelled disaster; and so this  great organization, which had emerged from the  ruins of a world washed by the blood and sweat and  tears of countless men, women and children, be-  came the victim of avarice, might and injustice.  Thus ended the hopes of millions who had suffered  for four years, fighting for what they felt would be  a better world.
(17) At the end of the Second World War, in the  city of San Francisco, the victorious nations met  once more and established the United Nations.  Immediately afterwards, and as if to make the res-  olutions so solemnly pledged in San Francisco a  reality, a preparatory conference for the establish-  ment of a United Nations Educational, Scientific and  Cultural Organization was convened. It was "not  set at the elevated level of advanced scholarship or  science, but at the level of the popular education  of the peoples of the world, of their communication  with each other" through the press, the film, radio,  television and the exchange of teachers, students  and workers of all classes and grades. It was to  be a collaboration to meet world needs.
(18) Very much has been said and written about the  Organization, but most interesting of all was the  statement made at the opening of the first plenary  meeting of the Conference for the establishment of  a United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cul-  tural Organization, held in London in November
1945, by Mr. Clement Attlee, at that time Prime  Minister of the United Kingdom. Mr. Attlee, in  his address of welcome, said: "Do not wars after  all begin in the minds of men?" After the session  Mr. Archibald McLeish, leader of the United States  delegation, asked the leader. of the United Kingdom  delegation, Miss Ellen Wilkinson, then British Min-  ister of Education, what she thought Mr. Attlee's  reaction would be if the phrase were incorporated  in the preamble to the Constitution. She said she  thought the Prime Minister would be pleased.  Accordingly, when Mr. McLeish was appointed  Chairman of the sub-committee set up to draft the  preamble and the first Article of the Constitution,  he wrote the famous sentence: ‘Since wars begin  in the minds of men, it is in the minds of men that  the defences of peace must be constructed". This  was accepted unchanged by the Conference.
(19) As itbegan todevelop its programme, the new  Organization received its first shock in the realiza-  tion that, in this machine age with all its parapher-  nalia of trusts, cartels, benevolent schemes and so  on, inthis age of aviation, radio, television and nuc-  lear physics, more than half the population of the  world was illiterate. Our Director-General has  said: "There can be no United Nations as long as  this most unjust of frontiers goes on existing - this  frontier which divides the lettered from the un-  lettered, and which compels more than one thous-  and two hundred million men, women and children  to live in ignorance which invariably leads to pov-  erty and disease".
(20) These are some of the lasting memories which  I feel should influence us whenever we meet to dis-  cuss the programme of this great Organization.  Many criticisms have been levelled at the form,  content, coherence and utility of this programme; .  but considering the universal nature of Unesco's  mission we cannot help sympathizing with those who  are responsible for the initial planning of the docu-  ment we are now considering. This programme is  intended to serve as the means through which the  less tangible programme resolutions, which embody  the aims of the Organization, are to be implemented  and converted into something more tangible and con-  crete - disciplines and tools of a generation of men  and women twice forced to face the frustration of  all its hopes, its struggles and sacrifices for a  better world.
(21) Unesco's critics, within and without the Organ-  ization, are impatient to see immediate successful  results. Here again the critics fail to realize that  the true way to success is not to be greedy for res-  ults. Unesco's answer to these unfair critics may  be found in the following song of the poet: "'O cruel  man of urgent need, must you scorch with fire the  mind which is still a bud? You will burst it into  bits, destroy its perfume in your impatience. Do  you not see that my Lord, the Supreme Teacher,  takes ages to perfect the flower and never is in a  fury of haste? But because of your terrible greed  you only rely on force, and what hope is there for  you, O Man of urgent need. .... Know that only he  who follows the simple current and loses himself  can hear the voice, O Man of urgent need."
(22) Unesco, which was at first a mere intellec-  tual clearing house, had by 1950 become’ an Or-  ganization with a basic programme in education,  natural sciences, social sciences, cultural acti-  vities, mass communication, reconstruction and  so on. Many friends as well as critics of Unesco  felt that this was too ambitious a programme for  an Organization which had to rely on annual con-  tributions from Member States who were them-  selves still recovering from the catastrophe and  repercussions of the greatest global conflict in the  history of man. Let us hope that our critics are  now being gradually convinced that Unesco is cap-  able of permeating the realm of idealism by aban-  doning its earlier aims of establishing and promot-  ing disciplines "per se', in preference to a con-  sideration of objectives closely connected with con-  - 122 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  crete problems in the realm of these disciplines.
(23) The delegation of Liberia feels ‘that there  should be a balance in ‘activities in the techno-  logically more highly developed and the under-  developed countries of the world. By this I mean  that in Unesco's programme provision should be  made for those activities which will promote and  strengthen more active collaboration between these  two groups of countries. The programme must  serve as a direct means of "constructing the def-  ences of peace in the minds of men'. It should not  only be conceived as a synthesis: in the planning  and execution of the programme there should be  such co-ordination as will lead to the avoidance of  watertight projects and regions. For example, if  the best use is to be made of the funds provided for  the implementation of a particular programme acti-  vity, there should exist some medium through which  the methods employed, results achieved and exper-  iences gained could be almost immediately applied  in other regions of the world.
(24) The 94 international non-governmental organ-  izations which have consultative status with Unesco  could play a very active role in the realization of  such a policy. Many of them have affiliates in dif-  ferent countries of the world. They should become  indeed the torch bearers of truth in the execution of  Unesco's programme. A very good start in this  direction has already been made in the recruitment  of experts for work in the Secretariat and in the  field and the granting of contracts to non-govern-  mental organizations; but to what extent these ex-  perts and organizations are devoted to the aims and  objectives of Unescois a matter the future will dec-  ide. To what extent are these organizations inter-  national and non-discriminatory in character? To  what extent are they trying to rid the world of ig-  norance, disease, poverty and frustration?
(25) The delegation of Liberiais in full agreement  with the establishment of regional offices and sci-  ence co-operation offices, but feels that here again  arises the problem of too many isolated activities  which could lead to overlapping and consequent waste  of time and money without proper co-ordination and  integration of the programme on intra-regional as  well as inter-regional levels. Let us economize  not only in terms of money but also in terms of  time and place.
(26) In such a system of decentralization the Na-  tional Commissions should play a more effective  part by serving as links between Member States,  independent specialists, the Organization and the  people. There should be closer co-operation among  the programme planners of Unesco, the non-govern-  mental organizations having consultative status, and  the National Commissions. The National Commis-  sions, some of which meet in their regions, convene  annually in Paris. The non-governmental organiza-  tions also meet in Paris. But is there any co-ordina-  tion of the results? In what way does the Director-  General or the Executive Board benefit from their  experiences in the planning of the programme ?  tional training and guidance,  II-9
(27) The Member States should help in this task  not only by demanding greater and more direct ad-  ministrative participation, but by giving material  and moral support to enable the National Commis-  sions to co-operate more efficiently with the Sec-  retariat and regional centres. This should even-  tually lead to greater efficiency and economy in the  overall execution of the programme. If we do not  want to fail as an Organization for Education, Sci-  ence and Culture, we shouldnot only demand great-  er control of the programme and budget-making  organism, but we should also stimulate greater  efficiency through co-ordination of the various  activities.
(28) I cannot vacate this forum without expressing  to the Director-General the appreciation of the  Government and people of Liberia for the technical  assistance rendered to my country. Unesco's aid  is contributing considerably towards the five-year  plan of the Government of Liberia, particularly in  the fields of fundamental education, fuller elemen-  tary education, secondary teacher training, voca-  and university and  science education, With the exception of the recent  fundamental education centre in Egypt, the joint  Unesco-Liberia education project is the greatest  example of co-operation between an inter-govern-  mental organization and one of its Member States  in the whole continent of Africa.
(29) There seems to be a feeling that Unesco is  dissipating its energies in undertaking too many  projects - seminars, meetings of experts, sym-  posia, action through press, film and radio, estab-  lishment of international science laboratories, edu-  cational missions of all kinds, protection of writers  and artists, conventions to international non-  governmental organizations - and that there will not  be enough money available to do an efficient job in  any one of these fields. I agree. But let us rem-  ember that Unesco is not called upon to do the job  alone or to take over all activities in the fields of  science, education and culture.
(30) If we examine the programme more closely,  we discover that most of the resolutions begin with  one of the following phrases: the Director-General  is authorized to assist, to promote, to stimulate  and facilitate, to contribute, to help, to spread, to  encourage, to undertake the study, to collaborate,  to collect something which is already in existence,  to secure co-operation, to make the necessaryarr-  angements with, to pursue with the assistance of,  to maintain in co-operation with Member States.  All these terms indicate the catalytic function of  Unesco's programme.
(31) I wish to thank ‘all the delegations here who  supported the candidacy of the delegation of Liberia  for one of the Vice-Presidencies of this Conference,  and I wish to assure you that we shall do all that lies  within our power to make the decisions reached by  this Conference a standard for all future sessions.
(32) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  - 123 -
15-9  Liberia and call upon the leader of the United States  delegation, Mr. Sargeant.
(33) Mr. Howland H, SARGEANT (United States of  America) - Mr. President, fellow delegates, for  several days now we have been listening to a very  interesting and highly stimulating debate. Without  exception, those who have participated in it have  expressed their appreciation of the Director-  General's report and of the speech with which he  introduced it. I should like to associate myself  with all those who have spoken before me, because  we owe the Director-General a deep debt of grati-  tude for an excellent report and for an outstanding  introductory statement which, we hope, will set a  high level for our future deliberations.
(34) The Director-General spoke of the progress  made by Unesco, That progress is real, that pro-  gress is marked; and we rejoice with the Director-  General over it because Unesco is a vital and aliv-  ing organism. It must remain so. It must grow in  influence and in power. There is nothing static  about Unesco and, if I may say so, nothing un-  changeable except our determination to make Unesco  succeed, to make it an ever more effective instru-  ment in our common quest for mutual understand-  ing, for the improvement of the living conditions  of our peoples, and for the establishment of a world  order within which we shall all be able to enjoy a  secure peace.
(35) Unfortunatelythe world in which we live today  is not a peaceful world. Some progress has been  made during the past two years towards checking  wanton aggression, but our peace is far from  secure. Political tensions have increased rather  than decreased and divisive forces which threaten;  peace and progress are at work within a large num-  ber of countries and in their relations to each other.
(36) The recent report ‘of the United Nations on  world social conditions shows how far we are from  having attained standards that even approximate to  the basic needs of millions of peoples in many parts  of the world. This report reveals that much pro-  gress has been made in improving health and edu-  cation; but the rate of progress in the various coun-  tries has differed widely, with the result that the  differences between highly developed and less deve-  loped countries have increased rather than dim-  inished.
(37) The age of fatalistic acceptance of misery and  want is passed. Even in remote and less developed  parts of the world we witness a revolution of rising  expectations. Even in those parts the poor and the  hungry and the sick, illiterate as most of them are,  are realizing how futile and unnecessary are their  sufferings. They either clearly see or dimly per-  ceive that modern thought, modern technology and  better social organization can put an end to their  misery, that a better, fuller life is within their  grasp. And as they reach out for that life, there  frequently develops conflictbetween the old and the  new. Internal tensions and conflicts have a ten-  PLENARY MEETINGS  dency to carry over intothe international field, en-  dangering international stability and the peaceful  evolution of orderly international relations. This  is all the more true since the strains and stresses  of our age are accentuated and exploited by men of  ill will who are attempting to set man against man  and nation against nation in order to establish their  own ruthless rule.
(38) It is a tragic fact that the tensions thus cre-  ated and the distrust among individuals and nations  interfere with the realization of some of the main  objectives of Unesco. If we could attain these ob-  jectives, it would help to lessen existing tensions  and contribute to a fuller life. Cultural exchanges  are impeded, even new obstacles are raised to the  free flow of information, and mutual understanding  suffers - that mutual understanding without which  we cannot hope to achieve a peaceful world with  better living conditions for all people.
(39) This, then, is the world in which you andI  live today: a world divided against itself, in which  the forces of ‘darkness and of light are locked in a  heroic struggle. It is a world holding out to Unesco  a challenge which staggers the imagination, as the  delegate from Ecuador so eloquently told us when  he emphasized the moral and spiritual basis of law.  Let me define this challenge in terms of what Unesco  can do to answer the fervent prayer of men and  women everywhere that there may be peace and the  opportunity for a fuller life for all.
(40) First, Unesco can stimulate the creative en-  ergies of man. We are far from having reached an  adequate understanding of the basic forces and fac-  tors in human relations which mould our destinies.  I think it is one of the great tasks of Unesco to pro-  mote such understanding through the stimulation of  research and study. We need to secure the colla-  boration of the best minds of our generation to gain  a full comprehension of these forces and factors,  whether they be ideological, political, economic,  cultural, social or other. We must face squarely  not only those elements in the contemporary scene  which make for greater unity, but also those which  make for strife and conflict. We must assign here  a large place to the work of the social sciences.
(41) Concentrated attention must be given also to  the contributions which the natural sciences have to  make to the well-being of mankind. It is gratifying  that, in the programme before us, emphasis is  being placed on research for better living condi-  tions. Applied sciences and technology are urgently  needed in many areas of the world where food and  good health are still among the most acute primary  needs of millions of people. The United States  delegation believes that humanitarian principles  should determine where Unesco's major effort in  the field of scientific exploration should be con-  centrated. It believes that the natural and engi-  neering sciences have the obligation to serve society  as directly and effectively as possible.
(42) Basic science is important because future  programmes require that curiosity be encouraged  - 124 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  and that basic principles be formulated as a foun-  dation for future procedures in solving the prob-  lems of a continually changing world. These basic  and applied sciences are not mutually exclusive:  they are complementary. To attain the best balance  between them within the framework of Unesco's  activities will require continual vigilance and study.
(43) Related to this problem of how best to develop  the sciences as a tool of human progress is the  need to gain a better understanding of the impact  of technology and industrialization upon the lives,  habits and institutions of our peoples and their re-  lations to each other. We are encouraged to see  that Unesco is paying increasing attention to this  complex of problems, which was recognized last  summer by the Economic and Social Council as  deserving high priority consideration.
(44) Parenthetically, I should like to suggest that,  as we redouble our efforts to stimulate research  and study best designed to give us an understanding  of the most important contemporary problems and  the means of meeting them, we must take care to  avoid over-organization. My delegation is not op-  posed in principle to the creation of new organiza-  tions or institutes, but we feel that what might be  called the "institutional approach" has certain  dangers. Our limited efforts and resources might  be expended on the creation of new institutions  when greater and more immediate results might  be achieved through the stimulation and use of ex-  isting institutions and facilities. The creation of  new organizations, councils andinstitutions and new  buildings is not necessarily the best way to en-  courage free enquiry, to stimulate human invent-  iveness, and to make use of existing knowledge.
(45) This is true also in the encouragement of the  arts which enrich our lives and which we cherish  above all in our heritage. In the creative arts,  less than in any other field, can the human spirit  be regimented and organized. What we can, how-  ever, and must do is help to create the conditions -  the climate of opinion - which will enable the artist  and the thinker to give freely to the world of his  God-given genius. And we must assure easy,  workable ways for the exchange of ideas which will  benefit the individual artist, as they will benefit all  of us in a fuller sharing in the cultural riches of  our world. It seems to me that the creative artist  throughout history has often come closest to an-  swering the description given in these lines from  Maxwell Anderson's play "Valley Forge": "There  are some men who lift the level of the age they in-  habit, until all men stand on higher ground in that  lifetime".
(46) Ihave talkedabout what Unesco can do to stimu-  late the creative energies of man. I should like to  talk alittle about what Unesco can do to help man to  use better what man has created. If the stimulation  of the creative energies of man is one of the prim-  ary tasks of Unesco, the application of the fruits of  such creativeness is another. Here again we are  facing a number of basic and all-important tasks.  I[-9
(47) There is little hope for the future of the world  as long as more than half of its population remains  illiterate and as long as the opportunity to enjoy  and to participate in the cultural, scientific and  educational life of mankind is limited to élite  groups in many lands. Through the promotion of  fundamental education Unesco has sought to lay the  foundation for the progressive raising of standards  of human existence. Fundamental education will  help to create the will and the ability of people  themselves to cope with the problems they face in  the communities, villages, cities and nations in  which they live. This is one of the great challenges  to Unesco that the delegate of India described so  vividly in his remarks. Fundamental education is  much more, therefore, than a smattering of read-  ing, writing and arithmetic. Because its purpose  is broad it uses the wide variety of educational,  scientific and cultural resources of Unesco. It  calls for the closest collaboration with the other  Specialized Agencies of the United Nations. You  will remember that the delegate of Afghanistan  made special reference to this problem of co-  ordination in his address.
(48) While a great concentration of effort is re-  quired to provide tangible help in fundamental  education, there is room for still greater efforts  to bring the riches of education, science and cul-  ture to larger bodies of people. Through pro-  grammes of popularization of science, through the  development of museums as educational institu-  tions, and through other means, opportunities for  fuller participation in the cultural, scientific and  educational life of our civilization must continually  be encouraged.
(49) This, however, is not enough. As is well  known to everyone here, the Government and the  people of the United States of America attach par-  amount importance to what has been called in the  programme: "Education for living in a world com-  munity". This concept is so important and has  such broad implications for Unesco's objectives as  a whole that it deserves a special word of comment.
(50) In one sense, education for living in a world  community can mean a programme as wide as  Unesco itself. In this sense it means the promo-  tion of the teaching of those sciences which will  enable man to gain a better control of his environ-  ment, ensure economic and social progress and  promote higher standards of living. Doing this,  we make our contribution in the struggle against  misery, want, and premature death. In this broad  sense education for living in a world community  furthermore means extending the observance of  fundamental human rights which assert the dignity  of the individual and set him free. In this way we  shall give the best answer to discrimination of any  kind - the answer to bigotry, to ill-founded racial  pride and to the false prophets of authoritarianism  and dictatorial régimes.
(51) In my earlier address to this Conference, I  expressed the belief that "our mission at this Gen-  - 125 -   II-9  eral Conference must be to continue a relentless  search to find better ways to educate people to live  as citizens of sovereign States in a community of  all mankind, preserving the values of diverse cul-  tures and the rights and responsibilities of national  citizenships'. In our programme a beginning has  been made to identify a more precise objective to  which all disciplines can contribute and upon which  several work plans can be centred. In the section  devoted to education a few activities are focussed  directly upon this concept for living in a world  community. It is my hope that, as we undertake a  more detailed examination of the programme, we  shall make a particular effort to find in each chap-  ter ‘those work plans which contribute directly to  this vital concept.
(52) Such a more precise programme should aim,  in our judgment, to make people aware of those  elements in our society which make for co-operation  and unity and also of the divisive forces which dis-  turb international relations and jeopardize peace.  More needs to be done to spread an understanding  of the great aspirations for a world order which  within our generation have found expression in the  creation of the United Nations and its various Spe-  cialized Agencies as well as of other international  organizations with which we are trying to co-  operate in a common effort to improve our condi-  tions of life and to secure peace.
(53) The engagements we have entered into as  Member States of these international organizations  have force only in so far as they are actively and  effectively understood and supported by men,  women, and children throughout our lands. They  can be effective only in so far as the implications  of these engagements for individual and national  conduct are made clear. As we promote education  about the ideas and ideals of the United Nations  and the means at its disposal - ranging from tech-  nical assistance to collective security - we shall  help to create a sense of responsibility to inter-  national co-operation, without which the United  Nations cannot hope to succeed.
(54) This understanding of the heroic efforts for  peace and well-being made by the United Nations  and the organizations and agencies co-operating  with it has to be supplemented by education for a  better appreciation of differences in national atti-  tudes. A vital, creative world community can be  established only on the basis of a full recognition  of the diversity of our several national heritages.  Unity without such diversity means sterility.
(55) One thing I should like to stress that has al-  ready been said by implication: there are many  parts of Unesco's programme outside the educa-  tional chapter which could be identified as contrib-  uting towards education for living in a world  community. Once agreement has been reached in  the General Conference on those projects and  methods of work best calculated to advance this  concept during the next two years, I am confident  our Director-General will ensure thatall necessary  PLENARY MEETINGS  administrative steps are taken to relate each part  of this effort, in whatever chapter or organizational  unit it is found, to all the others. If this can be  done, I believe we may return to our homes as-  sured that Unesco will provide that vital spark  necessary to light the fires of co-operation in each  of our own countries.
(56) One last comment about this concept: I want  to point out emphatically that our efforts to develop  this world community in no way infringe upon the  relationship between a citizen and his own govern-  ment. On the contrary, in an interdependent world  the recognition of the need for international co-  operation is an essential safeguard for the fullest  possible development of the several States which  are the strength and the glory of any world com-  munity of democratic peoples living their own lives  in freedom and contributing voluntarily to the  greatness and well-being of all.
(57) I should like now to share our ideas on what  ways and means Unesco can employ - a third as-  pect of our work which deserves special mention.  To stimulate research and study and to disseminate  available knowledge for purposes of achieving a  fuller life free from fear and want, requires a  most judicious use of the means and methods at  our disposal. Our resources are limited and will  remain limited as long as we cannot prove to all  the effectiveness of our endeavours in terms of  improved living conditions. We have to scrutinize  continuously our work plans. We must have the  courage to lay aside methods and projects which  can be replaced by other methods and projects  more likely to ensure the greatest benefits to the  greatest number in the immediate future over a  longer period.
(58) Among the most effective means so far discov-  eredare the various methods of technicalassistance  through which the knowledge and technical achieve-  ments of the fully developed countries canbe shared  ‘with the peoples of the less developed countries  which are at present experiencing that revolution  of rising expectations of which I have spoken. The  importance of this programme to these countries  has been underlined by many delegations during  recent days. Through technical assistance, it has  become possible to telescope into a few years what  it has taken some of the fully developed countries  hundreds of years to achieve. My Government  stands ready to support our programmes of tech-  nical assistance, provided they serve the interests  of the many rather than the few.
(59) The record shows that we have not taken full  advantage of the opportunities offered by these  technical assistance programmes. This is not the  fault of our Secretariat which, by and large, has  done an outstanding job in developing these pro-  grammes where it was asked to do so. But the  various Member States have been slow in asking  for such assistance, particularly in such fields as  the fight against illiteracy and the extension of  fundamental education. The result is that Unesco  - 126 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  has not beenable to layclaim to all the funds which  might have been made available to it under the Ex-  panded Programme of Technical Assistance of the  United Nations. In fact, there will be a large  carry-over in the special Technical Assistance .  account of the United Nations at the end of this  year. Substantially increased funds should be  available in 1953.
(60) Thus, at a time when we find it difficult to  reach agreement over a few hundred thousand dol-  lars in the regular budget of Unesco, we are not  using much larger resources within our reach.  This is a paradoxical situation, the resolution of  which should greatly facilitate our budget discus-  sions. My Government, for one, will support the  maintenance of the special United Nations fund of  Technical Assistance at a level which should per-  mit Unesco to draw from this fund in 1953 the  amount necessary to finance its proposed pro-  gramme in the field of technical assistance: about  $5,500,000 outside our regular budget, or close to  $2,000,000 more than this year.
(61) After all I have said, I do not need totell you  of our deep and abiding interest in Unesco. Our  one concern, a concern that I know to be shared by  many of the delegations here, is that its labours  and limited resources shall be applied where the  most significant results can be obtained - signifi-  cant in terms of the problems that face mankind at  this stage in our history. This means recognizing  urgency in point of time and in point of possible  results. It means doing what is most important  and what Unesco particularly can best do. It  means doing those things which will help the great-  est number to achieve a good life, lived as a good  neighbour and made possible by the sound prospect  of an enduring peace.
(62) With this in mind my delegation has proposed  that the Programme Commission set up a Working  Party on Priorities, which we ourselves suggested  should be renamed a Working Party on Future  Programme and Development. We suggested this  change in order to avoid any possible misunder-  standing. We do not propose that this working  party should reshape our programme for the next  two years: to review this programme is the task  of the Programme Commission. Nor is the work-  ing party intended to deal with budgetary issues.  We do expect it, however, to develop a compre-  hensive resolution or statement, or both, indicating  which activities of Unesco, in the light of contem-  porary and developing needs, warrant special con-  sideration and intensification of effort. We were  impressed, as I am sure you were, by the persua-  sive remarks on the future development of Unesco's  programme made by the delegate of Sweden. We  hope that the Conference will agree that such a  statement or resolution by the working party should  serve as a guide to the Director-General and the  Executive Board in the execution of the programmes  for 1953 and 1954 and the planning and drafting of  the programmes for 1955 and 1956.
(63) Let me conclude by looking beyond this hall  and beyond the short space of time during which  we shall be together in this beautiful city of Paris.  Our Director-General, in a brilliant formulation  of an essential truth, warned us against "a surfeit  of international resolutions" not matched by the  "national resolution in each country to put them  into effect". Whatever we do here’ will remain  barren unless it can be translated into action by  ourselves, by our National Commissions and by  our governments in our respective countries. This  means that an obligation to develop National Com-  missions rests upon Member States - and I was  Happy to hear the leader of the Australian delega-  tion speak of the key rôle that National Commis-  sions must play. It also means that this General  Conference must pass resolutions with restraint.
(64) In my own country, the interest of the Amer-  ican people in the great work of Unesco and their  will to co-operate in it are reflected in the vigorous  labours of our National Commission, which repre-  sents what is best in American life. It is supported  by intellectual and religious leaders, artists and  scholars, workers and employers - menand women  in all walks of life. I speak for them, I speak for  the American people, when I assure you that we  shall do everything in our power to help in laying  the foundations of a lasting peace.
(65) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of the  United States of America and call upon the dele-  gate of Laos, Princess Souvanna Phouma.
(66) Princess SOUVANNA PHOUMA (Laos) -  (Translation from the French) Mr. President, it  is with feeling and with full awareness of the honour  which falls upon me that I express to you today our  warm enthusiasm for Unesco's work and our faith  in the achievement of international understanding  through instruction and education. Mr. Director-  General, what tributes can I add to those which the  previous distinguished speakers have already paid  you? The Kingdom of Laos, having only recently  been admitted to membership of the Organization,  is still, as it were, a "supernumerary; neverthe-  less, I must express my admiration of the masterly  way in which you have guided Unesco's destinies  up to the present time. Ladies and gentlemen, we  have now been represented among you for one year,  and for this we have to thank both France, who  sponsored our candidature, and you yourselves,  who were good enough to vote us into your distin-  guished assembly. On behalf of the Royal Govern-  ment of Laos, I assure you of our deep gratitude.
(67) The Government of my country has always  been concerned with the development of school  education. Even when no law on the subject had  yet been passed, the schools were open to boys and  girls and the teachers were required to take courses  in hygiene and first aid every year so that they  might tend the physical health as well as the minds  of their pupils. Buddhist priests were called upon  - 127 -   II-9  to teach in the villages where there are no lay  teachers. Catholic missionaries and Protestant  ministers later opened their own schools. In order  to meet the ever-increasing needs of the rural  population, mobile schools were established, served  by devoted teachers who visited the various vil-  lages in turn.
(68) Since our admission to membership of Unes-  co, we have passed a law (dated 9 April 1951) on  free and compulsory education.
(69) Moreover, desirous of disseminating infor-  mation about Unesco by all possible means, we  have broadcast, in our own language, some of the  most important articles in Unesco's publications.  Education for living in a world community has been  included in our school syllabuses and, at the be-  ginning of the present month, on the occasion of an  important local festival, we exhibited Unesco's  reproductions of paintings. We have still many  tasks before us: we must continue our literacy  campaign, provide proper fundamental education  and stir the common people from lethargy, provide  places in the schools for all our children and give  them opportunities for higher education; and lastly,  we must imbue them all with the love of the true  and the good.
(70) The difficulties confronting us are every-  where the same. We have just undergone a tragic  experience ourselves and are still feeling the con-  sequences of a war which, although we are not now  directly engaged in it, is devastating a neighbour-  ing and friendly country. This is hinderihg our  economic development, and our school building  programme cannot keep abreast of the development  of education.
(71) Mr. Director-General, in your Report you  state that the object of all Unesco's activities is  "an extension of the responsibilities of free men to  embrace the whole of mankind". These human  responsibilities are deeply felt by every one of us,  and for their sake I ask you, in conclusion, to  provide, in your next programme, for special  assistance to my country, with its ancient civili-  zation, in its endeavours to train its people in the  rights and duties of man in the modern world.
(72) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Laos and call upon the delegate of Austria.
(73) Mr. Herman ZEISSL (Austria) - Mr. Presi-  dent, fellow delegates, this is the third day of our  debate. So many distinguished and competent col-  leagues have already expressed, in their able and  eloquent speeches, their well-considered opinions  on the problems, the successes and the happily  rare failures of Unesco during this past year, that  I feel bound in duty and in respect to this distin-  guished assembly to be as brief as possible and to  avoid repetitions.
(74) I cannot proceed, however, without expressing  the deeply felt gratitude of my delegation. This is  the fourth time that this Conference is experiencing  PLENARY MEETINGS  the overwhelming hospitality of the French nation  and its great capital, Paris, the mere atmosphere  of which stimulates the spirit and the mind and  which has so aptly been called the brain or the  heart of Western civilization.
(75) Our thanks are due also to our eminent Di-  rector-General and his splendid team of interna-  tional civil servants. We all know how much we  owe to his drive and initiative, as also to his wis-  dom and perseverance.
(76) This session is one of particular importance.  First, because a budget and programme for two  years are to be considered. This increases our  responsibilities, for the effect of any error or  omission might thus be doubled. Secondly, be-  cause important changes in our Constitution are  under discussion. I should like to mention only  one of them, namely, the proposal that in the future  Member States - not men - should be elected to  the Executive Board, while the representatives of  the elected States would be appointed by their  governments. It is certainly logical to argue that  Unesco is not a society of intellectuals, but an  organization of Member States, the costs of which  are paid for by these States; that governments  therefore can justly claim to have their represent-  atives on its governing body and to have the right  to instruct them. Nevertheless, would it be in the  best interests of our Organization and its ideals if  it were governed only by a body of diplomats and  civil servants, freely appointed and freely removed  at the pleasure of their governments? My delega-  tion feels that a compromise could be reached  which would do justice to both principles involved.  There are precedents in the constitutions of some  European universities and even in canon law. Would  it not be possible for governments to present to  their National Commissions a list of three or more  "personae gratae'" from which the Commissions  would choose the national representative on the  Executive Board? Conversely, could not the Na-  tional Commissions present a list of three or more  candidates, from which the governments would  appoint their representative? Or could not the  Executive Board co-opt members for vacant seats  from a panel presented by the respective govern-  ments? And could not the withdrawal of the gov-  ernment representative be made admissible only  at the end of the period of his office? Perhaps it  might be considered premature to discuss this  matter in this general debate; but it needs long  and careful consideration.
(77) Fundamental education and technical assist-  ance in the educational field play, rightly, a most  important part in Unesco's budget and programme.  The importance of these activities is perhaps not  fully accepted and understood in countries with no  illiteracy, with a high standard of general educa-  tion, and with no responsibilities in the field of  colonial administration or trusteeship. It should,  however, be a special task for the National Com-  missions in such countries to awaken the interest  - 128 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  of public opinion in these problems and to make  people understand that, in this shrinking world,  prosperity, security and peace are indivisible, and  that they are called upon not only to give moral  support but also to place experts at the disposal of  the under-developed areas. Some concern has  been expressed in the debate at the implications of  the term "under-developed areas". I am convinced  that no expert from our country working in such  areas - and certainly not the public opinion of our  or any other so-called "donor" country - will ever  assume that this term could in any way reflect up-  on the high value of the ancient and often venerable  civilizations of which such areas have sometimes  been the cradle.
(78) My delegation wishes, however, to express  two reservations concerning the execution of the  programme of fundamental education. We believe  that fundamental education must not remain an  isolated effort, however successful in itself. If it  is to reach its great humanitarian, economic and.  even political goals, it must become part and par-  cel of a much wider and more ambitious plan. If  no more is aimed at from the beginning than the  teaching of the three R's and the most primitive  elements of decent community life and hygiene, it  may proveto be a doubtful blessing in the long run.  To bear full fruit it will have to be immediately  followed by a broad vocational training, carefully  adapted to the economic structure of the respect-  ive national bodies, and an intensive training to  form the capacity and habit of independent, clear  judgment. In the face of these enormous educa-  tional tasks, it appears indispensable to make use  of all willing and able organizations and persons  in this field. It would be a terrible waste to miss  the opportunity of integrating the mission schools  of all denominations into the great scheme, and to  refuse the co-operation of institutions, men and  women whose life-long experience and uncondi-  tional devotion would prove an invaluable asset.
(79) The second proviso concerns the necessity,  ‘in spite of the great and fully justified effort in  basic education and technical assistance, not to  weaken but to strengthen the interest of Unesco in  basic research, in learning at the highest level,  and in cultural activities. We can rely confidently  on this eminent "homme de lettres", the Director-  General, and his able staff, that as in the past this  noble field of our activities will be well looked  after in the future. A slackening in this field  would not only estrange wide intellectual circles  whose support Unesco needs, but would also, in  the long run, dry up the sources from which popu-  lar education draws strength. There must be an  equilibrium between the promotion of science on  the one hand, and what the German philosopher  Dilthey called the "Geisteswissenschaften" - or  the humanities, philosophy and history - on the  other.
(80) Let us not be led, however, into Socratic op-  timism, and expect to find in knowledge alone the
11-9  guarantee of a "good life". We should not close  our eyes to the facts of religious life and its in-  fluence on human behaviour. We have to appeal to  the emotional life and to the metaphysical roots of  human consciousness as well. That is why much  greater emphasis should also be laid on art educa-  tion. The Austrian delegation has laid two reso-  lutions before you, one concerning an Institute of  Information and Research in Art Education, the  other concerning an International Congress on the  formation of music teachers.
(81) We fully agree with the emphasis laid by the  Director-General upon the importance of adequate  contacts between Unesco and youth. While wishing  to do full justice to the efforts of the Secretariat,  I should like to point out that, in our opinion, these  efforts have been sometimes undertaken at too high  a level, mainly reaching only the great world  organizations of youth. There is somehow too  rarefied an atmosphere on these high levels and,  as far as we can see, the masses of young people,  even those organized in youth organizations, have  not been reached. While fully appreciating the  value of the activities of these world organizations,  we believe that still greater success could be  achieved by getting in touch withthe national central  youth institutions in the Member States, through  their respective Ministries or National Commis-  sions. We therefore welcome the promising con-  tacts which a distinguished member of the Unesco  staff has successfully made this summer with the  "Landesjugendreferat' in the Tyrol.
(82) The efforts of Unesco to counteract the destruc-  tive influence of bad literature on young people and to  promote good juvenile literature are highly appreci-  ated in my country. There, a law has been enacted  by which the sale and distribution of harmful litera-  ture to young people can be forbidden and made a  punishable offence. At the same time great quanti-  ties of good literature have been widely distributed  in the tabloid form of harmful literature which has  upto now so much attracted the young. This proved  to be a great success. There is, by the way, a re-  grettable practice by which a country is practically  compelled to import several bad films in order to  have some of the good ones which it wishes toimport.
(83) There are some young people who have suffer-  ed, and are still suffering, badly - the emigrant  and refugee students. The High Commissioner of  the United Nations for Refugee Questions has repeat-  edly drawn attention to this problem. My Govern-  ment has done what it could at the national level, but  there is no doubt that this is an international prob-  lem which, not only because of the human suffering  involved, would be worthy of Unesco's attention.
(84) You will, I hope, permit me to conclude with  two general remarks. We are living in a period in  which economic and financial difficulties are being  experienced by many Member States. We are there-  fore compelled to move cautiously and to prevent  as far as possible measures which must increase  their burden.  -129 -
(85) Our distinguished and popular colleague from  Switzerland, dealing with the financial side of our  deliberations, made an amusing and instructive  excursion into the field of palaeozoology of the mo-  dern horse. As the horse is supposedto be a noble  animal, we can accept the comparison with Unesco.  I fully sympathize with Mr. Piaget if he wants to  protect the poor creature against any attempts of  veterinary surgery; but, on the other hand, I think  we must not dope the creature either.
(86) Mr. Piaget has pointed out most eloquently all  the reasons for which we are entitledto an optimis-  tic outlook and to a feeling of sound achievement.  Let us therefore be careful not to jeopardize this  favourable situation by being lured into the pitfalls  of politics. This precious forum of ours is no  place to fight out the controversies of world poli-  tics and, still less, home politics; nor is it the  place to give way to any political resentment. Our  noble and exclusive task concerns education, sci-  ence and culture. Ladies and gentlemen, let us  stick to the task with singleness of purpose.
(87) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Austria and call upon the delegate of Thailand,
(88) Mr. Luang PIN MALAKUL (Thailand) - Mr.  President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great ho-  nour and privilege to be in such a gathering as the  Unesco General Conference. I am, therefore, very  greatly pleased to be among you once again. It is  a pleasure to see old friends and an honour to make  new ones, especially when we know that we are all  dedicated to the common cause, that is, to work  together for the progress of mankind. Surely,  there is no work as noble as the work of Unesco.
(89) Before I continue, I wish to bring to you the  greetings. and best wishes of my people. In the  name of the people of Thailand, I wish to thank you  all for your part, through recommendations and re-  solutions in previous sessions of the General Con-  ference, in bringing about material and technical  advancement in our system of education. I wish  also to thank the Director-General and his staff for  having carried out those programmes for the bene-  fit of our people. We in Thailand have realized the  truth of what the Director-General says in his Re-  port: ''Unesco has never failed to work with its  Member States.
(90) I must admit that the first time I attended a  session of the General Conference of Unesco I be-  lieved in the ideals of Unesco, but in theory only.  I believed that Unesco had high ideals. I believed  that Unesco had men and resources to carry out  those ideals, but I was apprehensive of what might  be the result when Unesco went into action. After  some experience in Unesco work, my feeling has  changed. It has not changed for the worse; my  apprehension has not grown, but the state of my  feeling has changed. During the past few years I  have taken part in a Unesco regional conference,  presided over a Unesco seminar, and participated  PLENARY MEETINGS  in various projects through which I have come into  contact with many Unesco experts. I have also  worked in the National Commission. I have seen  many difficulties and have solved many in the sphere  of work in which I take part. All these have con-  firmed my belief in the ideals of Unesco, and have  given me more confidence in its work. But I still  retain some doubts; these doubts, however, have  made me more determined to carryout my workto  the best of my ability. I believe more firmly that  only by education can we have everlasting peace,  Philanthropy in education is the best philanthropy.
(91) Turning to the Director-General's Report and  his speech of last Thursday, I wish to praise it  whole-heartedly. In his Report and his speech the  Director-General said once again that more than  half the people of the world are still illiterate and  in ignorance. We have frequentlyheard this; I, too,  have said it many times. There is a further fright-  ening note in the Report: "In certain countries the  increase of population is outpacing the development  of the educational system, so that the number of  illiterate persons is in fact growing'. This state-  ment has given me a lot of thought. Who will re-  medy this, and in what ways shall it be done? Whom  can we blame for the present state of affairs? We  cannot blame Unesco, because Unesco can do no  more than it is doing with such limited means. If  we stop all other activities except this fight against  illiteracy, it is still open to doubt if we can suc-  ceed. We might help to solve this problem, I think,  by finding more appropriate methods and looking  for other resources; but these, I am happy to note,  are already the lines taken by Unesco.
(92) Coming to facts and figures, I should ‘like to  refer to the world network of fundamental education  centres. Let me congratulate the Director-General  on the good work being done at Patzcuaro, and let  me extend my sincerest wishes for success at  Sirs-el-Layan. However, I should also like to ex-  press a note of disappointment in this matter. We  started to talk aboutthese centres a long time ago,  but only two have so far come into being; this is  rather slow. It is a pity that Unesco has not been  successful in acquiring funds from sources outside  the budget of the Organization. The countries in  the various regions which at the last session of the  General Conference expressed a desire to have  such centres should help themselves more in order  to make such centres materialize - including Thai-  land for the South East Asia region. I firmly be-  lieve that this method of self-help will go a long  way, and will receive the support of other nations.  In the field of fundamental education Thailand is  helping herself, but this does not appear in the  Director-General's Report. The fault is ours be-  cause we did not acquaint him with the facts.
(93) For example, our Ministry of Education has  created the Division of Educational Information in  the Department of Educational Technique. One of  its functions is to make people more aware of fun-  damental education as a solution to their social and  - 130 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  economic problems,  Unesco.
(94) In 1952 the Ministry of Education conducted  two national seminars on Administration and Me-  thods of Teaching in Adult Education. The first one  was at Chachoengsao in the eastern province and  the second at Yala in the south. We hope to carry  on.the work in the north and in the north eastern  provinces next year.
(95) The Ministry of Education is opening a new  course in education at the Prasarnmitr Training  College. The purpose is to train men to work in  co-operation with Unesco experts in the future and  also with our own men who have been trained abroad.
(96) The Government of Thailand has appropriated  a sum of 5,000,000 bahts ($400,000) for the pre-  liminary work of establishing the fundamental edu-  cation centre at Ubol in the north eastern province.  This is in accordance with the scheme already re-  ported to Unesco.
(97) I shall now return to the Director-General's  comprehensive and revealing Report. I should like  to talk about missions and projects, and to present  some ideas that have arisen from the reading of  that Report and from past experiences of my own.
(98) According to the Report, the missions sent  under the ordinary programme, which are short-  term ones, are intended to carry out surveys and  make recommendations for whose implementation  they are not expected to be responsible. This, even  on the surface, is rather frightening, because the  system will need really able men to make it work.  From my experience I find that in so short a time  it is difficult for the missions to get to know the  customs and interests of the country, and to find  ways and means of bringing about the best results.  There is a danger that when they cannot go deeply  into the subject they will be inclined to suggest re-  commendations that have been found good for other  countries, but which will not fit the conditions and  environment of the country concerned. What we  need is a new but simple system: local experts  could make apreliminary survey and thenthe mis-  sion could check that survey. When recommenda-  tions are to be made, the local experts should take  part in the discussion and formulation of the recom-  mendations. ‘This is just a suggestion which, I  think, can be developed.
(99) In any project, the needs ofthe country should  be defined as clearly and as fully as possible and  made known to the experts before they accept the  undertaking. They might otherwise come with pre-  conceived ideas, based on their own experiences  elsewhere, which may not fit at all for the country  concerned. In such a case, when confronted with  new problems and a new environment, they are  often reluctant to change their ideas. Some experts  appear to be so eager to render service that they  plunge into the work without first considering the  environment and the real needs, with the result that  the benefits arising from their work are not as  great as they might have been.  according to the ideals of  II-9
(100) Iremember that, inhis speech, the Director-  General said that co-ordination is not an easy under-  taking. Iheartily agree with him. Even in Thai-  land, where the work is on a much smaller scale,  I feel the same thing. There are various missions  and various forms of assistance which need to be  co-ordinated with the work of different ministries  and departments. We have attempted to solve the  problem by establishing what we call "the Central  Co-ordinating Board", of which I have the honour  to be Chairman. This Board comprises the heads  of missions or organizations and the representa-  tives of the ministries and departments concerned.  It is the duty of the Central Co-ordinating Board to  solve any difficulties which may arise.
(101) I should like to stress again the determina-  tion of Thailand to work with the rest of the world  towards everlasting peace. I must thank many  countries for their fine co-operation. Some release  mento work as experts and specialists in my coun-  try, for example, and others offer scholarships and  fellowships. . Thailand has made a small contribu-  tion, within our means, by awarding scholarships  and fellowships to those who wish to study what we  have to offer in Thailand. When there is a regional  conference or meeting in our country, we gladly  welcome the delegates and observers. There was  a conference last year and there will be a meeting  next month. I should like to mention here that, at  the beginning of this year, 100,000 teachers all  over the country contributed a sum of money for the  building of an assembly hall for educational pur-  poses. This assembly hall could also be used for  future Unesco conferences and meetings.
(102) Before I conclude, I wish to mention a far-  reaching change in the minds of the people of Thai-  land. This change has been inspired by Unesco.  Some of you may already know that we have a Cha-  choengsao project which is a ten-year plan. In the  Director-General's Report it is described as ''a new  approach". Our aim is to reorganize all types of  educational activity at all levels simultaneously in  that area. During the first five years work will be  limited to the Chachoengsao area only, and in the  following years we shall attempt to extend this work  to other areas as the yearly appropriation permits.  Although we are only in the second year of the plan,  however, there are visits from teachers from other  areas almost every week. They come to learn the  methods of organization and to use them in their own  situations. The good work spreads by itself. The  Government is pleased with the project and supports  it whole-heartedly. I am happy to inform you that  the budgetary support from the Government for this  single project has so far been increased in a geo-  metric progression. In 1951 we received 1,000,000  bahts and this year 2, 000, 000 bahts; next year we  shall get 4, 000, 000 bahts, or $320, 000.
(103) The activities of Unesco are well supported  in Thailand, and are working smoothly. The ex-  perts and specialists are happy in their work. I  might even add that there are many who, on the ex-  - 131 -   II-9  piration of their terms of office, are reluctant to  leave Thailand. The work is going well with sup-  port from all sides, but there is still much tobe  done. We still need a great deal of assistance in  the near future. The work of education is a trem-  endous one, and it takes time. However, I have  always encouraged teachers by saying that the work  of teaching is like the cultivation of an orchid: it  takes a long time, but when it bears flowers, they  far surpass in beauty any other flowers. I have  every reason to believe that, with Unesco support,  our orchid is going to bear flowers much sooner  than expected.
(104) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Thailand and call upon the delegate of Syria.
(105) Mr.TAYARA (Syria) - (Translation from the  French) Mr. President, fellow delegates, Ishould  like to join the previous speakers in expressing  satisfaction with the progress made by Unesco dur-  ing recent years. At the same time,-I wish to pay  tribute to the Director-General for his clear con-  ception of Unesco's aims and for his firm resolve  to realize them by better co-ordination of the vari-  ous efforts being made. The Syrian delegation ex-  presses its gratitude to Mr. Torres Bodet for the  work he has accomplished, which appears all the  more substantial if we consider the inevitable dif-  ficulties of the first years of an organization's ac-  tivities and the circumstances of the present time.  Unesco is a young body, but I feel that six years of  collective effort have considerably helped the Or-  ganization to grow up. The excellent Report of our  Director-General is proof of that.
(106) We all know that Unesco is not working in a  vacuum; on the contrary, it is working in a world  in which political relations are strained to the ut-  most; a world in which economic and social con-  flicts limit the scope of the Organization's activi-  ties. However much we, here, proclaim the spirit  of co-operation and international understanding, if  our activities are thwarted by political tensions we  can have no influence on the minds of others, and  we shall gradually lose faith in our own efforts. If  the intentions of Member States are honest, they  must. whenever possible, make it clear that Unesco  shall not be exposed to political influences, and must  proclaim their devotion to the ideals of justice and  the fellowship of mankind. Ë
(107) May I say here that, both in theory and in  practice, science, culture and education, in peace  and democracy, have always been the watchwords  of the Syrian Government. The State facilitates  and supervises the education of its citizens in all  forms and at all levels. The first idea of the Sy-  rian Government was to increase its educational  budget to the maximum, At the present time, our  educational budget, which represents 22% of the  entire national budget, is higher than that of any  other government department. Our new Constitu-  tion proclaims the principles of compulsory prim-  PLENARY MEETINGS  ary education and of free secondary education,  Private schools which are subsidized by the State  are also contributing to this work of collective edu-  cation. We may therefore say that the day is ra-  pidly approaching when illiteracy will be completely  wiped out in our country; that is one of the aims of  the present Government, which I have the honour  to represent at this Conference.
(108) I should like to draw Unesco's attention to  the appalling situation of thousands of Palestinian  refugee children, driven from their country by a  shameful act of aggression. Of a total of 14, 000  pupils, 9,000 have been enrolled, without fees, in  the public schools, and some 3, 000 are being edu-  cated in private schools subsidized by the State.  But, in addition to these 14, 000 pupils, there are  thousands of other Palestinian children who are not  being taught at all. If Syria were obliged to assume  responsibility for the education of all these child-  ren, its educational budget would exceed its means.  The help given to Palestinian refugees by the Uni-  ted Nations therefore has our full support. That  Organization is primarily responsible for helping  these refugees, but Unesco itself cannot remain in-  different to their misery. The Universal Declara-  tion of Human Rights speaks of education as a fund-  amental right of all human beings. Article I of our  Constitution attests our belief in human rights and  fundamental freedoms; the first of these rights is  the right to education. Unesco is therefore under  an obligation to contribute by every means in its  power to the education of these Palestinian children.  True peace cannot be established without education  and culture.
(109) There is no doubt that in the world of today  the field of scientific, cultural and educational acti-  vities has extended enormously. Consequently,  Unesco cannot expect to be able to carry out all its  projects within a single year. The Syrian delega-  tion considers that Unesco must be able to make a  distinction between projects for which it can assume  direct responsibility and those which must be im-  plemented by Member States or other Specialized  Agencies, for, in view of the limited resources  available and the importance of the projects envi-  saged, there must be no waste of either effort or  money. The Director-General's Report shows that  the Secretariat has already made great progressin  that direction; but the Syrian delegation would like  to draw the attention of the General Conference to  the following points:
(110) (1) The Director-General's report speaks of  important work done by non-governmental organi-  zations with the assistance of Unesco. Without  underestimating the importance of the co-operation  of these organizations in Unesco's fundamental  enterprises, we should like this co-operation to  take the form of contracts for the carrying out of  specific tasks. We regret to note that the activi-  ties of these organizations are limited to Western  countries; the difficulty of finding the experts re-  quired in Eastern countries is no excuse for limi-  = 132 =   PLENARY MEETINGS II-9  ting their field of activity. The East is just as en-  titled as the West to see the results of our work.
(111) (2) Unesco organizes regional conferences  and seminars in different parts of the world. Such  conferences are of real value, not only for the  study of problems affecting the regions concerned,  but also for the strengthening of cultural relations.  Nevertheless, most of these conferences culminate  in resolutions which are kept in the archives of the  Secretariat or communicated to the various States  without any attention being paidto their implemen-  tation or to the practical difficulties they have  raised,
(112) (3) Unesco enlists the services of experts in  the implementation of its ordinary programme and  its technical assistance programme. At the begin-  ning of their mission, these experts frequently have  to spend most of their time in studying the social  conditions and economic difficulties of the countries  to which they are sent. If Unesco were able to  come to an agreement with the other Specialized  Agencies witha view to organizing regional centres  for the briefing of experts, it would avoid much  waste of time and money. We would venture to  draw the attention of the Conference to the impor-  tance of Unesco fellowships. The Syrian delegation  would be glad if the Secretariat were able toin-  crease the number of these fellowships.
(113) (4) The results of the various cultural acti-  vities can be communicated to the common people  only through the vehicle of their native tongue. There  isno doubt that the translation of certain of Unesco's  publications into the languages of the countries con-  cerned is a matter for Member States and their  National Commissions; but Unesco also has a duty  to perform in this field: it is particularly desirable  that the Secretariat's publications should be trans-  lated into languages, such as Arabic, which are  spoken by millions of people and which have a rich  heritage of civilization behind them, if the Organi-  zation's appeal to the ordinary man and woman is  to reach those for whom it is intended.
(114) The Syrian delegation feels that, in the case  of the Arab world, these translations should be made  by professional Arab translators, of whom there are  still very few in Unesco House. In applying the  principle of geographical distribution, account  should be taken not only of the number of staff mem-  bers needed, but also of the importance of their re-  spective functions.
(115) In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I am  glad to repeat that the mind of man in which the de-  fences of peace are to be constructed must be the  mind of a free man. The march of events cannot  be held back and those who are trying to do so are  sowing the seeds of conflict in the world. Univer-  sal peace can become a practical reality only if  governments and peoples make known their inten-  tions and strictly observe the principles of justice  and freedom, outside as well as inside Unesco. In  the field of political relations, it would be an error  to imagine that our problems are exclusively tech-  nical ones. At the present time, there can be no  lasting peace unless there is a spiritual revolution;  a just world cannot be built upon force, pride,  hatred and aggression. The world can be saved  only by a spiritual revival. As is proclaimed in  our Constitution, peace must be founded on the in-  tellectual and moral solidarity of mankind.
(116) The PRESIDENT -  Syria.  I thank the delegate of  The meeting rose at 12. 55 p. m.  - 133 -