PLENARY MEETINGS II-22  TWENTY - SECOND PLENARY MEETING  Monday, 8 December 1952, at 6 p-m.  President: Mr. S.M. SHARIF (Pakistan)  CONTENTS  Election of Members of the Executive Board . . . . 231  ELECTION OF MEMBERS OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD
(1) The PRESIDENT - The twenty-second plenary  meeting of the General Conference is called to  order. The only item of business before us this  afternoon is to receive and take action on the re-  “port of the Nominations Committee. This is item
16 of the revised agenda - the election of members  of the Executive Board. I shall ask the Chairman  of the Nominations Committee, Mr. Bender, to  present the report.
(2) Mr. F. BENDER (Netherlands), Chairman of  the Nominations Committee - Mr. President, fel-  low delegates, I have the honour to present the  report of the Nominations Committee, which met  this morning and this afternoon to consider the  vacancies tobe filled on the Executive Board.
(3) I should like to divide my report into two  parts: first, the question of the seat made vacant  by the regrettable death of Count Jacini. The  French delegate suggested that Mr. Vittorino  Veronese of Italy take that seat, and the Com-  mittee agreed to this by acclamation. My first  suggestion, therefore, is that Mr. Vittorino Vero-  nese be appointed to the Executive Board.
(4) We then had a full discussion on the other  eight seats to be filled - so full, indeed, that per-  haps a further long discussion in this plenary  meeting will not be necessary. There were 60  delegations present and voting, so that the abso-  lute majority was 31. The following votes werere-  corded: for Mr. Luther Evans of the United States  of America - 51; for Mr. Laugier of France - 50;  for Mr. Garcia Calderén of Peru - 41; for Mr.  Haguiwara of Japan - 40; for Mr. Pin Malakul of  Thailand - 39; for Mr. Raadi of Iran - 35; for  Mr. Nielsen of Denmark - 33; and for Mr. Secco  Ellauri of Uruguay - 32. These eight persons ob-  tained an absolute majority. I further have to re-  cord the votes for Mr. Zeissl of Austria - 30; Mr.  Massaquoi of Liberia - 27; Mr. Ferrara of Cuba -
24: Mr. Osorio de Almeida of Brazil - 24; Mr.  Alisbah of Turkey - 22; and Mr. Marsden of New  Zealand - 12. *
(5) Ihave the honour, Mr. President, to present  this report for your consideration.
(6) The PRESIDENT - I thank the Chairman of the  Nominations Committee for presenting the report.  The report is in two parts: one deals with the el-  ection to complete the unexpired portion of the  term of the late Count Jacini; the other deals with  the election of the eight members of the Executive  Board. I propose to take these two separately, if  you agree.
(7) In this connexion, I should like to remind the  Conference of the rules governing the election of  members of the Executive Board. Rule 87 of the  Rules of Procedure lays down: ''The election of  the Director-General and members of the Execu-  tive Board shall be by secret ballot". Section (2)  of Rule 95, amended, states: "Only delegates  nominated either by the Nominations Committee  or by two delegations, before the ballot, may stand  for election. In other words, you may accept the  report of the Nominations Committee; or, if you  wish to add more names for consideration by the  General Conference, it will be necessary for two  delegations to sponsor such nominations. I sug-  gest to you, fellow delegates, that so far as the  election of a member to complete the unexpired  term of office of Count Jacini is concerned, we  waive these two rules, by a two-thirds majority,  to save time. We shall then take up the election  of the eight members. The Conference may again  decide, if it wishes, to accept the report of the  Nominations Committee by acclamation - to waive  these rules; but if delegations wish to sponsor  further names for the consideration of the Confe-  rence, then it will be necessary to observe these  rules.
(8) Do you accept the suggestion that the rules be  waived, in dealing with the first vacancy? I take  it by your applause that you are in favour of waiv-  ing the rules for this one vacancy.  - 231 -   II-22
(9) We vote now on the first part of the report,  which recommends the election of Mr. Veronese  to the seat made vacant by the unexpired term of  the late Count Jacini. Will those in favour please  raise their hands? Those against? ... Elected  unanimously. I declare Mr. Veronese to be the  newly elected member of the Executive Board.
(10) You have now before you the recommenda-  tions of the Nominations Committee concerning  the election of eight members of the Executive  Board: Mi. Evans, Mr. Laugier, Mr. Garcia  Calderôn, Mr. Haguiwara, Mr. Pin Malakul, Mr.  Raadi, Mr. Nielsen, and Mr. Secco Ellauri. Do  you wish to accept the report, or does any delega-  tion wish to sponsor other candidates? I call upon  the delegate of Australia.
(11) Mr. Charles J. A. MOSES (Australia) - Mr.  President, fellow delegates, I just wonder whether  we, could possibly avoid having a secret ballot in  this case, because the Rule states specifically that  there should be one. Whilst there was a special  case for that single appointment to replace Count  Jacini, here there is a list of names. We are in-  structed under these Rules of Procedure to have  a secret ballot, and I think it is rather difficult to  avoid it. That is all I wanted to say, Sir.
(12) The PRESIDENT - I call upon the delegate of  Liberia.
(13) Mr. Nathaniel V. MASSAQUOI (Liberia) -  Mr. President, fellow delegates, I have taken the  floor on a question which I feel is very important,  and one of the fundamental principles for which  Unesco was founded. We have, in this Organiza-  tion, been able to increase the number of mem-  bers on the Executive Board with the idea of having  equal geographical distribution according to the  various cultures of the world. We have at this  session, and have had at previous sessions, the  participation of an African country, the only Afri-  can republic that is represented in Unesco. That  African republic, Liberia, has been represented  on the Budget Committee, and the members of that  Committee can testify to the fact that we have  served faithfully and efficiently and that we have  been able to measure up to the task placed upon  us. That very republic, Liberia, has been repre-  sented in almost all the working parties of this  Conference: in the working parties on education,  mass communication, and cultural activities. You  have also given that country the opportunity to  serve as one of the Vice-Presidents, and in that  capacity we have sat with the best of the world and  have no reason to feel ashamed of ourselves: we  have been able to meet the task. You now have the  opportunity, not to give us laurels - we do not  want laurels - but to give us what is due to us.
(14) Today the Philippines, China, and Mexico  favoured our nomination to the Executive Board.  But we did not feel that speeches were necessary  PLENARY MEETINGS  to select Board members in an Organization of  this nature. Many of us have, in addition to our  cultural background in Africa, degrees from Euro-  pean universities; we are also bilingual or tri-  lingual; we are also philosophers in the Western  sense. Some of you may not know that Africa has  a culture, but those of you from the Arab coun-  tries and from the East have read and know about  some other countries of Africa. Those of you who  are administering Trust Territories have been  confronted with the genius of Africans.
(15) I am therefore appealing to you, ladies and  gentlemen, to give us another chance, to permit"  the name of the candidate of Liberia to appear be-  fore you, and to reconsider the position you have  taken. In the redistribution of the seats on the  Executive Board you have ignored a whole conti-  nent, a whole race. Are they to serve only and  forever as hewers of wood and drawers of water?  Are they to serve you only to build up your civi-  lization and your culture? A whole race and a  whole continent are not culturally represented;  yet you have a representative of that continent in  your midst and you say he is doing well. I am not  making a political speech; I am appealing to your  consciences. I feel we should be given the oppor-  tunity. to be judged according to our merits and  according to the idea of distribution. We welcome  and we fully support the redistribution which made  it possible for Japan, that great empire, and for  Thailand, the only country in Asia which has not  come under foreign domination, to be represented.  I therefore ‘ appeal to you, Mr. President and  ladies and gentlemen, that, although we did not get  the necessary majority - we had only twenty-seven  votes - you will reconsider our nomination. I ap-  peal to you in the name of all the Africans, in the  name of the entire continent of Africa, to give us  another opportunity. If we are turned down, we  will be satisfied.
(16) The-PRESIDENT - I thank the honourable de-  legate of Liberia for his comments. It is neces-  sary for two delegations to sponsor a nomination.  I now call upon the delegate of Egypt.
(17) Mr. EL DIWANY (Egypt) - (Translation from  the French) Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen,  it is quite true that the whole of Africa is not re-  presented on the Executive Board, for when we  say Africa we think mainly of the black peoples of  that continent.
(18) I am an Egyptian; I come from Africa; but  I consider that we are a minority and that the  black races ought to be represented on the Exe-  cutive Board of this Organization, because hun-  dreds of millions of men and women of those races  occupy by far the greatest part of the African ter-  ritories for which the great countries of Europe  are responsible.
(19) We have never been concerned with politics  here and we have no intention of introducing poli-  - 232 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  tics; but I think the Executive Board ought to in-  clude a representative of these races, which are  specially entitled to our fraternal consideration  because we must never forget that, under our Con-  stitution, Unesco is primarily concerned with.edu-  cation. "Unesco: United Nations Educational..."  Education, first and foremost. Who are the people  most in need of education, of education from an  Organization specifically charged with providing  it? Certainly not the advanced nations, but the  young nations, such as those occupying most of  Africa. I therefore feel that we should really be  failing in our duty if we failed to give those races  representation on the Executive Board.
(20) These are the reasons why I feel we must  give them representation. In the first place, it  would undoubtedly be useful to have a represen-  tative of those races on the Executive Board. I  remember that, a few years ago, we had to dis-  cuss certain questions referred to us by the Trus-  teeship Council, relating to the utility of a verna-  cular language in culture, education, and so forth.  I must admit that we found it very difficult to  reach a decision; we talked of calling in experts.  What is a vernacular language? Is there one, or  several? Are there any dialects? What is the in-  trinsic value of these vernacular languages? If  we had with us someone from the regions of the  world concerned, he would certainly be able to  help us, not perhaps with expert knowledge but in  a more general way, which would promote the  efficiency of our work in the Executive Board.
(21) The other reason is bound up with the con-  figuration of Unesco. Our Organization should re-  present the whole world and ought therefore to in-  clude a member of the Negro race. I myself can  remember our session in Mexico City, when the  President of the Republic of Mexico entertained  the Executive Board. I remember that, at the sug-  gestion of the United Kingdom delegate, Sir John -  Maud, whom we all remember with such apprecia-  tion, it was proposed that Dr. Radhakrishnan  should address the President of the Republic on  behalf of the Executive Board and Unesco. Dr.  Radhakrishnan was an Indian; he had the features,  the subtlety and the depth of mind of his race; he  wore its dress. He made his speech. The next  day, all the South American newspapers spoke of  this Indian as representing the United Nations,  saying that it was untrue that the Organization was  an Anglo-American or Anglo-Latin Organization  but that it was indeed a universal Organization  since an Indian had addressed the President of the  Republic of Mexico!
(22) I should like men of every colour to be re-  presented on the Executive Board. Some of us  have white skins, others yellow; almost every  shade of colour is represented save the Negro  races of Africa. But we have with us here a re-  presentative of those races in the person of a distin-  guished man and a scholar. It is therefore incum-  bent upon us to elect him to the Executive Board.
11-22  and so secure our Organization's universality.
(23) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Egypt and call upon the delegate of China.
(24) Mr. CHEN Yuan (China) - Mr. President, I  do not think it fair that the huge African continent  should not be represented on the Executive Board  of Unesco. I do not think it fair that the many,  many millions of the African race should not be  represented in Unesco. Therefore, I have great  pleasure in supporting the proposal of my Egyptian  colleague that the name of Mr. Massaquoi of Li-  beria be added to the list of nominations.
(25) The PRESIDENT - We have now the proposal,  duly supported by two delegations, to add the name  of Liberia to the list of nominations to be consi-  dered by this Conference. I now call upon the de-  legate of India.
(26) Mr. H. S. MALIK (India) - Mr. President,  I will confess that, after the time we spent over  this question in the Nominations Committee, my  own feeling when I came to this meeting was that  we should ask you to suspend the ordinary Rules  of Procedure and proceed immediately to approval  of the report of the Nominations Committee. I am  not now, Sir, in favour of that procedure. I think  all of us must have been deeply moved by the  statement made by the distinguished delegate of  Liberia. I share the sentiment that the Executive  Board of Unesco is not and cannot be truly repre-  sentative unless we have someone from that great  continent of Africa on the Executive Board, and I  think that here we have the opportunity of appoin-  ting Mr. Massaquoi, a very distinguished man,  who can be of very great service on the Executive  Board. I should therefore like to join in the appeal  that has been made by our friend from Liberia and  support the proposal of the honourable delegates of  Egypt and China that we should give our fullest  consideration to the selection of Mr. Massaquoi.
(27) The PRESIDENT - I now call upon the dele-  gate of Switzerland.
(28) Mr.. Pierre BOURGEOIS (Switzerland) -  (Translation from the French) Mr. President, la-  dies and gentlemen, the delegate of Egypt has  given you so good an explanation of the reasons  why he is voting for the representative of Liberia,  that I have very little to add in order to explain  why the Swiss delegation, too, will vote for him,  and urges you to do so.
(29) We have always supported the view that the  Executive Board should consist of men of indepen-  dent mind. When we have to make a choice be-  tween them, we should take into account the re-  quirements of a just and equitable geographical  distribution. I feel that this is exactly the sort of  case in which we should apply that principle.  - 233 -
(30) The PRESIDENT - I call upon the delegate of  the United Kingdom.
(31) Mr. F. R. COWELL (United Kingdom) - Mr.  President and fellow delegates, I think that the  arguments that we have heard already will bring  most of us to believe that it is necessary to look  again at the nominations proposed and to consider  them in a fully democratic manner in the plenary  meeting, as has already been suggested. I think  what the honourable delegate of India said is very  important, and, much as many of us would no  doubt have liked to cut short this process, in the  best interests of Unesco, we should undoubtedly go  through with it. Many of us will feel, however,  that if the list is to be reopened for one name, we  ought, in fairness to other people who are willing  to serve on the Board and to other countries which  I am sure many of us would wish to see repre-  sented, to allow ourselves to reconsider the list  that is before us.
(32) It is with this thought in mind that the United  Kingdom delegation would like to call the attention  of this assembly to the very strong claims for fur-  ther consideration of that large part of Central  Europe which has hithertohad no representation at  all on the Executive Board of Unesco. I refer to  the home of the German-speaking people and, in  particular, to the only candidate from that part of  the world whose name has been before the Nom-  inations Committes - Mr. Zeissl of Austria. The  United Kingdom delegation would like to ask this  plenary meeting to add Mr. Zeissl's name to the  list of candidates for election to the Executive  Board.
(33) The PRESIDENT - I call upon the delegate of  France.
(34) Mr. LUCET (France) - (Translation from the  French) Mr. President, the French delegation  will be very brief. As the delegate of the United  Kingdom has just said, since it is impossible to  take the vote immediately and since the question  has been reopened, we think it only logical to put  forward the nomination of Mr. Herman Zeissl of  Austria once more.
(35) I shall not repeat the arguments already ad-  vanced in the Nominations Committee ‘and men-  tioned a moment or two ago by the United Kingdom  delegate. But when we are considering the ques-  tion of the better representation of different cul-  tures, it seems to us that it would be a mistake to  PLENARY MEETINGS  overlook the need for a representative of Central  European culture on our Executive Board.
(36) The PRESIDENT - This proposal has also  been duly sponsored by two delegations and, un-  less the delegations wish to add another name, I  recommend that we proceed to the vote. Is it your  wish that we now proceed to the vote?... We have  now ten candidates. Eight are recommended by  the Nominations Committee: Mr. Luther Evans,  Mr. Laugier, Mr. Garcia Calderôn, Mr. Hagui-  wara, Mr. Pin Malakul, Mr. Raadi, Mr. Nielsen,  and Mr. Secco Ellauri. We have, in addition, two  other nominations: Mr. Massaquoi and Mr. Zeissl.
(37) The Chairman of the Nominations Committee  explained fully, earlier in the afternoon, the pro-  cedure of election. I do not think it is necessary  for me to repeat this, but I wish to remind you  that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure,  the following shall be considered invalid: ballot  papers on which there are more names than there  are persons to be elected; ballot papers on which  the voters have revealed their identity, in parti-  cular, by signing their names or indicating the  name of the Member State they represent. You  may vote for eight or less than eight. Before ask-  ing you to vote, I should like to request the dele-  gates of Indonesia and Mexico to act as tellers.  The vote was taken by secret ballot.
(38) The PRESIDENT - The number of Member  States entitled to vote at this session was 60.  Absent: none; abstentions: none; invalid ballot  papers: none. A total of 60 votes was recorded,  so that the number of votes constituting the majo-  rity required for election was 31. The following  is the result of the ballot: Mr. Luther Evans: 55;  Mr. Henri Laugier: 50; Mr. V. Garcia Calderén:
32; Mr. Jakob Nielsen: 31;  These eight persons have obtained the neces-  sary majority. Mr. Massaquoi obtained 30 votes  and Mr. Zeissl, 27. I declare the first eight -  Mr. Evans, Mr. Laugier, Mr. Garcia Calderôn,  Mr. Pin Malakul, Mr. Raadi, Mr. Haguiwara,  Mr. Secco Ellauri and Mr. Nielsen - duly elected  members of the Executive Board until the end of  the Ninth Ordinary Session of the General Con-  ference.  The meeting rose at 7.25 p. m.  - 234 -