PLENARY MEETINGS  EIGHTH PLENARY MEETING  Saturday, 15 November 1952, at 3.30 p.m.  President: Dr. SARVEPALLI RADHAKRISHNAN (India)  CONTENTS  Discussion of the Director-General's Report (continu-  ation): Speeches by the delegates of the Union of  South Africa, India, Dominican Republic, Israel and  Costa Rica.  DISCUSSION OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL’S REPORT  (continuation)
(1) The PRESIDENT -  Andrews,  Africa.  I call upon Mr. H. T.  of the delegation of the Union of South
(2) Mr. H. T. ANDREWS (Union of South Africa) -  Mr. President, fellow delegates, the South African  delegation would not wish this debate to end without  taking the opportunity, as so many other delega-  tions have done, of adding its tribute of apprecia-  tion to the Director-General for his annual Report  on the activities of our Organization. This Report,  so comprehensive and so concise, merits the clos-  est study by the Member States; it reflects the  greatest credit on the Director-General and his  collaborators in the Secretariat. But above all,  Mr. President, my delegation wishes to express  its deep sense of obligation to the Director-General  for the inspiring, yet very practical and down-to-  earth, address with whichhe introduced his report -  an address which enabled all of us still better to  appreciate the highlights of the work achieved  during the past year, and more particularly the  amount of thought that had been devoted to the con-  centration of the programme itself, and the priori-  ties connected with that programme. The Director-  General well deserves the many compliments ex-  pressed from this rostrumfor the manner in which  he has dealt with the basic programme.
(3) At past sessions of the General Conference,  my delegation, along with many others, always  pleadedfor a true concentration, athorough simpli-  fication and selection of the tasks ahead with an eye  to the establishment, thereafter, of appropriate  priorities within our financial resources. Our pur-  pose in advocating this course of action was always  the achievement of a realistic programme, and  with it the creation of an efficient Organization fully  qualified to discharge the important obligations  laid upon it by our Constitution. As the Report  indicates, and as the Director-General himself has  observed, in spite of the efforts that have been  made to achieve concentrations and to establish  priorities, there are still shortcomings. It will  therefore be the responsibility and duty of this  Conference to assist him further in that direction.  In the view of my delegation, the number of items  in the A. 1 category of priorities could be reduced  still further without endangering Unesco's prog-  ramme, its contents or its balance. We therefore  welcome the very practical proposals submitted to  the Conference by the United States delegation on  the subject of priorities and the concentration of  efforts and resources. On this important matter  of resources, I understood the distinguished leader  of the Canadian delegation to say, in his reference  to the budget, that he would support the stabilizing  of the 1953-54 budget at the 1952 level. May I say  that this view accords with the instructions of my  delegation. We think that the budget might very  realistically and appropriately be confined to  programme items of A.1 priority, with a ceiling  of $8,600,000 for 1953 and $8, 900, 000 for 1954,
(4) There is no need at this stage of our debate to  go into any detail under this head of the budget.  However, if I may be specific for a brief moment,  my Government's view is that considerable scope  is offered for savings to be effected in certain of  the items indicated on pages 564-567 of the Draft  Budget. My delegation has in mind in particular  such items as 'subventions', "travel of staff on  official business' and "transportation of household  effects" in 1954, "communication services', and  "miscellaneous services" in 1954.
(5) It is also my delegation's view that, in the  interest of overall économy, this Conference might  very well reconsider the question of the venue of  future biennial sessions of the General Conference.  - 111 -   II-8 PLENARY MEETINGS  We suggest that the credits that would be taken up  if we sat elsewhere than in Paris might more use-  fully be devoted to items of highest priority in our  programme of work.
(6) You will forgive me for having entered into  these rather practical matters, but as other speak-  ers have so rightly said, and indeed as the Director-  General has so frankly recognized, the resources  of the Organization, which means the resources of  its individual Members, are pathetically limited in  relation to its extensive aims and objectives. But  if we proceed with proper modesty now and stabi-  lize our budgets for at least the immediate years  ahead, as so many other international organizations  have been compelled, by force of circumstances,  to do, we shallinthe end, I am sure, achieve better  direction and better stability in our long-term pro-  grammes.
(7) It was, Ithink, the distinguished leader of the  Norwegian delegation who rightly said, earlier in  this debate, that we are building not for next year  or the year after, but for generations ahead. This  task of measuring resources against tasks to be  performed is, indeed, always full of frustration.  May I therefore, in the same line of thought as our  Norwegian friend, quote St. Francis of Assisi:  "Where there is patience and humility, there can  never be anger or worry."
(8) Mr. President, let me conclude by saying that  the South African delegation will continue to place  its humble services at the disposition of this Con-  ference and of our Organization at all times.
(9) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of the  Union of South Africa and call upon Mr. H. 8S.  Malik, of India.
(10) Mr. H. S. MALIK (India) - Mr. President,  fellow delegates, the delegation of India has stud-  ied with particular interest the Report of the  Director-General on the activities of Unesco and  the proposed Programme and Budget Estimates  for 1953 and 1954. These remarkable documents  testify to the great ability, industry, zeal and high  sense of purpose animating the Director-General  and his colleagues in the Secretariat as well as in  the Executive Board. For the first time, we have  a clear picture of Unesco in action, of its past  achievements and its future tasks.
(11) The success achieved is striking. Six years  ago we were the victims of our own enthusiasm,  groping our way and experimenting endlessly in the  vast fields of education, science and culture. A  number of projects were embarked upon and many  more were planned. This wide diffusion of activi-  ties, in the absence of adequate resources, had its  inevitable results - wastage, duplication, and little  in the way of achievement. In this confusion of  effort, there was a real danger that, busying our-  selves with unimportant and small matters, we  might lose sight of the really important aims and  become the victims of frustration. This tendency,  however, was soon checked; and from the Third  Session of the General Conference onwards great  improvements have been effected. Unesco has now  become an efficient and useful international Organ-  ization, performing tasks which cannot be under-  taken by any. other body. Our programme is now  well balanced and clearly related to immediate  ends as well as long-term objectives. Increasing  concentration and co-ordination -of activities have  added to the effectiveness of the Organization and  yielded significant results.
(12) For this success, the greatest credit goes to  the Director-General, Mr. Torres Bodet, who has  proved to be a truly inspiring and dynamic leader  in the cause of internationalism. Mr. Director-  General, permit me, on behalf of my delegation, to  express our admiration and appreciation of your  work and achievements.
(13) The task of building the intellectual and moral  solidarity of all péoples and constructing the defen-  ces of peace in the minds of men has only just begun,  and our modest success must not make us unmindful  of the magnitude of the work still to be done. Some  of the projects have already yielded excellent  results. In fundamental education, the study of  methods and techniques has now led to the estab-  lishment of training centres and to other concrete  action. The whole programme of dissemination of  culture and science on which we are working, must  surely one day become apowerful, world-wide force  for the advancement of mutual understanding and  enlightenment.
(14) We in India attach great importance to the  study of social tensions, and we should like to con-  gratulate Unesco particularly on the scientific  study of race and on the two official statements  issued on the basis of that study. It is by work of  this kind, which exposes the hollowness - and in-  deed preposterousness - of the assumption of racial  superiority, with all the injustice, bitterness and  strife that it entails, that we must further the cause  of peace and international understanding. For, let  there be no mistake about it, much of the tension  that exists in the world today is due to this arrogant  nonsense of racism. It constitutes one of the major  problems of our time and undoubtedly one of the  greatest dangers to world peace.
(15) We also welcome the programme of education  for living in a world community, which has taken  shape outof a skilful co-ordination of various acti-  vities that were pursued in isolation in the past;  this programme is an excellent example of what  can be done by concentration and co-ordination.
(16) We in India also look upon the whole prog-  ramme of technical assistance for raising stand-  ards of living as work which should command high  priority. It is pleasingto note that, in spite of many  drawbacks, especially that of lack of equipment for  needy countries, Unesco's programme of technical  assistance has already become a reality, bringing  hope andcheerto many people all over the world and  holding out real promise of great things to come.  - 112 -   PLENARY MEETINGS
(17) These are some of the features of our prog-  ramme with which we have reason to be satisfied -  good reason. The noble intentions underlying these  projects have been translated into substantial  results and gains, achieved in a short time with  comparatively limited resources.
(18) I have referred to some of our achievements.  I must now mention certain aspects of our prog-  ramme and organization which cause some con-  cern to my delegation. Are all parts of our prog-  ramme equally effective? Are we getting the best  returns for the time and money spent on various  activities? The Budget Estimates for 1953-1954  reveal that, with the exception of Education, the  largest amount of money and staff is allocated to  the Department of Mass Communication. We are  not very happy about this. Whatever the term  "Mass Communication" might mean, its prog-  ramme activities have not succeeded in making  the impression that some other programme acti-  vities have. It might be a good idea to have a  small press division and pass on some of the other  useful activities of "Mass Communication" to such  departments as Education and Cultural Activities.  Perhaps the Conference could set up a small work-  ing party to report on the effectiveness of the Mass  Communication programme and to formulate sug-  gestions for a possible reorientation of this prog-  ramme and organizational changes involved.
(19) We are glad to see that the programme of  Cultural Activities has now found a direction and  has begun to produce results. Last year, when the  philosophers of East and West gathered at New  Delhi to exchange ideas for building bridges of  understanding between minds and spirits, the meet-  ing created a profound impression in India and, I  have no doubt, in the neighbouring countries as  well. Under another Unesco project, a thriving  public library has been established in Delhi. Its  potentialities are obvious, and it is significant that  it has already become the nucleus of a powerful  movement for public libraries in the region. The  recommendations of the Second Regional Conference  of the National Commissions held at Bangkok, have  been implemented admirably in the fields of biblio-  graphy and documentation. The circulation of exhi-  bitions of works of art hasbeen greatly appreciated,  and the extension of the project for the translation  of great works of literature is very satisfactory.  The success of these projects makes us wonder  whether Unesco should not spend much more money  on cultural understanding and the diffusion of cul-  ture than it has so far been able to do. Moreover,  in the field of culture there can be an equal give-  and-take between the prosperous and the so-called  under-developed countries; and that is a sure road  to a lasting and healthy internationalism. We note  with pleasure thatthe Department of Cultural Acti-  vities is extending its activities to Asia and other  non-Europeanregions in 1953 and 1954. We should  like to see the proposed activities undertaken on a  much bigger scale. In the field of culture we must  II-8  now movefrom a limited programme of collabora-  tion between specialists belonging largely to one or  two regions, to mass contact with peoples all over  the world. In doing so, even in this age of the  atomic bomb, we should not fight shy of seeking the  assistance of religious and spiritual forces, which  still move the great masses of people everywhere,  in the cause of peace and goodwill. The programme  of Cultural Activities now requires further develop-  ment and popularization.
(20) Another question which worries my delegation  is that of administrative costs. Among the general  public there is a growing impression that the ad-  ministrative machinery of international organiza-  tions tends to grow unwieldy and unduly large and  the emoluments of international civil servants ab-  normally high. In Unesco we are spending far too  much money on administration - always at the ex-  pense of the programmes. That is the question I  wish to raise. It is an issue worth examining -  and it is certainly necessary to explain to our cri-  tics why the emoluments of international civil ser-  vants are so comparatively high.
(21) We have always been concerned at the rapid  increase inthe number of international non-govern-  mental organizations receiving subventions and  other assistance from Unesco. It is undoubtedly  necessary and beneficial to Unesco to associate  with the important international organizations in  the fields of education, science and culture. Indeed,  certain essential tasks can be performed only in  co-operation with these bodies. My delegation is  of the opinion that the "bona fides" of these organiza-  tions should be carefully scrutinized, and assis-  tance should be extended only to those important  and comprehensive bodies which are truly inter-  national in character and which cover at least three  continents within the scope of their activities.
(22) Lately we have begun to wonder whether  Unesco's programme and budget and the directions  of the General Conference are not too rigid, tend-  ing to exclude the element of flexibility which is  essential inthe working of all growing organizations  and especially in the case of Unesco. The General  Conference will now approve a programme and bud-  get and detailed work plans for two years, leaving  the Secretariat little scope for embarking upon any  new ideas and activities the *need for which may  arise suddenly in these dynamic and rapidly chang-  ing times. This Conference should see that flexi-  bility is maintained, that the programme specia-  lists are encouraged to think out new ideas and to  apply these whenever necessary.
(23) I should liketo say a word here aboutthe geo-  graphical distribution of posts in the Secretariat  and, more important than this, the need for equal  emphasis in all regions of the world on the imple-  mentation of the programme. There has undoubt-  edly been some improvement in both these fields,  and the position continues to improve; but these  are important matters of which we should never  lose sight. Unesco happens tohave its headquarters  - 113 -   II-8  in this great city of Paris, and English, French  and Spanish are its working languages. These are,  however, extraneous circumstances, and as far as  possible should not be allowed to exclude any com-  petent individuals or groups, from any region of  the world, who can contribute effectively to the  advancement of the work of Unesco. Above all, we  should take every care that the Secretariat does  not become merely an international bureaucracy,  but remains a live, vital organization in constant  and living touch with the regions it serves.
(24). I have expressedthese doubts because we want  to see Unesco succeed in its noble mission. Last  year our Minister of Education, Mr. Abul Kalam  Azad, toldthe General Conference that the Special-  ized Agencies of the United Nations, and especially  Unesco, constituted the best hope of establishing  peace and goodwill in a divided and troubled world.  In expressing this hope the Minister was voicing  the faith of the Indian people in international under-  standing through education, science and culture.  That faith continues to grow in my country, and, of  all the United Nations Agencies, Unesco appeals  most to the imagination and feelings of the people.  It is for this reason that my delegation was really  disturbed when, concluding his inspiring and elo-  quent speech, the Director-General referredto the  three great difficulties encountered by the Organ-  ization. These are serious difficulties threatening  the whole future development of Unesco, and the  Conference should explore all possibilities of over-  coming them.
(25) The limitation of resources can be fatal to an  organization like Unesco. Whether national ex-  chequers canafford to pay increasing contributions  to Unesco's budget or not, it is certainthat all those  who are interested in peace and understanding can-  not possibly afford to see Unesco's activities frozen  and its growth and usefulness brought to an end.  My delegationis opposed to the idea of fixinga cei-  ling to Unesco's budget; we shall place no limits to  investment in the cause of peace and goodwill.  When the nations of the world are spending such  vast resources on armaments, how can we deny to  the causes which serve peace and understanding the  comparatively small sums involved ?
(26) The inadequacy of the participation by Member  States and National Commissions inthe programme  of Unesco, towhich the Director-General referred,  is equally alarming, and the delegations assembled  here can certainly undertake to arouse interest in  . and invite support for Unesco in their own countries.  Unesco's work must reachthe masses of the people,  and this cannot be done without the support of Na-  tional Commissions and governments. It may not  be easy for sovereign States to give up their sover-  eignty in order to establish a world organization;  it should not be impossible to transcend our narrow  nationalisms and to share whole-heartedly in inter-  national efforts for the common welfare of mankind.  We should do well to remember a pertinent sent-  ence from a message onhumanrights sent to Unesco ‘tion of tensions within and between nations.  PLENARY MEETINGS  by one whose love embraced the entire human race -  Mahatma Gandhi. He said: "The very right to live  accrues to, us only when we do the duty of citizen-  ship of the world." This duty of citizenship of the  world is perhaps as inherent in the nature of man  as is his narrow parochialism, and we, in the na-  tional delegations here, can surely undertake to do  all we can in this great effort for bringing out all  that is larger and nobler in human nature. The  best way is to co-operate in concrete tasks for ad-  vancing knowledge, material resources and hap-  piness - the common welfare of all mankind.
(27) Many Unesco projects for common welfare  are often undertaken in various countries by the  peoples and governments themselves, without any  burden on Unesco's meagre resources. For ins-  tance, in my country we launched on the last birth-  day of Mahatma Gandhi a great crusade for village  uplift - the rural community development plan for  what is, in effect, fundamental education. This  scheme covers 55 project areas, scattered all over  India, including 18, 500 villages with a total popula-  tion of 16, 000, 000 people. The work, which is to  go on for three years, will cost $80, 000, 000; 90  per cent of this will be met by the Indian Govern-  ment and 10 per cent by a generous offer of tech-  nical aid through a contribution in the form of  equipment and material from our friends in the  United States of America. The heart and spirit of  this project is not money, not even material and  supplies; it is the labour and faith of millions of  simple villagers who have joined enthusiastically  in this crusade to improve their own living condi-  tions. These simple folk are resolved to do the job  themselves, but they will welcome anybody from  anywhere who is ready to jointheir campaign in the  spirit in which it has been undertaken.
(28) We are already witnessing, indeed, the prom-  ise of such comradeship. I have just referred to  the help we are receiving from the United States of  America, and the other day the distinguished leader  of the Norwegian delegation referred to the gener-  ous contribution made by Norway in the field of  technical assistance in India. Here are instances of  of international co-operation,in the spirit of Unesca  in carrying out enterprises which are Unesco's  enterprises. Could we not associate all these acti-  vities with Unesco, and bring such national cam-  paigns within the fold of Unesco? That would in-  crease the effectiveness of our Organization and  strengthen internationalism in a way which could  not possibly be attempted strictly within its official  programme.
(29) In this connexion, we should like to mention  an item which may be of interest: arising partly  from the Unesco East-West symposium at New  Delhi and partly from a resolution adopted by the  first session of the Indian National Commission, an  international seminar will be held in January 1953.  The subject for discussion will be: "The contribu-  tion of Gandhian outlook and techniques to the solu  It is  -114 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  hoped that recognized leaders of thought inthe East  and the West will participate in the discussion.
(30) Mr. Torres Bodet referred to the discourage-  ment which the Organizationis meeting in present-  day conditions. No projects or resolutions adopted  by this Conference can do very much towards over-  coming this great obstacle, but we can do some-  thing in impressing its importance on our govern-  ments, National Commissions and co-operating  bodies, and in this way build up strong public  opinion in favour of Unesco. Above all, Unesco  must be kept out of politics and governmental con-  trols. Its integrity and intellectual freedom must  be ensured. Only in this way can we mobilize in  Unesco's support the forces of science, art, letters  and scholarship, philosophy and the humanities,  and all those men of peace and goodwill who love  freedom and justice and truth, wherever they live  and irrespective of the nation they come from.
(31) We are living in critical times. The world  stands onthe edge of a precipice, and no one knows  whether it will flingitself over in inglorious suicide  or retrace its steps and live yet, and, what is more,  build up for itself a life fuller, happier and more  glorious than was ever possible before.
(32) All of us are conscious of the immediate cau-  ses of this crisis, the immediate causes of the  great ideological conflict, the fears and apprehen-  sions that have led to the building up of vast arma-  ments and the mobilization of great armies in pre-  paration for an armed conflict that can end only in  the total destruction of the world as we know it  now. But are we equally conscious of some of the  conditions existing in many parts of the world to-  day which are responsible for widespread distress  and dissatisfaction, of the bitterness and resent-  ment whichare bedevilling racial and international  relations and which constitute ultimately the great-  est threat to peace? I refer, of course, to the  great disparities that exist in standards of living  in different parts of the world. I refer to the racial  and religious intolerances and prejudices that poi-  son the relations between great communities. I  refer tothe conditions of social injustice which still  allow the exploitation of man by man and of nation  by nation. Solongas these great sores in our world-  body exist, there canbe noreal health. And so long  as these conditions continue, there will always be  prospect of conflict and war.
(33) History has recorded many so-called holy wars  which were anthing but holy, and during the course  of which great injustices and cruelties were perpe-  trated. But when the history of this little world of  ours is finally written, there shall be recorded on  its pages one truly holy war - the war against ignor-  ance and superstition, against intolerances andpre-  judice, against exploitation, against social injus-  tice. That indeed is the war for the freedom of man.  That war has to be won if man is to attain his full  stature of dignity and nobility. That war has to be  won to enable the human spirit to flower as God  meant it toflower. That is the war inwhich Unesco  I[-8  is nowengaged and in whichall men of goodwill and  understanding in all parts of the world must wish  Unesco "godspeed and victory" and, what is more,  in which they must join to ensure that victory.
(34) Do not let us deceive ourselves, however, by  high-sounding phrases and noble words. If we of  Unesco are to make ourselves fit tobethe soldiers in  this great campaign, we must look into our souls.  All of us - the Member States, the men and women  who compose the teams of technical workers en-  gaged in Unesco work, the men and women who are  concerned with the administration of Unesco - must  purge ourselves of everythingthat is unworthy: our  ignorance, our prejudices, our intolerance and our  selfishness.
(35) I am reminded of a story told of one of our  great sages. An old woman came to him complain-  ing about her son. She said: ''He eats large quan-  tities of candy and I cannot do anything to stop him.  Please, help me." The sage said to her: "My  good woman, come back to me in a month's time, "  When, a month later, she returned to the sage with  her request, the sage said to her: "All right, I  will help you now." She said she was greatly rel-  ieved but she was puzzled as to why the same help  had not been forthcoming earlier; and the answer  to her question was given by the sage: "Because  a month ago I myself was eating candy." We, of  Unesco, will have to give up eating candy before  we can tell others to give it up!
(36) Beforel conclude, may I utter a word of 'warn-  ing? Many of us will recall the state of mind that  we were in just before the last world war broke  out. We had somewhat complacently fallen into the  belief that war was too dreadful to happen and that  therefore it would never come. Well, it did come.  It left in its wake such destruction and suffering as  the world had never seen before. Today, many of  us have fallen into a similar state of complacency.  "The prospect of total destruction", it is said, "is  so terrifying that war cannot possibly come. ' Let  us shed thiscomplacency. Let us realize that, only  six years or so after the conclusion of a war from  whose dire consequences many great nations are  still suffering, there are, in several parts of the  world, forces of reaction once again rearing their  ugly heads. We are witnessing all over again fan-  tastic claims of racial superiority, dreams of dom-  ination and of conquest, exploitation both economic  and political - the very same things that led to the  last world war. One is apt to take it easy and say:  "Well, what can Unesco, or anyone else for that  matter, do about it? Time alone will provide the  cure.' Maybe it is unrealistic to hope that such  forces can be curbed by the slow processes of edu-  cation, science and culture. Nevertheless, that  must be our faith and that must be our aim. Let  the cynics smile and the unbelievers sneer. We  must not allow ourselves to be deterred from our  task. However difficult and arduous the path, how-  ever long it takes to get to the end of the journey,  our work must go on. This truly holy war must be  - 115 -   II-8 PLENARY MEETINGS  waged until the forces of ignorance and prejudice,  of selfishness and intolerance, are helped to en-  lightenment, and become themselves the protago-  nists of justice, humanity, universal brotherhood  and peace.
(37) The PRESIDENT - Ithank the delegate of  India and call upon the leader of the delegation of  the Dominican Republic.
(38) Mr. Pedro TRONCOSO SANCHEZ (Dominican  Republic) - (Translation from the Spanish) Mr.  President, ladies and gentlemen, the report on  Unesco's activities from April 1951 to July 1952  submitted to this, the Seventh Session of the Gene-  ral Conference, by the Director-General, Mr.  Jaime Torres Bodet, is new evidence of the in-  telligence, courage, optimism, keenness and ten-  acity with which he has steered the Organization  steadily on its course; fresh evidence that when  the full force of a powerful mind is brought to the  pursuit of an ideal discouraging setbacks cannot  prevail against it; that in Mr. Torres Bodet the  Third Session of the General Conference chose the  right man for the task. A comparison of this with  earlier reports also reveals clearly the progress  of the Organization and the growing effectiveness  of its work - the much already done in numerous  spheres and the quantity, the diversity and impor-  tance of the successes achieved. Nevertheless, if  we measure all thathas been done against the basic  programme adopted at Florence and against the  Director-General's unbounded aspirations, we are  left with the impression that little has so far been  achieved, although everything has been done which  it was possible to do; we are left with the impres-  sion that Unesco's work has barely been begun and  will call for continued effort through many decades.
(39) A glance in turn at the scope and complexity  of the basic programme, the achievements up to  date, current budgetary resources and the finan-  cial prospects for the future is enough to suggest  that hard facts will dictate as a future task the  establishment for each two-year period of anorder  of priority of execution for the items of the basic  programme, in the light of the needs most urgent  at the time - concentration of the bulk of available  resources on the most pressing problems, leaving  any balance, large or small, for other items, of  equal value for the elevation of mankind but less  immediate than the first, which may be left to other  international and national institutions or to private  enterprise.
(40) Unesco's basic programme is an epitome of  the hopes and possibilities in education, science  and culture achievable at the international level in  the course of time. It cannot be treated as a short-  term working programme, all of whose items are  tackled intensively and concurrently. That we are  learning from experience.
(41) In the unending crises of the world of today, a  world in which the ignorance and poverty of the  masses are eagerly seized on by certain interests  and converted into destructive forces, the first ne-  cessity is to reach down to the bottom-most levels  of society to bring men the light of education. To  this primary object must be dedicated all the res-  ources available, even those which, in less peri-  lous times, might reasonably be diverted, in the  international sphere, to higher education and scien-  tific research, to the protection of writers, artists  and scientists, to the preservation of mankind's  cultural heritage or tothe dissemination of science  and culture.
(42) That is how my Government views the situa-  tion and, for that reason, it is affording Unesco all  possible co-operation in fundamental education and  the spread of knowledge. An earnest of this is our  offer to act as hosts to the Regional Seminar on  Adult Education for the Latin American countries,  to be held in April 1953. While the main theme of  the seminar will be the fight against illiteracy, it  will also study certain special problems in work-  ers' education.
(43) With the forthcoming seminar in mind, and  drawing on earlier experience, the Dominican Re-  public is today intensifying the fight against illi-  teracy planned years ago and since conducted with  good results under President Trujillo.
(44) Another point of essential importance is edu-  cation for peaceful living in a world community.  Unesco can never do too much to implant in men  from their earliest schooldays aninternational out-  look, the awareness of belonging to a world com-  munity in which their own countries are units and  to which they are bound by absolute duties. It is  Unesco's task, above all, to try to instil into the  coming generations the international spirit, so rare  today, which will forge strong spiritual bonds bet-  ween the peoples andreconcile local patriotisms to  itself. It is for Unesco, too, to continue, with all  possible vigour, toforward teaching about the United  Nations and Human Rights, to engage the indivi-  dual's deepest loyalty for the organs of interna-  tional life and give him a strong sense of solidarity  with, and respect for, his fellows, whatever their  race or their religion.
(45) However, what I have just said does not mean  that my Government in any way undervalues Unesco's  ideals for science and culture; only the imperious  force of circumstances causes it to place those  ideals, in an order of priority which is inevitable,  after the ideal of education. On the cultural side it  gives me great satisfaction to recall that the hold-  ing of this Seventh Session of the General Confer-  ence coincides with the publication of one of the  masterpieces of Dominican literature, translated  into French by Marcelle Auclair, and published,  under an agreement concluded by my Government  with Unesco, as the first volume in the Spanish-  American series. The book is the historical novel  "Enriquille", by Manuel de Jesus Galvan, and its  subject is the legend of the first American hero.  This book, so far known only, despite its great  - 116 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  literary and historical value, within a limited zone  ofthe Spanish-speaking world, is now offered, under  Unesco's scheme for the dissemination of culture,  to the judgment of the French-speaking public, as  it will later be to the English.
(46) In concluding this brief and general outline of  my delegation's views, before this Conference held  amid the beauties of hospitable Paris, I am glad to  reiterate the unshakable fidelity of the Dominican  Republic to the lofty aims pursued by our Organiza-  tion and to offer my sincerest good wishes for the  success of the work of this distinguished assembly.
(47) The. PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of the  Dominican Republic and call upon Mr. Eliezer  Rieger of Israel.
(48) Mr. Eliezer RIEGER (Israel) - Mr. President,  fellow delegates, it is with a sense of genuine plea-  sure that I join, onbehalf of the delegation of Israel,  all those of my fellow delegates whohave from this  place expressed their full confidence in the Director-  General of our Organization and paid their respects  to the President of the General Conference. Dr.  Radhakrishnan is known all over the intellectual  world as a man whose roots and subconsciousness  reach deep into the fertile soil of the East and whose  mind, and I believe heart, embrace the human race  in its entirety. We of the Israeli delegation are  proud indeed that the man of the East who has won  the admiration of East and West alike, has been  unanimously chosen President of this Conference.
(49) Unesco, being an adventure of unparalleled  magnitude, requires all the ingenuity and devotion  of a gifted leader. That is why we are so fortunate  in having at the head of our Organization a man of  the calibre of Mr. Torres Bodet. His penetrating  and well-balanced report to this session and the  address to which we listened the other day still  strengthen in our hearts the feeling that Unesco was  privileged to have found in him the right man in the  right place.
(50) In Israel Unesco's popularity is steadily grow-  ing. The technical assistance rendered has been  most welcome. The regional science office in Istan-  bul has inthe past year provedas effective as before  in establishing valuable contacts between Israel and  other countries of the Middle East. Unesco's co-  operation in the organization of the international  symposium on desert research, which took place  last May in Jerusalem, was also much appreciated.
(51) Of recent years we in Israel have had our  hands full in implementing a project which, though  not an official part of Unesco's programme is, so  to speak, a Unesco project. For the last four-and-  a-half years we have been engaged inthe stupendous  task of gathering exiles from Asia, Africa and Eur-  ope, and in their rehabilitation after they had been  living in frustration, oppression and degradation.  Five years ago there were in all 650,000 Jews in  Palestine, and we had to absorb and take care of  over 700, 000 mostly destitute newcomers. Though
11-8  our material resqurces did not suffice to provide  them with adequate food and shelter, we made stre-  nuous efforts to impart to hundreds of thousands of  them the rudiments of literacy and hygiene, to train  them in productive work, especially agricultural  work, and to make them happy and feel at home,
(52) In spite of this main preoccupation with our  own problems, we are eager todischarge faithfully  and actively our duties towards Unesco. A vigor-  ous National Commission has recently been set up.  It does not only represent the Government; three-  fourths of its membership is composed of non-  governmental educational, cultural, scientific and  social organizations. We are anxious to establish  Unesco in Israel as a popular movement, deriving  its momentum not merely from above through gov-  ernmental channels; we are anxious to make Unesco  known to the public at large, so that its initiative  and activity emanate from below as well as from  above.
(53) I am in general agreement with all those dis-  tinguished delegates who have counselled thorough-  going concentration of Unesco's programme. In  view of the numerous and overwhelming tasks facing  Unesco, and its necessarily limited resources, a  distinction between more vital and less vital func-  tions is inescapable, and the setting up of a hier-  archy of priorities seems imperative. This cer-  tainly calls for hard thinking and courageous acting  upon it. The Director-General stated in his address  a most unpleasant truth: that Unesco had, in 1952,  only $1 a year to spend for every 2, 500 illiterates.  Moreover, if we were strictly to concentrate all our  budget on fundamental education only, we could,  according to his figures, spend only $20 a year for
2, 500 illiterates. This shows us the extremely  difficult position of Unesco: with its present re-  sources and present methods it is able to do only  a fraction of what is needed and what should be done.  In the long run Unesco canill-afford to be a Noah's  Ark in which a tiny portion of mankind can be held  while the common people are left to sink in the  flood. Should we not recast our thinking about the  programme and remould our methods? Should we  not think of Unesco more in terms of a movement  and not merely in terms of a mechanism?
(54) In his speech our Director-General deplored  the fact that all the Member States did not play an  effective part ‘in the work of Unesco. His conten-  tion was that, if the people on the spot were to co-  operate, Unesco - with its Secretariat hardly big-  ger than it is now - would achieve many times the  present results, thanks to the fascination inherent  in international cultural solidarity as embodied in  the National Commissions. This statement is both  impressive and provocative. Unesco cannot afford  tohave an efficient but a congealed and bureaucratic  organization. Why cannot we create a Unesco popu-  lar movement with the aid of modern methods of  education, psychology and mass communication?  Some totalitarian governments were very success-  ful in taking advantage of these methods for the  = 117 -
11-8  dissemination of their ideas. It is Unesco's most  urgent business to activate the National Commis-  sions and appeal to the general public. In particu-  lar, Unesco should mobilize those whom some  sociologists call "marginal people': those who,  because of their youth, occupation or individual  propensities, do not represent vested interests, but  who, in the words of Chaim Weizmann, the first  President of Israel, (who passed away this week)  "are permeated with divine discontent'' and rest-  lessness, with perpetual hunger andthe passion for  pioneering. Young people, workers, men of letters,  science and art, belong to this category of "marginal  people. Though they do not control the present,  they constitute a most potent factor in shaping the  day of tomorrow. They do not look at what is just  in front of them, but see through and beyond the  facts of existing realities. It is most essential for  Unesco towin and enlist the support of such people,  and to utilize their fervour and devotion. A Unesco  "organization can onlyscratch the surface of its  Herculean task. A Unesco movement‘ might pene-  trate into its core and cope with it.
(55) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Israel and call upon Mr. Chaverri, the delegate of  Costa Rica.
(56) Mr. Virgilio CHAVERRI (Costa Rica) - (Trans-  lation from the Spanish) Mr. President, ladies and  gentlemen, in this great assembly, the delegation  of Costa Rica associates itself with the views of pre-  vious speakers, who have admirably expressed all  that our 65 countries owe to Unesco. And in so  doing we shall not fail to pay tribute to him whose  name is so closelylinked with this great work, Mr.  Torres Bodet, our Director-General. ù
(57) My owncountryhas wonderful things for which  to thank Unesco. As a small and economically  under-developed country, we are: unreservedly  grateful for the aid Unesco is giving us, and it is  our duty to respond in such a manner that all the  projects launched and under way may fulfil the  expectations which Unesco and our citizens alike  have of them. Thus all of us are working in an  atmosphere of the utmost cordiality.
(58) With regard to the aid given us, we foresaw  in advance that the arrival of foreign experts in a  country with a passionate belief in education would  in itself evoke both surprise and curiosity and, as  we wanted them tofind a favourable atmosphere for  the pursuit of their noble work and the development  of their plans, we were at pains to ensure that the  educators of our own Ministry and the people of the  Republic would be ready to give a friendly welcome  to the strangers who were coming to devote them-  selves so generously tothe service of our children,  our young folk and our adults. This meant much  preparing of the ground by means of seminars for  teachers and parents to explain in detail what  Unesco meant. It was done; the seminars were  organized and comprehensive questionnaires were  PLENARY MEETINGS  sent out, so easy to understand that, even in rural  areas, all could fill them in and grasp the lofty sig-  nificance of the missions which were coming to the  country. The. results were admirable.
(59) We felt our preparations were complete and  the experts duly came. But in what sectors of edu-  cation were they needed? They were coming to a  country which had had free compulsory primary  educationfor more than a century, which was firm-  ly persuaded of the significance of education in all  the business of government and where every Min-  istry - Economics, Agriculture, Public Works,  Health and all the rest - knows and has always  known that government is education. With so lofty  a sense of the meaning of government, all these  people were closely observant of the attitude of the  foreign experts. The newcomers quickly showed  themselves worthy of our effortsto prepare the way  for them by the modestyand calmness of their atti-  tude and their generous self-dedication to the ser-  vice of a country not their own. All, or almost all,  were themselves of South American origin, speak-  ing our language, with problems like ours in their  own countries. With long years of training behind  them, each had contrived to fit into a team of other  teachers, Americans like himself, able to share  and exchange their thoughts and united in spirit by  their vocation as Americanteachers to serve Ame-  rican youth.
(60) Thus the work got off to a good start, as we  gladly testify to Unesco and its Board and to all the  people who ‘visit Costa Rica for information about  the work of the Unesco experts, in order to estimate  its quality and how well it is adapted tothe country's  needs. Every visitor to our country and everyone  here in Paris reached by echoes from that distant  mission in the heart of America will be glad, for  five first-class experts, working with selfless con-  centration and earnestness, are proving an honour  to and an advertisement for this model world insti-  tution.
(61) What did we do to make it easier for our  foreign expertsto grasp CostaRica's needs? We put  them in the way of carrying out their own investiga-  tions; we gave them guidance intheir new :surround-  ings; and then we watched them, accompanied by  native experts who necessarily knew the country  better, cross plain and mountain, from sea to sea  and from frontier to frontier, for six months on end,  observing and assessing the peasant population  among whom they were to serve.
(62) Now the long toil oftheir detailed reconnaiss-  ance is over and they have already returned and  taken up their work in the sector in which each  specializes. Three of them are dealing with pri-  mary education, with particular reference to coun-  try schools, since 75 per cent of our population are  peasants. Another distinguished expert, the Head  of the Mission, is dealing with secondary education;  and technical and vocational education are in the  hands of an eminent Swiss educationist, Mr.  Maechler. That is the position at the opening of  - 118 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  the second year of work. We have no doubt that for  our distinguished experts, properly advised and  working with the Ministry and the Higher Council  of Education, it will be a year of fruitful labour, in  which all of them will be able, by the end of the  task, not onlyto consolidate what they have already  won - the sympathy and affection ofthe nation - but  also to enjoy the visible results of their efforts.
(63) In conclusion, Mr. President and colleagues,  I again offer you the greetings of Costa Rica, that  little country unknown to many here in which, as  the saying goes, "there are more teachers than  soldiers'. It really is a country without an army  and with the necessary minimum of police. Its
800, 000 peasants are passionately devoted to their  land but eager for education because they know that,  by usirg education to improve their minds and in-  crease the level of culture, health, clothing, hous-  ing and the land itself will be improved and such  natural resources as we possess will be exploited  to best advantage - a self-centred attitude, perhaps,  but dictated bythe urge to remain a country where,  instead of inflation, the quantity of the currency is  being reduced and its value raised, where the silos  are full of produce for export; and which, as a  coffee-growing land, growing ''the best coffee in  America", as my countrymen claim, is favoured  by the high prices now prevailing. Yet our people  do not live by exports alone but by something higher  as well - by education, that vast urge to know one-  self and serve others generously, that our country
11-9  may continue to be the refuge of all the political  exiles of the world, a home for humanity dear to  the hearts of all the world.
(64) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Costa Rica. That completes the list of speakers  for this afternoon.
(65) Beforewe separate I wishto remind this aud-  ience of the fact that the Constitution of Unescowas  signed seven years ago in London, on 16 November
1945. We have completed seven years. Though we  may not be elated with the success of our work,  there is no need for discouragement. Our work is  undoubtedly of a fundamental character.
(66) Yesterday, the leader of the German delega-  tion said that Kant, in his work on Perpetual Peace  made the statement: "Peace is not the natural con-  dition of man, it has to be won". Rousseau said:  "Man is born free, but everywhere he is in chains".  We need not now discuss the implications of these  two statements. Whatever may be, we can win the  peace only if we remove the chains which shackle  mankind - the material chains of poverty and ig-  norance and the spiritual chains of selfishness,  individual and collective. Let us remind ourselves  today of a great principle: we are one family, and  in any case of conflict between human interests and  national, provincial or group interests, we must  pledge ourselves to prefer the human.  The meeting rose at 4.50 p. m.  NINTH PLENARY MEETING  Monday, 17 November 1952, at 10.45 a.m.  President: Dr. SARVEPALLI RADHAKRISHNAN (India)  CONTENTS  Adoption of the Report of the Procedure Committee . . 119  Discussion of the Director-General's Report (continu-  ation): Speeches by the delegates of Korea, Liberia,  United States of America, Laos, Austria, Thailand,  and Syria  ADOPTION OF THE REPORT OF THE PROCEDURE  COMMITTEE.
(1) The PRESIDENT - The Chairman of the Proce-  dure Committée will now submit his report.  (Translation (2) Mr. T. HAGUIWARA (Japan) -
120  from the French) Mr. President, ladies and gentle-  men, the Procedure Committee met on 14 November  to consider the amendments proposed by the Execu-  tive Board to Rules 31, 32 and 33 of the Rules of  Procedure. The Committee adopted the proposal of  the Board in its main outline, viz. that the Proce-  dure Committee should be converted into a Legal  ="119/-