PLENARY MEETINGS II-16  SIXTEENTH PLENARY MEETING  Saturday, 22 November 1952, at 10.30 a.m.  President: Mr. FRANCESCO MAMELI (Italy)  later: Mr. S.M. SHARIF (Pakistan)  CONTENTS  Designation of the Acting President of the Confer-  ence. . . SES ot Shy Ba 5 D PISTES 205  Statement by the delegate of France. sa oo al on 205  Statement by the Director-General . . . . . . . . . 206  DESIGNATION OF THE ACTING PRESIDENT OF THE  CONFERENCE
(1) The PRESIDENT - (Translation from the  French) The meeting is called to order. Gentle-  men, I regret to have to announce that the Indian  Ambassador this morning informed the General  Committee that our President, Dr. Sarvepalli  Radhakrishnan, has been recalled to his country.  He had hoped to be able to stay until the end of the  Conference, and he still hopes that it may be pos-  sible for him to join you again later but, in the  meantime, he has had to go, and he will be away  for several days.
(2) The General Committee came to the conclusion  that the method of calling upon each Vice-President  in turn to preside over the Conference could not be  adopted in the circumstances and that one Vice-  President should be chosen to take responsibility  for the Conference and to represent it throughout  the session. The General Committee unanimously  decided to designate the delegate of Pakistan, Mr.  Sharif. Therefore, on behalf of the General Com-  mittee, I propose to you the name of Mr. Sharif.
(3) Thank you, gentlemen. I now call upon Mr.  Sharif to take the Chair.  Mr. S.M, Sharif (Pakistan) took the Chair.
(4) The PRESIDENT - Fellow delegates, I wish to  express my deep gratitude for the honour you have  conferred on me and my country. This Chair has  been occupied by very distinguished, very illus-  trious men, and there is no one more conscious  than myself of my limitations and shortcomings.  I hope, however, that, with your indulgence and  with your kindness, I shall be able to discharge  my duties satisfactorily.
(5) The General Committee met this morning, as  usual, to consider its procedure, and it decided  that the Director-General should be requested to  Speak soon after the meeting was called to order.  Certain delegations have expressed the wish to  make short statements. They will be allowed to  make these statements after the Director-General  has addressed the Conference. The Programme  Commission and the Administrative Commission  are to meet today to continue their deliberations.  In view of the importance of the work in the Com-  missions, I have been asked by the General Com-  mittee to express the hope that only a few dele-  gates will ask to speak, and that they will be brief  in their comments. I should like to know whether  this proposal of the General Committee has the  general approval of this Conference. I call upon  the delegate of France.  STATEMENT BY THE DELEGATE OF FRANCE
(6) Mr. René CASSIN (France) - (Translation  from the French) Mr. President, I fear that I  must, on behalf of the French delegation, oppose  the General Committee's proposal that the Direc-  tor-General be asked to speak before delegations  have had an opportunity to express their view and  make their position quite clear.
(7) The verbatim record issued today does not  entirely faithfully reflect the debate that took place  yesterday. My country maintained yesterday that  the budget total should be $19,000,000; subse-  quently, as other delegations had proposed a lower  figure, a meeting of certain delegations took  place. A vote was first of all taken on the pro-  posal of one delegation that the budget ceiling be  fixed at $17,000, 000, and that was followed by  a compromise proposal put forward by a number  of delegations. It should be clearly realized that  on no occasion did the French delegation, which  had proposed $19,000,000, suggest any reduc-  tion of that figure and, had the proposal for  $18,000,000 been rejected, my country wishes  - 205 -   II-16  to state that it would have voted for $19, 000, 000.
(8) As one who has attended earlier sessions of  this Conference, I would draw your attention, my  dear colleagues, to the fact that the budget which  you approved yesterday is the same as that voted  in Florence in 1950. That budget is inadequate  today, for, since then, you have opened the doors  of Unesco to many countries, and efforts have been  made to extend its work to new continents. It is  somewhat incongruous to vote for a smaller bud-  get at a time when Unesco is assuming many new  responsibilities. At such an important moment  in Unesco's life, we should consider the vote taken  yesterday as the approval of an initial, tentative  budget total. When we come to discuss the various  items within that budget, and see that we cannot  meet our obligations towards Member States, as  defined in the programme, without exceeding the  budget approved, it should be possible for the lat-  ter to be increased; at that time, therefore, the  French delegation will propose - and its motion  will not lack support from other delegations - the  adoption of a supplementary budget, to be voted  before the close of the session, which will enable  the Organization to remain worthy of the confi-  dence that the nations have placed in it.
(9) Mr.  record of yesterday's debate be corrected, in  order that my country's position maybe made per-  fectly clear; and now it is up to all of us to shoul-  der our own responsibilities.
(10) The PRESIDENT - I must dispose of this  point of order. There were originally five pro-  posals before the Conference: the proposal of the  Director-General and the Executive Board; the  proposal of France; the proposal of Japan; the  proposal of the United Kingdom; and the proposal  of Belgium. Japan agreed to merge its proposal  with that of France. When the meeting was sus-  pended, certain delegations held informal consul-  tations and, on their return, the French delegate  read a statement signed by several delegations sug-  gesting as a compromise a ceilingof $18, 000, 000.  The original proposal of France for a ceiling of  $19,000,000 had already been withdrawn. I am  sure the Conference will agree that, since France  identified itself with that statement, its original  proposal for $19,000,000 had been withdrawn.  The Conference then proceeded to vote on the pro-  posals before it and took its decision. If France  now wishes to move a substantive motion, it has  the right to do so but it should send in a formal  requisition conforming to the Rules of Procedure.  I now request the Director-General to address the  Conference.  STATEMENT BY THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL
(11) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL - (Translation  from the French) I am deeply moved, gentlemen,  President, I request that the verbatim -  PLENARY MEETINGS  by your generous applause. I am also profoundly  grateful to the French delegation and to my friend,  Mr. Cassin, for this gesture of his; I fear, how-  ever, that his proposal is incompatible with the  normal rules of procedure.
(12) Mr. President, gentlemen, since my intro-  ductory statement yesterday morning, I have ab-  stained from taking part in your debates. After  your vote on the budget total, I refrained from let-  ting you know at once what I thought of that deci-  sion. I wished to give myself time to weigh the  consequences of your decision. Having done so,  I consider it to be a very grave one, for, while  recognizing that Unesco has made progress, you  have nevertheless adopted, for the first time, a  real spending budget lower than that of the prev-  ious year.
(13) As I told you, three possibilities were open  to you, namely, retreat, stabilization or develop-  ment. The Executive Board and I had chosen de-  velopment, a modest but normal development of  our activities; "you have chosen retreat. The  figures are there: stabilization, pure and simple,  called for a real budget, that is, a spending bud-  get of $17, 824,000. You have adopted a real bud-  get of $16, 866, 000, whicherepresents a reduction  of almost $1,000, 000 for the two financial years.  After long and laborious efforts, Unesco is now in  practice reduced to the same financial situation in  which it found itself at Florence, two-and-a-half  years ago.
(14) You will understand, gentlemen, that I feel  personally attacked by such a measure, which in-  evitably implies disapproval, either of the Orga-  nization itself, or of those who serve it, and of  myself in particular.
(15) You will tell me, as I have already been told,  that the Conference is merely applying to Unesco  a general policy of economy. But how am I to be-  lieve that, when I see that the budgets of other in-  ternational organizations, both within the United  Nations family and outside it, have been increased  this very year? Some of the States which have  agreed to that increase are also members of  Unesco. Above all, how am I to believe it, in view  of the contrast between the meagre sums requested  for Unesco's development, and the vast amounts,  mentioned every day in the newspapers, that are  expended for military purposes?
(16) Let us look closely at the increase which was  proposed by the Executive Board and myself, and  which appeared to you so ambitious that it was not  even put to the vote. I will quote six typical ex-  amples, those of three countries among the highest  contributors, and those of three countries among  the lowest contributors. Here are the figures: the  proposed increase represented, in the case of the  United States of America, an additional cost, per  annum and per caput, of one-third of ‘a cent; in  the United Kingdom, one-fifth of a penny; in  France, 68 centimes. With regard to Honduras,  Liberia and Nicaragua - and here I would like to  - 206 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  tell the delegate of Liberia how much I was moved  by his gallant, noble and courageous speech yes-  terday - which are among those countries paying  the smallest contributions, the sacrifice asked of  them was respectively, per annum and per caput,  one-twelfth of a centavo, one-thirtieth of a cent,  and two-fifths of a centavo. That, gentlemen, was  the magnitude of the sacrifice which you were  called upon to make.
(17) Was I to believe this would be too heavy a  burden for the taxpayer? Furthermore, and this  to my mind is a far more serious matter, is there  any reason to think that the taxpayer will hence-  forth feel more inclined to believe in Unesco, when  he hears that an assembly of government delegates  has refused the Organization additional funds  which would have cost each of the inhabitants of  the majority of Member States, per annum, ap-  proximately the price of a handful of matches?
(18) Far more serious than all these budgetary  questions was the nature of the vote itself. The  motion was adopted by 29 votes to 21, with 5 ab-  stentions. Gentlemen, you have expressed your  opinion by a far larger majority on other issues.  Yet the issue yesterday was the very existence of  Unesco, that same Unesco, fighting for peace,  which you covered with praise but a few days ago.  Two very distinct trends of opinion were evident  during your debate: that of Member States ferven-  tly desiring to see Unesco develop, and that of  other Member States which, for reasons which I  deeply respect, but nevertheless deplore, hold the  opposite view. I assure you most categorically  that, had the majority voted in favour of the budget  estimates presented by the Executive Board and  the Director-General by 29 votes to 21, my con-  clusion would have been exactly the same. I'do not  believe that any man can direct the execution of  Unesco's programme without feeling that he has  the support of the great majority of its Member  States. Any division among them on this essential  point diminishes Unesco's prestige and that of the  men who are called upon to act in its name.
(19) It is certain that, in the present situation,  great sacrifices must be made for the sake of col-  lective security, but is the cause of economic and  social progress any less urgent? It is a tragic  sign that the second cause should be sacrificed to  the first, and that the word "reduce" is used chief-  ly when it is a question of organizing international  co-operation, to educate the peoples of the world  and enable them to share in the blessings of sci-  ence and culture.
(20) In accordance with the system of mutual as-  sistance laid down in the San Francisco Charter,  collective security and economic and social de-  velopment, or what might be called peace among  States and peace among their peoples, should  march hand in hand. In relation to this essentially  twofold action, the material setback which you  have imposed upon Unesco has an alarming moral  significance which there is no concealing. In view  II-16  of this, and of the division in your ranks - a divi-  sion which may have its repercussions on the very  conception of Unesco - it is impossible for me,  gentlemen, to continue to serve the Organization.  I therefore request you to restore me my freedom,  by accepting my resignation and releasing me  from the duties to which you did me the honour of  calling me in December 1948. I should be grate-  ful, Mr. President, if the Conference would add a  further item to its agenda - the appointment of my  successor.
(21) I make this request to you with the greatest  deference, and I must add that my decision is ir-  revocable. In Florence, when I first expressed  my desire to return to private life, you gave me  renewed proof of your confidence. I then withdrew  my resignation, but not without making it clear  that, in my opinion, such confidence should be  placed, not in an individual, not in a man, but in  the Organization. Allow me to repeat here what  I said at that time: "It is legitimate to have dif-  ferent views on how Unesco can serve peace and  on the extent of its effectiveness. It is legitimate  to differ as to the value of its programme. What  I find it difficult to understand, however, is that  you should assert that this programme represents  the best contribution Unesco can make towards  peace and that you have full confidence in its suc-  cessful execution, while simultaneously you judge  it to deserve no more than such a reduced budget.  As I say, I find that difficult to understand, for  there is much danger lest we might all see in such  an attitude towards the obligations our Constitution  lays on us an admission of impotence, from which,  I am convinced, Unesco could not recover. In  such circumstances, could any Director-General  fit for his post agree to remain in office? Could  any right-feeling man agree to remain as Director-  General of an institution dedicated by its Constitu-  tion to the noblest task of all, that of achieving  peace through the mind, but which in fact, in the  tragedy through which the world is passing, was  forced to confine itself, even on the technical side,  to a series of mere pilot projects all too inadequate  to meet the crying needs of mankind?
(22) "Gentlemen", Iconcluded in Florence, "I want-  ed you to know that if Unesco were definitely to en-  ter upon that road; I would not be that man, I could  not be". Over two years have passed, Mr. Presi-  dent, since I spoke those words. During that time,  I have cherished the illusion that we were really  working together for a common purpose; your vote  yesterday showed me to what extent I had been de-  ceived. The arguments and words used by several  delegations have, to my sorrow, confirmed that feel-  ing of disillusionment. I shall leave this House, not  without sadness, but without bitterness. I may have  made mistakes, but I have always acted in good faith;  and at least I shall have the satisfaction of knowing  that I was able to present you, at the beginning of  this session, with the picture of a vigorous organ-  ization, in full process of development.  = 207 ~   II-16
(23) Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you very sin-  cerely for the friendly consideration you have so  often shown me. In difficult circumstances it has,  I assure you, been a great encouragement to me.  In conclusion, allow me to express the hope that  our governments and peoples may build a just and  lasting peace, a peace worthy of all sacrifices,  which can be won only by subordinating political  ambitions and material interests to the supreme  ideal proclaimed by Unesco, namely the intellec-  tual and moral solidarity of mankind.
(24) The PRESIDENT - Ladies and gentlemen, you  have all heard with great regret and consternation,  I am sure, the speech of the Director-General of-  fering his resignation. I do not wish to comment  on his speech at this stage. I now call upon the  Chairman of the Executive Board, who has asked  to speak.
(25) Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil), Chairman of the  Executive Board - (Translation from the French)  Mr. President, Mr. Director-General, fellow de-  legates, the Introduction to the Proposed Pro-  gramme and Budget Estimates presented to you  bears two signatures: that of the Director-General  of Unesco and that of the Chairman of the Execu-  tive Board. In the days when we were full of hope  and working successfully together, I was always in  complete agreement with the Director-General;  now, when the loss of your allegiance has led him  to resign, I am still entirely in agreement with  him and will follow his example. I therefore re-  quest my eminent colleague, Sir Ronald Adam,  Vice-Chairman of the Executive Board, to replace  me as Chairman of the Executive Board.
(26) The PRESIDENT - The delegate of Yugoslavia  has asked to speak.
(27) Mr. Vladislav RIBNIKAR (Yugoslavia) - Tran-  slation from the French) Mr. President, I ex-  pressed my disappointment yesterday with all  frankness. I told you that my faith was shaken and  I explained why the Yugoslav delegation had ab-  stained during the vote on the budget, which was  one of the most important questions we had to  settle.
(28) The Yugoslav delegation abstained. I gave  you the reasons for that abstention. I spoke of the  events which have taken place in this room, and I  was thinking particularly of the admission of a new  Member State; but it was not only the fact of  Spain's admission to Unesco which determined our  attitude; it was above all the way in which we  voted on that admission. We have given the world  the impression that Unesco was afraid to hold a  free and candid debate. It was that atmosphere  which displeased me, and I told you so frankly.
(29) Today, after what we have heard, the an-  nouncement of the Director-General's resignation  and the words of Mr. Carneiro, I, too, hand in my  PLENARY MEETINGS  resignation as a member of the Executive Board,  where I have had the honour of representing you,  and I will request you, in electing a new member,  to choose someone other than myself. Thank you,  Mr. President.
(30) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Yugoslavia and I call upon the delegate of Colombia.
(31) Mr. Augusto RAMIREZ MORENO (Colom-  bia) - (Translation from the Spanish) Colombia's  contribution to the discussion will lead up to a pro-  posal which I shall ask the Conference to consider  with the greatest care. I feel that it is incumbent  upon me to explain the reasons for the Colombian  proposal so as to make it clear that there is abso-  lutely no question of interfering with the normal  course of the Conference's work.
(32) Faced with the serious crisis resulting from  the recent resignations, a humble but objective  observer like the delegate of Colombia feels in-  clined to believe that we have perhaps reached our  present position as a result of the anxieties and  uncertainties which are so prevalent today, and  that the underlying reason for our disagreements  may be the lack of what the English call "God's gift  of understanding", the gift of seeing things from the  other fellow's point of view. It was a French wri-  ter, Lecomte du Nouy, if I remember aright, who  spoke of the enormous importance, in human in-  tercourse, of the angle from which we look at  things. A mixture of flour and soot, for instance,  is simply a greyish mass to the naked eye of man,  but to a microbe it is a universe of black and white  rocks.
(33) Having adopted the wrong point of view, we  did not realize how much was really involved in the  discussion of the budget. Is this Organization a  commercial firm, mainly interested in cutting  down expenses and increasing profits? If it were,  it would be all right to look at things from the  economic standpoint. But we should have a hard  struggle, for a commercial business, having noth-  ing to do with philanthropy, is no fit evangelist, no  good apostle.
(34) Viewed more properly, however, this Orga-  nization may be a spiritual partnership of nations,  with a single over-riding aim - to spread educa-  tion throughout the world. Surely we should be  concerned primarily - nay, solely - with spiritual  values. Can Unesco, can its governing bodies,  departing from their proper intellectual rôle and  their proper policy, interpret the intentions and  proposals of governments in budgetary matters? ‘  Would it not be better for the Organization to con-  fine itself to the matters which really concern it?  To promote educational, scientific and cultural  programmes to the best of its ability. The mem-  bers of the Executive Board, who are not the Fin-  ance Ministers or the Commissioners of Supply of  a State, but who have before them full particulars  of illiteracy throughout the world, full particulars  - 208 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  of man's inhumanity to man, have asked for a mo-  dest twenty million dollars so that they can begin  to solve the many very serious problems facing  us. There was no question of asking for fabulous  sums with which to deal with the universal crisis  of the intellect in this, its hour of need. No, in  spite of their tender solicitude for man, for the  backward nations, they put forward a modest plea  for less than it costs to build a warship, or, as  our distinguished colleague, Mr. Parra-Perez,  put it so vividly, much less than the cost of a  single minute's bombing.
(35) What, then, was our reaction to this prudent,  thrifty calculation? Fortunately, we did not say:  "This is the end of Unesco'; we did not take the  view that, as there was so much to do and so little  with which to do it, the best course would be to  run away. No. In that way, it would be impossible  ever to undertake anything. Let us, however, re-  member the original idea of Unesco. When Unesco  was set up, we said: We shall cherish, watch over  and reap the harvest of this work of ours with the  patient and unfailing care of a good farmer. In  the growth of plants, the seed falls to the ground  and the brown earth takes no heed of the mystery  whereby the future in that moment takes shape.  And later on, the nurturing soil and the persistent  rain working together to produce the chemical  transformation of the earth, and bacteriae accom-  plishing their wonderful effects, a little green  shoot boldly pushes up above the brown earth, later  to become a plant and then a tree, until at last the  whole murmurous valley glows with golden fruit.
(36) Unesco's Executive Board has certainly not  said to us: "We want to take on everything at once,  to do everything at once'. No! It offered us a bud-:  get, and the Director-General showed us how mo-  dest were the aims of Unesco's Executive Board  and left the matter to us. How, then, did we react?  We seemed to take up quite a different point of  view and said: "Our commitments with regard to  public health, road-building, education and defence  expenditure are such that we are unable to give  you the trifling handful of matches of which the  Director-General has spoken for the prosecution  of a work which would truly bear witness to our  unanimous devotion to the tasks of peace."
(37) Let us consider the objections advanced.  Firstly, certain countries are not paying their  contributions. If they cannot pay, how can we ask  them for more? I feel that when this argument is  weighed against other considerations, it is of little  importance. When we ask how many countries  have no vote in this assembly because they have  failed to pay their contributions, we find that there  are only two or three. When we enquire how many  countries are in arrears in their payments, we  discover that there are very few and that the sums  involved are very small by comparison with the  Organization's total expenditure. It is, of course,  regrettable that there are countries which do not  pay, leaving great nations, such as the United
11-16  States of America, the United Kingdom and France,  which have long been carrying the burden of pro-  tecting human freedom, to make this effort in their  place and to shoulder the financial responsibilities  properly incumbent on themselves. But can we  allow a crisis of this magnitude to arise just be-  cause there are three nations or three govern-  ments which have defaulted - certainly not from  lack of goodwill - and because eight or ten nations  are in arrears with their contributions? What  examples have been set, through the years, by the  great States which have advanced these arguments ?  Are they not examples of disinterested endeavour,  of a struggle against suffering, of a romantic pur-  suit of democracy and freedom, of faith in life?  The illustrious history of these States, their deeds  of old and their recent valorous struggles are out  of keeping with the inadmissible arguments they  have put forward here. Is it possible that these  same States which are spending millions - and let  it be noted that I obviously do not speak in a spirit  of criticism - on behalf of collective security, to  prevent the human race from reverting to the life  of the cavemen, is it possible that these nations  should abandon our cause for a matter of two or  three million dollars, a trifling sum in compari-  son with the astronomical figures they are devo-  ting to their efforts in other fields?
(38) We must realize clearly that the defaulting  countries, three defaulting countries, or three  countries in arrears, cannot bring the Organiza-  tion to bankruptcy. Others have a right to hope  that the governments of the great nations, to whose  experience and generosity we owe the very exis-  tence of this Organization, will think again before  allowing a crisis to overtake Unesco for a differ-  ence of two million dollars.
(39) I ask you, are all of us here doing our work  in an honest spirit? Obviously we are. I should  like to tell you something of Colombia's work, as  proof of my own good faith. We are the only coun-  try in Latin America which has sent soldiers - a  battalion - ships - a frigate - to Korea; and we  have done so not at the expense of the United States  of America, for the United States of America has  no satellites, only friends and allies. All this has  meant an enormous increase in Colombia's mili-  tary budget, which in other respects is a very  small one. As far as we are concerned, the Uni-  ted States of America are not paying our troops,  nor meeting the cost of their transportation or  their uniforms. But, in spite of this, in spite of  the very considerable drain on our total budget of  $300, 000, 000, we were prepared to increase our  contribution to Unesco. And this gives us a right  to say to others, who are making efforts similar  to our own, no doubt costing them also great sums,  that, in proportion, we also have made enormous  efforts. Our military expenditure has gone up  fourfold because of the war in Korea. But, so far  as our modest resources allow, we are prepared  to offer our contribution and our collaboration for  - 209 -   II-16  the prosecution of Unesco's work. Is it conceiv-  able that budgets ranging from 10,000 million to
80,000 million dollars can be thrown out and ruined  by these countries' contributing by peaceful means,  as theyare already contributing by armaments, to-  wards saving humanity from another irreparable  catastrophe? Is it conceivable that these nations  should prefer to see the ruinof all that has already  been accomplished? That they should prefer us to  continue in a difficult situation and possible to re-  place the Director-General (who says that his re-  signation is irrevocable) and his colleagues on the  Executive Board who seem disposed to follow his  example, by people who might take up their work  too lightly, simply succeeding to their positions  without the ability to emulate these men who, with  such fine dignity, have preferred honour - the  honour of men dedicated to a noble cause - to  office? How could the new men make good use of  a budget which, as it stood, was already inadequate  for the achievement of Unesco's great aims? Do  you think it will be easy to find members of the  Executive Board or a Director-General who, when  they know the reasons for these resignations, will  take any pride inaccepting office or taking up their  responsibilities ?
(40) I am sure that there has been no plot, no in-  trigue with the object of removing anyone from the  Executive Board. I am certain that there has been  no effort to find a pretext for creating a crisis  whose consequences cannot be foreseen and whose  repercussions will be felt even in the United Na-  tions, of which we are an offshoot. I am convinced  that no one has regarded the discussion of the bud-  get as an underhand means of getting rid of offi-  cials whom he personally disliked or found unac-  ceptable in spite of the fact that their competency  could never be challenged. But, if our Director-  General abandons his difficult position, which is  one of world-wide importance, can we go on with  our work? And, so far as Mr. Carneiro, that  brilliant Brazilian, is concerned, who has ten=  dered his resignation with the same careful thought,  the same gravity, the same emotion, can we, with-  out the expert help on which we have always been  able ito rely from this member of the Executive  Board, carry on our endeavours with any confi-  dence of success? I ask you again, are we to al-  low this deficit of two million dollars to bring  Unesco to disaster? In such a crisis, without in-  structions from our governments, can we reach a  decision in one, two, three or four meetings? I  feel that such a demonstration of our inability to -  take a broad view, to rise above mean and petty  questions, would bring despair to all those who  still consider man capable of nobility, generosity,  and altruism. I want the Conference to realize  that these considerations - and, in this, I venture  to think that I speak for many of you - mean that  the General Conference has a new situation to face.  In my view, we should make a still worse mistake  if we continued our discussion as though nothing  PLENARY MEETINGS  had happened. We are on the eve of a critical  time. This is my excuse for addressing myself  once more, although I may seem to be repeating  myself, to the three great nations whose delegates  do not approve the budget. France has been the  guardian of the intellect from the very beginning  of her history; England, with her invincible tena-  city in every war, and more particularly in the  last, is an example of courage to the faint-hearted  everywhere in the world; and the United States of  America, in my opinion, is the greatest Republic  of all time. Nor Greece, nor Rome, nor Spain,  our own motherland, nor France, our guide, can  compare with those avenging angels of the human  race, who disembarked in Normandy to free the  world and who are still working for the redemption  of mankind through the efforts of their statesmen,  their soldiers and their heavily taxed citizens.
(41) Is it too much to hope that their delegates, in  reconsidering our budget, may make a final, sup-  reme effort? They had decided to approve a bud-  get of $17,000,000. They reached a compromise  in a working party, and went up to $18, 000, 000.  They .were speaking, then, in economic terms.  Unesco's Executive Board speaks in terms of  ethics. There can be no common ground between  those who acknowledge the responsibilities and the  duties of Unesco's Executive Board and those  whose actions are influenced solely by the finan-  cial difficulties of their countries. The Colombian  delegation's proposal is therefore inspired by the  obvious gravity of the crisis we have to face, a  crisis giving rise to problems that none of us can  properly discuss without instructions from our  governments. There are two possible ways out of  the crisis: either a fresh decision, still open to  us because we are an independent assembly, or the  election of a new Director-General. The Director-  General has very rightly applied the system of the  vote of confidence, familiar to all parliaments and  and all democratic régimes; I have to congratulate  him on his attitude. But have we answered, once  and for all, that question of confidence? Can we  not solve the crisis by taking a little time for re-  flection, for discussion, for reaching an under-  standing among ourselves? Since when have such  problems been matters of metaphysics? Since  when has it meant shame, dishonour and, as we  seem to believe, intellectual ridicule, to go back  on what we have done? I do not believe that any-  thing is irrevocably lost. In diplomacy, as in  politics, the greatest virtue is patience. Richelieu  said that, "when all is lost, in politics and dip-  lomacy, it is still necessary to negotiate’. And  when I say "negotiate" in this connexion, I use the  word not in its derogatory sense, but in its finest  connotation; I ask, in fact, for a little time, so  that, firstly, we may give thought to the conse-  quences of our vote, and, secondly, and most im-  portant, we may have an opportunity for informal,  friendly contacts between the delegations so as to  see if we can alter our decision; there is no law  - 210 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  of God or man, and certainly no consideration of  possible loss of "face", which should prevent us  from going back on the decision we have adopted.
(42) In conclusion, Mr. President, I venture to  make a formal proposal that the General Confer-  ence meet again on Tuesday to consider the prob-  lem, as delegates have no instructions on how to  deal with the crisis which has arisen as a result  of the Director-General's resignation. I ask that  a vote be taken on this proposal.
(43) The PRESIDENT - I should like to suggest to  the. distinguished leader of the delegation of Col-  ombia that he submit his proposals in accordance  with the Rules of Procedure. I now call upon the  delegate of India.
(44) Mr. H. S. MALIK (India) - Mr. President,  fellow delegates, I dislike, as I believe most of us  do, the language of exaggeration. But I believe  honestly that I am not indulging in any such lang-  uage when I say that we are today facing a great  crisis in the life of this great Organization. Yes-  terday the Head of the United States delegation re-  minded us that we here, assembled in this Gene-  ral Conference, representing our respective States,  are Unesco; it is to this Unesco that my appeal  now is addressed.
(45) Sir, we face a grave situation. We of the  Indian delegation have the greatest admiration for  the work that Mr. Torres Bodet has done as  Director-General of this Organization; we have  followed with admiration his ability, his devotion,  his zeal and his loyalty to the work for which he  was responsible. It is not for personal reasons  that we face this crisis: Mr. Torres Bodet has  resigned on certain matters of principle that were  before you when we discussed the budget proposals  yesterday.
(46) I should like to make it quite clear that we of  the Indian delegation have the fullest sympathy for  the statement that Mr. Torres Bodet made today  in support of his proposals. As I made clear yes-  terday, we believe it is not wise to cut expenditure  that is considered essential to keep the work of  this great Organization expanding, developing.  But I am not going to enter into those issues today.  The object of my remarks at this stage in the de-  bate is to suggest that we do not discuss these  matters while we are all, as I believe we are,  under the stress of very great emotion. Let us  take a little time over this. These are very vital  issues that we have to consider. I move, there-  fore, Mr. President, that this meeting be ad-  journed.
(47) The PRESIDENT - The motion for adjourn-  ment having been moved, in accordance with Rule
75 of the Rules of Procedure, one member may  speak in favour and one member may speak against  the motion. I call upon the delegate of France.  This is on the motion for adjournment.  ‘tion.  II-16
(48) Mr. Paul MONTEL (France) - (Translation  from the French) Mr. President, ladies and gen-  tlemen, in this grave situation, when many de-  legations are filled with consternation, when our  hearts are saddened by these resignations and we  see Unesco, which we had conceived as so great  and noble an edifice, cracked and damaged and in  danger of crumbling away before our eyes, the  French delegation, which, as Mr. Cassin, one of  the founders of this Organization, said just now,  has never altered its opinion or changed its atti-  tude, would like to support the motion of the dele-  gation of India.
(49) Considering that our Conference cannot, in a  plenary meeting like this, find the necessary solu-  tions, those two important bodies, the Executive  Board and the General Committee, must, if this  Organization, with its existing rules and Consti-  tution, is to survive, endeavour to propose some  solutions to us. For that reason, the French de-  legation fully supports the proposal of the Indian  delegation to adjourn the debate, if possible, until  next Monday.
(50) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  France. One delegate may speak against the mo-  Does anyone wish to speak against the mo-  tion? I call upon the delegate of Switzerland.
(51) Mr. PIAGET (Switzerland) - (Translation  from the French) Mr. President, gentlemen,  Unesco has just met with two disasters which ap-  pear, at first sight, to be irreparable, namely the  budget ceiling voted yesterday and the Director-  General's resignation. Yet, gentlemen, no disas-  ter is irreparable. We cannot resign ourselves to  such disasters; no one is defeated until he admits  it. I propose that we refuse to admit this twofold  defeat.
(52) Unesco was created to promote mutual as-  sistance and solidarity among the nations. That is  its real aim, and it has no other. If we, betraying  our faith, contradict that aim, Unesco no longer  has any reason to exist.
(53) There are countries in need of us, namely,  the under-developed countries, and it is of them  that we must now think. They are the countries  which need our help, and they are perhaps the  majority. There are other countries needing  Unesco less, and they are the most responsible;  such countries can usually find funds for their own  culture and cultural propaganda. They must man-  age to find funds for the cause of human solidarity.
(54) This is a dark hour for us all, for Unesco's  very existence is at stake. It is certain that, if  we do not overcome this crisis, many countries  will reconsider their attitude towards Unesco and  I know of some where public opinion will be pro-  foundly disturbed by such events.
(55) Gentlemen, I appeal to your loyalty. The de-  feat of Unesco would be a defeat for the whole  cause of international solidarity. Refuse to accept  -211 -   II-16  it. We cannot accept the resignation of Mr. Torres  Bodet as a man, still less can we accept it as a  symbol; we cannot accept the total moral loss en-  tailed by the ruthless arrest of the experiment for  which he stands and with which: his name is in-  separably connected. To an anguished world, rent  by conflicts, Torres Bodet is a symbol and his re-  signation entails more than the decision of an in-  dividual.
(56) Following the events which we have wit-  nessed, I propose the reopening of the debate. I  move that we refuse the Director-General's re-  signation and those that resulted from it. I pro-  pose that we reopen yesterday's debate on the  budget ceiling and, if that be impossible, I pro-  pose that we examine the whole programme with  complete objectivity; we shall then see whether  the programme exceeds the ceiling and we can re-  consider the matter.
(57) I wished to say these things before the ap-  proval of the motion for adjournment proposed by  the delegate of India. I do not believe that we  should adjourn the debate until certain things have  been said. I believe that the whole Conference  agrees with me, for your applauding of certain of  my remarks has testified to your agreement. I  therefore request the whole Conference to give its  instructions and to take a decision on those points.
(58) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Switzerland. We have a motion for adjournment  before the meeting.
(59) Mr. H. S. MALIK (India) - Mr. President,  I have no desire to transgress the Rules of Pro-  cedure, but in view of the statement just made,  and also of the proposal by the delegate of Switzer-  land, I wish to make it quite clear that the sug-  gestion I made should not be taken as in any way  against the proposal by the delegate of Switzerland,  which has my fullest support. I therefore withdraw  my proposal for an adjournment.
(60) The PRESIDENT - Ladies and gentlemen, a  decision was taken by the Conference in plenary  meeting yesterday. If a review of that decision is  required it has to be arranged according to the  Rules of Procedure. There should be formal no-  tice to that effect, and I shall place the matter be-  fore the General Committee for its consideration.  India had originally proposed adjournment of the  meeting in order to facilitate discussion and re-  examination of this question at a later date - and  France proposed Monday for that purpose. The  delegation of India has now withdrawn the motion  for adjournment.
(61) Mr. Charles LUCET (France) - (Translation  PLENARY MEETINGS  from the French) Mr. President, after the moving  words spoken by the delegate of Switzerland and  the attitude adopted by the Head of the Indian dele-  gation, France naturally withdraws her support of  the Indian motion, which thus automatically lapses,
(62) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL - (Translation  from the French) Mr. President, gentlemen, I  wish once again to express my profound gratitude  to my friend Mr. Piaget, the honourable dele-  gate of Switzerland, to other delegates who have  spoken on the subject of my resignation, and to  you all for your generous applause. However, I  should like to make my position absolutely clear,  in order to spare you a confused debate which  would be unworthy of Unesco. My decision is ir-  revocable and nothing can change it. Therefore,  I hope that you may reopen the debate and that you  may overcome the obstacles you have encountered;  but do not try to overcome them for the sake of an  individual, for that would be a very bad precedent  in international affairs. Men are never symbols,  Mr. Piaget; it is institutions that are symbols.  Reopen your debate if you want to; take other de-  cisions if you want to; but take them in the name  of Unesco, not for the sake of a man; that man is  useless to you now, for he no longer has the ne-  cessary courage nor the faith that he had always  had in Unesco. I do not know how many incidents  or experiences like that of yesterday, which was  not the first of its kind, it has taken to reduce him  to that state, but it is a fact. Therefore - I say to  you in a spirit of detachment - take your decisions  as decisions should be taken, thinking of the ideal  which Unesco represents, and not of the individuals  who serve that ideal. Take any decisions you like,  but, I beg you, let there be no misunderstanding.  When, for the first time in my life, I spoke of my  "irrevocable decision to resign", believe me that  I knew exactly what I was saying.
(63) The PRESIDENT - The Colombian delegation  has not yet withdrawn its motion for adjournment.  It is still before the Conference. The text is as  follows:
(64) (Translation from the Spanish)  ombian delegation,  Considering the grave situation arising out of  the resignations of the Director-General and the  Chairman of the Executive Board, proposes:  That meetings of the Conference be suspended  until next Tuesday."
(65) I shall now proceed with the vote. Those in  favour of adjournment? Those against? The pro-  posal for adjournment is adopted by 46 votes in  favour, 1 against.  "The Col-  The meeting rose at 12. 10 p. m.  - 212 -