II-5 PLENARY MEETINGS  FIFTH PLENARY MEETING  Friday, 14 November 1952, at 10.30 a.m.  President: Dr. SARVEPALLI RADHAKRISHNAN (India)  CONTENTS  Discussion of the Director-General's Report (Contin-  uation): Speeches by the delegates of Peru, the  United Kingdom, Iraq, the Organization of American  States, Ceylon, German Federal Republic, Japan,  Netherlands and Haiti .  DISCUSSION OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL’S REPORT  (continuation)
(1) The PRESIDENT - The meeting is called to  order. I call upon the delegate of Peru.
(2) Mr. Ventura GARCIA CALDERON (Peru) -  (Translation from the Spanish) Mr. President,  fellow delegates, I shall be brief, very brief, not  only in order to allow more time for the eloquent  words of other speakers, but also because it is not  I but the Minister of Education, General Don Juan  Mendoza, who should take the floor today. His  splendid work for culture is known to all. The  Director-General of Unesco and the delegation of  Peru would have liked General Mendoza to describe,  on this solemn occasion, the collaboration between  Peru and Unesco that is increasing daily, and the  outstandingly effective activity displayed in the  field of culture by the Government headed by Gene-  ral Manuel Odria.
(3) When I returned to my country in 1949, I had  the good fortune of hearing, from the Minister of  Education himself, of a few of the projects which  had been carried out with dynamic energy and un-  wavering firmness of purpose. A grave catas-  trophe, the earthquake of Cuzco, brought forth a  feeling of fraternal solidarity from the delegates  to the Conference in Florence, and practical help  which added to our gratitude. In agreement with  the Peruvian delegation, there were appointed two  experts, proposed by Unesco, who in close colla-  boration with distinguished persons in Peru devised  a plan for reconstructing part of Cuzco, a plan in  which due regard was paid to the traditions of the  illustrious city, which the world continues to recog-  nize as the archaeological capital of South America  and the greatest centre of Inca culture.
(4) From that moment, co-operation between our  Government and Unesco became closer. Through-  out the vast territory of Peru, where distances  from town to town and from village to village are  so great, it seemed necessary in the first place to  increase the number of schools, with a view to re-  ducing illiteracy. As inthe time of the great Argen-  tine Sarmiento, an outstanding educator and one of  the founders of modern Argentina, it was indispen-  sable first of all to teach reading and writing, to  increase the number of school teachers and suitable  school premises, and to build new roads - in short,  to further fundamental education, which is one of  the basic principles of Unesco. It was, however,  necessary immediately afterwards that the child,  adolescent or adult learning to read and to acquaint  himself with world culture through books should be  able to turn his knowledge to practical purposes and  prepare himself for life. We have established, and  continue unremittingly to establish, more and more  schools to train, through manual labour and civic  education based on love of country, workers specia-  lized in all branches of modern technology, men  worthy of assuming all the tasks involved in national  development.
(5) An immense effort is being made to industria-  lize the country and adapt it to the rhythm of the  present-day world. We are carrying out this pro-  ject by "forced marches" in accordance with the  great plans of our present Government, under the  vigorous leadership of President Odria and in com-  plete agreement with our Director-General Torres  Bodet, whose talent, energy and devotion to his  task evoke the admiration of us all. I am most  happy to emphasize once more the complete har-  mony between the ideals of my country and. those of  this Organization, to which I have the great honour  of being a delegate."  - "78 -   PLENARY MEETINGS
(6) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of Peru  and now call upon the leader of the United Kingdom  delegation, Miss Florence Horsbrugh.
(7) Miss Florence HORSBRUGH (United Kingdom)  - Mr. President, fellow delegates, it is a great  honour for me to address this General Conference,  for I am a newcomer to Unesco. I was especially  anxious to lead the United Kingdom delegation on  this occasion as itis the first session of the Gene-  ral Conference of Unesco since I became Minister  of Education in my country.
(8) I am glad to find that I do not feel like a com-  plete stranger, for in the past I have been a mem-  ber of my country's delegation to the Assembly of  the League of Nations on several occasions, to the  San Francisco Conference that drew up the Charter  of the United Nations, and here in Paris, last year,  I was a delegate to the Assembly of the United Na-  tions. It has been a great pleasure for me to meet  here, during this session, some delegates with  whom I worked in one or other of those conferences  that I have attended before.
(9) The first thing I want to do is to thank the  Chairman of the Executive Board and the Director-  General for the very able speeches they delivered  to us yesterday, and I want also to congratulate the  Director-General and the Secretariat for the excel-  lent report which we are now discussing.
(10) I noticethat, in several of the speeches, there  was stressed the necessity of selection and concen-  tration in our work in Unesco. I am sure that is  right. References have also been made to the criti-  cisms of Unesco. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems  - to me that we who hold posts of responsibility have  to be prepared tobe criticized and to have our work  criticized. I have a feeling that a certain amount  of criticism, at any rate, is very healthy for us. It  may act as an incentive to a continuing scrutiny of  our plans and achievements and keep us all thetime  on the look-out for ways of improving our admini-  stration. I have had to remind myself of this point  of view on not infrequent occasions during the last  year, and now I pass it on to the Director-General  for his consideration.
(11) In approaching the work of Unesco I have  assumed there is general agreement that the  highest achievements of education, science and  culture cannot be its direct product, hardly even  its direct and immediate object. Unesco's duty is  to internationalize the planned advance of educa-  tion, science and culture by ensuring to the limits  of political and economic possibility that the best  work of any country shall be quickly and easily  accessible to every other country. There has  always been a flow of knowledge and intelligence  from country to country, an interchange, twice  blessed, of visits and of works among artists, wri-  ters, scientists and musicians. Incertainrespects,  some obvious and some not so obvious, such inter-  change has unfortunately become less general and  less manageable, despite all our improved means  II-5  of communication, than it was in earlier times.
(12) For individuals and for associations to co-  operate across frontiers in the production of a com-  mon culture is not now everywhere easy, even  where it is possible. Intellectual co-operation  cannot do what our Prime Minister once hoped for  ize political co-operation which saved our world:  just keep rolling along', like the Mississippi. It  has to be kept rolling. To secure among the de-  veloped States of the world the maximum mutual  knowledge of each other's education, science and  culture, and the maximum free interplay of thought  is, I believe, the first and perhaps the most obvious  of Unesco's duties. This is a duty in which my  country hopes that it is - it certainly means to be -  as earnest and as active as any.
(13) A second duty of humanity, and specifically of  Unesco, is the extension of cultural consciousness  and- activity. Britain is the centre of an Empire  and Commonwealth where intellectual development  has owed so much to interchange. Indeed, in a  world where habits and notions have been not less  influential than votes and forces, we have a pro-  found concern with this duty. In the questions of  fundamental education and technical assistance so  rightly emphasized by the Director-General and  other speakers -in Haiti, in Patzcuaro and in many  other parts of the world - we not only hope that our  knowledge and experience have helped Unesco to  give assistance where it is most useful, but we  gratefully acknowledge also that we have been helped  by an experience which, but for Unesco, we could  not have had.
(14) This brings me to the third function of Unesco:  to make it possible for each countryto know and to  show that its own .educational, scientific and cul-  tural activities are stimulated by Unesco, and that  its contribution to Unesco is a measure of its matu-  rity and its competence. Each State, I- believe,  will be the greater, the more it is an intellectual  and spiritual enterprise, and our common life will  surely be the richer, the more numerous are the  States attaining to equal partnership in that adven-  ture.
(15) You will already be familiar, from our report  to the Director-General, with the details of the  work of the United Kingdom National Commission -  and I wish to stress what I believe to be the enor-  mous impontance of our National Commissions.  Here I should only like to sdy that we in Great  Britain are especially fortunate in having so many  men and women of distinction in their own fields  who are readyto give unstintingly of their time and  service to the Co-operating Bodies of our National  Commission, and we are very grateful to them for  all the work that they do for us.
(16) May I give you some details of what we  have been doing. At present 155 scholars and  fellows designated by Specialized Agencies of the  United Nations are studying in our country, and  there are in addition many other students from  overseas holding scholarships in our universi-  = 79 -   II-5 PLENARY MEETINGS  ties and other institutions for higher education.
(17) We are especially convinced of the value of  exchanging our teachers with the teachers of other  countries as a means of getting to understand one  another better. Since 1945, 650 British teachers  have exchanged posts for a year with a correspon-  ding number of teachers from countries in the  Commonwealth, and nearly 720 have exchanged  posts for a year with a similar number of teachers  from the United States of America. Interchanges  on a smaller scale have also been made between  our teachers and teachers from Austria, Denmark,  France, Germany, the Netherlands, Norway and  Sweden. We have also made arrangements since  the end of the war for over 4,000 young teachers  or young people who intend to teach to come to the  United Kingdom from Austria, France, Germany  and Switzerland to work in our schools and give  lessons in their own languages. One thousand six  hundred of our young teachers have gone from our  countryto various European countries for the same  purpose. I have met a good many of these teachers  and have talked to them about their experience, and  I was delighted to find how stimulated they were by  it. Ifeel that many of the friendships that have  been formed will in no way be temporary friend-  ships.
(18) There is another development in which I per-  sonally have been particularly interested, and that  is the linking of schools in Great Britain with schools  in other countries. Already some 600 schools in  England and Wales are indirect touch with corres-  ponding schools in other European countries. I  should perhaps mention our particular interest in  teaching children about other ways of life in other  countries, and in helping them to try to understand  what the United Nations really means. We have  recently produced two pamphlets to help teachers  to give children an international background in terms  that they can really understand, and we think those  pamphlets will also be useful to older students.
(19) University teachers have come to Britain to  teach and to study, and our universities have sent  teachers to other countries.
(20) Many experts have gone from my country to  help in the organization of schools, colleges, uni-  versities and medical schools throughout the world.  To any one who has wished to consult us about the  principles and practice of government, local and  national, we have tried to state honestly our Bri-  tish experience. On all sorts of subjects - science,  technology, history, architecture, music, drama -  we have found experts, and persuaded them to go  where professional help was being sought. To few  who have asked for our help have we had to say No.
(21) We are happy to co-operate.with our neigh-  bours in educational and cultural activities under  the Treaty of Brussels, and in similar work being  done with other members of the Council of Europe.  Her Majesty's Government is actively engaged with  the Commonwealth countries in the work of tech-  nical assistance to the countries of South and South  East Asia, under the Colombo Plan. In these coun-  tries lives a quarter of the total population of the  world.
(22) We have also special responsibilities towards  the non-self-governing territories of the Common-  wealth. We supply for their systems large numbers  of technical officers, and Her Majesty's Government  has provided since 1945 the sum of $420, 000, 000  to help them in developing their resources and so-  cial services. Our country has, no doubt, been  able to give too little; no doubt it has been un-  willing to receive enough - but this does not mean  that we are unwilling to recognize the highest stan-  dards and to have our country judged by them.
(23) All this consumes resources. There is no  Member State, I believe, that is not conscious that  its resources are below its desires. In the United  Kingdom this is the season when Ministers are con-  sidering the next year's expenditure; and this  year - and how well I, as Minister of Education,  know it - we are considering more urgently and  meticulously perhaps than ever before the supplies  to our commitments both at home and abroad.
(24) International budgets are not, any more than  national budgets, exempt from the laws of arith-  metic. Of every project, I believe, we must ask  ourselves: "Is this essential?" If so, then: "Is  this the most effective and economical way of carry-  ing it out?" It is with such real questions guiding  them that our delegation has been directed to look  critically at the programme and budget which are  to be presented to this Conference.
(25) Ladies and gentlemen, surely each session of  the General Conference is a test of goodwill, co-  operation and common sense for our free nations.  I agree with the Director-General that of these  qualities there has never been enough.Of goodwill,  your patient hearing has assured me; where that  is present and intellectual honesty maybe presumed,  common sense and co-operation cannot but increase.
(26) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of the  United Kingdom and call upon the delegate of Iraq.
(27) Mr. HUSSEIN AL-YASSIN (Iraq) - Mr. Presi-  dent, fellow delegates, in the profoundly troubled  world of the present it is a blessing to have an  Organization that is concerned with the advancement  of humanity through educational, scientific and cul-  tural means. Unesco's humanitarian services have  been felt throughout the world, not primarily be-  cause of the money it spends, which is very modest  indeed compared with that spent on warlike pro-  jects, but because of its lofty mission and of its  admirably able and conscientious Director-General.
(28) Fine common sense, a generous heart, a dis-  tinguished scholarly aptitude, together with a deep  sense of duty, combine to make Mr. Torres Bodet  a personality highly respected and equally beloved.  To him, Mr. President, the Iragi delegation, on  behalf ofthemselves and on behalf of their Govern-  ment, extend their best wishes and highest esteem.  -180 -   PLENARY MEETINGS II-5
(29) Iraq has good reason to feel quite at home in  the cultural domain which has come to represent  the best united effort of mankind. Our attachment  to learning in its various aspects, that is, to the  sublime cause of Unesco, goes back to the very be-  ginning of recorded history, when even before
3,500 B.C. our forefathers were using metals and  were constructing cities admirable for those days.  Scholars have significantly named our part of the  world the cradle of civilization.
(30) Later on, during the heyday of Islam, from  the seventh to the tenth century A.D., the older  cultures were gradually amalgamated and refined,  and a vigorous new impetus for learning, secular  as well as religious, was revealed, "Take wisdom  from whatever source it may have come", and  "Tell the truth even though it were against yourself",  are only two of many similar precepts that have  been venerated by Islam.
(31) If the days of Haroun Al-Rashid and Al-  Mamoom and the name of Baghdad were rendered  glamorously famous through the well-known Ara-  bian Nights, there was a very serious significance  in those glamorous days. "Through the Arabs it  was' - to quote one distinguished English writer -  "and not by the Latin route that the modern world  received that gift of light and power". The same  writer says: "A century or so in advance of the  West, there grew up in the Moslem world anumber  of centres at Basra, at Kafa, at Baghdad and Cairo,  and at Cordoba, out of what were at first religious  schools dependent upon mosques, a series of great  universities'. “In one way or another! - to quote  a distinguished American writer - "the Arabs  covered the whole range of manufacture, agricul-  ture and navigation... To the mediaeval scholar-  ship as well as to the mediaeval art of Islam, the  world is profoundly indebted".
(32) Ladies and gentlemen, such a very long and  original relationship between the tradition of Iraq  and the very wise cause of Unesco has made our  attachment to this venerable Organization not only  intimate but affectionate as well. It is not surpris-  ing, therefore, that we in Iraq are doing our best  to uphold the cause of this Organization, and are  sparing no effort to assist and co-operate with any  members of Unesco teams of workers who come  amongst us. Our Council of Ministers has already  welcomed the meeting of Unesco's 1954 conference  on compulsory education, and the Arab States will  be happy to have it convened in any of those States.
(33) It is, nevertheless, of paramount importance  to realize that, to the rank and file in Iraq, as well  as to the intelligentsia, Unesco's efforts are still  largely in the experimental stage. We are anxiously  waiting for practical results that would go beyond  the costly preliminary studies and the largely theo-  retical reports. A pioneering spirit is, for in-  stance, the primary asset of a Unesco worker in  the field of fundamental education. For such a wor-  ker to provide himself with all the amenities of a  highly industrialized nation, such as refrigerators,  would certainly afford a bewildering example to the  rural community, which he is supposed to raise  primarily through native efforts and resources. We  have already made these comments in some detail  and the initial response of the Unesco authorities  was quite encouraging. Similarly encouraging are  Unesco's efforts to aid our vocational, technical  and scientific education, although such efforts still,  of necessity, need to be intensified and extended.
(34) "The heart of the Middle East", as Iraq has  been designated by some intelligent writers, is a  "heart" that still needs a great deal of methodical,  up-to-date studies, to be largely undertaken by its  own people. Such studies would not only contribute  to the sum total of human knowledge, but would, in  the meantime, afford criteria for enlightened native  progress that would constitute a significant part of  human progress in general.
(35) To studies connected with the countries of the  Middle East, a number of well-known institutions,  such as Columbia University and the Rockefeller  Foundation, have already paid serious attention.  Unesco, ladies and gentlemen, can evidently not  afford to lag behind in sucha new and highly cultural  trend. It is for this reason that the Iraqi delegation  repeats here its previous request, that at least a  nucleus of an up-to-date centre for research in and  study of our contemporary affairs be considered by  Unesco for Baghdad. Modern librarianship, which  is fundamentally important for any advancement of  learning, would thus be established, and scope for  badly needed research would be afforded; the pro-  jects as a whole would then constitute a model for  other Arab countries. Together with many funda-  mental undertakings that are being carried out by  our Government, such a contribution on the part of  Unesco would be invaluable indeed.
(36) Another issue that we should like to bring for-  ward is directly related to the use of Arabic as a  medium for disseminating knowledge about the mis-  sion of Unesco and its various activities. There  are very few indeed amongst the educated of the  world who know that the same language is used in  Iraq, Egypt, Syria, Lebanon, the Hashemite Kingdom  of Jordan, Saudi-Arabia and Yemen, as well as in  such other countries of the Persian Gulf as Koweit,  Bahrein and Oman, together with Libya, Algeria,  Tunis and Morocco bordering the Mediterranean  and the Atlantic Ocean. In all these areas Arabic  is the language of the press and radio, of lectures,  books and academic institutions, regardless of the  variegated vernaculars. This is true, of course,  except where foreign domination bars the full use  of the mother tongue. There are, moreover, many  millions of people who know and use Arabic in such  important areas as Iran, Afghanistan, Pakistan,  India and Indonesia, it being the language of the  Holy Koran. It is a pity that the presumably en-  lightened generation of the twentieth century has  not yet come to appreciate such an outstanding cul-  tural phenomenon. The Iragi delegation believes  that Unesco should make full use of this great cul-  A   II-5  tural vehicle, by maintaining a first-rate Arabic  department that would undertake translations and  publications, and serve as a link between Unesco's  ideas and ideals on the one hand and all the coun-  tries and peoples who use Arabic on the other.  Without such a competent central department, the  widespread interest in Unesco and its ideals may  not very well be kept up. and fully utilized to the  benefit of the Arab world and of humanity in general.  Budgetary considerations shouldnever stand in the  way of achieving such a necessary end.
(37) The final issue that we need to emphasize at  present is related to the vital problem of the Arab  refugees of Palestine, a problem that has already  caused anxiety and aroused much interest. To the  sons and daughters of those hundreds of thousands  of destitute human beings aid and education mustbe  given on a really considerable scale. Unesco and  UNRWA have, to be sure, already co-operated with  the Arab countries, including of course Iraq, in  rendering services to those deprived people. Such  efforts must, however, be greatly increased if any  appreciable results are to be achieved, if a really  humanitarian work is to be performed, and if some  substantial remedy is to be found for the fatal in-  justices thathave been done to those Arab refugees  of Palestine.
(38) The admirable speech of our Director-General  revives hope in the hearts of the less-developed  peoples of the world that their expectations of  Unesco may be more amply realized. It is in this  way, Mr. President and fellow delegates, that the  majority of the human race may be raised to adig-  nified standard of living.
(39) The PRESIDENT -1I thank the delegate of Iraq  and now call upon Mr. Nannetti, of the Organization  of American States.
(40) Mr. Guillermo NANNETTI (Organization of  American States) - Mr. President, ladies and  gentlemen, on behalf of the Organization of Ameri-  can States I wish to congratulate the Director-  General on his excellent report to the General Con-  ference. This report makes evident the steady  progress of Unesco. It is a document which does  honour to our age, since it reveals, perhaps for  the first time in history, a universal interest in  dignifying man's life through education, science and  culture.
(41) My colleague, Mr. Amoroso Lima, the great  Brazilian philosopher and writer, has spoken about  the ways and possibilities of co-operation between  the Organization of American States and Unesco.
(42) The Organization of American States is the  outgrowth of an evolution that has been going on for
60 years in the relations among the American  peoples. As you know, in this Organization all the  nations of America are represented. It is governed  by a Council all of whose members are on a stand-  ing of equality. No one Member State has the right  of veto. The American nations have established a  PLENARY MEETINGS  body of principles of international law, executed  through institutions and treaties, to ensure peace  throughout the continent. A stable peace, however,  cannot be founded simply on international treaties;  rather, it must be firmly fixed in the minds of men.  The human spirit defends peace only when peace  ensures the conditions essential to the life of the  spirit. These conditions are freedom, justice and  hope. So long as they are not fully secured our  society will be subject to instability, under the  threat of forces which, however much repressed,  grow silently more and more persistent.
(43) The achievement of international peace is not  enough. We must ensure political peace; we must  ensure social peace and religious peace. With this  in mind, the Charter of the Organization of Ameri-  can States proclaims that the historic mission of  America is to offer man a land of freedom, an en-  vironment favourable to the development of his  personality and the realization of his just hopes.
(44) At the same time, the American Declaration  of the Rights and Duties of Man says: - "Inasmuch  as spiritual development isthe supreme end of hu-  man existence and the highest expression thereof,  it is the duty of man to serve that end with all his  strength and resources".
(45) That is why the Charter of the Organization of  American States and the American Declaration of  the Rights and Duties of Man, recognizing the con-  ditions that are vital to the human spirit, make the  right of education a basic right.
(46) Between the Organization of American States  and Unesco there is an identity of aims. Unesco  also seeks to build peace in the minds of men and  proclaims that education is the best architect of that  peace.
(47) Conscious of the identity of their aims and the  possibilities of co-operation to attain them, the two  Organizations joined in a general agreement to es-  tablish a permanent co-operative working arrange-  ment. This agreement expressed recognition of  facts. Co-operationbetween Unesco and the Organi-  zation of American States had begun with the Inter-  American Seminar on Fundamental Education of  Caracas, in 1948, and the Inter-American Seminar  on Literacy and Adult Education of Rio de Janeiro,  in 1949. This co-operation continued in the Inter-  American Seminar on Elementary Education of  Montevideo, in 1950, and in the Conference on the  Development of Public Library Services, held in  Sao Paulo, Brazil. Unesco also co-operated with  the Organization of American States, the Interna-  tional Labour Office, and the Government of the  United States of America in the seminar for voca-  tional education held this year in Maryland Univer-  sity. The two Organizations are now preparing to  sponsor jointly the Inter-American Seminar on  Secondary Education which will take place in San-  tiago, Chile, in 1954.
(48) The significance of this joint effort on the  part of Unesco and the Organization of American  States is also evident in the Latin American Re-  - 82 -   PLENARY MEETINGS II-5  gional Centre for Fundamental Education, esta-  blished by Unesco in Patzcuaro, Mexico, with the  financial and technical co-operation of the Organi-  zation of American States, and in the Latin Ameri-  can Bureau for the production of fundamental edu-  cation materials.
(49) This Bureau prepares reading texts and  audio-visual aids suitable for use under anew con-  cept of functional reading. The results of its work  have aroused great interest among the American  nations and may prove of value to other regions of  the world. It has obtained the co-operation of  technical committees in health, agriculture, edu-  cation and economic and social affairs. An editorial  staff of experts in the production of reading ma-  terials and audio-visual aids works with the com-  mittees. Materials are tested in urban and rural  areas of Latin America. The Bureau will distri-  bute next January first editions of one million  copies. In this way the Latin American Bureau for  the production of fundamental education materials  will do its part in carrying Unesco's message to  the minds and hearts of men.
(50) The American nations have associated them-  selves for attaining together the historic mission  of America: to offer to all men a land of freedom,  peace and hope. For this reason the Organization  of American States is called to co-operate with  Unesco. America belongs to mankind.
(51) The PRESIDENT - I thank the representative  of the Organization of American States and now call  upon the delegate of Ceylon.
(52) Colonel J. F. MENDIS (Ceylon) - Mr. Presi-  dent and fellow delegates, I should like, first of all,  to associate myself with the eloquent tributes that  have been paid to the Director-General for the re-  port that he has presented to this Conference. May  I suggest that the best manner in which we can  show our appreciation of the great services he has  rendered to Unesco is notby merely expressing our  thanks, but rather by giving him the utmost assis-  tance, by carrying out the programme that has  been planned, and also by developing the work of  Unesco in the various Member States that we rep-  resent.
(53) I should like to confine my remarks specifi-  cally to Ceylon in relation to the work of Unesco.  The main purpose of this Conference is, after all,  to take stock of our position and to plan out our work  for the future. It is therefore just as well to exa-  mine what I might call the debit side and compare  it with the credit side of our balance-sheet.
(54) Concerning the debit side, that is, the expen-  diture made by Unesco in regard to Ceylon, you  will see in the tabular summary showing technical  assistance activities that a fundamental education  demonstration centre has been established at Min-  neriya and training centres for training teams of  workers in rural areas have been set up. I would  add here that the fundamental education project has  had the co-operation of experts sent byother allied  organizations, such as FAO, ILO and WHO. Ceylon  has also had the benefit of an expert in scientific  research in beach minerals and iron-ore deposits.  Although it may perhaps be premature to evaluate  the results of these projects, I think it can be said  that these technical experts have served as mis-  sionaries in a great cause. Unesco, in so far as  Ceylon is concerned, is no longer something nebu-  lous or irrelevant. The fundamental education pro-  ject has brought home very intimately to the people  of the 39 villages served by it that Unesco is some-  thing that directly concerns their daily lives. This  is something that we must place on the credit side  of our balance-sheet.
(55) This is not all. During the past year-and-a-  half the National Commissions, and in particular  the "'ad hoc' sub-commissions, have, I think, made  a very valuable contribution. Reference was made  to their reports during the Conference on National  Commissions. I want in particular to refer to the  report of the sub-commission to consider ways and  means of spreading knowledge about Unesco. As a  result of this report, an important and far-reaching  decision has been taken by the Government of Cey-  lon, namely, that provision should be made in the  curricula of both primary and secondary schools  for teaching about the United Nations and its Agen-  cies. At the secondary school level syllabuses are  to be widened by the inclusion of a detailed study of  the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies.  The actual syllabuses are now being worked out by  educationists and, when one remembers that about
80% of our children receive their education through  the national languages, Sinhalese or Tamil, it will  no doubt be realized that the greatest need will be  for literature for the benefit of the teachers in  these languages.
(56) I want to refer to one other matter, and that  is the value of the various seminars and conferences  held by Unesco and its allied organizations, such  as the International Bureau of Education. It has not  been possible for Ceylon to send delegations to  every conference and every seminar, but that should  not be construed as lack of interest on our part.  Our resources are limited, and, at the present  time, there is the utmost need for economy in  government expenditure. Ceylon has, however,  taken part in practically all the regional seminars  held in South East Asia. I wantto refer in particu-  lar to the seminar on adult education held a few  years ago in Mysore, because of the far-reaching  influence it has had on the educational system of  Ceylon, especially in adult education; a large part  of the remarkable development is due tothis semi-  nar. Recently a Central Council on Adult Educa-  tion, consisting of various Government departments,  has been established to co-ordinate the various as-  pects of adult education and to prevent the over-  lapping of work by various agencies. The more  recent seminar held in Delhi on youth welfare has  had the result of bringing together a number of
11-5  agencies, and it is our hope that in the very near  future a Youth Council will be established. I am  afraid that very often there is a certain amount of  scepticism about the value of these seminars; it is  for thatreason that I felt it would be desirable that  the Unesco Secretariat should know that they have  had definite results and that the time and energy  spent on them have been fully justified.
(57) If I may be permitted to make a suggestion  for the consideration of the Unesco Secretariat, we  should like to have the working papers and question-  naires relating to these seminars sent well ahead of  the date of the seminar, so that the delegations can  be fully prepared and fully briefed.
(58) In concluding, I shall give the assurance - if  any such assurance is needed - that my country,  with its great cultural and spiritual heritage, will  always be prepared to make its contribution, how-  ever small it may be, to the peace and happiness  of mankind.
(59) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of Cey-  lon and now call upon the delegate of the German  Federal Republic. +
(60) Mr. W. HALLSTEIN (German Federal Repub-  lic) - Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, this is  the first time that an official delegation of the Ger-  man Federal Republic has taken part in the deliber-  ations at a session of the Unesco General Confer-  ence. Let its first words, therefore, be a renewed  pledge to the fundamental concept of Unesco, and  an expression of grateful satisfaction that the Fed-  eral Republic can now join the family of nations  in this work of international co-operation in the  spheres of science, education and culture and the  safeguarding of peace.
(61) The Director-General was good enough to pay  an official visit early this year to the Federal Re-  public, and I should once more like to thank him  sincerely for this visit. He will recall the words  which the Federal President and the Federal Chan-  cellor addressed to him in the Plenary Session Hall  of the German "Bundestag'". Through their two  highest authorities the German people pledged  themselves to the ideal of international solidarity  inthe intellectual sphere and to service in the com-  mon task of preserving, fostering and making avai-  lable to all nations the cultural treasures of man-  kind.
(62) In this same spirit the delegation of the  Federal Republic today attends the Seventh Session  of the General Conference. May I ask that the few  remarks which I now permit myself to make be  also accepted in this spirit? You will understand  that I cannot comment on the Director-General's  Report with the same background of experience as  the heads of the other delegations. It is especially  in regard to critical suggestions for further deve-  lopment that the German delegation wishes to im-  pose certain limits on itself. I should, however,  like to consider several items in the Director-  PLENARY MEETINGS  General's Report. I wish to say that I was very  much impressed by the breadth of view. of this Re-  port, as well as by its explicitness. It was only  yesterday that we admired the courage, the realism  and the enthusiasm with which the eminent Director-  General, Mr. Torres Bodet, spoke about the future  tasks of Unesco.
(63) May I now be permitted to deal with some of  the basic problems which have aroused interest and  animated discussions not only within the Federal  Government and our Unesco Commission but also  among the public?
(64) The Report of the Director-General reveals  the endeavour to achieve greater "concentration of  effort’ and a more clearly defined "process of inte-  gration of the programme". The German delegation  would like to congratulate the Director-General on  this endeavour and to urge him to continue along  this path undeterred by the special demands of cer-  tain groups. Whilst I, too, should like to express  the wish that Unesco should not too greatly diversify  its activities, the question immediately arises as  towhat guiding principles should be adopted and on  what level the process of concentration which has  already been so satisfactorily begun should be con-  tinued.
(65) I should like to emphasize here the importance  of the National Commissions. It goes without say-  ing that not all the various activities on the pro-  gramme of Unesco will have the same importance  for all Member States. When the National Com-  missions are making a choice, I should like to see,  in such a limitation of their activities as is sugges-  ted by the special historical and cultural conditions  of the country concerned, the possibility of a salu-  tory intensification of the work of Unesco.
(66) This, however, might also entail a certain  danger. The unity and cohesion of Unesco might be  jeopardized unless the Organization itself lays  down the guiding principles for the concentration  and intensification of its work on a broad interna-  tional scale. How can this be accomplished? I do  not believe that it would be right to curtail any one  of the three great fields of activity of Unesco - edu-  cation, science and culture - in favour of the others.  To disrupt the harmony of the three would lead not  to mere limitation but to impoverishment. It is  preferable that the necessary concentration and in-  tensification should take place within the three  broad fields of activity and that each of these should  grow around a clearly defined centre. Perhaps one  of the tasks of this General Conference will be to  determine with the help of a working party the  guiding principles to be followed, and to determine  where the emphasis within each of these three fields  of activity should lie.
(67) I should like to indicate very briefly where we  should seek the centres of these three interlinking  circles of education, science and culture.
(68) The work of education should be inspired by  respect for the dignity of man. Its aim is to help  people to live in a human community and to realize  - 84 -   PLENARY  their responsibilities in it. In its programme of  education Unesco should further such measures as  can be considered helpful in stressing the idea of  human solidarity and in awakening in the world,  which is becoming progressively smaller, a con-  scientious appraisal of the fact that the fate of every  human individual is increasingly linked with that of  all others. As a result of such human solidarity  we logically come face to face with these two great  tasks which, as the Report of the Director-General  shows, have already been begun with such great  energy: the aid to education where it is most  acutely needed, in areas which have been particu-  larly affected by war, catastrophes of nature or the  expulsion of whole groups; and the struggle against  illiteracy. We wish to support energetically the  assistance offered by Unesco inthis process of spi-  ritual emancipation, which takes place with the in-  exorability of a natural law; we do so despite the  voices of scepticism which can be heard here and  there all over the world. I am not saying anything  new when I emphasize that human beings will not  necessarily become better or more peacefully  minded because they are more intelligent or more  educated. An education, however, which is gov-  erned by respect for the dignity of humankind will  avoid the danger of regarding mere intellectual and  material development as progress. On the con-  trary, such education will direct its attention to  the deeper spiritual bonds, as they are constituted  by family and nation, by language, custom and re-  ligion; the destruction of these bonds cannot be  compensated by any intellectual or material pro-  gress.
(69) In the realm of science, all energies should  be concentrated on activities which are likely to  further research; for research is the very life of  science. What Unesco has already initiated in the  field of natural sciences is particularly satisfactory.  In the realm of social sciences, also, some fruit-  ful tasks have been undertaken. It is evident that  scientific research means long-term planning, and  it cannot be organized with a direct view to immed-  iate practical results. This is particularly true if  one believes that science is one of the great spiri-  tual forces which shape and determine the life of  mankind. Science includes, in addition to the ex-  ploration of nature andsociety, the study of history,  language, religion, philosophy and so on - in one  word, everything which we in Germany call "Geis-  teswissenschaften'. I have noticed that, in the  present programme of Unesco, natural and social  sciences form a special department, but that the  "Geisteswissenschaften" figure among the "cul-  tural activities". I hope that this does not mean a  lesser appreciationof a fieldwhich is of the great-  est importance for the whole cultural life and, last  but not least, for the peaceful development of man-  kind.
(70) In the cultural field, I should consider the  great task of Unesco to be that of helping to bring  about much closer contact among the great cul-  MEETINGS II-5  tural spheres of mankind than has hitherto existed.  What do we Europeans really know about the men-  tality of South East Asia, or about the cultural  creations of the Islamic world? In order to esta-  blish spiritual contact with one's neighbours it is  necessary to have, not the help of an international  body, but a realunderstanding of the culture of far-  away continents. In this respect again I am think-  ing not only of scientific accomplishments or tech-  nical progress, but also of artistic productions and  of ethical and religious values which have been to  millions of people an inspiration for their creative  work.
(71) I have observed with great satisfaction that  the draft programme contemplates several fields  of study for the comparison of different cultures  and that Unesco pays more and more attention not  only to European-American culture, but also to the  values which the other great civilizations have con-  tributed to mankind. I feel it my duty to express  again today the gratitude we owe in this connexion  to the distinguished President of this Conference,  Dr. Radhakrishnan, who through his writings has  given the Western world a much deeper understan-  ding of Indian thinking, and who represents a living  guarantee that Unescois moving in the right direc-  tion when, whilst emphasizing the diversity of cul-  tures and the individuality of each, it brings out  that which is common to all mankind.
(72) Turning to a second, completely different,  group of problems, I should like to touch on the  question of the relationship between cultural admi-  nistration and cultural life. This problem will  arise on three different levels: national activity,  the co-operation of various nations, and the work  of Unesco.
(73) As a Specialized Agency of the United Nations,  Unesco is a community of States, for the activities  of which the governments are responsible on the  national level, while international responsibility  rests with the General Conference composed of off-  icial delegations. However, we all realize that  governmentalagencies - local, national or interna-  tional - cannot themselves act as exponents, let  alone as creators of culture, and that they are  called upon only to promote the development and  diffusion of culturalwork and to remove obstacles.
(74) Vital cultural work is produced where God has  endowed a scholar, an artist or a poet with crea-  tive power, and is most likely to flourish where  free initiative can develop under the protection of  the State. For this reason, in particular, we are  grateful that the founders of Unesco have assigned  a special rôle to the National Commissions, in  which these untramelled forces in education, sci-  ence and cultural life can co-operate. On the  international level the non-governmental organiza-  tions deserve special consideration for the same  reason.
(75) We are very happy that the cultural groups of  our country have been able, in a short time, to set  up a German National Commission for Unesco,  - 85 -   II-5  capable of doing effective work. The Federal  Republic intentionally gave to that Commission full  autonomy and responsibility, regardless of the fact  that the cost of the budget of the German Unesco  Commission is borne by the Republic itself. The  chief precedent for this is the independent and re-  sponsible position which the university holds in my  country, according to a long-standing tradition;  and I confess that I consider such autonomy one of  the pillars not only of cultural freedom but of the  consolidation of the democratic idea in Germany.
(76) The very practical work of the National Com-  missions leads us to another aspect of our prob-  lem which is of the highest importance in the  general structure of Unesco's work, namely, the  relationship between national, regional and inter-  national cultural activities. For if one recognizes  that organized endeavour in the field of science and  culture can, in the last resort, be nothing but the  nurturing of forces growing freely from their own  sources, the natural link between the cultural  forces of a nation andthe universal aims of Unesco  will be the close and permanent collaboration of  neighbouring National Commissions at the regional  level.
(77) The German delegation therefore warmly  welcomes the efforts of the Director-General to  introduce some decentralization of the work of  Unesco through the setting up of Co-operation Of-  fices for the Western Hemisphere and for Southern  Asia. Our delegation favours an even stronger  emphasis on this regional aspect in the work of the  National Commissions.
(78) Ininternational life alsothis principle applies:  problems should be dealt with on a higher level  only if a solution is not feasible on the lower level.  Organic development therefore requires that only  such tasks as cannot be dealt with either within the  national or regional frameworks be performed on  the international level.
(79) We have observed with satisfaction that good-  neighbour relations have developed between the  German National Commission and other National  Commissions. I need not stress that the co-opera-  tion now developing between the German and the  French National Commissions is particularly wel-  come, for we can say that a characteristic of  French civilization is that it is directed in all its  expressions towards the universality which also  guides Unesco.
(80) I should like, in conclusion, to express my  happiness and my gratitude that we have the privi-  lege of being guests in this city of Paris, the per-  fectly appropriate setting for that universal ''répub-  lique des esprits' which is served by Unesco.
(81) The ultimate goal of Unesco is the establish-  ment of peace in the hearts and minds of men. The  way to this goal is long and diffieult, but its a-  chievement depends solely on men's will. I recall  here the words of Immanuel Kant, who said: "Der  Friede ist kein Naturzustand unter den Menschen.  Er muss also gestiftet werden" - "Peace is not  PLENARY MEETINGS  a natural state among men. It must be won".
(82) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of the  German Federal Republic and now call upon the  leader of the Japanese delegation, Mr. Tamon  Maeda.
(83) Mr. Tamon MAEDA (Japan) - Mr. President,  Mr. Director-General, fellow delegates, before  submitting to the General Conference the observa-  tions of the Japanese delegation on the subjects  under deliberation, I wish to say that we, the  people of Japan, rejoice at Unesco's steady growth  and its remarkable accomplishments.
(84) We are grateful to the Director-General and  his staff and to the Executive Board for their in-  defatigable labours throughout the past year. We  desire to pay our sincere tribute to the memory of  the late Count Stefano Jacini, who, as President of  the Fifth Session of the General Conference in 1950  and as Chairman of the Executive Board for last  year, so greatly contributed towards the success  of this Organization.
(85) The Japan of the present is not the Japan of  the past. Our people are now assiduously engaged  in the rebuilding of the country as a nation dedica-  ted to peace and freedom. Owing to the fact, how-  ever, that we have to support 84 million people on  four small islands, we are constantly harassed  with grave problems relating to food, resources  and population. The solution of these difficulties  is tobe found only in the full exploitation of domes-  tic resources by the intensive application of science  and technology and in the acceleration of inter-  national economic interchanges through co-opera-  tion with other friendly countries. In this sense,  Japan today is vitally interested in the strengthen-  ing of international solidarity. We wish not mere-  ly to see the elevation of the living standards and  cultural level of all peoples through the activities  of the United Nations and its Specialized Agencies,  but also to participate positively and wholehearted-  ly in those activities by every means at our dis-  posal.
(86) As I pointed out last year on the occasion of  Japan's admission to Unesco, the ideals of the  Organization, ever since it was inaugurated, have  attracted increasing numbers of men and women,  so that today we have in Japan a vigorous Unesco  movement with 103 co-operating associations and
13 supporting organizations, united under the Fed-  eration of Unesco Associations. There are also  some 170 Unesco Student Clubs set up in various  colleges and universities of the country. This  spontaneous development of the movement on a  national scale serves to indicate the profound  interest of the Japanese people in international  organs for peace.
(87) If the spirit of Unesco has captured the imag-  ination of the Japanese people, this is largely due  to the noble cause it stands for: the defences of  peace to be constructed in the minds of men. Yet  = BB =   PLENARY MEETINGS  we have to admit candidly that the Unesco move-  ment in Japan was, in its origin, rather an ideal-  istic one, and lacked a concrete and realistic pro-  gramme for implementing the ideals.
(88) It was not long, however, before voices were  raised, in both governmental and private circles,  calling for a working plan to give a definite direc-  tion and concrete aims to the movement. Respond-  ing to that call, and after Japan's admission to  Unesco, the Diet enacted last June the "Law con-  cerning Unesco Activities". In conformity with  this law, the National Commission was established  on 1 August. Various activities of these numerous  Unesco associations and clubs are well co-ordina-  ted under the National Commission, and thus the  Unesco movement in Japan is on a fully organized  basis.
(89) I should like to add that we owe an immense  debt of gratitude to the Unesco Secretariat, which  inaugurated in Japan a series of important pro-  grammes, such as the one concerning the youth  movement and the social tensions survey, in ac-  cordance with the resolutions of the General Con-  ference. Nor shall we ever forget the accomplish-  ments of Professor S. M. Lee, who until the Tokyo  Unesco Office was closed this summer, . had zeal-  ously served as Unesco's representative in Japan  for the execution of these programmes.
(90) The Japanese delegation believes that present  international tensions call for intensified activities  on the part of Unesco for its aim of peace in the  fields of education, science and culture. We have  to admit to our great regret, however, that this  world situation is not likely to make it easier to  obtain a sufficient increase in the budget of Unesco  for the fulfilment of its ever-increasing task. If  the 1953-1954 budget, as submitted by the Secre-  tariat, is the maximum which can be expected  under existing circumstances, the Japanese dele-  gation still hopes that the smaller the budget, the  greater the care to be given to the planning of pro-  grammes. It hopes that the precious fund will not  merely be spent for the continuation of the work  already started, but will also be allocated on a  priority basis to such new enterprises as are  deemed especially important and useful.
(91) The Japanese delegation believes that prior-  ity should be given to matters connected with the  Technical Assistance Programme, especially in  its application to Asia. This huge area, designated  generally by the rather vague name of Asia, com-  prises many nations possessing their own historical  and geographical backgrounds, national traits and  traditions, all of which are facing tremendous  difficulties in harmonizing their own traditions with  new foreign patterns of civilization. The task of  solving this problem must constitute a new chal-  lenge to Unesco. From this point of view, one  cannot help laying great stress uponthe importance  of this area, particularly of the Far East, where  world-shaking events are now taking place. Unesco,  as an organ engaged in the building of world peace  II-5  from the non-political angles of education, science  and culture, may well succeed here in preparing  the ground for a rational solution of the problem  that politics alone cannot solve. For this reason,  the Japanese delegation earnestly hopes that a  larger share of Unesco activities will be allotted  to these Asiatic areas.
(92) Japan, in a corner of the Far East, had pre-  served intact for many centuries the traditions of  Asiatic culture. Since the Restoration of Meiji, in
1868, she has quickly developed into a modern  State by absorbing Western civilization. This  "meeting of East and West" in Japan took place in  a typical fashion, producing friction here and there  between the two civilizations, and generating in  turn contempt for the old heritage and antagonism  towards everything new. But a happy fusion of the  two civilizations has been achieved to a great ex-  tent in the life of the nation. Equipped with this  experience of the past 85 years, Japan is prepared  to serve the cause of harmony and stability in  Asia.
(93) Unesco programmes for utilizing the resour-  ces of science in all fields, in order to build up  such conditions as will enable mankind to live in  peace, have the full support of the Japanese nation,  Investigations of social tensions, development of  oceanic resources, and basic studies of the prob-  lem of population from social and scientific points  of view - these are the three major tasks which  have been taken up by the Government and academ-  ic circles in Japan as a means of contributing to-  wards the realization of Unesco's objectives. We  believe particularly that basic studies of oceanic  resources, which have vast and almost unlimited  possibilities, known and unknown, for contributing  to human welfare, and which must of necessity be  conducted on an international scale, should be en-  couraged vigorously by Unesco. That is why the  Japanese delegation has come prepared to submit  this question to the General Conference.
(94) In conclusion, we are convinced that world  peace today depends much on a "meeting of East  and West" in Asia in terms of an intimate collabor-  ation of free and peace-loving nations which will  bear good fruits. Aware of the heavy responsibili-  ties imposed on us inthis respect, I wish to assure  you, Mr. President and fellow delegates, of Japan's  hearty co-operation in the cause of Unesco, which  alone can save the world from the perilous situa-  tion in which it finds itself and pave the way for  the peace, prosperity and progress of mankind.
(95)  Japan and now call upon Mr. H.R. Kruyt,  Head of the Netherlands delegation.  The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Deputy
(96) Mr. H.R. KRUYT (Netherlands) - (Transla-  tion from the French) Mr. President, ladies and  gentlemen, the Minister of Education, Arts and  Sciences of the Netherlands, who was preparing to  head the Netherlands delegation, was detained at  Te   II-5 PLENARY  the last moment at The Hague to attend meetings of  Parliament on the budget of his Ministry. He has  asked me to present his regrets and to inform you,  on his behalf, of the general ideas that will guide  the Netherlands delegation at this Seventh Session  of the Unesco General Conference. I must admit  thatI accepted this invitation with great pleasure, as  it affords me the honour of addressing a message  of greeting from the Netherlands to all the States  represented at this Conference, and of expressing  my pleasure at seeing again the distinguished  persons with whom the General Conferences of the  past have enabled me to make deep and lasting  friendships.
(97) I am glad to acknowledge that Unesco's pro-  gramme for 1951-1952 has not failed to render real  services to the educational, scientific and cultural  work of the Netherlands. It has permitted us to  undertake, nationally as well as internationally,  activities which, though not always spectacular,  are none the less concrete and fruitful. In general  it can be said that collaboration with Unesco has  afforded many persons and organizations, whose  activities lie in the fields of education, science and  the fine arts, the opportunity to study at close  quarters the international aspects of the questions  with which they are concerned. It has permitted  them, furthermore, to make the results of their  research available to persons and organizations  interested throughout the entire world.
(98) The most spectacular element in the Nether-  lands participation in Unesco's programme through-  out the past year has been without doubt the meet-  ing at Woudschoten, near Utrecht, of an interna-  tional seminar onthe central theme of ''discovering  active methods in education for living in a world  community". This is a subject which, in the  country of Grotius, could not but arouse the great-  est interest. Both the Government and the National  Commission were very happy to give all moral and  material support to the director of the seminar,  Dr. Beeby, as well as to the Unesco Secretariat,  which organized the meeting.
(99) Unesco's seminars on the teaching of history  in primary and secondary schools, on the teaching  of the visual arts in general education, and on the  role of museums in education were particularly  appreciated by the Netherlands delegates, who have  made known the results in professional circles  within their country. Netherlands experts took an  active part in the study of the use of indigenous  languages as a vehicle of instruction, and in the  preparation of the Universal Copyright Conven-  tion and the International Convention for the Pro-  tection, in case of Armed Conflict, of Monuments,  Collections and other Cultural Property. Scienti-  fic circles were greatly interested by the creation  of the International Computation Centre, by the  results of the international study on the theme of  "energy in the service of man", by the establish-  ment of several councils to study the problems of  the arid zone, and by the preparatory work for the  MEETINGS  establishment of a European Centre of Nuclear  Research.
(100) One outstanding proof of the increasing un-  derstanding shown by Netherlands intellectual and  cultural circles in regard to Unesco is the fact that  private and governmental institutions have given  detailed answers to numerous requests for inform-  ation, and to enquiries which the Secretariat has  had to address tothem in order to assemble neces-  sary documentation. And while there are still too  frequent instances of severe criticism inthe public  press, based for the most part on inaccurate in-  formation, there are, on the other hand, more and  more competent persons, especially in cultural  and intellectual circles, who recognize the grow-  ing value of the Organization's activities. The  press conference given by the Director-General  during his visit to the Netherlands for the opening  of the Woudschoten seminar, as well as the press  service which, thanks to substantial aid from the  Secretariat, was inaugurated by the Unesco Inform-  ation Centre in Amsterdam, had very useful re-  sults in this respect.
(101) Mr. President, I believe I shall be acting in  the spirit of this Conference if I do not dwell at too  great length on the different items of the proposed  programme for 1953 and 1954. I shall confine  myself to a few general remarks, since the meet-  ings that are to be held will afford the Netherlands  delegation the opportunity of expressing its views  on the details of what is proposed. I shall not,  moreover, take up unduly the valuable time of this  Conference in praisingthe programme of activities  for the next two years, the credit for which must  be given to the Executive Board and to the Direc-—  tor-General and his collaborators. Allow me  merely to say that the Netherlands delegation  readily approves the great majority of the projects  submitted to the Conference for study. We note  with satisfaction that this year, too, the pro-  gramme is becoming more concrete; and we hope  that the General Conference, in its turn, will be  able to avoid vague and fanciful ideas, and give the  Secretariat fresh encouragement to continue along  the road on which it has embarked.
(102) I do not think I am expressing any new or  original thought, Mr. President, in pointing out  the danger inherent in the tendency - which is quite  natural - to desire to do and organize too many  things. In many of Unesco's publications, and  recently in the speech which the Director-General  delivered at the opening of the annual conference  of non-governmental organizations enjoying con-  sultative status with Unesco, we have read with  great satisfaction that Unesco has a high regard  for the collaboration of the international non-  governmental organizations, which draw most of  their support from private initiative, How could  it be otherwise, since most of these organizations  existed already, long before Unesco, and have  acquired, in their own particular fields, experience  far greater than that of Unesco. I believe, how-  = 188 =   PLENARY MEETINGS  ever, that it is worth while emphasizing and con-  tinuing to emphasize this point, since the tendency  toward over-centralization exists in every organ-  ization, whether it be national or international,  governmental or non-governmental. The present  economic and social structure of the world has  deprived private initiative of the large-scale  material resources that, even fifteen years ago,  were available to it, and has concentrated them in  official hands. Private enterprise desiring to  carry on its productive work is obliged to have  ever-increasing recourse to public funds. Under  such conditions there is a great danger that the  central authorities, seeing that they are resorted  to for an ever-growing number of activities, will  feel obliged, not merely to exercise legitimate  control over the use of the funds they have had to  find, but also to take over wholly the execution of  projects, in fields where private enterprise is or  could be much more effective than they are. This  is particularly true of governmental activity,  whether at the national or atthe international level.  There are considerable fields of human activity  which, by their very nature, are outside the com-  petence of governments or in which governmental  authority should exert its influence in collaboration  with other institutions of the community. This is  especially the case in everything concerning edu-  cation, science and culture - the essential field of  Unesco's activities. If, therefore, there is any  Specialized Agency of the United Nations where the  influence of the non-governmental organizations  ought to make itself felt, that Agency is certainly  Unesco.
(103) For this reason my Government was very  pleased to note, among other things in the para-  graph concerning the creation of a world network  of fundamental education centres, the draft reso-  lution stipulating that "the Director-General is  authorized to assist Member States to extend and  improve fundamental education in their territories  and in non-self-governing territories under their  administration in association with the United Na-  tions, the other Specialized Agencies 'and appro-  priate International Organizations'". My Govern-  ment ardently hopes that this authorization will be  given to the Director-General, and that he in turn  Will use it very liberally to make contact, in this  most important matter, with those institutions  which have for centuries devoted their activities  to fundamental education in higher than purely  temporal interests.
(104) The same holds good for financial aid to  international organizations devoted to purely scien-  tific aims. Here, too, Unesco's task is to assist  international collaboration rather than to set such  collaboration on foot itself. It is clear that Unesco  must also take the lead wherever private initiative  is lacking or fails to organize international co-  operation to an adequate degree. However, the  Organization will have to ensure in this connexion  that the international organizations which it helps  II-5  to bring into being do in fact meet real existing  needs and correspond to the desires expressed by  workers in their fields; only so can they prove  truly fruitful.
(105) I venture, Mr. President, to call attention  to another factor which seems to me another as-  pect of the same problem. This is the importance  of the human element in international co-operation.  In a world which tends increasingly to rely on  technology and to divide humanity into two anony-  mous masses, Unesco owes it to itself, in the  name of the great aims for which it was created,  to bring about harmony within the diversity of the  different cultures and to establish the dignity of  the human person. At a previous conference, the  Netherlands delegation stressed that a true appre-  ciation of the world's basic diversity, and especial-  ly of the different ways of life and the different  religious ideas, was essential to all collaboration,  even in the execution of practical projects. This  diversity should likewise be reflected in sound de-  centralization of Unesco's activities and in func-  tional collaboration with the other institutions  for international co-operation at other levels - I  think, in connexion with my country, of the Council  of Europe, the Brussels Treaty, and the various  bilateral agreements.
(106) The experience of these post-war years has  shown that it is in the field of bilateral agreements  and regional bodies that the most concrete results  can be obtained. It would therefore be well for  Unesco's Member States to keep constantly in mind  that their collaboration within Unesco's framework  is likely to remain purely theoretical unless that  collaboration is strengthened by real efforts in  connexion with bilateral and regional agreements.  That is why my delegation attaches great import-  ance to the draft agreement with the Council of  Europe, which appears onthe agenda of the present  Conference.
(107) Cultural differences and respect for the  human personality are again closely associated  when we study the influence of the introduction of  modern technology into countries that technically  may be less advanced than our own but whose  culture and economic and social structures are  rooted in, and fed by, age-old traditions. We must  see to it that the "technical assistance experts  despatched are not merely technicians, but indivi-  duals possessing à considerable general culture  and imbued with a deep respect for the culture and  customs of the countries in which they will work.  The Netherlands has made an effort to train such  people, by setting up an international institute of  social studies at The Hague. Students of different  nationalities, especially from South East Asia, have  entered for its courses, which began last October;  and the Netherlands delegation will be pleased to  furnish all details which the delegates at this Con-  ' ference, or the governments they represent, may  desire. For the same reason, the expert circles  concerned in the Netherlands are following with  -.89 -   II-5  close attention the scheme for an international so-  cial science research centre.
(108) The human factor seems to appear again in  connexion with the proposed reform of the Execu-  tive Board, which one of the Member States has  suggested. This is not the moment, Mr. President,  to expatiate on the arguments for or against that  proposal. I may, however, say here that, faced  with the alternatives of a Board composed of repre-  sentatives of Member States and thus called upon to  supervise, on behalf of thase States, the execution  of the General Conference's decisions, and a Board  consisting of distinguished representatives of the  various cultures of the world called upon to advise  the Director-General in drawing up the Organiza-  tion's programme, the Netherlands delegation  would opt decisively for the second. It would avoid  the danger of converting the Executive Board into  a committee of diplomatic representatives, who  are often fettered by their governments' directives.  On the other hand, it would enable the Board to be-  come "par excellence the adviser of the Director-  General, with the duty of planning with him the  general lines along which international co-operation  in the fields of education, science and culture  should develop.
(109) Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, these  few remarks, which have by no means exhausted  the subject, have illustrated the way in which my  Government intends to collaborate with Unesco.  May that collaboration help Unesco to accomplish  the great task before it.
(110) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of the  Netherlands and call upon the delegate of Haiti.
(111) Mr. Adelphin TELSON (Haiti) - (Translation  from the French) Mr. President, Mr. Director-  General, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the  Haitian delegation, I have the honour to convey the  greeting of the Republic of Haiti to the members of  this august assembly. I could not fail to emphasize  the great satisfaction that we, the delegates of Haiti  feel at participating in the Conference here in this  city, which is the heart of France and is often  called the capital of the world. In fact, what setting  could be more appropriate than Paris, the meeting  place of the civilized world, for your discussions  on how man's destiny should be worked out regard-  less of race, origin, sex and religion? At a time  when the world is a prey to every kind of anxiety,  when peoples in so many parts of the earth are be-  wildered and vainly searching for a way to mutual  understanding, when many assemblies, despite all  endeavours, have still not succeeded in finding the  compromise that will put an end to conflict and  war, Unesco's efforts. to raise humanity to a new  level through the development of man's intellect -  his most valuable faculty - merit all praise.
(112) We have, here around us, a concrete exam-  ple of what culture can do to enhance the prestige  and greatness of a people. France was, but re-  PLENARY MEETINGS  cently, laid prostrate; yet her spirit was not bro-  ken. On the contrary, she rose again, great and  triumphant, with the help of science and her inex-  haustible spiritual resources. And - why not say  so? - she has emerged victorious from her defeat.  For her commerce and industry, thanks to the  courage and moral force of her people, have once  more begun to send the produce of her soil and of  her genius to every corner of the earth. Her con-  temporary writers, who continue to safeguard her  reputation as the daughter of Reason - for the  world her finest title - are all bearing resounding  witness to the strength of the spriit, that French  spirit which remains, as ever, the advance guard  of our civilization.
(113) We have here concrete proof of the fact that  culture, today as in the days of the Greeks and the  Romans, constitutes the basis of civilization. Unes-  co has thus been wisely inspired inputting forward,  for the stability of our world, a system based on  the education of man; for to educate the individual  is to give him the means of fighting for the en-  thronement of peace. The more we seek to improve  man and enable him to rise higher, the more we  shall contribute to the birth of generous feelings,  and consequently to the eradication of the causes  of misunderstanding among nations.
(114) Wherever the mind - that spark of the Di-  vine - has been cultivated and attuned to Reason,  it has always yielded fruitful and lasting results.  It creates that balance which enables man, master  of himself, to conquer matter and put it to wise  uses. It is that balance, that serenity which is  lacking in our unstable world of today. Science  having now reached its highest degree of evolution,  men should use the facilities it has placed at their  disposal to make life more comfortable and more  humane. If that is not done, it is because ambition,  the desire to dominate, and every sort of rivalry  have caused certain statesmen to lose sight of  where the real interests of their communities lie.  Blinded by harmful theories, they refuse to make  the concessions required to restore the harmony  that is essential to the good ordering of world af-  fairs. It is therefore imperative, in all sectors,  to transform and broaden man's outlook, so that he  can bring humanity to bear onhis view of the world.
(115) For these reasons we regard as an invalu-  able contribution to world peace the task of educa-  ting the masses which Unesco has undertaken with  such perseverance and devotion in all countries of  the four continents where social and cultural pro-  gress is still at its early stages. That is a pro-  gramme which can reveal, tothe illiterate masses,  ideas and principles that will enable them to be of  use to themselves and to their neighbours. Here I  am glad to be able to refer to the pilot project  which is being carried out in Haiti, in the pictur-  esque surroundings of Marbial near Jacmel, one of  our main towns. Admittedly the results are not yet  what our Government had hoped for, considering  the efforts it has put forth; but we are none the  - 90 -   PLENARY MEETINGS,  less grateful to Unesco for having chosen our coun-  try to serve as a model for other human communi-  ties. It is to be hoped that, in agreement with the  Haitian Government and within the limits of exist-  ing agreements, Unesco's qualified representatives  will continue to bring to the Marbial project that  conscientious devotion which has already evoked  so warm a response from the population of the  region.
(116) The task is not an impossible one. Mexico,  thanks to the devoted work of its educationists, has  already succeeded in reducing illiteracy among its  people to a notable degree. We are glad to take  this occasion to congratulate these Mexican pio-  neers, as well as all those who, at the national  level, are doing their utmost to achieve Unesco's  aims. And here we could not fail to pay a well-  deserved tribute to our eminent Director-General,  Dr. Jaime Torres Bodet, of whom we Latin Amer-  icans are justly proud, and whose outstanding po-  sition in this distinguished assembly bears witness  to the pre-eminent place occupied by Mediterranean  culture, with its world-wide influence.
(117) Apart from these efforts, mention might al-  so be made of Unesco's fruitful undertakings with  a view to training future leaders of humanity. A  considerable number of fellowships have been  granted to students, to enable them to improve  their knowledge of the arts and sciences. These  young research workers, once they have been  trained and have returned to their countries, are  ardent promoters of Unesco's ideals. They whole-  heartedly accomplish a worthy mission by spread-  ing ideas that are in the best sense progressive  and by working, in their various fields, to achieve  the purposes of your Organization - an Organization  which is, by the way, ours too, since our delegate  Mr. Léon Laleau, who is among us here as Haitian  Minister in London, signed the Unesco Constitution  “on behalf of our country. ;
(118) It is clear that Unesco is the champion of a  more humane civilization, built on understanding  and solidarity between men - itself a guarantee of  peace. All our efforts should therefore be directed  to remoulding the minds of men, to strengthening  their love of peace and their idealism. That is  what the founders of the Organization had in mind  when they laid down, in these unforgettable terms,  the principles of universal peace:  That since wars begin in the minds of men, it  is in the minds of men that the defences of  peace must be constructed; *  That ignorance of each other's ways and lives  has been a common cause, throughout the his-  tory of mankind, of that suspicion and mistrust  between the peoples of the world through which  II-5  their differences have all too often broken into  war;  That the great and terrible war which has now  ended was a war made possible by the denial of  the democratic principles of the dignity, equal-  ity and mutual respect of men, andby the prop-  agation, in their place, through ignorance and  prejudice, of the doctrine of the inequality of  men and races; that the wide diffusion of cul-  ture, and the education of humanity for justice  and liberty and peace are indispensable to the  dignity of man and constitute a sacred duty  which all the nations must fulfil in a spirit of  mutual assistance and concern;  That a peace based exclusively upon the politi-  cal and economic arrangements of governments  would not be a peace which could secure the  unanimous, lasting and.sincere support of the  peoples of the world, and that the peace must  therefore be founded, if it is not to fail, upon  the intellectual and moral solidarity of man-  kind. "
(119) By these solemn, noble declarations, the  creators of our Organization have laid the basis  for our work in the cause of a better and peace-  ful world. To mould the minds of men so as to  enable them to discuss their problems, come to  agreement and be guided by the same principles,  despite possible conflicts of interest - is not this  the best way of inviting them to meet on common  ground, for the triumph of peace and friendship?  Is it not, too, the surest way of obtaining fruitful  co-operation among the peoples for the preserva-  tion of the spiritual and moral heritage of mankind?
(120) Our Organization has understood this sowell  that it has made its objective the development of  the mind in every field and clime, to enable it to  preserve and constantly improve a civilization  founded on the principle of human dignity. All of  us, whether our nations be large or small, must  act on these lines, if we are to remain faithful to  Unesco's ideal precepts. The Republic of Haiti,  which a great Frenchman called "the outer beacon  of Latin culture in the American Mediterranean",  will not fail in this task; modelling itself on the  American and European countries that are the  generous champions of culture and true friendship,  and whose representatives nobly defend your ideal,  it will strive always to be worthy of that eloquent  title.
(121) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Haiti, with whose remarks we shall close this  morning's meeting.  The meeting rose at 12. 40 p. m.  SY