II-21  proposal is before the meeting. Are there any  other observations? We now pass to the vote.  Those in favour of the proposal? Those against?  Abstentions? 38 have voted in favour, 3 against,  with 8 abstentions. The proposal is adopted.
(38) Now the draft resolution which is contained  in Annex II to document 7C/ADM/47 (page 5) is  before the meeting. This is a resolution of this  General Conference requesting the Executive  PLENARY MEETINGS  Board to consider the advisability of amending  Section XIX (Rules 103 to 106) of the Rules of Pro-  cedure of the General Conference. Are there any  observations? Those in favour please raise your  hands. Those against? Abstentions? The propo-  sal is adopted unanimously.  The meeting rose at 4, 40 p.m.  TWENTY - FIRST PLENARY MEETING  Monday, 8 December 1952, at 10 a.m.  President: Mr. S.M. SHARIF (Pakistan)  CONTENTS  Adoption of the amendments to the Rules of Procedure  of the General Conference necessitated by the adop-  tion of the system of biennial sessions of the Gen-  eral Conference  Consideration of the resignation of the Yugoslav dele-  gate from'the Executive Board. . . - . . . ..…  ADOPTION OF THE AMENDMENTS TO THE RULES OF  PROCEDURE
(1) The PRESIDENT - The twenty-first plenary  meeting of the General Conference is called to  order. I request the Chairman of the Administra-  tive Commission to present the report of the Ad-  ministrative Commission on amendments to the  Rules of Procedure necessitated by the adoption of  the principle of biennial sessions of the General  Conference, which is contained in document 7C/  ADM/ 48.
(2) Mr. Luther EVANS (United States of America),  Chairman of the Administrative Commission --Mr.  President, fellow delegates, you have document
7C/ADM/48 before you. Some of these amend-  ments must be adopted before we can proceed to  the nomination and election of members of the  Executive Board. The Administrative Commis-  sion regrets that it has to appear before you a  number of times with fragments of its report; but  this has been necessary in order that the business  of the Conference might proceed in an orderly fa-  shion.  wll ere Te Le 0 226
(3) The first item is an amendment to Rule 16 of  the Rules of Procedure, which relates to extra-  ordinary sessions of the General Conference; this  would permit the General Conference, the Board  or the Member States to suggest items for the  agenda of an extraordinary session. I think this  is a necessary change, in view of the decision we  made that the General Conference, the Board, or  one-third of the Member States may request the  convocation of a session. It is obvious that who-  ever requests it should be able to suggest what the  agenda should be.
(4) Mr. President, do you want to approve this  step by step, or would you like me to present the  whole report? .  -(5) The PRESIDENT - The whole report, and the  General Conference resolution separately.
(6) Mr. Luther EVANS (United States of America),  Chairman of the Administrative Commission - The  next item is a change in Rule 95. The suggested  amendment merely changes the number of mem-  bers of the Board to be elected at each ordinary  session from six to ten, following the amendment  - 226 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  to the Constitution, adopted the other day, which  increases the number of members of the Board  from 18 to serve three-year terms, to 20 to serve  four-year terms.
(7) May I call your attention at the same time to  the insertion of a Rule 95 bis to correspond to the  constitutional amendment you adopted designed to  stagger terms of office and prepare the way for  the election of ten members at each ‘session of the  Conference. You will note that, according to the  first paragraph, the terms of office of the six  members who were to retire in 1953 are extended  until 1954, or until the Eighth Session of the Con -  ference.
(8) In the second paragraph, we suggest that, of  the members who were elected in 1951 and who  would otherwise retire in 1954, four are to retire  in 1954, thus serving three-year terms, and two  are to retire at the Ninth Session, thus serving  five-year terms. This provision is necessary in  order to reach a system of ten members to be el-  ected at each session.
(9) The terms of office of the eight members to  be elected at this session including the two new  ones, shall expire at the end of the Ninth Session,  in 1956,
(10) The second draft resolution concerns pro-  cedures to be followed for bringing to the attention  of the General Conference nominations for vacan-  cies on the Executive Board; Member States are  invited to communicate names of candidates to the  Director-General, who will make that information  available tothe Chairman of the Nominations Com-  mittee and to the heads of delegations. This is  merely a procedural recommendation and does not  necessarily have to be complied with in order to  make nominations valid.
(11) To return to the suggested amendments to  certain Rules of Procedure, the first part of Rule
1 has to be amended to read: "The General Con-  ference shall meet in ordinary session every two  years". Rule 4 authorizes the Executive Board,  if a majority of Member States concur, to convene  the meeting at a seat other than that which was  fixed in the first place by the preceding session of  the Conference; the only change here is the dele-  tion of the phrase: 'in the course of the year".  Rule 5, in its amended version, allows the Con-  ference to meet in extraordinary session if it de-  cides to do so itself and not only if summoned by  the Executive Board; it also allows the Confer-  ence to meet at the request of at least one-third of  -the Member States. Rule 6 will read, in part:  "The Executive Board shall, before each session  of the General Conference, decide upon the list of  States, not Members of the United Nations or of  Unesco, which are to be invited to send observers  to that session". In Rule 10, concerning the Pro-  visional Agenda of the session and the Report of  the Director-General on the work of the Organiza-  tion, we substitute: ''since the last ordinary ses-  sion of the General Conference"! for "during the  II-21  year". In Rule 15, we suggest that the Provisional  Agenda shall be prepared by the Executive Board,  and not "drawn up'. The amendment to Rule 16  stipulates that the Provisional Agenda of an extra-  ordinary session shall consist only of items pro-  posed either by the body at whose instance the  session has been convened, or by the Member  States if it is they that have requested the convoca-  tion of the session. We propose to amend Rule 79  concerning voting rights of Member States, so  that it may correspond with the constitutional  amendment already adopted.
(12) It is the view of the Legal Committee, and  also of the Administrative Commission, that these  amendments are desirable, and that most of them  are absolutely essential; both groups join in re-  commending that you approve these changes.
(13) The PRESIDENT - This document is divided  into two parts: the report of the Administrative  Commission, and a draft resolution concerning  the election of members of the Executive Board.  I shall put Part I of this document, which is the  report of the Administrative Commission, before  the meeting for a vote. Are there any comments?  Observations? Will those in favour of this report  please raise their hands. Those against? Ab-  stentions? The recommendations of the Admini-  strative Commission are adopted unanimously.
(14) You have now to consider the draft resolution  contained in Part II of this document. Are there  any observations? Will those in favour of this  draft resolution please raise their hands. Those  against? Abstentions? {Adopted unanimously.  I now call upon the leader of the Yugoslav dele-  gation.  CONSIDERATION OF THE RESIGNATION OF THE  YUGOSLAV DELEGATE FROM THE EXECUTIVE BOARD
(15) Mr. Vladislav RIBNIKAR (Yugoslavia) -  (Translation from the French) Mr. President, the  Nominations Committee is to meet immediately  after this plenary meeting and before it does so I  want to make a short statement to the General  Conference on my own behalf and on that of my  delegation. :
(16) Having resigned from the Executive Board,  I now wish to notify the General Conference that I  confirm that resignation and that the seat I had the  hono - to occupy is vacant. I acted as I did for the  following reasons.
(17) The Unesco National Commission of Yugo-  slavia met in ordinary session on 28 October last,  a few days before the opening of the Seventh Ses-  sion of the General Conference, and among the in-  structions it gave to the Yugoslav delegation was  one to oppose the admission of Spain to Unesco, A  few days after Spain was admitted, in the circum-  stances known to us all, the Yugoslav National  Commission met again, in extraordinary session,  - 227 -
11-21  and unanimously passed a resolution, which I shall  not read now because we have already distributed  copies to all delegations here.
(18) As .you will have seen, the resolution takes  the form of an extremely strong protest against  Spain's admission to Unesco and also indicates ex-  plicitly the National Commission's approval of the  attitude adopted by the Yugoslav delegation at tte  Seventh Session of the Conference. It concludes  with the statement that the National Commission  will await the return of the Yugoslav delegation  and will then re-examine, with it, the question of  the Commission's future relations with Unesco.
(19) As you can see for yourselves, this is in our  eyes a much more serious issue than the resigna-  tion of a member of our delegation from the Exe-  cutive Board.
(20) On our return to Belgrade we shall faithfully  report all that transpired at the General Confer-  ence, after which the National Commission will  make its recommendations to the Yugoslav Govern-  ment. I cannot now forecast either the nature of  those recommendations or the Government's de-  cision. All I can say for the present is that the  Yugoslav delegation appreciates to the full its re-  sponsibilities alike to our country, to the Yugoslav  people, and to Unesco and the United Nations and  that we shall do our utmost at home, as we are  doing here, to avoid any step on our part that  might damage our Organization or aggravate the  crisis through which both Unesco and the United  Nations are passing.
(21) To revert to the subject of my resignation,  I should like to comment on two specific points.  The first arises in connexion with the now vacant  seat which I had the honour to occupy. It is the  duty of the General Conference to ensure that the  various cultures of the world are represented as  far as possible on the Executive Board. In prac-  tice, the Conference sets about meeting that re-  quirement primarily by seeking to achieve an eq-  uitable distribution among the countries belonging  to various large regions of the world. Now, while  in some instances the allocation thus made is  satisfactory, in others it is not. Within the same  geographical region there may exist cultures  which are completely different from one another  and even, in a manner of speaking, antagonistic.
(22) That is the position of my country and of the  region to which it belongs. The culture of the  peoples of Yugoslavia is very different from that  of their neighbours. Here I am, of course, using  the word "culture" in the broadest sense. I con-  sider that what makes a people's culture is not  merely either its cultural heritage from the past  or the degree of development attained by its pres-  ent-day scientific, educational and artistic insti-  tutions, but, in general terms, the ideological  flowering of the social system in force in that par-  ticular community. À culture is shaped by the re-  flections in law, ethics, customs, and so on, of  the community's human relationships. It is, I  PLENARY MEETINGS  think, in that sense that we can talk of a "socia-  list", as contrasted, say, with a "pre-socialist"  culture. Yugoslavia is the only socialist country  in Unesco and, to my mind, its culture cannot be  represented by any other country, as there is no  other with a comparable socialist culture. Thus  Yugoslavia's absence from the Executive -Board  will mean that socialist culture will not be repre-  sented at all on that body. That is the first point  I wished to make.
(23) My second comment relates to the letter sent  to Unesco two days ago by the Polish Ambassador  in Paris. I should not like it to be supposed that  the reasons which prompted my resignation bear  any resemblance to the arguments contained in  that letter.
(24) When I spoke in the general discussion on the  Director-General's Report, I touched on the ques-  tion of Spain's admission to Unesco and at the  same time I mentioned Poland. I spoke of those  countries which, while still regarded as Members  of Unesco, had by a natural process moved away  from the Organization, and as a result of their  isolationist policy refused to co-operate with the  other nations in scientific and cultural matters  or to implement, in their own territory, the basic  principles of the United Nations Charter and Un-  esco's Constitution - more particularly those pro-  claimed in the Universal Declaration of Human  Rights - because they do not sincerely subscribe  to the United Nations policy of peace. I drew at-  tention to the fact that these nations have been ab-  sent from Unesco for three years and suggested  that the explanation was a very simple one - Soviet  Russian imperialism and the aggressive policy  adopted by the self-styled socialist countries  which have become vassals of the U.S. S. R.
(25) The policy of the Yugoslav Government is  quite different: it is centred wholly on the United  Nations and aims at sincere collaboration with all  peace-loving countries. My attitude in resigning,  like the attitude of my delegation during the Gene-  ral Conference, was in no sense dictated by a de-  sire to make a sensational political demonstration;  it was untouched by any tincture of demagogy. We  were actuated solely by our anxiety to safeguard  Unesco's interests as we see them. It is for that  reason that I hope that no one will be ill-natured  enough to try and draw a parallel between the  Polish Government's letter and the terms of my  resignation. I should be very unhappy if anyone  were to suggest that my resignation and that letter  are all of a piece.
(26) The PRESIDENT - I call upon the delegate of  the Union of Burma.
(27) U BA GYAN (Union of Burma) - Mr. Presi-  dent and fellow delegates, I wish to move that the  matter of the Yugoslav resignation be put off until  next April, or until the extraordinary session of  the General Conference, whichever is later. The  - 228 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  Yugoslav delegate has stated that he wishes to  avoid any act which might hurt the Organization;  he has also distinguished his position from that of  Poland. In my humble opinion, Sir, if this resig-  nation is to be considered now, if the Yugoslav  delegate is to leave the Executive Board at this  time, the position of Unesco will, at least in the  eyes of-a few, be very much compromised.
(28) Therefore, if my friend Mr. Ribnikar could  reconsider his decision, at least at this time, and  if this Conference could agree to this proposal to  postpone until next April, or until the extraor-  dinary session, I think we should be doing a great  service to this Organization, which I firmly be-  lieve to be an Organization which, in the long run,  will bestow very great benefits upon the genera-  tions to come.
(29) The PRESIDENT - You have before you the  resignation of Mr. Ribnikar. The distinguished  leader of the Burmese delegation has proposed  that the General Conference should defer its de-  cision until the extraordinary session. I now call  upon the delegate of Turkey.
(30) Mr. Numan MENEMENCIOGLU (Turkey) -  (Translation from the French) Mr. President, my  dear colleagues, I have listened with very close  attention to the remarks made just now by the  leader of the Yugoslav delegation. My object in  speaking is to suggest that his arguments seem to  me to provide reasons rather for than against his  country's continuing to be represented on the Exe-  cutive Board, the need for which is clear from  every consideration he has adduced - the fact that  Yugoslavia is our only socialist country, the ques-  tion of regional representation and so on.
(31) I think therefore that we should not postpone  our decision but should ask our Yugoslav colleague  simply to withdraw his resignation, in which we  can see no point. As the representative of a coun-  try intimately connected and on terms of friend-  ship with Yugoslavia, I think I can ask the Yugo-  slav delegate not to deprive the Executive Board,  and Unesco's executive organ, of his country's  counsel. ‘
(32) That is my proposal and I hope with all my  heart that my Yugoslav colleague will give it his  serious consideration.
(33) The PRESIDENT - I call upon the delegate of  Yugoslavia.
(34) Mr. RIBNIKAR (Yugoslavia) - (Translation  from the French) Mr. President, I have been  deeply touched and moved by my colleague's  words, the more so as I know well that they were  addressed to my country and not to me as an in-  dividual. I must, however, say that for the pre-  sent I am not in a position to withdraw my resig-  nation. That is all I have to say. Thank you, Mr.  President.  II-21
(35) The PRESIDENT - I call upon the delegate of  Greece.
(36) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) - (Translation  from the French) Mr. President, we have listened  with very keen regret to what Mr. Ribnikar has  just said. My own country had the honour to pro-  pose Mr. Ribnikar as a member of the Executive  Board and I therefore move that, pending the re-  ceipt of a final reply from the Yugoslav Govern-  ment, Yugoslavia's seat remain vacant.
(37) The PRESIDENT - I call upon the delegate of  France. 3
(38) Mr. Charles LUCET (France) - (Translation  from the French) Mr. President, the French de-  legation was extremely anxious that Mr. Ribnikar  might find it possible to reconsider his decision.  All of us appreciate his personal contribution to  the work of our Organization and the value of his  country's assistance in our task. It is, however,  indisputable that some of Mr. Ribnikar's reasons  cannot but be accepted as substantial. Like the  Turkish representative, we would have been glad  if it had been possible simply to decline to accept  Mr. Ribnikar's resignation. In the circumstances,  we are in favour of the proposal just made by the  Greek delegate and we move that, until further  notice, Yugoslavia's seat on the Board remain  vacant,
(39) The PRESIDENT - I call upon the delegate of  Lebanon.
(40) Mr. Charles DAOUD AMMOUN (Lebanon) -  (Translation from the French) Mr. President,  ladies and gentlemen, it would appear that we are  all in agreement on the essential point that Mr.  Ribnikar's resignation should not for the moment  become effective. The Turkish delegate has right-  ly made the point that the presence of Mr. Ribni-  kar, and, through him, of his country, on the  Executive Board is indispensable to our task of  bringing together and safeguarding the various  cultures, using '"culture' in the broadest sense.  Mr. Ribnikar himself has said that, over and  above his responsibility to Unesco and to his  Government, he is conscious of his responsibili-  ties towards the organs of the United Nations as a  whole and to the ideals of international co-opera-  tion and peace. We share his feelings. We have  before us at the moment two definite solutions -  a proposal by the delegate of Burma that the ques-  tion of Mr. Ribnikar's resignation be deferred,  and a proposal for the postponement of the election  of a new member to the vacant seat, moved by the  Greek delegate and seconded by the delegate of  France.
(41) I venture to point out that, when he spoke to  us just now, Mr. Ribnikar said that he could not  reconsider his decision for the moment. Could we  - 229 -
11-21  not ask him to remain on the Executive Board until  the next session of the General Conference? By  then he may perhaps be in a position to decide in  full knowledge of all the considerations arising.  To avoid conflict with the provisions of Article 95,  on the election of members of the Executive Board,  the question of Mr. Ribnikar's resignation could  be included in the agenda of that Conference (this  explanation is not really necessary but may save  dispute later) and the resignation could then be  either rejected or accepted, the latter decision  implying automatically the filling of the vacancy  thus created. I hope, however, that the second  case will not arise but that, three or four months  hence, it will be possible for Mr. Ribnikar to con-  tinue on the Executive Board to its advantage and  that of Unesco as a whole.
(42) The PRESIDENT - I call upon the delegate of  India.
(43) Mr. H. S. MALIK (India) - Mr. President,  we have before us the resignation of Mr. Ribnikar.  I may first of all say that I believe we should all  very much like him to reconsider his step, so that  the Organization may continue to benefit from his  experience and advice, and from the contribution  that he has to make from that very important part  of the world. However, he has told us that he is  unable to withdraw his resignation.
(44) Concerning the proposal that the seat be kept  vacant, I do not think that this would be a decision  _on his resignation. We have, presumably, to de-  cide today whether we accept it, refuse to accept  it, or defer it. For that reason, Sir, I for one  would be in favour of the proposal put forward by  the distinguished leader of the Burmese delegation,  that the question of the resignation of Mr. Ribnikar  be deferred until the extraordinary session which  is to be held in April.
(45) The PRESIDENT - May I ask Turkey, Greece  and France whether they are willing to accept the  proposal of Burma, supported by India, or whether  PLENARY MEETINGS  they wish to maintain their own proposal? ...  Greece has accepted. Turkey has signified accep-  tance. France has accepted.
(46) The proposal before the General Conference  is that consideration of a decision on the resigna-  tion of Mr. Ribnikar be deferred until the extraor-  dinary session of the General Conference. Those  in favour of this proposal? Those against? Any  abstentions? The proposal is adopted by 54 votes  in favour, with 3 abstentions.
(47) The Nominations Committee will meet in  Room 4 immediately. Rule 29 of the Rules of Pro-  cedure lays down: ''The Nominations Committee  shall consist of the heads of all delegations en-  titled to vote in the Conference. The head of a de-  legation may designate another member of his de-  legation to attend meetings and vote in his place.  The representative of each delegation on the Com-  mittee may be assisted by another member of his  delegation." I call upon the head of the Brazilian  delegation.
(48) Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil) - (Translation from  the French) Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen,  I should like to make an announcement before we  rise.
(49) On 1 December, all members of the General  Conference received from the Government of  Brazil a proposal nominating Professor Osorio de  Almeida as one of the candidates on whom the  Nominations Committee is about to vote. A num-  ber of delegations have told me that, following re-  ceipt of a letter from a group of delegations, they  had understood that the Brazilian Government had  withdrawn that proposal.
(50) I want to make it clear that the Brazilian  Government has certainly not withdrawn its can-  didate and that it counts on its friends in this as-  sembly to support the nomination of a distinguished  scientist and a great humanist to represent this  Conference and Brazilian culture on the Executive  Board.  The meeting rose at 11.40 a. m.  - 230 -