11-19  quest, and in view of the slight difference between  the two figures, we agreed to accept the French  proposal for a ceiling of $19,000,000, that is to  say, instead of insisting on our own proposal, we  withdrew it in favour of that of France. Immedia-  tely after the temporary adjournment of the meet-  ing, a number of delegations proposed a compro-  mise figure of $18, 000,000. According to the in-  “ structions that we had received, we had no autho-  rity to support the new proposal for a ceiling of  $18,000, 000. I myself stated that the Japanese  delegation, although fully conscious of the gravity  of the situation and the need for a compromise so-  lution, could not support the proposal for eighteen  million dollars, and would therefore be obliged to  abstain when a vote was taken on it, but that we  maintained our original proposal.
(10) By that I meant that, since we had endorsed  the French proposal for $19, 000,000, we wished  to maintain that proposal, whatever the attitude  adopted by the French delegation. That was the  true meaning of the statement which I made from  the floor, and I am quite willing to admit that I  PLENARY MEETINGS  made a mistake in not speaking from the platform.  I am extremely sorry, Mr. President, that a lack  of clarity on my part should have given you the  false impression, for which I am responsible, that  there were only two proposals to be submitted to  the vote, namely the proposal for a ceiling of  $18, 000,000, and the proposal for a ceiling of  $20, 439, 104, as would have been the case, had we  withdrawn our motion for $19,000,000. That is  the explanation which I wanted to give today, and I  would request the President to see that the neces-  sary correction is made in the verbatim record.  Thank you, Mr. President.
(11) The PRESIDENT - The records will be cor-  rected accordingly. Does any other delegate wish  to speak? Is there general agreement with the pro-  cedure suggested in my statement?... I take it  that there is a general endorsement of the sugges-  ted approach to the problem. I now adjourn the  ‘meeting.  The meeting rose at 3.55 p. m.  NINETEENTH PLENARY MEETING  Monday, 1 December 1952, at 10 a.m.  President: Mr. S.M. SHARIR (Pakistan)  CONTENTS  Appointment of the Acting Director-General . .  Procedure tobe followed for the election of the Director-  General oh = alli Fa.  APPOINTMENT OF THE ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL
(1) The PRESIDENT - The nineteenth plenary  meeting is open. The General Committee of the  General Conference met on 29 November and de-  cided to convene this meeting and to place before  it two items for its consideration: the appointment  of an Acting Director-General, and the procedure  to be followed for the election of the Director-Gen-  eral. I shall take up the first item: appointment  of an Acting-General.
(2) The General Committee instructed me to place  the following resolution before the house:  "The General Conference,  Appoints Dr. John W. Taylor, Deputy Director-
220  General, as Acting Director-General, this appoint-  ment to have effect from the time at which the re-  signation of Mr. Torres Bodet becomes effective  until the appointment of a Director-General by the  General Conference at an extraordinary session. H
(3) This resolution is before the General Confer-  ence. Is there general agreement?... I take it  by your applause that this is adopted unanimously.  PROCEDURE TO BE FOLLOWED FOR THE ELECTION  OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL
(4) I shall now proceed to the second item. The  General Committee considered the question of the  - 220 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  appointment of a permanent Director-General and  discussed the procedure to be followed for this el-  ection, and I am to place before you the following  resolution:  "The General Conference,  Taking note of Article VI.2 of the Constitution,  Taking note of Rules 5, 6, 15 to 18, and 99 to 102  of the Rules of Procedure of the General Confer-  ence,  Taking note of Rule 52 of the Rules of Procedure  of the Executive Board,  Considering that the General Conference, at its  Seventeenth Plenary Meeting, decided to accept  with regret the resignation of Mr. Jaime Torres  Bodet as Director-General of Unesco,
1, Decides that the resignation of Mr. Jaime  Torres Bodet from the post of Director-General of  Unesco shall take effect from midnight on Monday,
2. Instructs the Executive Board to take the  necessary steps, in accordance with Rule 52 of its  Rules of Procedure, to invite Member States to  suggest to it the names of persons who might be  considered for the post of Director-General;
3. Invites the Executive Board, as established  after the close of the Seventh Session of the Gene-  ral Conference, to proceed to the choice of a can-  didate in conformity with the provisions of Rule 52  of its Rules of Procedure;
4. Instructs the Executive Board, as established  after the close of the Seventh Session of the Gene-  ral Conference, to convene in due course an extra-  ordinary session of the General Conference, for  the election of the Director-General. "
(5) This resolution is now before you. I shall ask  Sir Ronald Adam, the Chairman of the Executive  Board, to explain to you the foreseeable time-table  implied in this resolution.
(6) Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom), Chair-  man of the Executive Board - Mr. President, fel-  low delegates, if this General Conference instructs  the Executive Board to act under paragraph 2, we  should be able to send the letters to Member States  tomorrow. We propose to give Member States two  months to reply - that is, answers should be in by
2 February. It will then be for the new Executive
11-19  Board, as elected by this Conference, to take fur-  ther steps, and they are problematical. It will  probably be necessary to allow an extra month  from 2 February, because all Member States may  not reply at once and reminders may have to be  sent out. Again, certain details in the curricula  vitae may have to be checked, and the new Execu-  tive Board will probably not be able to meet before  early March,
(7) The Board, having made up its mind, has to  send out the agenda thirty days before an extraor-  dinary session of the General Conference can be  held. That would bring us to early April; but I  think it is advisable not to make anything more  than a general guess, because it may take more  time. I think, however, we should be able to hold  the extraordinary session in April or, at the lat-  est, May.
(8) The PRESIDENT - Are there any observations  on this resolution?... I take it that this is adop-  ted unanimously? ... Adopted. I now call upon -  Mr. Taylor.
(9) Mr. John W. TAYLOR (Deputy Director-Gen-  ral) - Mr. President, fellow delegates, about two  years ago I attended a Board meeting in my Uni-  versity in Louisville, Kentucky. I had been asked  by the Executive Board and the Director-General  of Unesco to accept the position of Deputy Direct-  or-General. I told my Board that with my back-  ground, no matter when a call like that came, I  felt that I should have to accept it, and I resigned  my charge at the University of Louisville.
(10) In my opinion noorganizationhas ever existed,  or is likely to exist, which can do the kind of thing  for the world that Unesco can do. I have complete  faith in our programme and in our future. I stand  before you humbly to take up the task thathas been  entrusted to me for this short time. I feel certain  that I can count upon all the members of the staff,  from the Directors to the Secretaries. I can only  thank you for the trust that has been placed in me,  and hope that I can discharge the duties that you  have placed upon me to your entire satisfaction.  The meeting rose at 10.25 a, m.  - 221 -