II-24 PLENARY MEETINGS  TWENTY - FOURTH PLENARY MEETING  Thursday, 11 December 1952, at [I a.m.  President: Mr. S.M. SHARIF (Pakistan)  CONTENTS  Consideration of the Report of the Budget Committee .  Consideration of the Report of the Administrative Com-  mittee. . . . 5 il  Consideration of the Report o  mission - . of «ev  CONSIDERATION OF THE REPORT OF THE BUDGET  COMMITTEE
(1) The PRESIDENT - The twenty-fourth plenary  meeting of the General Conference is called to  order. The first item on the agenda is the con-  sideration of the Report of the Budget Committee.  I call upon Mr. Düring, Chairman of the Budget  Committee, to present his report, which is con-  tained in document 7C/BUD/3.
(2) Mr. Ingemar DÜRING (Sweden), Chairman of  the Budget Committee - Mr. President, ladies and  gentlemen, I have the honour to present to you the  final Report of the Budget Committee, document
7C/BUD/3, with a Corrigendum and an Addendum.
(3) The first report was considered yesterday in  the General Committee and in the Programme  Commission and decisions were taken; so to some  extent this report is already obsolete - it is an ex-  cellent illustration of the ephemeral nature of  some of our working documents! Instead of the  Appropriation Resolution contained in the first re-  port submitted to you yesterday, we have a Cor-  rigendum, with the Appropriation Resolution in its  final form. The third part of the report is Adden-  dum I, a single-sheet document, which contains  some recommendations on the terms of reference;  I wish to comment briefly on that.
(4) You will see from the document that, as a re-  sult of our experience, we recommend a change in  the terms of reference of the Budget Committee.  We suggest that the Committee be called an Ad-  visory Committee; the reason is perhaps quite  obvious. The two main Commissions of this Gen-  eral Conference are the Administrative Commis-  sion and the Programme Commission, and the  Budget Committee has often felt that it would be  wise for it to be called an Advisory Committee,
240  Ear yma ei ey rym EE 243  f the Programme Com-  Le CE TE 247  thus emphasizing its character as a body advising  the two main Commissions.
(5) The second point is that we wish to broaden  the terms of reference, and that is indicated by  the addition of the word "Programme" in its name.  All those who have served on the Budget Commit-  tee this year and in previous years have expe-  rienced the difficulty of separating programme  matters from budget matters. It is extremely  difficult to keep strictly within the terms of re-  ference in the discussions, although we have al-  ways tried to keep strictly within those terms in  our recommendations, and if we regard it as an  advisory committee, I do not see any objection to  widening its terms of reference and calling it an.  Advisory Committee on the Programme and Bud-  get.
(6) We have also discussed the number of mem-  bers of this Committee. You will recall that it  has been:raised from 11 to 15 this year; it has  been suggested that, if we broaden the terms of  reference, it would be wise also to increase the  number of members in order to have a wider  representation on the Committee. Two reasons  were put forward during our discussions against  such an increase. First, we find that the present  number of members is ideal. A committee of 15  members can probably work more efficiently than  a bigger committee, and we have found it quite  sufficient to establish two or three small working  groups at the same time. The second reason is  that a bigger committee would cost more money -  and you know that the Budget Committee is always  susceptible to such an argument! Another disad-  vantage is, of course, that at this late stage of the  session it might cause some difficulties to have  nominations for more members than there are in  the present Budget Committee. The Budget Com-  mittee wishes to leave it entirely to the General  - 240 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  Conference to decide upon the number of members,  but our recommendation is that, for the present,  the Committee be limited to representatives of 15  Member States.
(7) You will find on the second page of the Adden-  dum some recommendations concerning the form  of the programme and budget. I wish to call your  attention to two recommendations which are new.  The first you will find in paragraph 4 (c), where  we recommend that information of a certain kind  should be provided, namely, a report on the ad-  justments made in the estimates for 1953-1954 in  accordance with paragraphs 5 and 6 of the Appro-  priation Resolution. We do not think that it would  be wise to add that report as an annex to the pro-  gramme and budget document, because in that case  such an information annex would have to be prepared  very early in 1954. I think it would be very use-  ful, however, for the future Budget Committee to  have such-information on the transfers and adjust-  ments made during the two years. It is the first  time we have had a two-year budget and it will be  an interesting experience to see how the whole  thing functions.
(8) The next point to which I should like to draw  your attention is the last paragraph on this page.  It is an invitation to the Executive Board to study  the possibility of budgeting publications and docu-  ments under one appropriation line with cross-  references to the relevant Departments. It is im-  possible for the Budget Committee at this session  to make a final recommendation on this question  because we have not had enough time to study it  carefully. The main reason for this recommenda-  tion is that it would facilitate a decision on whet-  her a manuscript should be published as a docu-  ment or a publication if money was provided under  one heading. The second reason is that it would  be easier to make comparisons from year to year  on the general output of and expenditure on publi-  cations. We therefore suggest that the Executive  Board should study this question.
(9) With your permission, Mr. President, I wish  to conclude with a few personal remarks. The  Budget Committee involves much drudgery and toil  and very prosaic work, but we are very happy to  see the close co-operation in this Committee be-  tween the representatives of Member States and  you, Mr. Director-General, and your collabora-  tors. I wish to say, on behalf of the Committee,  that we appreciate very much the spirit of co-  operation in which it has been possible to conduct  our business.
(10) The PRESIDENT - I thank the Chairman of  the Budget Committee for this Report. Are there  any observations on this Report? I call upon the  delegate of Belgium.
(11) Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium) - (Translation  from the French) Mr. President, I wish to raise  a point of detail. Should we adopt its Report, the  IT-24  Budget Committee would become an Advisory  Commission or Committee on the Programme and  Budget. We have already appointed the Budget  Committee for the Montevideo Conference, and I  should therefore be glad to know, first of all, whe-  ther the Committee as already formed is to re-  main in being and become an Advisory Programme  and Budget Committee. In that eventuality, I  wonder whether we should not perhaps designate  Member States to send programme and budget ex-  perts respectively to serve on this Advisory Com-  mittee. My impression is that, on the last Bud-  get Committee, State representatives were mainly  experts in budgetary technique, that is to say  treasury officials; with the possible exception of  the Chairman, there was hardly a member who  Was a programme as well as a budget expert.  Would there not be much to be said for having  seven programme and seven budget experts under  a Chairman familiar with both programme and  budget technique? This may be an over-simplific-  ation, in which case we could ask the States elec-  ted to the Budget Committee to decide whether  they would rather send a programme or a finan-  cial expert. That is the question I should like to  put, Mr. President.
(12) The PRESIDENT - Would the Chairman of  the Budget Committee like to reply to the question  of the delegate of Belgium?
(13) Mr. Ingemar DÜRING (Sweden), Chairman of  the Budget Committee - Mr. President, may I  briefly say that I find the suggestion excellent, but  I cannot see how it would be possible for us to de-  cide this. We elect 15 Member States, and their  governments will choose their representatives and  send them to the Committee. The only possibility  would be some kind of agreement, by correspon-  dence perhaps, but I cannot see how it could be  carried out in a practical way. That is the only  thing I have to say.
(14) The PRESIDENT - Are there any other ob-  servations? The Conference is required to ap-  prove the Appropriation Resolution, contained in  document 7C/BUD/3 Corrigendum, and the Appro-  priation Table. It is also required to approve the  terms of reference of the new Advisory Committee  suggested by the Budget Committee, and the form  in which the budget shall be presented in future.  Would you like to adopt the Report as a whole, or  would you like to consider these four specific pro-  posals separately ?
(15) Mr. W. HODSON (Secretariat) - Mr. Pre-  sident, I very much regret to say that in the rush  of preparing this table last night we made some  minor errors which are easy to correct. They  will not affect the totals or cause any difficulties  but I felt that these small corrections should be put  on record. They are as follows: in the Appropri-  - 241 -   IT-24  ation Table, under line 4.3 - Protection of Wri-  ters, Artists and Scientists - the figure 77, 655  should be corrected to read 83, 250 for 1953-1954;  the figure on the same line for 1954 should read
46, 202 instead of 40, 607. The line 4.4 - Dissemi-  nation of Culture - should read as follows: instead  of 576,056 the figure should read 570,461 for
1953-1954; for 1954 the figure should read 288, 943  instead of 294, 538.
(16) The PRESIDENT  rence may adopt the Report as a whole.  upon the delegate of Australia.  - If you agree, the Confe-  I call
(17) Mr. Charles J. A. MOSES (Australia) - Mr.  President and fellow delegates, I am afraid that it  is not the only correction that we shall have to  make. Yesterday we approved some figures under  the heading of Mass Communication which inclu-  ded, in column 3, Voluntary International Assis-  tance, a sum of $121,633 for 1953 and a sum of  $123, 732 for 1954. Overnight, these totals seem  tohave been mysteriously increased by some $9,000.
(18) I wish to speak on another matter which in  my opinion is important; if this is straightened  out at the next Conference, it would give the Gov-  ernments of Member States perhaps even greater  confidence in the Organization. Paragraph 6 of  the Appropriation Resolution reads: "The Direc-  tor-General is authorized to make transfers be-  tween appropriation lines, except that transfers  between parts of the budget, and transfers between  appropriations in Parts I and III, may only be  made with prior approval of the Executive Board."  It then goes on to say that in exceptional circum-  stances, the Director-General may act without the  Board. This authority is so general, it is so wide,  that it will be possible for the Director-General to  change completely the whole programme that has  been approved by this Conference. I am quite  aware of the fact that this authority has existed for  some years, but that does not alter the fact that  it is too wide. We have no right to give to any man  the power to change completely everything that has  been done by this Conference without any further  reference to it. If the Director-General uses  these powers which we are vesting in him, he can  nullify all that has been done by the working par-  ties and, in fact, by the Programme Commission  itself; our work over the last two or three weeks  can prove to be just a series of academic discus-  sions and a complete waste of time. I think I men-  tioned in my opening address that there should be  a more precise definition of the limits of authority  of the Director-General. Our delegation believes  that there must be some latitude; there should not  be a hard and fast programme that cannot possibly  be changed - the Director-General and the Execu-  tive Board should be able to make such changes as  circumstances may require - but we should not  hand over complete authority to change the whole  of our work.  PLENARY MEETINGS
(19) We consider that, at the next session of the  General Conference, the Executive Board should  submit for approval an amendment to this para-  graph defining precisely the limits of authority de-  legated to the Director-General, and to the Direc-  tor-General acting in consultation with the Execu-  tive Board. This could well take the form of an  authorization to approve transfers between the  appropriation lines within one of the programme  divisions, for example, up to ten per cent in any  one year, and to approve transfers between the  various divisions of Part III, for instance, of five  per cent. This does not sound much - although  five per cent could well amount to $60, 000, trans-  ferred by the Director-General without reference  to anybody, even the Board - but at least it would  be some limitation of the wide powers that exist  today.
(20) There should be a further definition of the  authority of the Director-General to act in con-  sultation with the Board; this authority could very  well be much wider than that of the Director-  General to act alone. As it is, the powers of the  Director-General are so wide and so sweeping  that he can veto almost anything that has been de-  cided by this Conference. Therefore I submit,  ladies and gentlemen, that this is a question which  the Conference should seriously consider at its  next meeting. I do not wish in any way to hamper  the work of the Director-General, or the Director-  General acting with the Executive Board; but  their powers should not be so sweeping as they  are now.
(21) The PRESIDENT - Are there any more com-  ments? If you agree, ladies and gentlemen, the  Conference may now adopt the report as a whole,  giving its approval to the Appropriation Resolution  and the Appropriation Table, the terms of refer-  ence of the new Committee, and the form of the  budget.
(22) Mr. Charles J. A. MOSES (Australia) - What  about the figures?
(23) The ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL - Mr.  President, the budget section is now checking the  figures in the Mass Communication line.referred  to by the delegate of Australia, and we will shortly  have a report thereon.
(24) The PRESIDENT - I now ask you to approve  the Appropriation Table, subject to the necessary  correction of statistical data suggested by the  Australian delegate.
(25) We shall now take the vote.  of the adoption of the report?  Abstentions ? ;  The proposal is adopted: 50 in favour, with 5  abstentions.  Those in favour  Those against?  - 242 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  CONSIDERATION OF THE REPORT OF THE ADMINIS-  TRATIVE COMMISSION
(26) The PRESIDENT - The next item on the  agenda is the report of the Administrative Com-  mission. I call upon the Rapporteur, Mr. Brandt  of Switzerland, to present the Report (document
7C/ADM/50(Rev.) and Addenda I and II).
(27) Mr. BRANDT (Switzerland), Rapporteur of  the Administrative Commission - (Translation  from the French) Mr. President, ladies and gen-  tlemen, this year you laid on the Administrative  Commission a task of some magnitude, as is  shown by the number of meetings we have had to  hold - 28 in all - to deal with all the items in the  Administrative Commission's section - section V--  of the Conference Agenda. From this heavy pro-  gramme there emerged 30 resolutions, which you  have before you, as well as a set of Staff Regula-  tions and a set of Financial Regulations.
(28) Certain specific questions had to be referred  to working parties or other Committees and Com-  missions and discussed between them and the Ad-  ministrative Commission.
(29) I should like to take the present opportunity  of offering my sincerest thanks, in the name of  the Administrative Commission, to all the work-  ing parties, without exception, which have so con-  scientiously dealt with the various questions sub-  mitted to them. I should also like to thank the  heads of services, the Director-General, his im-  mediate assistants and the whole staff of Unesco  for the vast amount of work put in by them in con-  nexion with the Administrative Commission's pro-  ceedings. In this Conference free rein has been  given to criticism. While it was justified up to a  point, it has perhaps overstepped the mark in  some cases, and I think that now we have come to  the last day of our proceedings a sincere tribute  is due to the whole administrative staff of Unesco  for its contribution towards the accomplishment of  our task.
(30) The impressive quantities of documents you  have found on your desks will have enabled you to  appreciate the number of questions we have had to  deal with. Very briefly, we have pondered legal  questions in co-operation with the Legal Commit-  tee, financial questions - more particularly that  of the contributions of Member States, which is  annually the cause of somewhat heated discus-  sions - staff questions, questions connected with  the organization of our work, questions of geogra-  phical distribution, and questions relating to staff  welfare and mutual benefit associations for the  staff. Lastly, we were required to enquire into  our official and external relations with various  organs stemming from the United Nations, and, in  conclusion, the question of Unesco's Headquarters  gave rise to several lively debates in the course  of which Mr. André Marie, the French Minister  of Education, brought us some excellent news. We  IT-24  duly expressed Unesco's gratitude to the French  Government for its extremely generous gesture  towards Unesco.
(31) You could decide to discuss item by item  every section of the agenda covered by this volu-  minous Report. I hope, however, you will not do  so; you should, after all, be prepared to trust  your own Commissions. Accordingly, I have to  recommend in the name of the Administrative  Commission that this document be adopted as a  whole by the General Conference without going  into details.
(32) In the case of one or two items a few small  clerical or typing mistakes may have crept in dur-  ing the last-minute rush; for these you must ex-  cuse the Secretariat and the Commission itself,  both of whom have been obliged to work under quite  abnormal conditions.
(33) I should like next to submit for the General  Conference's approval two Addenda: Addendum I  affects the English text only and is concerned  merely with a question of typographical reproduc-  tion. Addendum II has been distributed to you  today and reads as follows:  "The General Conference,  Having considered the possibility of applying to  Member States in arrears in the payment of their  contributions penalties other than that specified in  Article IV. 8 (b) of the Constitution;  Instructs the Executive Board to consider ap-  propriate action, with due regard to the prepara-  tory meetings of the Organization and precedents  established in other Specialized Agencies;  Instructs the Executive Board to prepare, for  submission to its Eighth Session, any draft deci-  sions and amendments to the Constitution that it  might deem appropriate, and to communicate such  draft amendments to Member States in accordance  with Article XIII, paragraph 1, of the Constitu-  tion."
(34) In conclusion, I have the honour to request  the adoption by the General Conference of the Re-  port contained in document 7C/ADM/50(Rev.) and  the Addendum I have just read to you.
(35) The PRESIDENT - I thank Mr. Brandt, the  Rapporteur, for his Report and should like to as-  sociate myself with the tribute he has paid to all  those, including. the Budget Committee, who have  collaborated in the preparation of this document.  I call upon Mr. Lucet, the delegate of France.
(36) Mr. LUCET (France) - (Translation from  the French) Mr. President, I too should like to  begin by thanking the Rapporteur of the Adminis-  trative Commission for the excellent report he has  just presented. We all know how ‘important and  difficult the work of his Commission has been and  the Report shows that it has been well done. My  purpose in taking the floor is primarily to con-  gratulate the Rapporteur and certainly not to make  any criticisms of the draft as it stands. I have  - 243 -   IT-24  asked to speak merely because you have before  you a resolution - document 7C/DR/106 - presen-  ted by the French delegation. That resolution can  only be adopted if, as I shall seek to make clear  to you, we make an exception to the Financial  Regulations reproduced in Annex III, that is to say  to the passage in paragraph 3 of Article IV read-  ing "... The balance of the appropriations re-  maining unobligated on the last day of the financial  period to which they relate, after deducting con-  tributions from Member States for the same finan-  cial period that remain unpaid on the last day of  following financial period, shall be surrendered  as follows:  for Member States, etc.  for Member States, etc.
(37) The French delegation is moving firstly, not  that that Article should be amended, but that a de-  parture from it be authorized as an exceptional  measure. I may mention that a similar practice  has often been followed at previous General Con-  ferences. Our proposal is that part at least of the  final unobligated balance should not be returned to  the Member States, for the following reason.  Going through the reports of the Programme Com-  mission and working parties we found a resolution  on Unesco University Courses for which, unfor-  tunately, no provision could be made although  everyone was agreed on the great importance of  the project. Document 7C/PRG/37 contains a re-  port by the joint working party of the Programme  Commission, which was adopted unanimously and  which concludes by saying:  ".... there is unanimous agreement that the  Unesco University Courses are in themselves a  highly valuable project that should be restored to  the Unesco programme as soon as the situation  permits. It therefore recommends most strongly,  that the Secretariat should be directed to retain  the University Courses in the forefront of its at-  tention, and to profit by the experience gained in  the courses operated under the 1952 programme,  with a view to re-establishing the project as soon  as funds can be made available."
(38) Our feeling is that it may not be necessary to  wait for the next Conference but*that we may be  able forthwith to finance the University Courses  from any balance remaining from the 1952 budget.  Without wishing to labour the point, I feel sure you  are all aware of the extreme importance of these  courses; as has been pointed out, they are per-  haps Unesco's sole means of direct contact with  foreign universities, Unesco-sponsored teams of  experts in various branches of learning being sent  there to teach special techniques under the aegis  of Unesco. Missions of this kind are already op-  erating in a number of countries, such as the ex-  periments now proceeding in Venezuela and Paki-  stan, to name only two. If, notwithstanding the  regrets expressed by the Conference, means were  not found of financing the courses, they would  cease abruptly at the very moment when they  PLENARY MEETINGS  are beginning to produce excellent results,
(39) It is for that reason that we ask that, if there  is any balance in hand at the end of the 1952 finan-  cial year - which we cannot know before 31 Dec-  ember - part of it should be used, exceptionally,  for the priority financing of this project.
(40) You have the resolution contained in docu-  ment 7C/DR/106 before you. I should, however,  like to say that the French delegation is agreeable  to a minor amendment of the text as it stands. It  now reads:  "The General Conference authorizes the Direc-  tor-General, exceptionally, notwithstanding the  provisions of Article 4.3 of the Financial Regula-  tions, to allocate any balance ..."  We should be agreeable to changing the French  text to read:  ". ... le reliquat réel qui pourrait eventuelle-  ment apparaître sur les crédits."  The corresponding new wording in English might  be:  "to allocate any actual, as distinct from nominal,  balance..."  The object is to make it clear that this can only be  done if there is an actual cash balance. We must,  of course, make due allowance for Unesco's regu-  lar money requirements and for the amount, not  predictable with any precision at the moment, of  unpaid contributions. We hope, however, that  there will in fact be a surplus - naturally if there  is no surplus our resolution will be pointless -  and if there is a surplus I shall ask you, firstly, to  approve the suggested exceptional departure from  the Financial Regulations and, secondly, if you  see fit, to agree in principle to the allocation pro-  posed for the University Courses.
(41) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  France and call upon the delegate of the Nether-  lands.
(42) Mr. F. BENDER (Netherlands) - Mr. Pre-  sident, fellow delegates, the Netherlands delega-  tion would like to begin by stating that, in prin-  ciple, we look favourably upon this resolution.  We also have regretted that this important project  had to be taken out of the Budget Estimates, but  we find it a little difficult to accept the resolution  as it is now. Other projects have been taken out  of the Budget Estimates, and it seems to us some-  what arbitrary to select this one. Moreover, we  do not know exactly, at this moment, the financial  consequences of such a resolution; we do not know  whether there will be a surplus on paper or a real  surplus.
(43) I should therefore like to suggest a slight  amendment to the resolution originally proposed.  The first part concerning the recommendation of  the Working Party to restore the project would  remain unchanged. The second part would be  amended to read:  "The General Conference authorizes the Direc-  - 244 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  tor-General, in consultation with the Executive  Board, to allocate any actual balance of the appro-  priations for the 1952 financial year remaining un-  obligated at 31 December, to finance exceptionally,  and notwithstanding the provisions of Article 4.3  of the Financial Regulations, certain Priority A. 1  activities of the Proposed Programme and Budget  Estimates for 1953 and 1954, and to give the above  recommendation of the Working Party on Exchange  of Persons special consideration."
(44) We thus give the Director-General and the  Executive Board a little time to reflect on the  matter and to see what can be done and we indi-  cate that, if at all possible, we will do it. This  would be wiser, I think, than to decide immediate-  ly to do it now, in the form suggested by the hon-  ourable French delegate. Therefore, Mr. Presi-  dent, I have the honour to move this amendment to  the resolution. E
(45) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of the  Netherlands and call upon the delegate of the Uni-  ted Kingdom.
(46) Sir Ben Bowen THOMAS (United Kingdom) -  Mr. President and fellow delegates, I rise to sup-  port the amendment just made by the delegate of  the Netherlands, which in principle, meets the  point that is also contained in the resolution that  has been moved by the delegate of France. On be-  half of my own delegation and many others, I wish  to say that we believe this project to be worth  while, if it were practicable. At the same time,  I feel that we may be deceiving ourselves if we  entertain hopes that are too high for the realiza-  tion of this project in the course of the next two or  three years; all we have to do is to commit it to  the careful consideration of the Executive Board  and the Director-General.
(47) I have in mind two important and basic facts.  First, it is estimated that, of the contributions for
1952, 9.33 per cent will not be realized, as dis-  tinct from 7.8 per cent, the figure on which we  have been working; and secondly, quite important  bills from 1952 are still unpaid, one of the largest  of them, I believe, relating to expenses connected  with our new headquarters scheme. As people  who are concerned about paying our way, we should  be concerned that the debts honourably incurred in  the course of 1952 should be discharged before we  embark on new projects. I therefore hope that the  amendment proposed by the delegate of the Nether-  lands will be found to be acceptable to this Con-  ference.
(48) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of the  United Kingdom. I have several speakers on my  list: France, Switzerland, Pakistan and Cambodia.  I call upon the delegate of France.
(49) Mr. LUCET (France) - (Translation from  the French) Mr. President, I am, of course, in
11-24  complete agreement with the remarks of the Uni-  ted Kingdom delegate; this resolution can become  effective only if there is an actual surplus, as we  sought to make clear in our resolution. Nor have  I any objection to the Netherlands delegate's am-  endment. The project for which I have been plea-  ding is certainly not the only one of real value  which we have been forced to discard and, like  him, I hope that, if there is a really large balance  in hand, it may be possible to provide for all these  eminently desirable objects. I shall, therefore,  accept the Netherlands delegate's amendment with  one slight alteration if he is agreeable. The pas-  sage reads: "to give the above recommenda-  tion..." - I think he said - "special considera-  tion". If the delegate has no objection, I should  prefer the words "give ... special priority".
(50) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  France and call upon the delegate of Switzerland.
(51) Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland) - (Translation  from the French) Mr. President, ladies and gen-  tlemen, the Swiss delegation wishes to second the  French proposal with the amendments just sug-  gested. We consider it important to give priority  to the University Courses project as being one of  the few, if not the only one, of Unesco's direct ac-  tivities at the university level. Accordingly, we  feel that this project merits some degree of prio-  rity over other activities which we have regret-  fully had to place in abeyance, and we should  therefore be glad to adopt the French proposal  with the two amendments proposed by other dele-  gations and that of the French delegation as well.
(52) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Switzerland and call upon the delegate of Pakistan.
(53) Mr. Hussanali ABDUR RAHMAN (Pakistan) -  Mr. President, fellow delegates, the delegation of  Pakistan wishes to support the proposal made by  the delegation of France. We also feel very strong-  ly that the project of University Courses is a very  important project which should form a part of our  programme. I have very little to add to the argu-  ments which the delegate of France has already  admirably stated.
(54) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Pakistan and call upon the delegate of Cambodia.
(55) Princess PING PEANG YUNKANTHOR (Cam-  bodia) - (Translation from the French) Mr. Pre-  sident, now that France has accepted the amend-  ments that have been proposed, there is little for  me to add. I fully understand the French delega-  tion's preoccupation, but I also understand the  point made by the delegates of the United Kingdon  and the Netherlands. I have only one remark to  add - that when. Unesco has a balance in hand, it  would seem to be more logical to keep it and put it  - 245 -   IT-24  to the best use in Unesco's interest than to hand it  back and later seek supplementary appropriations  from Member States.
(56) The PRESIDENT -Ithankthe delegate of Cam-  bodia and call upon Mr. Hodson of the Secretariat.
(57) Mr. W. HODSON (Secretariat) - Mr. Presi-  dent, from a technical point of view, I think it is  desirable to interpret exactly the meaning of the  amendment moved by Mr. Bender. I wonder if he  would accept the following as an accurate inter-  pretation of his amendment: that 9.33 per cent  should be substituted for 7.8 per cent, as repre-  senting the percentage of contributions which must  be estimated as non-receivable for 1952, and  should be taken into consideration inthe utilization  of any surplus for the year 1952.
(58) The PRESIDENT - I shall ask the represen-  tative of the Secretariat to read the draft resolu-  tion as duly amended.
(59) Mr. M. JIMENEZ (Secretariat) - "The Gen-  eral Conference authorizes the Director-General,  in consultation with the Executive Board, to allo-  cate any actual balance of the appropriations for  the 1952 fiscal year remaining unobligated as of
31 December 1952 to finance, exceptionally, and  notwithstanding the provisions of Article 4. 3 of the  Financial Regulations, certain Priority À. 1 activi-  ties of the proposed Programme and Budget Esti-  mates for 1953 and 1954, and to give the above re-  commendations of the Working Party on the Ex-  change of Persons Programme special priority. "
(60) The PRESIDENT -  acceptable to Mr. Lucet?  Is this draft resolution
(61) Mr. LUCET (France) - Yes.
(62) Mr. W. HODSON (Secretariat) - The state-  ment which I made and which I think Mr. Bender  accepted is simply an interpretation of the phrase  "actual balance in the resolution that you have  before you.
(63) The PRESIDENT - Those in favour of the  resolution? Those against? Any abstentions? The  proposal is adopted: 48 in favour, with 6 absten-  tions.
(64) You will recollect that a little while ago the  Rapporteur, while introducing the Report, reques-  ted you to adopt it as a whole. I call upon the de-  legate of the United Kingdom.
(65) Sir Ben Bowen THOMAS (United Kingdom) -  Mr. President and fellow delegates, I think you  will agree that, before the Report is put to us  for acceptance as a whole, it would be fitting  and, indeed, necessary, that I should propose  this additional resolution to be incorporated in  “ (67)  PLENARY MEETINGS  the report of the Administrative Commission:  "The General Conference, recalling its decision  of 1 December appointing an Acting Director-  General, authorizes the Chairman of the Executive  Board to sign the contract of Dr. John W. Taylor  as Acting Director-General, providing for the pay-  ment to him of salary and allowances as provided  in the budget for the Director-General until such  time as a Director-General takes office."
(66) I am sure you would wish me to move that  that be included in our Report, and at the same  time to express our good wishes to Mr. Taylor for  the months of duty that lie immediately ahead  of him.  The PRESIDENT - Do you agree to adopt the  Report as a whole, incorporating the proposal  which has just been presented to you by Sir Ben  Bowen Thomas? . I call upon Mr. Brandt, Rap-  porteur, to clarify certain points.
(68) Mr. BRANDT (Switzerland), Rapporteur of  the Administrative Commission - (Translation  from the French) I want to draw the Conference's  attention to certain errors which have crept into  the text in two items. These require correction  both in themselves and in order to clarify the im-  plications of any vote taken.
(69) On page 7 of the text we deal in the following  terms with the American move for a change in the  structure of the Executive Board: "A motion by  the delegate of India deferring all action relating  to the reconstitution of the Board on a govern-  mental rather than on an individual basis to the  next ordinary session of the General Conference  was adopted by 25 votes, with 19 against, 1 ab-  stention and 14 absent." I should like a mention  to appear in the records of the General Conference  making it clear that such discussion will, of  course, take place according to the Rules of Pro-  cedure normally applying; that, I think, will sat-  isfy the American delegation.
(70) Next, regarding the Staff Regulations, Annex  II, page 5, I want to point out that paragraph 10.1  of the French text will require correction to bring  it into conformity with the Administrative Com-  mission's decision. The correct version of the  corresponding item in document 7C/ADM/15 of
1 September 1952, which the Commission adopted  for submission to you, is as follows: ''Le Direc-  teur général institue des organes administratifs au  sein desquels le personnel est représenté et qu'il  consulte en matière disciplinaire." This is the  text which should appear on page 5 of Annex II as  Regulation 10.1 instead of the text before you, the  latter having been reproduced as a result of the  wrong version having been sent forward.
(71) I think the Secretariat has one or two further  remarks to make on a few minor drafting changes.  Save for them, my task as Rapporteur is con-  cluded.  - 246 -   PLENARY MEETINGS
(72) The PRESIDENT - I thank the Rapporteur for  his clarification. I call upon Mr. Wilmot.
(73) Mr. H. WILMOT (Secretariat) - Mr. Presi-  dent, delegates, for the sake of clarity, I think,  we should make one or two small additions. In  document 7C/ADM/50, under the heading "Staff  Regulations", the second paragraph reads as fol-  lows: ‘The Commission endorsed the Working  Party's proposals except in respect to Article  Rat!  the Australian delegation. There was, in fact,  an amendment to that Article.
(74) In Section D.3 of this document, the para-  graph immediately above "(Resolution 13.2 Annex
1)" reads: "The Commission furthermore recom-  mends, by 16 votes to 0, with 2 abstentions, that  the General Conference adopt a resolution’, Here  we suggest the addition of: "regarding the gran-  ting of consultative status to the Confederation by  the Executive Board".
(75) Lastly, in Annex I, Section D, resolution
13.3 reads: "The General Conference invites the  Director-General to establish informal relations  with the seven non-governmental organizations  which have applied for consultative arrange-  ments ..." Here we must insert: 'too late to be  considered by the Seventh Session of the General  Conference, " and continue: ''pending considera-  tion of their applications by the General Confer-  ence at its Eighth Session".
(76) The PRESIDENT - Are there any more cla-  rifications or additions? Those in favour of the  adoption of the Report, incorporating the proposals  presented to you a little while ago by Sir Ben  Bowen Thomas? Those against? Abstentions?  The Report is adopted - 53 in favour, with 1 ab-  stention.
(77) I now call upon Mr. Hodson to explain the  budgetary point which was raised by the delegate  of Australia.
(78) Mr. W. HODSON (Secretariat) - Mr. Pre-  sident, it has been suggested that it would be ap-  propriate if the records of this meeting simply  contained an indication that I have discussed the  question raised by the delegation of Australia and  that that delegation is satisfied that no correction  need be made and indeed no error did occur onthat  point in the Appropriation Resolution.
(79) The PRESIDENT - Is this explanation accep-  table to the delegation of Australia?
(80) Mr. Charles J. A. MOSES (Australia) - Yes.  CONSIDERATION OF THE REPORT OF THE PRO-  GRAMME COMMISSION
(81) The PRESIDENT - We now proceed to the  Here we should insert: "las amended by
11-24  next item of the agenda: the Report of the Pro-  gramme Commission. I shall ask the Chairman  of the Programme Commission to present his  Report.
(82) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) - (Translation from  the French) Mr. President, the Report I have the  honour to submit to the Conference on behalf of the  Programme Commission, is, taken by itself, in-  adequate as an account 6f the Commission's work.  The Report contained in document 7C/PRG/40  needs to be supplemented by a series of other re-  ports adopted by the Programme Commission and  containing an account of the proceedings and deci-  sions of the various working parties which the  Commission found it necessary to set up in order  to carry out its task. To that set of documents  should be added the resolutions adopted by the  Programme Commission, relating either to the  amendments to the present Report or to the inclu-  sion in the ordinary programmje of projects later  recognized bythe General Conference as deserving  to be retained. The list of these projects was sub-  mitted to the Programme Commission yesterday,  and one item only failed to secure the Commis-  sion's approval,
(83) That means, that our scrutiny of the pro-  gramme was effected by the combined efforts of  the Programme Commission and the twelve work-  ing parties working closely together. I should like,  incidentally, to offer the Commission's thanks and  congratulations to all the working parties, their  Chairmen, their Rapporteurs and all the members  of the Secretariat who assisted in the study of the  programme.
(84) When going through the programme both  Commission and working parties were careful to  bear in mind the various recommendations made  as regards the budget estimates and the reductions  to be effected in the programme. The Programme  Commission profited greatly from the informed  advice and explanations of the programme experts,  of whom there were many in the working parties  this year.
(85) The programme now submitted for approval  by the Conference meets both the requirements of  the various branches comprised in Unesco's pro-  gramme and the special circumstances which  would seem to face the Organization this year.  The programme we are submitting is at any rate  realistic. Many difficulties had to be overcome  in achieving that result. The first difficulty I want  to stress was that, from the very first day, the  Programme Commission found its numbers so  heavily pruned that it was often difficult to secure  a quorum. In addition, some working parties were  forced to postpone meetings and then to hurry in  order to present their reports on the deadline, be-  cause it was frequently the case that their mem-  bers also belonged to other working parties and  were busy in other sub-committees. Here we  have an organizational difficulty arising from the  - 247 -
11-24  fact that not all delegations were sufficiently num-  erous to be represented on each of the various  working parties. The second difficulty: which  arose, but which was largely overcome by the  Programme Commission thanks to the collabora-  tion of the working parties, was the difficulty to be  foreseen as a possibility following the budget cuts.  The programme has been cut, but we can claim  that the one we have produced - and this is the  view of us all - is a realistic programme, that is,  one reduced to essentials even to the point of mu-  tilation. To appreciate this point you have only to  read the reports of the working parties, in every  one of which you will find expressed regret at the  exceptional circumstances in which Unesco's pro-  gramme has had to be worked out this year.
(86) Lastly, there is a point I wish to stress now  as it was in the forefront of our minds throughout  our examination of the programme proposed to us.  The indications are that Unesco's programme is  going further and further towards meeting the  major needs of the member countries - and, I may  say, of all of them, advanced and under-developed  countries alike. The Unesco programme contains  what is necessary to meet the needs of all coun-  tries. To my mind, all this emphasizes the uni-  versality of the programme we are submitting to  this assembly; and when I say universality I mean  it, for it is in no way diminished by the realistic  character of the programme. For the future it  would be well to make it possible for the Pro-  gramme Commission to study the programme from  the same angle as that adopted in framing it; the  abnormal conditions facing us this year prevented  the Programme Commission from doing so this  time.
(87) Those are the different points which I thought  I should put before you from the debates that took  place in the Commission when we were studying  Unesco's programme. And what I have the honour  to submit for your approval is this series of docu-  ments which form a single whole, the Report num-  bered 7C/PRG/40, the reports of the working  parties, and the Programme Commission's deci-  sions on the projects for inclusion in the ordinary  programme.
(88) The PRESIDENT - I thank the Chairman of  the Programme Commission for his remarks. We  all know how hard he and his collaborators, the nu-  merous experts and working parties, have worked  together to produce this Report. I should like to  extend to him and to his fellow workers our ap-  preciation and gratitude for the work that they  have done. The Report is now before you.  I call upon the delegate of Israel.
(89) Mr. Aviezer CHELOUCHE (Israel) - (Trans-  lation from the French) Mr. President, the Is-  raeli delegation has no desire to reopen the pain-  ful and acrimonious discussion which took place  in the Programme Commission on resolution  PLENARY MEETINGS
6.122 concerning the Regional Conference of Na-  tional Commissions in the Middle East to be held  in 1953. We wish, however, to express our warm  thanks to all the delegations which supported the  Israeli amendment and thereby reaffirmed yet  again their fidelity to one of the basic principles  of Unesco - close collaboration betweenthe peoples.
(90) The Israeli delegation is confident that, in  considering which Member States are to be invited  to that Regional Conference, the Executive Board  will conform more faithfully than it has done so  far to the principles laid down bythe working party  of the Sixth Session of the General Conference in  document 6C/PRG/ 32 and to the Board's own de-  cision on item 7.1 which was taken on 19 Novem-  ber 1951 during its Twenty-eighth Session and  which reads:  "The following decisions were adopted, it being  understood that, in conformity with the general  principles approved by the General Conference for  regional activities, such activities should not be  exclusive and other Member States should, as far  as possible, be free to send observers. "
(91) My delegation also feels sure that, when  choosing the site for the Regional Conference of  National Commissions, the Board will take due  account of the provisions of Rule 6, paragraph 3,  of the Rules of Procedure, adopted by this session  of the Conference, for the summoning of interna-  tional conferences.
(92) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Israel and call upon the delegate of Switzerland.
(93) Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland) - (Translation  from the French) Mr. President, ladies and gen-  tlemen, in the early stages of this Conference the  Swiss delegation gave its reasons for believing  that the Proposed Programme and Budget Esti-  mates submitted by the Director-General, Mr.  Torres Bodet, and unanimously approved by the  Executive Board, were what was needed to ensure  the stability of Unesco's work and a minimum ex-  pansion of its activities.
(94) Nevertheless, we have never disputed the  possibility of effecting certain economies, and at  the outset we drew attention to one such item of  potential saving which struck us as substantial  (the $293,000 for Montevideo). Thereafter we  joined loyally in the work of the Programme Com-  mission and its working parties to seek the econo-  mies required. This we did despite the mistrust  we felt in principle for the procedure adopted,  namely the fixing of a lowered budget ceiling, be-  fore we had systematically examined the projects  making up the programme. Our own view was that  the budget should be the resultant of that examina-  tion.
(95) We were nevertheless ready to change our  views at any time. Today, however, with the task  completed, we note with regret that the pro-  gramme submitted by the Commission is, on the  - 248 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  contrary, the resultant of the cuts made necessary  by the lowered ceiling which was fixed without the  Commission's having been given the opportunity,  which we would have thought reasonable, of ob-  taining enlightenment by examining the programme  in detail or taking a general view.
(96) Let me make myself quite clear: we pay  tribute to the substantial work accomplished by the  Commission, but it is obvious that, from the very  beginning, its task was stultified by an over-heavy  mortgage. Only yesterday, on the last day but one  of this session, there was systematic opposition  in the General Committee to the slightest attempt  at increasing the budget - and really the proposed  increase was very modest, it might even be des-  cribed as eleemosynary. And so we had the spec-  tacle of the whole Conference with heads bent be-  neath this lowered ceiling. In our view, such an  attitude, and the implications it holds, are at  variance with the hopes still awakened by Unesco  in our troubled and unhappy world and with its  mission of solidarity.
(97) For these reasons the Swiss delegation must,  with sincere regret, abstain from voting on the  adoption of the Programme Commission's Report,  as it previously abstained from voting on that of  the Budget Committee. Our abstention does not  signify indifference to Unesco's real and continu-  ing programme - quite the opposite - but our con-  viction that in future our sovereign body, the  General Conference, can and should make it pos-  sible for the programme presented to it by the  Director-General with the approval of the Execu-  tive Board to be studied under more favourable  conditions.
(98) To show that in uttering these reflections and  adopting this attitude we have a constructive aim  in view, our delegation yesterday lodged with the  General Committee a resolution seeking to im-  prove the procedure and working methods of future  sessions. To avoid overcrowding the agenda we  have not insisted on the immediate discussion of  this resolution, but we have received an assu-  rance - for which we thank you, Mr. President -  that it will be carefully studied by the Executive  Board and referred to the General Committee of  the Eighth Session.
(99) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Switzerland and call upon the delegate of the Neth-  erlands.
(100) Mr. H, J, REININK (Netherlands) - Mr. Pre-  sident, fellow delegates, in document 7C/PRG/40,  under the heading of "Protection of Cultural Pro-  perty in the Event of Armed Confliet", item 6.915  indicates that the General Conference instructs  the Executive Board to fix the date and place of  the Conference, should it be convened, with due  regard to any offers made by Member States con-  cerning the special facilities they would be pre-  pared to accord to Unesco to enable the Confer-
11-24  ence to be held on their territory". The Dutch  Government, as all of you now probably know, has  already taken to heart this question of the protec-  tion of cultural property in wartime. They started  to work on this question in 1939 - thirteen years  ago. We had the pleasure of seeing in the work-  ing party that all the delegations, even those which  had received no instructions from their govern-  ments, were willing to negotiate as soon as pos-  sible, so that we should be able to sign the Con-  vention that we all desire so very much. For that  reason, the Dutch Government and the Dutch dele-  gation would very much like to have included in  the records of this Conference that the Dutch  Government is, in principle, ready to give all the  necessary hospitality to a conference of this kind  convened by Unesco, and that funds will be avail-  able to make it possible for the Board and the  Director-General of Unesco to convene this con-  ference.
(101) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  the Netherlands and call upon the delegate of Mex-  ico.
(102) Mr. LELO de LARREA (Mexico) - (Trans-  lation from the Spanish) Mr. President, gentle-  men, in the discussion on the draft budget, the  Mexican delegation indicated its intention of voting  for the full sum of $20, 961, 458 requested by the  Executive Board and the Director-General for the  execution of Unesco's programme in 1953 and
(103) Our attitude was determined by three es-  sential considerations. The first was our convic-  tion that, as is stated word for word in the Intro-  duction to the Proposed Programme and Budget  Estimates, the proposed increases were the strict  minimum required to satisfy the most modest de-  mands for the continuity and normal development  of the Organization. In view of the disparity be-  tween our resources and the magnitude of the pro-  blems confronting us, Mexico cannot renounce the  only course to be recommended, namely to inten-  sify our efforts in the tasks entrusted to us.
(104) The second consideration to which we found  it necessaryto bow was that of the relationship be-  tween our contributions. The contribution brought  by each one of us, being proportionate to his pos-  sibilities, is in fact identical, since the scale re-  quires an equal effort on the part of him who gives  little because he has no surplus to spare and of  him who gives more because he has more, and  more to spare. All Member States have an equal  title in Unesco; the sole differences between us  are those arising out of our needs and the bare  realities of our problems. We know that to cut  away the superfluous is always a sound principle  for the general economy of our work, or of work  of any kind. Nevertheless, we take our stand un-  reservedly by the side of those who hold that to  suppress necessary items, when they really are  - 249 -
11-24  so, is a retreat and a betrayal and not a demon-  stration of mutual aid and whole-hearted co-  operation.
(105) Thirdly, 'we kept in mind the purposes for  which the United Nations Educational, Scientific  and Cultural Organization was founded in 1945.  Our Constitution states that respect for the dignity  of man, which requires the wide diffusion of cul-  ture and the education of humanity for justice and  liberty and peace, constitutes a sacred duty which  all nations must fulfil in a spirit of mutual as-  sistance and concern. And it goes on to say, fur-  ther on, that for these reasons the purpose of the  Constitution we signed on 16 November 1945 is to  develop and increase the means of communication  between our peoples and to employ these means  for the purpose of advancing, through the educa-  tional, scientific and cultural relations of the  peoples of the world, the objectives of interna-  tional peace and of the common welfare of man-  kind. ;
(106) Those were the principles by which we were  guided, both in the spirit and in the letter, and  those, briefly, are the considerations which ex-  plain our attitude. And after the net budget of  $18, 000, 000 proposed by the United Kingdom, the  United States, France, Holland and seven other  European countries had been approved by 29 votes  to 21, we all witnessed the great effort made by  many delegations, in the various Commissions, to  obviate, in the face of the severe budget cuts, any  reduction in the programme that could possibly be  avoided. This time the dominant note in the dis-  cussions, reflected in the resolutions adopted by  working parties and Commissions, has been one  never heard before in Unesco, a single note har-  ping on the reduction, limitation, cutting, postpone-  ment, or suppression of urgent items in our pro-  gramme. At the conclusion of the Conference we  are left with a Unesco different from the one we  found when we arrived. Day after day throughout  this Seventh Session the force of circumstances  has been compelling us to accept a shrunken and  enfeebled Unesco.
(107) Every hour of work has brought with it the  painful duty, accomplished against our will, of  forcing upon our Organization a movement of with-  drawal. There must be many delegations asking  themselves whether it would not have been better  to abandon the task altogether. We came to broa-  den the basis of Unesco; we have seen ourselves  forced to leave the task undone. It was the deleg-  ation of France that, at the sixteenth plenary mee-  ting, made the point that the budget voted was in-  opportune, coming as it does at a moment when  we have opened our doors to many fresh countries  and have already taken steps for the extension of  our work across the world. As Mr. Cassin put it  on that occasion, it is somewhat inconsistent to  vote a lower budget figure at the very time when  we are assuming a number of new duties. However  that may be, Mexico solemnly reiterates its faith  PLENARY MEETINGS  in the principles on which our Organization is  based, and being resolved to serve, to the utmost  of its means, the cause of peace and international  harmony through education, science and culture,  desires to make its position absolutely clear. My  delegation, for the reasons I have stated, will vote  against a programme that reduces Unesco's acti-  vities.
(108) We hope that in the not distant future  Unesco may be able to recover andregain its posi-  tion in world public opinion and that it may meet  with increasing efficacy the needs of a world in  which its activities are still an essential factor of  international co-operation for the peace and col-  lective security we so keenly desire.
(109) In accordance with Rule 84 of the Rules of  Procedure I ask that the vote on the programme be  taken by roll-call.
(110) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Mexico and call upon the delegate of Lebanon.
(111) Mr. Charles DAOUD AMMOUN (Lebanon) -  (Translation from the French) Mr. President,  ladies and gentlemen, at the end of a long Confe-  rence I should have been unwilling to take up a few  minutes of your time did I not feel impelled to say  something onthe heart-searching to which you are,  all of you, probably subject. There was once a  French politician, who was also a writer of the  first rank - Lamartine. In the various parliaments  of which he was a member he used sometimes to  be asked whether he sat on the Left, in the Centre  or on the Right. His way of indicating his inde-  pendence and lack of bias, his desire to rise above  party strife, was to reply: "The ceiling is my-  seat!" But in Unesco, the ceiling is the battle-  ground, the point where we meet and fight it out.  From the ceiling a programme has fallen and in  the fall it has naturally been shattered. We shall  vote for it, though obviously without pleasure.  But, arising from the comments and remarks we  have heard here, may I venture to make the sug-  gestion that we are faced with something graver,  something of profounder significance than the  question of the budget ceiling.
(112) To the delegate of Mexico, whose position I  perfectly appreciate, I would say that all of us now  have good reason to exercise that faculty of the  memory which consists in the power to forget.  What is serious is not that we should severally be  seeking, for reasons of economy or because of any  particular policy, to increase or cut our expendi-  ture: it is that even in this assembly, explicitly  concerned with things which do not give rise to  violent disagreement, we should be presenting to  the world a spectacle of internecine strife. It  would be serious that we should give to the free  world - a world which, as you yourselves have  noted, is becoming less and less free - the im-  pression that we are destroying ourselves because  there is no other to destroy us. It would be ser-  - 250 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  ious that we should forget that we have a respon-  sibility towards Unesco as part of the international  machinery for peace, and hence that we have a re-  sponsibility for peace itself.
(113) I trust most earnestly that, when we as-  semble again eighteen months or two years from  now, economic conditions will have changed and  we shall be able to meet with the common aim of  enhancing Unesco's power and its budget, and its  faith and its ideals. Then, perhaps, we may be  able to turn to those who at times may have felt  doubt about Unesco's objects and quote Racine's  famous couplet:  "En combattant pour vous nous sera-t-il permis  De ne vous point compter parmi nos ennemis, "
(114) But what we want first and foremost, what  should follow this Conference after all that has  passed is, beyond any manner of doubt, a kind of  unanimous act of faith on the part of all of us here  in the objects of Unesco. We shall be able later  on to acquire the means of action, but we must not  now disperse with any feeling of rancour or bitter-  ness on one side or the other. That is all I wished  to say in a few simple words.
(115) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Lebanon and call upon the delegate of France.
(116) Mr. Charles LUCET (France) - (Transla-  tion from the French) Mr. President, this appears  to be the moment for an examination of conscience,  or self-criticism if you prefer to put it that way.
(117) Before the vote is taken, the French delega-  tion wishes to say that it will vote for the pro-  gramme before us, but without enthusiasm and  with some regret. We had hoped for a better pro-  gramme. Admittedly, thanks to the co-operation  of all concerned, the present programme has been  appreciably improved. Some pretty vital items  which had seemed in peril have been retained.  Nevertheless, it is certain that the vote will be  passed with regret. How often in the course of  this Conference have we had to listen to those  words, ''with regret"! It was with regret that the  working parties had to cut the programme appro-  priations and, worst of all, it was with regret that  we were constrained to accept the Director-  General's resignation: you are all aware that in  French, superlatives are not needed to express in-  tensity of feeling.
(118) The programme, then, will be accepted by  us, but it is beyond dispute that throughout the  whole of this Conference we have been hampered  by this practice of the budget ceiling. The method  was probably useful at earlier’ sessions when the  draft was possibly not always fully worked out and  a brake had to be put on some over-ambitious pro-  posals. But I think that now we have acquired  some experience; an over-rigid ceiling fixed at  the start has in the end created for many of us a  kind of magical inhibition, a magic circle, a Val-  halla from which we cannot escape at any price
1-24  under pain of the most terrible consequences, a  sort of "mon plus ultra" to use the surrealist  jargon, or a variant of Giraudoux's "ideal line"  which must not be transgressed at any price. We  have been a trifle cramped in the over-rigid limits  we set for ourselves and we feel, therefore, that,  for the next Conference, this method should per-  haps be reconsidered. But, as the United States  delegate has well put it, something more will be  needed. First and foremost, we have to convince  public opinion in our countries that Unesco de-  serves a more generous budget. We have to give  our National Commissions the means to do their  work. Another thing we have to do —and this is  the essential point - is to find the extra-budgetary  resources to finance the special projects on which  we have all set our hearts. Probably by 1954 we  shall have found the answer but, for the moment,  perhaps you will allow me to quote the well-known  first words in our histories of France, those over-  simplified textbooks which Unesco is very proper-  ly seeking to revise: "Our ancestors the Gauls  feared only one thing, that the heavenly vault or  ceiling might fall on their heads." But, odd as it  may seem, twenty centuries later a ceiling has  fallen on our heads and, as it was put in the "Grand  Siècle", "it has left us a trifle surprised".
(119) To conclude, our task and programme  should, I think, be as follows: to paraphrase  Immanuel Kant and, I believe, Henri Laugier as  well, we must embark on the next Conference with  the moral law of Unesco in our hearts, and above  our heads nothing but the stars of heaven: a ceil-  ing is too dangerous.
(120) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  France and call upon the delegate of India.
(121) Mr. H, S. MALIK (India) - Mr. President,  fellow delegates, the Indian delegation will abstain  from voting for this programme, and I should like  to explain very briefly why. We accepted the ma-  jority vote on the ceiling. I think a great many of  us in this Conference felt that that represented a  setback for Unesco; we were reluctant, however,  to reopen the issue because, in our opinion, it  would have created a dangerous precedent. It was  our hope that, after the programme had been  thoroughly examined in relation to the budget cei-  ling, such items as were still considered impor-  tant but could not be carried out within the budget  would be given a supplementary grant; if, after  the fullest examination by the Programme Com-  mission, it was found that some items of an urgent  nature required financing, we had hoped that the  comparatively small sum necessary would be pro-  vided by a supplementary grant. We noted with  very great regret, therefore, that such a gesture  was not forthcoming but that, instead, those im-  portant projects will be financed by cuts from the  programme that was approved under the ceiling.
(122) We share the sentiments of our Swiss col-  - 251 -
11-24  league. We wish to pay the fullest tribute to the  arduous work that has been done in the Commis-  sion and in the working parties, and do not wish  our vote of censure to be interpreted as any re-  flection on that work. Nevertheless, however  arduous, however devoted, however loyal the work  has been, there is this feeling of dissatisfaction  that the gesture of which I spoke was not made.
(123) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  India and call upon the delegate of the United  Kingdom.
(124) Sir Ben Bowen THOMAS (United Kingdom) -  Mr. President and fellow delegates, I have two  points, if I may put them briefly at this stage.  First, a general comment on some of the issues  that have been brought to our notice by previous  speakers. I wish to say quite clearly that we, and  probably other delegations, do not come to the  General Conference of Unesco with blank cheques:  we come here after the Provisional Programme  and Budget Estimates have been presented to our  governments and carefully studied - in this parti-  cular instance over a period of three months; and  we are the accredited representatives of our gov-  ernments. We have our instructions and our hands  are tied. I wish to state quite simply that when  we enter this Conference room the sky, or the  ceiling, or whatever you would have it, does not  describe the limits within which we can act. It is  therefore extremely important that there should  be a correspondence between the programme and  budget as submitted to the governments and the  instructions that the governments will give to their  delegates when they enter the Conference.
(125) The second point I wish to make, Mr, Pre-  sident, arises from a story. It is recorded that  Henry Ford, in one of his more expansive mom-  ents, asked: "What can I do for suffering huma-  nity?" One of the people near him suggested that  he might put an extra spring in the back seat of his  cheap model. It is in that spirit that I call your  attention to a mild achievement on the part of the  United Kingdom. In the chapter of the Report of  the Programme Commission that deals with Mass  Communication, resolution 5.221 asks the Direc-  tor-General and his Secretariat, with our co-  operation, to carry out the measures incumbent  upon the Organization in applying, and securing  the widest possible adherence to, the agreements  and recommendations adopted by the General Con-  ference - and these are the springs, gentlemen,  that need to be put in the back seat - to reduce  tariff, trade and other legal and administrative  obstacles to the free flow of information. The  United Kingdom is very happy to announce that Her  Majesty's Government has now decided to ratify  the Unesco Agreement on the Importation of Edu-  cational, Scientific and Cultural Materials. Mea-  sures to give full legal form to this decision are  now being undertaken, and that is some witness to  PLENARY MEETINGS  the fact that we are anxious to enter into this com-  mon world of the mind where we enjoy these things  fo the widest possible extent. That achievement  is the result of many months of hard labour. The  men who were engaged in it made no speeches;  they talked little of stars, suns, dawns, hills,  valleys and skies. But they met other government  departments who were involved in practical con-  siderations of this kind; they carried through  complicated negotiations that meant the study of  treaties and the reconsideration of government  policy. At the end of a long period of study, hard  work and negotiation, we have given many thou-  sands of the children of the United Kingdom a  greater opportunity of becoming citizens of the  world.
(126) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  the United Kingdom and call upon the delegate of  Australia.
(127) Mr. Charles J. A. MOSES (Australia) -  Mr. President, fellow delegates, the Chairman of  the Programme Commission referred to this Pro-  gramme as having been mutilated; some speakers  have suggested that the programme as it stands is  not a good one. Frankly, I feel I must contest the  view that the programme has really been adversely  affected by the cut. In the reports of the working  parties you will not find any reference to the fact  that anything vital has been left out of the pro-  gramme. They have suggested that there are  some six or seven desirable projects which they  feel should be given some priority if sums become  available; but even those projects are not sugges-  ted as being absolutely vital. My delegation was  represented on four of the five working parties of  the Programme Commission and we are well  aware of the fact that nothing essential has been  left out. We realize that many of the projects in  this programme cannot be put into operation fully  during the budgetary period; funds will become  available, and we feel sure that all those desirable  projects will still be put into operation and will  leave us with a programme of which every one of  us should be proud.
(128) It may be that some governments have inthe  past been somewhat critical of Unesco's activities,  particularly its expenditure; and perhaps, fol-  lowing this very important session of the General  Conference, these governments will feel that  Unesco is on a very much sounder basis than it  has been. The programme as it stands is a pro-  gramme of which Unesco may very well be proud;  nothing vital has been left out of it. Speaking for  the Australian delegation, I appeal to everybody  to support this programme. Let us remember  that the Secretariat has made sacrifices, and they  will have to work extremely hard to make this  programme a success. Every delegation should  go home with a determination to work in its own  country, and to co-operate with the Secretariat to  - 252 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  ensure that this programme is effective . Let us  put greater efforts into the work of the National  Commissions. Let us ask those countries which  were anxious to spend more money to spend it on  the National Commissions. There should be una-  nimity onthe programme. There should not be dis-  cord amongst us; we should not let the Secretariat  think that we were only half-heartedly behind them.  Let us be unanimous in saying that we wish this  programme every success and we ourselves will  do our best to make sure that it is à success.
(129) Finally, as I expect this will be the last  time that I shall be speaking from this rostrum,  on behalf of the Australian delegation, I should  like to wish every delegate here present, and the  Secretariat, a very happy New Year!
(130) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Australia. The meeting is adjourned.  The meeting rose at 12.55 p. m.  TWENTY - FIFTH PLENARY MEETING  Thursday, 11 December 1952, at 3.30 p.m.  President: Mr. S.M. SHARIF (Pakistan)  CONTENTS  Consideration of the Report of the sas Com-  mission (continuation) 253  Consideration of draft resolution on methods of work  of the General Conference (document 7C/DR/104).  Consideration of draft resolution (document 7C/DR/103)
260  Tribute to the ss members of the Executive  Board.  Consideration of a draft resolution: on action in the  service of peace (document 7C/DR/102) .  Closing Speeches.  CONSIDERATION OF THE REPORT OF THE PRO-  GRAMME COMMISSION (continuation)
(1) The PRESIDENT - The twenty-fifth plenary  meeting of the General Conference is called to or-  der. I call upon the delegate of Uruguay.
(2) Mr. Julian NOGUEIRA (Uruguay) - (Transla-  tion from the Spanish) The only specific item of  expenditure criticized today during our discussion  of the programme is that decided on for the Eighth  Session of the General Conference in Montevideo.  The criticism came from the delegation of Swit-  zerland, a country to which we have been travel-  ling for more than thirty years past to attend some  hundreds of international meetings without comp-  laint about the expenditure involved, mainly for
265  the non-European countries. The latter are con-  siderably more numerous than the European coun-  tries and the distance to be covered is, nine times  out of ten, much greater, with all that that implies  in respect of time lost, risks and expenses.
(8) So much for that point, and I should now like  to comment briefly on the earnest and judicious  views of the Mexican delegation with regard to the  limitation of Unesco's activities as a direct result  of the financial cuts made, the latter, as the Mex-  ican delegate so excellently put it, falling on each  State proportionately, according to its capacity. A  reaction against this restriction of activities will  be necessaryif we desire Unesco's continuance as  a factor for peace, and not its conversion into a  mere forum for speeches. I am convinced, Mr.  President, that the decision adopted this morning,  - 253 -