PLENARY MEETINGS II-18  *  EIGHTEENTH PLENARY MEETING  Wednesday, 26 November 1952, at 3.30 p.m.  President: Mr. S.M. SHARIF (Pakistan)  CONTENTS  Presentation of the Report of the Credentials Commit-  tee  Statement by the delegate of Japan on the budget vois ; + 219  PRESENTATION OF THE REPORT OF THE CREDEN-  TIALS COMMITTEE
(1) The PRESIDENT - The meeting is called to  order. I.request Mr. Parra-Perez, Chairman of  the Credentials Committee, to submit the report of  his Committee to this Conference.
(2) Mr. C. PARRA-PEREZ (Venezuela) - (Trans-  lation from the Spanish) Mr. President, the Cre-  dentials Committee of the General Conference met  this afternoon to consider certain items on its  agenda.
(3) The Committee recommends to the General  Conference that it take note of the recent receipt  of credentials in good and due form from the follo-  wing countries, which had already submitted pro-  visional credentials: Austria, Belgium, Brazil,  Burma, Ceylon, Colombia, Cuba, Dominican Rep-  ublic, Israel, Italy, Korea, United States of Ame-  rica, Venezuela.
(4) The Committee also considered telegrams re-  ceived from the following countries: Guatemala,  Panama and Saudi-Arabia. The Committee re-  commends that the General Conference consider  these telegrams as constituting provisional cred-  entials for the delegations of the three countries in  question,
(5) The Committee further examined letters ac-  crediting observers from the following organiza-  tions: Cultural Commission of the Arab League,  World Health Organization, International Civil  Aviation Organization, World Meteorological Org-  anization, Food and Agriculture Organization of  the United Nations, International Labour Organi-  zation. The Committee recommends that the Con-  ference admit these observers.
(6) The PRESIDENT - The report is before the  meeting. Is it your wish that the report.should be  adopted?... The report is adopted.
(7) Fellow delegates, you heard the statement
219  which I made this morning. I should like to know  whether any delegation wishes to make any com-  ments on those remarks. I call upon the delegate  of Japan.  STATEMENT BY THE DELEGATE OF JAPAN ON THE  BUDGET VOTE
(8) Mr. Toru HAGUIWARA (Japan) - (Translation  from the French) Mr. President, fellow delegates,  the Japanese delegation is in complete agreement  with the procedure suggested by the President this  morning, that is to say, it considers that it would  be inadvisable to reopen the debate on the budget  ceiling at this time, and would prefer. the detailed  examination of the programme for the next two  years to take place in the Programme Commission.  I asked to speak just now, firstly to tell you that  the Japanese delegation whole-heartedly supports  the procedure proposed by the President and, sec-  ondly, to request that a correction be made in the  verbatim record of the debate on the budget ceiling  last Friday. :
(9) At the beginning of the meeting on Saturday,
22 November, the President proposed that the Di-  rector-General should be asked to make his state-  ment and that delegations wishing to do so might  speak immediately afterwards. Owing to the gra-  vity of the situation which arose as a result of the  Director-General's statement and the speeches  * that followed, and particularly the motion for ad-  journment, we were unable to state our views; we  did not wish to follow the example of one delega-  tion and go against the Chairman's ruling by re-  questing to speak before the Director-General.  What I wished to do on Saturday, and what I shall  now do, is to explain the attitude which we adopted  during the debate on Friday. As you know, Mr.  President, in the course of the debate on the bud-  get ceiling, our delegation had proposed a budget  ceiling of $19, 055, 000. At the President's re-  - 219 -
11-19  quest, and in view of the slight difference between  the two figures, we agreed to accept the French  proposal for a ceiling of $19,000,000, that is to  say, instead of insisting on our own proposal, we  withdrew it in favour of that of France. Immedia-  tely after the temporary adjournment of the meet-  ing, a number of delegations proposed a compro-  mise figure of $18, 000,000. According to the in-  “ structions that we had received, we had no autho-  rity to support the new proposal for a ceiling of  $18,000, 000. I myself stated that the Japanese  delegation, although fully conscious of the gravity  of the situation and the need for a compromise so-  lution, could not support the proposal for eighteen  million dollars, and would therefore be obliged to  abstain when a vote was taken on it, but that we  maintained our original proposal.
(10) By that I meant that, since we had endorsed  the French proposal for $19, 000,000, we wished  to maintain that proposal, whatever the attitude  adopted by the French delegation. That was the  true meaning of the statement which I made from  the floor, and I am quite willing to admit that I  PLENARY MEETINGS  made a mistake in not speaking from the platform.  I am extremely sorry, Mr. President, that a lack  of clarity on my part should have given you the  false impression, for which I am responsible, that  there were only two proposals to be submitted to  the vote, namely the proposal for a ceiling of  $18, 000,000, and the proposal for a ceiling of  $20, 439, 104, as would have been the case, had we  withdrawn our motion for $19,000,000. That is  the explanation which I wanted to give today, and I  would request the President to see that the neces-  sary correction is made in the verbatim record.  Thank you, Mr. President.
(11) The PRESIDENT - The records will be cor-  rected accordingly. Does any other delegate wish  to speak? Is there general agreement with the pro-  cedure suggested in my statement?... I take it  that there is a general endorsement of the sugges-  ted approach to the problem. I now adjourn the  ‘meeting.  The meeting rose at 3.55 p. m.  NINETEENTH PLENARY MEETING  Monday, 1 December 1952, at 10 a.m.  President: Mr. S.M. SHARIR (Pakistan)  CONTENTS  Appointment of the Acting Director-General . .  Procedure tobe followed for the election of the Director-  General oh = alli Fa.  APPOINTMENT OF THE ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL
(1) The PRESIDENT - The nineteenth plenary  meeting is open. The General Committee of the  General Conference met on 29 November and de-  cided to convene this meeting and to place before  it two items for its consideration: the appointment  of an Acting Director-General, and the procedure  to be followed for the election of the Director-Gen-  eral. I shall take up the first item: appointment  of an Acting-General.
(2) The General Committee instructed me to place  the following resolution before the house:  "The General Conference,  Appoints Dr. John W. Taylor, Deputy Director-
220  General, as Acting Director-General, this appoint-  ment to have effect from the time at which the re-  signation of Mr. Torres Bodet becomes effective  until the appointment of a Director-General by the  General Conference at an extraordinary session. H
(3) This resolution is before the General Confer-  ence. Is there general agreement?... I take it  by your applause that this is adopted unanimously.  PROCEDURE TO BE FOLLOWED FOR THE ELECTION  OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL
(4) I shall now proceed to the second item. The  General Committee considered the question of the  - 220 -