PLENARY MEETINGS  THIRD PLENARY MEETING  Thursday, 13 November 1952, at 10.30 a.m.  President: Dr. SARVEPALLI RADHAKRISHNAN (India)  CONTENTS  Submission by the Chairman of the Executive Board of  the Report of the Director-General . . . . . . . . 51  Speech by the Director-General YG 53  General Discussion of the Report of the Directors  General: Speeches by the Delegates of Greece and  Sweden re Te aes 60  SUBMISSION BY THE CHAIRMAN OF THE EXECUTIVE  BOARD OF THE REPORT OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL
(1) The PRESIDENT - The meeting is called to  order. We take up Item 13 of the Agenda: Sub-  mission by the Chairman of the Executive Board  of his comments on the Report of the Director-  General. I call upon Mr. Carneiro.
(2) Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil), Chairman of the Exe-  cutive Board - (Translation from the French) Mr.  President, ladies and gentlemen, towards the end  of its Thirty-first Session, the Executive Board  met to examine the report of Unesco's activities  between April 1951 and October 1952 - eighteen  months of work summarized in two complementary  documents which together constitute the Report of  the Director-General to the Seventh Session of this  Conference. Experienced and serious men from  the four corners of the earth studied the texts at  length, questioned those in charge of each of the  undertakings reported on, considered the ‘results  achieved and the financial accounts, and then in-  dependently gave their views. It is my duty, as  Chairman of that meeting, to pass on to you the  substance of their remarks.
(3) Almost all of them expressed their opinions  fully, and those who didnot speak in the discussion  were anxious to stress that silence on such an oc-  casion signified approval and admiration. The  Board was unanimous in warmly congratulating the  Director-General on the work accomplished and  offered him its sincerest thanks for the unstinted  devotion with which he had discharged his task.
(4) The Report now submitted to you offers an un-  paralleled wealth of information and of promise,  and is charged on every page with profound and  original thought. It is without question the fullest  picture ever presented to you of Unesco's activities,  while the information it contains is made admirably  clear by a method of arrangement and physical lay-  out whichis beyond criticism. Thefirst impression  given by a document such as this is that Unesco has  now become an entity, a true andliving entity which  cannot be mutilated with impunity. Its place in the  world of today and tomorrow is finally assured; it is.  there and is making itself necessary in every quar-  ter. Quite naturally Unesco's early years were a  time of trial and experiment, but it seems as though  the Organization has now succeeded in devising  methods and deciding on clear-cut projects. Even  then the picture of Unesco in action was on an im-  pressive scale; but now it is not the number or  extent of its tasks which strikes the mind, so much  as the quality of the work done. At a leap Unesco  has arrived at maturity; it can now be given the  world's full confidence, for it knows what it wants  and what it can do. The false trails of its youth  are a thing of the past.
(5) It will of course be obvious that, though the  formerly amorphous mass of plans and projects  has now been reduced to order, there still remain  unlimited possibilities of development. It would  be madness to think of checking the expansion of  an organism in the full flush of life. In biology,  stability is death. Every living being unceasingly  renews itself, and to stabilize Unesco would be to  condemn it to extinction. Neither its programme  nor its budget can, on any pretext, be kept perma-  nently to the same fixed limits. It would be easy  to show that ‘the tasks for which Unesco has made  itself responsible could not be accomplished by  others; there is no other existing international or-  ganization equipped for the work which is Unesco's  province. All have, of course, fields of common  interest permitting of contacts, understandings and  = 51 =   II-3  co-operation, but each organization has its own  sphere,
(6) To the Executive Board, the most important  thing for the moment seems to be to publicize as  widely as possible the results achieved and to  spread through the Secretariat and National Com-  missions a knowledge ofthe individual contributions  made and the general balance-sheet of Unesco's  accomplishment and experience. For what we  mostly note in the national and international press  today is less hostility or indifference towards us  than a lack of precise information on our work;  and in the Board's view the present Report can  serve admirably to fill this gap by being distribu-  ted, either as it stands or in the form of summaries  or extracts, across the oceans to the four corners  of the earth, in every country, to spread the good  news of the harvest Unesco has gathered and the  seed which it has sown. The effects of distribution  on this scale will benefit not merely Unesco butall  its Member States, within each of which a more  enlightened body of opinion will be built up to de-  fend its budgetary contributions and to enlist ‘not  only its culture and learning but the whole body of  its people in the common task. That then is the  first thing which the Board asks of you - to distri-  bute the Report by every means and in every form.
(7) Admittedly, there will be specific questions to  be stressed which will vary according to region or  country. Some areas will be most concerned with  the work of fundamental education; to others, in-  stitutions for philosophy and humanistic studies  will have the greatest appeal, while a third group  will tend to fasten on the problems of technical as-  sistance. It is for each National Commission and  each delegation here present to choose, from the  immense variety of work being done, those items  calculated to make the most appeal to minds and  hearts in the Member State concerned. It is also  necessary, however, to remember to make it clear,  in this spreading of the message, that however  great its apparent diversity Unesco's whole pro-  gramme is directed to a single and unchanging  goal - the increase of international understanding  and the establishment of peace. Whether it be sci-  ence, arts or letters, the fundamental object of  every section of the programme is to contribute to  that overriding aim, and it is that which constitutes  the programme's essential unity.
(8) The Report of the Director-General is not just  an account of the work done in the Unesco Secreta-  riat; it also indicates the contribution of Member  States and National Commissions to the common  task. It stresses the silent and anonymous contri-  bution of all who, unknown to us and far away, are  daily and hourly battling for our common ideals -  the country teachers, the prospectors, the pioneers,  and the intellectuals pursuing individual research  in the highest realms of thought. It is this invisible  army of Unesco's fellow-workers - the consciences  of men, the love and devotion of women, the whole  chain of allies as valued as they are modest - that  PLENARY MEETINGS  the Report everywhere brings out.
(9) TheReport alsodescribes the cost of the work,  There are cynical politicians and men without heart  who often attack us for reckless squandering. 1  would ask you to find time to do a little sum: divide  the total budget of Unesco by the number of tax-  payers in the world, and you will find that none of  us pays as much as one single penny for this Or-  ganization - indeed, far less. Then turn your minds  to the money which each of us contributes, whether  we like it or not, to all the works of unreason and  malevolence going on around us. Set these millions  against those few pence, and give all our govern-  ments the courage to lean to the side of wisdom and  virtue.
(10) As was said in the same Board meeting of  which I am speaking, Unesco is a force of a special  type in the world. It is neither a purely spiritual  nor a purely temporal force; it is a new kind of  institution, a cultural force which seeks to bring  together and blend all the types of civilization of the  past and of today intoa common stream - the stream  of the future.
(11) When the members of the Board had said their  say and left me alone in our meeting-place, I began  to wonder whether all of us who, for seven years,  had day after day devoted the best of our thought  and work tothis common task appreciated the lapse  of time and asked ourselves whether it had been  well employed - whether we, who for seven years  had been working beneath this roof, might not have  gone astray. Seven years in a man's life is the  equivalent of centuries in the life of nations, and I  recall the splendid line from "La ballade du con-  damné" by the poet of the Liberation, in which he  says: "'Si c'était à refaire, je referais ce chemin".  (Where it necessary, I would do it all again).
(12) Mr. Director-General, I have been turning my  mind to our beginnings and pondering, in this sev-  enth year of Unesco's life, the path travelled and  the successes won amidst so many failures and ob-  stacles, so much wretchedness and indifference,  and I have sought to discover what have been the  forces which have helped us and what have been the  voices to which you have hearkened in your silent  moments. They were the great voices of the past -  Confucius withhis appeal to wisdom, Buddha calling  men to renunciation, Christ preaching humility and  the brotherhood of man, Mahomet calling for cour-  age and generosity. It is that chorus of the past  which has ensured the survival of Unesco in all the  catastrophes which surround us. For ours is in-  deed a singular adventure; perhaps for the first  time in history, men are marching shoulder to  shoulder so that nothing can divide them. We are  no longer split up into Westerners and Orientals,  into followers of one creed and followers of another.  Today the call is to all men, from the most primi-  tive still living a stone-age life in our forests to  those of the age of faith andthe intelligentsia of our  days, to move forward together to preserve the  future of mankind. To answer this call march all  = 52 +   PLENARY MEETINGS  religions, all creeds, all sciences, all arts and all  technologies. For the first time we behold the  spectacle of this vast tide of human life slowly  forming a single current to safeguard the spiritual  and intellectual heritage of man. In this vast mov-  ing column of all peoples from all ages, joining  together to go forward, we have our place. But we  also have to meet the challenges of life around us.  Seething populations are emerging; social classes  hitherto thrust aside, victimized and kept down are  taking their rightful place in the human family.  Here are beings still unmoulded suddenly claiming  their place in the sun, not knowing exactly which  path they should follow nor what duty demands of  them. Who but Unesco could tomorrow teach the  populations now winning liberty - these tribes little  by little taking shape and becoming peoples - what  are the limits of their rights and what are the im-  peratives of their duties?
(13) Mr. Director-General, it is from these chal-  lenges from the past and the future that your  strength, our strength, comes today. Unesco is a  thing of joy. I see it as the ship which Dante met  in Paradise, the ship with a song in its sails, "Il  legno che cantando varca'.
(14) ‘The PRESIDENT - We have listened to the elo-  quent and illuminating comments made by the Chair-  man of the Executive Board, on behalf of the Exe-  cutive Board. We are extremely grateful to him  for his observations.
(15) I now request the Director-General to intro-  duce his Report.  SPEECH BY THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL
(16) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL - (Translation  from the French) Mr. President, may I first ac-  knowledge my indebtedness. I am indebted to you  all, ladies and gentlemen, for your coming here in  such large numbers to attend this session of our  General Conference. I am indebted to my friend,  Mr. Howland Sargeant for the masterly way in  which he presided over the last meeting of the Gen-  eral Conference; and I am indebted to you, Mr.  President, for having accepted the onerous task of  presiding at this important meeting of our General  Conference, and for the generous spirit you dis-  played yesterday in your magnificent address. I  am also indebted to the representative of the Sec-  retary-General of the United Nations for his pres-  ence here among us and for his realistic and stimu-  lating message. I must express my thanks to Mrs.  Jouhaux and to Dr. Dorolle, who are representing,  respectively, the Director-General of the Inter-  national Labour Organization and the Director-Gen-  eral of the World Health Organization. My gratitude  is also due to Mr. Amoroso Lima, representing  Dr. Lleras Camargo, Secretary-General of the  Pan-American Union, and to the representative of  the Council of Europe, with which Unesco has just
11-3  concluded a working agreement. Last but not least  I want to thank you, my dear friend, Mr. Chairman  of the Executive Board, one of Unesco's great pio-  neers, in your capacity as a member of the Board,  a delegate to the various meetings of the General  Conference, and now a most distinguished and  brilliant Chairman of the Executive Board - and to  me, always, a friend, counsellor and guide.
(17) Ladies and gentlemen, I shall try to confine  myself to three vital questions. To what extent  and in what way has the concentration of Unesco's  programme been achieved? In what respects has  the Organization made progress? And lastly, what  are the dangers which threaten its success?
(18) From the outset, one of the great problems  confronting Unesco has been its programme of  work - not because its aims were not clearly de-  fined, but because the very size of the huge task  before it meant that in practice it had to bring its  choice to bear on the most urgent objectives and  the most effective means of attaining them, There  was a period at the start when the experts vied with  one another in putting forward proposals. This  stimulating rivalry led to a multiplicity of resolu-  tions, all interesting, but not all obviously tending  towards the same goal. The resources placed at  the disposal of the Secretariat were far too small  for a programme with so many ramifications.  Starting at the Mexico Conference in1947, a move-  ment took shape in favour of concentration. This  tendency became more marked at Beirut in 1948,  and was confirmed at Paris in 1949. It did not  achieve tangible results until 1950, at the Florence  Conference, Even then its effect was to be seen,  not so much in the annual programme as in the  basic programme, the adoption of which marked a  second stage in the history of the Organization.
(19) The criticism levelled against the first an-  nual programmes of Unesco reflected two different  points of view. Both were agreed in their desire  for concentration. But whereas the first aimed at  fixing a limited number of objectives, to which the  problems raised by the various disciplines would  be subordinated, the second sought to concentrate,  within the framework of the five great disciplines  which give their names to the chapters of the pro-  gramme, the problems raised by reality.
(20) The basic programme resulted from the re-  conciliation of these two tendencies. It satisfied  the second because it upheld the distribution of  problems according to disciplines. It satisfied the  first because it very clearly announced the ten  fundamental aims of a general action designed to  co-ordinate all our activities. This solution made  it possible to adopt, in 1951, an annual programme  which aroused the liveliest interest of the Confer-  ence. That is the programme we have carried out  this year. If any proof is needed that the recon-  ciliation brought about at Florence was more than  a compromise, I think you have only to read the  Report you are about to discuss and compare the  titles of its various sections withthe essential aims  = 53 =   II-3 PLENARY  enumerated in the basic programme.
(21) Put into other words, and arranged in a more  connected order, these aims determine the various  headings under which our activities are described.  This conjuncture is the visible result of a thorough-  going concentration. It demonstrates that a pro-  gramme drawn up by disciplines can be summed  up, when it comes to results, in terms of the ob-  jectives of peace and social progress by which it  was inspired. From what I have just said, two  conclusions may be drawn. First, that in the case  of Unesco, concentration by objectives must, if it  is to succeed, be preceded by distribution accord-  ing to disciplines. And secondly, that the real  concentration of our activities should result from  the co-ordination of work plans ‘as between the  various disciplines, and not from the elimination  of certain programme resolutions.
(22) Now we know that co-ordination is no easy  matter. I do not doubt that, in spite of the efforts  that have been made, there are still shortcomings.  But I am also convinced that the dispersion of  energy for which we were blamed has been suc-  ceeded by what I shall venture to call the phase of  the unification of Unesco's work.
(23) I have dwelt on one aspect of the problem: the  co-ordination of our work. The other aspect, which  [must not forget to mention, is the suppression of  activities which are less urgent or less helpful to  our purpose. In this respect Unesco has made un-  deniable progress. A simple numerical comparison  between the questions which occupied the attention  of the Organization in 1948 and those which figure  in the draft programme today is enough to show the  orderly effect of the adoption, by the Conference,  of a system of priority activities. That orderliness  was implicit in the list of objectives agreed in 1950  at Florence.
(24) Some governments may perhaps still harbour  doubts as to whether the activities authorized by  the programme strictly correspond to the ten points  which make up this list. Such doubts should be  examined without dogmatism in the light of a gen-  eral criterion: the equilibrium of the programme  as a whole. This equilibrium is conditioned on the  one hand by the various requests of Member States,  and on the other by the requirements of the indivi-  dual disciplines to which we have recourse. In an  association of 65 States, you have to consider first  and foremost the variety of traditions and needs  peculiar to each culture. What may not be a mat-  ter of priority for a well-developed country rich in  economic resources may be terribly so for a poor  country in a less advanced stage of evolution. The  opposite is just as obvious. Therefore we have to  find a happy mean acceptable to everyone. The  chief difficulty in the way of those trying to find  this happy mean is that they must never for a mo-  ment lose sight of two complementary truths. The  first is that in education, science and culture, ex-  tremes constantly meet; neither the arts nor the  universities are indifferent tothe progress of fund-  MEETINGS  amental or primary education, and vice versa,  The second is that, in our haste to bring our more  spectacular undertakings to a successful conclu-  sion, we are not justified in abandoning other and  apparently. more humble tasks which are just as  fundamental.
(25) Unesco must therefore consider the urgent  practical needs of the peoples, and, at the same  time, the variety of techniques without whose aid  those needs would continue to be uncared for. This  is the equilibrium, depending on many factors,  which the General Conference has tried to establish  in our programme. It is also, in my view, ‘the  chief merit of the draft which the Executive Board  has submitted to you for 1953 and 1954.
(26) I observe that in replying to the first of my  questions: "To what extent and in what way has  the concentration of Unesco's programme been  achieved?', I have already partly replied to the  second: "In what respects has the Organization  made progress?' For if Unesco's main problem  was to produce a realistic programme, the fact  that it has been able to concentrate that programme  without sacrificing its equilibrium is undoubtedly a  step forward. But this is not the only headway that  has been made. I can think of other, very definite  advances, about which I should like to speak to you.  We have been able to register progress in the fol-  lowing directions: in activities selected to meet  outstanding needs common to a number of States  or groups of States; in the study and application of  techniques of international co-operation; in the  formation of ''cadres' of international civil serv-  ants, which would probably not exist without Unes-  co; in the establishment of a vast network of non-  governmental organizations of specialists; and  lastly, in co-ordination within the Secretariat and  in contact between it and the Secretariats of the  United Nations, the Specialized Agencies and other  international organizations.
(27) If our work is to have the practical character  that we feel we must give it, certain needs, which  are clearly defined as tourgency andlocality, must  be met. We have put forth every effort, during  these last years, without omitting activities of a  general kind which are of interest to all countries,  to undertake a series of concrete tasks appropriate  to different geographical areas.
(28) As regards fundamental education, a training  centre for Latin America has been opened at Patz-  cuaro; and a second, for the Arab States, is being  set up at Sirs-el-Layan. Through the system of  associated projects, 50 experiments of the greatest  interest, being carried out in all five continents,  are benefiting by regular exchanges of information  about the methods used and the results obtained in  this many-sided campaign to secure a better way  of life for the peoples. In connexion with the ex-  tension of free and compulsory. primary schooling,  a regional conference for South and South East  Asia - the first of its kind - will be held in Decem-  ber in Bombay. The draft programme for the fol-  =   PLENARY MEETINGS  lowing years asks your approval for the convening  of similar conferences in the Middle East and in  Latin America. A meeting of governmental dele-  gates will begin work next week in Africa (at Jos,  Nigeria), on a study of the combined use, for edu-  cational purposes, of vernacular languages and  English. Out of four seminars organized this year,  two were held in Europe, one in the United States  of America andone in South Asia. In several coun-  tries of Europe, big international conferences of  scientists and artists have been held during the  present year. In Latin America, South and South  East Asia, and the Middle East, four science co-  operation offices and one branch office are helping  to link the intellectual life of these great regions  with that of the entire world, by keeping up a steady  flow of lecturers, scientists, publications and in-  formation. Our 65 Technical Assistance missions  are operating in 29 countries of Africa, Latin  America, Asia, Europe and the Pacific. The 92  sets of our six travelling exhibitions (scientific and  cultural) have been received in 47 countries of  America, Asia, Europe and Oceania. There is  thus not a single continent where the programme of  Unesco, in whole or in part, does not today evoke  real interest; not a single continent where one or  other of our activities, adapted to local needs, can-  not offer practical assistance.
(29) Unesco has also made progress in the study  and use of certain techniques of international co-  operation. I will mention as instances of this:  seminars, centres for the training of specialists,  Unesco university courses, the book coupons, the  gift coupons, and the international laboratories re-  commended by the Economic and Social Council.
(30) Unesco did not, of course, invent seminars.  But in six years of work it has acquired its own  special experience of meetings of this kind. It has  weighed up their advantages and their shortcom-  ings. It has tried, as far as possible, to improve  their methods. The four seminars we organized in
1952 were a pronounced success. The one held at  La Brévière, on workers! education, marked a  new stage in our work. The conclusions it reached  will enable us to carry out more effectively the  proposed programme for 1953 and 1954. The sem-  inar at Woudschoten, on teaching about the United  Nations and Human Rights, was a great help in  clarifying one of the main problems of the twenti-  eth century: how to provide education for citizen-  ship which, without deflecting anyone from his duty  towards his own country, will make him fully aware  of his country's debt to the international community,  The seminar at Brooklyn, on the rôle of museums  in education, opened up interesting possibilities in  a field which not so long ago was regarded as the  preserve of a very small minority. Lastly, the  seminar at Rangoon, on the education of youth for  living ina world community, brought together more  than 30 delegates from youth movements in ten  countries of South East Asia.
(31) More complicated perhaps, but also more  II-3  original, is the technique that Unesco has adopted  in organizing the fundamental education centres at  Patzcuaro and Sirs-el-Layan. Here the Organiza-  tion has indeed done pioneer work. Never before,  in any educational enterprise, have national and  international efforts been so closely allied. The  host countries have offered their territory and their  schools, their very people, to be used in this ex-  periment of world-wide significance. The partici-  pating countries have not only agreed to do without  the services of some of their ablest educators for  a period of months or years, but have also taken  steps to ensurethat when they return to their posts  they may continue on the national level the task-  conceived by Unesco in international terms - of  training specialists and disseminating information.  Four organizations co-operate with Unesco in the  work of our fundamental education training centres:  the International Labour Organization, the World  Health Organization, the Food and Agriculture Or-  ganization and - in the case of Patzcuaro - the  Organization of American States.
(32) The Unesco university courses, which the
1952 programme mentioned for the first time, also  represent a new form of intellectual co-operation  among the nations. For some years now, certain  countries have been accustomed to give official en-  couragement to the exchange of their most distin-  guished professors and lecturers. This practice is  excellent in itself. But visits organized in this way  are usually rather brief and aim only at strength-  ening cultural relations between one country and  another. The university courses organized by  Unesco are longer in duration and wider in scope.  In the first place, they are planned to last for a  complete academic year. And secondly, given the  variety of cultures to which they belong, the pro-  fessors brought together in each group are in  themselves an example of a truly international  effort in intellectual co-operation. Two teams of  this kind have been formed by Unesco in 1952.  One, which is now in Pakistan, is composed of three  sociologists - from Denmark, the United States of  America and the Netherlands. The other, which  is going to Venezuela, consists of three chemists,  one Austrian, one Frenchman and one Italian.
(33) The Unesco Coupon Scheme for books and  educational and scientific material has proved a  practical enterprise which has been very much  appreciated. The machinery used for allocating,  utilizing and redeeming these coupons provides a  typical example of the services which an interna-  tional organization can render to culture. Up to
12 November of this year, Unesco had issued  $2, 500, 000 worth of these coupons.
(34) The Unesco Gift Coupons have provided a  fresh facet, this year, to our direct assistance  programme. This scheme, launched at a time of  great economic and political difficulty, has unfor-  tunately not attracted private contributions to the  extent we had hoped. But we must not let that dis-  courage us. From January to November of this  - 55 -
11-3  difficult year, the sale of gift coupons amounted to  more than $74, 000. And, what is more important,  thanks to this undertaking, 475,000 persons be-  longing to different regions of the world have been  able to show the interest that is taken in specific  projects even when these are being carried out in  countries far away from one's own. We now have  this instrument at our disposal, even though it may  take some time to get it working properly. Steady  progress is being made, and if the present inter-  national tension were to relax, I am sure that the  mode of collaboration inaugurated by the Unesco  Gift Coupons would provide the world with an ex-  cellent opportunity to demonstrate that internation-  al solidarity which is upheld in our Constitution.
(35) The same is true of many other undertakings,  particularly those which have to do with promoting  the free movement of ideas and persons. The  section of my Report devoted to this part of the  programme gives a fair illustration of the variety  of ideas which Unesco has exploited so as to get  still closer to grips with this difficult and compli-  cated problem. If we have not yet made much  headway in this direction, it is certainly not for  lack of trying. Our efforts have, however, yielded  two positive results. The Agreement on the Im-  portation of Educational, Scientific and Cultural  Materials, adopted by the General Conference at  its Fifth Session, came into force on 21 May 1952.  As regards the problem of Copyright, we had the  satisfaction of achieving, at the Geneva Conference  this year, the adoption of a Convention which for  the first time creates a bridge between the Berne  Convention and the Inter-American Copyright Con-  ventions, and will make it easier for countries  parties to neither of these instruments to have ac-  cess to a universal system of guarantees.
(36) The project for establishing international re- .  search laboratories, which the Economic and Social  Council entrusted in part to Unesco to carry out,  has enabled us toregister two notable achievements  in the past year. In accordance with the order  of priority fixed by the United Nations-Unesco  Committee of Experts, an initial Convention es-  tablished, in December 1951, the International  Computation Centre. Of the ten ratifications re-  quired, I have already received one, that of Japan.  I am also informed by the permanent delegation of  Italy to Unesco that the Italian Cabinet approved,  on 18 October, Italy's ratification of this Conven-  tion. On 5 May 1952, the Convention for a Euro-  pean Centre for Nuclear Research entered into  force. Since then, work has begun, and I have every  hope that by the end of 1953 definite plans for these  two laboratories will have been completed.
(37) The training of international civil servants,  capable of conceiving and putting into practice these  highly specialized techniques, must also be placed  to the credit of Unesco. I do not want to mention  names, but I am sure that delegates who know the  staff of the Secretariat will have thought, as I was  speaking, of those colleagues without whose help it  PLENARY MEETINGS  would have been impossible toundertake the activ-  ities I have just mentioned.
(38) One of the main concerns of Unesco, from the  beginning, has been to encourage international co-  operation among experts. In some cases we have  had to renew the links severed by the war. In  others, many others, we have had to create collab-  oration which did not previously exist in any meth-  odical form. Here too, as in the case of the inter-  national centres for fundamental education, Unesco  has successfully broken new ground. Two inter-  national Councils have been created, one for Phi-  losophy and Humanistic Studies, and the other for  the Social Sciences. One Council which was already  in existence - the Council of Scientific Unions - has  been supported and reinforced. A World Confed-  eration of the Organizations of the Teaching Pro-  fession, set up this summer, unites three large  international associations. It is hoped that a Coun-  cil of Arts and Letters will in the future constitute  a federation of the International Council of Muse-  ums, the International Theatre Institute, the Inter-  national Music Council, the international associa-  tions of architects and other cultural associations  such as the International Association of the Visual  Arts, whose establishment was decided at the  Venice Conference in September.
(39) The setting up of these great international  Councils is not, ladies and gentlemen, the result  of a mereregard for symmetry; it springs from the  desire of the specialists themselves, and their  need for bodies through which they can co-operate.  It facilitates exchanges and co-ordination, and does  away with duplication of effort. It ensures economy  and promotes efficiency. The organizations in  these Councils can maintain relations with one  another, according to disciplines, through the sys-  tem of multiple affiliation and also through Unes-  co's work of co-ordination. These Councils do not  include all the international associations of spe-  cialists with which we have entered into fruitful  collaboration. More than 20 associations or con-  sultative councils of a permanent character have  been set up under the aegis of Unesco. Seven  international non-governmental organizations have  signed formal agreements with us, and 94 are ap-  proved for consultative arrangements.
(40) It is partly due to the help of Unesco that im-  portant ‘Scientific. and cultural bodies have been  able to intensify and extend their work. During the  financial year 1952, the service contracts signed  with non-governmental organizations have reached,  to date, the sum of $197, 000. In addition, these  organizations have received altogether, in the form  of subventions, $455,000 in 1951 and $446, 000 in
(41) The close contact which exists between the  Secretariat and the non-governmental organizations  is an essential condition for the success of Unesco.  But, Mr. President, no less vital for the efficiency  of our work is co-ordination: co-ordination inside  Unesco, among the various departments of the Sec-  - 56 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  retariat, and outside Unesco, with the organizations  of the United Nations. In both these directions, we  have made very considerable progress.
(42) As regards the first, my report shows the de-  gree of integration that has been achieved. If the  Conference approves, I am prepared - with the  goodwill of my colleagues behind me - to intensify  these efforts in the future. :
(43) Sofar as the United Nations and its associated  agencies are concerned, I am very gratified with  the improved co-ordination that has taken place. I  shall not repeat here what I have written in the  second part of my Report. But I should like to say  that, without that co-ordination, the work of our  Member States would be uselessly complicated and  the activities of Unesco - like those of any other  inter-governmental organization - would involve a  serious dispersal of effort.
(44) The development of our activities in Latin  America has provided us with a welcome opportu-  nity for close collaboration with the Organization  of American States. The Agreement signed in 1950  constitutes the formal basis for this collaboration.  The Committee composed of representatives of  both organizations, which is shortly to meet in  Washington, will enable us to harmonize even more  satisfactorily the tasks which Unesco has under-  taken in the Western Hemisphere with the pro-  gramme of education, science and culture mapped  out by the Organization of American States.
(45) The negotiations entered into this year with  the Council of Europe with a view to reaching an  agreement on collaboration have, as you know,  come to a successful conclusion. The text drawn  up by the two Secretariats was accepted some  months ago by the competent organs of the Council  of Europe, and received the approval of our Exec-  utive Board a few days before the General Confer-  ence opened its present session.
(46) We may no doubt attribute to the various kinds  of progress I have been describing - and also to  other kinds mentioned in the Report - the fact that  Unesco has gone on steadily expanding. The most  convincing sign of this is the number of States ad-  hering to our Organization. In 1949 Unesco could  count 51 Member States and 41 National Commis-  sions. Since 1950, the figures have risen respect-  ively from 59 to 65, and from 49 to 61. Another  eloquent proof of the expansion I have been men-  tioning is the 163 requests for technical assistance  which we have received from our Member States.
(47) Ladies and gentlemen, having thus dealt with  the progress made by Unesco in various directions,  I should not be dealing fairly with you if I did not  also warn you of the dangers which I see lying in  wait for us at the present time, and also in the  future. In the first place, there is a danger of  what we might call "settling down to our limita-  tions". Ever since Unesco came into being, the  gap between its aims and its resources has been  abysmal. And notwithstanding the views of many  sceptics, there is still today an enormous contrast
11-3  between its technical possibilities and its financial  means.
(48) Of course, Unesco cannot operate single-  handed in all the fields it is exploring. It cannot  build up by itself a universal system of science,  philosophy or the fine arts - nor does it claim to  do so. It cannot even assume sole responsibility  for a straightforward fundamental education cam-  paign. Even if it were not prevented from doing  all this by the very nature of its work, respect for  the sovereignty of its Member States would restrain  it. That is why, in certain sections of our pro-  gramme, the budgetary level is not as low as might  be thought. I refer to those sections dealing with  limited experiments which are in fact preliminary  tests, on the international level, for work which  Member States have to undertake on the national  level. But, even considered as a preparation for  activities which Unesco will not be carrying out it-  self, there are various enterprises in our pro-  gramme for which the resources at our disposal  are tragically inadequate.
(49) I think, for instance, of the anticipated cost  of four of our essential functions: of fighting against  illiteracy; of setting on foot, wherever possible,  an "active! movement in education for living in a  world community; of encouraging the exchange of  persons; and of stimulating scientific research  internationally. In this last case, our purpose is  not merely to increase the number of technicians  which the world so urgently needs, but also to  solve certain problems, such as that of exploiting  the vast desert areas or the humid tropical zones,  which hinder human progress and limit the possi-  bilities of economic well-being and the peaceful  development of peoples.
(50) Each of these four themes appears in our  programme. Three of them have been included by  the Economic and Social Council in the high pri-  ority list of the United Nations. The one concern-  ing the exchange of persons is not specifically in-  cluded in this list, but, considered as a means to  an end, it is essential for the realization of the  other projects.
(51) In studying each one of these themes, Unesco  has acquired experience that is peculiarly its own.  However, bearing in mind the urgency of attending  to the problems I have mentioned, we have not yet  emerged, for lack of adequate funds, from the  stage of experiments and pilot projects. Faced  with a world in which there are more than 1, 200  million illiterates, we have succeeded only in es-  tablishing one international training centre for  fundamental education: in Patzcuaro. The second,  in Egypt, has not yet been opened. Faced with a  world in which our freedom of movement is ham-  pered by frontiers ever more hermetically sealed,  we have succeeded, independently of the 26 fellow-  ships sponsored by Unesco, in establishing a fund  for 64 fellowships a year, which, added to the  scholarships and fellowships that Unesco grants  under the Technical Assistance Plan, enabled us  - 57 -   II-3  last year to effect the exchange of only 256 persons.  Faced with a world in which the workers are to be  reckoned by hundreds of millions, we have just  managed, with a credit of $40, 000 in 1952, to help  in facilitating the journeys for cultural purposes of
760 men and women from 12 European countries.
(52) And lastly, faced with a situation in which the  human population of the globe - according to sta-  tistics published in July 1952 by the United Nations -  is increasing at the rate of 80, 000 a day (increas-  ing, that is to say, in a world where every year the  resources and products of mankind have to be  shared by 30 million more consumers), our activ-  ities, so far as the arid zones are concerned, have  had to be limited to certain aspects of the problem  relating to documentation and the co-ordination of  technical studies. The Council we have set up has  succeeded, thanks to the ability of its members, in  drawing up a programme of co-ordinated research  and in proposing the distribution of modest aid -  the word ''modest" always seems to recur in con-  nexion with Unesco - to some 20 carefully selected  research institutes. But this aid is altogether in-  adequate for solving the problems with which we  are confronted. The creation of a training centre  for specialists in questions relating to the arid  zones is a matter of urgency, in view of the almost  complete lack of qualified experts. We should also  establish some institutions of a regional character  which, with the support of the existing centres,  would ensure the necessary breadth for our inves-  tigations in this field of knowledge.
(53) Mr. President, during the execution of the
1952 programme I have observed, not without anx -  iety, that the problem of Unesco is first and fore-  most a problem of size. There are some activities  which could be kept without harm at their present  modest level. Others urgently need room for .ex-  pansion. But this expansion cannot be properly  considered by those responsible for drawing up the  draft programme unless they know the wishes of  the General Conference regarding the future. The  present draft follows the directives alreadyissued.  As it is no use discussing this except on the basis  of the previous instructions, Ishould be very grate-  ful if the Conference, after having examined each  chapter, would clearly state its proposals for the  next two years, as regards both the aims we should  pursue and the scope of our work. In entrusting  the Executive Board and the Director-General with  the task of preparing these draft programmes, it  would be more convenient if, in future, the Con-  ference were not to confine itself to recommending  certain criteria, but were alsoto indicate the budg-  etary limits within which these criteria should be  applied.
(54) I am convinced that we all agree that Unesco  should have broad lines of action mapped out for it.  If we are to advance along these lines, however,  we shall need additional resources. I think it  would be very dangerous to suppose that these  could be obtained simply by redistributing the lim-  PLENARY MEETINGS  ited funds at present in our possession... To take  only one example: it has been said that we are  sacrificing culture to education, particularly fun-  damental education. Well, in 1952, the funds al-  lotted for fundamental education within thé normal  programme amounted to 5.3% of the Budget, equi-  valent to a dollar a year for every 2,500 illiterates.  In the light of these figures it will at once be seen  that the transfer of a few small credits from other  sections of the programme would not be enough to  guarantee for fundamental education the high pri-  ority which I, for one, would like it to have. Con-  sequently, to place the accent on certain priorities  implies that we must find new resources for carry-  ing them out, since, in my view, it would be ex-  tremely difficult to alter the proportions of the  present programme without granting fresh credits  for our most important activities.
(55) Another of the dangers which threaten Unesco  arises from the fact that all our Member States do  not play an effective part in our work, and that in  many cases their participation is very limited. I  repeat what I have said at every session of the  General Conference: the Secretariat is only one of  the mechanisms of Unesco. It seems a large body  at present, because the other mechanisms have not  developed to the extent that our founders in London  anticipated. But if the national co-operating bodies  were all to evolve asthey should, the Organization,  with a Secretariat hardly bigger than it is now,  could achieve many times the present number of  results, thanks to the combined efforts of that  enormous power for international cultural solid-  arity which the National Commissions could rep-  resent.
(56) In this respect, too, some progress has been  made. The Regional Conferences at Havana in
1950, and at Bangkok in 1951, have helped to stim-  ulate some of the Commissions of America and  Asia. Those in other countries which have been  functioning for some years have improved their  methods of work. But if one considers the intel-  lectual worth of the specialists whom our Member  States can produce, they all - and I trust you will  forgive me for saying this so frankly - all the Com-  missions could contribute more to our common  effort. The national co-operating bodies cannot  all, of course, take an equal interest in every pro-  gramme resolution. I have dwelt on the need for  adapting the programme to national and regional  requirements. I understand that the work of Na-  tional Commissions must vary, and that it will  tend to concentrate more on certain points than on  others. I realize that no one can do everything at  once. That is one of the consequences of the equi-  librium we have tried to establish between the var-  ious demands of our Member States. But this care  for adaptation should be counterbalanced by effect-  ive collaboration, at least in the case of tasks  especially singled out.
(57) I have left until last the greatest danger of  all: that of discouragement. Discouragement in
1581   PLENARY  the face of the political difficulties of the period  through which we are passing. It is not enough to  say that the present political situation is grave.  Circumstances might lead us to ignore the benefi-  cent influences on international life, of educational,  scientific and cultural activities whose deepest ef-  fects are rarely produced in a short time. The  far-sighted are well aware how important it is, for  the future of a world now in the melting-pot, that,  as the Constitution of Unesco lays down, interna-  tional co-operation should be organized in the do-  main of education, science and culture. Such co-  operation consolidates peace, or prepares the way  for it, because it gives the intellectual and moral  solidarity of mankind a chance to declare itself in  the minds of men, and to find expression, too,  through the medium of acts of intellectual exchange  and mutual assistance. But there are others among  us who - forgetting perchance that the only true  realismis one that embodies a genuine ideal - may  be discouraged by the employment of means which  are not immediately political, and which require  the passage of time before their full practical value  can be revealed. Against that temptation we must  fight fearlessly. ;
(58) On this point, I should like to be very definite.  I have never believed that Unesco could be entirely  above politics. Unesco is an inter-governmental  organization, and, furthermore, a Specialized  Agency of the United Nations. Its policy for peace  can in no way differ from the policy of collective  security and economic and social progress which  the San Francisco Charter prescribed for the Unit-  ed Nations. On the other hand, Unesco is devoted  to the things of the mind. Between liberty and  slavery, between justice and injustice, between the  faithful dissemination of knowledge and the blind  acceptance of prejudice, it is the duty of the mind  to make a choice. It is one thing to choose, how-  ever, and quite another to allow oneself to be in-  fluenced in one's choice. Or to put it in a different  way: it is one thing for Unesco to assume the po-  litical responsibility for its acts, and quite another  for it to abandon, for political reasons, the moral  and intellectual laws which should govern its con-  duct - namely, a world outlook, mutual understand-  ing, and free investigation. Nothing of lasting  value is achieved without taking time, and if we  demand them forthwith, the big results we are  aiming at may turn out to be very transitory.
(59) At Florence, in a moment I shall never for-  get, I said, with an enthusiasm that has never since  died down in me: "In a world torn by passions,  Unesco must give an enduring example of mutual  understanding’. Well, since 1950, the situation  has got worse. Far from abating, certain tensions  have been aggravated by impatience, irritation and  distrust. They have come near, even, to affecting  the international organizations entrusted with the  task of preserving and consolidating peace. The  purest ideal of Unesco - which is to educate men  in a spirit of international understanding, so that  MEETINGS II-3  they may one day be fitted to take their place in a  genuine world.community - is often represented as  a tendentious ideal likely to undermine patriotic  feeling.
(60) This attitude, I feel sure, does not have de-  liberate government sanction. But it reveals an  undercurrent of which we must be very careful.  Never since the end of the war, and in spite of the  commendable efforts that have been made, have  the frontiers between the nations bristled with so  many obstacles. Never since that date have the  minds of men been so threatened by partisan in-  terests. Never have the ideals for which Unesco  strives provoked so many supercilious smiles -  and so much criticism - as during this year. I  said, you notice, "the ideals of Unesco", and not  this or that project in particular. Never has so  much doubt been cast upon the very principle on  which the Organization rests, and by so many and  such important sections of public opinion in our  Member States. I know, of course, that many  voices have been raised in our defence. These  voices, clear and courageous as they were, indeed  deserve the thanks of Unesco.
(61) I have not mentioned this in order to complain  of our critics or to bewail the difficulty of our task.  I have always believed that, just because Unesco  does not depend upon any one system of thought or  any one political interpretation of events, it must  strive tenaciously, with calm and clear-sighted  patience, to win the respect of all opinions, all  trends, and all men of goodwill. The real danger  would be if, for fear of criticism, through laziness,  or out of predilection for the line of least resist-  ance, Unesco were to yield on the one point where  it cannot yield without destroying itself: I mean,  in its will for concord, universal understanding  and ‘world peace. In these difficult years, we  should take as our motto those stirring words of  Alain: "Every morning a man must wind himself  up anew, and conquer fate all day long: that is to  say, conquer fear, anger and cruelty’.
(62) Mr. President, I am about to conclude. And  I should like to conclude on a note which, notwith-  standing the anxieties to which I have referred,  reflects my unfailing confidence in the power of  man to dominate that fear, repress that anger, and  restrain that cruelty.
(63) When I consider the anguish and the alarms  of our century - so difficult to govern, but so vig-  orous and so full of promise - I sometimes wonder  if the very difficulties which confront us do not  give us the measure of. the enormous task we have  to accomplish. In a world where so many forces  conspire to oppress man and debase him, is it not  our duty to proclaim, without ceasing, his splendid  pre-eminence? The darker the international situ-  ation appears to us, the more circumstances seem  against us, the more we should regard this duty as  essential. I trust you will not take these words as  the illusion of an optimist, or as a sign of resig-  nation to an unconditional pacifism. No. On the
150 —   II-3  contrary, what lies behind them is the recognition  of the deep significance of measures taken on be-  half of collective security, the recognition that  peace must have a programme of action.
(64) I am persuaded that education, science and  culture can exercise a liberating influence on the  world. In this respect, the resources of our epoch  are infinite. What has been lacking above all, per-  haps, is a determination to turn our century in the  direction ofhope. If we are content to lead it a-  mong the still threatening shadows of the past, we  shall end by destroying it, and ourselves along with  ‘it. On the other hand, if we turn it towards the  light, that will be one more reason to overcome  our obstacles. To help men understand the re-  sponsibilities of the present and the nobility of hu-  man destiny - that, in my view, is the essential  task which the governments and the peoples have  assigned to Unesco.
(65) May peace among the nations enable our gen-  eration to appreciate the virtues of our time, and  to use, for the good of all, our marvellous re-  sources! And may, in their turn, education, sci-  ence and culture, as they increasingly develop,  consolidate a peace, where justice, progress and  freedom shall reign! ;
(66) I trust, ladies and gentlemen, that this Con-  ference may help to make my wish come true, and  show that there is still room today, in resolute  hearts and minds, for such a high ambition.  GENERAL DISCUSSION OF THE REPORT OF THE  DIRECTOR-GENERAL
(67) The PRESIDENT - We have listened to a de-  tailed, informative and comprehensive commentary  by the Director-General on his Report. He has  expressed his hopes and doubts, and Itrust that his  moving appeal for faith in the cause of freedom and  liberty, which is the cause of man, may find a re-  sponse in your hearts.
(68) I call upon Mr. Photiades, of Greece, to open  the discussion of the Report.
(69) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) - (Translation from  the French) Mr. President, Mr. Director-General,  colleagues, one of the encouraging facts about this  Conference is Unesco's presence in its "home  port. It is comforting to feel that our barque is  secure, far from stormy seas, though the visibility  may be poor. So let us congratulate ourselves on  being able to meet in our own harbour, and let us  thank the French Government for seeing to the  lights of the beacons that guide us across our tra-  ditional Mediterranean. .
(70) Since the Beirut General Conference, which  marked a memorable date in the history of Unesco,  the Director-General, Mr. Torres Bodet, ably as-  sisted by the departments under his administration,  has been able to perfect working methods and apply  them in the various fields of Unesco's activity.  PLENARY MEETINGS  The value of his tireless energy is too well appre-  ciated for us merely to assure him of our gratitude,  He has known, for more than seven years, how  deep our feelings towards him are.
(71) But, as the Director-General has often said  at previous sessions, and as he repeated a few  moments ago, the Secretariat is not Unesco; tac-  tical successes in its departments must be accom-  panied by enlightened strategy for the organization  of peace to exploit each victory. It is in this dif-  ference bétween the conception of tactics and strat-  egy that the wake of our civilized life ruffles the  calm waters of our own haven.
(72) The difficulties may, it seems, be reduced to  three. The first is due to the accumulation of ob-  stacles that impede the free exchange of ideas be-  tween nations; we have lost the happy unity of the  ancient City State containing a diversity of cultures  within a harmonious whole. Our civilization has  no other bounds, no other limits than the latitudes  and longitudes which today enclose our whole globe.  The second difficulty is due to the fact that the great  disciplines of learning increasingly need links in  the way of co-ordination and synthesis, in order to  offset "separatism'' and specialization. The third  arises merely from the various confusions over  fundamental spiritual and moral values, which are  less and less immanent in the consciousness of  modern man, so that he is no longer "indivisum in  se". If we recognize these three major facets to  our troubles, we shall be able to place "Unesco!s  problem' among them, not from the administrative  standpoint but from the "ideal" standpoint that our  Constitution enjoins upon us - in short, from the  standpoint of the unity of its supreme body, the  General Conference of our Organization.
(73) Some of our colleagues know that in several  quarters we stand, as it were, "in the dock".  Unesco is accused of dividing its activities into  watertight compartments. I think this accusation  should be examined in the light of the three diffi-  culties already mentioned. Unesco is accused of  not having made good use of the resources advanced  to it; but I think that, since we left London, the  uses to which Member States' contributions have  “been put can be explained and justified if reference  is made to the seven volumes constituting the Re-  ports of the Director-General of Unesco. Those  who know have read, re-read and exhaustively  studied these seven volumes. But this, alas, is  not enough to satisfy many intellectual circles,  which want to see concrete results accompanied by  telling figures, showing that the money spent on  Unesco's activities has borne profitable and tan-  gible interest for the Organization's Member States.  I cannot object to this examination; I myself be-  lieve that if the work carried out, and described in  these seven volumes, were completed by a twenty-  page publication showing the results obtained by  Unesco during its first five years, the value of the  return on the investment could be more clearly,  and certainly more accurately, assessed. I be-  =160 -   PLENARY MEETINGS II-3  lieve, Mr. Director-General, that that return  would be found to be higher than many others.
(74) My delegation believes we have been able to  summarize the methods of defence against these  charges in the logical order dictated by our expe-  rience, and I am confident that this system of de-  fence will be reinforced by our sister delegations;  but that is only a part of the strategy. In our view  it is not, by a long way, enough.
(75) There is a field for untrammelled and con-  structive activities which can doubtless be organ-  ized independently of disciplines and specialization,  in a universal moral philosophy. = This universal  moral philosophy entails sacrifices and the disin-  terested co-operation of men of goodwill. I believe  that the governments of the States which are parties  to our Constitution would still, today, repedt the  words of an important paragraph in the declaration  made in London in 1945 in the name of their peo-  ples, when they stipulated "that a peace based ex-  clusively upon the political and economic arrange-  ments of governments would not be a peace which  could secure the unanimous, lasting and sincere  support of the peoples of the world, and that the  peace must therefore be founded, if itis not to fail,  upon the intellectual and moral solidarity of man-  kind".
(76) We have often called to mind the spirit and  the letter of this. vital part of our Charter, by which  we are always bound and which we shall continue to  take as our guide. But here I should again like to  remind you of the words of Sully, that wise Minis-  ter of Henri IV. In the 99th Chapter of his "Sages  et Royales Economies d'Etat'', in the "Great De-  sign for a United States of Europe', he wrote that  it was necessary "in all new unions of peoples and  nations, whether in the form of 'subjection', infe-  riority or superiority, equality of rights or 'asso-  ciation’, to try to recognize clearly the character,  natural disposition and particular tastes of each,  so as not lightly to join together... those whom  temperamental aversion and differences of lan-  guage, law and custom might make incompatible".  And, gentlemen, he was here speaking of no more  than Europe!
(77) Neither on the basis of our Charter, there-  fore, and still less on the basis of History, do we  believe that solidarity should be preached by the  voice of officialdom alone, for we might come to  think that in that case the intellectuals of our Mem-  ber States were merely official or unofficial spokes-  men. On the contrary, we firmly believe that our  conscience can be touched by other appeals for a  freer, closen and yet looser union between nations  of the same regions. That is why I am glad that  our comrade from the earliest days, Mr. Paulo  Carneiro, Chairman of the Executive Board, this  morning mentioned the importance of the contri-  bution made by those intellectuals who, modestly  and anonymously, support our endeavours.
(78) Lastly, so that we may support our Director-  General on planes which are familiar to him and  which range beyond purely administrative fields,  we must complete our strategy by creating within  our society a union among those who would have  the courage, the time and the patience to help  Unesco to become more conscious of itself, of its  own freedom as a civilized "anthropos" and of the  spiritual and moral impulse within its soul.
(79) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Greece and call upon the delegate of Sweden, Mr.  Diiring.
(80) Mr. DURING (Sweden) - Mr. President,  ladies and gentlemen, a well-known ancient writer  recommended us to go straight forward in''medias  res'’, and that is what I intend to do. Before I en-  ter upon my modest observations, however, Ishould  like to pay tribute to the Director-General for the  admirable address to which we have just listened,  and to express our sincere admiration for the ex-  cellent presentation not only of the ideals of Unesco  but also of the difficulties we encounter and the  problems which are before this Conference. Ishall  start with some comments on the first part of his  address.
(81) The Swedish delegation, like so many others,  has always stressed that Unesco should focus its  activities on relatively few, important things, well  conceived and well done. We are therefore very  gratified that, in the budget document presented to  this session, efforts are made to indicate priorities  more clearly, and we think it would be an advantage  to go further in this direction. We therefore wel-  come the proposals submitted to this session by  the United States delegation, concerning further  concentration of efforts and resources in the future.  From the address of the Director-General, I take  it trat we are in complete agreement with him on  this point. We regard it indeed as one of the main  tasks of this Conference to establish priorities, not  merely by means of general resolutions and decla-  rations of principle, or as a kind of technical pre-  sentation of the budget estimates, but by an actual  classification of projects in two classes: those  which ought to be carried out immediately and with  a concentration of efforts, and those which, if ap-  proved in principle by the General Conference,  could be kept as a reserve and carried out as far  as considerations of personnel and financial re-  sources allow. A clear classification of that kind  would enable us, in the momentous years ahead of  us, to direct Unesco's activities towards the most  urgent tasks.
(82) I would give first place to all those projects  which, in a broad sense, involve technical assist-  ance to less privileged countries. It is also in this  field that Unesco has great possibilities of expand-  ing its activities, with the aid of funds from outside  the normal budget. We believe that the Technical  Assistance Programme is one of the most valuable  contributions to peace that the United Nations has  hitherto made. It is as useful to those who give as  = 61 -   II-3 PLENARY  to those who receive. This exchange of services  between free nations is the best thing we can offer  at the present moment in pursuance of the ideals of  the United Nations. We know very well the thou-  sand difficulties encountered in the initial stage,  but let us unite our efforts to overcome them, keep-  ing in mind that this is a programme, not for one  or two years, but for one or two generations.
(83) I am happy to report to you from my country  a steadily increasing interest in all projects related  to technical assistance. À Government Bureau has  been established to co-ordinate the recruitment of  experts. A large committee has been set up, com-  prising representatives of all kinds of organiza-  tions, including popular movements and youth or-  ganizations. In various ways the general public is  kept informed about problems relating to technical  assistance, particularly the educational aspects  which seem to arouse the greatest interest. I  should like to stress also that besides our contri-  butions to the United Nations programme we have  a programme of our own. Within the framework of  this programme our National Commission has, at  the invitation of Unesco, sent two representatives  to Lebanon; following their recommendations, we  are just now making the final arrangements for  sending equipment to the schools for Arab refugee  children. Another project is to invite six Indo-  nesian students to stay five years at a Swedish In-  stitute of Technology, and we hope that they will  return to their country as full-fledged civil engi-  neers and with some knowledge of the way of living  in a friendly brother country.
(84) It is a natural consequence of what I have said  that we regard the promotion of fundamental edu-  cation and measures towards the extension of edu-  cation as Unesco's most essential objectives in the  present world situation. Education paves the way  for understanding, and every increase, however  small, in mutual understanding between the peoples  of the world is a mercy quietly to pray for. Ano-  ther factor is this: the value of the work carried  out by experts sent out to various countries entirely  depends on whether there will be enough trained  people in the countries themselves to carry on the  work after the experts have left. Now we find the  following statement in the Director-General's Re-  port: "In every country the development of funda-  mental education is hampered by a shortage of both  qualified staff and suitable material". This terse  statement, ladies and gentlemen - is it not in itself  a challenge to Unesco? Indeed, it might have been  possible to make that single sentence a basis for °  the entire two-year budget.
(85) It is true that something has already been  done. We are glad to learn about the obvious suc-  cess of the Patzcuaro Centre. Like other field  projects in fundamental education, it has had con-  siderable publicity in my country and has helped to  arouse the interest of the general public. We hope  that the second centre at Sirs-el-Layan will be a  similar success and that the other projects of the  MEETINGS  same kind now under consideration will soon ma-  terialize.
(86) In the course of years Unesco has developed  a number of established services of a more or less  permanent character, one of the most important of  which is the assistance given to the development of  international intellectual co-operation. I am glad  to learn from the Report and from the preambles  to the Budget Estimates that the work of the inter-  national organizations of specialists in Unesco's  fields of action is regarded as a vital factor and as  a permanent foundation of both the long- and short-  term projects for improving the present state of  education, science and culture. Just as govern-  ments support basic research in order to reap the  harvests of applied science, in the same way Unes-  co has to promote and strengthen intellectual co-  operation among specialists as such in order to be  able to use the organizations in carrying out Unes-  co's programme. The Swedish delegation is strong-  ly in favour of contracts with and subventions to  these international organizations, provided, of  course, that in each case we have assurance that  the money is well spent. Especially in the case of  research work and enquiries based on question-  naires, specialized organizations are often more  competent and more efficacious than a body such  as Unesco's Secretariat. Moreover, it saves  Unesco's reputation if the results are less satis-  factory.
(87) Unesco has recently published an Enquiry  concerning the Professional Education of Librari-  ans and Documentalists, based on questionnaires,  and a large Handbook on the International Exchange  of Publications. It is a regrettable fact that ex-  perts in different Member States are unanimous in  their strictures upon these two publications. They  are both of them definitely love's labour lost.
(88) My delegation feels that it would be lacking in  frankness, Mr. President, if it did not express an  earnest note of apprehension at this. Books pub-  lished by Unesco have to be reliable and of good  quality. If this is not the case, the blame inevita-  bly falls on Unesco. We all know that, unfortunately,  one bad publication does more damage than can be  outweighed by ten good ones. It is only just to ac-  knowledge that Unesco has published many useful  books, as, for example, the Handbook of Educa-  tional Statistics, the Directory of International  Scientific Organizations, the pamphlet on the Tech-  nique of International Conferences. These three  publications, quite different in nature, are all very  well done and useful. In view of the fact, however,  that during 1951 Unesco published 208 non-period-  ical publications, we feel-that it would be of no  detriment to slow down and apply consistently the  principle: fewer publications, but better prepared  and better done.
(89) I shall not plunge into details of the coming  programme discussion but turn to some problems  of a more general nature. Unesco is 65 Govern-  ments collaborating to raise the standards of edu-  - 62 -   PLENARY  cation, science and culture, Our executive organ  is the Executive Board, our administrative body is  the Secretariat, headed by the Director-General.  We have already, in the Budget Committee, had the  opportunity of considering the opinions of the three  main bodies of the Organization and I have been  struck by the spirit of co-operation which is at the  basis of all our deliberations,  develop further this spirit without which Unesco  can never reach its goals. It is curious to read in  the Introduction to the budget document that no at-  tempt has been made to divine the intentions or the  financial possibilities of Member States. This is  not a very realistic approach, since after all the  activities of Unesco depend entirely on the re-  sources of the Member States. On the other hand,  it is our duty as representatives of our govern-  ments to be constructive in our criticism. Our  main duty will always be to see that the resources  put at the disposal of Unesco are most effectively  distributed so that Unesco's great possibilities can  be fully developed.
(90) We know that the Director-General has con-  stantly tried to reduce administrative expenditure,  and we note with satisfaction that the percentage of  the total budget devoted to general administration  is steadily decreasing. Nevertheless, we feel con-  cerned about the steady increase of established  posts. The Secretariat has been reorganized sev-  eral times, but in its main lines the organization  of work has remained unchanged. Some of you may  know a memorandum, issued quite recently by the  Secretary-General of the United Nations, contain-  ing suggestions for a complete reorganization of  the Secretariat. . Behind this proposal we find the  conviction that (and Inow quote from the memoran-  dum) "in the future greater emphasis must be laid  on questions of overall policy, on planning and bal-  ancing programmes of work, and on guiding and  appraising the execution of work programmes".  This could with equal right be said about Unesco.  It often strikes us that some parts of the Secretariat  are like watertight compartments. On the other  hand we sometimes learn thatthe main justification  for a top-level post in the Secretariat is that the  person in question is thereto co-ordinate the work  of various sections within a department. Questions  are often raised about the lack of co-ordination in  the work of the Specialized Agencies, yet in Unes-  co's budget alone at least some $150, 000 is spent  annually on liaison work with the other organs of  the United Nations. It is really not to be wondered  at that governments and delegates often feel some-  what bewildered.
(91) The Swedish delegation believes that an en-  tirely new grouping of activities, combined with  suitable means for co-ordination and for top-level  policy consideration of general problems, would  make Unesco a more efficient instrument.
(92) Another closely related question concerns the  presentation of the budget. The document before  us is admittedly excellent, and we understand what  It is necessary to -  MEETINGS II-3  an amount of work it has entailed to produce all  these detailed figures. Looking, However, at the  financial report of the Director-Genéral on the ac-  counts for 1951, we observe that during that year  transfers within the budget of about half a million  dollars were approved by the Executive Board, Or  let me take another example; in the budget voted  at the last session of the General Conference it  was foreseen that 831 established posts were re-  quired for the execution of the programme. The  actual number of established posts during 1952 is,  however, 859. In other words, at every session  we discuss and vote a working programme and  manning tables which, in the course of the following  year, are ofnecessity continually and considerably  changed. In the light of this I think the question  ought to be raised whether it would not be better to  present the budget to the General Conference in  another form, for instance by objects of expendi-  ture. Unesco has now been in operation for six  years, and the Secretariat has gained experience  in all fields; we can see that reflected everywhere,  including the presentation of the budget. It would  therefore seem natural for Unesco increasingly to  base its working plans and operational methods, in  all‘their details, and also the budget estimates, on  past experience. That is the firm ground on which  all national administration is based, and I can see  no reason why Unesco should not follow the ex-  ample.
(93) A problem which is constantly embarrassing  us is the constitutional dualism in dealing with  Unesco's working programme and budget. The  Executive Board is responsible for the programme  and the Director-General for the budget. At the  General Conference one body discusses the desir-  ability of the various projects, another body has to  consider whether the budget estimates are justified  or not. This is also quite contrary to the method  used in national administration, It would seem to  us far more rational to consider first how much  ‘money we have to spend, and then decide how to  use it in order to ensure the maximum effective-  ness.
(94) Unesco's chief aim is and must be direct  international action in the fields where only an  agency like Unesco can act. That calls for a true  spirit of enterprise and requires clear, unpreju-  diced thinking. -I observe that the Director- Gene-  ral in his address to us today made the remark:  that we have to examine the projects "sans dogma-  tisme". Far too much time has been spent and is  still being spent on writing retrospective reports  and surveys of past conditions. It is true that to  some extent such reports are necessary as a basis  for our deliberations, but the General Conference  would act wisely, I think, if it refrained from bur-  dening the Secretariat with too much report-writing.  We need a more streamlined Unesco with a steady  eye on the future and the urgent needs of our time.  We call for more business-like methods of work  and less bureaucracy. Would it not be possible,  - 63 -   II-4 PLENARY  for instance, boldly to simplify our methods of  work in the interests of efficiency? Why could not  Unesco, for instance, become a pioneer in taking  up a determined fight against the bureaucratic for-  malism which threatens to enwrap the work of in-  ternational organizations in a cloud of words and  documents ? It would be a meritorious achievement  in itself to rid us of this dusty phraseology, and  this could be done if we agreed to decrease the  number of documents and publications and if we  used a more succinct language. A reform of this  kind would be an enterprise not unworthy of a cul-  tural organization such as Unesco.
(95) Mr. President, in concluding my remarks I  wish, on behalf of the Swedish Government, to re-  affirm our declaration of solidarity with the aims  of Unesco and our confidence in you, Mr. Director-  General, and your collaborators. I am glad to re-  port that the National Commission in my country  MEETINGS  has succeeded in winning increasing support for  Unesco. We recognize the obvious progress and  the tangible results of the last 15 months' work.  Like you, Mr. Director-General, we do not think  that Unesco as an organization has reached a state  of perfection, but we believe that we are on the  right road and that promising avenues are opened  up for Unesco's work. We trust that the work will  be carried on in a spirit of friendly co-operation  among governments, National Commissions and  the Secretariat, and we hope that the work of this  session of the General Conference will contribute  towards the developing of that sense of interde-  pendence of the peoples of the world which we all  regard as the ultimate objective of the United Na-  tions arid the Specialized Agencies.  The meeting rose at 12.45 p.m.  FOURTH PLENARY MEETING  Thursday, 13 November 1952, at 3.30 p.m.  President: Dr. SARVEPALLI RADHAKRISHNAN (India).  CONTENTS  Discussion of the Director-General's Report (continu-  ation): Speeches by the delegates of Cuba, Denmark,  Lebanon, Norway, Canada, Italy, Afghanistan, Ecua-  dor and Colombia . .  DISCUSSION OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL’S REPORT  (continuation)
(1) The PRESIDENT - The Fourth Plenary Meet-  ing is now open. I call upon the delegate of Cuba  to present his comments on the Report of the  Director-General.
(2) Mr. J. REMOS (Cuba) - (Translation from the  Spanish) Mr. President, fellow delegates, the  present Government of Cuba believes firmly in the  outstanding importance of the objects pursued by  Unesco, which it regards as the organization best  fitted to guide humanity to a balanced state of  Seller Ee 64  mutual understanding and peace on a basis of  culture, the only one possible if that state is to be  achieved. Since it came into office, my Govern-  ment has given the closest attention to all prob-  lems connected with Unesco, knowing that, in spite  of the non-political nature of the National Com-  missions and the, policy of the Organization to  remain aloof from political ideologies, it is still  necessary that official encouragement, both moral  and material, should be given to those institutions  which bear the heaviest responsibilities inregard  to the application of Unesco's principles and the  endeavour totranslate those principles into reality.  My remarks are borne out by facts, Our national  - 64 -