PLENARY MEETINGS  ensure that this programme is effective . Let us  put greater efforts into the work of the National  Commissions. Let us ask those countries which  were anxious to spend more money to spend it on  the National Commissions. There should be una-  nimity onthe programme. There should not be dis-  cord amongst us; we should not let the Secretariat  think that we were only half-heartedly behind them.  Let us be unanimous in saying that we wish this  programme every success and we ourselves will  do our best to make sure that it is à success.
(129) Finally, as I expect this will be the last  time that I shall be speaking from this rostrum,  on behalf of the Australian delegation, I should  like to wish every delegate here present, and the  Secretariat, a very happy New Year!
(130) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Australia. The meeting is adjourned.  The meeting rose at 12.55 p. m.  TWENTY - FIFTH PLENARY MEETING  Thursday, 11 December 1952, at 3.30 p.m.  President: Mr. S.M. SHARIF (Pakistan)  CONTENTS  Consideration of the Report of the sas Com-  mission (continuation) 253  Consideration of draft resolution on methods of work  of the General Conference (document 7C/DR/104).  Consideration of draft resolution (document 7C/DR/103)
260  Tribute to the ss members of the Executive  Board.  Consideration of a draft resolution: on action in the  service of peace (document 7C/DR/102) .  Closing Speeches.  CONSIDERATION OF THE REPORT OF THE PRO-  GRAMME COMMISSION (continuation)
(1) The PRESIDENT - The twenty-fifth plenary  meeting of the General Conference is called to or-  der. I call upon the delegate of Uruguay.
(2) Mr. Julian NOGUEIRA (Uruguay) - (Transla-  tion from the Spanish) The only specific item of  expenditure criticized today during our discussion  of the programme is that decided on for the Eighth  Session of the General Conference in Montevideo.  The criticism came from the delegation of Swit-  zerland, a country to which we have been travel-  ling for more than thirty years past to attend some  hundreds of international meetings without comp-  laint about the expenditure involved, mainly for
265  the non-European countries. The latter are con-  siderably more numerous than the European coun-  tries and the distance to be covered is, nine times  out of ten, much greater, with all that that implies  in respect of time lost, risks and expenses.
(8) So much for that point, and I should now like  to comment briefly on the earnest and judicious  views of the Mexican delegation with regard to the  limitation of Unesco's activities as a direct result  of the financial cuts made, the latter, as the Mex-  ican delegate so excellently put it, falling on each  State proportionately, according to its capacity. A  reaction against this restriction of activities will  be necessaryif we desire Unesco's continuance as  a factor for peace, and not its conversion into a  mere forum for speeches. I am convinced, Mr.  President, that the decision adopted this morning,  - 253 -
11-25  involving a fundamental change in the Budget Com-  mittee, which becomes an Advisory Committee on  the Programme and Budget, will give excellent re-  sults towards improving the situation. Although  the programme submitted contains essential items  whose implementation is of great importance, the  Uruguayan delegation will abstain, in the hope that  the atmosphere of Montevideo may prove propitious  for the recovery of what has been lost and for the  broadening of Unesco's horizons.
(4) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of Uru-  guay and call upon the delegate of Belgium.
(5) Mr. Louis VERNIERS (Belgium) - (Transla-  tion from the French) Mr. President, fellow dele-  gates, I believe that it is the mission of the rep-  resentative of a small country to try to introduce  a note of conciliation and understanding. It is the  only part that I can play, and I do so gladly, once  again.
(6) In order to make our position clear from the  outset, I shall begin by stating that the Belgian de-  legation will approve the draft programme which  has emerged after long, difficult and perhaps, in  some respects, even distressing debates. I am  trying, at this time, to remember that I am here  in an official and not a personal capacity. There-  fore, in the few remarks which I am about to make,  I shall be speaking as the official representative of  my Government,
(7) We shall approve this programme, although  we would have preferred a more extensive one,  because we feel that this programme, as we have  moulded it, is defensible and that we can, by put-  ting it into practice intelligently and with faith,  convince public opinion in our countries, from the  man-in-the-street to the highest intellectual and  academic circles, that Unesco really serves the  purposes for which it was created. To repeat a  metaphor used by the Head of the Belgian delega-  tion, the Minister of Education, Mr. Harmel, I  believe that we have pruned a tree whose foliage  was perhaps a little too dense, We have lopped off  some branches which were admittedly full of sap,  but I do not believe that we have sacrificed any-  thing vital.
(8) I may say in the name of my delegation, and I  am sure that I am speaking also for other delega-  tions, that it is our belief that all essential items  in the programme have been safeguarded. I would  alsorepeat that we consider the stabilization which  this programme represents to be a temporary one  only. It is a programme for two years, and not  for all eternity, and we think that, in 1954 at Mon-  tevideo, we shall be able to adopt a higher budget  ceiling, perhaps a considerably higher one. We  hope that, as peace becomes more firmly estab-  lished, especially through the efforts of our Org-  anization, this programme may be constantly ex-  panded.
(9) I should like to conclude these brief remarks  PLENARY MEETINGS  on an optimistic note, for I am one of those who  never loses hope. Perhaps it is simply because  I have a good liver and digestionand bothare satis-  fied in Paris; but I also belong to a small nation  which has known many difficult times in the course  of its history and has never lost hope. When we  come near to despair, we think of the poets, and  particularly of our own, and I shall now call to  mind a Belgian poet who had a world-wide reputa-  tion, long before Unesco took charge of transla-  tions, and whose name was Emile Verhaeren. I  expect most of you know "Le Passeur d'Eau"  ("The Ferryman"), and I will not recite it to you,  but I might sum it up in a few words: the ferry-  man in his boat in the midst of a storm breaks one  of his oars; he uses the other, and breaks that;  yet he does not despair; he waits, with patient  optimism, "le rameau vert entre les dents". It is  that patient optimism, exemplified by the ""rameau  vert", that I would recommend to you. Lastly, I  shall quote two lines from a modern French poet:  "I1 reste encore assez de souffle  Pour refaire un ciel plein d'oiseaux".  ("There is still enough air to make a new  sky thronged with birds"'. )
(10) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Belgium and call upon the delegate of Liberia.
(11) Mr. Nathaniel V. MASSAQUOI (Liberia) -  Mr. President, fellow delegates, I come to the  rostrum for the last time during this session of  the Conference, for several reasons. First, lI  wish to express the feelings of the delegation of  Liberia on the question of the programme for 1953-
54. We feel that it is the best possible one under  the circumstances. As the gentleman who prece-  ded me pointed out, we are only going to vote for  this programme because we are here as repres-  entatives of governments. As individuals we are  opposed to the programme; we feel that the reason  given for presenting such a programme - that it is  realistic - is untenable. Any realism which does  not conform to basic principles and ideals is des-  tructive. We are here, however, upon the instruc-  tions of our governments, and, in following these  instructions, we are bound to act even against our  own personal wishes. We have been instructed  that, for the sake of harmony and peace - the very  purposes for which we have gathered here - we  should approve the programme and vote in favour  of it.
(12) Next, I wish to express gratitude to all those  who supported our candidature for election to the  Executive Board and to apologize to all those who  took exception to some of our very, very blunt but,  nevertheless, true remarks.
(13) Before leaving this rostrum I should like to  pay tribute to the Government and people of France,  that great country which for the past six years has  harboured Unesco, has given us hospitality, and  has encouraged us. That great people, the French,  - 254 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  have led the way in many instances, and are still  leading the way towards more noble, lofty ideals.  As leaders of culture in our respective countries  we all agree that the French saying which goes  "Tout homme a deux patries, la sienne et puis la  France" is true in a cultural sense, especially to  those of us who come here as delegates from Mem-  ber States of Unesco.
(14) The PRESIDENT -  Liberia.  I thank the delegate of  I call upon the delegate of Iran.
(15) Mr. G. À. RAADI (Iran) - (Translation from  the French) Mr. President, allow me first of all  to make a brief statement. Iran has signed the two  Agreements approved by Unesco's General Confer-  ence in 1948 and 1950 respectively. It has already  set the necessary procedure in motion forthe rati-  fication of the Agreement on the Importation of Ed-  ucational, Scientific and Cultural Materials. I have  just heard that a draft Law to this effect has been  submitted by the Government to Parliament. My  Government is fully aware of the importance of  measures designed to further international co-  operation and understanding. We very much hope  that an increasing number of States will become  parties to the Agreement, in order that the whole  of mankind may benefit from the advantages which  Will undoubtedly accrue therefrom.
(16) I also wish to make a remark about the pro-  gramme. We shall vote for the draft programme.  Although we have not always seen exactly eye to  eye - indeed there have been distinct differences  of opinion - regarding the quality and quantity of  the programme and budget, there is one point on  which we cannot disagree. It seems to me that no  final judgment can be passed on a programme or a  budget when they are in the preparatory stage, or  when they have only just been approved. In any  case, as the Conference has already almost finish-  ed with that stage of the work, there is not much  point in reverting to it. What is of primary im-  portance now, and what may completely change all  optimistic or unoptimistic expectations, is the way  in which this programme and budget are going to  be executed and administered.
(17) How many times have laws, perfect both in  wording and content, become useless or even  harmful instruments in the hands of incompetent  judges? And how often has the opposite occurred  in the history of nations? This remark also app-  lies fully to our programme and budget. I am  firmly convinced that, in spite of our extremely  limited resources and the distressing cuts which  we have been obliged to make in the programme,  Unesco will come successfully through this crisis  if, turning our backs on the past, we exercise  careful supervision over the execution of the pro-  gramme and strive to improve our technical and  administrative methods. When I say "we", I mean,  of course, the Executive Board, the Secretariat,  National Commissions and Member States. In
11-25  this way, and only in this way, can we hope to ob-  tain more adequate resources from Member States  at the next session of the Conference, and greater  support from the public throughout the world. Un-  esco will live if the men passing through the Org-  anization's service learn to work for it calmly,  modestly and energetically, with enthusiasm, of  course, but keeping their feet on the ground.
(18) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Iran and call upon the delegate of Cambodia.
(19) Princess PING PEANG YUKANTHOR (Cam-  bodia) - (Translation from the French) Mr. Pre-  sident, ladies and gentlemen; I fear I may already  have trespassed on the Conference's time, but  there are certain things which I feel that I should  say now. During the debate on the budget ceiling,  I made Cambodia's position clear and explained  the reasons for our vote.. In order not to prolong  the debate, I shall not repeat what I said then.
(20) Having voted for a lower ceiling, it would be  consistent to vote also for the programme. Un-  fortunately, however, my delegation will have to  abstain, for reasons other than those given by the  delegates of France and Lebanon. Not having had  an opportunity to study the agenda of meetings in  advance, and being a member of a very small del-  egation, it has been difficult for me to follow, and  take an active part in, the examination of the pro-  gramme. It is for that reason that I shall "abs-  tain", leaving it to States who have participated  actively in the examination of the programme to  vote as they deem appropriate.
(21) Further, I do not believe that, in failing to  adopt the ceiling proposed by the Director-General,  whose departure we so much regret, we have forced  Unesco to take a backward step. There has been  no forward step, but no retrogression either; Un-  esco has simply called a halt, and in all strategy,  even in that of war, there are moments when the  General Staff is obligated to call a halt.In any case,  I agree with the delegate of Belgium that Unesco  still has enough air to make a new sky thronged  with birds.
(22) The founders of Unesco of course wished to  endow the Organization with very lofty aims, and  it is easy to understand why. After a cruel and  terrible war, fraught with indescribable suffering,  the peoples felt an urgent need for some ideal and .  sought a way to safeguard peace. But it is no use  being the only one to want peace; the will to peace  must be shared by many. Moreover, as someone  said recently - I believe that it was the leader of  the Swiss delegation - we are now obliged to revise  our opinions because difficult times have returned  and the clouds of war are gathering on the hori-  zon. In my own country, the storm has already  broken. Someone else said, in this very room,  that, in private life, when people have no means,  they have to reduce their standard of living. Per-  sonally, I believe that Unesco could reduce its stan-  - 255 -   IT-25  dard of living a little without any loss of prestige.
(23) Unesco's aim is to achieve peace through the  advancement of education, science and culture.  But peace does not come by itself; in order to se-  cure it, mutual concessions must be made. That  is why I wish to appeal to the conscience and the  spirit of understanding of all States here present,  in order that the close of this Seventh Session of  the General Conference may be marked by unani-  mous agreement.
(24) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Cambodia and call upon the delegate of Japan.
(25) Mr. Toru HAGUIWARA (Japan) - (Translation  from the French) Mr. President, fellow delegates,  as representative of the Japanese delegation, I  support all that was said this morning with so much  tact and clarity by the honourable delegates of  Switzerland, France, Lebanon, India and Mexico.
(26) I support them in deploring the procedure ad-  opted at this session of the General Conference for  the consideration of the draft programme and bud-  get. The Japanese delegation will nevertheless  vote for the programme, because it feels that it  would be lamentable, after voting for the budget  and all the resolutions of the Administrative Com-  mission, for the General Conference to dissolve  without having adopted the programme.
(27) Do not vote against it, gentlemen, in the hope  that there will be enough favourable votes to en-  sure its adoption in spite of your opposition. I  think that that would be a contradictory attitude.  The situation will be very serious if the programme  is not adopted although the budget has been app-  roved. The Australian delegate this morning  wished us a safe return and a happy New Year, but  we could certainly not go away feeling happy if the  programme had not been adopted by the General  Conference. I believe that there are times when  it is more important to safeguard the interests of  the Organization than the position of any delega-  tion. The Japanese delegation will therefore vote  for the programme, but in the hope that a more  satisfactory procedure will be adopted at Monte-  video, as suggested by the honourable delegate of  Switzerland; we hope that the General Conference  will thus be able to work more efficiently, and  particularly that a better method of discussing the  budget and programme will have been devised.
(28) As Sir Ben Bowen Thomas rightly said this  morning, every delegation comes to the General  Conference with specific instructions; but since  every Member State, with the approval of its legi-  slature, has accepted and ratified the Constitu-  tion, in which it is clearly laid down that the bud-  get shall be approved by a majority vote in the  General Conference, it would appear normal, in  accordance with the most elementary democratic  principles, if I may so express myself, that every  Member State should accept the budget adopted, as  prescribed by the Constitution. We should in fu-  PLENARY MEETINGS  ture adopt a procedure allowing for a free consid-  eration of the draft programme, on the under-  standing that all delegations will abide by the deci-  sion of the General Conference, once it has adopted  the budget and the programme.
(29) The procedure which we have followed was  not, I think, the best possible one and, since the  Swiss Government has suggested certain changes  to be made in that procedure, I hope that the Gen-  eral Conference will adopt the relevant resolution  which will shortly be presented to it, and that the  Executive Board will conduct a thorough examina-  tion of the possibility of introducing an amendment  into the Rules of Procedure, enabling future ses-  sions of the General Conference to adopt a better  procedure than that followed at this session. On  that understanding, we shall vote for the pro-  gramme, since we have voted for the budget.
(30) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Japan and call upon the delegate of Brazil.
(31) Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil) - (Translation from  the French) Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen,  by some malignant fate, this Conference seems to  have reached its finest hour at the very end of the  session. The ship that was launched with such  high hopes has lost her sails, her captain and her  masts on the way. A sorry wreck has crept into  harbour, the poorer, not by the two million dollars  cut off from the programme and budget, but by loss  of hope and faith.
(32) Mr. President, either Unesco will be reborn  as a result of a world-wide plebiscite, a direct ap-  peal to the peoples, governments and National Com-  missions, or else it should be allowed to die the  lingering death to which our Conferences are, in  increasing measure, condemning it.
(33) Uponwhat great forces in the world today can  we count for support? Are there any Nobel Prize  winners among us? Do universities jump at the  opportunity to send their vice-chancellors or dons  to represent them as observers at our meetings?  Have we gained the support of women, without  whom no great or lasting achievement is possible  in the world? When Unesco was born, did they  bend over the cradle? Did they cherish the child?  And those men, bereft alike of hope and learning,  those millions of illiterates who are waiting to re-  ceive food from us, that food of the spirit which  we have promised them, did they hail with joy the  fact that we were meeting? No, gentlemen.
(34) To realize how lacking in inspiration our  meetings have been, the future historian would  have only to glance through the summary records  of our working meetings, where he would see that  we have not conducted ourselves in a manner be-  fitting the great leaders and heralds of contempo-  rary life which we are supposed to be. In the  course of the voyage, members of the ship's crew  have turned into blood-letters, or sometimes even  butchers. The great leaders, men of intellect and  - 256 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  feeling, whom we were expecting, transformed  themselves into chartered accountants; and it was  often very sad to see them, confronted by prob-  lems of vital importance to the modern world,  discussing only the drab and depressing aspect of  pounds, shillings and pence.
(35) We must find some central rallying-point for  this work, but it is not to be found here; it must  be sought beyond the doors of Unesco, among the  peoples of the world, who know that we shall either  win our salvation by enriching our common intel-  lectual and moral heritage, or descend into those  dark regions whence we have promised to deliver  the peoples suffering behind iron curtains. A great  battle is being waged around us, and the point at  issue is not two million dollars but Unesco's mis-  sion as the harbinger of a new world. Why an-  nounce the birth of an Organization dedicated to  peace, if we are not capable of establishing peace?  Why declare to the nations that we have created an  Organization for the redemption of mankind through  culture, if we are not able to provide them with  that culture? Why announce to the world that we  have come to safeguard freedom, if we are not  free to set in motion that powerful current of en-  thusiasm without which our work must remain  barren and futile ?
(36) Mr. President, I must apologize to you, but  I feel too lost in this dispute over ceilings and  floors to take any part in it. I do not believe that  that is the essential point. Unesco can quite well  accomplish a great task with $16,000,000, or even  $8,000,000, provided that, in addition to those  dollars, it can count on the services of men of the  right calibre, upon whom it can and should call.  Unesco's weakness is not lack of money, but lack  of the right men. Has there been a feeling of bro-  therhood in this assembly? Have we been spurred  on by the vision that inspired us in times of far  greater trial, immediately after the last world  war? Or did we come here only to witness int-  rigues and lobbying?
(37) We cannot trifle with the peoples hot we  represent; we owe them the truth. Before taking  our leave, we must do sincere penance, at the  same time turning our eyes towards the only  gleams of hope that remain to us. I do, fortunately,  see such gleams. Barely two months ago, I visited  some isolated tribes in my own country and saw the  simplicity - I would say today, "naive simplicity" -  with which these teachers and farm labourers ga-  thered round me, asking: "When are you coming  to us? What will you bring us?" Some were living  in the dry desert, others in the dense forest.  These are the simple, honest men who are waiting  for us. ; :
(38) There is another great source of hope. Unes-  co was born of the Charter of San Francisco; the  mighty American people watched over the young  Organization's first steps. A great leader is to  become President of the United States of America,  a leader who has already brought the world the  I1-25  victory it awaited. Let us hope that this powerful  nation and its leader, with a new team and fresh  inspiration, will stretch out their hands to us and  enable us to recapture the spirit in which Unesco  was created and which must inspire us if we are  really to transform the world into a haven of peace,  freedom and culture.
(39) Mr. President, we will vote for all the bud-  gets which you ask us to approve, for all the pro-  grammes which you ask us to support; but let us  escape from this blind alley. Do not let us find  ourselves faced at the next Conference with the  same problems that we have encountered at this  one. Let us fix the budget ceiling in advance, once  and for all, so that when we meet, we can think  and speak about real problems and go into the  heart of matters which really interest us. Why  not say, once and for all, that "Unesco shall have  a budget of $10,000, 000 or $20,000,000?" Then,  gentlemen, within the limits of the amount pre-  scribed, you would be able to get down to your job,  which is to decide how to avoid, by means of the  social sciences, the great conflicts latent in all  regions of the world; how to improve men's phy-  sical and mental health by the establishment of  international laboratories, an Institute for the  fight against cancer, an Institute for research on  the brain or on nuclear physics; how to promote  education and culture ...
(40) Mr. President, my apologies; I shall not  leave this Conference discouraged, but with the  determination to devote my remaining strength to  speaking, not to you, fellow delegates, but to the  simple people.
(41) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Brazil and callupon the delegate of the Philippines.
(42) Mrs. Geronima T. PECSON (Philippines) -  Mr. President, respected representatives of Mem-  ber States, from the very beginning of this session  of the General Conference, the Philippine delega-  tion has supported the principle of continuing dev-  elopment as the basis for Unesco action, and has  worked vigorously against any move either for re-  gression or for maintenance of the status quo. We  saw with sorrow how the principle of development  suffered a setback when it received a vote of a  minority of the Member States. For a time it  seemed that our Organization was moving danger-  ously towards extinction.
(43) The resignation of Mr. Jaime Torres Bodet,  whose brilliant qualities of leadership have been a  reassuring source of strength to Unesco for four  years, brought to us the full realization of a funda-  mental difference in points of view between those  who would forge ahead - even at the risk of greater  demands upon the resources of their respective  governments - and those who want retrenchment to  enable Unesco to remove what has been claimed by  them to be not absolutely necessary. We have suc-  cessfully passed the crisis because those who dif-  - 257 -   IT-25  fer with us also share sincerely our faith in the  ideals of Unesco; they too are devotedly endea-  vouring, if in a different way, to achieve those  ideals. The Philippine delegation did its best to  have the principle of continuing development ref-  lected in the budget. If we have not succeeded in  obtaining to our entire satisfaction a programme  which puts this principle into effect, we have at  least the consolation of seeing that the programme  presented to us represents the best possible work  plan for 1953-1954 that could be arrived at through  democratic processes. In voting for it, as we are  now determined to do when the moment of decision  comes, we are confronted with the alternative of  having a programme, however imperfect it may  be, or having no programme at all. If we had in-  tended to vote "no' now, to maintain, without giv-  ing an inch of ground, our original vote on the bud-  get ceiling, we should not have continued to parti-  cipate in the deliberations of the various organs of  Unesco. But we believe in democracy. That we  have worked with those whose views have been  contrary to ours is indicative of our respect for  the voice of the majority and our desire to work  with that majority for the benefit of the world. On  this crucial occasion we cannot,:in ‘conscience,  take a course of action which would give the world °  , the wrong impression that Unesco does not com-  mand enthusiastic support. That is why we reject  not only the idea of voting against the programme,  but also the idea of abstaining from the vote.
(44) We plead with you, our colleagues, to con-  sider the repercussions that many negative votes  and abstentions could have in the world. We fear  that such votes would irreparably weaken Unesco  by giving the impression that its programme of  work has not deservedwhole-hearted endorsement.  Unesco must be kept alive. That is the most vital  consideration in the decision that we are about to  make. The Philippine delegation chooses to enable  our Organization to continue its work by voting  without equivocation or regret for the programme  now before us. Unesco is not solely for the States  whose point of view has prevailed at this session,  but for all mankind. It must continue not only for
1953 and 1954; we must be sure that Unesco is  constructed in such a way that it can survive the  shocks of all time. :
(45) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of the  Philippines and call upon the delegate of Afghani-  stan.
(46) Mohammed ANAS Khan (Afghanistan) - (Tran-  slation from the French) Mr. President, fellow  delegates, on behalf of my delegation, I have the  honour to express my warmest thanks to the mem-  bers of the Secretariat and administration of Unes-  co, and to the delegates elected to preside over the  various Commissions and working parties. I am  glad to see that the Conference has managed to  overcome many difficulties by evolving methods of  PLENARY MEETINGS  procedure which will enable Unesco to pursue its  aims very actively, without seriously reducing its  output. Thanks to the spirit of international co-  operation imbuing us all, we have been able to  reach an agreement. In order that the programme  which we have adopted may be satisfactorily exec-  uted in every country, it will have to be adapted to  suit local conditions; but the fact that the details  of the programme may differ from country to coun-  try is of no account; what is important is that we  should be united in a common determination to ap-  ply the principles underlying those details. At  each session of the General Conference, delegates  establish personal contacts and get to know new  friends and colleagues, thereby increasing the  number of direct cultural relations between ex-  perts in the various Member States; these friend-  ships and contacts are no less important than the  work of the Conference itself.
(47) Fellow delegates, I wish you every success in  the execution and application of the recommenda-  tions of this Conference in your own countries. We  all wish Mr. Taylor good luck in his new work as  Acting Director-General. We extend our gratitude  to the President of the Conference, who is absent,  and particularly to our distinguished Acting Presi-  dent who replaced him at a very critical time and  has conducted our business so ably that we have  managed to get through the enormous amount of  work which was before us.
(48) It is our duty, ladies and gentlemen, to thank  the interpreters for their patience and energy and  the amazing work which they have done throughout  all our meetings.
(49) We thank the Government and people of France  for their hospitality and the assistance which they  have never failed to give to the cause of internati-  onal cultural co-operation and particularly to Un-  esco.
(50) We need optimism and courage in carrying  out our task. I believe that, on the whole, we  have preserved all that could possibly be saved,  and that there is no need, at this closing meeting,  to lay undue stress on the details which we have  been obliged to omit. I have not lost heart, and!  see no reason to dishearten you either.
(51) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Afghanistan and call upon the delegate of India.
(52) Mr. H. S. MALIK (India) - Mr. President, I  am grateful to you for giving me the opportunity of  speaking once again. I have asked to do so for  still think the programme is unsatisfactory. We  are impressed, however, by the pleas made for  unanimity in the interests of Unesco, interests  which we have at heart as much as anyone else  here. We shall therefore vote for the programme  and not abstain, as we had intended to do. We have  changed our stand in the interests of Unesco, and  we can only hope that the future planning of our  - 258 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  whole task will be considered and undertaken in  the same spirit of conciliation and give-and-take.
(53) The PRESIDENT - I thank the leader of the  Indian delegation for his words of conciliation and  wisdom. I call upon the delegate of Italy.
(54) Mr. Alberto de CLEMENTI (Italy) - (Trans-  lation from the French) Mr. President, ladies and  gentlemen, allow me, in coming up to the rostrum  for the last time during this Conference, to express  the gratitude of the Italian delegation to the Govern-  ment and people of France for having welcomed us  once again to Paris.
(55) We shall vote for the programme. All dele-  gations here, including my own, have had to ac-  cept, and have accepted, certain sacrifices; all  delegations here would, I am sure, have liked to  see such and such an item included in the pro-  gramme that they had hoped would be adopted.  However, in the opinion of the Italian delegation,  it is not a question of voting for a budget or a pro-  gramme. The budget is what the majority of this  assembly has decided that it should be, and the  programme is probably the best possible prog-  ramme within the limits of that budget. What it is  important for us to do now, if I may say so, is to  make an act of faith. Such an act of faith would be  invaluable. We are faced with the necessity of re-  affirming certain principles, the very principles  which we have been debating throughout the day,  and I really believe that we should adopt the pro-  gramme unanimously. I am glad that the honour-  able leader of the Indian delegation, who spoke be-  ‘fore me, has already appealed to you for a unani-  mous vote. I believe that is our right course.
(56) A great Italian poet - I refer to Dante - ex-  pressed in two lines a truth of which I would re-  mind you here; the tremendous serenity and con-  fidence in the future expressed in these two lines  should, I believe, enable us to reach agreement.  In Italian, they run as follows (as Italian is not an  official working language, I will give their gist  afterwards):  "Fede & sostanza di cose sperate  Ed argomento delle non parventi'  ("Faith is the substance of things hoped for, and  the evidence of things not seen").
(57) The PRESIDENT - Ithank the delegateof Italy  and call upon the delegate of Jordan.
(58) Mr. Khalil SALEM (Jordan) - Mr. President,  fellow delegates, I am very happy to be the last  speaker in this debate because I once claimed that  I was the youngest of the leaders of delegations  here. My remarks will be very brief. We should  be deceiving ourselves if we did not say that we  were disappointed. We were not disappointed be-  cause the ceiling was fixed at $18,000,000, or less,  or more, but because in our opinion the procedure  followed to fix this ceiling was rather wrong. We
11-25  were weighing our programme in a vacuum; we  did not study it first in the minutest detail to dis-  cover what mohey was then needed.
(59) We were disappointed also because we were  promised a supplementary budget. Younger coun-  tries are in need of greater help, and we had great  hopes of having a larger allocation. But we did not  get that supplementary budget.
(60) However, I believe now that we should forget  about the past. We are going to vote for this pro-  gramme because we believe in Unesco; we have  great confidence in it, whether its budget is 16,
18, or 100 million dollars. What really matters  is not the actual figure of the budget but the will to  act and to work for the masses, for the peoples in  all the different parts of the world. We found this  will here; we recognized it very strongly in all  the representatives. Therefore we are very con-  fident; we look to the future and find there great  hope. Mr. President and fellow delegates, let us  pray that we learn from our mistakes, that we may  not commit the same mistakes again.
(61) The PRESIDENT - We have now come to the  end of our list of speakers. Before I put the mat-  ter to the vote, I should like to ask the Mexican  delegate whether he still presses for a vote by  roll-call. I may add that, inaaccordance with the  Rules of Procedure, it is necessary for such a re-  quest to be supported by another delegate. The  delegation of Switzerland supports the request. We  now proceed to vote by roll-call:
(62) A vote was taken by roll-call.  Voted in favour: Afghanistan, Australia, Austria,  Belgium, Brazil, Burma, Canada, Ceylon, China,  Colombia, Costa Rica, Denmark, Dominican Re-  public, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, France,  German Federal Republic, Greece, Haiti, Hondu-  ras, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Italy,  Japan, Jordan, Laos, Lebanon, Liberia, Luxem-  bourg, Monaco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nor-  way, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Saudi-Arabia,  Syria, Thailand, Turkey, Union of South Africa,  United Kingdom, United States of America, Vene-  zuela, Viet-Nam.  Voted against: Guatemala, Mexico.  Abstained: Cambodia, Switzerland, Uruguay, Yu-  goslavia.  Absent:  den.  Cuba, Korea, Nicaragua, Panama, Swe-
(63) The PRESIDENT - The result of the vote on  the adoption of the Report of the Programme Com-  mission is: 49 in favour, 2 against, 4 abstentions  and 5 absent. The Report is adopted.  CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION ON  METHODS OF WORK OF THE GENERAL CONFE-  RENCE i
(64) The PRESIDENT - The next item on the Agen-  - 259 -
11-25  da is the draft resolution contained in document
7C/DR/104. The draft resolution reads as follows:  "Considering the need for economy and the desi-  rability of a more expeditious disposal of business,  The General Conference,
1. Requests the Executive Board to review the  working methods of the General Conference in or-  der to secure improvement in those methods,
2. Decides to suspend the application of Rules
58, paragraph 1, and 59, paragraph 1, of its Rules  of Procedure for the Eighth Session of the General  Conference. "
(65) The suspension of the Rules requires a two-  thirds majority. Do you agree to the adoption of  this draft resolution? ... I take it that this is ad-  opted unanimously.  CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION
(66) The PRESIDENT - The next item is a draft  resolution on the communication received from the  Chargé d'Affaires ad interim of Poland in France.  The Acting Director-General received this com-  munication, which he brought to my notice. I placed  it before the General Committee, and after a pro-  longed discussion it was decided to ask Poland to  reconsider its decision. The Committee also de-  cided to circulate the letter immediately to the  Heads of delegations. The draft resolution is now  before you. I call upon the delegate of China.
(67) Mr. Yuan-ning WEN (China) - Mr. President,  fellow delegates, before I speak on this draftreso-  lution may I be permitted to associate my delega-  tion with all that has been said about the hospital-  ity of the French Government, and to express our  thanks to the French Government for everything  they have done for this Conference? There is a  Chinese poet who said: "When the heart is full,  what is the use of saying anything?" That is why  we have refrained, whenever complimentary spee-  ches were due in the various Commissions, from  saying anything.
(68) May I now speak on the draft resolution be-  fore us? The Chinese delegation is absolutely op-  posed to this resolution. I am sure all of you  have read the letter from the Polish Government  about its decision to withdraw from Unesco. Like  all communications from satellite States behind the  Iron Curtain, that letter is false in substance, vio-  lent in language and truculent in attitude. The  Chinese delegation is firmly persuaded thatno use-  ful purpose whatsoever will be served by inviting  Poland to reconsider its decision. We know very  well, in our heart of hearts, what its answer will  be. If this resolution is passed by the Conference,  it may be an open invitation to a rebuff. Why  should Unesco go out of its way to court a slap in  the face? The only fitting answer to the letter of  the Polish Government, in the opinion of the Chi-  nese delegation, is to accept it. As a matter of  PLENARY MEETINGS  fact, Poland has practically ceased to be a mem-  ber of Unesco by failing to co-operate, by failing  to attend the sessions of the General Conference  for many years. Why? We all know very well  that Poland must follow the dictates of its master,  and that its master is not a member of Unesco and  has refused to be one from the very beginning,  Under these circumstances, our delegation thinks  it is labour lost even to consider such aresolution;  the best answer is either to treat the letter with  silent contempt, or to accept the withdrawal.
(69) The PRESIDENT - Are there any other obser-  vations? I call upon the delegate of Denmark.
(70) Mr. Jakob NIELSEN (Denmark) - Mr. Presi-  dent, I shall say only a few words. I wish to pre-  sent a different view from that presented by our Chi-  nese colleague. It is true that the allegations con-  tained in the letter written to Unesco by the Polish  Government are unfounded; the resolution we are  considering uses these words. The attitude of Unes-  co, from the framing of the Constitution in 1945, has  been to hold the door open for all countries of the  world who would like to co-operate with us. Dur-  ing the years when we had among us those coun-  tries from Eastern Europe which have now ceased  to co-operate actively with us, many discussions,  even of a somewhat personal nature, took place,  but we have always held the view that it is wise to  hold these discussions inside Unesco. I think we  should take the same position in this case; it may  not bring any results, but it seems to be the most  worthy position, and more in the spirit of Unesco.  We should state simply that we wish to discuss pro-  blems with everybody who wants to co-operate with  us and we should accept the resolution as it stands.
(71) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Denmark and call upon the delegate of Lebanon.
(72) Mr. Charles DAOUD AMMOUN (Lebanon) -  (Translation from the French) Mr. President,  gentlemen, the Lebanese delegation is in full agre-  ement with the substance of the motion before us.  We believe that, in virtue of the principle of uni-  versality, every time a Member State asks to share  our ideals by entering Unesco, we should welcome  it with joy, and that every time a State wishes to  renounce those ideals by severing relations with us,  we should express our regret and endeavour to per-  suade it to stay.
(73) There is just one amendment to the draft re-  solution which I should like to submit to you. The  paragraph reading:  "Declares that the allegations contained in the  aforesaid communication are completely unfound-  ed, and"  would be far more suitably placed immediately  after the first paragraph. I think this would be  more in conformity with the spirit of the Confer-  ence and the dignity of Unesco.  - 260 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  "Having taken note of the communication addres-  sed to the Director-General ......  Declares that the allegations contained in the  aforesaid communication are completely unfound-  ed, and".
(74) The PRESIDENT - The delegate of Lebanon  has moved an amendment suggesting a slight re-  arrangement of the text. Are there any observa-  tions on this suggestion ?
(75) I will put to the vote first the amendment pro-  posed by the Chinese delegation. Those in favour  of the proposal of the Chinese delegate? Those  against? Abstentions? The voting is 3 for the  amendment, 38 against and 11 abstentions. The  amendment is rejected.
(76) I will now put to the vote the amendment pro-  posed by the delegate of Lebanon. Those in favour  of the amendment? Those against? Any absten-  tions? The voting is 17 in favour, 4 against, and
22 abstentions. The amendment is adopted.
(77) I will now put the amended resolution to the  vote. Those in favour of the amended resolution?  Those against? Abstentions? The amended reso-  lution is adopted by 35 votes in favour, 3 against  and 9 abstentions.  TRIBUTE TO THE RETIRING MEMBERS OF THE EXE-  CUTIVE BOARD
(78) The PRESIDENT - Before we pass to thenext  item on the agenda I have a duty to perform. I  wish to express, on behalf of the General Confer-  ence, our appreciation and gratitude to the retir-  ing members of the Executive Board. It is always  sad to bid farewell to friends and fellow workers.  It is particularly so in the present case when our  six distinguished colleagues are retiring after hav-  ing served so well the cause of Unesco, with abid-  ing faith, with deep conviction, and with untiring  zeal. I had the privilege of working with them for  only one year, but during that period I had the op-  portunity of admiring them as individuals and as  fellow workers. I know that we shall miss them  very greatly.
(79) First and foremost is Professor Paulo Car-  neiro, the Chairman of the Executive Board. You  all know him. You warmly applauded him a short  while ago. He brought to the deliberations of the  Board words of eloquence and extraordinary bril-  liance; but, more than that, he brought great tact  and skill. It was his constant endeavour as Chair-  man of the Board to avoid voting on any controver-  sial issue, and it is a tribute to a distinguished  scientist that he should have succeeded in promot-  ing solidarity and collaboration among the mem-  bers of the Board even when the subject of discus-  sion was highly controversial. I had found a great  friend in him and I shall miss him greatly indeed.
(80) Ambassador Parra-Perez is a man of great  international and political experience. Whenever
11-25  he spoke in the discussions, it was to utter words  of wisdom. I deeply respected his sound judgment,  and, if I am not giving away a secret, I always felt  safe in supporting his views.
(81) Professor Sommerfelt is rather reserved.  His reserve, I believe, is that of a great scholar.  He was always punctual, always regular in atten-  dance. I believe he has never missed a meeting of  the Executive Board. He was always the first to  arrive and the last to leave, and in between he  never left his place. I was his neighbour at the  table, and I confess that I found his regularity and  his continuous attendance most disconcerting to  myself.
(82) Mr. Roger Seydoux is a man of great person-  al charm, so characteristic of the French nation.  He was unavoidably absent from the meetings of  the Board during most of the session, but it was  our good fortune that he sent us an equally charm-  ing and equally genial deputy, Mr. Charles Lucet.  Paris is our headquarters, and the venue of most  of our annual Conferences. The French represen-  tative on the Executive Board is therefore a very  vital link between this Organization and the French  Government and the French people. We have  always enjoyed gracious hospitality from the Gov-  ernment and the people of France, and I have no  doubt that this kindness, courtesy and hospitality  are due as much to the characteristic French sense  of hospitality as to the interest which Mr. Seydoux  and Mr. Lucet have taken in the affairs of this Or-  ganization and of its General Conferences. Unesco.  has recently concluded a new agreement with the  French Government, and we are all grateful to Mr.  Lucet for helping Unesco in the execution of this  agreement.
(83) His Excellency Mr. Francesco G. Mameli  joined us in place of the late Count Jacini. He was  with us for only a short period, but throughout he  showed great faith in this Organization and advo-  cated its ideals with commendable zeal. I should  like to express on this occasion my tribute to the  memory of the late Count Jacini, who spoke to the  General Conference from this rostrum on numer-  ous occasions.
(84) Finally, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Tecer.  He is even more reserved than Mr. Sommerfelt.  As you will have noticed yourselves just now, his  reserve is that of a temperamentally shy person.  In the Board he spoke occasionally, but whenever  he did his remarks were always to the point, and  it was often to remind the Board of those points  which had escaped our attention. His advice was  always most valuable.
(85) Ladies and gentlemen, we shall miss them  greatly, but there is consolation in the thought  that, although they are leaving the Board, they will  still be with us; for I am sure that, wherever they  are, they will be thinking of Unesco, they will be  working for Unesco and, I am confident, with  greater enthusiasm and zeal than ever before. On  your behalf, ladies and gentlemen, I bid them adieu.  - 261 -   II-25  CONSIDERATION OF A DRAFT RESOLUTION ON  ACTION IN THE SERVICE OF PEACE
(86) The PRESIDENT - We now proceed tothe next  item, which is a draft resolution on action in the  service of peace, contained in document 7C/DR/102,  dated 9 December. I call upon the distinguished  leader of the Indian delegation.
(87) Mr. H.S. MALIK (India) - Mr. President,  fellow . delegates, the delegation of India has the  honour to present the following resolution for the  consideration of the General Conference:  The General Conference,  Having taken note of the considerable progress  made by Unesco in the implementation of its aims  and ideals as set out in its Constitution and,  Considering the immensity and urgency of the  task lying ahead,  Affirms its faith in the usefulness and vital im-  portance of Unesco in the present-day tensions  threatening world peace and freedom,  Calls upon Member States and National Commis-  sions to increase, in all possible ways, their ef-  forts for the development of the work of Unesco in  order to further objectives of international peace,  mutual understanding and the common welfare of  mankind, "
(88) I do not wish to take up too much of your time  with a speech in explanation of this resolution. The  world is suffering from shortages of various kinds,  but in this era of international conferences there  is certainlyno shortage of words. I have no desire  to add to the surfeit. I do wish, however, to stress  that this resolution is not just a formality, a polite  and conventional gesture to fit into the ceremonial  at the close of a Conference. If it were, the Indian  delegation would have no part in moving it. When  we look around at the tensions and conflict threat-  ening not only peace but civilization itself, and look  back at the progress made by this Conference dur-  ing the pastfew weeks - progress thatis construc-  tive, helpful, and based on hard, earnest work,  but also, we must confess with regret, of a badly  patched up nature at times - we feel that there is  urgent need for a real and dynamic renewal of faith  in Unesco, for a solemn affirmation of the prin-  ciple for which it was founded, and for a clear re-  solve that all governments and peoples in the Mem-  ber States shall do all that they can to further the  objectives of international peace and mutual under-  standing.
(89) We all know that mutual understanding and  international solidarity are the very foundations of  peace. The basic and vital task of the construction  of the noble edifice of world peace can be perform-  ed only by an international organization for educa-  tion, science and culture. If Unescois to perform  this supreme task, it is not sufficient that it should  just exist; it must be dynamic, it must develop  rapidly. Mere existence or stabilization in the  present condition of the world is tantamount to ex-  PLENARY MEETINGS  tinction for an Organization like Unesco. When  more than half the world cannot read or write,  when the majority of the little children all over the  world cannot hope to go to any school, when such  vast ignorance, superstitions and prejudices exist  both within nations and among nations, whenarmed  conflict threatens the very existence of humanity,  how can we, fellow delegates, who are gathered  here in the name of our governments and peoples,  even think of limiting our efforts in the service of  this great and noble adventure, the adventure of  building up an international community of free and  friendly peoples ?
(90) We often hear talk of this nation contributing  a great deal and that nation contributing not so  much, Let us not forget that there are great de-  mands on all our national exchequers. We in India,  for instance, have just formulated a vast and am-  bitious plan for the social and economic develop-  ment of our country. ‘This plan involves the ex-  penditure of enormous sums of money, over 8  billion dollars. This plan can only be carried out  at great sacrifice from our people. God willing,  we shall not shrink from that task but are deter-  mined to make whatever sacrifices are necessary  to contribute to the promotion of international un-  derstanding and peace. Let us not forget that the  measure of our sacrifice is not the actual amount  that we pay, but the extent to which that amount in-  volves a real sacrifice.
(91) One of the redeeming features in the whole-  field of international relationships today is the  growing realization that those who have built up  great prosperity for themselves have also a great  responsibility towards others not so fortunate.  The noble conception of the Technical Assistance  Programme and the Colombo Plan are evidences  of this. Let us work in the same spirit, let us all  be willing to make whatever sacrifices are neces-  sary for the furtherance of the vital task of build-  ing world peace. Let us reaffirm our faith in Un-  esco and call upon our Member States and Nation-  al Commissions to redouble their efforts in the  service ofthe great ideals for which Unesco stands,  so that its work may develop as rapidly as the ur-  gency of the present situation demands. Mr. Pre-  sident, these great international institutions are  but the vehicles for the fulfilment of the noble des-  tiny of man. It is in man at his best - in Europe,  in the Americas, in Africa and in Asia - that we  must put our faith. The world has lived through  great trials and tribulations in the past and will  surely survive the ordeal which it is now under-  going. The spirit of man has always been and will  be indomitable. I should like to quote that great  man, the Prime Minister of India, Pandit Jawa-  harlal Nehru, who said: "How amazing is this spi=  rit of man! In spite of innumerable failings, man  throughout the ages has sacrificed his life and all  he held dear for an ideal, for truth, for faith, for  country and for honour. That ideal may change  but that capacity for self-sacrifice continues, and  - 262 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  because of that much may be forgiven to man and  it is impossible to lose hope for him. In the midst  of disaster, he has not lost his dignity or his faith  in the values he cherished. Plaything of nature's  mighty forces, less than the speck of dust in this  vast universe, he has hurled defiance at the ele-  mental powers, and with his mind, cradle of rev-  olution, sought to master them. Whatever Gods  there be, there is something godlike in man as  there is something of the devil in him. The future  is dark, uncertain, but we can see part of the way  leading to it and can tread it with firm steps, re-  membering that nothing that can happen is likely  to overcome the spirit of man which has survived  so many perils. "
(92) The PRESIDENT - I thank the leader of the  Indian delegation for the noble sentiments which  he has so ably expressed. I now call upon the de-  legate of the United States of America.
(93) Mr. Walter H.C. LAVES (United States of  America) - Mr. President, fellow delegates, the  delegation of the United States of America is very  happy to associate itself with the resolution intro-  duced by the distinguished leader of the Indian del-  egation, and it wishes to second the proposal that  is now before this assembly. This resolution  comes most appropriately from the Head of a de-  legation which, throughout this Conference, has  attempted again and again to seek among us a  greater measure of unity and agreement, in order  that the work of this Organization may go on and so  that Unesco may appropriately fulfil the purpose  for which it was indeed established.
(94) As His Excellency Ambassador Malik said,  this is not just another resolution, one which is  passed at the last moment of a very difficult ses-  sion of the General Conference. It asserts the  abiding faith of the Member States in Unesco, and  the faith which the millions of people who could not  participate in this Conference have in the work of  this Organization. It is a declaration that, upon  the conclusion of this session, we shall all return  to our own countries to carry on the important  work which the Conference itself has made pos-  sible.
(95) It is especially important that we should ad-  opt this resolution, because this has been a diffi-  cult Conference for reasons that are well known to  all of us; it has been a difficult Conference parti-  ‘cularly, however, because we have been deter-  mined to find a common ground and a common way  to continue in the work of the Organization. Fel-  low delegates, there were times during this ses-  sion when the easy way would have been to go  home; when the easy way would have been to suc-  cumb to the difficulties, the frictions, which inev-  itably develop when one discusses such a complex  subject as the programme of Unesco in a world as  uncertain as that in which we live today. We chose  the hard way; we stayed on the job and we have  II-25  come through to the end at last, with a large mea-  sure of agreement - at least on all that is essential  for the success of the work of Unesco. We have  developed, in fact, a programme which is vigor-  ous and dynamic, and which we hope and believe  will make it possible for this Organization to move  ahead along its appointed course. We have even  found time - and it is important that we make this  declaration of faith here and now - to look into the  future to see the shape of the programme ahead.
(96) Throughout these discussions, in spite of our  difficulties, there has never been any doubt in our  hearts or in our minds that Unesco as an Organi-  zation must continue, and that the work for which  Unesco stands must be carried out with much  greater vigour than ever before.
(97) As we leave this Conference, it will be with  a greater determination; we are united once more.  I know we shall go away confidently, and above all  aware of the full magnitude of the task in which we  are engaged and of the heavy responsibility that  now rests upon each Member State to do its share  in carrying out the programme which this Confer-  ence has made possible. The distinguished leader  of the Indian delegation has reminded us of the cri-  tical nature of the age in which we live. It is above  all, however - and here lies our hope - a time in  which men of goodwill, peace-loving men every-  where, are seeking a sure road to peace because  they are sure it can be found. This Organization,  and we who work with it, is determined that educ-  ation, science and culture will make their contri-  bution to the task to which we are dedicated. The  delegation of the United States of America wishes  most warmly to second the proposal made by the  distinguished delegate of India.
(98) Mr. President, I cannot leave this rostrum  without taking upon myself the responsibility of  saying one word concerning the tremendous rôle  which you, Sir, have played in the work of the  Conference. At the most critical moment you  were called upon, not only to shoulder the norm-  ally heavy duties of the President of the Confer-  ence, but somehow to find a means whereby the  delegations, anxious to find common ground, could  indeed be brought together. In your quiet way,  you moved about among delegations, listening to  every point of view, and ultimately came forward  with proposals for a plan of work for this Confer-  ence, which made it possible for us to do what we  came here to do. You, Sir, reunited us and made  it possible for us now to go forward with enthusi-  asm, knowing that the Organization has been re-  dedicated. Each one of us, and all the people  whom we represent, owe you a great debt of grat-  itude.
(99) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of the  United States of America and call upon the dele-  gate of Pakistan.
11-25  Mr. President, fellow delegates, on behalf of my  delegation I rise to support the resolution moved  by the distinguished leader of the Indian delegation  and supported by the delegate of the United States  of America.
(101) Exactly seven years ago the United Nations  Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization  came into existence. It came into existence be-  cause mankind had experienced the terrible dest-  ruction of life and property, the untold misery and  suffering which the last war had brought. Tired  and broken by the calamities which he had brought  upon himself, man saw no other way of savinghim-  self from eternal destruction except by '"construct-  ing the defences of peace in the minds of men". A  desire for universal peace found expression in the  creation of this Organization. It was a stupendous  task, both in its magnitude and in the intricate  character of the relationship of each Member State  with Unesco, since each Member State is fully so-  vereign, internally and externally. The vision of  its founders, the confidence of those who joined  Unesco, and the indefatigable energy of those who  were in charge of it, very soon brought into exist-  ence a real Organization with effective machinery  for achieving its aims.
(102) Seven years is too short a time to judge  even the work of a nation, and shorter still to ev-  aluate the usefulness of an international Organiza-  tion of this nature. Yet, without being self-comp-  lacent, we can truly say that "considerable prog-  ress in the implementation of its aims and ideals  as set out in the Constitution" has been made by  Unesco. Unesco has given us at least an earnest  of the great things it is capable of achieving. We  do not by any means claim that Unesco has attain-  ed its ideals - we are still a long way from full  and final achievement; but we can claim with pride  and satisfaction that we have made a good start  and that we have given a good account of ourselves,  meriting the confidence and trust of the nations of  the world.
(103) Unesco is only one of the Specialized Agen-  cies of the United Nations; but it is Unesco that  can advance the cause of building a lasting peace  more effectively than any other international org-  anization. How far the United Nations has been  successful in the task that it has undertaken is not  for us here to judge; but there is no doubt that  Unesco will succeed earlier and more effectively,  because of its fundamental approach - an approach  to the minds and hearts of men. Our Constitution  states: "that since wars begin in the minds of men,  it is in the minds of men thatthe defences of peace  must be constructed". In view of this can Unesco  shut its eyes to the world tensions which are fast  becoming more serious. Can Unesco decline to  take the initiative ?
(104) The fear envisaged in the text of the reso-  lution is not an imaginary fear. The "present-day  tensions threatening world peace and freedom"  constitute a state of affairs which we can see for  PLENARY MEETINGS  ourselves. The nations of the world are already  feeling the pressure of this tension. Great powers  are preparing for conflict, and the world is once  more on the brink of war; if there is another war  it will be a most terrible one of complete self-  destruction for mankind. In these circumstances,  the very least that we in Unesco can do is to call  upon "Member States to increase in all possible  ways their efforts for the development of the work  of Unesco, in order to further objectives of inter-  national peace, mutual understanding and the com-  mon welfare of mankind", since we are sworn to  pursue these ideals.
(105) Unesco, which is now the "conscience! of the  world, can make a call upon its members to put  more money, more energy and more driving force  into its activities for the achievement of its objects,  which are international peace and mutual under-  standing. These ideals can only be attained by  greater effort, greater zeal and greater sacrifice,  A few thousands of dollars given by each nation,  intensification of the work of each National Com-  mission, deeper and more extensive co-operation  between the intellectuals of the world, mass com-  munication on a wider scale - these do not involve  too much effort or sacrifice for building a lasting  peace in a world torn with conflicting ideologies.  Nations are today armed to the teeth, waiting and  watching with distrust and dismay the varying  moves and counter moves by one against the other;  a breach of the peace would bring misery and suf-  fering to millions of men, women and children.  These are the tensions and the fears which are  threatening world peace. It is in this field, at  this moment, that Unesco can raise a voice which  should sound in the corridors of time and space  calling upon each Member State to keep the pledge  made to humanity when Unesco was formed. I  therefore support this resolution.
(106) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Pakistan and call upon the representative of the  Organization of American States.
(107) Mr. Amoroso LIMA (Organization of Amer-  ican States) - (Translation from the French) Mr.  President, gentlemen, speakers from this rost-  rum today have mentioned many great names,  from Dante to Giraudoux and the surrealist. I  would beg you to think for one moment of another  great name, that of Balzac. You have all read  Balzac's series of novels "Les Parents pauvres'  ("The Poor Relations"); now, observers are the  poor relations of international conferences.
(108) In our schools in Brazil, we have the "'music  bench", which is the bench right at the back where  one can make a lot of noise without being noticed  by the master. Well, observers sit on the "music  bench". You will all testify that the observers at  this Conference have not made any noise; they  have not taken advantage of their privileged posi-  tion on the "music bench". After sitting on that  - 264 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  bench for the past month, I shall not tell you whe-  ther I think this Conference has been a conference  of symphonic music or of polyphonic music or even  of atonal music. I will spare you the comments of  one of your observers; but I should like to thank  you, the General Committee of the Conference, the  Secretariat of Unesco and its Departments, and all  the delegates, for the cordial way in which you  have welcomed the Conference's poor relations.
(109) Youwill all agree with me that Unesco should  not be merely an Organization of governments.  Unesco strives also to be a gathering of individual  personalities; a union of international non-govern-  mental organizations and specialized groups. That  is why observers exist. In this connexion I should  like to make a recommendation - in my own name  and that of my Organization only, for I have no  authority to speak for the other observers, my  companions on the "music bench" - to the effect  that, since we all agree that Unesco should be a  dynamic and creative force in this battle for peace  through culture of which it is the symbol, the scope  of Unesco be extended at the Eighth Session of the  General Conference and more serious considera-  tion be given to the comments of observers.
(110) Why should observers not be given a status  in Unesco? Why should a small Committee of Ob-  servers not be set up at the Eighth Session at  Montevideo? Why should observers, who are ad-  visers to various organizations - some of them,  which I need not mention by name, being of im-  mense importance - not be allowed to form work-  ing parties? I will leave you to think over that  recommendation, for the time has come for us to  bid each other farewell; it is always a time of  sadness, which we call "Saudades" in Portuguese,  or "'Sehnsucht'' as the Germans say; we bid each  other farewell in the hope that we shall meet again  in happier and more hopeful circumstances. I  make this recommendation in order that Unesco  may really become a great Organization, enjoying  the dynamic support and arousing the keen enthus-  iasm of States, individuals and groups. I would  merely draw your attention to it, adding two final  words: Happy Christmas.
(111) The PRESIDENT - I thank the representa-  tive of the Organization of American States. The  leader of the Indian delegation has asked to speak.
(112) Mr. H.S. MALIK (India) - Mr. President,  it is for me a very great honour, a privilege and  a pleasure, on behalf of the General Conference,  to express to you our gratitude and appreciation  of the magnificent work that you have done. La-  dies and gentlemen, you were gracious enough at  the beginning of this session to do my country the  honour of electing one of her great and distin-  guished sons as your President. Unfortunately,  Dr. Radhakrishnan had to leave a few days later  and in his place, to our very great joy, you chose  as Acting President Mr. Sharif of Pakistan, a
11-25  neighbour and, so to speak, a ''member of the  family". The task of a President of the General  Conference, even in normal times, is a heavy one;  but, as the distinguished delegate of the United  States of America has said, this has been a diffi-  cult Conference, and on you, Sir, has fallen the  burden of steering the ship through difficult waters.  You have done so with great courtesy, tact, and  patience.
(113) When our former Director-General tendered  his resignation we were all thrown into a state of  consternation. I do not think this is an over-  statement. I wish to pay tribute to that great man  for the dignity with which he conducted himself on  that occasion and the spirit of self-sacrifice he  showed; his subsequent conduct helped a great  deal in the resolution of the crisis. But it is you,  Sir, who have had the difficult task of bringing this  Conference to a successful and happy conclusion.  On behalf of all of us, I express to you our deep  gratitude and appreciation for the fine work that  you have done.
(114) The PRESIDENT - I am overwhelmed by  your kindness. I now put the resolution contained  in document 7C/DR/102 before the Conference.  Those in favour of the resolution? Those against?  Any abstentions? Adopted unanimously.  CLOSING SPEECHES
(115) The PRESIDENT - We are now drawing to-  wards the close of the session but, before we con-  clude, I have great pleasure in welcoming to the  rostrum the distinguished leader of the French  delegation, Mr. André Marie,
(116) Mr. André MARIE (France) - (Translation  from the French) Mr. President, ladies and gent-  lemen, speaking in the name of the French delega-  tion, I should like once again to say how proud and  happy is France to greet the General Conference  and how much it appreciates the honour done it  yesterday, the anniversary of the adoption of the  Universal Declaration of Human Rights; how much,  too, it rejoices at the substantial progress made  during the present session in the question of the  permanent Headquarters of the Organization.
(117) Following anxious hours during which Unesco  was deprived of its most able, devoted and single-  minded of leaders, Mr. Torres Bodet, our debt to  whom in all the causes we hold dear can never be  expressed; and after the departure of its distin-  guished President, Dr. Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan,  the Conference was fortunate enoughto discover in  Mr. Sharif a sagacious President whose strong yet  prudent leadership helped to conduct many difficult  discussions to conclusions which justify our com-  plete faith in the destinies of the Organization.
(118) There is no doubt that we have been sum-  moned tothis Conference to discharge a singularly  - 265 -
11-25  arid duty, the shaping, patching and refashioning  of a budget that is hard to balance.
(119) Nevertheless, I am surethat I am once again  expressing the opinion of all delegations when I say  that it is our duty to make the best of all the re-  sources that are left to us, under conditions all the  more difficult because the budget is a two-year one.  In the days to come we must hope that menwho are  now devoting milliards to maintain peace while  preparing for war will learn to set aside a few of  those milliards to maintain peace while preparing  also for peace.
(120) Let us keep intact our faith in the future of  the Organization, whatever disappointments we  may meet with, whatever momentary setbacks we  may experience. It will be to the honour of our  time that nearly seventy nations, representing two-  thirds of the world's population, have come toge-  ther to understand each other better and to join  their efforts in a single-hearted love of peace.
(121) A few weeks ago, gentlemen, after those  agitating discussions which, alas, robbed us of  our dear friend, Mr. Torres Bodet, a pessimist  among us referred to the malicious pleasure that  would be felt by all the enemies of international  co-operation at this dramatic evidence of discord  between the governments at the Conference. And  one speaker rightly answered: ''Let us preserve  our optimism, we have so many things in common".
(122) Indeed we have many things in common -  our devotion to education, science and culture to  ensure the social advancement of man, our unfail-  ing loyalty in the fight for Human Rights through-  out the world, our belief in the universality of  Mindand in its mission ofleading mankind towards  a peaceful future.
(123) It is in the name of all those shared ideals  that the French delegation, in expressing to you  its warm thanks and wishing you a cordial "Au  revoir', appeals to you from the bottom of its  heart to work with equal zeal for a great and united  Unesco.
(124) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  France and call upon the Acting Director-General.
(125) The ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL - Mr.  President, honourable delegates, at this late hour  I am not going to make a speech. I do not propose  to discuss the programme again; I only wish to  say that, in a very short time, the Secretariat and  I will get to work on it.
(126) The Technical Assistance Board is meeting  this week in New York. I have had information  from Dr. Adiseshiah that the Executive Chairman  of the Board is making proposals which might re-  sult in the allocation to Unesco of less funds than  we shall obligate this year, while other Agencies  will probably receive as muchas or more than they  will obligate this current year.
(127) One other thing: I hope that your govern-  ments and mine, in the course of the next two  Director-General,  PLENARY MEETINGS  years, will see fit to support our programme in a  larger way. And I am sure that I express the hope  of everyone here that, when we meet in Monte-  video, there will be peace in the world.
(128) The PRESIDENT - Ladies and gentlemen,  we have now come to the end of the Seventh Ses-  sion of the General Conference of Unesco. Before  I declare the session closed, I should like to thank  you with the utmost sincerity for having conferred  upon me the honour of acting as your President.  This is, indeed, an honour to my country. You  will agree that it has been a very eventful session,  a session at which, more than at any previous one,  the President needed the active support and co-  operation of all the delegations; and I am particu-  larly grateful for having received such co-opera-  tion in a very generous measure. I have had to  conduct delicate negotiations and I have always  found courtesy, consideration, kindness and the  desire to help me in my task. I should also like  to thank the Secretariat for their assistance; for  them the session was unduly strenuous, and I know  how hard they worked to keep up with the day-to-  day programme.
(129) The generous remarks of the delegate of the  United States of America, of Mr. Malik and of the  Minister of Education of France touched me deeply.  I am very grateful to them.
(130) No one regretted more than I that our dis-  tinguished colleague, Dr. Radhakrishnan, was  called away on urgent affairs at an early stage in  our proceedings. However, it was not too early  for us to have benefited from the skill and wisdom  he brought to the performance of his duties as  President of this Conference.
(131) Ladies and gentlemen, every session of the  General Conference has its own problems and dif-  ficulties. They are inherent in the range and mul-  tiplicity of the tasks assigned to the Organization  by its Constitution. There is always the basic  problem of adjusting our programme activities to  the means at our disposal. But you will agree that  the difficulties which we have faced during the last  month have been greater, both in degree and in  kind, than at any previous session of the General  Conference. In the resignation of Mr. Torres  Bodet, Unesco lost a great leader, a Director-  General of deep faith, great vision, energy and  ability. We are fortunate, however, to have in  Mr. Taylor an experienced official who, as Acting  was able to steer ‘the prog-  ramme skilfully through the Conference. The story  of this session is, first of all, the story of the most  serious crisis in the history of the Organization.  It is, then, the story of how that crisis was passed,  thanks to the faith in Unesco of the representatives  of the Member States and to their determination  that Unesco should overcome bravely the temporary  faulterings that are inevitable inthe life of any vital  and growing Organization.
(132) The programme which you have adopted for  - 266 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  the Organization's activities during the next two  years necessarily invelves compressions and re-  ductions. Inevitably, sacrifices have had to be  made and there are bound to be disappointments.  I am happy, however, that the Conference has ad-  opted the resolution presented by the Indian dele-  gation and supported by the delegations of the Uni-  ted States of America and Pakistan. This resolu-  tion stresses the immensity and urgency of the task  lying ahead and calls upon Member States to in-  crease their efforts for the development of Unes-  co's work,
(133) Let us hope that the crisis we underwent has
11-25  strengthened our inner convictions, for Unesco's  vitality will depend upon the force of these convic-  tions even more than on any outward actionwe may  take. Let us hope, further, that the sacrifice of  the Director-General will not be in vain. May it  arouse the conscience of Member States, so that at  the coming sessions of the General Conference  means will be available to carryout fully the tasks  of the Organization. Fellow delegates, ladies and  gentlemen, I now declare the Seventh Session of  the General Conference closed.  The meeting rose at 6.15 p. m.  = 267 -