II-11  for a methodical examination of these far-reaching  possibilities.
(143) Technical assistance, too, raises similar  problems, although in different terms - I mean,  problems of the same sort for the harmonization of  Unesco's world-wide activities with those pursued  by its Member States in their bilateral relations.  There again, by the experience it has accumulated,  the prestige it has acquired, the contacts it has  established and the agreements it has concluded,  Unesco can look forward to an expansion of con-  structive work, provided the objectives to be  attained have been clearly thought out and the nec-  essary means provided. For, in the last resort,  we are always driven back to the notion of develop-  ment, which is the sacred law of life.
(144) The discussion in which, every year, Unes-  co's various activities are weighed one against the  other cannot bear indefinitely on a difference of a  few hundred thousand dollars in the budget figure -  a difference barely equivalent to the cost of a  school, not to make other comparisons. The ques-  tion at issue is one of faith in the capacity of intel-  lectual methods and values to contribute to inter-  national peace and social advancement. But we  must realize that faith always imposes sacrifices.
(145) May I, in conclusion, remind you of one of  PLENARY MEETINGS  the finest pictures painted by Vermeer of Delft.  That picture is now in Vienna and is called "The  Studio" or "The Allegory of Painting". The setting  is a light and richly furnished room, in XVIIth-  century Holland. A young girl, modest and unas-  suming but crowned with laurels, symbolizes fame,  The painter - possibly Vermeer himself - is  bending before her at his easel, with his back  towards us. We cannot see his face; he does not  tell us his secret. He is working humbly, silently,  absorbed in his subject, in a state of complete  self-abnegation. He offers us a magnificent exam-  ple of wisdom. In contemplating the future of  Unesco - a Unesco not yet, alas, crowned with  laurels - our attitude should be that of the myster-  ious creator of Delft before his model, impersonal  and attentive. Amid the diversity which is the  wealth of our Organization, we can meet in a sup-  reme communion - a communion of devotion to the  task to which we have set our hand.
(146) The work of the Conference has hardly be-  gun. I should be most reluctant to delay it. Unesco  is awaiting the resolutions that you are called upon  to take to ensure its future.  The meeting rose at 6.30 p. m.  ELEVENTH PLENARY MEETING  Tuesday, 18 November 1952, at 10.45 a.m.  President: Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS (United Kingdom)  CONTENTS  Postponement of consideration of Items 11 and 12 of the  Agenda .
(1) The PRESIDENT - I call the meeting to order.  Under the Rules of Procedure, the General Com-  mittee must fix the hour, date and order of business  of the General Conference. I now have a statement  to make on behalf of the General Committee.  The General Committee, noting that not all  the delegations have as yet received precise  instructions in item 12 of the Agenda, has de-  cided that consideration of this item shall be  of ei ny re fal tee 152  postponed until tomorrow afternoon, at 3.30 p.m.  The consideration of item 11 is also postponed.  MayI assume that that is agreeable to the mem-  bers of the Conference.... In that case the meet-  ing stands adjourned until tomorrow, Wednesday,  at 3.30 p.m.  The meeting rose at 11 a.m.  - 152 -