PLENARY  the State of Nepal has expressed its willingness to  abide by the Constitution;  Whereas, in accordance with Article II of the  Agreement between the United Nations and the Uni-  ted Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural  Organization, this application has been submitted  to the Economic and Social Council of the United  Nations;  Whereas the Economic and Social Council, at its  Fourteenth Session, decided to inform the United  Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organ-  ization that it had no objection to the admission of  the State of Nepal to the Organization;  And whereas, in virtue of this decision, the Exe-  cutive Board, at its Thirtieth Session, decided to  recommendto the General Conference that the State  of Nepalbe admitted as a Member of the Organiza-  tion,  Decides to.admit the State of Nepal to member-  ship of the United Nations Educational, Scientific  and Cultural Organization.  Sir Ben Bowen Thomas  the Chair.  (United Kingdom) took
(64) The PRESIDENT - Are there any observa-  tions? If not, we will proceed to the roll-call  vote.  MEETINGS II-13
(65) The vote was taken by roll-call.  Voted infavour: Afghanistan, Australia, Austria,  Belgium, Brazil, Burma (Union of), Cambodia,  Canada, Ceylon, Colombia, Costa Rica, Denmark,  Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador,  France, German Federal Republic, Greece, Haiti,  Hondurus, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel,  Italy, Japan, Jordan, Korea, Laos, Lebanon, Lib-  eria, Luxembourg, Mexico, Monaco, Netherlands,  New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, Pakistan, Pan-  ama, Peru, Philippines, Sweden, Switzerland,  Syria, Thailand, Turkey, Union of South Africa,  United Kingdom, United States of America, Uru-  guay, Venezuela, Viet-Nam,  Voted against: None.  Abstained: None.  Absent: Cuba, Saudi-Arabia, Yugoslavia.
(66)  is:  The PRESIDENT - The result of the roll-call  for: 55; against: 0; abstentions: 0; absent: 3.  Nepal is therefore elected a Member of this  Organization.  I understand that there is no representative of  Nepal present, so I cannot have the pleasure of  calling upon anyone to give us greetings.  The meeting rose at 4.45 p.m.  THIRTEENTH PLENARY MEETING  Thursday, 20 November 1952, at 4 p.m.  President: Dr. SARVEPALLI RADHAKRISHNAN (India)  later: Mr. PAUL MONTEL (France)  CONTENTS  Decision on the place of the Eighth Session of the  General Conference . . .  Report of the Legal Committee and of the Administra-
159  tive Commission on the question of China's right to  vote  DECISION ON THE PLACE OF THE EIGHTH SESSION  OF THE GENERAL CONFERENCE
(1) The PRESIDENT - The meeting is called to  order. I shall now request the Chairman of the
168  Executive Board to move the resolution regarding  the place of the Eighth Session of the General Con-  ference.  Chairman of the (2) Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil),  - 159 -   II-13  Executive Board - (Translation from the French)  Mr. President, at its Thirty-first Session, the  Executive Board adopted the following resolution:  "The Executive Board,  Considering that the Government of Uruguay in-  vited Unesco's General Conference, in communica-  tions dated 5 June 1950 and 13 January 1951, to  hold its Seventh Session at Montevideo, that it has  agreed to provide the Conference, free of charge,  with the requisite services, premises, equipment  and supplies, and to grant it the privileges, im-  munities and facilities laid down in the Convention  of 16 November 1947 on the privileges and im-  munities of the Specialized Agencies;  Considering that the General Conference, at its  Sixth Session, wished to express its profound gra-  titude to the Government of Uruguay for its gene-  rous: offer, and strongly recommended that the  Conference should gratefully accept this invitation,  suggesting that it hold its Eighth Session at Mon-  tevideo;  Considering that H. E. the Uruguayan Ambassa-  dor to France, in a letter of 14 March 1952 ad-  dressed tothe Director-General of Unesco, renewed  his Government's earlier invitation and confirmed  acceptance of Unesco's conditions, and today, 20  November 1952, in a letter addressed to the Pre-  sident of the General Conference, confirms and  ratifies the previous offers to hold the Eighth Ses-  sion of the General Conference in Montevideo;  Recommends to the General Conference that it  hold its Eighth Ordinary Session in Montevideo."
(3) The PRESIDENT  Yugoslavia.  - I call upon the delegate of
(4) Mr. RIBNIKAR (Yugoslavia) - (Translation  from the French) The General Conference did in  fact assume a moral obligation last year and it is  “only natural that the Executive Board should re-  commend that we accept the invitation. We should  all like to go to Montevideo in two years' time. I  ‘ can assure the Uruguayan delegation that the Yugo-  slav delegation would be as happy as anyone to go  to Montevideo. But we do not yet know what our  financial resources will be. Everything depends  on what budget ceiling the Conference is going to  fix; this is something we have to bear in mind.  For that reason I advised the Executive Board this  morning to be cautious in deciding on the place of  the Conference's Eighth Session. I have no speci-  fic proposal to make, but I must warn the General  Conference against taking a decision prematurely.
(5) The PRESIDENT  the United Kingdom.  - I call upon the delegate of
(6) Sir Ben Bowen THOMAS (United Kingdom) -  Mr. President and fellow delegates, the United  Kingdom delegation must regretfully oppose the  proposal to hold the Eighth Session of the General  Conference in Montevideo. This arises simply  PLENARY MEETINGS  from the fact that Unesco cannot afford it; nor can  we afford the loss of efficiency which such a jour-  ney would involve - loss of efficiency in terms of  staff work and in terms of the inevitably small  attendance of Member States and the small dele-  gations that those attending would be able to send.  It is extremely hard to say this. First, because it  must be bad manners to decline so generous an in-  vitation, twice renewed, by our friends from Uru-  guay; we deeply regret the fact that we find our-  selves in this very unpleasant position. Secondly,  we should all like to go to a country which most of  us have never seen; I am one of the great majority  who has never seen the Southern Cross. Thirdly,  we honour Uruguay for its culture, its traditions  of liberty and freedom, and its generous hospita-  lity throughout the years, particularly to political  refugees. In making this unpleasant decision, let  us enjoy the virtuous feeling of those who are pre-  pared to take the hard way, and be glad in the  knowledge that, if we proceed in it, we shall set  free resources that are badly needed for important  programme work.
(7) The PRESIDENT - I call upon the delegate of  Brazil.
(8) Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil) - (Translation from  the French) Ladies and gentlemen, the Brazilian  delegation considers that it is part of Unesco's  programme to hold its General Conference in a  different country or region of the world each year.  This is not simply a gesture of courtesy to the in-  viting country, nor is it a mere excursion. Unesco  travels across the world and holds its Conference  now in one continent, now in another, that it may  the better carry out its programme, which is des-  igned, first and foremost, to foster international  fellowship and to bring the peoples closer together  through cultural interchange. We have strictly  followed the principles underlying our Constitution  in visiting a few of our various Member States in  turn; but, unfortunately, once more, the geogra-  phical distribution has been far from perfect. Five  of the seven sessions have been held in Europe,  three of those five in Paris.
(9) At the Executive Board's meeting today, I said  that Paris was the prototype of Unesco. Of all the  world's capitals, Paris has least to receive from,  and most to give to, Unesco. It is the meeting-  place of all our civilizations and the well-spring of  the great streams of modern thought. It would  therefore be inappropriate for us to hold our next  session there. We should go to places to which we  can take the cultural inspiration with which Paris  has imbued us during the years we have met here.  We should go to places in need of the experience  embodied in Unesco's publications, experience to  which each of its committees and seminars makes  its contribution. All the Latin American countries  have unanimously supported the idea of holding a  session in Uruguay, because in their view that  - 160 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  small country of our continent combines all the  conditions required for spreading the message en-  trusted to it by Unesco. This little country of  great minds, this homeland of freedom of thought  and all other freedoms, is an ideal rostrum from  which to speak to our continent.
(10) We ask you, Mr. President, to make it clear  to the Conference that, if it goes to Montevideo in
1954, it will also save money. There are many  problems which it would cost more to solve in the  Americas by indirect means than by going to study  them on the spot; out there all delegations will be  able to help the Latin American countries to solve  their problems. What fitter spot could there be to  plant the standard of fundamental education of which  Unesco is the bearer than our continent, where 60  per cent of the people are illiterate ?
(11) Nor must we forget the problems that have a  direct bearing on the growth of our membership  or the strengthening of our ties with certain Mem-  ber States. There are at least two States on the  American continent which we should be glad to see  among us but whichare not yet Members of Unesco;  there is one which has strayed rather far afield.  Let us stretch out the hand of brotherhood towards  them and draw them into, or back to, the fold.  There will be plenty for us to do, and I can assure  you that all the countries of Latin America will  combine to welcome you to Montevideo.
(12) The PRESIDENT - I now call upon the dele-  gate of India.
(13) Mr. K. G. SAIYIDAIN (India) - Mr. President  and fellow delegates, it is difficult for me to im-  prove upon the gracious manner in which the dele-  gate of the United Kingdom has expressed his pro-  found regret at having to take what is the hard way.  I should, therefore, only like to assure the Uru-  guayan delegation which has extended this invitation  that it is with deep and profound regret that the  Indian delegation feels compelled not to support  the proposal to hold the next session of the Con-  ference at Montevideo.
(14) Some of the reasons have already been poin-  ted out. I should like particularly to emphasize  that it is not only because about $550,000 will have  to be spent by Unesco in organizing the Conference  there, or because for four or five months the work  of the Secretariat will be considerably interrupted  by the Conference's being held away from head-  quarters, but also because a large number of  States - particularly the smaller States in Asia,  South East Asia and Australia - will have to spend  far more money in sending their delegations to  attend this Conference. We are afraid this would  mean that, in the case of a number of countries,  either the delegations may be very small and com-  paratively ineffective, or that some of the coun-  tries may be unable to send any delegations at all.
(15) We have been talking a great deal about the  possibilities of effecting reasonable economies.  II-13  It has been said in this Conference over and over  again - at least this is the opinion of the Indian  delegation - that, while we should not fix a rigid  ceiling for our budget (which should be regarded  as a growing and expanding budget for a growing  and expanding sphere of activities), reasonable  economies should be made wherever possible and  the money so made available should be utilized for  the development of the actual projècts.
(16) These are our reasons for agreeing with the  views which the delegates of Yugoslavia and the  United Kingdom have already expressed. With  reference to the very eloquent and impassioned  .plea made by the Chairman of the Executive Board,  for whom I have profound admiration, I beg to dis-  agree with the argument that he has put forward.  I think we should be flattering ourselves far too  much if we thought that the education of a partieu-  lar country in the fields of culture, science and  the other objectives of Unesco would depend a great  deal on the Conference's being held there. If we  want the various countries of the world to receive  the message of Unesco, that too has to be done the  hard way. It has to be done through the National  Commissions; it has to be done through winning  over the fullest co-operation of the Member States  themselves; it has to be done through our publica-  tions, our programmes and our projects. I have  no doubt that the capital of the particular country  in which this Conference is held would benefit a  great deal from association with so many distin-  guished delegates, who would themselves enjoy  this valuable experience. I do, however, feel that  it is exaggerating the situation to say that it would  have a profound influence in educating the whole of  that country in the ideas of Unesco; and even if we  did accept this argument, it would take at least 60  years to go round the world to educate all the Mem-  ber States concerned by this particular method of  education. So, if we are to take the rough with the  smooth and weigh all considerations, I am inclined  to think that the situation as it existed last year,  when we had this gracious invitation before us and  decided that, in view of the financial conditions,  we could not afford to hold the Conference in Mon-  tevideo, exists as emphatically now as it did then.
(17) I am not at the moment advocating that in the  future the sessions should always be held in Paris;  there is a proposal that there should be a small  working committee to consider this question and  place its views before the Conference in due course.  But I do suggest that while we are "running with  the hare" we should not also "hunt with the hounds"!  We should not be so moved by emotional pleas as  to spurn a method of economy which appears to be  reasonable and which, in the overall interests of  Unesco, deserves to be supported. So I would res-  pectfully submit that, while conveying our profoun-  dest thanks to the Government of Uruguay for their  gracious invitation, we also make it clear that for  these various reasons it is not possible for us to  accept this invitation for the present.  = 161 -
(18) The PRESIDENT - I call upon the delegate of  France.
(19) Mr. MONTEL (France) - (Translation from  the French) Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen,  the remarkable qualities which the distinguished  Chairman of the Executive Board has, in his elo-  quence, I feel, too kindly, attributed to my country  mean - if it is admitted that we possess any of  them - that France is better equipped than other  countries to absorb and assimilate what Unesco has  to teach her. That, however, is not the subject on  which I want to address you now; I simply wish to  tell you that we have a moral obligation towards  Uruguay and that we have material difficulties to  contend with. What we have to decide is how far  these material difficulties will prevent us from ful-  filling our moral obligation.
(20) I agree with the Chairman of the Executive  Board that our mere presence in Latin America  would be so efficacious in spreading our message  that it would compensate us in part for our efforts  and save us subsequent effort and expense. For  that reason, the French delegation accepts, and  will vote in favour of, the resolution submitted by  the Executive Board.
(21) The PRESIDENT - I call upon the delegate of  the Union of South Africa.
(22) Mr. H. T. ANDREWS (Union of South Africa) -  Mr. President, fellow delegates, I am sure this is  the first time that the South African delegation has  ever had cause to oppose a resolution put forward  by the distinguished Chairman of the Executive  Board, and I think and hope that it will be the last  occasion. The distinguished delegates of the Uni-  ted Kingdom and of India have put forward what, in  my delegation's view, are very cogent reasons why  we should not support the resolution before the  Conference. Let me say that no delegation is more  grateful for the generous, cordial invitation that  has come to us from Uruguay; and I am quite sure  that there is no delegation to this Conference that  would not wish to take advantage of that very hos-  pitable and friendly invitation. But let us be rea-  listic. If there was one note that was struck in the  course of the general debate on the Director-  General's Report, it was surely that we should con-  Serve our resources.
(23) As the delegate of India has pointed out in  most explicit terms, this would involve our Organ-  ization in something like more than half a million  dollars extra expenditure in 1954. I think that if  we-delegates are to earn the respect of our govern-  ments, we should take those figures into account.  It was my privilege to suggest during the general  debate that money saved in that direction might  very well be spent on the priorities of our most  important programme. It is with great regret that  the South African delegation finds itself unable to  support the resolution before the Conference; but  PLENARY MEETINGS  we hope very much that, when we are able to afford  these things a little better, the invitation from that  magnificent country, Uruguay, will still be open  to us.
(24) The PRESIDENT - I call upon the delegate of  China.
(25) Mr. Yuan-ning WEN (China) - Mr. President  and colleagues, during this session of the Confer-  encel have played very much the partof a listener,  as have most of the members of our delegation.  While listening, I have heard a good deal of talk  about our ideals - ideals to bring about interna-  tional understanding. But in this particular case -  and in another I will not mention now - when some-  thing practical is brought up where those ideals  can be put into practice, what happens? Those  ideals are shuffled out by the back door.
(26) The reasons given this time by many eloquent  speakers against the next session of the General  Conference being held in Montevideo are mostly  financial. What is the purpose of Unesco, in any  case? Surely, it is to bring about international  understanding. We are told that $500,000 more  are necessary inorder to hold the session in Mon-  tevideo; to bring the message of Unesco to the  great peoples of the South American continent, to  let them know the ideals of Unesco - this will cost  $500, 000 more. Is that a good reason for oppos-  ing it? Should we not find ways and means of cut-  ting down on something else in order to realize the  possibility of meeting in Montevideo? I said just  now that it is worth it; we cannot measure things  in terms of money all the time. As I listened these  past few days, it seemed to me that the talk of  most of our delegates was opposing this and oppos-  ing that - it seemed like the pious talk of middle-  aged men. What of ideals without faith, of ideals  when it comes to applying them? They hug the  money-bags a little nearer, always thinking of:  nicely calculated "more" and "less" but always  very afraid of applying ideals. For this reason,  my delegation strongly supports the proposal made  so eloquently by the delegate of Brazil that the  Eighth Session of the General Conference of Unesco  be held in Montevideo.
(27) The PRESIDENT - I call upon the delegate of  Australia. :
(28) Mr. Charles J. A. MOSES (Australia) - Mr.  President and fellow delegates, no one would sup-  port more strongly than the Australian delegation  the idea of sending Unesco to South America. I  think it is a good thing to show the flag, and the  flag of Unesco does need to be shown in other parts  of the world. But I think we must be realistic  about this. We are at present in the dark; we do  not know what money we shall have to spend and,  until we know that, surely we should not be making  decisions that involve sums of money, whether it  - 162 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  is the $500,000 that my colleague from China is  prepared to disburse or the $286,000 extra that  my colleagues on the Budget Committee tell me it  would involve. In any case, it is a very consider-  able sum, and it is a fact that a number of delega-  tions are already concerned about the amount of  money that is set down to be spent in this budget.  They are already concerned that there is a possi-  bility of having to spend more this year than was  spent last year, and some of them I know are re-  luctant to go any further than they went last year.  It is for this reason, because of the realities, that  Australia feels it cannot support this idea.
(29) There is another point, too. There is a good  deal of cynicism in the world about Unesco; and  perhaps it is not a good thing just at this stage,  when public opinion is not sufficiently informed  about the work of Unesco, to take what does appear  to be quite an army of people across the world - I  am sure the newspapers will refer to a jaunt.
(30) Again, this question of delegations. We in  Australia were able to send here two delegates  from the other side of the world; fortunately, we  were able to call upon three more from London and  Paris. If we went to South America we could not  send more than two. I am sure there are many  countries represented here which have been able  to call upon people available in Paris or close at  hand in order to build up their delegations, to fill  them with the distinguished members they have at  their disposal today. I feel that we should postpone  this question until we know what the budget ceiling  is to be. That is the realistic approach. I should  therefore like to move, Mr. President, that this  discussion be deferred until the budget ceiling has  been fixed.
(31) The PRESIDENT - Here is an amendment to  the motion: that the discussion be deferred until  the budget ceiling has been fixed. So far as this  motion for adjournment of debate is concerned, one  speaker may speak in favour and one against before  I put it to the vote. Does any delegate wish to speak  for or against? I call upon the delegate of Jordan,
(32) Mr. Khalil SALEM (Hashemite Kingdom of  Jordan) - Mr. President, fellow delegates, as I  was listening to the debate in the Budget Committee,  I understood ‘that they decided to refer this prob-  lem to this meeting; I am afraid that when we refer  it back to the Budget Committee they will refer it  back to this meeting, and we shall be caught in a  vicious circle.
(33) The PRESIDENT - There has been one speak-  er against the motion for adjournment, and there-  fore one speaker only may speak in favour, accor-  ding to the Rules of Procedure. I call upon the  delegate of Yugoslavia.
(34) Mr. RIBNIKAR (Yugoslavia) - (Translation  from the French) I should not like the remarks I  II-13  made just now to be misunderstood. All I had in  mind was to give the Conference a warning. I be-  lieve it is really too early to take a decision at  this stage and I therefore support the motion for  adjournment.
(35) The PRESIDENT - The motion for adjourn-  ment of the debate is before the house; I think we  should have a roll-call vote on it.
(36) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL - (Translation  from the French) Mr. President, I have no wish  to intervene in this discussion, but it is my duty to  tell you, speaking from the administrative point of  view, that the Administrative Commission yester-  day decided to consult you on this very matter, so  that I do not know whether, according to the deci-  sion you take now, the question may not have to be  sent back to that Commission. It would perhaps  be as well to consult the Commission on that point.  Its Chairman is with us here; perhaps he would  like to say a few words.
(37) The PRESIDENT - I call upon Mr. Evans.
(38) Mr. Luther EVANS (United States of America),  Chairman of the Administrative Commission - Mr.  President, in the Administrative Commission we  were engaged yesterday in discussing the frame-  work of a resolution which would be presented for  your consideration in deciding upon the budget cei-  ling. We wrestled with various drafts, leaving  certain blank spaces where the figures would be  written in. In developing that draft for your con-  sideration, we found ourselves almost powerless  to decide the framework of the resolution without  writing into it a decision either for or against going  to Montevideo. We wrestled with putting it in, we  wrestled with leaving it out; then we wrestled with  putting both forms in, and we finally decided, by  an overwhelming majority, that it would be impos-  sible for this General Conference to set its ceiling  until after it had taken a vote on the seat of the next  session of the Conference. I am merely trying to  reflect here the views of the Administrative Com-  mission, which wrestled with this problem at great  length, and I am not presuming at this time to  speak on behalf of my delegation,
(39) The PRESIDENT - You know now why the Ad-  ‘ministrative Commission deferred decision on this  particular matter. The motion for adjournment of  the debate is before the house. I shall ask Uruguay  to speak later on the main motion. The delegate  of Australia wishes to speak on the motion for ad-  journment ?
(40) Mr. Charles J. A. MOSES (Australia) - I  should like to withdraw my motion as I was un-  aware of the facts.
(41) The PRESIDENT - The motion for adjourn-  - 163 -   II-13  ment is now withdrawn. I call upon the delegate of  Uruguay.
(42) Mr. Oscar SECCO ELLAURI (Uruguay) -  (Translation from the Spanish) Mr. President,  ladies and gentlemen, it would be impossible for  me to advance any more cogent or better developed  arguments in favour of my country's desire that the  next session of the General Conference should be  held in Montevideo than those which Mr. Carneiro,  the Brazilian delegate, put forward at the beginning  of this discussion. He spoke as if he had over-  heard our own talks and expressed perfectly the  views of Uruguay, andof Latin America as a whole.  He showed once more by what he said that Uruguay  and Brazil invariably stand shoulder to shoulder  in international conferences.
(43) I should, however, like to remind the meet-  ing of one aspect of the problem which has received  hardly any but a passing glance. The question  whether the next session of the General Confer-  ence should be held at the Paris headquarters or  in Montevideo is not one for this session of the  Conference to decide; it is merely a matter of  giving effect to the previous session's decision.  At the last session of the Conference in Paris, it  was, almost unanimously, decided that the next  should be held in Montevideo; action was deferred  only for reasons temporarily applying at a time of  financial stringency, and it was understood that our  wishes would be fulfilled on a later occasion. That  occasion has now arrived.
(44) Uruguay reiterated its desire that its capital  should be honoured by a visit from the world's  most distinguished intellects because it believed  that immediate effect would be given to that agree-  ment between the two parties clearly set forth at  the last Conference. I feel that you should bear  that aspect of the problem in mind, for, to me at  least, it seems decisive.
(45) Turning to another question, I may ask what  valid argument has been put forward in this meet-  ing against our holding the next session away from  headquarters? The only question raised has been  the financial one. I have no wish to speak slight-  ingly of financial considerations; far from it. Fin-  ancial problems weigh far too heavily upon us, both  as private individuals and as members of a national  community, for us to treat them lightly, as if a  trifle more or less were of no importance. I was  greatly struck, however, by the fact that the fig-  ures quoted by delegates bore little relation to one  another. The Australian delegate, for ‘example,  assessed the sum required for a Conference in  Montevideo at one million dollars, while the rep-  resentative of another delegation spoke of five hun-  dred thousand dollars. What we have to consider,  however, is not the million that the General Con-  ference would cost but the difference between the  two possible figures, which is considerably less.  I would therefore ask the President to tell the Con-  ference, when I have finished speaking, what exac-  PLENARY MEETINGS  tly would be the cost of holding the Conference in  Paris, and how much more it would cost to hold it  in Montevideo.
(46) In conclusion, I am glad that the Conference  has rejected the motion for the adjournment of the  discussion, for although we have a financial prob-  lem to consider, finance always goes hand in hand  with policy, at least in the life of institutions and  that of States. The problem facing the private in-  dividual is to adjust his policy to his finances. But  the progress of States and institutions depends on  the ability of the men who govern them to adjust  their finances to their policy. Is the question of  the Conference's place of meeting a matter of mi-  nor importance? If it were, we should not be ask-  ing any financial effort of you. The other day the  leader of our delegation mentioned that Uruguay,  recognizing thatit has been enriched by what Unesco  has given it, and realizing that what Uruguay has  received outweighs the burdens it has had to bear  as a Member State, would be in favour of a policy  of prudent finance. Those considerations apply  solely, however, to cases where we have to assess  and reduce expenses which can properly be regar-  ded as unimportant. The question whether or not  to change the meeting place of the Conference can-  not be regarded as unimportant to Unesco's policy.  The contrary is implicit in the Constitution, which  categorically lays down that the Conference shall  be held in a different place every year; and even  though the categorical obligation may have been  removed, the intention is still the same, as may  be seen in every clause in the Conference's Rules  of Procedure. And when the Indian delegate, for  instance, says that the question of transport would  make things very difficult for the Eastern States,  he forgets that that argument is not universally  applicable and that it is not one which ought to in-  fluence Unesco; it is a consideration which affects  certain countries only. If we were to argue in the  same way, we should point out that, though it might  cost them more, it would cost us less; or, to put  it the other way round, if it costs them less to  come to Paris, it costs us more. I do not think,  therefore, that it can fairly be claimed that, in  this matter of travelling expenses, there should be  some permanently privileged delegations, and oth-  ers constantly at a disadvantage. I repeat, it is  laid down in the Constitution, and it is clearly its  intention, that Unesco must and should travel about  the world. We have already heard all the argu-  ments on that subject. What else is there to be  said? This - that when we, the men of America,  despite differences of habit and thought, hold out  the hand of -friendship to men from all over the  world, we resent it that such Conferences cannot  be held in our American countries, although they,  being young themselves, are among the most re-  ceptive to all that is new, constructive and fra-  ternal in the realm of the mind.
(47) As I listened to Mr. Carneiro, I, in whom a  passion for history is an old failing, remembered  - 164 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  how, in the formative years of some now mighty  nations when, before achieving nationhood, they  were still loosely-knit feudal societies, their kings  developed a shrewd and praiseworthy policy of lea-  ving their capitals to visit the peoples of the mar-  ches, as they were called, in order to strengthen  their nascent authority in the State; this was the  policy followed by some of the Plantagenets in  England and some of the Valois in France. They  realized what it meant to clothe an institution with  flesh and blood and bring it into physical touch  with those who enjoyed its benefits. How sorry I  should be if Unesco were unable to rise to the level  of those kings of long-dead dynasties!
(48) I shall end here, for I fear - and I must ask  the Chair to pardon me - that I have erred through  the strength of my feelings, a failing thatI can only  ask you to excuse on the ground that I have had  little experience of proceedings such as these. I  apologize for having spoken with such heat and at  such length and for having neglected the rule of  English oratory that the conclusion should follow  close on the beginning. I had to point out, however,  that when my country offers its capital as the site  of Unesco's Conference, it does so not from any  narrow national sentiment but with the intention of  rising to the responsibilities and commitments  which Unesco has undertaken towards the world.  If Uruguay, in the belief that it can, without con-  sulting them, lay claim to represent the Americas,  speaks on behalf of a whole continent, it has to say  that, from a mathematical analysis of the journeys  Unesco has already made, our continent has come  off rather badlyin the dispensations of Providence,  since, in our eyes, Unesco represents Providence  in that respect. I shall therefore bring my re-  marks toa close with a request that you do not dally  with this topic, for serious problems which are  allowed to drag on are a source of trouble to the  Conference. It is essential that this question of the  seat of the Conference's next session be settled,  once for all, today.
(49) The PRESIDENT - In answer to the question  raised by the delegate of Uruguay, I am informed  that the following are the figures: if the next ses-  sion of the Conference is held in Montevideo, the  General Conference will cost $527,900, and the  Executive Board, $101,916 - a total of $629, 816.
(50) Ifit is held in Paris, it will cost $269,000, and  the Executive Board, $67,800 - a total of $336,800.  The difference between holding the session in Paris  and holding it in Montevideo, taking into account ex-  penses of the General Conference as well as those  of the Executive Board, will come to $293, 000. I  call upon the delegate of Switzerland.
(51) Mr. Pierre BOURGEOIS (Switzerland) -  (Translation from the French) Mr. President, la-  dies and gentlemen, after hearing the previous  speakers, I rise to speak with some emotion. I  have to tell you, firstly, that at yesterday's meet-
11-13  ing of the Administrative Commission I was one of  the minority who voted against the proposal to sub-  mit the problem to you. My main reason was that  the constructive, practical programme of Unesco  ought to take precedence over what I should des-  cribe as administrative expenditure. The decision  went against us. I bow to the view of the majority  with the best will in the world and accept the pro-  posed procedure. Nevertheless, I would venture  to remind you that our primary concern should be  to make sure that Unesco's work is effective; and,  in that connexion, let us not forget the dangers  that would follow if the decision we are about to  take were to have unfavourable repercussions on  everything on which Unesco is already engaged.  In particular, it is extremely important to safe-  guard our current activities, We must at all costs  avoid any possibilitythat our decision on the Gene-  ral Conference may result in putting a brake on  the work to which Unesco has already set its hand.  In my view, that would be the most dangerous  thing we could do. On the other hand, I listened  carefully to the arguments put forward by the dele-  gates of France and Brazil, and I must admit that  I began to waver. As I listened to the Uruguayan  delegate, my heart leapt with the desire to go and  see his beautiful country. I am fully aware that a  session of the General Conference in Montevideo  would have an excellent effect on Unesco's publi-  city in the Latin American countries, which are  so important. and rank so high in our esteem. But  the question I ask is this: "Is it really urgent?"  I read in the letter from the Uruguayan delegation  which was handed to us a short while ago that, at  the Sixth Session, financial difficulties had preven-  ted the holding of the present session in Montevideo.  Have those difficulties really been removed? That  is the question I ask you. You cannot answer it  until we have decided on the budget ceiling, and I  beg you to remember that the decision you take is  bound to affect our subsequent voting on the budget  ceiling; for, I must repeat, it is absolutely im-  possible that the additional $293,000 which we may  have to find should be voted to the detriment of  Unesco's activities. My friend and colleague, Jean  Piaget, told us the other day that, in our view,  Unesco's programme constitutes an organic whole.  By '"programme'’, I mean Unesco's activity in the  literal sense of the term. I know how useful and  necessary a General Conference is, but I am sure  you understand what I mean when I refer to the  constructive, productive activities on which Unesco  is continuously engaged.
(52) We all agree that it would be extremely use-  ful - and agreeable, of course - to go to Montevi-  deo. The question I have put to you is crucial at  this time. As I have already told you, when I lis-  tened to the delegate of Uruguay, my only desire  was to go to Montevideo myself but, at that very  moment, I remembered the famous dictum which  I would beg you to remember: "The road to Hell  is paved with good intentions.  - 165 -   II-13
(53) The PRESIDENT - I call upon the delegate of  Cambodia.
(54) Princess PING PEANG YUKANTHOR (Cam-  bodia) -. (Translation from the French) Mr. Pre-  sident, ladies and gentlemen, I have only one thing  to add to what the previous speakers have said; I  entirely agree with the Swiss delegate and with the  Australian delegate when he said that, if the Gene-  ral Conference were held in Montevideo, his coun-  try would be able to send only very few delegates.  This does not mean that the Kingdom of Cambodia's  policy is not one of international fellowship; but  retrenchment is the order of the day. Again, I  agree with the Australian delegate when he says  that delegates can be found on the spot when the  General Conference is held in Paris.  delegates sent by Cambodia, for instance, three  are permanently resident in Paris. Only one came  from Cambodia, and even he is going to work for a  time in the Secretariat. If I considered my own  inclinations alone, I should be only too pleased to  go to South America and have the opportunity of  learning to know it. Unfortunately, I fear that the  Cambodian Government has little regard for my  personal inclinations, which would lead me to  visit every country in the world! I am afraid,  therefore, that the Cambodian Government will be  unable to send a single delegate to Montevideo.  Like all the young States, Cambodia has to orga-  nize its domestic administration, and at the same  time, to carry on a foreign relations policy. All  that makes considerable demands upon a small  country.
(65) Our political situation and the uncertainties  of the present time mean that our resources are  no longer what they were before the war. The ne-  cessity of sending delegations all over the world,  to all sorts of congresses and meetings, entails  heavy expenditure, and His Majesty the King of  Cambodia is most insistent upon a policy of econ-  omy and retrenchment. I therefore have to tell  you that, if the next session of the General Con-  ference were to be held much further away than  Paris, Cambodia might be obliged not to send a  delegation at all. :  Mr. Montel (France) took the Chair.
(56) The PRESIDENT - (Translation from the  French) I call upon the delegate of Belgium.
(57) Mr. Louis VERNIERS (Belgium) - (Transla-  tion from the French) Mr. President, I shall be  very brief. You will pardon me if, to begin with,  I attempt a few words in English. I hope my Anglo-  Saxon friends will excuse my accent. All I wish to  do is to remind you of a slogan invented by some-  one unknown - the inventors of such things usually  remain unknown - about our trip to Mexico; at that  time we often heard people say: "Join Unesco to  see the world".  Of the four:  PLENARY MEETINGS
(58) The Belgian delegation is not very fond of  travelling because travel is expensive. In these  times of financial stringency, with which most  governments are familiar, we should vote against  going to Montevideo if economy were the only con-  sideration. I would remind you, however, that the  members of the Executive Board were much dis-  tressed at being obliged to refuse Uruguay's first  invitation. Simultaneously with that refusal, they  morally committed themselves to go to Montevideo  for the next session of the Conference.
(59) I would ask you, gentlemen, to use delicate  scales - thebiochemist's rather than the grocer's -  and not to consider simply the savings in dollars  but the very considerable advantages for Unesco,  which has to serve the whole world, of making its  presence felt in all parts of the globe. I am very  much afraid that the arguments of economy which  carried the day two years ago and which are tend-  ing to sway us now, may be used as a spanner to  throw in the wheels at later meetings and that, in  the end, Unesco's conferences will always be held  in Paris. The French representative himself,  however, has generously told you: "Paris has been  honoured enough; I beg you to do honour toanother  country".
(60) I therefore propose formally that we go to  Montevideo.
(61) The PRESIDENT - (Translation from the  French) I call upon the delegate of Pakistan.
(62) Mr. S.M. SHARIF (Pakistan) - Mr. Presi-  dent, fellow delegates, I have listened with great  attention to the arguments advanced first by the  distinguished delegate of the United Kingdom and  later by the distinguished Chairman of the Execu-  tive Board - the one arguing on considerations of  economy, and the other insisting on fulfilment of  a promise made to the Uruguayan Government and  on accepting the invitation extended to the General  Conference in a spirit of friendship and cordiality.
(63) I would look at this problem from a purely  objective point of view. In the first place, the Con-  stitution of Unesco lays down that the sessions of  the General Conference should be held in different  regions of the world. It was in accordance with  this spirit that meetings have been held in Mexico,  Beirut and Florence; and until the Constitution is  changed I feel that we should follow the spirit of the  Constitution. I do not wish, at this stage, to dis-  cuss whether the sessions of the General Confer-  ence should be held in Paris or elsewhere. The  Executive Board has already appointed a working  party, and the Executive Board will in due course  present its views to the General Conference.
(64) The second point Iwish to make concerns our  moral obligation. The Uruguayan Government  very graciously extended an invitation which was  accepted by the Conference last year. On grounds  of economy it was decided to postpone this to 1954.  I should like to ask if it is advisable for this Con-  - 166 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  ference, devoted to the ideals of collaboration, to  refuse an invitation which has been accepted and  which is being extended again in a spirit of great  enthusiasm and great goodwill, not only on behalf  of the Uruguayan Government but of all the South  American States. An expenditure of $300, 000 is  considerable; but I feel that, in view of the spirit  of cordiality in which this invitation has been ex-  tended, we should not grudge this additional ex-  penditure. The United Kingdom delegation and my  colleagues of the Indian delegation emphasize the  need for economy, not only for Unesco but also in  the interest of Member States. There is no one  more conscious of this need for economy than my-  self. We have always sent a very small delegation  and are anxious that the expenditure on delegations  should be kept to the minimum. I feel, however,  that until the Constitution is changed we should  fulfil our moral obligations. We should not grudge  this additional expenditure and we should hold our  next session in Montevideo.
(65) The PRESIDENT - (Translation from the  French) Are there any further speakers? The  delegate of Lebanon.
(66) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) - (Translation from  the French) Mr, President, ladies and gentlemen,  the problem arising in connexion with the holding  of the Conference in Montevideo is not an isolated  problem. It is the same problem that confronts us  in every one of the items on the agenda of this ses-  sion and of the Organization's programme as well.  The practical difficulties are always the same when  we compare Unesco's resources with the moral  obligations it has to carry. When we consider the  programme, we find ourselves face to face with a  categorical duty, with a tremendous task on the  spiritual plane, the accomplishment of which is vi-  tal to Unesco and the nations too. In these circum-  stances, all we Member States must honour the  moral obligations that are bound up with the ex-  ecution of the programme. Surely, the holding  of Unesco's Conference in Montevideo is a moral  obligation of the same sort? Surely, we entered  into that obligation last year, at the 1951 session,  when we gave a formal promise to hold the 1954  session in Montevideo? Are we today to suggest  that the Conference should be held in Paris or  somewhere else? What would that imply? It would  imply that we were unable to honour our pledge.  What State would today consent to say, after mak-  ing a solemn promise at a General Conference -  for very good reasons, of course - we are unable  to keep our undertakings ?
(67) Would you think it right that a State, when  called upon to pay its contribution, should say that  it was unable to keep its obligation to Unesco?  Surely in this case we all stand under a similar  obligation - every delegate, and every State, and  Unesco as well. The leader of the Brazilian dele-  gation reminded us just now of this moral obliga-  II-13  tion owed to the countries situated on the circum-  ference of the circle of which Unesco's headquar-  ters are the centre.
(68) My country has had the honour of entertaining  Unesco in Beirut. I venture to tell you that that  honour was also extremely onerous for us. Having  undertaken to act as host to Unesco in Beirut, we  kept our promise, but I am sure that you all app-  reciated how difficult it was for my country to do  so at that time. The same considerations apply to  all of us; Unesco gave a promise -last year to a  country which has already made preparations; we  learn from the reports we have received that pre-  parations were begun last year and will continue  over the next years. I ask you, how can we pos-  sibly go back today on the promises we have given  Uruguay? We are under a moral obligation, and  the Lebanese delegation feels very strongly that  Unesco is committed to Uruguay. For that reason,  we support the proposal to hold the Eighth Session  of the General Conference in Montevideo.
(69) The PRESIDENT - (Translation from the  French) I call upon the delegate of Italy.
(70) Mr. Bartolomeo MIGONE (Italy) - (Translation  from the French) Mr. President, ladies and gentle-  men, we are fully aware of the need to practise  economy; that is the reason for holding the next  session of the General Conference in 1954 instead  of in 1953. We have given a formal undertaking.  Moreover, Unesco's Constitution lays down that the  General Conference shall hold its sessions in dif-  ferent countries. "Dura lex sed lex". We are  asked to make a gesture; let us do so with a smile;  let us go to Montevideo; that will be excellent pub-  licity for Unesco throughout the world.
(71) The PRESIDENT - (Translation from the  French) Ladies and gentlemen, you have justheard  fifteen speakers put forward a great variety of ar-  guments on both sides, covering every aspect of the  matter. I think you now have enough information  before you for us to take a vote. I am prepared to  allow the delegate of Yugoslavia to give an explana-  tion of his vote. I shall, of course, also give the  floor to any of my colleagues who wish to do the same.
(72) Mr. RIBNIKAR (Yugoslavia) - (Translation  from the French) May I say one word to explain  my delegation's vote. As I have already told you,  we felt that it was too early to take a decision now.  We did not know what our financial resources  would be, For that reason, the Yugoslav delega-  tion supported the Australian motion for adjourn-  ment. We also told you that we of the Yugoslav  delegation were most anxious to go to Montevideo.  Since it has been decided to vote now, only one  course is open to us: to do as our hearts bid us  and vote in favour of Montevideo.
(73) The PRESIDENT - (Translation from the  - 167 -   II-13  French) If you agree, we will now close the dis-  cussion and take the vote. As the question is com-  plicated and has given rise to much discussion, I  propose to take the vote by roll-call.
(74) We are voting on the resolution submitted by  the Executive Board. If you vote in favour, we  shall adopt the Board's resolution; if you vote  against, it will be rejected.
(75) The vote was taken by roll-call.  Voted in favour: Belgium, Brazil, Colombia,  Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador,  Egypt, El Salvador, France, German Federal Re-  publie, Haiti, Honduras, Italy, Japan, Laos,  Lebanon, Liberia, Luxembourg, Mexico, Nicar-  agua, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Thailand,  Uruguay, Venezuela, Yugoslavia;  Voted against: Australia, Cambodia, Ceylon,  India, Indonesia, Israel, New Zealand, Norway,  Sweden, Switzerland, Union of South Africa, Uni-  ted Kingdom, United States of America;  Abstained: Austria, Canada, Denmark, Greece,  Iran, Iraq, Jordan, Korea, Monaco, Netherlands,  Turkey, Viet-Nam;  Absent: Afghanistan,  Syria, Union of Burma.  Panama, Saudi-Arabia,
(76) The PRESIDENT - (Translation from the  French) The result of the vote is as follows: In  favour of adopting the resolution: 28 votes; ag-  ainst. adopting the resolution: -13-votes; absten-  tions: 12; absent: 5. The resolution proposed by  the Executive Board is adopted.
(77) I call upon the delegate of Uruguay.
(78) Mr. Abelardo SAENZ (Uruguay) - (Transla-  tion from the Spanish) Mr. President, ladies and  gentlemen, I believe I am expressing the real  feelings of my country's delegation when I say that  we shall strive to be worthy of the honour that this  great Conference has just done us. And I think I  speak for the whole continent of Latin America in  thanking you whole-heartedly on its behalf.  REPORT OF THE LEGAL COMMITTEE AND OF THE  ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION ON THE QUESTION OF  CHINA’S RIGHT TO VOTE.
(79) The PRESIDENT - (Translation from the  French) We shall now take the next item on the  agenda, which has to do with China's right to vote  at the present session of the Conference. We have  before us a resolution of the Administrative Com-  mission, document 7C/ADM/38, which has already  been distributed to you.  I call upon the Rapporteur of the Administrative  Commission.
(80) Mr. BRANDT (Switzerland), Rapporteur of  the Administrative Commission - (Translation  from the French) Mr. President, ladies and gent-  PLENARY MEETINGS  lemen, as Rapporteur of the Administrative Com-  mission, I have the following communication to  make to you. The Administrative Commission  held two debates on the question of China's voting  rights. First of all, it decided to refer the prob-  lem to the newly constituted Legal Committee for  consideration. That Committee, in its report  (document 7C/JUR/1), proposed that the Admini-  strative Commission should in turn propose that  the General Conference accord China the right to  vote.
(81) At its meeting this morning, the Administra-  tive Commission voted on the problem and deci-  ded, by 22 votes to 10, with 3 abstentions, to  submit to the General Conference the following  resolution, contained in document 7C/ADM/38  which is before you. The proposed resolution  reads as follows:
(82) "The General Conference  Decides to permit the Chinese delegation to vote  during the present session of the Conference in pur-  suance of Article IV.C. 8(c) of the Constitution.
(83) That is accordingly the decision that the Ad-  ministrative Commission proposes the Conference  should adopt.
(84) The PRESIDENT - (Translation from the  French) Thank you. Does anyone wish to speak  on this draft resolution? I call upon the delegate  of Korea.
(85) Mr. George PAIK (Korea) - Mr. President  and fellow delegates, the Korean delegation wishes  to support the recommendation of the Administra-  tive Commission. The Administrative Commis-  sion gave careful consideration to this question,  and the Legal Committee also examined it from  the legal point of view. This Conference believes  that China shares our ideas in the field of educa-  tion, science and culture. We also know the com-  position of the delegation of China. If we grant  this privilege to them, I am sure they will not use  the right to vote to jeopardize our ideals; so I  think it is altogether fitting that we should extend  this right to the Chinese delegation.
(86) The PRESIDENT - (Translation from the  French) The delegation of Korea supports the pro-  posed resolution. Do other delegations wish to  support it before we take the vote ?
(87) Since no one wishes to speak, we will now  vote. I do not think it necessary to proceed by  roll-call. I would ask the delegations which sup-  port the resolution proposed by the Administrative  Commission to raise their hands.
(88) The draft resolution presented by the Admin-  istrative Commission is adopted by 34 votes to 8,  with 7 abstentions. China is therefore enti'led to  vote at the present session of the General Confer-  ence.  The meeting rose at 5.35 p. m.  - 168 -