IT-10 PLENARY MEETINGS  TENTH PLENARY MEETING  Monday,  President:
17 November 1952, at 3.50 p.m.  Mr. FRANCESCO G. MAMELI (Italy)  CONTENTS  Report of the Nominations Committee on the composi-  tion of the Legal Committee . ne eee A ie 134  Discussion of the Director-General's Report (Continue  ation):  Yugoslavia, Egypt,  Speeches by the delegates of Venezuela,  Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan,  Uruguay, Guatemala and France. . . . . . . . . 134  Reply by the Director-General.  REPORT OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE ON THE  COMPOSITION OF THE LEGAL COMMITTEE.
(1) The PRESIDENT - (Translation from the  French) The meeting is open. I call on Mr. Bender  to present the report of the Nominations Com-  mittee on the composition of the Legal Committee.
(2) Mr. F. BENDER (Netherlands), Chairman of  the Nominations Committee - Mr. President, and  fellow delegates, some time ago we met in this  room to discuss which 15 countries should be re-  presented on the Legal Committee. I took the  liberty, in order to save time, of suggesting a list  of 15 countries. This list was accepted, except  for the fact that Belgium, unfortunately, had to  decline the offer and suggested in its place the  Netherlands. I read out the list to you of the coun-  tries we suggest in alphabetical order: Austria,  Brazil, Canada, Cuba, Denmark, France, Haiti,  Italy, Japan, Netherlands, Pakistan, Turkey,  United Kingdom, United States of America, Viet-  Nam.
(3) The delegate of Japan had already been appoint-  ed Chairman of this Committee.
(4) I took the libertyof suggesting that three Vice-  Chairmen be nominated - Austria, Cuba and Paki-  stan - and that the delegate of France be nominated  Rapporteur. I have the honour, Mr. President, to  move the adoption of this report.
(5) The PRESIDENT - (Translation from the  French) You have heard the report and the pro-  posals of the Chairman of the Nominations Com-  mittee. Are there any observations? If not, the  proposals are adopted.
146  DISCUSSION OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL’S REPORT  (continuation)
(6) The PRESIDENT - (Translation from the  French) We will now resume the general debate on  the Director-General's Report. I call upon the  Venezuelan delegate.
(7) Mr. C. PARRA-PEREZ (Venezuela) - (Trans-  lation from the Spanish) Mr. President, ladies and  gentlemen, the Venezuelan delegation associates  itself with the thanks which other delegations have  expressed to the French authorities, not only for  acting as hosts to the General Conference, but for  the very generous facilities they have extended to  Unesco's headquarters in Paris - a capital which  continues magnificently to deserve, as does no  other, its reputation as the "city of light".
(8) On behalf of my country, I congratulate the  Executive Board and the Director-General on the  work accomplished during the past year, and on  their admirable presentation of the programme.  Previous speakers have brought out the progress  made by Unesco, the degree of maturity it has  attained, and its undisputed capacity to fulfil the  tasks entrusted to it by the Member States. The  Director-General, on whose shoulders rests the  main and the heaviest burden, is entitled to the  deep gratitude of the governments. This man of  action, this scholar in action, might well be called  the "World Minister of Culture"; in him we all  see the prototype of the international civil servant,  representing the perfect combination of idealism  and constructive energy that is a typical product of  the Ibero-American countries.
(9) Ishallnotrepeat the eulogies of the programme  - 134 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  which you have already heard from others. We are  all agreed that, except on certain points of detail,  the standards and methods adopted by Unesco are  well suited to its nature and present capacities.  It is, however, necessary to emphasize that, if  such a programme is to be carried out and, above  all, logically developed in the future, the Member  States must revise their financial policy vis-à-vis  the Organization. I am not authorized by my Gov-  ernment - far from it - to advise any increase in  the budget, which my delegation will vote in accord-  ance with its instructions. However, as one who  has had the honour of associating his efforts with  those of his distinguished colleagues of the Exe-  cutive Board and of the Director-General in the  preparation of the programme, I have no hesita-  tion in saying that the main question to be solved  is one, not of methods, but of resources. Unes-  co's success depends, exclusively, on the amount  of money at its disposal.
(10) The States today devote to the various inter-  national organizations an annual sum of approxi-  mately $90, 000, 000, that is to say some twelve  times what they spent for the same or similar  purposes before the last war. Unesco's present  budget alone may be reckonedas roughly equivalent  to that of the old League of Nations, which included  that of the International Labour Office. But the  face of the world has changed so much and the  problems of our time are so manifold and so vast  that it would be trivial to talk in terms of com-  parative values. The units in which Ministries of  Finance collect and expend money are no longer  reckoned in thousands but in thousand millions.  That applies not only to administration but above  all, unfortunately, to armaments. The whole of  Unesco's budget would barely suffice for one  minute's bombardment.
(11) The circumstances of our time require that  the States be not asked to increase their contribu-  tions to the international institutions whose business  it is to establish and maintain peace. For its  part, the Government of Venezuela, which is de-  voting all its resources to a vast plan of national  development that is largely designed to promote  education and training, does not see how it could  at present assume further financial burdens.
(12) But I wonder - and I am speaking now in my  own name and not on official instructions - whether,  given the fact that there is, for the moment, no  hope of an increase in States! contributions to the  international organizations, it would not be well to  study a possible redistribution of the total sum  available, so as to apply it more rationally to the  ends we jointly have in view. The question is  indeed a difficult one, and it would be presumptuous  on my part to do more than put it to you here. It  cannot be denied that, taking these institutions as  a whole, some betray signs of hypertrophy and  others of a certain hardening of the arteries. It  is at the moment impossible to say whether the  present international machinery is turning out the  II-10  policy which it should, or could. Since, however,  the Specialized Agencies are the essential instru-  ments of international action, I would say that, in  the present state of international relations, they  should not continue to suffer from the lack of the  material resources to which I have referred,  though they do not always put the resources they  have to the best use. The whole system stands in  need of some improvement.
(13) There are, moreover, categories of values;  and no one disputes that those represented by  Unesco have priority. One cannot place, on the  same level, restrictions on whaling and the dis-  semination of moral principles, the defence of  human rights, or the harnessing of scientific and  technological discoveries for the benefit of man-  kind. Concurrently with a rational distribution of  available resources there should perhaps be a  careful examination of what are really the proper  functions andactivities of each Specialized Agency,  havingregardto its nature and effectiveness. There  is no tree that is not the better for pruning from  time to time.
(14) Certain of our colleagues have spoken of de-  centralization; and the Director-General will  doubtless take occasion once more to explain the  intricacy of that problem, and how he envisages it.  In some respects it is bound up with the whole idea  underlying Unesco's mission, which would seem to  be to achieve not uniformity of culture - that would  be undesirable and impracticable - buta confeder-  ation of cultures,
(15) When Venezuela considers its responsibilities  towards the world international institutions, it  must, like all the other Members of the Organiza-  tion of American States, pay due regard to the  very special responsibilities assumed during the  last sixty years by the countries of the Western  Hemisphere under agreements and conventions  which have the force of law, and the application  and expansion of which is both the desire and a  major interest of those countries. My Government,  however, believes that its obligations under the  inter-American pacts are in full harmony with  those we have assumed within the framework of  the world community, and that the two sets of obli-  gations are, in fact, complementary. For the  Pan-American outlook stems and derives sus-  tenance from a broad notion of universality. The  founders of Pan-Americanism, the men who, a  hundred and twenty-five years ago, discussed the  programme of the Panama Congress, set up no  sort of dividing-line between the interests of our  Continent and those of Europe and Asia; and in  their attempt to organize co-operation between the  States of the New World, they sought to establish  what Bolivar called "the balance of the world".
(16) For that reason, Venezuela has, during the  past year, emphasized its desire to co-operate  actively in the activities of Unesco, and its inten-  tion of drawing upon its assistance and experience  in the educational and cultural programme which  - 135 -   II-10  we are carryingout. Of all Unesco's activities, that  which at present interests us most is fundamental  education, which in the majority of the American  countries inevitably means the battle against illit-  eracy. My Government is now studying a draft  contract for technical assistance to be provided by  Unesco for an experimental fundamental education  centre of great importance, recently created.  Moreover, as the Director-General mentioned, a  team of three distinguished professors is now in-  augurating, at Caracas, one of the university  courses authorized by the previous General Con-  ference. My Government is particularly grateful  to Mr. Torres Bodet and to the services of the  Secretariat concerned for their interest and for  the efficiency with which these matters are being  handled.
(17) When we consider the work accomplished by  Unesco, we experience a feeling of comfort, and a  breath of optimism passes through the tense and  anxious atmosphere of the present hour. Amid the  turbulence of the passions exciting the nations,  amid the strife of national interests and the threat  of new clashes between empires in obedience to  laws that have predominated for thousands of years,  our only ground for hope is this "battle for peace"  which Unesco has engaged, in order to establish  those intellectual and moral values which constitute  the real nobility of man, to promote education and  artistic and scientific creation, and so, perhaps,  one day to bring about equality and freedom for all  races.
(18) The PRESIDENT - (Translation from the  French) I thank Mr. Parra-Perez, the Venezuelan  delegate, and call on the Yugoslav delegate.
(19) Mr. RIBNIKAR (Yugoslavia) - (Translation  from the French) Mr. President, however import-  ant the decisions to be taken bythe Seventh Session  of the General Conference may prove to be, I do  not agree with those who appear to think that they  will mark a turning-point in the development of  Unesco, or that their effect will be to draw a hard-  and-fast line between two separate stages of that  development. Neither the reorganization which is  now in progress - the biennial system which comes  into operation this year - nor even the possible  changes in the structure of certain of Unesco's  organs, need necessarily lead to any alteration  in the nature of its work, or in any way affect its  basic aims, which are laid down in the Constitu-  tion. For what characterizes an Organization such  as ours - what constitutes its essential feature -  is its work, not details of form, its aims, not the  organizational structure. Nevertheless, the mod-  ifications which are to be carried out by this Con-  ference should cause us to look back over the  experience of the past years, from which we can  perhaps draw a lesson that may afford us a glimpse  of Unesco's future development.
(20) From its inception down to the present day,  PLENARY MEETINGS  Unesco's work, as expressed in its annual pro-  grammes, has passed, in logical progression,  through successive phases, in the course of which  it has gradually cast off some of its original aspi-  rations towards universality in the abstract -  aspirations which were often based on somewhat  misty philosophical theories - and drawn closer to  the living, concrete realities, which are the con-  solidation of peace and social progress.
(21) Havinglaid down its basic programme in 1950;  and paying due regard tothe general recommenda-  tions of the Economic and Social Council concern-  ing the priority activities of the Specialized Agen-  cies, Unesco can now concentrate on certain  clearly-defined problems; in other words, it can  embark resolutely upon a realistic cultural policy.  It can now be said that Unesco has succeeded in  blazing a path that will lead it, by way of a number  of co-ordinated activities, towards aims which are  completely in harmony with the general aims of the  United Nations. That is the conclusion to be drawn  from a study of the proposed programme for 1953  and 1954. And the same conclusion necessarily  emerges from the Director-General's Report,  which presents, in clearly summarized form, a  general survey of Unesco's activity. We congra-  tulate the Director-General on the original manner  in which that Report is presented, on its coherence  and its persuasiveness.
(22) When we study these two bulky documents,  upon which our discussions are based, and compare  them with previous documents, we receive an  impression of dynamic energy. Despite its in-  creasing concentration on an ever-diminishing  number of projects, the very nature of our pro-  gramme and the need to ensure its development  have necessitated a constant expansion of activity.  That has naturallyled to an increase inthe budget -  a very sensitive point, unfortunately, with all  Member States.
(23) The Yugoslav delegation is, however, con-  vinced that this natural expansion of the work of  our Organization is essential to its survival, and  cannot be avoided without grave danger. Person-  ally, I am not very fond of the word "stabilization",  which constantly recurs in our discussions. In  matters of science and culture, of social progress  and the development of cultural relations between  nations, stabilization can never mean a pause - it  is inevitably synonymous with retreat. In war, for  tactical reasons, one may sometimes retreat in  order to go over more easily to the attack; but on  the peace front there should never be a retreat, for  on that front there can be no victory without con-  tinuous progress. For that reason the Yugoslav  delegation is prepared to approve the general  lines of the proposed programme for 1953-1954,  but will not acquiesce in any real reduction of  Unesco!s activity, imposed in the guise of stabili-  zation. We regard cultural co-operation as some-  thing so precious that its value cannot be expressed  in dollars. -We consider that the work done by  - 136 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  Unesco in the consolidation of cultural relation-  ships is already bearing fruit, that it represents  a great contribution to the cause of peace.
(24) In the six years since Unesco was established,  mutual understanding between the different Mem-  ber States has grown considerably. Despite any  divergences of view that may exist on various  points - political, economic, and so forth - it is  possible nowadays to obtain the agreement of al-  most all Member States, if not on every question  of science, education or culture that arises in the  course of Unesco's manifold activities, at least on  the fundamental desire to extend and deepen cult-  ural co-operation inthe interests of peace, whether  byinculcating respect for human rights and for the  freedom of scientific, literary and artistic cre-  ation, or by aiding the less-favoured nations.  Those States which were not sincerely devoted to  the idea of co-operation, preferring a policy of  cultural isolation, and those whose anti-democratic  governments were opposed to the principles of the  Universal Declaration of Human Rights, have left  Unesco.
(25) We must strive to preserve and strengthen  the agreement that exists between the Member  States of Unesco in all matters affecting the safe-  guarding of peace, freedom and progress. We  must obtain from all Member States a moral  guarantee that they will respect the underlying  principles of the United Nations and those of the  Unesco Constitution. Governments which are  known to be unable to give such a guarantee should  not be admitted to Unesco, and I therefore consider  that the General Conference should observe great  caution and give careful thought to each individual  case, when the admission of new Members is  under discussion. If I refer here, more particu-  larly, to the question of Spain - although it is not  on today's agenda - it is because I am convinced  that it is to some extent related to other events  which have recently taken place in Unesco or in its  immediate vicinity. I do not think we need be  greatly disturbed by these events, but they do call  for increased vigilance on our part.
(26) The General Conference is about to vote the  resolutions determining Unesco's activity for the  next two years. Every branch of that activity will  be specified and described in work plans. Now the  nature of Unesco's work is such that even if all, or  a majority, of the delegations were to agree on all  points, the resultant activities might take a direc-  tion other than that desired and envisaged by that  majority, and be carried out in another manner.  To decide the nature and scope of a task is not  everything. The spirit in which instructions are  carried out, and the choice of those who are to  carry them out are points of at least equal import-  ance,
(27) The implementation of Unesco's programme  does not rest solely with the Secretariat - in which  we can feel entire confidence. Points of our pro-  gramme are more and more frequently delegated  II-10  to outside organizations and individuals - such as,  for instance, the experts who are sent to different  countries as advisers, to make a survey, to pre-  pare a publication, or for some other purpose. In  the long run, it is these organizations and indivi-  duals who determine, to a great extent, the man-  ner and spirit in which Unesco's programme is  implemented. And in this respect, what do we  find taking place? We find a certain tendency to  group around Unesco an increasing number of  organizations of a more or less openly religious  character, and to reject certain organizations of  a non-denominational character - among which,  indeed, there are some that I am by no means  prepared to defend. The same, or almost the  same, tendency is to be noted among individuals.  It is easy to understand why certain religious  organizations are interested in Unesco's activities,  and why they would like to influence them. But it  cannot be denied that this desire sometimes takes  the form of a kind of moral pressure.
(28) I do not propose to enter into details or to  start arguments about matters which do not, in my  opinion, constitute a real danger to the Organiza-  tion. I will give only one example, which seems to  me to be characteristic - the case of the Inter-  national Commission for a Scientific and Cultural  History of Mankind. The announcement of the plan  for that monumental work, the idea of which came  from Unesco, gave rise to apprehensions in Cath-  olic circles - apprehensions which were expressed  in a certain, not uninfluential, section of the Press  with such persistence that the President of the  Commission felt obliged, with good reason no  doubt, to reassure the Vatican. In one of his state-  ments on this subject, quoted in the document  presented to the General Conference, there is even  a reference to the shade of the great Bossuet,  whose presence will always be felt during their  discussions by the historians to whom Unesco has  assigned the preparation of this work. The figure  is suggestive, but it is liable to arouse apprehen-  sions on the opposite side - among people whose  opinions on all these matters do not coincide with  those held in Catholic circles.
(29) My personal view is that neither the shade of  the Eagle of Meaux, nor any other shade should be  permitted to darken the radiant path along which  Unesco, inspired by the vital needs of all nations,  is advancing towards its great aims of peace, free-  dom, and human progress. Scientific thought - the  form of thought by which Unesco should be guided -  is eliminating more and more all supernatural  religious factors from the writing of history. That  form of thought is more and more clearlyrevealed  as the intrument best fitted to assist man in his  efforts to understand, control and enlist in his own  service all the laws of nature and society. I am  firmly convinced that the march of progress goes  "pari passu'' with an ever broadening, ever more  perfect human freedom, and that culture draws its  strength, its meaning and its value from the fact  .  - 137 -   II-10  that it fosters the individual's feeling of independ-  ence. Progress depends upon man, upon man's  conscience and his creative will-power. We must  fight for progress, fight so that the blind forces  which govern history may be brought under the  control-of man, so that scientific truth may sweep  away superstition, injustice, privilege, and vio-  lence, and make way for the reign of Reason.  Through education, science and culture, Unesco  will drive fatalism from its throne andinstal free-  dom in its place. If Unesco is to have an aim, an  ultimate aim to which all its.activities must be  subordinated, that, it seems to me, is the only  possible one.
(30) I repeat that I do not think the events to which  I have referred are likely to influence Unesco's  future development to any very serious extent, or  that any excessive importance should be attributed  to them. But I feel it is necessary to mention  them - and also to remember that while all Unes-  co's General Conferences necessarily open with a  "Te Deum', its proceedings on the other hand,  leave the public and the press more or less indif-  ferent to its problems. That point is of particular  importance today, when the Seventh Session of the  General Conference is opening, at a time when the  United Nations, as a whole, is meeting with in-  creasing difficulties in its attempts to solve prob-  lems of the utmost significance to the future of the  human race.
(31) The PRESIDENT -  French) I thank the Yugoslav delegate,  upon the Egyptian delegate.  (Translation from the  and I call
(32) Mr. Ismail MAHMOUD EL KABBANI (Egypt)  - Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, coming to  a Unesco Conference for the first time, I feel  particular pleasure in representing my country at  this session, not only because of the importance  of the questions under consideration, as viewed in  themselves, but also because this session is being  held at a time when Egypt has just started a new  chapter in its history, a chapter in which co-oper-  ation with Unesco and other Specialized Agencies  of the United Nations will assume special signifi-  cance.
(33) The movement of liberation which started on
23 July is not merely a revolt against despotic rule  and political corruption; it is, above all, a move-  ment of social, economic and cultural progress,  based upon the recognition of the rights of the  common man, the abolition of all forms of privi-  lege, and the mobilization of all the energies of the  country for real improvement in the standard of  life of the masses. The very first piece of legis-  lation to be considered, and eventually passed, by  the present Government was one bearing upon  agricultural reform and the redistribution of land.  This law sets a limit of 200 acres to land owner-  ship, all in excess of that limit to be distributed  among the non-landowning peasants; reasonable  ‘ives have been,  PLENARY MEETINGS  compensation - spread over 30 years - is to be  paid to the original owners by the State. The law  also provides machinery for fixing a minimum  wage for agricultural labourers in each region,  and entitles them to form unions for collective  bargaining. The land distributed will be cultivated  on a co-operative basis; the co-operative socie-  ties will not only arrange financial facilities and  secure machinery and expert agricultural advice  and help for the new owenrs, but they are also  required to organize various social services for  these new owners.
(34) Itis evident that this law will have far-reach-  ing effects, social andpoliticalas well as economic,  When it comes into full operation - and no time is  being lost in implementing it - there will no longer  be in Egypt feudal lords who own the land in whole  villages and who dominate (I almost said enslave)  the people living in them.
(35) Following that law, a second one set up a  National Council for Economic Development, an  independent body charged with the study, initiation  and carrying out of schemes for the increase of  agricultural and industrial production necessary to  maintain the rapidly growing population of Egypt  and to raise the general standard of living.
(36) Athirdpiece oflegislation already elaborated,  and at this moment in its final stages, is the revi-  sion of the law governing labour contracts, a law  intended to safeguard the rights of industrial and  other city workers.
(37) In the field of education our foremost object-  first, the preparation of a care-  fully considered long-range plan for speeding up  the full realization of compulsory education; sec-  ondly, better adaptation of curricula to the aims of  the new movement and to the needs of the environ-  ment, especially in the rural areas which contain  the greater part of Egypt's population; and, thirdly,  the reorganization of technical and vocational edu-  cation so as to increase its efficiency and to bring  it into closer relationship with the actual needs of  economic life.
(38) I have taken time to mention these various  developments because they show what intense  interest Unesco's programme of activities for the  coming two years, as proposed by the Director-  General, will arouse in our country at this moment  of its history, and because they will indicate those  parts of the programme to which we attach the  greatest importance. The programme as a whole  is a great document, representing a concrete and  effective step towards the knitting of the various  peoples of the world into one community. Through  the projects it plans to execute and the various  forms of assistance it proposes to extend to the  less developed areas, it shows how the ideal of  world co-operation can replace the old formula of  subordination and control imposed by one set of  nations over the others; it thus paves the way to  international understanding and world peace.
(39) We fully appreciate the increasing attention  - 138 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  that Unesco has given to the problems of the Arab  world of late years, and we feel that the develop-  ments now taking place in that area present a  challenge for further and greater assistance, to  which Unesco and the Technical Assistance Board  cannot fail to respond. The proposed programme  contains many projects and activities that afford  opportunities for such assistance. One may cite  projects concerning fundamental and compulsory  education, projects of technical assistance for the  development of economic production and technical  education, various forms of assistance to scien-  tific research into problems relating to the in-  crease of production and the rehabilitation of arid  zones, projects for the encouragement of research  into social problems and the establishment of a  social research institute. These are only promi-  nent examples of items of the programme which  are of vital importance to regions such as our own.  In this connexion, I should like to say that Egypt,  together with the Arab States, strongly supports  the proposal to hold a regional conference on com-  pulsory education in the Middle East, and promises  to offer all the help it can to ensure its success.
(40) Egypt has a long-standing tradition of inter-  national co-operation inthe cultural and educational  fields. Besides the various forms of assistance  that it has for many years provided to its sister  Arab countries, and the system of cultural ex-  changes that it has established with them, it has  developed extensive cultural relations with many  countries of the West and with a large number of  international bodies. Among other things, Egypt  has entered into bilateral cultural agreements with  Belgium, the United States of America, Brazil and  Spain, and is considering similar agreements with  Greece and Mexico. It receives large numbers of  professors, research workers and students every  year from these and other countries, and has at  present more than a thousand of its scholars pur-  suing higher studies or undertaking research in  European and American universities and other  institutions of higher learning. It has established  an Egyptian Chair at the Institute of Mediterranean  Civilizations at Nice, a Chair of Arabic studies at  the University of Athens, an Institute of Islamic  Studies at Madrid, and an Egyptian Institute at-  tached to its Education Office in London.
(41) With regard to international organizations,  Egypt was one of the first adherents of the Inter-  national Bureau of Education, the International  Labour Office, the International Institute of Intel-  lectual Co-operation, and finally, of Unesco, not  to mention many specialized scientific associations:  _and we are proud to say that we have never wa-  vered in our support for, and fruitful collaboration  with, these bodies.
(42) The latest example of such collaboration is  the agreement concluded between Unesco and the  Egyptian Government for the establishment at  Sirs-el-Layan, near Cairo, of a fundamental edu-  cation centre for the Arab world. I am glad to be  II-10  able to announce that the Egyptian Government has  fulfilled its obligations under that agreement, and  that the preparations for the opening of the centre  are nearing their completion, so that it will be  possible to open it early in January. We are look-  ing forward to the presence, on that occasion, of  the distinguished Director-General of this Organ-  ization, to whose vision, sympathetic understand-  ing and great energy the centre in a large measure  owes its existence. I can assure him of a warm  welcome in Egypt.
(43) The centre will be organized in three main  divisions, concerned respectively with training,  production of material, and research. The divi-  sion of research is a characteristic of theSirs-el-  Layan centre; I understand that it was not provided  for at Patzcuaro. I wish to call attention to the  special importance of that division for the area  served by the new centre. Indeed, it is not only in  the field of fundamental education that we need  research, The problems of social reconstruction  in general, as well as those of economic develop-  ment, are of such magnitude that they are not likely  to find satisfactory and stable solutions without the  aid of science and the systematic utilization of  scientific techniques. Egypt already has organs  for such work in its universities and its special  research institutes, and assistance given to these  latter bodies will be of great value. In connexion  with projects for research concerning arid zones,  special mention may be made of the Desert Insti-  tutes.
(44) On the subject of scientific research, it may  be opportune to refer to a measure that would  greatly facilitate the dissemination of expert in-  formation among the 70, 000, 000 Arabic-speaking  people of the world, namely the publication of  Arabic translations of important reports and papers  of Unesco. Reference may also be made to the  work done by the Arabic Press Bureau of the  Secretariat, which keeps public opinion in the  Arabic countries well informed about Unesco's  activities. This is particularly important at a  time when the establishment of the Sirs-el-Layan  centre and the preparations for the regional con-  ference on compulsory education will greatly in-  crease interest in Unesco in the Arab world.
(45) Another item of the programme to which I  must call attention is that relating to the education  of the million homeless Arab refugees. According  to the Declaration of Human Rights, the children of  those refugees have the right to be educated, but  thousands of them have no means of enjoying that  right and many others receive education under  conditions that make it almost fruitless. The  United Nations should, in conscience, feel special  responsibility for the sore plight to which these  people have been brought. Yet totally inadequate  provision is made by Unesco and the United Nations  Relief and Works Agency for their education - how  inadequate can be seen from the fact that the sum  allotted for this purpose by the two Agencies  - 139 -   II-10  together is less than that spent by Egypt alone last  year on the education of the refugees of the Gaza  sector. We realize that this is not a problem to be  solved by Unesco alone, but we urge the Director-  General to press UNRWA for the funds necessary  to extend education to all those refugee children  who do not at present receive it.
(46) In conclusion, I wish to express our faith in,  and our support for, the proposed activities relat-  ing to Education for Living in a World Community.  Just three years ago Iwas privileged to be a mem-  ber of a Unesco committee which worked on some as-  pects of this problem. I had the opportunity then of  pointing out that the realization of the idea of a  world community depended, above anything else,  upon full, sincere and practical recognition by all  nations, especially the Great Powers, of the prin-  ciple of the equality of all human beings, set forth  in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. So  long as large groups are still victims of political  slavery, racial prejudice or economic exploitation,  it is vain to expect such people to develop the feel-  ing of belonging to a world community. In other  words, international understanding musthave inter-  national justice as its basis, and the noblest mis-  sion that Unesco can fulfil is to help to teach the  children and youth of the world equal respect for all  human beings, without regard to distinctions of  race, colour, language, religion, economic status,  or political creed.
(47) The PRESIDENT -  French) I thank the Egyptian delegate,  upon the delegate of Jordan.  (Translation from the  and I call
(48) Mr. Khalil SALEM - (Hashemite Kingdom of  Jordan) Mr. President, fellow delegates, it is  really a great honour for me to address this Con-  ference, not only because I speak for a young coun-  try, but also because I am very new to Unesco Con-  ferences and, perhaps, because I am the youngest  among the Heads of delegations. May I, therefore,  very humbly and respectfully associate myself with  what more eloquent and experienced speakers have  already said in paying tribute to our distinguished  and eminent Director-General, Mr. Torres Bodet,  for the very clear and astounding picture of Unesco  activities he has presented to us. A word of sin-  cere thanks and genuine appreciation should be ex-  tended to the Secretariat for their enthusiastic de-  votion and their continuous efforts towards the  promotion of a better educational, scientific and  cultural life in all countries of the world.
(49) Jordan, like many other countries represented  here, sees inthe Report, as well as in the proposed  programme, an open gate leading into a better world,  Science has given man the opportunity of achieving  an age of plenty and abundance. It is for mankind  to make of science a blessing or a curse, to use it  for good or for evil, and to progress with civiliza-  tion or to destroy it. Only through sound education  and enlightened culture can we hope to enrich human  PLENARY MEETINGS  life and enjoy the fruits of science. In very broad  lines, Unesco should see that edueation is free to  all individuals so that they may develop harmoni-  ous personalities and realize their potentialities. It  is Unesco's task to see that culture fosters a strong  love for freedom, justice and peace in the heart of  every human being. It should see that all nations  share in science, this new social contract, reapits  harvest and share equally its fruits.
(50) This, ladies and gentlemen, brings me to  Jordan's first comment on the proposed programme,  We associate ourselves with the many speakers  who advocated very eloquently the principle of con-  centration. This concentration need not mean that  we cut from the programme its head or heart or  hand, but rather that we select those activities whose  values accrue to all nations or to the majority of  them. The greatest benefit to the greatest number  is the sound principle that can guide the work of  Unesco and help in the allocation of priorities.
(51) In this restless political insecurity in which  the world now finds itself, the need for education  in world citizenship is clearer than the sun in its  zenith. It is an infallible premise that the lack of  such education in all countries has led to abewild-  ered world community beset by religious, racial,  social, political and many other tensions. This  effort for education for living in a world community  is indispensable, though its aims might seem diffi-  cult to achieve. Since half the world is illiterate,  underfed, ill-housed and ill-clothed, the work in  the projects of fundamental education should be wel-  comed. This education will surely free millions  from the bondages of ignorance, disease and poverty.  Fundamental education, which is only a temporary  measure, has to spread like fire on earth until  programmes of compulsoryfree education are car-  ried out in all countries.
(52) Needless to say, dissemination and populariza-  tion of science are a common, urgent necessity for  living today. Unesco need not encourage research  for its pure and theoretical values; if public opinion  is made to appreciate scientific achievements, pri-  vate and State endowments for research will inevi-  tably follow. Unesco should not concern itself with  research of atoo highly specialized nature. Rather,  it should concern itself withthe broader aim of the  proper teaching and popularization of available sci-  ence in all countries.
(53) Another feature of this common core for  Unesco activities is free expression and free ex-  change of ideas and persons. The integration of the  best achievements of one culture with another would  not only enrich individual cultures but would also  result in a more: profound international understand-  ing and human solidarity.
(54) Technical Assistance comes under the same  category. May I respectfully make a suggestion. In  place of the terms "under-developed" and ‘'highly-  developed", cannot we use some other more appeal-  ing and appeasing terms? Shall we agree to use  " and "older" instead? If we calculated,   PLENARY MEETINGS  as we should, the age of a State from the time it  gained real freedom and independence, most of the  under-developed countries are young because they  have recently become independent. With these  terms we connote the sympathy, affection and disin-  terested readiness to help on the part of the older to-  wards the younger; we should better express the  willingness of the young to profit from the rich ex-  perience and expert knowledge of the old. We are  brothers in one family, whose prosperity and well-  being depends largely on the extent to which each in-  dividual is making his contribution. Miss Horsbrugh  said: "Our common life will be the richer, the more  numerous are the States attaining to equal partner-  ship in the intellectual and spiritual adventure";  this must apply also in the technical and scientific  fields. We want to walk in the caravan of civiliza-  tion and we badly need technical assistance to avoid  the trials and errors of the older States and en-  hance economic development and social progress.
(55) Concentration should mean a deeper penetra-  tion into problems and a strenuous effort to solve  them. Unesco's aims and ideals will never reach  the masses through publications and broadcasts,  but they will be well known and appreciated if  Unesco leaves its influence on the lives of the peo-  ple through effective action.
(56) Jordan wishes to see the campaign for exten-  ding free and compuslory schooling achieve success,  not through recommendations and reports but  through real and substantial help. We welcome the  conference on compulsory education to be held in  the Middle East. We very much look forward to  sending our trainees to Sirs-el-Layan and will give  them, when they finish their training, every pos-  sible help in putting their knowledge and experience  to full use. We hope to have in Jordan an associ-  ated project to start the work and prepare the field  for these trainees.
(57) We should like Unesco to help in the editing of  an English-French-Arabic dictionary, which will  further scientific culture and promote science tea-  ching in all Arab States. We have not felt the exis-  tence of the Science Co-operation Office for the  Middle East, but we hope to have, in the future,  closer relations and more effective co-operation  with this centre. We shall be happy to see the In-  stitute for Statistics established in Beirut.
(58) So far as the training of Jordanian persons is  concerned, because the programme of Unesco has  been extended to cover two years, we hope to get  scholarships and fellowships of longer periods. We  cannot, without the draining of our administrative  and technical system, send candidates who would  master the techniques they want to study in only six  or nine months. Poor countries need more equip-  ment. Sometimes we recognize the need, but we  have not the financial allocations to satisfy it. The  Technical Assistance Programme should, there-  fore, not have rigid and preconceived regulations.  It should rather be flexible and take into account the  particular situation in each country.  II-10
(59) May I refer to what my colleagues from Iraq  and Egypt have said with respect to the need for  more papers and reports in Arabic? Before Unesco  undertakes a task of mass production of publica-  tions, it should be sure that these publications  reach the masses and are read by the many. As I  said before, the best and farthest-reaching propa-  ganda for Unesco's aims is real and effective act-  ion. Another means is to address the -people in  their own language.
(60) I cannot help noticing in the Report that the  Executive Board in one of its resolutions, expres-  sed the hope that the Director and Advisory Com-  mission of the United Nations Relief and Works  Agency "would sympathetically reconsider the pos-  sibilities of increasing the financial allocation for  the general education of refugee children (from  Palestine) so that such education might be brought  within the reach of as large a number as possible!"  Is not Unesco ignoring its first aim when it limits  its request to "as large a number as possible ? Is  it not contradictory with its recommendations con-  cerning compulsory education and the extension of  this education? Is it not also overlooking Article
26 of the Declaration of Human Rights when it puts  forward a recommendation which implies that some  refugee children shall have no education?
(61) I could have omitted this remark if I did not  read in the proposed programme the following sen-  tence: ''It is intended to continue the primary  schools programme (for Palestinian refugee child-  ren) on the same scale in 1953 and 1954". What  scale? Jordan has given refuge to nearly half a  million Palestinian Arabs who were chased from  their homes, farms, schools and every other thing  that they hold dear. This figure represents more  than 50 per cent of the original inhabitants of Jor-  dan on both banks. In Jordan, 80,000 refugee child-  ren, or more, are within compulsory school age.  About 25 per cent benefit at present from education  in UNRWA-Unesco schools. Government schools  in Jordan provide education for a further 25 per  cent, but the remaining 40,000 refugee childrenare  not admitted to schools. Besides, children in  UNRWA-Unesco schools are taught in difficult con-  ditions, in worn-out tents, with poor teaching equip-  ment and by untrained teachers. Unesco has accep-  ted, in association with UNRWA, the responsibility  of extending education to these children. It should  therefore discharge this responsibility in a perfect  way. The schools with which Unesco has associa-  ted its name must be ideal schools, pioneering in  sound teaching methods. Bearing in mind that  Unesco has struggled for a better development and  progress inthese schools, and knowing that the fin-  ancial claims of this work could be met by the re-  cent increase inthe relief allocation and integration  funds at the disposal of UNRWA, cannot we, in this  General Conference, express a wish to see that all  refugee children in this part of the world are ad-  mitted to schools ?
(62) Wehave more refugees than ‘any other country  - 141 -   II-10  of the same national income could ever house, The  Jordanian Ministry of Education has contributed to  the education of these children more than her lim-  ited funds allow. Not only as a charitable work,  which is justified by the most natural of human  sentiments as well as by the duty of constructing  more stable defences of peace in the minds of men,  but also in compliance with Article 26 of the Dec-  laration of Human Rights should this education be  perfected. On behalf of the thousands of children  who are refused admittance to schools, I appeal to  this General Conference to take a decision that all  refugee children should have satisfactory educa-  tional opportunities. If this wish is heard, if this  urgent need is recognized, I am sure the Arab  world will have a deeper faith and a stronger con-  fidence in the aims and ideals of Unesco.
(63) The PRESIDENT - (Translation from the  French) I thank the delegate of Jordan and call up-  on the Uruguayan delegate.
(64) Mr. Abelardo SAENZ (Uruguay) - (Transla-  tion from the Spanish) Mr. President, ladies and  gentlemen, my first act, in speaking to you here  as Head of the Uruguayan delegation, is to extend a  cordial greeting tothe representatives of the vari-  ous nations met together in this distinguished  assembly.
(65) The well-considered report of the Director-  General excellently describes, not only the work  accomplished by Unesco, but the obstacles that may  endanger it in the future, and the courage and faith  we must display in overcoming them if we are to  progress with our great task of establishing toler-  ance, understanding and peace among the nations,  implantingthese ideals inthe minds of men through  education, science and culture. I am expressing  the feelings of all members of my delegation when  I congratulate the Director-General and his col-  leagues on the real advances made, during the past  year, in the fight for this noble aim.
(66) This General Conference of Unesco - the  seventh in its short yet promising career - impels  us all to look both backward and forward, to com-  pare what has been done with what remains to be  done, to balance achievements against objectives.  The balance sheet, I think, gives clear cause for  satisfaction, both on the national plane - for which  my delegation primarily speaks - and on the inter-  national plane. In Uruguay, Unesco's activities have  already yielded big spiritual dividends, even when  what has been accomplished is regarded merely as  a brief prelude to the major task ahead. Our Na-  tional Commission still has no resources of its own,  and it lacks the permanent staff required for the  speedy performance of its tasks; even so, however,  it is conscientiously fulfilling its basic duty of dis-  seminating the principles of Unesco, and of sowing  the good seed entrusted to it. We need only recall,  in that connexion, its collaboration in the primary  education seminar which was held in Montevideo in  PLENARY MEETINGS
1950, under the aegis of Unesco and the Organiza-  tion of American States, and which had very en-  couraging results. Another major feature in our  national life which we owe to Unesco's work is the  Science Co-operation Office for Latin America,  which had its origin in a recommendation of the  Congress of Science Experts, and is now under the  talented leadership of Mr. Establier; we were  honoured by the choice of Montevideo for its head-  quarters in 1949. I can see on my Government's  behalf that the Office has accomplished its task in  an exemplary manner, having carried out the whole  of the programme laid down by the Congress of  Experts. Proofs of its effectiveness are its pub-  lications to date, which give a detailed and accu-  rate picture of scientific developments in Latin  America over the last few years, both in their  human and in their institutional aspects, and with  regard to research, books, monographs and arti-  cles of a technical nature. Yet other proof is to be  found in the repeated references to the Office inthe  Director-General's reports since 1949, which de-  servedly mention the decisive part played by the  Office in following the execution of important pro-  jects for the benefit of a number of Latin American  countries, and the diligence evinced by it in meet-  ing requests for scientific co-operation coming, in  some cases, from as far away as West Africa.  Another point worthy of remark is the issue, in  July 1952, of the latest Bulletin of the Office, which  contains a series of exhaustive surveys of the vari-  ous facets of scientific research in Latin America.
(67) To sum up what has been done, it is no exag-  geration to say that the Science Co-operation Office  in Montevideo is giving a powerful and necessary  stimulus to the spirit of scientific research, that  its work and activities are having undisputably  beneficial repercussions throughout Latin America  and that for our own country it is an indispensable  intellectual tonic.
(68) When we turn from the national to the inter-  national plane, a review of Unesco's work still  affords grounds for optimism. Here however, a  major financial problem arises. It is obvious that  so long as Unesco has only advanced half way to-  wards the completion of many of its projects, the  satisfactory prosecution of the work calls for new  resourcesy As an eminent French statesman put it:  "Give me adequate finance and! will give you good  government’. In this instance a wise and cautious  prudence must dictate the degree and extent of the  budgetary increases. Uruguay's share in Unesco's  total expenditure is so small that it is only proper  for us to exercise restraint in our appraisal of in-  creases which will fall more heavily on others. It  is right therefore, that detailed consideration should  be given tohow far the new expenditure is warrant-  able and advantageous, without however forgetting  the fundamental principle that to check the develop-  ment of an institution like Unésco is equivalent to  killing, that Unesco is something that the world has  never known before and that in it an impoverished  - 142 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  humanity sees the casket enshrining its greatest  hope.
(69) I still seem to hear the splendid words pro-  nounced by our distinguished president, Dr. Sarve-  palli Radhakrishnan, whose absence I much regret,  when accepting the office for which he was so  rightly chosen. His words struck home to the very  depths of our hearts for they revealed to us a great  intellect tempered by contemplation of man and the  universe, which, while fully aware that, in life as  in physical nature, light and shade are intermingl-  ed, yet fervently believes in the final victory of  the light. That we too believe.
(70) I therefore repeat, in my Government's name,  my warm greeting to the delegations here met to-  gether, as the representative of a country propi-  tious to the pursuit and achievement of Unesco's  aims, since we have ever been concerned to hon-  our and - this is perhaps our greatest title to  pride - passionately to defend in their purest form  the principles of liberty, culture and democracy.
(71) The PRESIDENT - (Translation from the  French) I thank the delegate of Uruguay and I call  upon the delegate of Guatemala.
(72) Mr.Adalberto JIMENEZ (Guatemala) - (Trans-  lation from the Spanish) Mr. President, ladies and  gentlemen, as spokesman of the delegation of  Guatemala I am happy to offer our warmest greet-  ings to this distinguished assembly in which all  continents are represented and which is delibera-  ting problems that concern: all men and peoples on  this earth. The wide-ranging and generous altru-  ism evinced by Unesco for seven years past merits  not only the applause of all but the determined sup-  port of every individual and every nation.
(73) As I do not wish to repeat what has already  been said by earlier speakers, I shall be verybrief.
(74) Unesco already has a history, and we have  therefore the light of the past to guide us in reach-  ing a general verdict upon it. The Director-  General's most interesting Report makes quite  clear to us the harsh dilemmas amid which Unesco  moves - great designs set against scanty resources,  and aspirations materially impossible of fulfilment,  rather like the antithesis between dreaming and  waking.
(75) Most of the peoples are very similarly placed.  However, considering the scantiness of its resour-  ces, Unesco has done much, and a glance at the  world will afford us a further appreciation of what  has been accomplished. It is work that has meant,  throughout, teaching peoples and countries and  whole regions how to overcome the lack of material,  of experts, of means, for ultimately if must be the  peoples themselves who shape their destiny from  their own resources and contrive to recreate them-  selves and raise their living standards without the  need for a fatalistic submission to the headlong  process of industrialization that has marked some  of the advanced peoples.  II-10
(76) Unesco determined which were the major col-  lective problems and went on to study them with a  view to their solution. It pointed to the urgent need  for giving attention to the education and culture of  the under-privileged peoples, not because, as is  commonly said, the illiterate masses are a threat  to peace, but in obedience to the loftiest motives of  humanity and justice. Illiterates do not make war,  they endure it. They live at peace, toiling in pov-  erty; it is rather we, the literate, the learned, the  dwellers in cities, who, in one way or another, use  our brains and abilities to organize ourselves for  war.
(77) Unesco'stask is as arduous as it is beneficial.  The custodians of science, art and culture have to  be persuaded to use their possessions generously  and to share them with those who are called the  "culturally under-privileged'. But not only have  we to bring about the cultural redemption of the  great mass of the dispossessed: we have at the  same time to influence the peoples culturally well  dowered to put their resources disinterestedly at  the service of those whose need is greatest.
(78) Of my own country's humble experience I shall  say only that direct contact with the American re-  gional offices, more particularly Patzcuaro and  Havana, enables us to keep well abreast of their  experiments and developments. We are pleased  With the work being done in Guatemala by the five  experts sent out through the Technical Assistance  Department and would mention with special grati-  tude the devoted attention paid to the programme by  the Director of that Department, Mr. Adiseshiah.
(79) The Guatemalan delegation is unresevedly in  favour of the draft programme for 1953-1954 pre-  sented by the Director-General, Mr. Jaime Torres  Bodet.
(80) Lastly, we should like to add that the sympathy  felt by the Guatemalan people for Unesco is all the  greater as a result of a historical coincidence in  that Unesco's initial activities coincided with a  measure prompted by our Philosopher-President  who said: ""We will put the schools on wheels, that  they may go up into the mountains'. Thus a whole  programme of human redemption was not slow in  winning the suffrage of our people. We know there-  fore that, at Unesco's side, we are contributing to  the transformation of the contemporary world. It is  a world in a state not of crisis but of transition, a  world which we might well describe as being at the  crossroads. In the men of that world we must re-  pose all our faith, all our hope, that one day we  may be able, even in the uttermost corners of the  earth, to stretch out our hands unreservedly to a  race of men free, righteous and at peace.
(81) The PRESIDENT - (Translation from the  French) I thank the Guatemalan delegate, and Icall  upon the French delegate.
(82) Mr. André MARIE (France) - (Translation  from the French) Mr. President, ladies and gentle-  - 143 -   II-10  men, I have been greatly touched by what previous  speakers onthis platform have said about my coun-  try. In thanking them very sincerely, I should like  to say once again, especially to those who are with  us for the first time, that they are very welcome  in Paris. Need I repeat that France is honoured by  the choice of her capital as the site of the Organi-  zation's permanent headquarters? I do so only in  so far as that rather obvious assurance may suffice  to place in their right perspective certain difficul-  ties which, I assure you, the French Government  is determined to remove.
(83) I should like to say, Mr. President, that the  French delegation was deeply moved by the noble  words Dr. Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan addressed to  the Conference after his unanimous election. The  same is true of the fine speech by the Chairman of  the Executive Board, who with outspoken courage  and in graphic terms protested that the word "sta-  bilization' applied to an institution hardly seven  years old and responsible for a tremendous task,  was a euphemism unacceptable tothe keen minds of  those who, like Mr. Carneiro himself, are imbued  with the international spirit.
(84) After commemorating the great figures who,  though death has taken them, have fortunately left  us their example and whose names we shall rever-  ently perpetuate by the annual award of the Ellen  Wilkinson, Léon Blum and Stefano Jacini Fellow-  ships, I cannot refrain from joining in the public  tribute, Mr. Director-General, to your unshakable  faith, your sound judgment, and the crushing bur-  den of work thatnone but you could perform without  falling by the wayside. It is a tribute that you re-  ceive every year, but you earn it every day. If  Unesco represents the conscience of the United Na-  tions, you represent the conscience of Unesco.
(85) Mr. Director-General, your Report, which in  its new form follows the logical order of our Orga-  nization's aims and so succeeds in avoiding two pit-  falls - the satiety that comes from excessive sub=  division and the impression of triviality created by  too much generalization - would suffice to prove,  were that still necessary, that Unesco has now pas-  sed beyond the stage of promises. As for the pro-  posed programme and the budget estimates which  the Chairman of the Executive Board and you have  conjointly put before us, they lay the soundest pos-  sible foundation for the work of the Conference, and  we are most grateful to you.
(86) This year, again, France takes her stand re-  solutely among those nations which agree with the  Executive Board and the Director-General that it -  would be agrave mistake to make arestrictive se-  lection among the projects set forth in the pro-  gramme and thus destroy the balance of the pro-  gramme, since its component parts, though mani-  fold in form, are, none the less, firmly held to-  gether and form a coherent whole. Besides, isthere  anyone who would seriously propose that scientific  research should be deliberately slowed down, in  order to pay for the dissemination tothe peoples of  PLENARY MEETINGS  the existing stock of knowledge ? We reject notonly  the idea of any incompatibility between these two  equally imperative duties, but also the idea that  there can be any discrimination between them from  the point of view of urgency.
(87) Like the authorities that direct Unesco, we  do not propose that the budget should be considered  separately from the programme. Although the de-  mands of the financial recovery that France is  striving to achieve restrict our possibilities for the  time being and can leave you in no doubt of our  opposition to any superfluous expenditure, we are  so deeply convinced of the rewards to be gained  from our contributions in furtherance of Unesco's  activities that we shall make every effort to pro-  vide the Organization with the funds - closely  estimated - required for the accomplishment of its  tasks. Our country is under the inescapable and  prime necessity of paying heavily for the protection  of its physical security; but it is none the less re-  solved to persevere in the work of international co-  operation which is the basis of Unesco's existence,  If, however, once the continuity of Unesco's per-  manent services have been assured, problems  should arise concerning the order of priority of  various short- or long-term projects, the French  delegation hopes that the General Conference will  not delegate the power of decision which rests with  it and should remain with it in that respect
(88) This is not the place to enter into the details  of the programme proposed to us. But I feel that I  should, even at this stage, give at least a clear ex-  planation of the spirit in which we must approach  the programme. In the light of past experience,  and with due allowance for the Organization's re-  sources in money and personnel, it is evident that  a selection will have to be made. In our view, the  problem cannot be satisfactorily solved either by a  skilfully calculated system of priorities, or by  applying a percentage reduction to be uniformly  distributed over every chapter of the programme.  That would satisfy everyone and no one. We should  have approved certain sections, but should we have  provided the means of giving effect to them? For  our part, we recognize only one priority, that pre-  scribed to us by our Constitution. Education,  science, culture: it was no mere chance that led  our founders to choose those three terms, after  long discussions in London.
(89) This basic programme which we inherited,  after all, from the now extinct International Institute  of Intellectual Co-operation, consists essentially in  certain tasks of co-ordination, stimulation, and  experimentation with the aim of assisting or guiding  activities, whether governmental or not, which, if  Unesco didnot exist, would be condemned to steril-  ity or at the least to dissipation, but which we do  not consider it desirable for the Organization itself  to undertake. Itis obvious, too, that any programme  that called for wide-ranging application or action of  too vast a scale would rapidly exhaust Unesco's  normal funds. If, therefore, we wanted to work  - 144 -   PLENARY  along those lines, we should be obliged, in order  to meet fresh needs, to call on extraordinary funds,  entirely unconnected with our ordinary budget - as  we have done, for instance, in the case of techni-  cal assistance. If we could not agree to that we  should be only too likely to fail both in the bigger  projects that entail direct action and in the more  limited task allotted to us by our founders.
(90) That task is, of course, animated by the over-  ruling determination to establish peace, real peace,  the peace for which all nations are longing and  calling. It is a determination that is shared by the  United Nations and all the Specialized Agencies,  which must be prepared to make every sacrifice  necessitated by that great design. When Unesco is  asked to ensure that each of its activities shall be  imbued to the core with the spirit of international  understanding, it must always respond to that ap-  peal; it has always done so. When it is asked to  make a special and urgent effort to remedy a tra-  gic situation resulting from grave events - I am  thinking now of Korea - it does not hold back. But  I repeat, very firmly, that, apart from exceptional  emergencies such as these, the Organization cannot  expend its limited resources on tasks which would  be practically endless and which, in any case, are  alien to its ordinary programme.
(91) In the sphere of education, acting in complete  agreement with the International Bureau of Educa-  tion - the co-operation of whose distinguished  director, our eminent colleague Mr. Piaget, the  Sorbonne is proud to have secured for a time -  Unesco has achieved important results, both in the  introduction of new methods of teaching and in the  education of backward children. Technical prob-  lems, such as that of the revision of history text-  books in a spirit free from all hostile prejudice,  have been considered at international meetings  which have occupied our attention. For we are  among those who have always maintained that these  direct contacts do more than anything else to pro-  mote understanding among nations. Our delega-  tion also fully agrees with the Head of the United  States delegation when he stresses the importance,  in Unesco's programme, of everything connected  with "Education for living in a World Community".  I am convinced that the good citizen of any nation  must also be a good citizen of the world, just as one  cannot be a good citizen of the world without also  being a good citizen of one's own country. France  will take an active share in working out whatever  recommendations are to be made by the Organiza-  tion in that vast field, and in my capacity as French  Minister for Education, I shall make it my business  to see that those recommendations are carried out  as rapidly as possible, both inthe school syllabuses  and in the programmes of our Youth movements. I  should like to say that there is shortly to be opened,  at Dakar, a federal centre where the French Gov-  ernment intends to train the staff and work up the  educational materials required for the extension of  fundamental education in our African territories.  MEETINGS II-10
(92) In the field of science, nothing it seemsto us,  can be retrenched from a programme framed and  operated by scientists who are grouped, according  to their respective specialities, in the various  international scientific unions which are themsel-  ves affiliated to the International Council of Scien-  tific Unions. France is happy to have contributed  to the work of the European Centre for Nuclear  Research, and to the decision to establish an inter-  national laboratory for nuclear research at Geneva.  She is also interested in the work of the Advisory  Committee on Arid Zone Research, and in the  forthcoming creation of an International Computa-  tion Centre in Rome. But while we have given par-  ticular attention to pure research, which alone can  contribute to intellectual advancement, we do not  regard that as a reason for neglecting the applied  sciences which can bring about the immediate im-  provement of the conditions of human existence.
(93) Nor do we wish to drop any of the cultural  activities - so varied, and all so necessary - de-  veloped by Unesco. As successful examples of  that work I may mention the conclusion of the Uni-  versal Copyright Convention, which has already  been signed by 35 States; the drafting of the Inter-  national Convention for the Protection of Cultural  Property in the event of Armed Conflict, which is  about to be submitted to you; the resolutions of the  Conference on the position of artists held at  Venice; the remarkable results achieved by the  International Council for Philosophy and Humani's-  tic Studies and the parallel effort in the sphere of  the social and legal sciences. And since the role  of Unesco is to foster relations between peoples  and civilizations, I should like to stress the spe-  cial importance we attach to the exchange of books  and to translations, a matter regarding which sug-  gestions have recently been put forward by certain  committees of experts andby the International Ad-  visory Committee on Bibliography. Unesco alone  is in a position, not, indeed, to organize the dis-  tribution of books at its own expense, but to create  the necessary working instruments which no coun-  try can now procure by its unaided efforts.
(94) I could give many more examples; the lesson  to be drawn from all would be that our best method  of gradually reaching and educating the masses, is  to refuse to make any sacrifice of science or cul-  ture. It is only after obtaining from ethnologists  and linguists a scientific definition of the nature of  the racial concept as it exists today, midway  through the twentieth century, that we can hope to  wipe out the last traces of the racial theory and all  the horrors which it engendered. By research in  that direction the Department of Social Sciences is  proving that Unesco's aims all combine to form a  coherent whole.
(95) Certain of the achievements, chiefly of a tech-  nical nature, to which I have referred, show that  for certain projects included in Unesco's pro-  gramme useful results have been obtainable on a  regional scale. Without evading a fact that has been  = 145 -   II-10  stressed by several previous speakers, France  wishes, however, to point out that, while it may  sometimes be found expedient to conclude regional  agreements, we should never lose sight of the ba-  sic principle of the Organization, which is its uni-  versality.
(96) And in thus drawing attention to the dangers  of a dissipation of efforts latent in an injudicious  policy of regionalism, I should like to refer to the  wish, which I do not doubt is shared by us all, to  maintain, in confronting the present vicissitudes  of international policy, that breadth of view, that,  if I may so call it, detachment which can and must  continue to be the hallmark of an institution devo-  ted to the things of the mind. As you frankly and  shrewdly pointed out in your speech, Mr. Director-  General, it must not be forgotten that Unesco is  one of the Specialized Agencies of the United Na-  tions, and that it would therefore be absurd to  claim that it can be dissociated from the others.  But you pointed out no less clearly that - I quote  your own words, for I will not try to put it better -  for Unesco to accept "political responsibility for  its own actions' is by no means to depart from  "those moral and intellectual laws by which its  conduct must be guided - universality, mutual un-  derstanding, free discussion'. Let us cling to our  precious privilege, we whose horizon will never be  bounded by immediate concerns; do not let us per-  mit passing storms to disturbthe calm atmosphere  of our debates.
(97) For similar reasons, the French delegation  declines to accept any suggestion which might re-  sult in the Executive Board's being composed of  mere government nominees in place of eminent in-  dividuals selected in a manner that ensures the  impartiality of their decisions.
(98) While Unesco must take care to avoid eventhe  suspicion of serving other ends thanits own, that  does not mean that it should not do its utmost to  spread the spirit of international understanding.  Our delegation is convinced that, side by side with  the indispensable long-term tasks that are being  carried out by the National Commissions in every  country, there is room for other ventures which  might have a happy influence on public opinion. At  a time when the International City of Youth, in  which we place such high hopes and which is of  French inspiration, is about to be founded in Paris,  might it not be possible to open at Unesco House,  by the joint efforts of Unesco and the French au-  thorities, a school for the children of staff mem-  bers, endowed with modern equipment? Would not  the success of such a school open up fresh pros-  pects for the educational world?
(99) These, ladies and gentlemen, are some of  the ideas that have been suggested to the French  delegation bythe reading of the Director-General's  Report and the draft programme. All of them, in-  cluding those which may at first have struck you  as purely technical, are in reality of little account  when compared with the immense significance that  PLENARY MEETINGS  France attributes to the honour of being present  among you. The words inscribed over the entrance  to all our public buildings make it unnecessary for  me to dwell at greater length on that point. But  while, in signing the Charter of the United Nations,  the Constitution of Unesco, and the Universal De-  claration of Human Rights, France was, above all,  remaining loyal to her own traditions, she was  also accepting, consciously and permanently, a  number of obligations towards the international  community, obligations which, I assure you, my  ‘country does not intend to neglect.
(100) The PRESIDENT - (Translation from the  French) Fellow delegates and dear colleagues, this  brings us to the end of the list of speakers who  expressed the wish to take part in the present de-  bate. It is my privilege today to be taking the place  of our President, but I feel it my duty to thank on  his behalf the speakers who have made such a lofty  and penetrating contribution to the consideration of  the documents submitted to us by the Director-  General. This discussion is both a landmark and  a fresh starting-point for our Organization, and a  source of inexhaustible hope for us all.
(101) I now have the pleasure of calling upon the  Director-General.  REPLY BY THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL
(102) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL - (Translation  from the French) Mr. President, ladies and gent-  lemen, I shall not attempt to sum up the very full  and interesting discussion which has just taken  place, and in which 47 delegations have stated their  views on the general situation. But I may, per-  haps, tell you what impressions this discussion  has made upon me and what ideas I have drawn  from it about certain matters which will be of  particular importance in your subsequent work,
(103) May I say, first of all, how greatly touched  I have been by your unanimous expression of satis-  faction at the general progress of the Organization,  "Unesco in action" was the theme of my Report.  Each one of you has given eloquent testimony to  the vitality and efficacy of Unesco as an active  body. And I venture to add that you yourselves, in  the name of your governments, have given further  proof that Unesco is a real force, by the spirit of  tolerance and understanding which has informed  the whole of this discussion, and by your testimony,  often repeated, to the determination we all share  to serve the cause of peace and social progress  while safeguarding freedom of the mind. I have  been much impressed by that testimony and by the  spirit that it exhibits. They are of no small value  in the present state of the world.
(104) Next, I should like to tell you how gratefull  am for the warm confidence you have shown in me;  it has moved me very deeply. The times we live  in are full of uncertainly and anxiety for any think-  - 146 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  ing man, and the burden borne by those responsible  for the day-to-day administration of international  institutions grows ever more onerous. I find great  comfort in the knowledge that I can count on your  understahding and support. I thank you with all  my heart.
(105) The praise you have been kind enough to  give to what I have tried to do has been earned by  the whole Secretariat. It is no easy matter to  build up an international Secretariat; nor can it be  done overnight. By their energy and efficiency,  the staff I have the honour to lead have richly  merited your good opinion,
(106) Lastly, I Must not fail to say how grateful I  am to the members of the Executive Board, and  particularly to their distinguished Chairman, for  the wise counsel and support they have always  given me. Their devotion to the cause of Unesco,  and the friendship with which they honour me,  have constantly been put to the best possible effect  for the greater good of the Organization. At this  time, when you are about to discuss a draft amend-  ment to the Constitution which will entail a change  in the composition of this basic organ, it is only  right that I should tell you how happy and fruitful  has been the constant collaboration between the  Board and myself over the past four years. That  too, is an invaluable asset, to which due consider-  ation should be given.
(107) My grateful reference to such subjects of  satisfaction must not lead you to think that I have  failed to take account of the less favourable com-  ments and criticisms, with which certain delega-  tions have qualified their approval of the work as  a whole. On the contrary, I have given special  thought to both.
(108) No one is more alive than I am to the faults  which must be remedied if the Organization's ef-  ficiency is to be still further increased. Far from  feeling irritated, I welcome every one of the con-  structive criticisms which have been advanced as  a salutary reminder of the need tobring fresh light  to bear on the difficulties which have still to be  solved. If I confine myself to a brief outline of  those difficulties today, it is not in an effort to  evade the issue but simply because the requisite  discussion in detail can only be properly conducted  in the Commissions and Committees of the Con-  ference.
(109) The Head of the Swedish delegation has ex-  pressed some doubts and put forward certain  suggestions concerning the organization of the  Secretariat. I shall deal with these in the Admin-  istrative Commission when that question comes up  for discussion. Several delegations have made  general or particular criticisms about our public-  ations. You will have an opportunity to debate this  question with all the facts before you during the  discussion of the draft programme and budget.
(110) There is only one other general observation,  presented by the Head of the Swedish delegation,  to which I wish to refer today - not to suggest that  I-10  it is unnecessary but, on the contrary, to endorse  it with all my heart. I refer to the warning he gave  you against the development of bureaucracy and  his appeal to you to guard against that danger. I  associate myself with both his warning and his  appeal. I am not a bureaucrat by disposition or  training. Nor am I responsible for the unwieldy  administrative machinery which the Secretariat  has to employ, any more than I am for the multi-  plicity of documents which it has to produce in  connexion with all its operations. In fact, I am the  first to suffer from them. I shall therefore be  grateful for any decision which the General Con-  ference may take to lighten our burden in that re-  spect. Soundness of thought and efficacy of action  are not to be measured by the volume of paper  poured out. I believe that the Conference could  dispense with certain special reports, and that  even basic documents, like the Draft Programme  and Budget, could with advantage be simplified; it  is not by accumulation of detail that the maximum  clarity is secured. So far as the regular conduct  of the Organization's work is concerned, while  Member States must be consulted whenever neces-  sary upon important decisions and kept properly  informed about the results achieved, it is probably  not absolutely essential that they should be con-  sulted and informedon all the various stages in the  study of a project or on the details of preliminary  negotiations. This applies, naturally, to the re-  ports intended for Member States and not to the  actual working papers, which are indispensable if  the conferences and committees convened by Unes-  coin connexion with the execution of its programme  are to carry out their work efficiently.
(111) In considering my Report on the Organiza-  tion's present position you have naturally been led,  “as indeed the Executive Board had asked you to do,  to give your views on the steps to be taken in the  immediate future, that is to say on the programme  and budget for the next financial period.
(112) So far as the programme is concerned, there  seems to be unanimous agreement on the principle  of concentration. Satisfaction has been expressed  at the progress made in that respect in recent  years, and particularly since the adoption of the  basic programme at Florence in 1950. You have  stated your determination to be yet more vigilant  on this point. I have already said - and several  delegations have pointed it out - that the views ex-  pressed are also mine. I repeat once more that  the greatest danger Unesco has to guard against is  a dissipation of effort. .
(113) But it is not enough for everyone to say the  same thing. Everyone must also mean the same  thing. Is this so in our case? I should be glad to  think so. But I am not quite sure. I am afraid  that there may still be some misunderstanding.  And it may perhaps be worth while for me to dwell  on this very important point, if only to dispel any  possible misinterpretation of my own views.
(114) In my opinion, as in that of the Executive  - 147 -   II-10  Board, concentration of the programme means,  above all, a rational co-ordination of the various  projects included in it so that they make up a whole  systematically designed to achieve the major ends  for which Unesco was created. Concentration  means combining in a properly balanced and well  integrated whole three separate factors - the re-  sponsibilities of the Organization, the interests  and resources of Member States, the possibilities  offered by and problems inherent in the lines of  research and the technical methods involved. It  does not mean choosing between those responsibil-  ities, interests and possibilities, and dropping  some while retaining others. We have no justifi-  cation, in law or in fact, for any such abandonment  or curtailment, which would result not only in an  unwarranted reduction of the Organization's use-  fulness but also in an arbitrary interference with  its proper balance.
(115) I am glad to note that many delegations,  among which I was pleased to find the French dele-  gation, have pointed out very forcibly that the twin  ideas of a concentrated and a balanced programme  cannot be separated. To those, on the other hand,  who think that greater concentration can be secured  by sacrificing the balance of the whole, I would  merely point out that the discussion which has just  taken place affords pragmatical proof that it would  be impossible to agree on any concrete scheme by  that means. Several delegations have suggested  that large-scale reductions might be made in cer-  tain fields so as further to develop our activities  in others, but you have seen for yourselves that  none of these proposals fits in with the others.  What one delegation wishes to curtail another  wishes to increase, and vice versa. That is only  natural, for the needs and aspirations of 65 coun-  tries are obviously not likely to be identical.
(116) That is the first clear fact by which our work  is governed. What we do must be based on a recog-  nition of the living variety of the world and the  fruitful diversity of the mind. It follows that in the  choice to which we are forced by the need for con-  centration we have to strike as nice a balance as  possible between grading and harmonization. There  is no doubt that that is a difficult, a very difficult  task. But all other avenues are blind alleys.
(117) That being so, has the discussion brought out  the expediency or even the possibility of any major  modifications in the draft programme before you?  Frankly I do not think so. The reason is that this  balanced programme is a minimum programme,  having regard tothe stage the Organization's devel-  opment has reached, the hopes it has raised, and the  capacities it has demonstrated. The nearer we are  to the minimum, the more difficult it is to make  any change in the general balance of activities.
(118) I quite appreciate the desire which several  delegations have expressed for the extension of  certain activities. It is a desire which I myself  share, and, in my opening speech, I ventured to  suggest some of the activities which seemed to me  PLENARY MEETINGS  most important. But, I say again, I do not believe  it is possible to do that by any radical readjustment  within the draft programme and budget; to secure  the necessary funds, such adjustments would nec-  essarily entail either an elimination of activities  which would. destroy the essential balance of the  programme, or substantial reductions which, as  these activities are already planned on a minimum  scale, would be equivalent to eliminating them  outright.
(119) Should you wish therefore, as you are per-  fectly entitled to do, to stress the development of  certain priority activities, the only way for you to  do so is not to reshuffle allocations within the  present budget, but to make increases above the  figure of the budget submitted to you. In other  words, the priorities which the working party set  up at the request of the United States delegation  will have to fix in the light of and following the  discussion of the Programme and Budget Commis-  sion, must be understood as lines for the Organi-  zation's development, not as directives for cutting  it down. I am much obliged to the Head of the  United States delegation for the explanations he  has himself given on this point.
(120) Whether there is to be concentration by co-  ordination, which preserves the balance and vari-  ety of the Organization's programme, while leaving  it free to develop, or concentration by amputation,  which upsets the present equilibrium and compro-  mises the future, is a matter you will determine  when you decide on the budget figure. For the  figure you adopt will determine whether it is pos-  sible to apply the former, or whether it is neces-  sary to fall back on the latter for lack of funds.
(121) It is natural therefore that a number of  delegations should already have broached this  question, the traditional Gordian knot of General  Conferences. Some, indeed, have suggested spe-  cific figures. I shall refrain from saying anything  about them today, because I shall shortly have the  opportunity, when the budget is under discussion,  to make my views clear in going through the main  ideas contained in the introduction to the Proposed  Programme and Budget Estimates.
(122) The general discussion has shown that, as  in previous years, there are two conflicting lines  of thought: development and stabilization. The  principle of development, by which I mean a steady  and rational development of the Organization, is  the one the Executive Board and I have adopted as  a basis for the general plan of ‘the programme  submitted to you. Stabilization is a term requiring  definition. If what is meant is stabilization of the  Organization's activities, it must be realized that  even the maintenance of the present level entails  higher contributions, on account of the increase in  general expenses. If on the other hand it means,  as some delegations have stated, stabilization of  contributions, then everyone here must clearly  realize that that will mean cutting down the Organ-  ization's activities and therefore a retreat.  - 148 -   PLENARY MEETINGS
(123) I shall not say any more today on that sub-  ject. I merely wish to ask that when you take your  decision on this vital problem you will remember  what you yourselves said during the general dis-  cussion, about Unesco's progress and the way in  which it has added to its right to your peoples!"  gratitude. These formal statements were received  with relief by public opinion, and by myself too.  Public opinion will find it hard to understand why,  aîter unanimously expressing your appreciation of  Unesco's development, you should decide to check,  nay even to reverse, that development at the exact  moment when each of your countries and the inter-  national community as a whole are beginning, on  your own admission, to feel its beneficial effects,  as the delegations of Costa Rica, Ceylon, Uruguay,  Thailand and of so many other countries have  movingly testified.
(124) Many delegations - including, this morning,  that of the United States of America - have recom-  mended that Unesco should increase its participa-  tion in the United Nations Expanded Programme  of Technical Assistance to economically under-  developed countries. Inmy opinion that programme  is one of the most remarkable our century has  -witnessed. But there has, from the beginning, been  a tendency - reflected in many of the speeches we  have heard since Wednesday - to transfer to the  technical assistance plan part of Unesco's normal  programme. This to my mind is a very dangerous  move, for the implementation of technical assist-  ance projects and the allocation of funds rests,  subject to the approval of the Economic and Social  Council, with bodies of which Unesco, like the  other Specialized Agencies, is indeed a member,  but not the only member, and so not authorized to  take decisions on its own. It is those bodies which  are responsible for co-ordinating plans and fixing  the estimates for experts, study fellowships and  materials. And the General Conference would be  shirking its responsibilities if it were to cut down  the Organization's own programme in the vain  hope that the cut might be made good by the tech-  nical assistance programme. Thereby you would  merely lose control both of the programme and of  the budget.
(125) Secondly, it was because Unesco had already  built up great experience that it was able to give  effective assistance, down to the smallest details,  to the joint United Nations programme. The gen-  eral education missions it had already sent to Af-  ghanistan, Burma and Thailand prepared the plans  and paved the way, so that the Technical Assistance  missions were able to begin constructive work at  once. The experiments in fundamental education  already embarked upon served as a basis for work  on technical assistance, as in Haiti; or provided  an example and a training ground for specialists  later sent on mission to other countries. The work  done in association with the International Bureau  of Education on free and compulsory primary edu-  cation, carried out and ratified under the authority  II-10  of the Conference on Public Education at Geneva,  guided experts in many countries in drawing up  schemes for the improvement of education. The  regional conferences we have planned in connexion  with that programme can only be held within the  framework of Unesco's normal programme. Thanks  to the contacts we have established with scientific  circles, the surveys we have made and the direc-  tories we have compiled on laboratory and teaching  equipment, publications and scientific institutes,  we have been able to meet requests concerning ex-  perts, places for specialized study and the supply  of equipment. I may, indeed, say that it is our  normal programme which has accelerated imple-  mentation of the technical assistance plan, and  enabled us to contribute to its continually increas-  ing claims.
(126) Nor is this all. As several delegations have  pointed out, technical assistance would soon be-  come impossible, or even dangerous, but: for the  existence of a balanced programme of education,  science and culture. In the life of the mind every-  thing is interdependent. There can be no vocational  training which is not based on solid primary and  secondary education and crowned by higher educa-  tion and research institutes. International or  regional activity in this field is conceivable only  within the framework of Unesco. Moreover, tech-  nical assistance, with its industrial and economic  repercussions, cannot fail to work changes on the  social and human levels; the research of sociolo-  gists, and their warnings, are of evident and urgent  importance. Our normal programme in that field  has no counterpart in the technical assistance  programme.
(127) In the face of the general transformation  brought about by ever wider and ever more rapid  exchanges, it has been our constant concern to  safeguard the cultural values of each nation. In-  deed, there would soon be very little of value to  exchange, were each country to sink its originality  in a single uniform civilization; it is vital that all  civilizations shall be protected and developed. The  normal programme, therefore, includes a whole  series of activities which find no place in the Ex-  panded Programme of Technical Assistance. There  is, in every civilization, a storehouse of human-  istic achievements which prevents peoples in an  age that accords an overriding precedence to eco-  nomic interests, from becoming dehumanized.  Even as individuals and society draw the breath of  life from the balanced combination of the elements  of which they are composed, so the normal pro-  gramme of Unesco derives its worth from the  balance between education, science and culture in  its composition. I should like to repeat here a  phrase used by the English historian, Arnold  Toynbee, which I quoted once before, at a meeting  of the Economic and Social Council: "Every cul-  ture is a 'whole' whose parts are subtly interde-  pendent, and to export the husk without the grain  may be as deadly as to radiate the satellite elect-  - 149 -   II-10  rons of an atom without the nucleus". Our normal  programme as a whole is in fact designed to pre-  serve those nuclei intact, and so protect the coun-  tries affected bytechnicalassistance from harmful  effects.
(128) Finally, the technical assistance programme  has a time-limit as well as a limited field of appli-  cation. It does not absolve the beneficiary States  from a general and sustained effort to transform  into a living reality man's right to the benefits of  education, science and culture. There you have  an opportunity for international collaboration of  very varied kinds, going far beyond the limits of  short-term missions and justifying the research  work and stimulus increasingly afforded by the  normal programme as well as its fundamentally  universal character.
(129) Moreover, at its Fourth Session in 1949,  the General Conference formally affirmed the  necessity for distinguishing between the two pro-  grammes and of preserving the individuality and  integrity of the normal programme. I cannot do  better than quote the terms of resolution 12. 491:  "It is recognized by the General Conference that a  clear operational and financial distinction must at  all times be preserved between Unesco's normal  programme activities and its technical assistance  activities. The first, carried out under detailed  instructions from the General Conference in the  interests of all Members, represent the continuing  and basic work of Unesco, which includes forms of  technical assistance not expressly designed to  foster economic development; the second, financed  by voluntary means are particular tasks undertaken  at the explicit request of certain States for certain  definite economic objectives, though still falling  within some of the broad functions and purposes  defined in Unesco's Constitution.
(130) "Any assimilation of these two ranges of  activity - though in many cases they are of the  same character - can only imperil the balance and  continuity of Unesco's -normal operations. Hence  any transfer of activities from the normal pro-  gramme to the technical assistance programme,  or vice versa, would be likely to disturb the proper  distribution of normal programme operations among  all Member States.
(131) "This does not, however, debar the Director-  General, in the interests of economy and efficien-  cy, from making whatever administrative and staff  arrangements he considers best for the purpose of  meeting the additional tasks laid upon him by this  plan". ;
(132) That concludes my quotation from the reso-  lution of the General Conference. I want however,  to emphasize one point: I regard technical assist-  ance as one of the great projects of the present  century. I should be delighted if, in future, Unesco  couid rely on having not merely 5 million dollars  a year for that purpose, but a great deal more,  because the requirements of technical assistance  are immense. But I should strongly oppose - and  PLENARY MEETINGS  I want to state this very clearly - any suggestion  that the effort being made in the field of technical  assistance might be used as a pretext for reducing  "pro tanto the ordinary programme and budget,  which are Unesco's fundamental responsibility,
(133) In conclusion, I believe that technical assist-  ance presupposes a balanced normal programme,  and that the more fully that programme is applied  and implemented the more effective technical as-  sistance will be. Far from encroaching on the  sphere of Unesco's own efforts, it requires that  Unesco shall be more completely and fully itself.  It is in so far as its normal programme is re-  spected that Unesco, on its side, will remain able  to carry out the tasks of techncial assistance, the  multiplicity and urgency of which it fully realizes.
(134) I am also grateful to the various delegations  who have suggested ways of increasing the effi-  ciency and influence of the Organization; and I be-  lieve that the General Conference would be well  advised to study these very carefully. But in  frankness I must put the Conference on its guard  against certain dangers. I believe that the possi-  bilities which these suggestions have in mind are  extremely interesting, but I also know - as I think  my Report proves - that they are, to a large extent,  only possibilities. Therefore, the advantage of  seeking ways of realizing these suggestions would  be counterbalanced, were we to fail, by the danger  of sacrificing to them what already exists and has  been achieved.
(135) I fear that this is the case with regard to the  proposal for developing the National Commissions,  which several delegations - the Australian, to  name only one - have eloquently advocated. No  one is more in favour than I am of such a develop-  ment, which is essential if the Organization is to  become a vital force in the life of the peoples of  the world. But I am bound to admit that the posi-  tion is still very inadequate in the large majority  of Member States. You will be receiving the Re-  port of the Fourth Conference of Representatives  of National Commissions, which took place a few  days before your General Conference, and you will  be able to consider it when you study the section of  the proposed programme which deals, under the  heading of general resolutions, with liaison with  the National Commissions. I am sure you will not  fail to be struck, as I have been, by two facts. The  first is that the National Commissions themselves  stress the point that the exiguous funds at their  disposal do not as yet enable them, with very few  exceptions, to play a really important part in the  execution of the programme. The second fact is  that, if the National Commissions are to play an  active and growing part in this task, the Organiza-  tion's international programme must be sufficiently  varied and balanced for each country to find init  some projects of immediate interest to itself.
(136) I therefore think that, in the present circeum-  stances, we should be deluding ourselves if we  supposed that we were entitled to leave much more  - 150 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  to the National Commissions than is provided for  in the proposed programme, or that we could cor-  respondingly reduce the resources of the interna-  tional executive body, that is, the Secretariat.  I will even go further and say that, if we wish to  assist the growth of the National Commissions,  special action of a stimulating and ancillary kind  by the Secretariat should be envisaged. This  emerges clearly from the discussions which took  place during the meeting of representatives of  these Commissions. It is indeed so obvious that,  if that proposal - and it is an excellent one - were  to be pushed to its logical and natural conclusion,  we should have to provide, not for a decrease but,  on the contrary, for an increase in the expenses of  the Secretariat, in the form of liaison staff, travel  of officials, publication of information - all of  them things which seem particularly unpopular  with certain delegations.
(137) A word of explanation on this point. I have  never identified the Organization with the Secre-  tariat and have often, in fact, said exactly the  opposite. So when I speak of the Organization's  development as something right and necessary I  do not mean the development of the Secretariat as  anend initself. The greater Unesco for which I hope  and which I believe with all my heart responds to  an imperative need of the contemporary world,  whether felt consciously or unconsciously, is not  just a body of officials, however competent. For  myself, as for the Lebanese delegate, whose words  moved me deeply, Unesco must achieve its purpose  as part of a great spiritual movement uniting the  common man and the leaders of thought, a move-  ment which finds in an inter-governmental agency  an effective instrument - but only an instrument -  for clarifying its aspirations and translating them  into action.
(138) Accordingly, when I ask for an increase in  the budget of the Secretariat, I do so only because,  whether we will or no, the Secretariat remains the  indispensable agent, not merely, as one would ex-  pect, for co-ordinating the Organization's efforts,  but also for stimulating and bringing to fruition its  activities in Member States. The fact that this  situation is unsatisfactory and needs changing does  not alter the fact that it exists.
(139) Much has also been said of the increasing  assistance that can be given to Unesco by interna-  tional organizations of specialists. That assist-  ance, I am pleased to acknowledge, is already  very considerable, and to it Unesco owes in a  large measure the growth in its efficiency and  authority. But here too, I must warn you against  hasty conclusions. Do not imagine that this re-  markable network of organizations devoting them-  selves to international intellectual co-operation  can maintain itself by its own resources in staff  and money. Its existence depends to a great degree  on Unesco subventions, the principle of which has  been very properly supported by many delegations.  Its activities and, still more, its extension, nec-  I-10  essary as that is to all parts of the world, require  ceaseless action on the part of the Secretariat,  which, as the leader of the delegation of the Ger-  man Federal Republic very rightly pointed out, is  beyond the reach of any assault on freedom of re-  search, criticism and guidance. Were you to  reduce that financial and technical assistance, the  system would rapidly collapse; it would lose its  international character, and instead of steady  progress towards a universal association of spe-  cialists which Unesco is justly proud of encouraging  and steering towards its peaceful conquests, we  should soon see the technical apparatus of modern  civilization disintegrating around a few privileged  centres. That is certainly not what you want.
(140) That is why in my Report I have classified  assistance to international intellectual co-operation  among the permanent functions of Unesco. I do not  deny the enormous services which international  organizations of specialists render to Unesco, and  to the Secretariat in particular. I would only re-  mind you that Unesco's services and those of the  Secretariat are also necessary to those organiza-  tions and that it would be dangerous to curtail  them. It is as though a guardian were to reduce  the education expenses of his ward on the pretext  that he was doing well in his studies.
(141) Lastly, there is one very important problem,  which the general discussion has very happily  brought out in all its varied aspects: the problem  of regionalization. That problem lies at the root  of Unesco's effectiveness and its universality,  which is no longer an aspiration but a reality. For  as many delegations have forcefully pointed out -  the Indian and Japanese delegations, in particular,  and also the delegations of the European and Com-  monwealth National Commissions - the problem is  that of getting into direct touch with all the peoples  associated in Unesco's work. I hope that that issue  will be thoroughly discussed both in the working  party specially set up for the purpose and then in  the competent Commission, so that the General  Conference may be able to decide on a definite  policy. The lack of precise instructions on the  subject prevented the Executive Board and myself  from submitting to you in the draft programme  anything more than a few administrative provisions  for extending and improving the Secretariat's sys-  tem of contact points and centres of action in the  regions furthest removed from Headquarters. But  an instrument cannot take the place of a policy, and  the discussion that has just occurred has brought  out both the complexity and the need of such a  policy.
(142) Thus, for example, a desire has been ex-  pressed that ways and means be studied of obtain-  ing from Member States a better co-ordination of  their international activities within the framework  of their bilateral and multilateral cultural agree-  ments. The section on cultural agreements, which  appears under the heading of general resolutions in  the draft programme, will give you an opportunity  - 151 -   II-11  for a methodical examination of these far-reaching  possibilities.
(143) Technical assistance, too, raises similar  problems, although in different terms - I mean,  problems of the same sort for the harmonization of  Unesco's world-wide activities with those pursued  by its Member States in their bilateral relations.  There again, by the experience it has accumulated,  the prestige it has acquired, the contacts it has  established and the agreements it has concluded,  Unesco can look forward to an expansion of con-  structive work, provided the objectives to be  attained have been clearly thought out and the nec-  essary means provided. For, in the last resort,  we are always driven back to the notion of develop-  ment, which is the sacred law of life.
(144) The discussion in which, every year, Unes-  co's various activities are weighed one against the  other cannot bear indefinitely on a difference of a  few hundred thousand dollars in the budget figure -  a difference barely equivalent to the cost of a  school, not to make other comparisons. The ques-  tion at issue is one of faith in the capacity of intel-  lectual methods and values to contribute to inter-  national peace and social advancement. But we  must realize that faith always imposes sacrifices.
(145) May I, in conclusion, remind you of one of  PLENARY MEETINGS  the finest pictures painted by Vermeer of Delft.  That picture is now in Vienna and is called "The  Studio" or "The Allegory of Painting". The setting  is a light and richly furnished room, in XVIIth-  century Holland. A young girl, modest and unas-  suming but crowned with laurels, symbolizes fame,  The painter - possibly Vermeer himself - is  bending before her at his easel, with his back  towards us. We cannot see his face; he does not  tell us his secret. He is working humbly, silently,  absorbed in his subject, in a state of complete  self-abnegation. He offers us a magnificent exam-  ple of wisdom. In contemplating the future of  Unesco - a Unesco not yet, alas, crowned with  laurels - our attitude should be that of the myster-  ious creator of Delft before his model, impersonal  and attentive. Amid the diversity which is the  wealth of our Organization, we can meet in a sup-  reme communion - a communion of devotion to the  task to which we have set our hand.
(146) The work of the Conference has hardly be-  gun. I should be most reluctant to delay it. Unesco  is awaiting the resolutions that you are called upon  to take to ensure its future.  The meeting rose at 6.30 p. m.  ELEVENTH PLENARY MEETING  Tuesday, 18 November 1952, at 10.45 a.m.  President: Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS (United Kingdom)  CONTENTS  Postponement of consideration of Items 11 and 12 of the  Agenda .
(1) The PRESIDENT - I call the meeting to order.  Under the Rules of Procedure, the General Com-  mittee must fix the hour, date and order of business  of the General Conference. I now have a statement  to make on behalf of the General Committee.  The General Committee, noting that not all  the delegations have as yet received precise  instructions in item 12 of the Agenda, has de-  cided that consideration of this item shall be  of ei ny re fal tee 152  postponed until tomorrow afternoon, at 3.30 p.m.  The consideration of item 11 is also postponed.  MayI assume that that is agreeable to the mem-  bers of the Conference.... In that case the meet-  ing stands adjourned until tomorrow, Wednesday,  at 3.30 p.m.  The meeting rose at 11 a.m.  - 152 -