PLENARY MEETINGS  I-15  FIFTEENTH PLENARY MEETING  Friday, 21 November 1952, at 3.30 p-m.  President: Mr. S.M. SHARIF (Pakistan)  CONTENTS  Discussion of the Budget Estimates for 1953-1954  (continuation): Speeches by the delegates of Cam-  bodia, Brazil,  Sweden,  Colombia,  Canada, Liberia,  New Zealand, France,  Philippines, German  Federal Republic, Japan, Lebanon, Union of South  Africa, Turkey,  and Greece.  Italy,  Decision on the Budget Estimates for 1953-1954.  DISCUSSION OF THE BUDGET ESTIMATES FOR 1953-
(1) The PRESIDENT - The meeting is called to  order. I call upon the leader of the delegation of  Cambodia.
(2) Princess PING PEANG YUKANTHOR (Cam-  bodia) - (Translation from the French) Ladies and  gentlemen, as you know, I spoke yesterday in the  course of the debate on the place of the next session  of Unesco's General Conference, and I outlined  briefly my reasons for opposing the choice of Mon-  tevideo. I should like to add that Cambodia's mili-  tary budget represents 38 per cent of its total  national budget, for our country's position is in-  secure and we have been in a state of war for the  last 12 years. We are making great efforts to  organize the national army, the Royal Cambodian  Army, for we are engaged in a struggle against  people who, under the banner of nationalism and  patriotism, are in reality mere brigands.
(3) I shall speak today in the name of Cambodia  alone; I should not dare to speak on behalf of other  young States as well for fear that they would not  Support me. Cambodia, a newly independent State,  has a profound desire to participate in Unesco's  work and to co-operate with all the Member States  of the Organization; but I consider that Cambodia's  co-operation should not exceed our resources,  which are far below the pre-war figure. On the  other hand, we pride ourselves on keeping our  promises and honouring our signature. Our con-  tributions have always been paid; and that is why I  venture to speak to you of economies and prudence.
(4) Moreover, it is my opinion that small States  have no right to emulate the great powers in all  Mexico, Burma, Belgium  = 187  . 202  respects. In this connexion, I remember very  clearly a fable which I learnt as a child at school,  a fable by La Fontaine, entitled: "The frog who  tried to grow as big as the ox". It seems to me  that the newly formed State of the independent King-  dom of Cambodia is still only a young frog, and we  would not wish this young frog to burst through in-  sensate ambition. The Cambodian delegation there-  fore warmly supports the proposal put forward by  the United Kingdom delegation.
(5) I gather, from conversations I have had, that  certain delegates think that maintaining the 1953  contributions at the 1952 figure would mean bring-  ing Unesco's work to a standstill. In my view,  maintenance of the 1952 figure for 1953 would not  mean stopping work, but merely adjusting it to the  rhythm demanded by the present world situation;  it would be unwise to try to accelerate that rhythm  at too heavy a price.
(6) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Cambodia and call upon the delegate of Brazil.
(7) Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil) - (Translation from  the French) Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen,  the day when the Unesco budget ceiling is discussed  at the General Conference is a time of great stress  and strain. It is also, in certain respects, a pain-  ful time. A detached observer might well wonder  whether, every time its budget is under discussion,  Unesco were being put up for auction, so intent is  everyone on pricing its work as high or as low as  he can. It is a little disquieting for those who, for  the past six years, have watched the progress of  this Organization, to note a kind of rigidity creep-  ing into the attitude of the various Member States  when the conditions that will enable this Organiza-  = 187 -   II-15  tion to go on living are under discussion. We have  come far from the atmosphere of optimism which  prevailed in London when Unesco was first estab-  lished. At that time, there was a feeling of ideal-  ism in the world; the voice of Roosevelt had only  just fallen silent and we were all listening to it  still, in profound emotion.
(8) Unesco, when it was born under the auspices  of the United Nations, came not alone but as one of  a constellation of Specialized Agencies of the United  Nations destined to fight a new battle; the military  battle was already won, the battle for peace had  still to be waged. And all the soldiers in this new  army divested themselves of their weapons and  donned white tunics. Thus we had Unesco, the  World Health Organization, the Food and Agricul-  ture Organization, the International Labour Office,  each with its own special objective in this new  battle, all obeying a common voice and working in  co-ordination. But now we are slowly, day by day,  losing this battle; we lack the great generals by  whom the other battle was won. Didwe ever, in those  sombre years when the fate of civilization was at  stake, haggle over the war budgets? No. Did we  ever count the ships which carried the allies over  the Channel to their glorious victory? No. Did we  ever ask whether the budgets for those operations  represented a strict minimum compatible with the  victory we sought? The world had faith in those  days; and there were great leaders whose voices  were heard all over the world; we had the feeling  that the work of salvation was urgent. What I am  trying to make you all realize is that today is just  as momentous as that fateful day in June. The day  when it is known that Unesco is abandoning its mis-  sion because the 68 Member States cannot agree  over a sum of $1,000,000 will be a day of triumph  for the enemies of peace, the enemies of the col-  lective prosperity of mankind. It would be sad  indeed, Mr. President, if the under-developed  countries to which Unesco has held out such bright  prospects were to realize that the work begun is to  come to nought for lack of a sum which, compared  with the total world budget, to the total expenditure  on collective security, is infinitesimal.
(9) I say this in all sincerity, and I hope you will  believe me, for my words are those of a man who,  having reached maturity, has more interest in the  present than in a future in which he will take no  part. It is therefore in a spirit of complete disin-  terestedness and in the light of six years' work  with this Organization, that I am speaking to you  now, speaking what may well prove to be some of  my last words addressed to you collectively. I am  neither striving for facile eloquence nor seeking  your applause; my words are simply the profession  of faith of a man who believes it his duty to speak  to his fellows in full sincerity. Have we the right,  just now, when the Organization has barely em-  barked on its work, to bring it to a halt and to dis-  appoint the hopes of millions of men who know the  Organization only very vaguely, and from afar, but  PLENARY MEETINGS  who did, none the less, see a gleam of hope when  they were told that the illiterate half of the world's  population was to be saved by Unesco, and that vast  exchanges in all fields - exchanges of information,  culture, people - were to forge contacts between  all the multifarious peoples of the world and weld  them into one. Have w~ the right to disappoint the  popular masses ravaged by ten years of war and  only just beginning to look forward to a happier  future built with the stones we are adding, one by  one, to the edifice of Unesco?
(10) The most serious point, Mr. President, if I  may be allowed to express my personal opinion, is  that the subject of this discussion is essentially  neither financial nor budgetary. If our parliaments  and ministries all over the world really regarded  Unesco as the champion of peace, they would not  now be haggling over the dollars to pay for it. They  are fully aware, all of them, that money invested  in peaceful enterprises brings far greater benefits  both to the peoples and to the governments than  money invested in war. What is reflected in this  discussion - and what for me makes it tragic at  the opening of Unesco's seventh year - is a lack of  confidence in Unesco's mission and its ability to  fulfil that mission. Is it right to disguise this lack  of confidence by a compromise vote on the budget?  I put this to you in all simplicity because I am  afraid that we may end up with a bureaucratic or-  ganization which is inefficient and therefore costly  and which, without giving the peoples of the world  what it promised, has degenerated into a luxury  organization, contemptible as it is idle. A para-  sitic institution is always too expensive, regardless  of what it actually costs. Either Unesco must de-  velop into the active and efficient organization of  our aspirations or else it is our duty to say simply  and frankly to our people: "We have made a mis-  take, the hopes we had in 1945 of creating an or-  ganization for co-ordination of all activities in the  fields of education, science and culture cannot yet  be realized. The world is not yet ripe for an un-  dertaking of this magnitude, nor do the material  and moral foundations for it at present exist".
(11) If, on the other hand, we accept these com-  promises, and agree to see our work being gradu-  ally whittled away, we shall be playing into the  hands of our enemies. A Unesco which lacks the  necessary funds will be ineffective, ineffective be-  cause it will no longer enjoy the whole-hearted  support of parliaments and governments and no  longer feel it can rely on the National Commis-  sions. How will Unesco then be able to respond to  the appeal of its scattered anonymous soldiers -  all the teachers, professors, journalists, librari-  ans and thinkers all over the world - if it is unable  to supply them abundantly with the encouragement  they need, the intellectual and moral munition they  await ?
(12) Brazil is one of the beneficiary countries of  Unesco; but it well understands that the donor  countries, which have no immediate prospect of  - 188 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  assistance, may feel hesitant. Yet, in the long run,  even those countries not in direct need of Unesco's  help do nevertheless stand to benefit from the de-  velopment of regions at present under-developed.  For it is amongst those people whose standard of  culture, health and nutrition is at present inade-  quate that these more advanced countries will find  the markets for their goods. And it is by increas-  ing the purchasing power and raising the standard  of living of these millions at present unable to read  or write, unhealthy, and incapable of industrial  production, that the more privileged countries can  consolidate and increase their own wealth. To pay  Unesco money to be used for developing the under-  developed regions is not, therefore, disinterested  generosity, but a straightforward, profitable in-  vestment. How can we hope for a prosperous and  healthy world until we make people aware of their  duty to the human community? And how can we  look forward to a brighter future unless those re-  sponsible for the world of tomorrow are provided  with the resources they need for improving the lot  of the masses?  . (13) Mr. President, if we search our consciences  in all sincerity, we shall find that the whole of to-  day's discussion changes its complexion. ‘What  we must ask ourselves is whether Unesco's pro-  gramme in fact corresponds fully to the ideal of  peace, prosperity and wisdom assigned to Unesco  in 1945. We are all familiar with the capacity for  self-sacrifice of the British people, a capacity  proved by exemplary heroism on which there is no  need to dwell at this juncture; and we have all paid  tribute to Britain's self-denial for the sake of a  common cause which she had whole-heartedly es-  poused. We all know too, of the boundless gene-  rosity with which the American people responds to  every appeal. Where in the world, save in the  United States of America, does every appeal to  public generosity on behalf of some important work  evoke a response greater than the demand? Where  in the world, outside the United States of America,  dowefind great foundations placing their resources  at the disposal of the whole world for purposes of  scientific research, reconstruction of artistic  monuments, public health projects and a host of  similar enterprises? The crisis we are now facing,  therefore, is a matter not of money but of con-  science. If we are able to reinstate ourselves by  restating our purpose, reinforcing our means and  establishing our position as the champions of a  great world-wide campaign, with precise and co-  herent aims for the furtherance of that peaceful  mission with which we have been entrusted; if we  are able to say to all the peoples, both those who  give and those who receive, that we are, as it were,  a tiny secretariat of ants, striving to give the  grasshoppers all the world over their chance; if  we are able to show that we are working not as a  routine administrative machine, but as anonymous,  laborious toilers, devoted heart and soul to this  common cause, then, Mr. President, neither the  I-15  United Kingdom nor the United States of America  will any longer grudge our Organization the neces-  sary dollars.
(14) It is because I have this confidence, born of  the experience of the past, in all those who created  Unesco, in all those who have acted as the pillars  of this Organization, that I appeal to this assembly,  without a moment's hesitation, to reconsider the  question of the budget in a new light, as the main-  spring of a vital social and moral enterprise; and  it is my conviction that those great countries which,  at the cost of immense effort and sacrifice, are  organizing the material defence of our civilization  against the dangers besetting it will not grudge us  one dollar for its spiritual defence, which is at  least equally urgent and without which this system  of material defence would soon prove vain. Were  the potential enemies to be vanquished by war, the  same danger would inevitably rear its head again  on the morrow of victory, for the germs of revolt,  destruction and internal strife would reappear in  the midst of those very people who had fought to  destroy them elsewhere. It is in the hearts and  minds of man that the real obstacles to progress  and unity lie, and it is in order to surmount those  obstacles. that Unesco is appealing, for the sum of  $20,000, 000, to those 68 Member States who have  proved willing, in other circumstances, to spend  that amount in the space of a single hour in defence  of the civilization whose fate today rests in their  hands.
(15) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Brazil and call upon the delegate of Colombia.
(16) Mr. José Manuel MORA VASQUEZ (Colom-  bia) - (Translation from the Spanish) Mr. Presi-  dent, ladies and gentlemen, the Colombian delega-  tion agrees with the views of the Director-General  and the Chairman of the Executive Board on the  question under discussion. There is a well-known  saying to the effect that we must either go forward  or slip back. We have heard the same idea ex-  pressed here today by the Director-General, who  said that any decrease in Unesco's budget meant  retrogression, For we must be logical; if we can-  not procure sufficient funds to enable Unesco to  carry out its programme, we must retreat, in  preparation for dissolving the Organization. This  Conference presents a curious contradiction. We  are all devoted to Unesco, and yet we are going to  dash its hopes and cut down its activities. So that  Oscar Wilde's paradox is still valid: "for all men  kill the thing they love"; and with Unesco, this is  occurring at the precise moment when, to judge by  the chorus of compliments evoked by the Director-  General's Report, we might with truth have pro-  claimed that Unesco has established its right to  existence.
(17) If it is true that Unesco is one of the most ef-  fective bulwarks of peace, let us then put all our  resources at its service. As Mr. Parra-Perez so  = 189 -   II-15  truly said, the annual budget of Unesco is barely  equivalent to the cost of a few moments of war.  Even from the financial point of view, it is a sound  commercial proposition to grant Unesco an ade-  quate budget. ;
(18) The distinguished delegate of Australia made  several suggestions for cutting down administrative  costs and eliminating a number of cultural mis-  sions. He is, moreover, very anxious about the  next General Conference, to be held in Montevideo,  the beautiful capital of Uruguay and a source of  pride to the whole of Latin America. One day we  Latin Americans will vote to hold the Conference  in Australia, and will be delighted to go there, to-  gether with our experts. In any case, this preoc-  cupation with expenditure on a matter in respect of  which a decision has already been taken is clearly  vulnerable. I am confident that this will be the  view of the Conference. Unesco exists. We have  created, extolled and organized it; and it has be-  come one of the noblest cultural organizations of  all time; perhaps even the noblest of all. Let us  therefore defend it.
(19) From his forthright and analytical statement,  it appears that Mr. Sargeant, the eminent Head of  the United States delegation, is in favour of revis-  ing the Diregtor-General's budget estimates on the  income side. I gather that, in his view, Member  States of Unesco could refuse any demand for in-  creased contributions, and invest the money more  profitably in their own countries, at their own dis-  cretion. This suggestion appears to be an attract-  ive one; although in fact it might, if generally  adopted, lead to the dissolution of Unesco.
(20) Let us not forget that Unesco, as an altruistic  civic institution, not only can but is morally ob-  liged to defend universal solidarity, that solidarity  of which the United States of America, the pride of  world democracy and a shining example of freedom  and culture, gives daily proof in its acts of noble  generosity.
(21) Mr. President, the Colombian delegation re-  spectfully appeais to the delegates to this Confer-  ence to accept that part of the budget estimates  under discussion, in the form proposed by the  Executive Board and the Director-General.
(22) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Colombia and call upon the delegate of New Zea-  land.
(23) Mr. E. MARSDEN (New Zealand) - Mr. Pres-  ident, I should like to make a few remarks on the  vital question before us, remarks perhaps incom-  plete in themselves, but supplementary to those  we made during the opening debate and also to  those made by speakers from the United States of  America and the United Kingdom. I should like to  express my admiration for the way in which the  delegate of the United Kingdom has faced bluntly,  yet sympathetically, such a disagreeable task; and  without sacrificing in any way the staunch inde-  PLENARY MEETINGS  pendence shown by New Zealand on many occasions  in the past, my Government knows no good reasons  why it should not now support the studied lead given  by the United Kingdom. Our delegation is even  more attracted to this course, because of the sub-  sequent remarks of the United States delegation.
(24) It is not that I am without apprehension; I  should be particularly loth to be a party to anything  which would affect the morale of the Secretariat,  and of those who work for Unesco. During our  short stay at this Conference our delegation has  formed a very high opin.on indeed of the ability and  spirit of service of those members of the Secre-  tariat we have been privileged to meet.
(25) I appreciate also that our national contribution  to Unesco is small in relation to our total national  budget. Our annual contribution for the past two  years to the United Nations International Children's  Emergency Fund has been about six times as great  as our Government's contribution to Unesco; but  the one comes voluntarily from the people and the  other from Government funds, although in passing  I should add that our Government is in fact finding  substantial funds for Unesco work apart from this  basic contribution. Moreover, partly to do this,  the Government actually cut the allocation to our  internal government scientific services by some
10 to 15 per cent this year. I mention this, not  complainingly because it was a cut, but because of  its application to this question of morale; I fear  that there may have been a lowering of morale in  some sections of our scientific work because this  reduction was made mainly as a percentage cut in  all activities. I use that as an example of how we  should not make any cuts that we may be called on  to make in Unesco's budget.
(26) The proposal of the United Kingdom is for a  temporary stabilization, though, because of infla-  tion, it may mean a small cut in services rather  than in money. If we agree to it, I hope we may  arrange that morale, which is a far more serious  matter than finance, does not suffer. But morale  is often improved by a slight wind of adversity;  and is not high, in general, where workers do not  have to think of the most economical way of doing  their work.
(27) In his moving opening remarks, the Chair-  man of the Executive Board stated that the work of  Unesco in healing wounds caused by war, was like  the action of anti-biotics in their properties of  providing a healthy environment in which bodily  wounds may.heal themselves. But I should like to  remind him that almost every month a new anti-  biotic is found, and that the new anti-biotics are  often much cheaper, more effective and to be used  in smaller doses than those which were known be-  fore. Moreover, there is always a danger that  strains of harmful organisms may be developed  more resistant to the old anti-biotics. So it may  be with our programme. We must keep a continu-  ous watch on our methods. May it not be that such  conditions arise in relation to our programme of  - 190 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  work, and may these factors not alter its so-called  delicate balance, which the Chairman of the Exec  utive Board seems to assume, with almost god-  like authority, to be unalterably correct?
(28) Why were we not allowed at least a little time  to study the actual programme before being asked  to fix the total ceiling? We were all prepared to  give sympathetic consideration to the financial re-  quests of the Executive Board and the Director-  General; but I, for one, should have liked first to  take part in some programme studies with my  colleagues from other countries, and then, if nec-  essary, cable back to my Government and say:  What about it? It is now too late for such a pro-  cedure. Our delegation will vote for the United  Kingdom proposal as it stands, so that instructions  may be given to the Programme Commission; then,  with the help of the specialists within our delega-  tions, we shall find the best anti-bioties for the  work to be done, making sure that the doses of  those we select and the methods of application are  adequate for the job in hand.
(29) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of New  Zealand and call upon the delegate of France.
(30) Mr. Paul MONTEL (France) - (Translation  from the French) Mr. President, ladies and gent-  lemen, the French delegation is fully conscious,  despite the heavy burden laid on our country by  reconstruction and war, of its duty to Unesco, whose  aims it is still our ardent desire to further. The  very way in which the Organization's business is  managed by the Executive Board and the Secretar-  iat, under the leadership of men who have given  constant proof of nobility and generosity ‘of spirit,  is yet further confirmation of our duty. The French  delegation is aware that maintaining contributions  at the 1952 level would mean a considerable de-  crease in Unesco's activities. The French dele-  gation is aware that to approve an increase in the  budget sufficient only to allow the work of the Or-  ganization to be maintained at its. present level  would be a very serious matter; to cut short a  child's growth at the age of six means turning it  into a dwarf.
(31) Taking account of the different proposals for  cuts and savings put forward this morning and this  afternoon by various speakers, the French delega-  tion therefore proposes that the total figure for  contributions should be $19,000,000, which repre-  sents an increase of 9.2 per cent; and hopes that  the Conference will approve this figure, or one  closely approximating to it,
(32) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  France and call upon the delegate of Sweden.
(33) Mr. Ingemar DURING (Sweden) - Mr. Presi-  dent, fellow delegates, you heard earlier this  morning a declaration made by Mr. Sommerfelt on  behalf of the three Scandinavian countries. In view  II-15  of what has been said subsequently during this dis-  cussion, I should like to clarify our position.
(34) It has been said by.some distinguished dele-  gates here that those Member States which vote or  are prepared tovotefor a higher budget are great-  hearted, that they are the true friends of Unesco.  I should like respectfully to suggest that we also  have the same feeling towards Unesco. We are  loyal friends of Unesco; we disagree, not about  the aims of Unesco, but about the means by which  these aims are to be reached.
(35) In the general discussion, I stressed that  Sweden - and I think I speak also for Norway and  Denmark - whole-heartedly supports everything in  Unesco's programme which is in the nature of as-  sistance to other MemberStates - technicalassist-  ance in the broadest sense of the word; and you  will perhaps allow me to recall that there has been  a long tradition in my country of technical assist-  ance for about 30 or 40 years. We have had pro-  grammes of assistance with many countries -  Ethiopia and Iran, for example. We have, during  and after the war, voted more than $600, 000, 000  as emergency aid; and a few months ago the Swed-  ish Parliament voted $1,000,000 for technical  assistance based on bilateral agreements. The  situation is similar in Denmark and Norway. We  would raise no objection whatever to almost all the  projects of fundamental education in the Education  chapter, but we think that there are other fields in  the activities of Unesco where, perhaps, without  prejudice to the general programme, savings could  be made.
(36) I do not wish to enter now into a detailed dis-  cussion of these projects for, after all, this is -  in spite of what has been said by the distinguished  delegate of Brazil - a debate on the budget; and we  are speaking here as representatives of govern-  ments, trying to determine the contributions we  are to pay nextyear. In view of the fact that Sweden  is one of the three Member States which pay the  highest per capita contributions to Unesco, I wish  to make it quite clear that it will be extremely dif-  ficult, if- not impossible, to persuade the Swedish  Parliament to vote for an increased contribution  to Unesco next year; and I am authorized to say,  on behalf of the delegations of Norway and Den-  mark, that the situation is the same in their coun-  tries. These, briefly, are the reasons, ladies and  gentlemen, why we support the proposal of the  United Kingdom.
(37) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Sweden and call upon the delegate of Canada.
(38) Mr. Victor DORE (Canada) - Mr. President,  ladies and gentlemen, I should like first of all to  associate myself with the delegations which have  commended the Director-General and the Secre-  tariat on the careful planning and excellent pre-  sentation of the Proposed Programme and Budget  Estimates for the forthcoming financial period.  --191 -
11-15  Following the recommendations of the Sixth Ses-  sion of the General Conference in this matter, the  Director-General has greatly facilitated the peru-  sal of this document and the control which Member  States were called upon to exercise over the utili-  ties and finances of the Organization.
(39) I wish to say at the outset that the Canadian  delegation fully supports the proposal submitted to  us this morning by the distinguished delegate of the  United Kingdom. This proposal conforms exactly  with the conclusions which the Canadian Govern-  ment reached after a carefuland detailed examina-  tion of the programme and budget recommended by  the Director-General for 1953-54. In fact, the  figure of $17,400,000, on which assessments would  be based if the United Kingdom resolution is fa-  vourably received by the Conference, is the one  that the Canadian Government has reached as re-  flecting both the essential requirements of Unesco's  programme, and the amount which the Canadian  Government would be prepared to place at the dis-  posal of the Organization in the light of its total  obligations, both national and international. I  should like to emphasize that this figure is not a  purely arbitrary one, as some delegati: is, which  favour a higher budget, might be inclined to con-  clude.
(40) Canada has always supported the provision of  adequate funds to carry out Unesco's main respon-  sibilities and to further its objectives and high  purposes. As was pointed out this morning by the  Indian delegate, the sky might be the limit of our  task, which is the assessment of the needs of the  world in the fields of education, science and cul-  ture and of the rôle which Unesco might be able to  play in meeting these needs. Our task at this time,  however, is to determine the amounts of money  which governments are prepared to place at the’  disposal of Unesco for the next two years in the  light of their commitments, without renouncing in  the process the long-term objectives of the Or-  ganization.
(41) Several good reasons were produced this  morning, in particular by the distinguished dele-  gates of the United Kingdom, the United States of  America and Australia, why the figure of $17,400,000  represents the best reconciliation of the essential  needs of the Organization with the financial inten-  tions and possibilities of Member States. While  we fully endorse these reasons, I do not wish to  repeat them now. Let us not delude ourselves.  This Organization can be effective in its chosen  fields only if it has the full confidence and support  of the Member States which compose it. Delegates  here present are representing governments; but  governments themselves are, in essence, the  spokesmen of their people and, in the democratic  context, they can do only as much in any field as  the people are willing to allow them to do. The  people of the world will support Unesco, will con-  tinue to allow their governments to hold funds for  Unesco, only if they are convinced that money  PLENARY MEETINGS  spent on this Organization is well spent. This is  one of the main reasons why the Canadian Govern-  ment has always favoured a concentration of Unes-  co's efforts on a limited number of projects of  fundamental importance.
(42) From the statements whichhave been made this  morning, it would appear that some countries are  prepared to move faster than others, and are pre-  pared to lend greater financial assistance in fur-  therance of the objectives of the Organization. This  is a very encouraging development. My delegation  agrees, however, with some other distinguished  delegates, that the budget of Unesco is not the only  way, and indeed not necessarily the most important  way, through which this additional support for the  aims of the Organization can be reflected. Since  the inception of the Expanded Programme of Tech-  nical Assistance, my own Government has increased  its contribution to Unesco from year to year. In  the same manner, countries which would now ap-  pear to be prepared to devote a larger proportion  of their financial resources to the pursuit of Unes-  co's aims could well achieve this purpose by giving  greater encouragement to their National Commis-  sions, consultative bodies and non-governmental  organizations.
(43) In conclusion, Mr. President, I should like  simply to repeat that my Government would be re-  luctant to increase the level of the contributions to  the Organization for the next financial year.
(44) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Canada and call upon the delegate of Liberia.
(45) Mr. Nathaniel V. MASSAQUOI (Liberia) -  Mr. President, fellow delegates, I am reluctantly  taking the floor, because I may say I am flabber-  gasted. I do not think that Liberia alone is sur-  prised. As I look around I see disappointed faces,  frustrated looks. Just seven years ago, at the
1945 Conference in London, the United States dele-  gate, Mr. Archibald McLeish, and the Prime Min-  ister of the United Kingdom, Mr. Attlee, aroused  the enthusiasm of the world, gave hope to the  under-developed and young nations by declaring  "Since wars begin in the minds of men, it is in the  minds of men that the defences of peace must be  constructed", At that time there were only 35  Member States; today we have 68 - almost double  that number. And there are those who today, for  the sake of a difference of about a million and a  half dollars, are attempting to put a stop to such a  world-wide effort as is Unesco's. Where are those  who, seven years ago, aroused the world, out of  the ruins and devastation of World War II, giving  us hope, . courage and faith? Today these very  nations who centuries ago gave to the world Magna  Carta and the Bill of Rights, and declared the four  freedoms in mid-Atlantic, for the sake of a mil-  lion and a half dollars are about to put an end to  what might yet be the only saviour of mankind.
(46) Gentlemen, I am appealing to you. There is  - 192 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  no need to take your vote if these very nations,  these very men, these very people, who for cen-  turies have inspired the world and given us hope,  are no longer willing to take the lead. If they have  become so pragmatic that they cannot see beyond  today, how do they expect us to follow their leader-  ship?
(47) This is a budget, but a budget for what? For  the building of the defences of peace, in order that  the generations of the worldshall not be frustrated.  That is the idea. If you take away that idealism,  ladies and gentlemen, we might as well close down  and go back home. Some of us come thousands of  miles from our homes, not because we could not  do something for ourselves, but because we have  been inspired. We have faith in that declaration  made in London in 1945. What has happened? What  has caused the change? There is a reason for it.  And that reason has been given - that we must  build up our defences in the might of men, not in  the minds of men! At this time, when the world is  definitely sure of the futility of our wars to end  wars, we prefer to transfer our contributions from  constructing the defences of peace in the minds of  men to building up the might of men! Pragmatism!
(48) Liberia is a small country, but we are willing  to double our contribution if need be. That is all  we can do. I believe there are many nations here  who have come only because they have been in-  spired. The very nations which have inspired us -  some of which have declared the Monroe Doctrine  for the protection of the republics of Latin Ameri-  ca, have helped to create the Pan-American Union  and are spending millions - are today stumbling  and doubting whether they should spend a million  and a half. Ladies and gentlemen, I am flabber-  gasted. I appeal to your consciences to stand by  this budget, or the only hope of this generation will  be lost.
(49) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Liberia and now call upon the delegate of the Phil-  ippines.
(50) Mrs. Geronima T. PECSON (Philippines) -  Mr. President, honourable delegates, there are  moments when one is so overwhelmed with emotion  that silence is much better than words. I find my-  self in that situation at this very moment, after  having listened to both sides of the argument: one  side calling for caution in voting for the budget  proposals of the Executive Board and the Secre-  tariat, and the other appealing for approval in the  name of humanity, which Unesco has pledged to  lift from misery - an appeal that has reached the  heart so deeply.
(51) I liked very much the way in which the very  distinguished delegate of Australiabeganhis speech  this morning; he said he was not good in the soft  language of diplomacy, and therefore he was going  to be quite blunt. He expressed one of my most se-  rious handicaps. This noon our delegation met and  I-15  considered the question under discussion as seri-  ously as it could; now that I have to speak on their  behalf, I realize that my handicap is still greater  than that of the esteemed delegate of Australia -  to be aware that the audience is composed of the  most distinguished delegates of the world and, what  is still worse for me, that it is a world essentially  of men. As a matter of fact I hear that my favour-  ite project on the access of women to education is  in danger of being brought down to priority B. 1.  That has added very much to my diffidence, ladies  and gentlemen, in taking the floor in the name of  the Philippines, which I have the great honour to  represent.
(52) As I listened to your brilliant orations today,  I wondered how many of you have lived in areas  where the struggle for existence, the struggle for  the recognition of the dignity of the human being,  and the struggle against exploitation of man by  man, are real and alive. How many of you have  seen the struggle of people who have been in ig-  norance for years, which would enable you to re-  ,alize that the work of Unesco involves not only  education, science and culture, not only peace,  but also human suffering, hopes, desires, frustra-  tion, the desire to live, the will to live, the will to  defend one's rights, the will to defend those great  principles which the gentleman from Liberia has  just recalled to us?
(53) As I listened carefully to your arguments,  many things came to my very much depressed  mind. What would have happened, I said to myself,  if Magna Carta had never been signed; or if there  had been no French Revolution? What would have  happened to the Americas if the sovereigns of  Castille and Aragon had not taken a decision for  the voyage of Columbus, or if Columbus had not  had the courage to venture on unknown seas in
1492? What would we be today if in 1776 the  Declaration of Independence had not been made in  Philadelphia, or if slavery had not been abolished  by Abraham Lincoln? What would have happened  to the Philippines if, in 1519, Charles I of Spain  had not shown the determination and the vision to  send Magellan through unchartered seas - which  led to the discovery of what we now call the Philip-  pines? What of democracy today in the Philippines  if we had not enjoyed the generosity of the Ameri-  can people who schooled us in the ways of demo-  cracy and peace? And what would have happened  in the Second World War if the Filipino people had  not made the decisive and historic stands at Cor-  regidor and Bataan which helped to save democracy  for the world? The price paid by mankind for these  historic landmarks in the march of man to pro-  gress and freedom is incalculable. We have a  chance now to add another historic landmark at  comparatively negligible cost. Yet, what are  we doing? We are locked in arguments which  reflect sadly an inaccurate assessment of the  importance and urgency of Unesco's programme  for education, science and culture in a world so  -193 -   II-15  confused that it is on the brink of destruction.
(54) Once upon a time the little Philippines, which  you honoured with the election of one of her citi-  zens to the Executive Board in 1950, was nothing  but a group of islands inhabited by people too poor  to be articulate; but in 1901 the great American  people, with their ideals of democracy, established  a programme of collaboration in education, science  and culture, which, in essence, was what Unesco  is now doing at the international level. That year  we began a concerted effort to educate the minds  and the hearts of our people and, ever since our  parents sampled the blessings of knowledge, it has  been impossible to accommodate all the applicants  for admission to our schools. America gave us  the long view of peace, freedom, democracy and  human rights so well that when World War II broke  out we fought with all our might, not counting the  cost. We gave up the flower of our youth. We  never paused even for one moment to calculate our  sacrifice in lives, in the destruction of our homes,  our industries and our agriculture. All this we did  willingly because we had learnt the full meaning of  the principles at stake.
(55) Our experience shows what Unesco can give  to the world. The Philippine delegation fervently  appeals for your support of the budget under con-  sideration. I urge you to open your hearts and  your minds to the cries of the people who are beg-  ging for release from misery, from life-long sen-  tence to ignorance, ill-health, poverty and resent-  ment.
(56) As a result of the war, the Filipino people are  poor. We have Mutual Security Agency and tech-  nical assistance projects. We are still in the stage  of reconstruction. We are fighting against enorm-  ous odds for economic stability. With Unesco's  assistance, we have located the weak points in our  educational system, and are well on the way to  correcting them. In spite of our difficulties, how-  ever, we have paid religiously our share of Unes-  co's budget, for our experience in war and peace  has taught us the importance of preparedness in  attending to the building of peace. If the poor Phil-  ippines, in the face of economic insufficiency,  could afford to pay her share, and is willing to  make further sacrifices for Unesco, how could  those who are better situated or who did not, per-  haps, suffer from war, or who are economically  able, have the heart to refuse to provide adequate  funds for our common efforts?
(57) Allof you expressed satisfaetion at the begin-  ning of the session over the achievements of Unesco  so far. You recognized that its whole work is  directed to the uplifting of two-thirds of the world's  population. Is two-thirds of the world's population  not worth working and sacrificing for? If we cut  down the budget now, would it not mean that we are  unwilling to extend the full assistance needed for  their ills? This assistance, moreover, is not for  their benefit alone, but for the whole world. When  they gain literacy and prosperity, will this not be  PLENARY MEETINGS  for the good of all, and will not democracy be  strengthened? When they attain economic inde-  pendence, will not the wealth of nations increase  accordingly? Fellow delegates, you know the an-  swers, and you are aware of the gravity of the  situation, so I hope and I pray that your response  will be consistent with the pledges and commenda-  tions expressed emphatically at the outset of this  session of the General Conference.
(58) We envision a world community of intelligent  citizens well versed in their rights and duties and  technical knowledge, and provided with equal op-  portunities for work. Unesco has the formula for  it. Our avowed purpose is to develop man's con-  science against injustice; if that is so, and we  want it to be so, then let it be universal. Only  through Unesco can we achieve this purpose. We  agreed we should not set a price for peace, and  now we argue bitterly over the budget. Allow me,  please, to associate myself with Mr. Malik and  invite all of us to examine our conscience. I won-  der what the answer will be.
(59) The young people of all nations are crying for  our attention. The adults of all nations who have  not had a chance to go to school are in need of us.  The Philippine delegation believes that the proposed  programme is not perfect. We are of the opinion  that the programme should have been considered  before the budget, as was proposed by the Head of  the American delegation, On the other hand, we are  convinced that the budget presented to us has been  prepared in accordance with resolutions that were  approved at the last session. Although we respect-  fully differ with those who are against increasing  the budget for the next two years, we appreciate  their frankness. However, we shall continue to  urge them to reconsider their position, as its re-  percussion on the life of our Organization is vital.
(60) We appreciate the wisdom of creating a work-  ing party to arrange priorities for the years 1955-
1956. Now is the time to state the amount we are  willing to spend, in order to forestall a crisis like  the one we are facing today. Meantime the Philip-  pine delegation would like to emphasize that, as we  live in an area where the need for building peace  is urgent, where pressure against freedom is fe-  rocious and constant, where the struggle for sur-  vival is mortal, we understood fully and keenly  shared the feelings of our fellow delegates who  pleaded the cause of Unesco before this distin-  guished assembly.
(61) It is the great misfortune of the Philippine  delegation to be headed by a woman; but perhaps  it is better so, because I can speak to you not only  as head of the delegation of the Philippines, not  only as one who perhaps has seen more of misery  than any of you, but also as a wife, as a mother  and as a grandmother. Because women suffer and  enter the gates of death in order to bring forth new  life, they suffer most from war. As a woman I  know what it means to lose a husband or a son, or  the honour of a daughter due to war. I experienced  - 194 -   PLENARY.MEETINGS,  the anguish of a family scurrying through mountains  and valleys days and nights on end, seeking safety  from attacks from the land, sea and air. I have  gone through-four years of unbelievable privation  and war work - the common sacrifice of millions -  so that the priceless boons that make life worth  living may be saved for future generations. I have  felt the sorrow and despair of thousands of women  whose sons or husbands - valiant, proud, un-  flinching in their loyalty to country and God - were  killed, or forever incapacitated! I have worked in  convalescent homes, coaxing hope, love and the  desire to live back into the hearts of ‘despondent  war victims. I beg you, Sirs, to save our children  from insecurity; save our husbands, save us women  from the torture of anxiety. To do so you must  provide Unesco with adequate funds.
(62) As a member of the Senate in my country, I  am aware of the urgency of international collabora-  tion to save peace. In the race between the forces  that destroy peace and those that nurture it, time  is vital. If we have what it takes, which I believe  we have, let us not go back on our responsibilities..  Let us see to it that the disproportion between pro-  visions for armaments and those for Unesco's pro-  gramme for constructing "the defences of peace in  the minds of men" is corrected. We must streng-  then Unesco. The test of our sincerity is action.  The wisdom of our decision today will be tested by  time. The Director-General once said: "Tomor-  row is the child of today". How true this is! It is  also true that tomorrow's welfare or despair de-  pends on how much support we give Unesco today.  The opportunity to add another landmark in the  long march of humanity towards the good life is  before you.
(63) The PRESIDENT - Ladies and gentlemen, by  your acclamations you have shown that it is the  good fortune of the Philippines to have a woman as  leader of its delegation. I am sure I am expres-  sing the feelings of all of us here when I say that  her leadership of the Philippines delegation does  honour to this Conference. I call upon the dele-  gate of the German Federal Republic.
(64) Mr. Rudolf SALAT (German Federal Re-  public) - (Translation from the French) Mr. Pre-  sident, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the  German delegation, I venture to make a very mo-  dest contribution to this debate, so vital for the  future of our beloved Unesco.
(65) To return to the remarks made by the United  States delegate this morning, when he criticized,  with some justice, our methods of procedure (i.e.  discussing the budget before we have even seen the  programme), I know that it is too late to change  this procedure now, but the German delegation  does not consider it very wise to discuss an over-  all sum, before examining the costs of the pro-  gramme item by item, administration, publica-  tions, ete. I would therefore like to submit a for-  II-15  mal proposal to the effect that some competent  organ, such as the Administrative Commission or  any other body you may select, be instructed to  elaborate during the course of this Conference a  new method of procedure whereby the very large  problem of Unesco's programme and budget may  in future be examined in a more rational way.
(66) This year we have adhered to the same me-  thods as last year, and are therefore obliged to  fix the budget ceiling now. The sole concern of the  German delegation is that the practical programme  of the Organization should never be cut. Even  when we make a cut of $10 we are embarking on a  course whose consequences cannot be foreseen.  All we ask, therefore, is that we should agree on  a sum such as to enable the Director-General at  least to maintain activities at the present level, if  they cannot be expanded.
(67) The honourable delegate of the United King-  dom told us that we should keep to last year's  figure: $8,700,000; but he added that this would  be the sum on which our contributions would be  based. If I have understood him right - I may have  made a mistake - the Director-General said that  he actually had at his disposal last year the sum of  $8,700,000. That was the actual budget, since the  deficit on contributions was made good from other  sources. This year, unfortunately, there are no  such other sources. Hence, since the German de-  legation adheres to the principle of maintaining the  programme as it stands, we have to call on every-  one to supplement those $8, 700, 000 by the amount  necessary to ensure that the sum of $8,700,000  may actually be available for spending. I am no  mathematician, but this would mean roughly:  I think, an extra $800,000 a year. A ‘total of  $9,500, 000 a year gives us a total of $19, 000, 000  for the two years; or precisely the sum mentioned  by the honourable delegate of France a few mo-  ments ago.
(68) But there is one observation I should like to  make in this connexion. The principle of covering  the deficit resulting from certain countries' failure  to pay their contributions by calling on other coun-  tries to contribute’ more is not a sound one. I  understand very well that there is no reason why  a country such as the United States of America,  which already contributes one-third of our budget,  should also cover the contribution of other coun-  tries unable or unwilling to pay. I wish to make a  formal proposal to the effect that this Conference  should investigate means for covering the deficit  left by non-payment of contributions other than by  calling on countries which already pay their own  quota regularly. But this too applies only to next  year - it is too late for this year - and I therefore  revert to my previous proposal, which is that the  Director-General should be granted a budget cei-  ling of $19,000, 000 for the two years.
(69) When I say this, I must admit that it is, for  Germany, a very heavy sacrifice to make. It is  always unpleasant, before a General Assembly, to  - 195 -   IT-15  speak of what one has done oneself, and I must  apologize for doing so here; otherwise you might  well say that it is very easy for a country to make  proposals which other countries will finally have  the responsibility of carrying out. From the point  of view of contributions, we come fourth on the  list. Our contribution, which was 3.5 per cent  last year, has been increased by one point; even  if last year's budget figure is maintained, this  means that Germany will have to pay $100, 000  more, and yesterday it was my duty and my plea-  sure to tell the Committee on Contributions that  we would pay this sum in full. We shall therefore  probably have to pay $150,000 more. In addition,  our Government gives our National Commission the  money it needs, amounting to more than $25, 000  a year. It is not necessary for me to describe to  you the situation in Germany; suffice it to remind  you that we have 10 million refugees, that thou-  sands of schools and university establishments  have not yet been rebuilt, and that we cannotre-  build them for lack of funds. Nevertheless, I be-  lieve - as I shall repeat in a few moments - that  it is our duty to make a sacrifice on behalf of other  countries whose position is perhaps even more  difficult than our own.
(70) If I may be allowed to raise a second point, I  think the suggestion made by the distinguished de-  legate of the United States of America an extreme-  ly interesting one. His suggestion is that we  should be asked, next year, to indicate not only  what we are contributing towards the central orga-  nization of Unesco, but also to submit figures  showing what each of our countries is doing for  Unesco on a national basis. For, without an active  National Commission disposing of adequate funds,  all Unesco's work must necessarily remain purely  theoretical. I therefore think that, in order to be  just to all countries, we should, each of us, next  year, give a sincere and frank account of our con-  tribution to Unesco's work both nationally and in-  ternationally.
(71) We pay, in addition, 20 per cent of the run-  ning costs of the three Institutes established by  Unesco in Germany. We are members of the  Committee for the establishment of a European  Centre for Nuclear Research. All this represents  thousands of dollars' worth of foreign currency of  which in Germany we are extremely short; but we  think it our duty to make this contribution. We  have no demands to make of Unesco on our own  account - I might even add that we are one of the  few countries not represented on the Unesco Sec-  retariat - but we have been through a great ex-  perience; our country, five years ago, was in dire  distress, and it was thanks to all of you that we  were able to begin the work of reconstruction.  Each of your countries came generously to our  aid - some, indeed, giving very large amounts.  Our universities, schools, and cultural life would  not be flourishing today but for the aid received  from international governmental organizations,  PLENARY MEETINGS  including Unesco. It is because of our own ex-  perience of the value of foreign aid that we wish to  make a very modest contribution to enable other  younger, less privileged countries to enjoy the  same experience. And it is for this reason that  Germany is willing to pay its part of the sum of
19 millions which France has proposed; it is for  this reason also that I presume to appeal to you  all to help to give the younger, less privileged  countries the experience of international aid.
(72) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of the  German Federal Republic and now call upon the  delegate of Japan.
(73) Mr. Tamon MAEDA (Japan) - The Japanese  delegation confesses that it feels quite puzzled in  this heated debate on the very important subject of  the Proposed Programme and Budget Estimates.  When we came to Paris to attend this session of  the Conference, we were instructed by our Govern-  ment to support a budget ceiling which would en-  able Unesco to carry out the activities proposed  by the Director-General and the Executive Board.  In view of the present circumstances, which make  it difficult to reach a unanimous decision on this,  we now submit as a compromise a budget limited  to priorities A.1 and B. 1.
(74) I quite sympathize with the stands taken by  the United Kingdom and the United States of Ame-  rica in proposing to curtail projects in the light of  the present situation. Many countries may feel  very keen about their responsibilities: as the  French say, ''noblesse oblige". However, I am  apprehensive about curtailing the projects to such  a drastic extent, whilst we are all agreed thatthe  activities of Unesco could be reduced to the 1951  level. For this reason I propose, as a tentative  ceiling, a figure which will enable Unesco to carry  out its task, at least at the present level. In this  respect we associate ourselves with the proposal  submitted by the honourable delegate of the Neth-  erlands. Our proposal is as follows:  $19, 055, 000 assessment level.  $19,578, 000 gross budget level.  $17, 825, 000 spending budget level.
(75) In the course of time, when we have the op-  portunity of discussing the various aspects of  the problem, there may be some way in which we  can compress our expenditure to satisfy the Uni-  ted Kingdom and the United States of America, and  reach some reasonable solution. For the present,  I submit this budget limited to priorities A.1 and  BL
(76) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Japan and call upon the delegate of Lebanon.
(77) Mr. Charles DAOUD AMMOUN (Lebanon) -  (Translation from the French) Mr. President,  fellow delegates, there is at least one point on  which all the speakers from this platform have  - 196 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  agreed: that it must be possible for the aims of  Unesco to be attained, and for this purpose none  will hesitate to incur the necessary expenditure  subject to the limitations of national financial re-  sources.
(78) What did the United Kingdom delegate say  this morning, in an eloquent speech which, like  that of Mr. Sargeant, I found profoundly moving?  He told us that his country was not yet sufficiently  interested in Unesco, that public opinion was not  prepared to accept an increase of expenditure. I  have not yet the text of his speech in my hands,  but I think I am right in saying that this was his  explanation of why it would be difficult to ask his  Parliament to increase his country's contribution.  We already knew this; we knew of those difficul-  ties, but we knew also that the United Kingdom has  never been appealed to in vain for any cause con-  tributing to the expansion of education, science  and culture; and we knew that his country had  given abundant proof, both in the past and in the  present, of its devotion to spiritual values, and  that it justly prides itself on being in the forefront  of civilization and culture.
(79) And what did Mr. Sargeant, Head of the Uni-  ted States delegation, say? He suggested that we  should compensate for any cuts we were forced to  make in the budget of our own Organization by  drawing on the Technical Assistance budget. And  he indicated that certain powers - of which I think  the United States of America is still the most gen-  erous - might contribute very lavishly to this  Technical Assistance fund.
(80) The delegate of Norway said that, while he  fully supported Unesco's ideals, he had the im-  pression that the Organization's funds were not  always spent sufficiently carefully. The delegates  of Australia, Sweden and New Zealand all said the  same thing, adding that they were contributing  either to UNICEF or to science foundations sums  considerably higher than their contribution to  Unesco.
(81) Certain observations which were made re-  garding the core of the problem particularly struck  me; I must apologize for taking one at random.  I would like to state, straight away, that I agree  with the Australian delegate, and I propose to  speak with the same frankness as he did; I agree  with him that certain savings could be made. I  am not sure, for example, that it was advisable  for us to move to Rue Galilée, I was inclined, in  particular, to criticize that hall for its lack of ad-  joining corridors, which at first made personal  contacts impossible; I also criticized it because,  having no windows, it was darker than the present  hall, and so far as the Lebanese delegation was  concerned, it had the further disadvantage of plac-  ing us opposite a notice above a door, bearing a  very discouraging message on which our eyes  were bound to fall whenever we raised our heads:  "No Way Out". In this discussion we shall most  certainly try to find a way out.  II-15
(82) You are therefore all agreed as to the im-  portance of Unesco's work. I myself am particu-  larly struck by a few very simple considerations,  which have nothing to do with finance, and which  I propose to put before you. I should like first to  define the attitude of our country and of the Arab  countries of the Middle East. We should all like  to see the budget ceiling fixed at the highest pos-  sible figure; but there are two points having a  bearing on the future of our Organization, and  also on common sense and justice, that deserve  consideration.
(83) The first point is that all criticisms and re-  servations on the budget have come from the more  developed countries, which have worked hardest  in the cause of culture in all its forms - science,  technology and literature - and in whose budgets  every year large sums are allocated for education;  countries the ramifications of whose culture ex-  tend far and wide throughout the world. This is  surely cause not perhaps for anxiety but certainly  for reflection. Can it be that Unesco's work for  the promotion of education, science or culture in  the less developed countries is causing anxiety to  countries more advanced in this respect? It is  our duty in Unesco to ask ourselves this question,  and it is our duty, too, to appeal to these countries  to use every possible means of enlisting the sup-  port of their people for our lofty mission.
(84) There is also another aspect of the same  phenomenon which deserves attention; it is those  countries which pay the highest contribution to  Unesco which have voiced the most criticisms. I  know that their spirit of international co-operation,  like ours, is strong enough to persuade them to  bow to the decisions of our Conference, which is  supranational in character; but I think that here  again, before taking any decision, it is our duty to  try to reconcile the divergent points of view, and  to ask these countries to say frankly what econo-  mies and what changes they would like to see made  to Unesco's programme, and what policy adopted.  The Lebanese delegation, like all the Arab delega-  tions, would be loth to vote, on the budget ques-  tion, against the United States of America and the  United Kingdom, who make so large a contribution  to Unesco's funds. The Lebanese delegation is of  the opinion that every effort should be made to re-  concile the various points of view and so avoid  such a situation.
(85) Mr. Sargeant, the Head of the United States  delegation, spoke this morning of the "hard choice.  Experience teaches us indeed that we have to  choose, in life, not between a good course and a  bad - that would be much too simple - but between  two bad courses or two good ones, which is always  hard.
(86) The fact is, gentlemen, that the problem is  not merely one of figures, important though they  are - but of a conflict of ideas and plans. Before  making the choice between these policies, I think  it is essential for the future of the Organization -  = 197 -   II-15  I do not say for the salvation of the Organization,  but most certainly for its future - and for the pro-  motion of that spirit of international co-operation  we all have so much at heart, that we should try  to reach a compromise based not necessarily on  bargaining but on real concern for the ideals we  all cherish.
(87) The present discussion on the programme  gives us an opportunity for making this choice;  which brings us back to a point which is not before  us today, i.e. whether the programme should be  discussed before the budget or vice-versa. To  those countries which, though they have criticized  Unesco's work, many of us might well take as an  example for their work for education, science and  culture; to those countries like Sweden, whose  friendship for Unesco is every bit as sincere as  ours, I would like to say: "Vote for the budget  with us now, and you will have an opportunity to  press your point of view later during the discus-  sion on the programme. You will be able, item by  item, to state the policy, the order of priorities  and the economies you advocate. I told the Aus-  tralian delegate earlier that there was one point  on which we could agree with him. Since we are  not obliged to spend the whole of the budget we  approve, these cuts might be deducted from your  next year's contributions. In this way we could  make a kind of unanimous declaration of confi-  dence in the Conference, without however com-  mitting ourselves, so that we could continue acti-  vities which, as you advanced countries will under-  stand, the under-developed countries consider of  the greatest importance."
(88) In conclusion, the Lebanese delegation would  like to endorse all the tributes paid to the Direc-  tor-General and the Secretariat for their work in  drawing up this budget. I find it difficult, Mr.  Director-General, to add anything to what has  already been said; the point which I personally  find most striking is your faith. The time when  faith moved mountains is past, but if you succeed  in the more practical task of uniting the 65 States  represented in this hall in common action, you  will have accomplished something at least equally  difficult.
(89) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Lebanon and call upon the delegate of the Union of  South Africa.
(90) Mr.H. T. ANDREWS (Union of South Africa) -  Mr. Presidem, fellow delegates, this debate has  gone on all day, and a tremendous amount of  ground has been covered. There will be little  reason for the South African delegation, therefore,  to detain its fellow delegates for more than a few  minutes. But, as the Director-General said in  his very able address, upon which we have all  complimented him, there is a responsibility upon  each one of us here to take our stand in relation  to the financies of our Organization.  PLENARY MEETINGS
(91) It was my privilege, in the general debate,  to refer to our proposed budget, and therefore it  will be no surprise to you when I say very briefly  that the South African delegation arises today to  support the proposal put forward so courageously  and clearly by the delegate of the United Kingdom  and supported on so high a level by the United  States delegation. They have covered the ground  so ably and cogently that it would be mere repeti-  tion on my part to attempt to support the line they  took.
(92) I should like, however to stress a point  made very precisely by the United Kingdom dele-  gation, with which we are in full agreement; those  of us who have been Member States and in good  standing all these years are obliged by the very  facts and realities of financial life to take into  account our obligations as compared with our re-  sources, and if we look beyond Unesco, it is ob-  vious that in the multiplicity of international orga-  nizations that exist - including the United Nations  itself and its many Agencies - there is a tremen-  dous drain on our national resources. When a  Ministry of Education has to assess its own na-  tional budget, it has first to get over that parti-  cular obstacle of international obligations with its  Treasury. We know that Treasuries have big  hearts; but, unfortunately they often have bigger  heads, and when a Ministry of Education pleads for  increased funds for this, that or the other specia-  lized organization, we find ourselves in an extre-  mely difficult position. Moreover, as our Austra-  lian colleague pointed out, there are many activities  within our national frontiers that are akin to the  activities of Unesco itself. In the effort to make  ends meet, sacrifices have often to be made in our  own Ministry budgets.
(93) My Government therefore begs that, as far  as we possibly can, we should maintain the budget  of Unesco for 1953 and 1954 at its present level.  I should like only to add that my delegation, with  those who are taking the same line, yields to no  other delegation in the pursuit of the ideals of the  Organization. In a practical way, however - per-  haps in a too prosaic way - we have to measure  our resources with our means. This is a budget  debate. In my opinion we could make real pro-  gress in the two years ahead with the means that  would be placed at our disposal if we maintained  the 1952 level. As I believe the Norwegian dele-  gate said some days ago, we are not building for  today or tomorrow, but for a long time ahead.  The delegations which are supporting the proposal  of the United Kingdom have that object in mind.  We yield to none in that respect. If we are limi-  ted to a budget as it was assessed in 1952, there  will be splendid work to be done by this Organiza-  tion in the years ahead.
(94) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of the  Union of South Africa and I call upon the delegate  of Turkey.  - 198 -   PLENARY MEETINGS
(95) Mr. Bedrettin TUNCEL (Turkey) = (Transla-  tion from the French) Mr. President, I beg, on  behalf of the Turkish delegation, to put before this  meeting a few remarks for which I think the dis-  cussion of the budget ceiling proposed by the Exe-  cutive Board and the Director-General calls.
(96) I would remind you that the chief element in  the composition of Unesco is its Member States,  and that Unesco's objectives can be attained only  in so far as the Organization's programme is im-  plemented by the Member States themselves with  their national resources. Economically under-  developed countries reap the benefit of the Tech-  nical Assistance programme; and in this connexion  it should be stressed that work on specialized pro-  blems is better carried out by the competent in-  ternational governmental and non-governmental  organizations, first and foremost among which are  those either set up or sponsored by Unesco. Unesco  could very usefully enlist the support of these org-  anizations for the implementation of its programme.
(97) The best means of executing Unesco's pro-  gramme would, in our view, be to concentrate on  certain important problems. This does not mean  that Unesco's work has to be stabilized, or any  part of it discontinued; and we therefore support  the suggestion that the important question of pri-  orities should be carefully reviewed.
(98) The financial position of the majority of  Member States precludes any increase in their  contribution to Unesco. This applies also to our  country. I would like to emphasize, moreover,  that if the rate of contributions were to be raised,  there would be a danger of more Member States  defaulting which, in our view, would be seriously  detrimental to Unesco's work.
(99) For these reasons, we support the clear-cut  proposals put forward by the United Kingdom and  the United States delegations.
(100) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Turkey and call upon the delegate of Italy.
(101) Mr. Bartolomeo MIGONE (Italy) - (Transla-  tion from the French) Mr. President, ladies and  gentlemen, the Italian delegation shares the view  that it would be better to discuss the budget after  the programme. The one depends upon the other;  the programme is the end, the budget the means.  This should be borne in mind in the future, al-  though it seems that we have at present to adopt  the reverse procedure.
(102) As many of us have pointed out, we all have  a Treasury; it is perhaps a necessary evil; but  we have also - fortunately - public opinion and  parliaments. We have therefore to consider not  only the reproaches of our financial authorities,  to which we have perhaps become hardened, but al-  so Unesco's reputation with the general public in  our respective countries. We are passing through  difficult times, as we all know, and Unesco cannot  but feel the repercussions, noble though the aims
11-15  it is pursuing undoubtedly are. It is therefore up  to us not to compromise Unesco's popularity by  approving a budget out of tune with the general  world situation. Many of us have had the sobering  experience of seeing our own personal incomes  reduced or even abolished altogether. Have we  given up life on that account? Of course not. But  it has, unfortunately, forced us to cut down our  standard of living, and it would only be reasonable,  in the Italian delegation's view, to proceed like-  wise in the case of Unesco, distinguishing between  essentials and non-essentials. For I am prepared  to admit, as the Executive Board pointed out, that  an organization, like an individual, must go for-  ward. Let us therefore make every effort not to  amputate the programme; but let us, at the same  time, avoid doing what many of us would regard as  preposterous in view of the definite instructions  we have received from our governments to curtail  all expenditure ruthlessly. The Executive Board,  the Secretariat and the General Conference might  perhaps investigate the possibility of cutting down  expenses in the purely administrative sphere, in  the budget - the family, domestic budget - of  Unesco. Surprisingly encouraging results might  perhaps be achieved if the situation were to be re-  viewed from this point of view.
(103) The Italian delegation wishes to reaffirm its  complete loyalty to Unesco, and to assure the  Organization that if Italy, like many other coun-  tries, regards the budget proposed by the Execu-  tive Board as too high - not in itself but in propor-  tion to our present resources - this does not imply  any lack of confidence in Unesco. Nor does Italy  consider that the work of the Organization should  be halted. We would be prepared to consider a  slightly higher budget provided that it remained  within limits acceptable to all. An increase based  on the lowest figure proposed in this debate would  satisfy both those who advocate economy and those  who wish Unesco to pursue the work we all have  so much at heart.
(104) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Italy and call upon the delegate of Mexico.
(105) Mr. José LELO de LARREA (Mexico) -  (Translation from the Spanish) The Mexican dele-  gation has decided to take part in this debate be-  cause it considers the problems under discussion  worthy of special consideration. May I begin by  paying warm tribute to the Chairman of the Execu-  tive Board, the Director-General and the Secreta-  riat for the loyalty and efficiency that they have  brought to the task of implementing the resolu-  tions of the last Conference requiring them to  draw up a draft programme and budget estimates  to cover the years 1953-54, which are submitted  for discussion, consideration and decision by the  present meeting.
(106) The Mexican delegation listened with great  interest to the reports presented to this Assembly  = 199 -   II-15  by the Chairman of the Budget Committee and the  Administrative Commission. After hearing these  reports, my delegation realized the magnitude of  the problems we are facing and of our own respon-  sibility for finding a solution.
(107) My delegation, at the same time, gathered  from this debate, for all its seemingly conflicting  character, the conviction that the delegations as a  whole support the principle of Unesco, since  whilst not underestimating the ardours of the  Organization's mission in the field of international  understanding, they have the greatest faith in its  power to contribute tothe consolidation of interna-  tional peace by using Education, Science and Cul-  ture in the interests of universal security based  on freedom, justice and democracy.
(108) Indeed, if we attempt to sum up the two  trends brought to light by the discussions up to  now, we find that we have, on the one hand, those  delegations which are infavour of keeping the bud-  get figure for 1953 and 1954 at the 1952 level; and,  on the other, those which are in favour of a budget  figure representing a minimum compatible with  the efficient discharge of Unesco's mission - the  figures were given both by the Director-General  and by the Swiss delegation.
(109) These two trends in fact represent two dif-  ferent views of Unesco, or rather, two distinct  conceptions of its work. Leaving aside a whole  series of secondary arguments, we are left with  facts and realities, completely dominated by the  pressing problem of peace. For peace, ladies and  gentlemen, is no empty word. Peace, for Unesco,  is the foundation and the aim of all its work. If  we deliberately impair the efforts being made by  our Organization in the cause of peace, we shall  be playing a part consonantneither with the dignity  of this General Conference nor with the faith  placed by the peoples of the world in our loyal and  effective work. Great stress has been laid, in the  course of this debate, on the heavy financial sac-  rifices the nations are making in the cause of col-  lective security. We all know the sums govern-  ments are spending on the attainment of collective  security; but may it not be said that the work en-  trusted to Unesco in fact forms part, a very im-  portant part, of the general world plan for collec-  tive security? How often have we heard the most  responsible contemporary statesmen declare that  peace is not won by military prowess alone! The  armies of freedom and the soldiers of democracy  do not confine themselves necessarily to the des-  tructive effects of arms. How often, in the same  circumstances, have we heard it said that the tea-  cher, too, is a warrior for peace, the scientist a  deliverer and that, in a word, culture, with the  faith it arouses, the sense of responsibility it en-  genders and the human sentiments it nurtures, is  the stoutest bulwark against despotism and the  strongest force against slavery.
(110) From Unesco's point of view, collective sec-  urity is synonymous with the security of the indivi-  PLENARY MEETINGS  dual. There can be no dissociation of the problem;  nor can the various aspects of the same phenomenon  be separated into watertight compartments.
(111) If, then, we examine the difference be-  tween the budget estimates submitted by the Exe-  cutive Board and the Director-General, based on  the directives of the last General Conference, and  the budget figure now being proposed by the United  Kingdom delegation and supported by the United  States of America and other countries, it seems  to us clear that the former figure is a bare mini-  mum compatible with the expansion and develop-  ment of the work entrusted to the Organization.  Without indulging in profitless idealism or utopia-  nism, what the Executive Board is proposing is an  expansion of the Unesco programme which will, it  is true, entail sacrifices from all Member States  alike in order to cover the 1953-1954 budget esti-  mates; but those sacrifices will be offset by the  increased benefits conferred by the work of the  Organization. It is obvious that no country can re-  main unaffected by economic difficulties of the  kind at present facing the governments of the  Member States of our Organization. As regards  the proportion of Member States' contributions to  Unesco, this is calculated on the principle of avoi-  ding discrimination against any individual country.  The rate of contribution is in fact based on each  country's national wealth, per capita income, trade  balance, currency convertibility and ability to pay.  This means that the rate of contribution is based  on the economic prosperity of each country, and  that, subject to these conditions, the financial con-  tribution made and the responsibility shouldered  is equal for every country.
(112) The Mexican delegation agrees with the  views expressed by the Swiss delegation as re-  gards the figures proposed for the 1953 and 1954  budget estimates. A decision in this sense would  enable us to remain faithful to the moral pledge we  made when we signed the Unesco Constitution with  a view to contributing to the consolidation of col-  lective security - of a state in which education,  science and culture would be neither restricted  nor brought to a standstill. In conclusion, my de-  legation urges strongly that the decision finally  adopted on this problem should not be suchas to  betray either our confidence or the confidence of  those communities which are looking to us to in-  tensify our work for peace, which constitutes the  essential task of our Organization.
(113) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Mexico and now call upon the delegate of Burma.
(114) U BA GYAN (Union of Burma) - Mr. Presi-  dent and fellow delegates, on behalf of the Union  of Burma and of the Burma delegation, I wish to  express my support of the provisions made by the  Director-General and the Executive Board. The  reasons for my support are these.
(115) We are all working for the progress of a  - 200 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  united Unesco. Do we have faith in this? If we  really have faith, and if we really believe that by  promoting science, education and culture we may  be able to stop wars, or at least delay war, why  should not we give our full support for the funds ne-  cessary for the work of Unesco? If we feel that  there is any wastage, or if there is any possibility  -of curtailing expenses incurred by the Secretariat,  we might examine the situation. But if it is neces-  sary to spend, it will be our duty to spend; we shall  be taking avery useful course if we each contribute  our share, and we shall be doing a great service to  the whole world.
(116) Mr. President, to cut the budget ceiling  would be a very false economy, just like saving  the expenses of a doctor and endangering one's  own. life. The amount that is necessary for real  progress and for the real work of Unesco must be  provided at all costs.
(117) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  the Union of Burma and call upon the delegate of  Belgium.
(118) Mr. Louis VERNIERS (Belgium) - (Transla-  tion from the French) Gentlemen, judging by my-  self, I presume that you will all be feeling very  exhausted after this protracted, painful and com-  plicated discussion which, alas, is repeated al-  most every year in the same circumstances; and  I should like to state at the outset that I agree with  the proposal just made by our colleague from the  German Federal Republic to the effect that, at the  next session of Unesco's General Conference, it  would be preferable to make a careful study of the  programme before discussing the budget ceiling.  This does not mean that delegates would be ob-  liged, on arrival, to subscribe without discussion  and thorough examination to all the proposals sub-  mitted by the Chairman of the Executive Board and  the Director-General. My last remark is not in-  tended as a criticism of their work; they are, in-  deed, both fully aware of my respect and esteem.  But it is both right and legitimate, in a democratic  assembly, that the representatives of the respon-  sible governments who finance the work should be  entitled to check the proposals put before them.
(119) My position here is a little ambiguous. I  still regard myself, in a way, as a member of the  Executive Board; but I am, at the same time, the  official delegate of the Belgian Government. I  should like to link this statement with a very brief  statement which I made to the Administrative  Commission and which I may have to repeat at a  later meeting of that Commission. I was advoca-  ting freedom of action for the members of the  Executive Board. If I had still been a member of  the Executive Board, I should have said to the Dir-  ector-General, after examining his programme:  "Congratulations! This is certainly the best pro-  gramme ever drawn up by Unesco, although that  does not mean that it is irreproachable, for there
11-15  are certain amendments which might still be made.  It would be possible, if the financial position is  really so serious, to make certain cuts without  thereby jeopardizing the cause of peace'. But at  that juncture, if I had still been a member of the  Executive Board, I should have heeded my feelings  rather than my reason, and have said: "Let us  expand the programme, and the budget accordingly. "
(120) I am unable to forget, however, that I am  here today as the official delegate of the Belgian  Government. There is in this Government a se-  vere guardian of the public interests, who holds  the national purse strings; and he listens not to  the dictates of his feelings, but only to reason.  This guardian is at present in straitened circum-  stances; he is forced to cut the national budget  for education, science and culture, and it there-  fore seems to him to be legitimate, reasonable,  I might even say logical to demand that the in-  ternational Organization for science, education  and culture do likewise. In fact, however, he has  not gone as far as that. He has simply given me  instructions not to approve a budget figure above  the 1952 figure.
(121) Well, I shall venture not to obey his orders  to the letter, at the risk of being rapped over the  knuckles on my return. I shall therefore propose  a compromise figure - one which will certainly not  please the Director-General, to whom I proffer  my sincere apologies. I should like so much to be  able to say: "Tam supporting your budget figure  whole-heartedly". I am proposing a modest figure  and I presume to hope that the United Kingdom and  the United States delegations, whose attitude at  present appears to be totally uncompromising,  may be willing to make a generous gesture and  raise their figure slightly. The figure I have in  mind is $18, 000, 000. I repeat that it is not very  much, but it is better than nothing, and it is an  indication of how far we can go to meet the wishes  of the Director-General.
(122) This is a compromise solution, somewhat  on the lines of the one proposed by the Italian de-  legate. We are accustomed, in my country, to do  a lot with very little, so that we are forced to use  our ingenuity. I am confident that Unesco, with  an income of $18,000,000 could with ingenuity  achieve something, although this figure is admit-  tedly, in my opinion, too low. I should also like  to point out that the stabilization for which we are  pressing at present is only intended to be tempo-  rary. It is reasonable to suppose that, two years  from now, my country's economic recovery drive  will have achieved its purpose, and my Treasury  will be able, in 1954, to approve for the years
1955 and 1956 a larger budget, compatible with  the world's needs.
(123) Ido not intend to dwell at length on another  point which has already been raised by two of the  previous speakers: the fact that, when we have  paid our annual contribution to Unesco, we still  have to reckon with the costs of the National Com-  - 201 -   II-15  mission, our contribution to the work of the In-  ternational Computation Centre and the European  Laboratory for Nuclear Research, in addition to  which there are the costs of sending delegations  to sessions of the General Conference - indeed I  myself proposed that we should go to Montevideo,  which will entail a very considerable increase in  our country's expenses for 1954. And finally  there are the costs of delegations and experts for  conferences and committees convened under Un-  esco!ls auspices. I therefore conclude, Mr. Pre-  sident, by formally proposing the modest - ex-  tremely modest - figure of $18,000,000 for the  total contributions.
(124) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Belgium and call upon the delegate of Greece.
(125) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) - (Translation  from the French) Mr. President, our attitude  since 1945, since in fact we decided at the Con-  ference of Allied Ministers in London to set up  this Organization, is so familiar to all our col-  leagues that there can be no doubt that we are  speaking with a full knowledge of the case. The  programme of Unesco as we conceived it in Lon-  don has changed, in spirit as well as in fact: the  reconstruction work has totally disappeared, and  the voluntary international assistance has been cut  down. We have been at work for ten years, for it  was in 1942 that the first plans for this Organiza-  tion were made. Yet what do we see? The world  emerged from the last disastrous war a very sick  creature; that sickness is now becoming chronic,  and the remedies we are applying are growing  continually weaker.
(126) This being so, the problem facing us today in  our country is extremely serious, for we have lost  our scientific capital. We have evenlost our educa-  tional capital, and have received no aid in conse-  quence. We are therefore obliged to draw on our own  budget for the assistance we requirein our country  for this reconstruction work. Greece has ever been  the friend of culture and civilization, but its first  task is to reconstruct the country andtore-establish  a standard of living at least equal to the pre-war  standard; and this she has unfortunately not yet  been able to do. Since Unesco no longer gives as-  sistance for reconstruction, we are obligedto spend  our own national capital on work with which Unesco  had promised to help us. In these circumstances,  we cannot but endorse the figure proposed by the  United States of America and the United Kingdom.  But I venture to hope that the last word on the sub-  ject has not yet been said; our colleague Mr. Ver-  niers has suggested a solution to which we might,  perhaps, all be prepared to subscribe.  DECISION ON THE BUDGET ESTIMATES FOR 1953-1954
(127) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, we have now come  PLENARY MEETINGS  to the end of the general discussion. There are  several amendments; but before I request the  Secretary to read these amendments I shall ask  the Heads of the French and Japanese delegations  whether they would be willing to accept one figure  instead of two, as the difference between them is  a nominal one. The Head of the French delegation  has proposed an assessment level of $19, 000, 000,  while the Head of the Japanese delegation has pro-  posed $19, 055,000. If one of those figures is ad-  opted, it will no longer be necessary to vote on  these two amendments separately.  I call upon the Head of the Japanese delegation.
(128) Mr. Tamon MAEDA (Japan) - Mr. Presi-  dent, we are ready to accept the amendment put  forward by the French delegation.
(129) The PRESIDENT - I shall now request the Sec-  retary to read the various amendments, with their  financial implications, before we proceed to a vote,
(130) Mr. MONTAGNIER (Secretary of the Gene-  ral Conference) - (Translation from the French)  The first proposal was supported by the Indian and  Swiss delegations. The following are the figures  to be inserted in the draft resolution submitted by  the Administrative Commission.  Paragraph (1) Maximum  assessment level  Paragraph (2) Provisional  gross budget level  Paragraph (3) Provisional  spending budget level $19,081, 060
(131) Next comes the United Kingdom proposal,  supported bythe United States of America, Turkey,  and various other delegations.  Paragraph (1) Maximum  assessment level  Paragraph (2) Provisional  gross budget level  Paragraph (3) Provisional  spending budget level $16, 354, 242
(132) Thirdly comes the joint French and Japanese  proposal.  The Japanese delegate,  own proposal, endorses the French proposal.  figures are as follows:  Paragraph (1) Maximum  assessment level  Paragraph (2) Provisional  gross budget level  Paragraph (3) Provisional  spending budget level $17, 774, 354
(133) The fourth proposal is the Belgian proposal,  supported by Greece:  Paragraph (1) Maximum  assessment level  Paragraph (2) Provisional  gross budget level  Paragraph (3) Provisional  spending budget level  $20, 439, 104  $20, 961, 458  $17, 436, 000  $17, 958, 354  having withdrawn his  The  $19, 000, 000  ‘$19, 522, 354  $18, 000, 000  $18, 522, 354  $16, 866, 354  - 202 -   PLENARY MEETIN
(134) The PRESIDENT - Does any delegation re-  quire any clarification? Are the figures quite  clear?
(135) Mr. Louis VERNIERS (Belgium) - (Transla-  tion from the French) Mr. President, I have the  honour to propose that the meeting be adjourned  for a quarter of an hour, in order to allow the  Heads of the delegations which have proposed the  figures of $19, 000, 000 and $18, 000, 000, and per-  haps also those which have proposed the lower  figure of $17,436,000, to meet and try to reach  agreement on a compromise figure.
(136) The PRESIDENT - I should like to take the  sense of the meeting, Do we all agree to suspend  this meeting for 15 minutes, to allow the delega-  tions to consult among themselves? Any objec-  tions?... I take it that the meeting is infavour.  The meeting is adjourned.  The meeting adjourned at 6.20 p.m.  sumed at 7.10 p.m.  and re-
(137) The PRESIDENT - The meeting is called to  order. I call upon the Head of the French delega-  tion.
(138) Mr. Paul MONTEL (France) - (Translation  from the French) Mr. President, ladies and gent-  lemen, the meeting just held between representa-  tives of certain countries reached the conclusion  given below. I should tell you that the representa-  tives of delegations attending this meeting were of  the opinion that, in supporting the proposal I am  about to put to you, they might prevent a crisis in  Unesco which they were certain was liable to arise.
(139) The following countries propose a budget  ceiling of $18,000, 000: Germany, Sweden, Nor—  way, Denmark, United Kingdom, United States of  America, Belgium, Greece, Italy, Netherlands  and France.
(140) The PRESIDENT - Ladies and gentlemen,  France had originally proposed a maximum as-  sessment level of $19, 000, 000. Since France now  identifies itself with the new proposal, its original  proposal is automatically withdrawn.
(141) I should now like to ask Japan, which had  originally moved a maximum assessment level of  $19, 055, 000, but had later agreed to $19, 000, 000,  whether it would be willing to accept the revised  proposal of $18, 000, 000. :
(142) Mr. Tamon MAEDA (Japan) - (Translation  from the French) Mr. President, my delega-  tion will abstain from voting on the figure of  $18,000,000 which has been proposed, and will  maintain the proposal of $19,000, 000.
(143) The PRESIDENT - I should now like to know  from the United Kingdom delegation whether their
11-15  original proposal of $17, 000, 000 should be regar-  ded as withdrawn in view of the statement which  has just been read.
(144) Sir Ben Bowen THOMAS (United Kingdom) -  Mr. President, we have not withdrawn our original  motion. May I say a few words to the Conference  on this subject?
(145) Mr. President, fellow delegates, acting on  the instructions of my Government, I am to re-  quest that the Conference should divide on our pro-  posal. We have been impressed, as I am sure  other delegates have been impressed, by the am-  ount of support that this proposal has commanded,  and we feel that the Conference should proceed to  a division on that proposal.
(146) On the other hand, after consultation with  my own delegation and with the Heads of the dele-  gations in the private meeting that has just ended,  I am prepared to risk, as my colleague of the  Belgian delegation said, being rapped over the  knuckles on my return to the United Kingdom.
(147) May I take advantage of this opportunity to  reassert the sincerity of my country's belief in the  aims and purposes of Unesco? I would, in parti-  cular, ask the delegates of less developed terri-  tories to accept that as a fact. I would ask them  to accept it as a fact that our desireto assist them  is as sincere and as great as it ever was. At the  same time, I would ask them to believe us when  we say that our countries are in great economic  difficulty, and it is a short-term view to expect a  country that has an honourable record to risk  bankruptcy which would make it completely impos-  sible for that country to give assistance for a  number of years. These economic difficulties  must be borne in mind, and we visualize that with-  in a period - it is hoped, a limited period - of  years, it will be possible for our country to attain  greater economic stability and then to give Unesco  the financial support that, in its heart, it desires  to give.
(148) The PRESIDENT - According to the Rules of  Procedure, Rule 86, voting on amendments is as  follows:  "1. Whenan amendment to a proposal is moved,  the amendment shall be voted on first.
2. When two or more amendments to a pro-  posal are moved, the General Conference -shall  first vote on the amendment deemed by the Presi-  dent to be furthest removed in substance from the  original proposal and then on the amendment next  furthest removed therefrom, and so on, until all  the amendments have been put to the vote.
3. If one or more amendments are adopted,  the amended proposal shall then be voted upon.
4. A motion is considered an amendment to a  proposal if it merely adds to, deletes from or re-  vises part of that proposal. ;
(149) In accordance with this procedure, I shall  first put the amendment which is furthest removed  - 203 -
11-15 PLENARY  from the original proposal, namely the proposal  for an assessment level of $17, 436, 000.
(150) Mr. MONTAGNIER (Secretary of the General  Conference) - (Translation from the French) Maxi-  mum assessment level, paragraph 1 of the draft  resolution: $17, 436,000. Provisional gross bud-  get level: $17,958,354. Paragraph 3: Provi-  sional spending budget level: $16, 354, 242.
(151) The PRESIDENT - We shall now proceed to  a vote by roll-call.
(152) The vote was taken by roll-call.  Voted in favour: Australia, Austria, Cambodia,  Canada, Ceylon, Denmark, Dominican Republic,  Greece, Israel, Italy, Korea, New Zealand, Nor-  way, Sweden, Thailand, Turkey, Union of South  Africa, United Kingdom, United States of America.  Voted against: Belgium, Brazil, Burma, Col-  ombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Ecuador, Egypt, El Sal-  vador, France, German Federal Republic, Hon-  duras, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Japan, Jordan, Laos,  Lebanon, Liberia, Luxembourg, Mexico, Monaco,  Netherlands, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philip-  pines, Switzerland, Syria, Uruguay, Viet-Nam.  Abstained: China, Iran, Yugoslavia.  Absent: Afghanistan, Haiti, Nicaragua, Saudi-  Arabia, Venezuela.
(153) The PRESIDENT - The amendment is re-  jected. In favour: 19; against: 32; 3 abstentions  and 5 absent.
(154) I shall now put the next amendment to the  vote. This amendment is put forward by France  and a number of other delegations as a compro-  mise and I shall ask the Secretary to state its fin-  ancial implications.
(155) Mr. Howland SARGEANT (United States of  America) - I should like the names of the countries  to be read, before this'amendment is put to the  vote.
(156) Mr. MONTAGNIER (Secretary of the Gene-  ral Conference) - (Translation from the French)  Beglium, Denmark, France, German Federal Re-  public, Greece, Italy, Netherlands, Norway,  Sweden, United Kingdom, United States of Ame-  rica. The delegations have proposed the following  figures:  MEETINGS  Paragraph (1) Maximum  assessment level  Paragraph (2) Provisional  gross budget level  Paragraph (3) Provisional  spending budget level  $18, 000, 000  $18, 522, 354  $16, 866, 354
(157) The PRESIDENT - I call upon the delegate  of Iran.
(158) Mr. G. A. RAADI (Iran) - (Translation  from the French) Mr. President, I must confess  that I am a very poor mathematician. I should  therefore like to ask whether the Secretariat could  give us figures for the actual contribution of each  country; or whether, in order to avoid confusion,  the Secretariat could indicate the precise con-  tribution which Iran would have to pay if this bud-  get ceiling were approved.
(159) Mr. HODSON (Secretariat) - The contribu-  tion of Iran would be $31, 500 for each year.
(160) The PRESIDENT - We shall now proceed to  a vote by roll-call.
(161) The vote was taken by roll-call:  Voted in favour: Australia, Austria, Belgium,  Cambodia, Canada, Ceylon, Cuba, Dominican Re-  public, Denmark, France, German Federal Re-  public, Greece, Honduras, Iran, Israel, Italy,  Korea, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New Zealand,  Norway, Pakistan, Panama, Sweden, Thailand,  Turkey, Union of South Africa, United Kingdom,  United States of America.  Voted against: Brazil, Burma, Colombia, Costa  Rica, Ecuador, Egypt, Æl Salvador, India, Indo-  nesia, Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon, Liberia, Mexico,  Monaco, Peru, Philippines, Switzerland, Syria,  Uruguay, Viet-Nam.  Abstained: China,  Absent: Afghanistan,  Arabia, Venezuela,  Laos,  Nicaragua,  Yugoslavia.  Saudi-  Japan,  Haiti,
(162) The PRESIDENT - The amendment is ad-  opted: 29 in favour; 21 against; 4 abstentions and
5 absent.  The meeting rose at 7.35 p.m.  - 204 -