PLENARY MEETINGS II-14  FOURTEENTH PLENARY MEETING  Friday, 21 November 1952,  President:  at [0 a.m.  Dr. SARVEPALLI RADHAKRISHNAN (India)  CONTENTS  Presentation by the Chairman of the Executive Board  of the Proposed Programme and Budget Estimates  for 1953-1954.  Reports of the Budget Ebmmities and Adninisteative  Commission.  Statement bythe Dir TITRE Generel.  Discussion of the Proposed Programme nd i Budget  Estimates for 1953-1954:  of China, United Kingdom, Switzerland, Netherlands,  India, Australia, Norway,  United States of America and Pakistan.  PRESENTATION BY THE CHAIRMAN OF THE EXECU-  TIVE BOARD OF THE PROPOSED PROGRAMME AND  BUDGET ESTIMATES FOR 1953-1954.
(1) The PRESIDENT - Before we proceed, may I  refer to the death of Benedetto Croce, a great  philosopher, man of letters, art critic and huma-  nist, who fought for the liberty of the mind. I  should like the Ambassador of Italy to convey to  his Government and people our sincere sympathy  in their great loss. I call upon the Ambassador of  Italy, the leader of the delegation.
(2) Mr. Francesco G, MAMELI - Mr. President,  allow me to thank you, in the name of my country  and my Government, for the words you have said  on this sad occasion of the loss for Italy of our  greatest philosopher. Thank you.
(3) The PRESIDENT - We pass now to considera-  tion of item 14 of the Agenda: first, presentation  of the Proposed Programme and Budget Estimates  for 1953-1954 by the Chairman of the Executive  Board. I call upon Mr. Carneiro.
(4) Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil), Chairman of the Exe-  cutive Board - (Translation from the French) Mr.  President, fellow delegates, the main function of  the Executive Board is to propose Unesco's pro-  gramme at each Conference. In carrying out that  task, the Executive Board is required to follow the  lines laid down for it by the General Conference.
(5) During this year, 1952, the Executive Board  has spent over two months, on three separate
173  Speeches by the delegates  Yugoslavia, Indonesia,
177  occasions, in preparing the work that is about to  be laid before you. This is the first time the  Board has assumed responsibility to the Confer-  ence for both the programme and the budget in an  introduction signed jointly by the Director-General  and the Chairman of the Board. In discharging  that duty, the Board has paid particular attention  to resolutions 9.9, 12, 30.154, 30.34 and 43.15,  which were adopted for its guidance in drawing up  the proposed programme. I would ask you to bear.  these resolutions in mind and judge of the fidelity  with which, in performing our task, we have en-  deavoured to follow the wishes of the General Con-  ference which passed those resolutions.
(6) In the first place, we had to frame estimates  covering two years and to combine the programme  and budget in a single document. In it you will  find a detailed description of the work plan for  each project, with the sum of money allocated to  it. Thus, the document presents you, for the first  time, with a descriptive picture of our activities  in a form that is easy to handle, and at once de-  tailed and composite. It will, I am sure, be a  valuable guide to us during our discussions.
(7) The work plan and the budgetary justifications  are presented in such a way as to satisfy the re-  commendations of resolution 12.3 in particular.  I will read it to you:  "The work-plan budget justifications should be  drafted in a systematic and consistent form and  should show for each project:  (a) the relation of projected plans to the level of  activity expected to be achieved by the end of the  year prior to the period covered by the estimates;  - 169 -   II-14  (b) the cost of each project for each of the two  years for which estimates are being presented;  (c) the relation of projects with organizational  units so as to show work which is being carried  out by each unit and, in so far as possible, the  work-load of each unit in relation to its estimated  staff requirements."
(8) The plan. for establishing a world network of  international fundamental education centres, sub-  mitted to the General Conference at its Sixth Ses-  sion and adopted as a special project(1951 resolu-  tions: 9.3), will henceforth form an integral part  of the section of the programme dealing with fund-  amental education (Proposed Programme for 1953  and 1954, 1.21 (3): Establishment of a world net-  work of Unesco fundamental education centres).
(9) There are strong reasons for this measure of  integration. Without it, not only would the picture  of Unesco's work in this very important field of  fundamental education be incomplete, but it would  be impossible to see the connexion between the  various operations involved. The programme  should bring out the steps by which, setting out  from studies and exchanges of information in con-  nexion with Associated Projects, the scheme me-  thodically advances through pilot projects and ex-  pert missions until it culminates in centres for  the training of personnel and the production of  material. That has been our aim in setting in its  appropriate place within this organic process a  project which is not at present differentiated by  any special financial provision from the other ele-  ments of the whole of which it forms part.
(10) The same concern for cohesion has guided  us in the presentation of Unesco's rôle in the Uni-  ted Nations and Specialized Agencies Expanded  Programme of Technical Assistance for economic  development. In accordance with resolution 12.2  of the General Conference, budget appropriations  under this heading appear in an annex ‘to the pre-  sent document. It should be noted that these es-  timates cover 1953 only, as the annual budget for  the Technical Assistance Programme is framed  only for the succeeding year. In this Expanded  Programme of Technical Assistance, which now  appears in the body of the document, you will find  a number of allocations that are additional to the  normal Unesco programme allocations. Such is  the case with fundamental education, primary edu-  cation, technical and vocational training, scientific  and technical documentation, scientific research,  the teaching and dissemination of science, tech-  nical means of mass communication and their use  in the development of education and dissemination  of science. Technical Assistance thus becomes  an additional but normal and inseparable part of  our programme.
(11) Two types of work emerge from Unesco's  present programme: the first consists of basic  services of a permanent nature, such as those  concerned with the organization, at the interna-  tional level, of documentation services, the diffu-  PLENARY MEETINGS  sion of technical information, and collaboration  among experts, while the second is made up of  work aiming at concrete results to be effected or  obtained within a variable but always definite pe-  riod. In resolution 9.91 on priorities, the Gene-  ral Conference referred to the criteria which the  United Nations General Assembly, at the sugges-  tion of the Economic and Social Council, recom-  mended to the governing bodies of the United Na-  tions and the Specialized Agencies in the selection  of projects proposed for their adoption.
(12) All the projects appearing in the document  which you are about to examine meet, I can ass-  -ure you, in varying degrees the demands imposed  by the order of priority thus fixed, as you will see  from a study of the accompanying justifications  and work plans. Each project is sufficiently vast  in range to justify international action. In draw-  ing up this programme, our invariable guiding  principle has been to ensure the continuity of the  work, and the basis of that continuity is the order  ‘of priority established by the General Conference.  As you all know, a programme that is really a  programme does not consist of a mere conglome-  ration of projects. It is a carefully assembled  mechanism, every element in which is justified  by the rôle assigned to it by its position in the  whole machine even more than by its own intrinsic  merits. At its Fifth Session, the General Confer-  ence clearly signified its wish that future pro-  grammes should follow those lines, and the pro-  gramme adopted at its Sixth Session represented  a decisive step in that direction. The programme  here proposed conforms to this plan, and it is  therefore important to pick out the guiding prin-  ciples which inform it and order its harmonious  arrangement.
(13) The Board has meticulously studied the pri-  orities recommended by the General Conference  resolutions. We have spent whole days and weeks  weighing up the different projects submitted to us  and tried to grade them according to their merits.  I must ask you, when examining priority projects,  to bear in mind the diversity, not of the criteria  on which the priorities are based, but of the needs  which each project is intended to satisfy. A pro-  ject having priority 1 for South Asia has not ne-  cessarily the same priority for South America.  But at the same time South America must ac-  quiesce in voting priority 1 for that project which  is a priority 1 project for South Asia. A project  which is priority 1 for a highly developed Euro-  pean country is not necessarily a No. 1 priority  project for a country in an economically under-  developed region. TUnesco's universality and its  concern to meet the needs and requests of all  regions often oblige it to consider under a single  priority two projects which differ in priority acc-  ording to region, but which, being conceived within  the general framework of Unesco's programme  and of total world needs, must necessarily receive  absolute priority. This criterion of relative pri-  - 170 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  orities is of paramount importance for a correct  understanding of the work accomplished here.
(14) Priority A. 1 corresponds to the budget figure  needed to maintain the Organization's activities at  their present level. In this connexion, it should  be observed that the present level of activities is  distinctly lower than that envisaged by the General  Conference at its last session for the financial  year 1952, when it adopted the programme and  voted the budget for that period. In fact large in-  creases have occurred in all items of expenditure  owing to the rise in prices and inthe cost-of-living  allowances of the staff. To meet this increased  expenditure we have had to reduce 'pro tanto"  activities for which ‘provision had been made, so  much so that the work now actually proceeding is  below the level intended by the General Confer-  ence.
(15) In the eyes of the Executive Board, Priority  A.1 represents a minimum programme, in the  sense that any cut made in it, and not compensated  by an equivalent increase, would entail a recession  in which the Board, for its part, could not ac-  quiesce.
(16) To guarantee that the minimum programme  described as Priority A. 1 should be financed in its  entirety, it must not be forgotten that the amount  of the budget estimates to be allocated to that pro-  gramme by way of receipts must be regarded as  equal, not to the total expenditure, but only to a  fraction thereof estimated at 92. 2 per cent or even  lower today.
(17) The Priorities A.1 and B. 1 which you will be  examining throughout this document ensure the  maintenance of the Organization's activities at the
1952 level. In that respect they form a unit. A.1  and B. 1 are indivisible in so far as the 1952 level  of activities is considered to be a minimum. To  separate A.1 from B.1 would mean falling below  thel952 level of activities.
(18) Priorities A.2 and B. 2, which also appear in  the document for the two years 1953 and 1954, to-  gether total approximately $1, 361, 000.
(19) The Executive Board has decided upon a draft  programme the budgetary limits of which are de-  termined by the total figure for Priorities A.1,  B.1, A.2 and B. 2; that is to say, $20,691, 306 for  the two years. It is that Proposed Programme  and Budget in its entirety which the Executive  Board recommends for approval by the General  Conference,
(20) The Executive Board does not seek to conceal  from Member States the fact that that budget re-  quires an increase in their contributions. But it  believes that the General Conference will not find  this increase - which is the strict minimum re-  quired to satisfy the most modest demands for the  continuity and normal development of the Organ-  ization - disproportionate to the importance of the  services which Unesco will thus be able to render  to the cause of peace and social progress.
(21) When Unesco was created the havoc of war
11-14  had scarcely ceased. The world was still a gap-  ing wound. That wound is not yet healed. As you  well know, it would be useless to try and heal an  infection or a wound with a dose of anti-biotic  smaller than the minimum effective dose. It is  useless to give a patient such a dose, even repea-  ted several times, however much we may feel in-  clined to do so; the wound will not heal nor the  infection disappear. Therefore this Programme  and Budget have been drawn up in the hope of  achieving that scientifically established minimum  of effective action. For doctors to meet and con-  sult, in however great a throng, on the use of  anti-biotics in doses below the minimum would be  futile. You, gentlemen, could never be guilty of  that!  REPORTS OF THE BUDGET COMMITTEE AND ADMI-  NISTRATIVE COMMISSION.
(22) The PRESIDENT - The delegate of Sweden,  Mr. Düring, will now present the report of the  Budget Committee.
(23) Mr. Ingemar DURING (Sweden), Chairman  of the Budget Committee - Mr. President, fellow  delegates, on behalf of the Budget Committee I  have the honour to present to you its first preli-  minary report contained in document 7C/BUD/2,  including three Annexes.
(24) The Budget Committee began its work on 3  November and has, during eighteen meetings, ex-  amined the budget estimates. The Committee has  set up three working parties and a drafting com-  mittee. In previous years, the Budget Committee  spent most of its time on a detailed examination of  the various programme projects. Owing to the  fact that, on an increasing scale, these projects  have been estimated and calculated on the basis of  certain budgetary standards, this year the Com-  mittee has devoted considerable time to examining  these standards, as contained in the introduction  to the budget document.
(25) The Committee has also examined and dis-  cussed certain general questions relating to big  objects of expenditure as, for instance, general  administration, travel, publications, common costs  and the costs of seminars and meetings.
(26) As you may know, it is not within the terms  of reference of this Committee to discuss the bud-  get ceiling, transfers of priorities, the desirabi-  lity of any project or, generally speaking, pro-  gramme questions; and the Committee has been  anxious to keep strictly within its terms of refer-  ence. We have discussed budgetary and technical  questions in order to see whether the estimates  weré accurate and reasonable, and we have ex-  amined all priorities with equal attention. We  have, however, felt it our duty to investigate whe-  ther, by slightly modifying work plans and opera-  tional methods, efficiency could be increased,  =L7l =   I-14  funds more wisely spent, and economies thereby  effected. On behalf of the Committee, I respect-  fully request you to bear our remarks in mind  when you are discussing the work plans for 1953  and 1954, and 1 should like to point out that it  might sometimes be of value, in order to under-  stand more fully the background of our remarks,  to read the report in conjunction with the provi-  sional summary records of our meetings.
(27) The Committee has had an excellent Rappor-  teur in Mr. Moore; like myself, he is quite will-  ing, during the future programme discussions, to  assist with any necessary information on specific  points. Mr. President,  mit for the consideration of the General Confer-  ence this first preliminary report of the Budget  Committee.
(28) The PRESIDENT - We now have the report of  the Administrative Commission on the estimates  for the financial years 1953-1954, Mr. Luther  Evans, the Chairman of that Commission, will  present the report.
(29) Mr. Luther EVANS (United States of Ame-  rica), Chairman of the Administrative Commis-  sion - Mr. President, fellow delegates, the docu-  ment to which I shall refer is 7C/ADM/ 39:  "First Report of the Administrative Commission  In order to ensure that the meaning and effect  of the budget ceiling decision is clearly understood  and set forth, the Administrative Commission re-  commends that the General Conference use the  following form as the basis of its resolution on the  ceiling:  "The General Conference resolves that:
1. The maximum assessment level required to  finance the provisional budget shown in paragraph
2. In view of the fact that $522, 354 are avail-  able as non-budgetary income, the provisional  gross. budget level for the two-year period 1953-
3. Since it is anticipated that the contributions  which may not be receivable in respect of 1953-
1954 will be 9. 2 per cent, the provisional spending  budget level is $  The General Conference further resolves that:  any necessary changes may be made in the  figure given above for the provisional gross and  spending levels and incorporated in the Appropria-  tion Resolution presented to it, provided that the  above estimated assessment level shall not be in-  creased.  The Administrative Commission wishes to draw  the attention of the General Conference to the fact  that the level of activity which it will be possible  to finance within the above spending budget level  may be affected by any decision which the General  Conference may eventually take on the proposal of  the Director-General to use the Working Capital  Fund to finance possible salary adjustments."  I have the honour to sub- .  PLENARY MEETINGS
(30) The Administrative Commission struggled  with the problem of how best to present to you the  form of the resolution, so that, by filling in the  blank spaces, you would be able to know all that  you need to know concerning our financial arrange-  ments. We discussed at great length the form of  this resolution. We decided, as I reported yester-  day to this Conference, that it would be most desi-  rable to take first the vote on the seat of the Eighth  Session of the General Conference. You have now  taken that vote, and you will have before you all  the considerations which affect the budget. We  debated the sequence in which we should present  these items, and we decided to place first the max-  imum assessment level. We believed that govern-  ments had given instructions to many delegations  concerning the assessment level; we therefore  placed it first, although we recognized that, in the  debate, attention might be focused by some speak-  ers on other figures, such as those emphasized by  the Chairman of the Executive Board when he pre-  sented his report a few moments ago.
(31) You cannot fill in one of these three blanks  without being able, with the information before  you, to fill in all of them, because the items are  very closely related. I should like to explain their  mathematical relationships: if you fill in the  amount of the maximum assessment level in para-  graph 1, you will be able to arrive at the figure to  be filled in in paragraph 2 by adding the $522, 354  mentioned in paragraph 2.
(32) To fill in the blank space in paragraph 3, you  will deduct 9. 2 per cent of the figure in paragraph
1 from the figure in paragraph 2. You deduct 9. 2  per cent, that is to say, if you accept our recom-  mendation, because that figure is itself one of our  recommendations; it is estimated that 9.2 per  cent of what is assessed on Member States will not  be paid. I should indicate that the Administrative  Commission did consider proposals to change that
9. 2 per cent to some other figure. The principal  proposal, supported in the Administrative Com-  mission by 14 votes, with 18 against, was that  China's contribution should be scaled down to a  figure more nearly approximating the figure that  China has indicated in its communication to Unesco  that it was intending to pay, and that the contribu-  tions of other Member States should be recalcula-  ted. The Commission, however, decided not to  bring forward that recommendation to you.
(33) Thelast paragraph of the resolution presented  here is for a rather special purpose, and amounts  in effect to this: the budget totals - both the gross  and the spending levels - may be increased by the  General Conference if, at the same time, both  sides of the budget are increased by the same  amount. That is to say, if the Conference passes  a resolution which increases the income of the  Organization from sources other than the assess-  ments on Member States, it may at the same time  increase the spending level - the expenditure side  of the ledger - by the same amount, without going  = 172 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  contrary to the vote that you would have taken by  voting the first three paragraphs.
(34) Perhaps it would be clearer if I gave you an  illustration. Let us suppose that the travelling ex-  hibitions which Unesco has been sponsoring should  be found to be saleable at cost; then the Confer-  ence might authorize Unesco to increase the num-  ber of those exhibitions - thereby increasing the  expenditures of the Organization - resolving at the  same time that the income from the sale should be  the same as the expenditures. Or, the Conference  might vote to take money out of the Publications  Fund, or authorize expenditures from the Publica-  tions Fund, or increase the amount authorized, if  at the same time it insisted that that money should  be replaced in the Fund by the sale of publications.
(35) There is one further point that I wish to  make, and that is covered by the last paragraph.  There is before you a draft resolution presented  by the Executive Board which would authorize a  number of expenditures from the Working Capital  Fund for various kinds of activities; these include,  for instance, the item for the International Com-  putation Centre and various other projects; and  among the paragraphs of that draft resolution is  one which would authorize the Director-General to  expend, with the approval of the Executive Board,  up to $500,000 to cover unforeseen and emergency  expenditures, which might be covered by other  resolutions of the General Conference.
(36) Let me give you an illustration. If we should  hear that there might be an increase in the cost of  living, which would require an elevation of the  wages of locally recruited staff, or if we were to  anticipate that, by the rise in the cost of living in  New York, the United Nations might change its in-  ternational salary scales, thereby affecting the  salary scales of Unesco, according to our present  regulations, these expenditures - if you should  pass such a resolution - would be authorized pre-  sumably to be made from the Working Capital  Fund. The draft provides for that. You have not  decided that matter yet. You may decide to cover  such expenditures as we have covered them this  year, by making curtailments in programme acti-  vities. We simply draw your attention to that pro-  blem in this last paragraph so that you may keep it  in mind when you vote the budget level. It is a  factor affecting the budget level, whether you take  care of that item out of the budget you are voting  here, or whether you wish it to be taken care of by  making withdrawals of a temporary character, to  be reimbursed in later years, from the Working  Capital Fund. I think that covers our report.  STATEMENT BY THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL.
(37) The PRESIDENT - I now call upon the Direc-  tor-General.
(38) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL - (Translation
11-14  from the French) Mr. President, ladies and  gentlemen, I have the honour to present to you the  Budget Estimates for carrying out the proposed  programme of the Organization for the years 1953  and 1954, as set down, with the requisite justifica-  tions, in document 7C/5.
(39) Inaccordance with the resolution of the Gene-  ral Conference, you will be discussing a single  document in which the programme and the budget  are so closely bound together that the Chairman of  the Executive Board and myself felt it necessary  to write a joint introduction which would cover  simultaneously both aspects of the same problem:  the ends and the means.
(40) At its Thirtieth Session, the Executive Board  unanimously resolved to recommend that the Gene-  ral Conference should approve the total draft pro-  gramme and budget. I should like to deal with this  point first of all. The Executive Board takes the  view - and sodo I - that the draft programme must  be considered as a whole and that its elements can-  not be isolated from one another without serious  consequences. The sums required for carrying it  out amount to $9,914,866 for 1953 and $10,776,440  for 1954 - that is, a total of $20,691,306 for the  two years.
(41) In deference to the wish expressed by the  General Conference, the services and activities  which make up the programme have been divided  according to four degrees of priority, marked by  the symbols A.1, A.2, B.1 and B.2. These four  categories are explained in the Introduction to  document 7C/5. Their purpose, as stated in para-  graph 12 of the Introduction, is to "mark different  budgetary levels in a single programme’.
(42) This method of presentation, which links pro-  gramme and budget indissolubly together at every  stage, should be of considerable help to you in  your deliberations, especially if you allow your-  selves to be guided in your judgment by the pro-  gramme itself, which is not merely the cement but  the very fabric of the whole structure.
(43) Nevertheless, there are no doubt some dele-  gates who think that it is possible to preserve the  programme in all essential respects with a budget  considerably lower than the one for which we are  asking. But in my view, this hope is based on a  number of illusions.
(44) The first illusion is to believe that it is pos-  sible to cut down the programme without seriously  affecting the normal development of the Organiza-  tion and the continuity of the work it has under-  taken, The Executive Board does not think so.  Neither do I. Of course, you can make whatever  changes you deem advisable in the draft prog-  ramme. Already, nearly a hundred amendments  have been submitted by various delegations, the  budgetary implications of which are estimated at  rather more than $400,000 for the two years.  And, in this connexion, I should like to make it  clear that when the Executive Board and myself  ask that the unity and equilibrium of the prog-  - 173 -   II-14  ramme should be borne in mind, that in no way  means we intend to impose upon you a draft which  you must accept or reject "en bloc'. It means  that, with due respect to your sovereign authority,  we think that, although the items which make up  the programme are capable of modification in de-  tail, care for the interest of the Organization will  no doubt lead you to approve the general economy,  that is to say, the total proportions and volume of  the draft. The fact is that the programme sub-  mitted to you is a minimum programme. The  proof of this, among other things, is that it is en-  tirely restricted to activities defined as priorities  by the Economic and Social Council.
(45) The second illusion is to suppose that you can  preserve the programme while at the same time  reducing the cost of administration. In preceding  financial years, administrative expenditure has  already been drastically reduced. At the same  time, the number of Member States has increased  and price levels have risen. In spite of this, the  draft budget shows economies. If further reduc-  tions are now made, I should no longer have the  means at my disposal to guarantee the continuance  of the present administrative system, which is the  outcome of several years’ experience. Now I think  this system indispensable, not only for the good  administration of the Unesco Secretariat, but also  for ensuring the concerted effort required to im-  plement a co-ordinated programme.
(46) The third illusion is to imagine that certain  projects in the programme can be financed, in  part at least, from sources outside the ordinary  budget of Unesco, by voluntary contributions of a  public or private character. With the unanimous  approval of the General Conference, we tried, in  the case of the Special Project in Fundamental  Education, to raise funds of this kind for the cen-  tres for the training of personnel and the produc-  tion of fundamental education material. If any  cause deserves to awaken international solidarity,  it is surely this crusade against the ignorance to  which more than halfthe human race is condemend.  Nevertheless our efforts till now have met with no  success. That is no reason to give up trying, but  it would not be advisable, either, to rely on such  expedients for providing the Organization with  funds it needs to honour its obligations.
(47) Similarly, it would not be wise to yield to the  temptation of regarding the Technical Assistance  funds as a source from which to make up for the  shortages in the ordinary budget. And that for two  reasons - one technical and the other moral. The  technical reason is that Unesco's participation in  the Technical Assistance Programme cannot be  planned freely by the General Conference, as is  done in the case of the normal programme. I ex-  plained in my speech at the end of the general de-  bate that these operations are neither initiated nor  ultimately directed by Unesco. It is true that, in  order to ensure that the work is clearly explained  and effectively carried out, both my Report and  PLENARY MEETINGS  the document before you group together the activi-  ties undertaken in the normal programme and  those undertaken by Technical Assistance. But  this form of presentation in no way effects the  basic duality of the programmes and budget esti-  mates. As for the moral reason, that derives  from the undeniable fact that the Technical Assis-  tance funds do not belong to Unesco. Our task is  merely to administer as well as we can the per-  centage of these funds which is allocated to us, not  to enable us to organize and develop education,  science and culture in accordance with the aims  Unesco has set itself, but in order that we may  speed economic progress by extending education  and improving methods of teaching and scientific  research.
(48) I have already explained my views on this  point at some length, and there is no need to go  over them again. I would simply add this. From  the most recent information reaching the Secreta-  riat, it appears that the credits carried over from
1952 to 1953 will be much less than might have  been expected afew months, even a few weeks ago,  and also that there seem to be no grounds for  hoping that the donor countries will be able to  make their voluntary contributions in 1953 appre-  ciably higher than they were in 1952.
(49) Lastly, I am aware that, when it is proposed  to reduce the budget total before discussing the  programme in detail, every delegation is apt to  think that the projects in which it takes a particu-  lar interest can be saved at the expense of others  which are less essential in the eyes of its own  country. But naturally each delegation has its pre-  ferences, and when the General Conference has  decided to reduce the budget, it finds that it can-  not agree on the cuts which then have to be made.  That is the fourth illusion - to take for granted  that an "a priori" agreement on the budget implies  an "a posteriori" agreement on the programme.  Experience has shown that the only way out of this  difficulty is to decide on an all-round reduction on  a percentage basis. This method, which satisfies  nobody, ends by frustrating everybody. Thus the  unanimity achieved more or less easily in voting  the budget total gives rise, when it comes to the  programme, to an equally unanimous sense of  grievance. If you read over the records of the last  session you will be confronted with the melancholy  spectacle of an assembly reduced to irritation and  despair through being forced to sacrifice certain  projects which merited its approval to a guillotine  it had itself helped to erect. To judge by the state-  ments made in the course of the general discus-  sion, I am very much afraid that if you repeat that  procedure you will be doomed to the same disa-  greeable and vexatious experience.
(50) However, the Conference is once more called  upon to fix the budget total before discussing the  programme. In that event, as in previous years,  you will be obliged to estimate in the abstract, as  it were - I mean, without any reference whatsoever  -174 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  to our actual projects - the resources which Unesco  needs to develop its work.
(51) How is this problem to be solved? Theoreti-  cally, three solutions are possible: reduction,  stabilization, and development.
(52) A reduction, however small, in the resources  Unesco at present has at its disposal is a contin-  gency which, you will understand, I cannot bring  myself to consider. It would mean shutting our  eyes and hearts to the world's distress or else  admitting openly that Unesco has failed and can  never succeed in its efforts to alleviate that dis-  tress. Everything that has been said here: during  the general discussion of my Report proves that  the General Conference does not feel that way.
(53) Stabilization? I know that for some the word  has an almost magical sound. But, as I have said  on so many occasions, for every living organism  stabilization spells decay. That is particularly  true of an organization like Unesco, which is only  six years old and which is striving conscientiously  to keep in touch with reality. Stabilization would  mean betraying the hopes-that have been placed in  us, although they grow unceasingly. And to betray  those hopes in the difficult years we are passing  through would be to deny what is best in ourselves:  our faith in social and intellectual progress as a  bastion of peace.
(54) There remains the principle of development.  This is the principle upon which both the budget  and the programme you are about to consider have  been built. But neither the members of the Execu-  tive Board nor myself are living in Utopia. We  are only too well aware of the heavy obligations  which, in the present state of the world, national  budgets have to meet. We have therefore taken  particular care to propose only areasonable deve-  lopment. The Introduction to document 7C/5 con-  tains all the explanations needed in this respect.  It may, however, be helpful if I dwell for a few  moments on this point, so that there may no longer  be any doubt in the mind of any delegate as to the  point at issue.
(55) The budget of $8,718,000 which the General  Conference adopted at its last session, for the fin-  ancial year 1952, is a true budget. By that I mean  that its financial requirements were met in full.  You will remember, however, that we were able to  do this only because, in order to compensate for  the non-payment of contributions due from certain  States, we had recourse to special funds which  may not be available in the future. Indeed, no such  procedure is envisaged in the draft budget for the  next financial years. Consequently, in assessing  the increase which the Executive Board recom-  mends, it is necessary to compare the two bud-  gets. And if this is to be done aright, the com-  parison which must be made is between the 1952  budget of $8, 718,000 and, not the combined total  of the 1953 and 1954 budgets, but only that part of  them which we may assume will be financed by  contributions actually received from Member  II-14  States: that is to say, A.1 plus A.2, excluding  B.1 and B.2. A.1 plus A.2 constitute the true  budget, but A.1, as explained in paragraph 18 of  the Introduction, marks the stabilization level of  the Organization's activities, and A.2, as shown  in paragraph 15, represents the full development  proposed for these activities.
(56) The total of the estimates included under A. 2  amounts to $1, 256, 000 for the two years, that is,  an average of $628,000 a year. This figure ex-  actly represents the actual increase in funds which  you are asked to grant the Organization. It is an  increase of 7.2 per cent over the budget for 1952.
(57) It must also be noted that the salary adjust-  ments necessitated by the increased cost of living  place an additional burden upon the budget of  $240, 000, which does not correspond to any in-  crease in our actual resources. We have met this  expenditure this year already, by extracting the  required sum from the current budget through  economies which have reduced to the same extent  the means at our disposal for carrying out the  work of the Organization. The fact remains, how-  ever, that when the General Conference, at its  last session, adopted the 1952 budget, in which it  had not anticipated this expenditure, it fixed the  activities of Unesco at a level which cannot be  maintained in 1953 and 1954 unless there is an  annual increase of $240,000 in the credits allotted.  If, therefore, we were to compare the budgets -  and I think it would be fairer to do so - not onthe  basis of the resources actually available, but on  that of the activities envisaged, we should have to  fix the stabilization level, that isto say, Priority  A.1, at a figure equivalent to that given in docu-  ment 7C/5, plus $240,000 a year. In that case,  if the budget total remains the same, A.2 would  decrease to the same amount. The sum required  for the development of the Organization would then  amount to no more than $388, 000 a year, which is  equivalent to an increase of 4.45 per cent com-  pared with the budget voted by the General Confe-  rence at its last session.
(58) However that may be, even if we keep to the  letter of the document, that is to say, to the figure  of $628,000 a year for Priority A.2, can it be  said that this sum, which represents a develop-  ment of the order of 7.2 per cent, is an excessive  increase for ensuring the growth of an Organiza-  tion of 68 Member States? I beg you, ladies and  gentlemen, to think that over. To my mind, it is  the whole question raised by the draft programme  and budget submitted to you.
(59) I should like to be brief. But I cannot con-  clude without making certain observations con-  cerning the reports which have been submitted to  you by the Budget Committee and the Administra-  tive Commission.
(60) I should like above all to express my sym-  pathy to the distinguished Chairman of the Budget  Committee and his colleagues. Indeed, it seems  evident that the task entrusted to this Committee  = 175 -   IT-14  was as delicate as it was vague. The Committee  had been instructed to ensure that the work plans  proposed by the Executive Board and myself were  "reasonable from the standpoint of costs". But  unless one disputes the averages defined on pages
12 to 19 of the document, which were used in cal-  culating budgetary estimates throughout the pro-  gramme, one can ascertain whether the work  plans are "reasonable! only by looking at them  from the standpoint of the programme they are  designed to carry out.
(61) This, no doubt, is what has led the Budget  Committee in its investigations to rely either upon  financial generalities having only a distant connexion  with details of the work plans, or else uponassump-  tions about the views of the General Conference  regarding the programme. In either case, and  however conscientious the Committee may have  been in its work - a conscientiousness to which I  should like to pay sincere tribute - the basis was  too unsubstantial a one upon which to build a solid  criticism.
(62) As regards staff, the Committee says that it  received with much uneasiness the proposal to  create, under Priority A.1, six more posts in the
1953 programme, and eight more in the 1954 pro-  gramme than there are in 1952. It argues that, as  Priority A.1 represents stabilization of the Orga-  nization's activities, the staff should be corres-  pondingly stabilized. But you must take into ac-  count the fact that it is proposed to reduce the  staff of the general administration by 18 posts for  each year. As the Introduction to the document  before you clearly shows, the budgetary levels de-  fined by the priorities apply to the budget as a  whole, and not to this or that section of it. When  I say that A. 1 represents stabilization, I am spea-  king in general terms and am not referring to de-  tails, where there will naturally be found plus or  minus differences by comparison with 1952 - dif-  ferences which in the end cancel one another out.  And if we go into details, I think that the work  plans and the budget estimates attached to them  fully explain the few supplementary posts which I  think necessary for the execution of the proposed  programme.
(63) Journeys undertaken by members of the Sec-  retariat engaged the prolonged attention of the  Committee, which - without, however, giving any  figures - was of the opinion that it would be pos-  sible to effect further savings in this direction,  although the credits requested under Priority A. 1  are more than $100, 000 lower than they were in
1952. In this connexion, the Committee has of-  fered certain suggestions for "administrative co-  ordination'. In so far as such co-ordination is a  question of administrative arrangements only, I  think I may say that it exists already. But is that  really all that is meant? Is not the execution of  the programme itself at stake? For instance, the  Committee suggests that some of the meetings it  is proposed to hold in the Middle East in 1953 and  PLENARY MEETINGS
1954 should be arranged "'near to one another in  time and place'. I wonder whether that is pos-  sible, and even if it is expedient? I wonder, above  all, if the suggestion does not represent an ex-  clusively budgetary standpoint?
(64) Similarly, the Committee has expressed the  wish that we should take advantage of a journey  made by any member of the staff to charge him with  several missions, even concerning matters outside  his own particular field. No doubt there are some  cases when several missions of a general charac-  ter can be carried out by the same person. That  is already being done, and I shall see to it that  this practice is extended as far as possible. But  the projects which make up the programme are  often very specialized, and the Secretariat is es-  sentially a Secretariat of specialists. In these  circumstances, I fear that, in order to effect  rather insignificant savings, we should be com-  promising the execution of the programme if the  recommendations of the Budget Committee were  to become the rule, that is to say if, for instance,  we were to entrust to a specialist in the Natural  Sciences a mission having to do with fundamental  education, or if a radio specialist wereto be asked  to deal with a question relating to the protection of  historic monuments. In the circumstances, the  programme should come first.
(65) Going on to deal with seminars, the Com-  mittee recommends that the budget estimates  should be drawn up on the supposition that every  seminar will use only two working languages. Is  not that again a programme matter ?
(66) The Committee has, moreover, questioned  the need for certain subventions and has expressed  doubts whether the sums granted for certain others  are justified. I wonder whether this view does not  spring from purely budgetary considerations? In  more general terms, the Committee declares that  the policy at present being carried out, of gra-  dually reducing the amount of the subventions  granted to particular organizations, should be pur-  sued with more vigour. It seems to me, however,  judging by the general debate, that a large number  ‘of delegations are in favour of these subventions  in principle and want them to be maintained.
(67) As for publications, the Committee suggests  that certain directories which have to -be published  in successive editions for several years, should  appear - if the text permits - one year in French,  the next year in English, and later, in certain  instances, in Spanish, instead of being published  simultaneously in two or three languages. It has  been a basic principle of Unesco till now that every  publication should appear at least in two of the  working languages of the Organization. The Pro-  gramme Commission will, I am sure, want to ex-  amine this question attentively before adopting  another line of action. :
(68) After these general considerations, the Re-  port of the Budget Committee contains some ob-  servations dealing particularly with certain points  - 176 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  of Parts I, II, III and IV of the Budget. This is  not the moment for me to go into explanations on  this subject. I shall confine myself to saying that  most of the observations in fact imply a criticism  of the way in which the programme is being car-  ried out; I mean, of the work plans which the Pro-  gramme and Budget Commission will have to dis-  cuss. It is therefore for this Commission, in  each separate case, that I reserve the views I  shall put forward on behalf of the Secretariat.
(69) As regards the Administrative Commission,  I should like to express my gratitude for the way  in which, under the able Chairmanship of Dr.  Luther Evans, it has studied the complicated prob-  lems raised by the financing of the budget. I am  particularly grateful to the Commission for having  drawn up for your consideration a draft resolution,  the text of which, in every paragraph, clarifies  the question you have to answer. Every delegation  will therefore be able to decide on full knowledge  of the facts.
(70) For my part, I have only to point out that, as  the estimate of the contributions which will proba-  bly not be recoverable has been raised by the  Commission from 7.8 per cent - the figure ad-  hered to in the draft Budget - to 9. 2 per cent, the  total of Priorities B corresponding to this percen-  tage should be augmented to the same amount.  Thus, taking this rectification into account, if the  Budget which the Executive Board and myself have  the honour to propose to you is to be adopted, the  General Conference must vote the following figures  in the resolution submitted to you:  in paragraph 1 (maximum assessment level):  $20,439, 104  in paragraph 2 (gross budget level): $ 20, 961, 458  in paragraph 3 (spending budget level, i.e. real  budget for Priorities A.1 plus À. 2): $19,081, 060
(71) Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, it now  remains only for me to ask you that you should  give Unesco your conscientious support as enthu-  siastic advocates of education, science and cul-  ture. The Chairman of the Executive Board has  recommended to you, in the name of the Board, a  budget which perhaps shows an increase on that of  last year, but an increase, as I have given figures  to show, within reasonable limits. In my turn I  ask you to follow his recommendation. In every  way Unesco deserves that you should accept it: by  the far-reaching obligations which its Constitution  places upon it, by the worth of its programme, and  by the hopes which have been raised in many coun-  tries as a result of achievements that, even at this  stage, are not negligible.
(72) I know that we live in hard times. The sac-  rifices demanded by a policy of collective security  weigh extremely heavily on many States. But  should we not look beyond the immediate horizon?
(73) I cannot pretend that I shall not follow your  discussions with the most intense interest. They  will show me what you think about the present and  future of an Organization to which, for four years,
11-14  I have devoted all my strength and all my faith.
(74) I thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for the  way in which you have listened to my remarks and  explanations. I trust that, beneath the dry figures,  you have been able to divine a deep regard for the  part Unesco might play in the fate of humanity in  the twentieth century. I am full of hope that the  same sentiment will inspire the decisions you are  about to make.  DISCUSSION OF THE PROPOSED PROGRAMME AND  BUDGET ESTIMATES FOR 1953-1954.
(75) The PRESIDENT - The delegations are at  liberty to speak now. I call upon Sir Ben Bowen  Thomas of the United Kingdom delegation.
(76) Mr. Yuan-ning WEN (China) - Mr. Presi-  dent and colleagues, I wish to raise a point of  order. I wonder whether it would be possible to  discuss paragraph 3 of the suggested resolution  first.
(77) The PRESIDENT - We will discuss all three,  including paragraph 3.
(78) Mr. Yuan-ning WEN (China) - Yes, but what  “I suggest is that this paragraph should be dis-  cussed first, since it can be easily disposed of.
(79) The PRESIDENT - Paragraph 3 says that  contributions which may not be receivable will be
9.2 per cent. May I suggest that you speak on it  in the course of the general discussion?
(80) Mr. Yuan-ning WEN (China) -  well. I agree.  Yes, very
(81) The PRESIDENT - I now call upon Sir Ben  Bowen Thomas.
(82) Sir Ben Bowen THOMAS (United Kingdom) -  Mr. President and fellow delegates, I am sure  that all of us who participate in this discussion  will feel a heavy sense of responsibility after lis-  tening to the introduction by the Chairman of the  Executive Board and the impressive statement  that the Director-General has just made.
(83) May I make two preliminary observations ?  When the leader of the United Kingdom delegation  addressed this assembly a week ago, she attempted  to place the work of Unesco against = wide back-  ground, and to remind us of the economic difficul-  ties of our times. She referred to the United  Nations, the Specialized Agencies, Technical  Assistance, colonial development, the Colombo  Plan, etc., and, above all, to the range and vo-  lume of truly international activity in which all of  us, as Member States, are involved - all this in  addition to our loyal participation in Unesco's own  work. She did this in order to establish the fact  "177 -   I[-14  that the United Kingdom, like other Member States,  has faith in the purposes of Unesco and expresses  that faith in terms of works and finance, in terms  of deeds and money.
(84) My Minister also went on to say that the Uni-  ted Kingdom was engaged in the grim and unrelen-  ting task of establishing our country's economy,  and that an inescapable part of this task was the  strictest supervision of all public expenditure.  She has been responsible, and is now responsible,  for maintaining the public expenditure on education  in our country at the lowest level consistent with  the maintenance of its essential fabric. No frills  and no flowers - no mean sacrifice for a lady.
(85) My second general observation is this. Mem-  ber States come to the work of Unesco with at  least two different approaches. The first is what  one may describe as the predominantly organic  approach. It leads us to think of Unesco in terms  of a living organism, an attitude which, when it is  in the ascendant, evokes the generous sentiments  of sympathy and affection which we feel, some-  times uncritically, morally bound to proffer to a  young life. The second approach to Unesco is a  far more prosaic one, but none the less sound and  sincere for that reason. It regards Unesco as an  institution supplementary to those already exis-  ting among Member States, the non-governmental  organizations and the many other international  agencies to which the leader of my delegation re-  ferred in her speech. Although supplementary in  character, Unesco is nevertheless a necessary,  indeed an indispensable, institution for the service  of men in its own special field. This approach is,  I agree, a humdrum one; if not understood, it can  be represented as unsympathetic. This would be  a mistake. It represents the vigilant quest for  economical and efficient machinery and methods,  a quest with which the United Kingdom and other  Member States have been consistently identified  over the years.
(86) The United Kingdom delegation must again  this year abjure the predominantly organic ap-  proach to Unesco. Its members come to their task  in this Conference generally, and to this important  subject, as a representative group of their fellow  countrymen - as faithful, reliable, high-prin-  cipled and loyal technicians, experts if you like,  eager to do their valuable job, Having regard to  the general considerations that I have mentioned,  and after the most careful examination, extending  over two months, of the programme and budget  submitted to this Conference (a task in which it  has had the advantage of the assistance of a large  number of the devoted fellow members of our Na-  tional Commission) the United Kingdom will pro-  pose for each of the years 1953 and 1954 the same -  total figure or ‘budget ceiling as that voted last  year; namely, not more than $8,700,000, or  $17,400, 000 for the two years.
(87) We are not unmindful of the consequences of  the adoption of such a ceiling upon the draft pro-  ‘terms of document 7C/ADM/ 39,  PLENARY MEETINGS  gramme placed before us after so much labour on  the part of the Director-General'and his Secreta-  riat. Some projects would have to be dropped. We  regret this, but our regret is tempered by the  knowledge that the programme, in our view, is  overloaded,
(88) I say "overloaded" mainly in the name of the  National Commissions, a point which was implicit  in the latter part of the speech of the distinguished  leader of the United States delegation towards the  end of the discussion of the Director-General's  Report on Monday morning last. Our National  Commissions - and they are the living cells of the  world community, not this General Conference or  its Administrative Commission or its Programme  Commission - are being unduly strained when they  conscientiously assume their responsibilities for  implementing their part of the programme; they  are being asked to struggle too much in too many  directions within too short a space of time. They  need spaciousness and time to breathe; then they  can improve their own organization and concen-  trate effectively on their major tasks of co-opera-  tion with one another and of powerfully influencing  opinion in their respective countries. Education  for international understanding, examination of  textbooks, the distribution of Unesco publications,  the organization of conferences, seminars and ex-  hibitions - these and many others are enterprises  demanding the sustained and intelligent pressure  that can only come from groups operating within  the effective limits of their strength.
(89) I desist from further details, and merely say  that the United Kingdom delegation, whatever the  agreed ceiling may be - and we hope it will be  $8, 700, 000 each year, or $17, 400, 000 for the two  years - will take a stringent, functional and ad-  ministrative approach to its examination of the  matters to be discussed by the Programme and  Administrative Commissions and their working  parties. In discharging their duty, they will defer  to no Member State in their confidence in the Dir-  ector-General and his staff, and in their admira-  tion for the skill and devotion which they bring to  the work.
(90) I wonder whether, in order to provide a basis  for our discussion at this stage, but not in con-  clusion, I might submit the following resolution in  so lucidly intro-  duced by the Chairman of the Administrative Com-  mission at an earlier stage in our deliberations.  I would limit myself to the first part of that reso-  lution, and in the name of the United Kingdom  delegation would therefore move that:  The General Conference resolves that:
1. The maximum assessment level required to  finance the provisional budget shown in paragraph
2. In view of the fact that $522,354 are avail-  able as non-budgetary income, the provisional  gross budget level for the two-year period 1953-
1954 is $17, 900, 000 (or thereabouts).  - 178 -   PLENARY
3. Since it is anticipated that the contributions  which may not be receivable in respect of 1953-
1954 will be 9. 2 per cent, the provisional spending  budget level is $16, 300, 000."
(91) Fellow delegates, let none of us vote lightly  in giving the serious decision which we are called  upon to make today. The budget total of $8,700,000  a year, which I propose in the name of my delega-  tion, means that the support of Her Majesty's  Government in the United Kingdom for Unesco will  not willingly be given to Unesco activities costing  more than $8, 700, 000.
(92) The Director-General has called for our sup-  port for a much higher figure, as an act of faith  demanding sacrifices. I would plead with him and  with you not to make too great demands upon that  faith. It takes time to nurture an enlightened faith  in a new international organization, one amongst  many others for each of which my country is now  paying a million dollars a year. We have not yet  won sufficient support for Unesco in the United  Kingdom to justify a greater contribution; how can  we expect to win greater support for Unesco if  next year we are required to pay still more? That  surely is not the way to make a new international  organization more acceptable. It is hard to say  this, and I know that it seems, to people who have  worked and toiled, unfair. In a better world - the  world Unesco is hoping to help toform - the situa-  tion will no doubt be different. Today we live  under different conditions, where many countries  cannot afford to increase their annual contribu-  tions to Unesco. Indeed, they would like instead  to see these contributions decreased somewhat.  Is that unreasonable? Unesco will not be an in-  effective and impoverished Organization, even  with $8, 000, 000 a year to spend - far from it. A  great deal of very valuable and useful work can be  done, by careful planning, with such a sum.
(93) Ladies and gentlemen, in the light of what we  have already heard during this session, I know  that I speak for more countries than the United  Kingdom in giving solemn warning of the serious  danger facing Unesco, if an attempt is again made  to drive their governments to contribute more  money than they believe the situation really war-  rants. They may in self-protection be forced to  look for ways of relief which would certainly not  advance the work which we wish to fos I say  this with a full sense of responsibility, in all ear-  nestness and in all seriousness; and I speak for a  country which nobody can accuse of indifference to  Unesco or to the cause for which Unesco stands.
(94) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of the  United Kingdom and call upon the delegate of Swit-  zerland.
(95) Mr. Pierre BOURGEOIS (Switzerland) -  (Translation from the French) Mr. President, la-  dies and gentlemen, fellow delegates, during the  discussion on the 1953-1954 programme, the Swiss  MEETINGS 11-14  delegation expressed the opinion that that pro-  gramme made provision for all that was needed  for the stability and for a minimum well-balanced  development of Unesco's activities.
(96) You heard what I said yesterday concerning  the meeting place of our next Conference. You  know then that for us the only substantial economy  that can be decided in advance is to abandon, how-  ever regrettable it may be, the choice of Montevi-  deo for the Eighth Session. In that way there  would be a definite saving of time and money - and  for Unesco time is money. The Conference has in  advance rejected that solution, which seemed to us  a reasonable one. I will not hide from you the  fact that in reality I was glad, for in life the heart  often rejoices when reason has failed to win the  day.
(97) A fresh examination of the programme might  perhaps enable us to discover whether there are  any other possible economies. Our delegation has  decided to study it very carefully in association  with the other delegations in order to see whether  we cannot, confidently and reasonably, reach a  different opinion on the urgency or necessity of  one project or another. Here I would like to pay  tribute to the spirit in which the Director-General  and the Executive Board have produced a pro-  gramme which in their view represented the barest  minimum, and, at the same time, to the spirit by  which those delegations were imbued which have  so far indicated their stand on these questions.  That spirit clearly shows that there is no wish to  undermine the fcundations on which Unesco rests.  In particular, I am thinking of the speech made  yesterday by the French delegate. But the Swiss  delegation feels that, to be a logical operation  performed with complete independence of judg-  ment, the examination of the programme should  precede the inevitably arbitrary fixing of a budget  ceiling at a figure somewhat below that requested  by the Director-General. If the General Confer-  ence wishes that ceiling to be fixed "a priori", it  will then preclude any methodical examination of  the programme.
(98) Yesterday you made your decision to go to  Montevideo, because you felt morally obliged to  do so. Do not, however, forget that, in the case  of the programme - and therefore of the budget - we  have a much more serious moral obligation, a  much more inviolable obligation, not only towards  one couniry, but towards every country and, do  not forget this either, not only towards every  country, but towards all generations to come. We  are responsible for handing on to them a better  world than we ourselves inherited. I think that, in  discussing Unesco's programme and budget, the  time has come not to hearken merely to the nar-  row arguments of reason and a short-term policy;  now or never is the time to listen to our hearts as  well as to our heads. The Swiss delegation, there-  fore, proposes to vote for the programme and  budget estimates for 1953-1954 presented by the  =#179 -   II-14  Director-General in document 76/5, approved by  the Executive Boar l and rectified, with regard to  the appropriation for the priority B figure, in  accordance with the Administrative Commission's  recommendations.
(99) The Swiss delegation then has the honour to  propose to you the following figures, that is to say,  those given you by the Director-General, which I  will now repeat.  In paragraph (1) $20,439,104  In paragraph (2) $20,961,458  In paragraph (3) (provisional  spending budget level) $19,081,060
(100) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Switzerland and now call upon the delegate of the  Netherlands.
(101) Mr. H. R. KRUYT (Netherlands) - Mr.  President, in previous years the delegation of the  Netherlands has had to express misgivings about  increases in the budget. But this year, I am in  the happy position of being able to give you the  support of my Government and of my delegation,  and we are absolutely convinced that we have to  make more efforts for Unesco. Therefore, after  having heard the report of the Director-General  about what has happened since last year, and after  having taken note of the programme and budget as  presented in document 7C/5, we feel sure that all  that is asked for the points on page 8, A.1 and  B.1, should be accepted as items absolutely ne-  cessary for the proper continuation of Unesco.
(102) As for points A.2 and B. 2, we are not quite  certain. Of course, all these more or less new  points should be considered on their own merits.  But, as we have now to take a decision regarding  the ceiling, we cannot now examine the points  under A.2 or B.2 on their effectiveness or con-  sider whether they should necessarily be started  in 1953 and 1954; but to show our complete con-  fidence in the Director-General and the Executive  Board, the way in which Unesco has been governed  during the last year, and the way in which the po-  licy for the next year is presented, we want to  give our support to items A.1 and B.1, and are  prepared to give our support to some of the pro-  jects under A. 2 and B. 2.
(103) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  the Netherlands and call upon the delegate of India.
(104) Mr. H. S. MALIK (India) - Mr. President,  my remarks will be very brief, I said in my state-  ment during the general discussion of the Director-  General's Report that, when it comes to an invest-  ment for peace, there should be no ceiling to that  investment. Our delegation here stands by that  statement. We feel that the work of Unesco is of  such a vital nature that our approach to the question  of financial provision for that work should be one  of vision and imagination and not too cautious.  PLENARY MEETINGS
(105) I am impressed by the arguments put for-  ward by the distinguished delegate of the United  Kingdom, arguments in favour of progressing  slowly and cautiously. There are times when that  kind of approach is adequate; but, as his country  has so often shown, there are times also for bold  advance, and I appeal to him that this is the time,  not for a cautious approach, but for a bold ad-  vance.
(106) I respectfully submit that our approach to  the whole question of financial provision for the  work of Unesco should cover two points. First,  we must realize that the target at which Unesco is  aiming is nothing less than the sky itself. It is  true that Unesco must have its feet solidly fixed  on the ground in aiming at and working for that  target, but let us be quite clear that the target it-  self be nothing short of the sky. In other words,  there is no limit. Secondly, and also very impor-  tant from the practical point of view, our pro-  gramme and the projects covered by «hat pro-  gramme must be submitted to the closest possible  scrutiny to ensure that every economy consistent  with efficiency is carried out in the impler ‘enta-  tion of that programme.
(107) I was very much impressed by the eloquence  of the appeal made by the Director-General. I was  impressed by the figures that he gave, and by the  fact that the provisions for 1952-53 and 1953-54  for the development of the work of Unesco repre-  sent an advance of no more than 7.8 per cent over  the contribution of the previous year. I was im-  pressed by his argument against our allowing  Unesco to become stabilized. This instiution  must be dynamic; it must go forward; it cannot  stand still.
(108) I was heartened and encouraged by the ap-  proach to this question of the distinguished dele-  gate of Switzerland. Switzerland is a little coun-  try in size, but a great country in many ways. It  has achieved for its peoples standards of living  and development of which it is rightly proud, and  it is heartening to see that a country which has  achieved all that for itself seesthe great necessity  for Unesco work being done, so that other coun-  tries and other regions may, some time or other,  achieve a similar status and similar conditions.  I have great pleasure in supporting strongly the  proposal made by our Swiss colleague, endorsing  the suggestion that the figures put forward by the  Director-General and the Executive Board be ap-  proved.
(109) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegatc of  India and call upon Mr. Moses of Australia.
(110) Mr. Charles J. A. MOSES (Australia) - Mr.  President, ladies and gentlemen, I was not quite  prepared to speak so soon, so if I hesitate you will  know that I had no chance of reading my notes. If  my appearances before this distinguished gather-  ing have, on occasions, been marked by some  - 180 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  blunt speech, it is not because I spurn the use of  diplomatic language; it is because I have not been  trained in the niceties and courtesies of verbal  exchanges in international gatherings. I would be  happy indeed if Thad the eloquence and the histrionic  talents of the honourable Chairman of the Execu-  tive Board, or his ability to couch hard facts in  soft words. I do not have those talents. This is  my first appearance at a meeting where we have  the nations of the world together; perhaps in this  situation I may offer myself as the number-one  pupil for the first course in Education for Living  in a World Community. So, I ask you, when I  speak, to overlook my bluntness but accept my  sincerity. I say what I believe to be in the very  best interests of Unesco. For this Organization  my admiration is second to none, and my belief in  its future is as strong as that of any one of you.
(111) Now, to look at this budget. Australia is  forced, by the reality of hard facts, to align it-  self with the delegation of the United Kingdom -  and I might say that we do not always do that. In  fact, we did not yesterday, on two occasions; but  we cannot help it on this occasion. We are con-  vinced that expenditure can be maintained at the  present level without any reduction of our effec-  tive work or the standard of our work, and that  this can be done and the Conference still held in  Montevideo. I myself am delighted to think that  the session is to be held there, because it is a  good thing to show the flag. I had my doubts as  to whether we could afford it, but now that I have  seen the report of the Budget Committee I am sat-  isfied that we can afford it and do our work with-  out this tremendous increase of expenditure and  of the contributions of the countries concerned.
(112) In his very able address, the Chairman of  the Executive Board drew attention to the fact, or  what he stated to be the fact, that in the Introduc-  tion to the Proposed Programme and Budget Esti-  mates Priorities A.1 and B.1 are said to repre-  sent merely the maintenance of Unesco's activities  at their present level, and that that level is lower  than the level approved for 1952 at last year's  session of the General Conference. The Introduc-  tion states that the reason for the reduction of  activities is the increase in the cost of living.  Now, I do not pretend to understand the methods  by which this fact was deduced, but is it not a fact  that the cost-of-living index here in Paris, where  Unesco's office is located, is actually lower than  last year? Therefore, the Director-General and  the Chairman of the Executive Board are in con-  flict with the appropriate local authority on this  matter of the variation in tke cost of living. How-  ever, if we assume that the expert is wrong and  the statement in the Introduction is right, then we  can understand why there should be a reduction in  Unesco's activities. What we cannot understand -  and I turn back to what I said in my statement on  the Report the other day - is this: if there is a  reduction in the work of the staff, why should the
11-14  staff have been markedly increased during the past  year? Perhaps the gentlemen who have spoken  can explain, not only why there was an increase in  staff during the past year, with a reduction in  work, but also why it is proposed that there shall  be an increase in 1953 and a further increase in
1954 merely to maintain present-day activities,  which are actually. lower than they were in 1951 ?
(113) These proposed increases in staff are not  products of my imagination. The Budget Commit-  tee, comprised of our representatives, made a  careful study of the budget, and this is what they  said: "The Committee therefore viewed with grave  concern the proposal to have for Priority À.1 in
1953 and 1954 respectively six and eight more es-  tablished posts than in 1952, in order to carry out  a programme rather less than that envisaged for
1952. This is the more serious when it is consi-  dered that, during the next two years, rising costs  may well, as they did in 1952, reduce the sche-  duled activities of the programme. Because of the  budgetary consequences of these staffing proposals  the Committee wished to record its opinion that  the justification for the increase in the number of  established posts shown in the Proposed Pro-  gramme and Budget was insufficient. à
(114) To turn from these extraordinary contra-  dictions in the Introduction, which I mentioned the  other day and which have not been explained by  either the Director-General himself or the Chair-  man of the Executive Board - this reduction in  activities and increase in the number of people to  perform them - to turn from these to other mat-  ters. The Budget Committee, as you are all aware,  can only scratch the surface of a budget and can  only point out the things that are obvious to them  from the figures placed before them. In spite of  this, they have clearly pointed the way to many  important economies, which can help to effect re-  ductions in the estimates even for Priorities A.1.  They are in such fields as staffing, to which I have  referred, subventions and contracts, publications,  and - I think savings in this field are obvious to  all of us here - travel costs, for which nearly  $750, 000 is proposed for next year, and, of that,  over $100,000 to take the Executive Board to  Montevideo. In the cost of seminars there can be  reductions, and also in a number of specific pro-  jects which are named in the excellent report of  the Budget Committee.
(115) This Budget Committee, ladies and gentle-  men, in spite of the Director-General's criticism  of its report, is not a hostile Committee seeking  to lower standards or reduce activities, or to  minimize the effectiveness of Unesco. The Com-  mittee is comprised of our colleagues, all of them  fervent believers in the work of Unesco.
(116) I now leave the question of economies, which  can be effected in so many directions, and turn to  reasons why our contributions should not be, and  cannot be, increased. Do not let us forget that we  are living in a world that is under a threat of war,  =#18L —
11-14  perhaps of self-destruction. Those countries  which are making the greatest contribution to  Unesco are the very same countries which are  today straining their own resources to provide  physical defences against the ever-present threat  of aggression. If they fail to make those defences  effective, all our talk about the future of Unesco  will be for nothing. Because these countries have  to strain their resources, can we be surprised if  they resent, and I mean resent, the ever-increas-  ing demands of Unesco at such a time? These  countries, including my own, are spending on de-  fence proportions of their natural resources such  as hitherto were never dreamed of in peace time.
(117) I am not unaware that the President-Elect  of the country which is providing one-third of the  total funds of Unesco has pledged a reduction, a  very big reduction, in his country's expenditure,  and particularly expenditure that touches interna-  tional matters. The proposed contribution to  Unesco by the United States of America - and I  hope the honourable members of the United States  delegation will not mind my referring to their  country, because I have had no discussion with  them - as recommended by the Chairman of the  Executive Board, is $3,361,000, an increase of  over half a million on this year. This is one field  in which the advisers of the President-Elect - and  they may not be so ready to spend money on inter-  national organizations as the present Government  of the United States - may well decide upon a re-  duction, if they are importuned too much by this  Organization.
(118) My own country, in comparison, pays very  little. This year we paid $162,000, and we are  asked to pay another $26,500, an increase of over
16 per cent. Yet our contribution is much higher  than that of the majority of Member States; only  eight States pay more than Australia. I think that  our contribution is larger by quite a considerable  amount than that paid by the State of which our  distinguished Chairman of the Executive Board is  a citizen. The Government of Australia, even  though we are far away from the scene of possible  hostilities, is spending a record percentage of our  revenue for peace time. Our Government has been  seeking ways of economizing for some time. I  know that our Treasurer will resent being asked  for more by Unesco at this time, at such a critical  period in the history of the world and of our own  country. He will consider that such a request is  unreal.
(119) It will be a different thing when the threats  of war have been dissipated. Let us not press too  hard those countries which are providing all but a  very small proportion of the revenue of Unesco.  Let us follow the advice of our Budget Committee  and insist on economies that will not affect the  real work of Unesco. Let us request the Director-  General to re-examine the staffing of the Organiz-  ation, and find out why a reduction in its work ne-  cessitates an increase in its staff. Let us, during  PLENARY MEETINGS  the coming week, look with a very critical eye at  any programme project that is really not worth  while, that is not truly a function of Unesco. This  is why I suggested that we should have working  parties to examine the priority of these programme  projects under each heading, working parties of  experts who would know what they were talking  about. If the financial situation was serious last  year it is far worse now than it was then, and in  view of the uncertainty of our future financial  situation, I think we must go very much more  carefully now than we did last year.
(120) Lest you think that Australia is not really  interested in things of the mind - and one or two  of you may think that, perhaps even from some of  the things I have said myself - I assure you that  we are doing more than most other Member States  to further the work of Unesco. We are spending  more money than we are contributing to this Orga-  nization on the work of our National Commission,  on fellowships and on all the work that is related  to Unesco; we are spending more money on these  things than we are on our fairly substantial direct  contribution. In other fields, Australia has shown  development. In the field of orchestral music, for  example, Australia has developed so quickly over  the last fifteen years that I think very few other  countries are as advanced as Australia. Because  we are a country very alive to things of the mind  as well as tomaterial things - wool is not our only  concern - I am sorry that we have to speak against  any suggestion that we should expand our activi-  ties.
(121) In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I hope  that, when you listen to the speeches that will be  given, and when you remember the very eloquent  ones you have heard already, you will take a rea-  listic view and will not be swayed by eloquence but  by facts.
(122) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Australia and now call upon the delegate of Nor-  way.
(123) Mr. Alf SOMMERFELT (Norway) - Mr.  President, fellow delegates, the Norwegian dele-  gation seconds the British proposal; and I am  happy to say that I am speaking also on behalf of  the Danish and Swedish delegations.
(124) The Norwegian Government did not give  these instructions because it is unwilling to in-  crease its support of an international organization.  Only a few days ago the Norwegian delegate to the  United Nations offered to increase Norway's con-  tribution, and the extra amount allocated to tech-  nical assistance, to which I referred in the general  debate, - represents more than thirty times Nor-  way's contribution to Unesco. If the three Scan-  dinavian Governments are unwilling to increase  Unesco's budget at present, it is because they  have the impression that the money they contribute  is not always spent in the right way: that is, too  - 182 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  much is devoted to purely administrative pur-  poses, and to less important projects.
(125) As I said in the general debate, these Gov-  ernments want a strong concentration on educa-  tional projects of importance to the less-developed  countries, and think that certain parts of Unesco's  work could be better carried out by the interna-  tional non-governmental organizations, that is, by  certain well-established organizations. We must  remember that several of them are much older  than Unesco, and there are in reality several who  would be able to do things more cheaply, and per-  haps more efficiently, than an international body  of civil servants can possibly do.
(126) I think that the Member States who wish a  higher budget would do better to use the extra  amounts they are willing to contribute in suppor-  ting their National Commissions and the interna-  tional non-governmental organizations. I think,  too, that if we adopt such a line of poliey, it will  not upset the balance of the programme. It is  merely a question of doing the same - or nearly  the same - work in another way, which will enable  us to reduce the ever-increasing size of the Sec-  retariat. I strongly urge that the working party  which will be set up to deal with future develop-  ment, and which will have the problem of how to  associate the international non-governmental orga-  nizations more closely with the work of the Secre-  tariat, will have that included in its terms of re-  ference.
(127) If the three Scandinavian Governments hold  these views, I should say it is not in the interests  of pure economy, but it is in the real interest of  Unesco, of its efficiency and of its high ideals.
(128) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Norway and call upon the delegate of Yugoslavia.
(129) Mr. Vladislav RIBNIKAR (Yugoslavia) -  (Translation from the French) Mr. President, I  wish to explain the position of the Yugoslav dele-  gation. In the discussion on the Report of the  Director-General we dwelt on two points:
(1) that the Yugoslav delegation accepted the  proposed programme as presented by the Execu-  tive Board and therefore accepted the correspon-  ding budget figures; and
(2) that it could not accept any curtailment of  Unesco's activities.
(130) Yugoslavia is a poor country; it is experi-  encing very great difficulty in meeting its interna-  tional obligations, but we believe that each Mem-  ber State of Unesco should do its utmost to enable  our Organization to develop and progress in a nor-  mal way.
(131) Two years ago, our Director-General, Mr.  Torres Bodet, visited Yugoslavia and I had the  honour and pleasure of being present during his  interview with Marshal Tito. I remember - and  he probably remembers too - some words spoken  by Marshal Tito during that conversation: "No  I-14  sacrifice can be too great for ‘developing and in-  creasing the cultural relations between the peoples  and helping towards their mutual understanding in  the interests of peace'. Those words have guided  the Yugoslav delegation in the attitude it has adop-  ted. Logically we ought to say that we accept the  figures suggested by the Director-General and  proposed by the Swiss delegation. Nevertheless,  I must now say in all sincerity that after certain  events which occurred in this room two or three  days ago I feel a little shaken in my convictions,  though not in my enthusiasm, nor in my faith in  Unesco's future. We of the Yugoslav delegation  have discussed this question at length, and have  decided, with common accord, that this time, con-  trary to custom, we will abstain from voting.
(132) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Yugoslavia and call upon the delegate of Indonesia.
(133) Mr, Anak AGUNG GDE AGUNG (Indonesia) -  Mr. President, since the creation of Unesco, we  have always been increasing our expenses, and I  think this increase in expenses is due to the fact  that every year Unesco expands its activities.  Seven years ago, when Unesco was established,  many of its activities had not been thought of; but  during its existence a great many events have  occurred which have made it necessary for Unesco  to expand its activities. This increase in budget  and expenses is not squandering money, but a sign  and a symbol that Unesco is increasing its activi-  ties. When a great deal of that money is used for  technical assistance, it is money used for the rea-  lization of Unesco's programme. Therefore, Mr.  President, although my Government has struggled  with many difficulties and has to spend large sums  of money for the reconstruction of the country,  and although our national budget is restricted -  and it is for this reason that my Government has  asked a great deal of assistance from Unesco - we  accept the burden and the sacrifices we are obliged  to make for Unesco. Despite these difficulties and  the lack of money in my country, my Government  supports the activities of Unesco, and we fully  agree with the proposals of the Director-General  concerning the budget.
(134) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Indonesia and call upon Mr. Sargeant of the United  States delegation.
(135) Mr. Howland H. SARGEANT (United States  of America) - Mr. President, fellow delegates, in  all the sessions of the General Conference I have  attended there has come a point when the question  of the budget ceiling became the crux of all our  deliberations and I am very sensitive to the re-  marks made by the Director-General in his very  eloquent presentation. In this atmosphere of  emergency and crisis that we always generate  around this all-important problem of the budget  - 183 -   II-14  ceiling, we give rise tn those latent feelings of  frustration and grievance that the Director -General  talked about.
(136) It is no secret to any of you that my delega-  tion has consistently held that it is not a very good  idea to set the figures by which we shall be bound  for another year - or in this case two years -  before we have looked at the projects in the pro-  gramme; and consistently, you, fellow delegates,  have disagreed with me, and I have willingly and  happily consented to go along with the will of the  majority. I am doing this now, but we in the Uni-  ted States delegation still find it a matter of ex-  treme difficulty to talk about the merits and de-  merits of a programme which we have not yet  examined. Therefore, in the remarks I am about  to make, I am going to consider primarily the only  thing that my delegation thinks we can consider at  this point, since we have not yet examined or de-  bated the programme: what are Member States  willing to contribute ?
(137) I said on an earlier occasion in this session  that, during the period we are meeting here in  Paris, we, the delegates of 68 governments and  peoples, are Unesco. We speak for Unesco, and  therefore have a special kind of responsibility in  this body which is to become the deriocratie com-  munity in which the wills of our governments and  of our peoples are expressed. We are not here  to rubber-stamp a programme of the Executive  Board - although I must say in all honesty that we  feel the Executive Board and the Director-General  have given us the most comprehensive and most  understandable document that we have ever had;  and if I disagree with any of the conclusions rea-  ched by the Director-General and the Executive  Board, I do not wish you to feel that I am disa-  greeing because of lack of confidence, lack of faith  or lack of appreciation of what, my delegation be-  lieves, have indeed been the distinguished and dif-  ficult services rendered both by our Executive  Board and by our Director-General.
(138) Having made these remarks, I must say that  it seems to the delegation of the United States that  we have to support the recommendations made by  the United Kingdom for maintaining the assess-  ment level for 1953 and 1954 at the same level as  for 1952; this means for the two-year period an  assessment level of $17,436, 000, as embodied in  the motion put forward by the leader of the United  Kingdom delegation. I want to explain quite clearly  why my Government takes this position, and I think  it is a fairly simple,  The budget proposed by the Director-General and  the Executive Board is mainly designed to in-  crease the assessment on Member States in good  financial standing so as to make it possible to  raise sufficient cash to maintain the programme  at least at its present level, in spite of the grow-  ing arrears in contributions of some Member  States. My Government cannot support this prac-  tice. We think it will eventually undermine what  straightforward explanation. .  PLENARY MEETINGS  we believe to be true international co-operation.  We are not talking about the merit or lack of merit  of the programme. The question is: is it a sound  policy in an international organization to raise  assessments as a means of producing a certain  budgetary level, in spite of the arrears? What is  the effect when we make this one-way attempt to  assess Members in good financial standing a grea-  ter amount, to make up for the contributions that  are not paid by other Members? All we are doing  is to force Member States already in arrears to  go further into debt, and I think we may eventually  jeopardize our goal of universal membership. I  do not think that you want this to happen, nor do  we want it to happen.
(139) This does not mean that Unesco's prog-  ramme, in the opinion of my delegation, should  remain static - and I think that this word "stabi-  lization" is not a very happy word. "Stabilization"  has been defined as indicating a kind of decay or  retrogression, but we believe it is possible and,  in fact, desirable to contribute to the advancement  of Unesco's prog..mme by means other than an  increase in the funds for the Unesco Secretariat.  I say- again that Unesco is neither this General  Conference nor the Secretariat led by our distin-  guished Director-General here in Paris. Unesco  is at home in our countries and, if we had to make  a choice as to how the growth of Unesco can best  continue, we should say: "Maintain the level of  activity that we have now in the Secretariat in  Paris, and if any Member State is able to make  other contributions, let that Member State exa-  mine where those contributions can most effec-  tively be made'. On the basis of many conversa-  tions that I have had with my fellow delegates  since I have been at this Conference I submit that  resources are needed at home so that this surfeit  of international resolutions - as the Director-  General himself has styled them - shall not be-  come a mere jumble of words, but shall, in fact,  be carried into action in our own communities.  Therefore I cannot accept, and I ask that you dele-  gates to this General Conference do not accept, as  the sole criterion of whether Unesco is a living,  growing organism the index of how many posts  shall be established in the Secretariat in Paris.  We cannot accept it as a criterion, and we do not  think it realistic.
(140) My delegation also believes that there are  other ways in which Unesco's objectives can be  advanced than by this thoroughly undesirable me-  thod of assessing Members in good financial stan-  ding to make up for those who are in arrears. I  have already referred to the Technical Assistance  Programme, in which Unesco has taken such an  active and leading part. Unesco's expenditure  under this programme has increased from a little  less than one million dollars in 1950 to $3,500,000  this vear, and our hope is that it will increase to  the full level proposed in the Budget Estimates,  $5,500, 000, for next year. Is this static? Is  - 184 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  this stabilization? Is this decay, to increase by  $2,000,000 one of the most important programmes,  in the judgment of my delegation, that Unesco has  to offer to this world today? I do not think so.  Moieover, as Mr. Malcolm Adiseshiah, our very  able Director of the Technical Assistance Depart-  ment, has said, the people who have considered  the Technical Assistance Programme of the Uni-  ted Nations think that further increases are pos-  sible here. I do not wish to disagree with our dis-  tinguished Director-General when he urges us to  keep quite clear the differences between the so-  called "normal" programme and such programmes  as that of technical assistance. My delegation has  welcomed the establishment of the working party  which you agreed to set up to decide which parts  of the regular programme of Unesco are in fact  intimately and closely linked to the technical  assistance service itself; and those seven prior-  ity areas which were determined by the approp-  riate United Nations authorities to be within the  scope of Unesco's activities coincide almost ex-  actly with the main areas of concentration in many  of Unesco's regular programmes.
(141) Contributions to the technical assistance  programme can be made by Member States on a  voluntary basis. If a nation chooses to contribute  to that technical assistance fund, we impose no  obligation on other Member States which may feel  that they are unable to make a contribution. This  does not put further into debt Member States that  are already in arrears and does not place before  some other State which may wish to become a  Member the rather frightening propsect of amoun-  ting financial responsibility that they would have  to assume. This does not jeopardize the univer-  sality of Unesco's membership.
(142) There are other projects of this kind which  could possibly be supported outside the regular  budget: These would include the Institutes in  Germany and such projects as the International  Computation Centre. Despite lack of success up  to the present, other kinds of voluntary contribu-  tions could be found to help to carry out Unesco's  programme objectives in major projects of this  kind.
(143) I must return to a matter upon which I feel  very deeply. A large and essential part of Unesco's  programme is actually being carried out at the  national level. After all, each one of us here has  assumed some ‘ responsibility towards Unesco's  programme, which cannot be carried out by the  Secretariat alone and which is financed by us  through the budget we are considering. Our res-  ponsibility entails action on the part of the govern-  ments we represent and on the part of our National  Commissions. This creates demands on our fin-  ancial resources that cannot and should not be  overlooked. As has been said so often during this  session of the General Conference, the success of  the programme to which we are all dedicated de-  pends on what we, as Member States, are pre-
11-14  pared to do to translate the work done here into  work at home, to translate the research that we  may stimulate into a reality at home. If we do not  leave this General Conference with a feeling that  we have made adequate provision, not only for the  Secretariat in Paris, but also for the require-  ments of our governments, our co-operating in-  ternational organizations and our national, private  organizations at home, I submit that we have  failed in our task. We may have voted the budget  that is asked, we may have crossed every ''t" and  dotted every "i", we may have approved the sub-  mission, but we shall have completely and abjec-  tly failed in the major task which drew us here.
(144) I should like to be quite sure that my re-  marks are not misinterpreted. The programme  and budget presented by the Director-General and  the Chairman of the Executive Board explicitly  carry this warning, in paragraph 11 of the Intro-  duction: "To guide them in arriving at this total"  (the total which has been presented to us for ap-  proval this morning) "the Executive Board and the  Director-General made no attempt to divine the  intentions or the financial possibilities of Member  States. They merely tried to estimate the funds  required to ensure the continuity of the Organiza-  tion's work and its normal development". I there-  fore submit that the delegates meeting here have  the responsibility of carrying out that part of the  task which was not done by the Executive Board or  the Director-General. We have to divine the in-  tentions of our Member States. We have to ex-  amine their financial possibilities. Unless we do  this in the spirit of responsibility I have men-  tioned, I again will feel, as perhaps others will  also feel, that we have failed in the task for which  we came to Paris.
(145) I myself do not like the use of the term  "economy"; I am not a member of the Treasury  or the financial department of my Government.  Perhaps in your countries, as in mine, there is  occasionally some small element of friction be-  tween those of us who are regarded as the execu-  tors of programmes and those who are regarded  as the watch-dogs of the exchequer. Ihave always  objected to the use of "economy" to stifle a good  programme, and some of my very best projects  have occasionally been, if not stifled, at least  sabotaged by economy for economy's sake. These  are the tactics which were once eloquently des-  cribed in a session of the General Conference as  l'skinflint and cheese-paring tactics'. I am not  urging you to adopt skinflint and cheese-paring  tactics at this meeting. I submit that we are con-  fronted with something more than economy. We  have to make choices; speakers far more eloquent  than I have implored us occasionally to make the  hard choice. I believe we have to make the hard  choice in determining this budget level to find the  essential level of activities to be maintained here  in Paris and the essential contributions that we  must be prepared to make, over and beyond this,  - 185 -
11-14  in our own countries, in order to make a reality  of what has tended to be a "surfeit of international  resolutions".
(146) In conclusion, I can only support with the  utmost energy the eloquent presentation by the  delegate of the United Kingdom of the motion which  he has put forward to this General Conference. I  hope and believe that it will be adopted.
(147) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  the United States of America and call upon’ the  delegate of Pakistan. ;
(148) Mr. S. M. SHARIF (Pakistan) - Mr. Presi-  dent, my remarks will be very brief. I wish to  draw the attention of the General Conference to  the ideals of Unesco. The aim is to promote in-  ternational understanding, and I feel that it is ne-  cessary for us, in the first instance, to make a  serious attempt among ourselves to reach an  understanding and agreement in this Conference.
(149) The leader of the Swiss delegation made an  impassioned plea for maintaining the programme  presented by the Director-General and the Execu-  tive Board. I agree with him that Unesco should  not be static, that its budget should not be a stable  budget in the sense that there should be no in-  crease in that budget, but on the other hand the  programme of Unesco should be a developing pro-  gramme, which necessarily involves additional  finances. The leader of the United Kingdom dele-  gation made an equally impassioned plea for econ-  omy in Unesco's budget estimates. An increase  PLENARY MEETINGS  in Unesco's budget would involve a corresponding  increase in contributions from the Member States,  and he pointed out that his Government, and, he  believed, several other governments, were unable  to afford higher contributions in accordance with  their financial resources and their national re-  quirements. Mr. President, the difference be-  tween the budget of $17,000,000 suggested and  that of $20, 000, 000 asked for by the Director-  General is a substantial one. It is reasonable to  argue that higher contributions involved in a bud-  getary ceiling of $20, 000, 000 may well strain the  resources of some countries. I would therefore  suggest that this Conference should not make any  decision on the motion today, but that a prelimin-  ary effort should be made informally, between  leaders of the delegations, to reach mutual under-  standing. I hope that such consultations may lead  to a compromise which would provide the neces-  sary funds considered essential for the execution  of the programme without unduly straining the re-  sources or willingness of other Member States. I  would ask the leader of the United Kingdom dele-  gation to approach this problem with a sincere de-  sire to promote Unesco's effort, and I would ask  the others to give due consideration to the financial  limitations of Member States.
(150) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Pakistan.  The meeting rose at 12.50 p. m.  - 186 -