PLENARY MEETINGS  SECOND PLENARY MEETING  Wednesday, 12 November 1952, at 3.30 p.m.  President: Mr. HOWLAND SARGEANT (United States of America)  later: Dr. SARVEPALLI RADHAKRISHNAN (India)  CONTENTS  Message from the Council of Europe . . . . . . . . . 45  Report of the Credentials Committee . . 45  Adoption of the Revised Agenda (document 7/1 Rev. ) 46  Correction in the Report of the Credentials Committee 47  Adoption of the Revised Agenda oi alt 47  Establishment of the Nominations Committes ee 47  Report of the Nominations Committee and election ofthe  President and ten Vice-Presidents of the General  Conference 48  MESSAGE FROM THE COUNCIL OF EUROPE to along and fruitful period of official co-operation  and to joint endeavours in common fields of interest.
(1) The PRESIDENT - Fellow delegates, in open-  ing the meeting this afternoon, I wanted to report  to you that the Executive Board, at its Thirty-first  Session, approved the draft agreement between  Unesco and the Council of Europe which this Con-  ference, at its Sixth Session, in resolution 32. 2,  had instructed the Director-General to negotiate  with the Council's Secretariat. I understand that  formal signature of this agreement will follow  shortly, but I feel sure that delegates will agree  with me that we should regard it as having prac-  tical application at the present time. In these  circumstances I am very happy, on your behalf,  to welcome the delegation of the Council of Europe,  under the distinguished leadership of Mr. Struysken,  the Political Director of the Council's Secretariat,  and I am now going to call upon Mr. Crivon, the  Director of the Cultural Department, to say a few  words to us.
(2) Mr. R. CRIVON (Council of Europe) - I should  like, on behalf of the Secretariat of my Organiza-  tion, to say how extremely pleased we are at the  Council of Europe that the agreement with Unesco  is now to come into force. I should also like to  record here that this agreement translates into  fact the felicitous unofficial relations which have  existed between our two Organizations for some  three-and-a-half years, during which period the  Secretary-General of the Council of-Europe .has  received the most valuable aid from the Secreta-  riat of Unesco, particularly from a technical point  of view. We look forward in the Council of Europe
(3) The PRESIDENT - We are happy to haveheard  the remarks by the representative of the Council  of Europe. We look forward to having the delega-  tion in our midst and working with them during  this session of the General Conference,  REPORT OF THE CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE
(4) The PRESIDENT - I now call upon the Chair-  man of the Credentials Committee to present to us  the Committee's first report to the General Confe-  rence. I call upon the distinguished leader of the  delegation of Venezuela, Mr. Parra-Pérez.
(5) Mr. PARRA-PEREZ (Venezuela), Chairman  of the Credentials Committee - (Translation from  the French) The Committee, set up by the Seventh  Session of the General Conference of this Organ-  ization at its meeting on 12 November 1952, met  today, its members being representatives of Aus-  tralia, Belgium, Brazil, France, India, United  Kingdom, United States of America, Venezuela  and Yugoslavia. This Committee did methe honour  of electing me Chairman, and I address you in that  capacity. The Committee examined the credentials  of representatives of Member States submitted  to it by the Director-General of the Organization.  It decided, at this first meeting, that the delegates  of the following States were duly accredited, in  conformity with Rule 22 of the Rules of Procedure  of the General Conference, by instruments issued  IE   II-2  by either of the Head of the State, the Minister for  Foreign Affairs, or another Minister authorized  for that purpose by the Minister for Foreign  Affairs: Afghanistan, Australia, Cambodia, Cana-  da, China, Costa Rica, Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt,  El Salvador, France, German Federal Republic,  Greece, Haiti, Honduras, India, Japan, Laos, Leb-  anon, Liberia, Luxembourg, Mexico, Monaco,  Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway,  Peru, Philippines, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand,  United Kingdom, Viet-Nam, Yugoslavia, The Com-  mittee recommends that the delegations of these  Member States be authorized to take part in the  Seventh Session of the General Conference.
(6) Thedelegates of India and Yugoslavia objected  to the acceptance of the credentials presented by  the Chinese delegation. The Committee neverthe-  less decidedto propose that the General Conference  accept those credentials, which were issued by the  Government that had been represented at previous  sessions of the General Conference.
(7) In addition, credentials in the form of a letter,  telegram or other document, issued either by a  Minister other thanthe Minister for Foreign Affairs  and not authorized by him, or by the Heads of  diplomatie missions, or by senior officials of the  Ministry of Foreign Affairs, were submitted bythe  representatives of the following States: Austria,  Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, Burma, Ceylon, Colom-  bia, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Indonesia, Iran,  Irag, Israel, Italy, Jordan, Korea, Syria, Turkey,  Union of South Africa, United States of America,  Uruguay and Venezuela.
(8) The Committee suggests that the documents  received in this way should be regarded as provi-  sionally accrediting the representatives of these
22 countries, subject to later presentation by their  delegations of credentials in due form, and that  meanwhile the said delegations be admitted to parti-  cipation in the Seventh Session of the General Con-  ference.
(9) The Committee also examined the credentials  of observers representing the following States not  members of the Organization: Finland, Libya,  Spain, the Vatican, Finally, the Committee exa-  mined, the credentials of observers representing  the United Nations, the Organization of American  : States, and the Council of Europe. The Committee  recommends to the General Conference that these  observers be admitted.
(10) The PRESIDENT - Fellow delegates, you have  just heard the first report of the Credentials Com-  mittee. I thank the distinguished leader of the  Venezuelan delegation for this report, given to us  by him in his capacity as Chairman of the Creden-  tials Committee. Is there any delegate who wishes  to speak on the report of the Credentials Com-  mittee? I call upon the delegate of Colombia.
(11) Mr. GONZALEZ BARROS  (Translation from the Spanish)  (Colombia) -  Mr. President,  PLENARY MEETINGS  fellow delegates, I should like to explain simply  and very briefly that the Government of Colombia  issued a special decree appointing the Colombian  delegation to the Seventh Session of the General  Conference of Unesco; this decree was duly cabled  to the Secretariat. During the Conference, the  Colombian diplomatic mission in Paris will com-  municate the text of this decree officially.
(12) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Colombia for his remarks to this Conference.  Does any other delegate wish to speak on the Cre-  dentials Committee's report? If not, we shall  consider the report of the ‘Credentials Committee  adopted.  ADOPTION OF THE REVISED AGENDA
(13) The PRESIDENT - The next item to be con-  sidered this afternoon is the adoption of the Agenda  for the Seventh Session of the General Conference.  I call upon the Chairman of the Executive Board,  Mr. Paulo Carneiro, to present the revised agenda  to you.
(14) Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil), Chairman of the  Executive Board - (Translation from the French)  Mr. President, the Provisional Agenda of the  Seventh Session of the General Conference was  drawn up by the Executive Board at its Thirtieth  Session and communicated to Member States by  the Director-General on 15 June 1952. At its  Thirty-first Session, the Executive Boardprepared  the revised agenda, on the basis of that provision-  al agenda and of an additional item proposed by  two Member States; this revised agenda is before  you in document 7C/1 Rev.
(15) Since then, one of the Member States which  presented a draft amendment to the provisional  agenda has submitted a new text amending the  wording of the proposed modification included in  the revised agenda under item 8.2.1. This new  proposal was received from the Government of the  United States of America and the amended wording  submitted to you is as follows (I am reading the  letter sent to us by the United States Government):  "With reference to item 8.2.1 of the Provisional  Agenda, I hereby propose that the wording of the  item be changed from 'Appointment of a working  party on the establishment of priority! to 'Appoint-  ment of a working party on future programme and  development'. This change in wording would appear  desirable in order to avoid the erroneous impres-  sion that the proposed working party would consider  any changes in the programme for the years 1953  and 1954 or would enter upon any budgetary discus-  sions'. The Executive Board agreed to accept this  amended wording of item 8.2.1 of the revised  agenda. I have the honour, on behalf of the Board,  to submit this revised agenda to you for adoption.  - 46 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  CORRECTION IN THE REPORT OF THE CREDEN-  TIALS COMMITTEE
(16) The PRESIDENT - I thank the Chairman of the  Executive Board for his proposal. I should like to  interrupt long enough to call upon the Head of the  delegation of Venezuela, the Chairman of our Cre-  dentials Committee, to make one brief additional  statement.
(17) Mr. PARRA-PEREZ (Venezuela), Chairman  of the Credentials Committee - (Translated from  the French) As Chairman of the Credentials Com-  mittee, lowe an apology to the Pakistani delegation  for a slight oversight. This delegation's name is  missing from the first of our lists, though the  delegation is in fact duly accredited by a letter  from the Prime Minister of Pakistan. I apologize  for my oversight.
(18) The PRESIDENT - I thank the Chairman of  the Credentials Committee for giving us this infor-  mation with respect to the credentials of the  Pakistani delegation. If there is no objection, we  shall include this as being part of the regular re-  port of the Credentials Committee.  ADOPTION OF THE REVISED AGENDA
(19) The PRESIDENT - I now turn to the proposal  placed before you by the Chairman of the Executive  Board, the proposal for the adoption of the revised  agenda of the General Conference. Is there anyone  who wishes to speak on this proposal? If not, we  may consider that the Agenda, as put before youby  the Chairman of the Executive Board, is adopted.  ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE
(20) The PRESIDENT - We now come to our next  item of business, which is the establishment of the  Nominations Committee. ''The Nominations Com-  mittee shall consist of the Heads of all delegations  entitled to vote in the Conference" - I am reading  from Rule 29 of our Rules of Procedure - "The  Head of a delegation may designate another mem-  ber of his delegation to attend meetings and vote in  his place. The representative of each delegation  on the Committee may be assisted by another  member of his delegation. This Committee shall  elect its own Chairman". The Nominations Com-  mittee, according to Rule 30, has the following  functions: "On information received from the  Executive Board the Nominations Committee shall  determine and submit to the General Conference  the list of nominations for the posts of President  andten Vice-Presidents of the General Conference.  It may suggest for consideration by the commis-  sions, committees and subsidiary bodies of the  Conference the names of persons to serve as  II-2  chaïrmen, vice-chairmen and rapporteurs of these  bodies. The Nominations Committee shall also  submit to the Conference nominations for vacant  seats on the Executive Board". I read these  Rules to you, although I know that many of you are  familiar with them, so that we shall start with a  common understanding of the task of the Nomina-  tions Committee. Our first order of business is to  establish the Nominations Committee, which will  meet in this room. We shall adjourn the plenary  meeting here so that the Nominations Committee  may meet. After the Nominations Committee has  completed its deliberations and is prepared to re-  port, the plenary meeting will reconvene to  receive the report of the Chairman of the Nomina-  tions Committee. I now call upon the Chairman of  the Executive Board to give us his suggestions and  further information.
(21) Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil), Chairman of the  Executive Board - (Translation from the French)  Mr. President, the last session of the General  Conference of Unesco decided that, on information  received from the Executive Board, the Nomina -  tions Committee should determine and submit to  the General Conference the.list of nominations for  the posts of President and ten Vice-Presidents of  the General Conference (Rule 30.1 of the Rules of  Procedure of the General Conference).
(22) When the Executive Board set about this task,  it realized the difficulty of drawing up such a list  without simultaneously taking into account the posts  of the main Commissions and Committees which  also form part of the General Committee of the  Conference. The General Committee has a total of  eighteen posts: the President of the Conference,  the ten Vice-Presidents, and the Chairmen of the  Programme Commission, the Administrative Com-  mission, the Procedure Committee, the Committee  on Reports of Member States, the Budget Commit-  tee, the Nominations Committee andthe Credentials  Committee. The Executive Board thus had tobegin  by drawing up for its own use a general table,  bearing in mind the need for the fairest possible  geographical distribution and the fact that several  countries had never yet, and others had very sel-  dom, been represented on the General Committee  of the Conference. Thesetwo factors - geographical  distribution and the frequency with which Member  States had been represented on the General Com-  mittee - guided the Board in distributing, not only  the posts of President and Vice-Presidents of the  Conference according to the instructions issued by  the Conference at its last session, but also the  posts of Chairmen of Commissions and Commit-  tees. I am explaining this to you in order to justify  the recommendations we are making - though you  are naturally free to accept or refuse the names  put forward - and to justify ourselves for having  overstepped the precise terms of reference given  tous by the General Conference. We felt that in so  doing we would be better serving the interests that  = 47 -   II-2  the General Conference had in view. But once  again, it is merely as a suggestion that I am putting  forward, on behalf of the Board, proposals for the  posts included and for those notincluded in the re-  solution of the General Conference. - It is very  difficult to treat them separately, and I would im-  press upon you the difficulties we met with and the  impossibility of making any proposal giving com-  plete and absolute satisfaction toeach of the Mem-  ber States here present.
(23) With the permission of the President, I shall  first propose, for these eighteen posts, the candi-  date whom the Executive Board would consider  supporting for the Nominations Committee, so as  not to isolate this proposal from all the rest. I  ‘would remind you that two posts have already been  filled: that of Chairman of the Budget Committee,  which has fallen to Sweden, and that of Chairman  of the Credentials Committee, which this morning  fell to Venezuela. Out of the eighteen posts, only  sixteen therefore remain to be filled.
(24) With regard to the Nominations Committee,  the Board, bearing in mind both geographical dis-  tribution and the frequency of appointment, has  chosen the Netherlands.
(25) The PRESIDENT - I thank the Chairman of the  Executive Board for the suggestions that he has  made. I think that all of us in the General Con-  ference feel indebted to the Executive Board for the  suggestions it has made to enable us to proceed in  an orderly fashion with the business of our Organi-  zation. We have heard the suggestion of the Chair-  man of the Executive Board that the Netherlands be  invited to assume the chairmanship of the Nomina-  tions Committee. It is mydutyas Acting President  to see that this Committee is established. I shall  then invite your nominee, whoever he may be, to  preside over the Nominations Committee, until you  have completed your consideration of these sugges-  tions and any others that members of the Nomina-  tions Committee may care to bring forward. I  should like to know whether the delegates are willing  to adopt the suggestion put forward by the Chairman  of the Executive Board that the Chairman of the  Nominations Committee should be from the Nether-  lands... I cansee by your applause that you accept  with acclamation. I therefore invite the delegate  of the Netherlands, Mr. Bender, to come forward  to take the Chair of the Nominations Committee.  We are now adjourning the plenary meeting.  The plenary meeting adjourned at 4. 10 p. m.  REPORT OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE
(26) The PRESIDENT - Fellow delegates, we now  convene again in plenary session. The meeting of  the Nominations Committee has ended, and we have  met to receive the report from its Chairman. I  call upon Mr. Bender, delegate of the Netherlands,  to present that report.  PLENARY MEETINGS
(27) Mr. BENDER (Netherlands), Chairman of the  Nominations Committee - Mr. President, fellow  delegates, I have the honour to present to you the  report of the first meeting of the Nominations Com-  mittee. We first heard the report of the Chairman  of the Executive Board, who proposed that the very  distinguished Head of the French delegation, . His  Excellency Mr. André Marie, Minister of Educa-  tion, should be elected as President of the Seventh  Session of the General Conference. The Vice-  Chairman of the French delegation, Mr. Montel,  referred to the fact that France had occupied the  Presidency in the year 1946, and he asked the de-  legates to consider the possibility of recommending  another candidate in case Mr. André Marie himself  could not accept the honour of the nomination. The  Chairman of the Executive Board then proposed  that Dr. Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, the most dis-  tinguished Head of the Indian delegation, be elected  President of the present session; Dr. Radhakrish-  nan was accepted by acclamation.
(28) We then came to the matter of electing the  ten Vice-Presidents. The Chairman of the Execu-  tive Board made some remarks about the paper  which had been circulated this morning, and told  the Conference why these countries had been sug-  gested, keeping in mind an equitable geographical  distribution. Nominations were then received from  the Vice-Chairman of the United States delegation,  who proposed Thailand, in the person of His  Excellency Pin Malakul. This suggestion was sup-  ported by the delegates of Cambodia, Indonesia and  Korea. The delegate of Costa Rica then proposed  Cuba, and the delegate of New Zealand proposed  Australia. After the remarks of the Vice-Chairman  of the United States delegation, it was decided to  proceed to a vote by secret ballot. I now have the  honour to give you the result, which is known to  some of you already. Canada received 54 votes;  Mexico, 53, Italy, 52; Pakistan, 51; Unite  Kingdom, 50; German Federal Republic, 47;  Liberia, 45; France, 43; Greece, 43; and Syria,
39. The delegates of these countries were there-  fore elected Vice-Presidents. In addition, Thai-  land received 31 votes; Australia, 18; Cuba, 17;  India, 4; United States of America, 1; Japan, 1;  and Lebanon, 1. Mr. President, I have the honour  to present this result to you.
(29) The PRESIDENT - I thank the Head of the  Netherlands delegation for the report of the Nomi-  nations Committee. I have the honour to inform  you that we are privileged to have with us here the  gentleman whom you nominated by acclamation, in  the first instance, for the Presidency of this Gene-  ral Conference. I refer to His Excellency, Mr.  André Marie, Head of the French delegation, and  Minister of Education of the Republic of France. I  should like to call upon Mr. André Marie.
(30) Mr. MARIE (France) - (Translated from the  French) Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen,
48 -   PLENARY MEETINGS II-2  dear colleagues, in proposing that the Conference  should elect the Head of the French delegation  President, your Nominations Committee did France  an honour for which Iam deeply grateful. My  thanks are also due to all of you who, in supporting  that suggestion, wished to show their gratitude to  my country for the cordial welcome that my com-  patriots are glad to extend to you and that they hope  will be worthy of you. But, while deeply apprecia-  ting your intention, I feel obliged to decline your  offer on this occasion. France, which was already  honoured in 1946 by the election of Léon Blum - one  of the founders of your Organization - to the Pre-  sidency of your First General Conference, does  not wish to claim any preferential treatment simply  because it has the keenly appreciated privilege of  harbouring Unesco's headquarters; nor does it  wish, by accepting this honour, to interfere with  the practice of appointing Presidents from different  countries in rotation, a practice which shows to all  the world that the universality of the Organization  is not an empty phrase. And so, while assuring  the Conference once again how deeply moved I am  and how moved my country will be by the friendly  gesture of your Nominations Committee, I will ask  you to elect one of the many distinguished persons  who have been brought together here from all parts  of the world by a common faith in the future of the  human spirit; it will doubtless be difficult for you  to choose from among so many persons of great  distinction and talent, but you will, I feel sure,  honour with your choice a country which has not yet  been electedto the presidency. A further advantage  will be that your discussions will be led by a man  who has no inescapable outside obligations that  would unfortunately necessitate his absence from  your meetings and thus cause him, however involun-  tarily, to fall short in his duties. Once again, I  should like to thank you with all my heart.
(31) The PRESIDENT - I know that I speak for all  of us when I say to His Excellency Mr.André Marie,  that we are deeply indebted tohim for the generous  words that he has addressed to us. I should like to  say in his presence that we are enjoying again the  hospitality of the Republic of France in this great  city of Paris; I know that I speak for all of us when  I say tohim that the General Conference of Unesco  has invariably found that this hospitality is warm  and inspires us to our best efforts.
(32) May we now return tothe report submitted by  the Nominations Committee. The Chairman of that  Committee presented a report which in its details  was not completely unfamiliar to:some of you, as  .he said. I should like to know if there is a seconder  of his motion that this report be adopted. I see a  number of seconders. I see Japan, the Philippines,  the United Kingdom, Norway and many others. All  those in favour?... Those opposed?... Absten-  tions ?... I declare that the report of the Nomina-  tions Committee has been unanimously accepted by  this General Conference.
(33) At this point I invite our distinguished new  President, the leader of the delegation of India,  Dr. Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, to come forward  and to take the Chair.  The Chair was taken by Dr. Sarvepalli Radhak-  rishnan.
(34) Dr. Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India)  (newly elected President of the Seventh Session) -  Fellow delegates and friends, I am deeply touched  by the great honour which this Conference has con-  ferred on me, on my delegation and on my country.  I refer especially to the very warm and generous  words with which the Chairman of the Executive  Board put my name forward. I also refer to the  way in which the Head of the French delegation, the  Minister of Education of France, stepped aside,  waived his right, and enabled this Conference to  propose a representative of an Eastern country.  For the first time in this General Conference you  have a President from this geographical area. I  am therefore thankful to each delegation - to the  French delegation in particular - and to the Execu-  tive Board which put forward my name unanimously  for this exalted position.
(35) I have been connected with Unesco for a num-  ber of years, ever since it was established in this  beautiful and intellectual city, and I have seen the  work of our Director-General. I believe very  firmly that the work of Unesco is of much greater  importance than other types of work calculated to  foster peace, freedom and progress. Under the in-  spiring and courageous leadership of our Director-  General we have now emphasized the central objec-  tives of this Organization: freedom and progress.  Freedom is easy to talk about. This morning the  leader of the American delegation, the distinguished  President of last year, who has conducted the busi-  ness of this Conference with such great care and  consideration, said that athird war can be avoided.  I echo his sentiments. If we believe that a third  war cannot be avoided, it only means that civiliza-  tion has failed, education and culture have failed,  Unesco itself has failed. It is essential therefore  that we should will not merely peace but the condi-  tions that are essential for securing peace. Mrs.  Jouhaux, representing ILO, expressed the hope  that Human Rights will become "functioning, living  realities'. It is a great statement. Let them be-  come functioning, living realities. There are vic-  tims of political power, of economic greed, of racial  pride. It is not possible for them, when they are  slaves to other men, to lead happy, contented  lives.
(36) No man can attain happiness in this world if  he feels hungry or cold, if he is a slave to other  men, if he is surrounded by filth and disease, and  if he does not have the elementary necessities for  ordinary life. It is essential for him to have some  leisure for recreation, for reflection. We ask our-  selves: how many people in this world have these  =149 —   II-2  facilities, which are formulated in the Declaration  of Human Rights; and is it not our purpose here to  work for the realization of those Human Rights  themselves? We know, as a matter of fact, that  the inventions of science and technology have re-  moved the greatest obstacles to human well-being  ard happiness. If only we use them for proper  purposes, it will be possible for us to lead the  world to a happy, safe and generous state. What  is it that prevents this? It is human stupidity, it  is human cussedness. How can we remove these  obstacles which are in the minds of men, which  prevent us from using the great instruments of  science and technology for making this world a  better and happier place? That is the question we  all ask. We talk about penicillin, we talk‘ about  chloroform, aeroplanes and the telephone. On the  other side, we have terrible weapons: atom bombs,  poison gas, germs, etc. Men must use the instru-  ments of science for the improvement of the con-  ditions of life, for the fault is not in science and  technology. What is demonic is in the nature of  man. If we wish to cure this element of vileness,  wildness, cussedness, in the nature of man, it is  essential for us to mobilize the great spiritual re-  sources of mankind, The cure for that is to restore  the truths of the spirit to the central place in the  minds of men. Let those truths of the spirit sway  the minds of men, transform the lives of men. The  truths of the spirit are liberality, understanding,  freedom. Those who deny freedom in the name of  freedom are no less dangerous than those who deny  freedom in the name of discipline and authority.  Let us therefore send out from this Conference a  message to this groping, uncertain, discontented  world: that love and not hatred, that freedom and  not fear, that faith and not doubt, have in them-  selves the healing of the nations. If we carry out  these principles in our daily life and in our inter-  national relations, out of the anguish of this world  will be born anew unity of mankind, a unity in which  the ideals of the spirit will find safety and security.  I thank youonce again for the honour you have done  me by electing me to this exalted position, and my  thanks are real and warm. Thank you.
(37) I now call the attention of the General Con-  ference to the following: having heard the report  of the Nominations Committee we are in a position  to establish the different Commissions and Com-  mittees, or at any rate to elect their Chairmen  according to the recommendations which have al-  ready been put before you and which you have  approved.  PLENARY MEETINGS
(38) First, for the Programme Commission, the  Chairman suggested is from Lebanon, Is it your  pleasure that the delegate of Lebanon be elected  Chairman of the Programme Commission?...  Lebanon has nominated Mgr Maroun.
(39) Forthe Administrative Commission, the per-  son proposed is the delegate of the United States  of America. Is it approved?... Will the United  States delegation kindly nominate a person?...  Mr. Luther Evans has been proposed.
(40) For the Procedure Committee, the Chairman  proposed is from Japan. Is that approved?...  Mr. Haguiwara has been nominated. Is that  approved?. ..
(41) For the Committee on Reports of Member  States, Turkey has been proposed. Is that appro-  ved?... The member for Turkey who will act as  Chairman is Mr. Tuncel. Is that approved?...
(42) We now come to the election of the ten Vice-  Presidents. Will the delegations kindly nominate  those who will actfor them inthe General Commit-  tee as Vice-Presidents ?  Canada : H.E. Mr. Victor Doré  Head of the delegation  Mexico : H.E. Mr. José Lelo de Larrea  Head of the delegation  Italy : H.E., Mr. Alessandro Casati  Head of the delegation  Pakistan : Mr. S. M. Sharif  Head of the delegation  United Sir Ben Bowen Thomas  Kingdom :  German Dr. Walter Erbe  Fed.Rep. : Deputy Head of the delegation  Liberia : The Honourable Nathaniel V. Massaquoi  Head of the delegation  France : H.E. Mr. André Marie  Head of the delegation  Greece : Professor A. Photiades  Head of the delegation  Syria : H.E. Mr. Tayara  Head of the delegation
(43) That completes our business for the day. To-  morrow morning at 9.30 there will be a meeting of  the General Committee in this building, first floor.  At 10. 30 there will be a plenary meeting when the  Chairman of the Executive Board will make his  comments on the Report of the Director-General  and this Report will be thrown open for discussion.  The meeting rose at 6.15 p. m.  - 50 -