PLENARY MEETINGS  SEVENTH PLENARY MEETING  Saturday, 15 November 1952, at 9.45 a.m.  President: Dr. SARVEPALLI RADHAKRISHNAN (India)  CONTENTS  Discussion of the Director-General's Report (continu-  ation): Speeches by the delegates of Pakistan, Bel-  gium, Mexico and New Zealand . . . . . . . . . 103  DISCUSSION OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL’S REPORT  (continuation)
(1) The PRESIDENT - I call upon Mr. S. M. Sharif,  Head of the delegation of Pakistan.
(2) Mr. S.M. SHARIF (Pakistan) - Mr. President,  ladies and gentlemen, first of all I should like to  express, on behalf of my delegation, our pleasure  and honour in participating in the Seventh Session  of the General Conference of Unesco, which is  being held in this lovely city of Paris, in this land  of art and culture and freedom. I should next like  to pay tribute to the Director-General, to his qual-  ities of wisdom and intellectual vigour, and, in the  words of my esteemed friend, the Chairman of the  Executive Board, to the "unstinted devotion" with  which the Director-General has carried out his  duties. I should also like to convey to the Secret-  ariat our warm appreciation of their excellent  work.
(3) We have listened to the speeches of the Chair-  man of the Executive Board and the Director-  General with great interest. We have been greatly  struck by the note of sincerity, conviction and faith  underlying their orations. It is often said that in-  stitutions and countries get the leaders they de-  serve. Ladies and gentlemen, if that is so, the  dynamic personalities of Mr. Torres Bodet and  Mr. Carneiro are the best testimony to Unesco's  vitality.
(4) We have studied the Report of the Director-  General and the draft Programme for 1953-54 with  great care. The Report is an excellent document;  it is precise, it is lucid, and its presentation is  logical. It is truly, as the Chairman of the Exe-  cutive Board observed, the "fullest picture" ever  presented to a General Conference. This Report  shows Unesco in action; it shows what it has ac-  complished and how much still remains to be done.  A substantial measure of achievement is recorded.  The number of Member States has increased, the  National Commissions are more active, and there  is increasing collaboration between the Member  States and Unesco. The programme is more real-  istic and better adapted to the aims and capacities  of Unesco. There is greater concentration of ef-  fort, yet there is a balance in its varied activities.  We congratulate the Director-General, the Secret-  ariat and the Executive Board on the measure of  success that Unesco has achieved and on the real-  istic character of its programme. The Report has  left a deep impression on my delegation. I cannot  describe it in better terms than those of the Chair-  man of the Executive Board: "Unesco is there and  is making itself necessary in every quarter".
(5) The distinguished Head of the American dele-  gation, Mr. Howland Sargeant, exhorted the Sixth  Session of the General Conference last year to  make Unesco a vital force. I believe that Unesco  is already a vital force, influencing intellectual  thought in the world - gradually, but surely in an  ever increasing measure. I shall illustrate this  by the example of my own country. Pakistan joined  this great Organization in 1949, and already it is  experiencing Unesco's impact. Unesco has sent  six distinguished international educationists to  Pakistan. Three of them are working as a team  in the sphere of Social Sciences in the University  of Dacca, and the other three are working in the  sphere of Natural Sciences in other universities.  Unesco has also undertaken specific projects in  the fields of geophysics and broadcasting, -and  several international experts are working on these  projects. The collaboration of these men of edu-  cation, science and culture with our own men has  greatly stimulated internationalunderstanding. Our  universities and institutions are no longer working  in isolation. They are engaged in the important  task of national reconstruction, and now, as a re-  sult of this contact, they are bound to acquire an  international outlook also. Moreover, Unesco has  invited our educationists to.collaborate with others  in special meetings of experts. This collaboration  - 103 -   II-7  has been most fruitful, for our educationists have  gone back home with their horizons widened and  their minds imbued with the spirit and ideals of  Unesco. More recently, Unesco sent a mission in  fundamental education. The mission toured the  country extensively, visiting towns and villages,  and its tour received considerable publicity. These  activities, Mr. President, have brought Unesco  much nearer to our people.
(6) Unesco's aim is to promote the establishment  of peace through international understanding. But  is it possible to promote international understand-  ing when more than half the world is steeped in  ignorance and prejudice, poverty and hunger?  Speaking on behalf of my delegation at the Fourth  Session of the General Conference, held in Paris  in 1949, I stressed two points: first, that Unesco  should lay down an order of priorities in its pro-  gramme; and secondly, that among the priorities  it should emphasize projects calculated to promote  social and economic development and to banish ig-  norance and prejudice. I am glad to state that this  emphasis has received increasing recognition from  the Director-General, the Secretariat, and the  Executive Board in the programmes of the past  three years.
(7) In this connexion, I should like to express my  delegation's appreciation of Unesco's emphasis on  fundamental education and on free and compulsory  primary education. Unesco's project for the estab-  lishment of regional and national centres of funda-  mental education is truly a landmark in the history  of Unesco. My Government regards fundamental  education as being of vital importance to the eco-  nomic and social development of the country. It is  grateful to Unesco for having sent us a mission of  experts. My Government is considering the report  of this mission, and hopes to implement it substan-  tially. The Pakistan delegation realizes that Unes-  co does not possess enough funds to finance these  projects on a large scale, but hopes earnestly that  it will be able to stimulate private philanthropy, or  that the United Nations will subsidize its efforts  and those of its Member States.
(8) While fundamental education is vital to the  economic development of less developed countries,  the provision of free and compulsory primary edu-  cation is even more important. Free primary  education is a basic right, now incorporated in the  Declaration of Human Rights. It is an obligation  on the part of the governments to provide this bas-  ic right for their peoples. But, may I ask, how  many countries with under-developed resources  can discharge this obligation satisfactorily? When  the Covenant on Human Rights was being discussed  by Unesco last year, I pointed out the inability of  less developed countries to discharge this obliga-  tion with their limited financial resources and I  asked for international assistance. In the Confer-  ence on Public Education held at Geneva last year,  I raised the same issue and expressed the view  that it was the duty of the States with developed  PLENARY MEETINGS  resources and economy to help the less developed  countries to discharge this basic obligation. I  urged Unesco to impress upon the Economic and  Social Council the imperative need of financial as-  sistance, either through direct assistance by the  more affluent States, or through long-term loans  from such institutions as the World Bank. I am  glad to be able to state that this suggestion has  borne fruit and that Unesco has placed this item  on the agenda for discussion in the forthcoming  conference on compulsory primary education to be  held at Bombay next raonth. It seems to me iron-  ical that, while some States are spending millions  on armaments to defend peace, they should not be  willing to spend a small fraction of this sum on an  activity which is admittedly the best safeguard for  peace. On behalf of my delegation I would there-  fore urge Unesco to impress on the Economic and  Social Council, and through it the United Nations,  the importance of international financing of pro-  jects for free and compulsory education.
(9) There are other projects which deserve com-  mendation. My delegation believes that increasing  co-operation among men of education, science and  culture all over the world is essential for interna-  tional understanding, and it would support propos-  als calculated to promote the exchange of fellowships  and personnel and to stimulate the establishment  and working of national and international non-  governmental organizations. For the same reason,  my delegation would support proposals calculated  to promote free exchange of ideas and of educa-  tional, scientific and cultural materials between  the different nations of the world. My delegation  warmly approves the project for the Scientific and  Cultural History of Mankind and believes that this  project would greatly facilitate Unesco's task in  stressing the interdependence of scientific and  cultural progress. In particular, my delegation  attaches great importance to the programme of  technical assistance and believes that through it  Unesco can greatly help less developed countries  to achieve economic and social development.
(10) There is a feeling among some of us that the  activities of Unesco should be regionalized. I  agree that there is need for decentralization, since  many of Unesco's projects must be linked to local  needs and environments. I feel obliged, however,  to repeat my words of caution. Undue emphasis  on regionalism is likely to promote regional group-  ing, which will militate against Unesco's aim of  securing complete understanding among all nations  of the world and not merely among groups of na-  tions.
(11) The main theme of Unesco's programme is  the respect for human rights. But can this respect  be ensured unless there is social justice, economic  independence and political freedom? As long as  political greed, social inequality and economic ex-  ploitation last, the dream of universal peace and  respect for human beings and rights will remain  unrealized. We are’ passing through a crisis.  - 104 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  There is physical insecurity, and, worse still,  spiritual and moral bankruptcy. Emphasis on  technical advance has led to a situation where  man's knowledge has outstripped his morals. Un-  less thereis an increase inhis spiritual capacities,  he will be destroyed by a Frankenstein's monster  of his own making. Salvation lies in education with  its roots deep in spiritualism, in the philosophy of  life, and a clear-cut objective to inspire and guide  us. Pakistan's response, if I may say so, to the  moral crisis of civilization is firm and unequivo-  cal. Pakistan is pledged to the objectives of peace,  to those noble ideals which alone can make a uni-  versal peace and respect for human rights pos-  sible - ideals of justice, brotherhood of man and  tolerance. It is not enough to preach these ideals,  it is not enough to proclaim them in the Declara-  tion of Human Rights; it is necessary to practise  them. Pakistan is a young State with the vitality  of youth; it is shaping its policy according to these  noble ideals. During the five years of its existence,  it has undertaken numerous projects of national  reconstruction and reform. Its social legislation  is based on the recognition of the principle of  equality, its economic legislation is based on the  desire to improve the conditions of the under-  privileged, and its educational programme is de-  signed to improve educational facilities at all  levels.
(12) The world is distracted; it is torn by con-  flicting passions. It is for Unesco, for all of us  who assemble here and thousands of others engaged  in the pursuit of education, science and culture to  influence the minds of men, and even more the  minds of governments, against social tyranny and  political and economic domination. It is for us to  preach the gospel of the universality of man, just-  ice and tolerance. It is for us to show the world  that man can live in peace with his neighbours,  with understanding and respect for the rights of  others.
(13) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Pakistan and call upon the Head of the Belgian  delegation, Mr. Harmel.
(14) Mr. HARMEL (Belgium) - (Translation from  the French) Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen,  the first thought of the Belgian delegation is to pay  a tribute to France, which is receiving us once  again, and to Paris, that city of lofty thought. Next  we wish to thank the Director-General and the  Executive Board, without more ado, for the steady  progress made by our Organization, that is so  clearly apparent from the Director-General's Re-  port and the Programme for 1953-1954.
(15) Belgium has never been grudging in its co-  operation with Unesco, and the Belgian Government  has always followed the Organization's work very  closely. Its co-operation has been further rein-  forced this year by the reorganization and exten-  sion of the Belgian National Commission. The  I[-7  Commission has made a lengthy study, in various  committees, of the documents we are to discuss,  and I should like to take this opportunity of paying  à tribute to my eminent and disinterested fellow-  countrymen who are working for peace and social  progress in our national organization. I see no  reason, however, to disguise from you that public  opinion in Belgian political, university and educa-  tional circles has as yet failed to be fired by the  enthusiasm which should be aroused by the aims  of Unesco. The only discussion that has taken  place on the subject in the Belgian Parliament this  year showed how little our people understood the  main lines of Unesco's programme: it was afraid  that Unesco wanted to operate in too many fields!
(16) It is on this account that we very particularly  appreciate the work of synthesis achieved by the  Director-General, whose creative imagination,  administrative ability and infectious faith have be-  come proverbial; he has summarized our main  fields of activity in eight Chapters, preserving the  same aims while indicating much more precisely  the means of realizing them.
(17) The Belgian delegation observes with appre-  ciation that education occupies a larger place in  the programme as a whole, and that the technical  assistance and fundamental education programmes  have been linked together; the effectiveness of both  will, we may reasonably hope, be increased there-  by.
(18) Our delegation approves the new line adopted  in connexion with generous enterprise of associated  projects, and the creation of national centres, in  addition to the regional centres for the training of  staff and preparation of the teaching material re-  quired for fundamental education: Our delegation  feels that the number of regional centres should  not be unduly increased; three or four of them  ought to be enough. When requested, Unesco would  assist the national centres and associated projects  with its documents and experts.
(19) The Belgian delegation is particularly inter-  ested in the activities envisaged for the participa-  tion of workers in cultural life and in the proposed  attempts tohelp youth organizations and movements  to contribute to the development of good citizenship  and the spirit of international concord.
(20) The Belgian delegation also approves the  preparation of draft international conventions in  the field of copyright protection and protection of  cultural property in the event of armed conflict,  and the creation of international research centres  and laboratories such as the International Compu-  tation Centre and the International Laboratory for  Nuclear Research.
(21) Such, briefly, are the projects we are most  interested in. We believe that if each associate  State undertook, on its own behalf and that of the  peoples for which it is responsible, to carry out  all the schemes mentioned here, the purpose of  these meetings would be amply realized. But we  want also to make Unesco into a driving force, to  - 105 -
11-7  bring it into practical action, and we aim at achieve-  ments on a world scale. That raises the problem  of Unesco's own means of action.
(22) We view with much concern the discrepancy  between an essentially dynamic programme of  action and a more or less static budgetary pro-  gramme. It is not difficult to show that each part  of our programme must expand if Unesco is to  distribute an increasing number of direct or in-  direct subventions to international scientific bodies,  and if the number of study meetings in each region  of the world and the number of teachers! training  colleges has got to be increased, in order to sat-  isfy aspirations which are not illusory but justifi-  able in all cases.
(23) Our budgets are static. Many of our countries  are engaged, during these difficult years, in per-  forming the more urgent duties of protecting the  peace. They want to carry out their missions first  and to meet their responsibilities in overseas ter-  ritories. They are also anxious not to destroy  their economic equilibrium, and their national ex-  penditure on education and culture has itself been  reduced. Belgium, for its part, will gladly under-  take to maintain its 1953 and 1954 financial contri-  bution to Unesco at the level of previous years, but -  cannot increase it.
(24) We believe, moreover, that at each General  Conference, in five years or in ten years, a new  concentration of targets must be made. As the  Director-General has said, this concentration will  be brought about by better co-ordination.’ Like him,  we would avoid cuts, which may make deep wounds  in the living body; but, if the main branches of our  activity are to be left free to extend, we shall have  to prune the whole tree every year in order to en-  sure that the sap runs to the right places. We, for  our part, are not afraid of this continual test: the  storm which leaves strong trees standing has val-  ue as a purifying force.
(25) One last point: at the beginning of the section  on Natural Sciences we read that "the spectacle of  the steady progress of his own works cannot but be  a source of inspiration to man" and "a genuine  material liberation. Our delegation endorses  this whole-heartedly. It is true that the welfare of  nations and the standard of living of their toiling  peoples depend upon scientific progress, which is  the sole source of technical progress. We can tell  hungry peoples that a rise in their standard of liv-  ing will result from more efficient labour based on  steadily increasing scientific and technical know-  ledge. We may even tell them, in the words of the  Programme, that "the outcome of man's ever  fuller grasp of things will also be a spiritual re-  lease" and "a right understanding of his place in  and of his power over nature should bring man  added faith in himself and a firm belief in his  future".
(26) Our countries, already at an advanced stage  of technical civilization, have in fact found, in  connexion with their common people's welfare, that  PLENARY MEETINGS  every new rise in the standard of living brings with  it fresh demands for culture from increasingly  large classes of the working and agricultural pop-  ulation. .
(27) But as the representative here of a nation at  an advanced stage of technical development, I do  not want to boast. Many peoples in the world ex-  ‘pect Unesco to bring them reading, mathematics,  technical training and the positive sciences. But  where does this demand come from? Must we not  admit that the greater part of the regions where  these things are most desired possess the oldest  civilizations? Very many regions of Asia, North  Africa and South America are rich in treasures  hundreds or thousands of years old, rich in monu-  ments, in literature, and above all in wisdom that  has been passed down unaltered for thousands of  years; they have more ancient family, religious  and patriotic traditions than our own. Have we not  sometimes in our own countries debased, even  sacrificed, all these vital values in the fever of  our scientific and technical discoveries?
(28) Let us, by means of technical and scientific  progress, free from disease, famine and want all  those who have a right to these benefits, but let us  beware of imparting our own penury to them if we  ourselves have lost the treasure of human wisdom.  It would not be enough to preserve, in the course  of our scientific and cultural work, the essential  character of each country's civilization. Let us  have the modesty to ask peoples that are tempor-  arily poor in material things, to give us access to  their own cultural heritage.
(29) The people of the old territories governed by  Belgium are petitioners to Unesco; they ask to be  able to share with that great number of other, more  ancient nations scattered throughout the five con-  tinents - whatever those nations! technical devel-  opment - the best that each of us has to offer:  humanistic and spiritual values, the great sources  of peace and social progress.
(30) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Belgium and call upon the delegate of Mexico,  Mr. Lelo de Larrea.
(31) Mr. José LELO de LARREA (Mexico) -  (Translation from the Spanish) Mr. President,  ladies and gentlemen, it affords me the deepest  satisfaction to pay sincere tribute to the Director-  General and Secretariat of our Organization for  the magnificent results recorded in the general  report of Unesco's activities. It is also my duty  to convey in the warmest terms the concurrence  of the Mexican delegation alike in the remarks of  the Chairman of the Executive Board and in the  unanimous opinion of the other delegations on the  importance of the achievement. The permanent  lines along which Unesco is to work in the noble  world-wide experiment in education, science and  © culture committed to its charge have been found  already. Mr. Torres Bodet said of the resolutions  - 106 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  of the early programmes that in them specialists  vied with one another in the praiseworthy fertility  of their ideas. It is enough to compare these pro-  grammes with that for 1953 and 1954 before this  Conference to appreciate the extent of the ground  we have covered, the number of the paths explored  and the coherence of the work plan now submitted  to us.
(32) This latest report on our Organization's ac-  tivities is an epitome of the work of building inter-  national understanding and world solidarity in  which Unesco is employed. In it the differences of  approach called for by the differences in regional  problems and in the cultures and inherent possi-  bilities of different human groups are systematic-  ally assessed, according to a common yard-stick,  indeed, but with full respect for the validity of  each. The factors are accurately weighed one  against another, the programmes are given their  true relative perspective, and throughout the whole  is informed by a spirit which brooks no difficulties  and spares no frankness about the real state of  problems whose complexity may be inferred from  our programme. à
(33) For the first time in the history of education,  science and culture, an attempt has been made at  a comprehensive statement of the problems in-  volved in their equitable distribution to the world  and of the possible solutions to these problems.  What strikes us with admiration is not alone the  logic of the whole nor the competence with which  the most practical means of overcoming the prob-  lems are seized on, but the generous vision and  energy behind the planning and launching of a com-  plete system covering the field from elementary  education to the loftiest achievements of man's  creative genius. Thus the constructive policies it  evolves reveal Unesco as necessary and, indeed,  of the most immediate relevancy to the world, and  with justification it requires our unstinted co-  operation, limited only by our several resources.  For we have a duty to serve the ideal of the world  community, which proclaims the right of all to  use, for the benefit of all, the improvements,  achievements, discoveries and creations bequeathed  by man to his fellows.
(34) This dynamic concept which makes of educa-  tion, science and culture evangelists of freedom  and redemption - with none excluded, with all  egoism and lust for power eschewed - is the very  essence of Unesco. Within Unesco's sphere of  work, frontiers no longer count. Wherever there  is a possibility that an activity, a discovery, a  lesson, a piece of advice, an experiment, a book  or the work of a laboratory may be applicable to  the educational, scientific or cultural needs or  problems of other peoples, there is Unesco doing  the utmost that its present means allow to increase  the yield and, thereby, the cultural and moral  heritage of mankind.
(35) No one can do anything for another if that  other is not willing to bear his part. My delegation  Il-7  is well aware that without the co-operation of Mem-  ber States the work entrusted to Unesco would be-  come largely ineffective, and Mexico has given  such co-operation without reserve. Hence, and in  view of the absolute priority which our complex  needs have forced our Government to give to edu-  cation, science and culture, we in Mexico are well  placed to appreciate the benefits derived from the  aid Unesco is now giving us or may give us in the  future.
(36) Mr. President, fundamental education is a  question of the first concern to Mexico. Indeed it  might be said that it has its roots in the Mexican  revolution, drawing its sap from the social, eco-  nomic and cultural principles enshrined in our  Political Constitution of 1917. This type of educa-  tion, as the Director-General's Report shows  plainly, is not limited to the conquest of illiteracy.  The ignorance of illiterates extends to more than  the alphabet, for the man who cannot read, cannot  learn what books have to teach. The illiterate's is  a primitive world of rudimentary production meth-  ods, filth and sickness, and he is a ready prey to  the despotic tyranny of poverty. In Mexico the  work of fundamental education has behind it a  splendid tradition of effective activity. The cul-  tural missions which, for years past, have been  touring the country, are designed to raise the gen-  eral standard of living of the most isolated and de-  pressed communities in our country. The great  literacy campaigns have been backed up by a drive  for the simultaneous encouragement of local pro-  duction, hygiene, arts and crafts, sport and amuse-  ment.
(37) All this explains Mexico's proper pride in  being the site of one of our Organization's pilot  projects, the fundamental education centre for  Latin America on the shores of Lake Patzcuaro.  Our efforts, considerable on Mexico's part from  the financial angle alone, are beginning to yield  the results which the energy and high professional  quality of the teaching staff and the dedicated spirit  of the pupils warrant our expecting. Prospective  instructors from 17 Latin American countries are  under training in this centre and, on graduation,  will become promoters of fundamental education  programmes and experiments in their own coun-  tries. In this connexion, I am glad to announce at  this Conference that my Government intends to use  the Mexican graduates as a team to teach, else-  where in our country, those techniques which the  Patzcuaro experiment may show to.be most effect-  ive.
(38) We are also anxious to emphasize the im-  portance Mexico attaches to direct aid to scienti-  fic research, and more particularly to the use of  seminars for the co-ordination of the research  programmes of national bodies, as illustrated by  the seminar on the hydrology of the arid zone, held  at Ankara University in April last, at which a Mex-  ican expert was present. This is work which mer-  its our approval and support; it is à great thing to  - 107 -
1-7  have science serving humanity, showing the ways  to prosperity and abundance and not to destruction.
(39) As the distinguished delegate of the Lebanon  has rightly pointed out to us at this present Con-  ference, technical assistance blesses him that  gives as much as him that takes because, with the  extension of the boons of education and modern  technology, the peoples make the most of their own  mental gifts and their own cultures, and the ex-  changes between them necessarily lead them to the  practice of one form of international democracy,  the economic form, bylevelling out the inequalities  between the so-called "under-developed" and "'ad-  vanced" countries. As the Director-General's  Report so rightly stresses, that unbalance, with  all its consequences, is a threat to the general  security, an obstacle to world prosperity and a  bar to human solidarity.
(40) In the practice of this form of international  democracy Mexico has provided a new example of  the development of its own techniques and their  marriage with those of other countries, in this in-  stance the United States of America, in the estab-  lishment, under the aegis of the National University  of Mexico, of the Mexican Institute of Applied  Science, for meteorological studies with special  reference to the utilization of atmospheric humid-  ity. Here it both gives and receives technical  assistance. No one can precisely evaluate the full  prospective worth of the technical assistance pro-  gramme, ranging as it does from fundamental  education to the boldest schemes which no single  country could undertake on its own, and which  would necessarily be Unesco's business.
(41) We are ready to make a fair return for what  we ask of Unesco by promoting Unesco's ends  through the increased efficiency of our co-operating  bodies. To that end, the Mexican Ministry of Edu-  cation has lately procured increased results from  tasks which have been made the responsibility of  the permanent Commission of the Mexican National  Advisory Council for Unesco, through the setting  up of State Commissions in every State of the Mex-  ican Republic under the chairmanship of their re-  spective Governors. Only recently there was a  national meeting of State Commissions in Mexico  City to realign the directives for local work plans  and, with the means available to them, to promote  the general programme of Unesco activities  throughout the country.
(42) Gentlemen, the Mexican delegation shares to  the full the frequently expressed desire of Member  States to co-operate with growing effectiveness in  the execution of our Organization's general pro-  gramme. Without that spirit of co-operation, Unes-  co would be condemned to helplessness, and for  that reason every new circumstance hindering the  consolidation of peace must spur us to added en-  deavour. The recent events in international poli-  tics acquire special significance for the purpose  of the Conference's labours. The crises which  threaten when they do not completely block Unes-  PLENARY MEETINGS  co's plans for peace, reveal perils that we must  face with determination. In the face of these ob-  stacles, the results achieved by our Organization  show how peace and world understanding may be  achieved by the way of solidarity, the necessary  reaction against the grave maladjustments visible  in the contemporary world where there are mil-  lions of men for whom freedom is an. unobtainable  right and for whom equality before the law means  no more than a common wretchedness and con-  tinuing enslavement.
(43) Let it be repeated: all that technology has  done for men and peoples has made it easier to  appreciate the problems which are common ground.  We are discovering that international solidarity  gains strength more from consideration of the in-  security and penury widespread throughout the  world than from the contemplation of those men or  peoples who have solved their fundamental prob-  lems. We are beginning to perceive the necessity  of "practical" modification of a series of anti-  thetical states - the strength of the powerful and  the helplessness of the weak; the fecundity of edu-  cated minds and the sterility of ignorance; pros-  perity and starvation and despair.’ These contrasts  are the tragic evidence of an historical process of  which the interpretation has been so much bedev-  illed by ideological distortions that too often nothing  has come of it but futile manifestos, speeches and  generalities instead of the process's implicit les-  sons being given their rightful primacy in the  guidance of human affairs.
(44) Let it be repeated, the only path to permanent  peacelies through the abatement of the grave mal-  adjustments existing in the world. Neither the  natural resources of the five continents, nor the  men who dwell there, should be victims of the lust  for power, nor serfs whose payment for their toil  is degradation and sickness, a stunted wretched-  ness. :
(45) The triumph of democracy in which we trust  implies the achievement both of economic and cul-  tural democracy. Cultural democracy, in which  the creations of man are for the benefit of all, re-  gardless of colour, religion, customs or traditions,  squares at all points with the ideal which gives its  strength to our Organization. We could not genu-  inely believe inpolitical democracy if we restricted  its blessings to certain geographical areas, and  today we should not be giving, as we do, the best  of our enthusiasm to Unesco if we did not appre-  ciate the immeasurable worth of solidarity through  the mind. It is not long, gentlemen, since I read  in an English review that the way to peace is not  so much through international political assemblies  as through the men being moulded at the Patzcuaro  centre. That is the symbol of our truth.
(46) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Mexico and call upon Mr. Marsden of New Zealand.
(47) Mr. E. MARSDEN (New Zealand) - Mr. Pres-  - 108 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  ident and fellow delegates, as previous speakers  have done, I should like at the outset, on behalf of  New Zealand, to add our humble tribute to the ex-  cellence of the year's work and the able way in  which our brilliant Director-General has recorded  progress in the Report at present under discussion.  Although I have not the ability to express our ap-  preciation in the graceful and philosophic language  of so many of the earlier speakers, it is none the  less sincere.
(48) I wish to record that the New Zealand Gov-  ernment and the New Zealand people still adhere  firmly to the principles and ideals of Unesco. We  werethe secondof all countries to ratifythe agree-  ment to set up Unesco, and some of us are proud  that New Zealand is the second largest contributor,  on a "per capita" basis, to its funds. We have no  demands to make on its resources other thanthose  aimed at the uplifting of education, science and  culture among the less favoured peoples in all  parts of the world, but particularly in those areas  bordering the Pacific, in the hope that this area  may long remain as pacific in its human relations  as in its God-given environment.
(49) I should like to congratulate the Director-  General and the Secretariat on the higher level of  efficiency that has been reached and on the pro-  gress they have made towards concentration of  effort and resources; of these, the Report bears  ample evidence. But, now that many governments  besides my own feel thatthe growing and competing  demands on the resources of the old countries no  longer permit them, for the time being, to increase  their financial contributions to Unesco, it is more  important than ever that every project should be  examined to determine its value in relation to the  other activities of the Organization and to the bal-  ance of the whole. In this connexion, I should like  to support the remarks made by the distinguished  delegate of Sweden on Thursday, and to observe  that it seems to us that the fullest use may not  have been made in the past of the resources of  National Commissions. Nevertheless, the general  good work of the technical assistance section of  Unesco deserves our profound admiration.
(50) I agree also with the remarks of Mr. Nielsen  of Denmark regarding the value of even more care  and flexibility in the arrangements for the selection  of staff and advisers, and the desirability of donor  countries being made to feel that some of their  efforts are applied to specific regional objectives  so that they may take more enthusiastic interest  and responsibility in such work. I share his opin-  ion regarding the encouragement of such existing  organizations as the International Council of Sci-  entific Unions and the delegation of work to such  bodies, although, in passing, I should like to draw  attention to the increasing burden, upon smaller  countries, of subscriptions to the various unions  and sections of such bodies. Only a few days ago  wewere informed that, apart from the subscription  to ICSU itself, the additional levy from one of its  II-7  many unions, that of chemistry for example, was  £120 per annum. We cannot therefore accept  membership.
(51) The reputation and progress of Unesco and  all the ideals for which it stands will depend, in  the long run, on the keenness and selflessness of  the men associated with it, whether they be spe-  cialists, members of National Commissions, or  members of the Secretariat or of the Executive  Board; and it must be our first care, in all our  actions, to make sure that workers under the aegis  of Unesco command respect. We must aim at  making Unesco the rallying point of all honest and  able men who find satisfaction in rendering social  service under its auspices; and this applies to  those organizations to which Unesco gives subven-  tions and from which it in turn demands specialist  service and advice.
(52) It is becoming evident that the main pro-  gramme of Unesco should, for the time being,  concentrate on the more immediate problems of  removing illiteracy and giving technical help in  less developed countries, acting rather as a cata-  lyser to increase and encourage national action,  I appreciate that a budget of eight and a half mil-  lion dollars is pitifully small for this purpose.  Nevertheless, we must work within budgetary lim-  its, and I think our policy should be to carry out  really well a limited number of balanced projects  to which we apply ourselves. Unesco will be able  to increase its activities in the future; having be-  come even more respected and trusted, it will  draw to itself funds not only from private indivi-  duals and foundations, but alsofrom other agencies  of,the United Nations, so that it may carry out,  equally effectively, a wider number of projects  within its already wide Charter.
(53) As I said before, what is even more import-  ant is that Unesco should become increasingly the  Organization under whose aegis all able, sincere  men will find an outlet for their desire to serve  mankind according to their special abilities, op-  portunities and resources.
(54) I turn now to the details of the programme.  It is hardly to be expected that, even with such an  exceptionally able Executive Board and Director-  General, every project should find full favour with  every one of us. There is much to be said for a  periodical review of priorities, as suggested by  the United States delegation, if this is carried out  in a constructive, friendly and helpful spirit.  I have very much sympathy with the point of view  expressed by the Director-General in his opening  remarks, that Unesco's programme must be con-  sidered as a whole, and that education, science  and culture are mutually and necessarily comple-  mentary.
(55) In the early days of the Organization, I was  one of those who objected strongly to the inclusion  of "S" in Unesco. I was afraid of airy over-  organization, but I now agree that it is necessary.  However, this does not mean that Unesco should  - 109 -
1-7  itself aim at organizing and carrying out funda-  mental scientific research. I think this should be  left to the free initiative of others, with occasional  encouragement from Unesco. Unesco's job is to  apply up-to-date scientific knowledge to its prob-  lems, and to make sure that its education pro-  grammes aim atfosteringthe spirit of investigation  in all educational methods, whether at the funda-  mental, primary, secondary or university levels.  The cultivation of the spirit of investigation is a  necessary part of all real education, which is  more than the mere assimilation of facts. There  is something to be said for the suggestion that  Unesco should engage in many branches of educa-  tional research. Thus I do not altogether agree  with the statement at the top of page 14 in the  Director-General's Report that scientific research  is the privilege of a social élite, or of a minority  “ of nations.
(56) Scientific research is an attitude, applicable  at all levels and in all situations. Again I cannot  agree with the observations in the third paragraph  of page 13 where the Director-General appears to  imply - although it may be the difficulties of lan-  guage - that the main vocation of science is to  benefit the whole of mankind. True, this is one of  its indirect privileges, but the main motivation of  scientific research of any kind is objectively to  seek the truth, to follow the gleam and to find new  knowledge. It is the vocation of Unesco to keep in  touch with the findings of research so as to apply  progressively the results to its own tasks. Here I  should like to observe that the advances made  since the war in all branches of scientific research  are, in my opinion, far greater than during any  equal period in the world's history, and the harvest  already available for helping the tasks of Unesco  is tremendous, and increasing at a rate which  makes even our wildest dreams, which seemed  unattainable, come really true.
(57) There is one other topic I should like to men-  tion. I am a little apprehensive at some of Unes-  co's publications which deal with the comparison  of biological qualities of people of different races.  The exact way in which hereditary and environment  have combined to produce variation in racial qual-  ities is not yet, and may not be for a few years,  sufficiently known to justify dogmatic statements  by committees, in a form in which they can be put  in argument by many people not fully acquainted  with past and even present scientific conceptions  PLENARY MEETINGS  and their limitations. Such statements can often  do more harm than good. The same problem arises  in the application of democracy inside any particu-  lar country. Men and races may be equal in value  without having identical qualities. Educational  methods and technology cannot wisely be trans-  planted from one country to another to replace  existing knowledge and the practices of the peoples  concerned. We can merely share experiences and  supplement knowledge and culture in particular  fields, and should not aim at suppressing methods  which have emerged through generations of evo-  lution.
(58) We in New Zealand have experience of this,  We are in the happy position where our people of  European origin and our Maoris work together in  closer understanding and harmony than do differ-  ent sections of the same people in many other  countries. This is based on a mutual respect for  the particular directions in which each culture and  acquired knowledge have apparent superiority. In  my own experience, I have found several directions  in which our Maoris excel in knowledge and prac-  tice, when we compare their methods with those  based on so-called Western science and culture.  Our Maoris excel in sportsmanship, in oratory  and especially in natural observations of indigenous  plant ecology, and in many other directions. We  have learnt much from them about the breeding of  various plants and their suitability for the partic-  ular soils in which they can grow. I say therefore:  let us cease to countenance the publication of dog-  matic statements which may be interpreted by  some to imply that all races are identical in all  details of natural endowment; let us rather aim at  providing all peoples and all races with equal op-  portunities to develop their particular qualities,  each with a fuller knowledge of the science, phi-  losophy and practice of all other peoples. This is  Unesco's main task. In other words, let us use all  available and suitable means for the free propaga-  tion of knowledge and fuller opportunities for all  to acquire it by the removal of restrictions of all  kinds; thus we shall more surely develop mutual  respect between peoples and better international  understanding.
(59) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  New Zealand.  The meeting rose at 10.45 a. m.  - 110 -