II-4 PLENARY  for instance, boldly to simplify our methods of  work in the interests of efficiency? Why could not  Unesco, for instance, become a pioneer in taking  up a determined fight against the bureaucratic for-  malism which threatens to enwrap the work of in-  ternational organizations in a cloud of words and  documents ? It would be a meritorious achievement  in itself to rid us of this dusty phraseology, and  this could be done if we agreed to decrease the  number of documents and publications and if we  used a more succinct language. A reform of this  kind would be an enterprise not unworthy of a cul-  tural organization such as Unesco.
(95) Mr. President, in concluding my remarks I  wish, on behalf of the Swedish Government, to re-  affirm our declaration of solidarity with the aims  of Unesco and our confidence in you, Mr. Director-  General, and your collaborators. I am glad to re-  port that the National Commission in my country  MEETINGS  has succeeded in winning increasing support for  Unesco. We recognize the obvious progress and  the tangible results of the last 15 months' work.  Like you, Mr. Director-General, we do not think  that Unesco as an organization has reached a state  of perfection, but we believe that we are on the  right road and that promising avenues are opened  up for Unesco's work. We trust that the work will  be carried on in a spirit of friendly co-operation  among governments, National Commissions and  the Secretariat, and we hope that the work of this  session of the General Conference will contribute  towards the developing of that sense of interde-  pendence of the peoples of the world which we all  regard as the ultimate objective of the United Na-  tions arid the Specialized Agencies.  The meeting rose at 12.45 p.m.  FOURTH PLENARY MEETING  Thursday, 13 November 1952, at 3.30 p.m.  President: Dr. SARVEPALLI RADHAKRISHNAN (India).  CONTENTS  Discussion of the Director-General's Report (continu-  ation): Speeches by the delegates of Cuba, Denmark,  Lebanon, Norway, Canada, Italy, Afghanistan, Ecua-  dor and Colombia . .  DISCUSSION OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL’S REPORT  (continuation)
(1) The PRESIDENT - The Fourth Plenary Meet-  ing is now open. I call upon the delegate of Cuba  to present his comments on the Report of the  Director-General.
(2) Mr. J. REMOS (Cuba) - (Translation from the  Spanish) Mr. President, fellow delegates, the  present Government of Cuba believes firmly in the  outstanding importance of the objects pursued by  Unesco, which it regards as the organization best  fitted to guide humanity to a balanced state of  Seller Ee 64  mutual understanding and peace on a basis of  culture, the only one possible if that state is to be  achieved. Since it came into office, my Govern-  ment has given the closest attention to all prob-  lems connected with Unesco, knowing that, in spite  of the non-political nature of the National Com-  missions and the, policy of the Organization to  remain aloof from political ideologies, it is still  necessary that official encouragement, both moral  and material, should be given to those institutions  which bear the heaviest responsibilities inregard  to the application of Unesco's principles and the  endeavour totranslate those principles into reality.  My remarks are borne out by facts, Our national  - 64 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  budget contains a substantial item for subsidies to  the National Commission, and my Government is  faithfully fulfilling Cuba's economic commitments  to Unesco, in the earnest hope that the co-opera-  tion displayed by our country will exceed the theo-  retical limits to which State contributions are often  in fact reduced. The Government of Cuba does not  wish to neglect any means of upholding the lofty  and rightly ambitious ideal of Unesco and, in  addition to honouring its financial commitments,  it has been particularly concerned to strengthen  its relations with Unesco's headquarters in Paris,  through its permanent delegation. The Govern-  ment of Cuba feels sure that in this way delays can  be avoided and a bond of understanding formed  between Unesco and Cuba, to the satisfaction both  of my country's economic zeal and of its national  aspirations.
(3) A number of criticisms have been made of  Unesco's projects, particularly on the grounds that  they are too speculative and Utopian. Our Govern-  ment repudiates such charges and emphatically re-  affirms its agreement with the aims and aspira-  tions of Unesco and its belief that, if its activi-  ties have been in any way vitiated by certain spec-  ulative tendencies, that is not the fault of the  Organization itself, but is due to the limited sup-  port given by the Member States, for without such  support no practical measures are possible. In  the opinion of my Government, Unesco will not  attain its object through its own strength alone, but  through the effective understanding and support  contributed in proportion by those nations which  have identified themselves with the movement for  culture and civilization and are therefore repre-  sented at this Conference.
(4) Cuba is indeed aware that one of Unesco's  major defects is the multiplicity of its operations,  tending to diminish the effectiveness of those acti-  vities which can beregarded as essential and like-  ly to yield the most rapid and tangible results.  But Unesco, within the limits of its possibilities,  has made certain experiments which give our  Government ample reason to expect successful  action in the future. This can only happen if we  all have the work of Unesco at heart, and afford it  the necessary protection and support. Each of us  should resolutely play his part in this crusade to  remedy those defects that have caused so much  harm to mankind throughout the ages, making war  the only solution to civil and international conflicts.  Despite all the moral and material progress it has  achieved, human society has been unable, as a  result of those defects, to find the path which  leads away from the use of violence and force as  the sole means of gaining certain advantages, al-  ways at the cost of physical and spiritual sacri-  fices and with a legacy of horror and death on  which human happiness can never be built.
(5) The experiments in fundamental education  carried out in Mexico and, at present, in Egypt,  of which the Director-General gave a detailed
11-4  account in his report to this Conference, are elo-  quent proof of the achievements possible if the  necessary economic backing is given to Unesco's  activities. Cuba has faith in this work. Indeed,  before the Organization came into being, a suc-  cessful scheme of rural missions was introduced  in Cuba as one of the major items in President  Batista's constructive programme. This brought  to fulfilment the prophetic vision of the apostle  Marti in one of his finest passages, full of warm  understanding for the peasant population, published  in a Mexico City periodical, atthe time when he  found in that hospitable country the homelike at-  mosphere denied him in the colonial environment  of our islands. The rural missions, organized by  territorial areas, brought to the remotest spots in  the six Cuban provinces fundamental education,  including the elements of personal hygiene, manual  trades, simple methods of obtaining the highest  yield from the land, and domestic economy, en-  listing the services of teachers, master tradesmen,  expert agricultural workers, laboratory scientists,  doctors, dentists and visiting welfare workers.  Noteworthy results have been obtained, as is shown  by statistics, the only medium through which these  facts can be conclusively demonstrated.
(6) The Government of Cuba is able, on the basis  of its own tests, to assess the importance and  efficacy of this fine experimental work, and is,  moreover, in a position to offer the co-operation  of experts who have proved the value of these edu-  cational undertakings. Furthermore, Cuba, as a  member of the great American family, belongs to  a group of countries that have shown the world  their ability to appreciate and practise interna-  tional understanding; the Pan-American movement  is, indeed, the most objective and convincing ex-  ample of this. The American, who has so clearly  succeeded inopening the road to mutual understan-  ding, in solving the international problems of his  hemisphere, is well qualified to understand and  take part in that world society aimed at by Unesco,  in which all nations can work together for the  betterment of mankind.
(7) What America, and therefore of course Cuba,  hopes for is that the other continents will be led by  a true appreciation of America's positive qualities  to adopt a policy of mutual collaboration. That  would certainly produce admirable results, based  not on pride or prejudice, but on a balanced con-  ception of mutual aid, the ultimate aim being a sys-  tem of international co-ordination for the purpose  of collective security. As Mr. Jaime Torres  Bodet sowisely said in his speech at the opening of  the first Regional Conference of National Commis-  sions in the Western Hemisphere, held in Havana  in 1950, if international solidarity is to be reached  with regard to respect for justice it is necessary  that each party should behave towards others as it  would wish them to behave towards itself. Trust-  ing in the good faith underlying these words,  America will spare no effort to bring this Utopia  - 165 -   II-4  into our modern world, for it feels that the great  achiévements of history have always begun by being  great Utopias. This, at least, is how Cuba, a  child of American culture, views the matter.
(8) Our Republic hopes to show, through the account  it has given in the Reports of Member States, that  in the short time since the message of Unesco was  planted in the mind and wills of our people, Cuba  has succeeded, both in the public and private  spheres, in respondingto the great creative endea-  vour of the Organization. These words do not be-  token a state of complete satisfaction. On the con-  trary, we know that there is much to be undertaken  and completed. However, considering the question  from arelative point of view and taking into account  the difficult circumstances in which we have propa-  gated Unesco's ideals and objectives, as well as the  obstacles which naturally arise in a new and com-  plex undertaking, we take a pride inbeing associa-  ted with its work, and we look forward to even  greater and more effective co-operation in the  future, on the basis of Unesco's policy and  experience.
(9) Purely cultural elements outside political move-  ments, official circles connected with the multiple  activities of Unesco in the educational, cultural,  technical, scientific and diplomatic spheres and, in  general, those sections of the population that are  entrusted with the spiritual and mental advancement -  of the country, are coming more and more to  accept the ideals andaims of Unesco. The National  Commission, which is now in a better financial  position, is undertaking large-scale publicity and  a programme of continuous work, in pursuance of  directives carefully observed by the Regional  Centre. We have reason to hope for satisfactory  results which will justify the wisdom of these plans  and activities.
(10) What might be called the philosophical period  in Unesco's history is now past. In previous ses-  sions we heard a great deal of talk about aims and  potentialities. = Eminent intellectuals of the day  poured forth from this rostrum a stream of origi-  nal and stimulating thought which went to form  what might perhaps be called Unesco's doctrinal  guarantee. Now, we have entered the stage of per-  formance; we have advanced from contemplationto  action. We are reviewing our activities, in order  to ascertain whether all this is a fine illusion, as  the sceptics would have it, or whether the spirit  which conceived those theories has found its justi-  fication in deeds. This latter belief is echoed in  my present remarks, in which I have tried to ex-  plain to the Conference the attitude of Cuba, which  is one of confidence in the future of the Organiza-  tion and in those who wish to serve, by acts rather  than by theories, on a plane where patriotic and uni-  versal motives are one.
(11) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Cuba and call upon Mr. Nielsen of Denmark.  PLENARY MEETINGS
(12) Mr. Jakob NIELSEN (Denmark) - Mr. Presi-  dent, fellow delegates, I shall try to be brief. I  want only to make a few specific remarks in this  general debate. First, however, I should like to  join my Swedish friend and colleague, Mr. Diiring,  in congratulating the Director-General and his  Secretariat upon the clear way in which they have  presented the Programme and Budget for the years
1953 and 1954 to the governments of Member States  and to the delegations atthis session ofthe General  Conference. Ithink we may say this this programme  shows us clearly in which way we are going to im-  plement the basic programme adopted two years  ago at Florence. Moreover, we see now the effect  of that concentration of effort for which we have been  striving these last years and to which the Director-  General referredthis morning in his most impres-  sive and important speech.
(13) As one of those who have been able to follow  the development of Unescofrom its very inception,  I know from experience how difficult it was during  the first years of the existence of this great Organi-  zation really to evaluate this-content of the pro-  gramme, really to be sure what we were going to  do, then to compare that with our means and see  the effect which changes in the programme would  have on the budget. I feel that the way in which  priorities have now been given will at least help us  when we have to adapt the programme tothe budget  soon to be voted by this General Conference. I  - welcome therefore the considerable improvement  in the presentation of the main basic document of  our work.
(14) Looking at the programme as a whole, I think  we are most strikingly impressed by the predomi-  nant rôle played by our efforts to help the less  developed countries to raisethe level of their com-  munity life in every respect. It is fair to say that  this trend has met with general approval. It is in  conformity with the bold spirit of the general plans  of the United Nations known to all of you, and I  think we all agree, in conformity with the general  aims which seven years ago called Unesco into be-  ing. Let this be quite clear; I emphasize this  because I now want it to be followed by a warning:  I think we should be careful to avoid a danger, of  which the Director-General spoke this morning -  the danger of neglecting the legitimate interests of  those States which, rightly or wrongly,we are more  or less accustomed to look upon as the most ad-  vanced. I believe it is important that there should  be at all stages in our programme for the coming  years some items which are attractive to these  States.
(15) For example, the help which Unesco can give  in the organization of humanistic studies, as in the  International Council for Philosophy and Humanis-  tic Studies, is widely felt - at least in my country,  and perhaps in the Scandinavian countries as a  whole - to be inadequate. The financial support  given by Unesco to the International Council of  Scientific Unions has been constantly decreasing  - 66   PLENARY MEETINGS II-4  since, in 1945, we had to put up quite a fight to get  that "S" incorporated in the name of Unesco. At  the same time, the number of international organi-  zations of this same mental activity at the highest  level as well as the number of nations adhering to  them has been constantly increasing, with a ten-  dency to include representatives from all parts of  the world. The work of these organizations has  been intensified and, I think, following a sugges-  tion from Unesco, the contributions which these  organizations ask from their own adhering organi-  zations are also rising continually at quite a high  level. It would be wrong to conclude from this that  Unesco can diminish its support. I think I am  right in stating that, in many countries, one of the  chief criteria for judging Unesco is whether or not  the support given to the creative fields in science  and learning is vigorously maintained. I am not  speaking here of the question of the dissemination  of science, but of the very creative act on which,  in the last analysis all our knowledge is based.
(16) Let us revert, to the question of help to less  developed countries. The point I wish to make is  that our methods should not be too rigid. Let me  give an example. If a country asks for Unesco's  help in sending an expert to a team, and if Unesco  announces this vacancy to all or nearly all its  Member States and if most of them present one or  two candidates, it is evident that this procedure in-  volves an enormous waste. I think it should be  possible, from the varied experience which Unesco  has gained in this field in recent years, to use an-  other procedure - not as a general rule but in  suitable cases. Unesco should ask one or a few  countries to try to find an expert in that field, and  rely on their ability and willingness to do so. On  other occasions another group of countries should  be chosen. This, I think, would save us a good deal  of effort and disappointment. I do not wish to say  that this method is unknown to Unesco; but I  think that it should be constantly borne in mind  that we should be careful not to waste the work  which we ask our National Commissions to do.
(17) Another point in this whole complex of ques-  tions is the framing of the conditions under which  the different countries can offer their help in our  international effort for assistance to less developed  countries. This assistance is usually given to the  group as a whole, without any specifications. In  many cases, especially as far as the smaller:coun-  tries are concerned, it would in my opinion be wise  not to bar the possibility of a slight change. Some  countries may wish to concentrate the help they  can give on a specific region of the globe. One of  the reasons for this is that small countries can  offer only comparatively small financial contribu-  tions, and they may have some feeling of frustra-  tion, some feeling of dissipation of their energy, if  this effort is split into very small impacts in very  different places. A method which we ought to take  into consideration would be to agree -. in suitable  cases, and notas a general rule - to allow different  single donor countries, which are small enough not  tobe suspected of wishing to gain political influence,  to concentrate their effort on special regions re-  questing help, and receive from these regions can-  didates for education and training.
(18) There is another reason for this. When the  representative of the World Health Organization  spoke to us yesterday, he made a remark which in  my view was a very wise one. He said that it is  incorrectto speak of donor countries and recipient  countries. I fully agree with this. We nevertheless  use these words. But let me draw your attention  to the fact that the activity of the participating  State in this whole process of technical assistance  is a double one. One part of it, the exterior part,  aims at helping countries in need of assistance in  a certain respect. This whole question, however,  has another side. We want the influence of these  efforts to be felt inside the donor countries; we  want the population of these countries to be aware  of their duties as members of the world community  of peoples. We must not therefore ask for their  support only in an abstract sphere. We ought to  find ways which appeal, which arouse the imagina-  tion of the common man. This is best done by con-  centrating and focussing this effort on specific  problems.
(19) Similar observations apply to the general  methods of our Organization. Quite often, when  looking through the programme of Unesco, I have  been struck by the important part played by the  method of calling meetings of international experts.  I am fully aware of the necessity of doing so in  many cases, perhaps even in the majority of cases.  Again, we should not make that procedure a rigid  rule. For instance, when I looked through the  programme I found under the heading of Education  a very interesting section dealing with psychologi-  cal investigations during the period of early child-  hood. I think many of the problems listed there  are very important. But I ask myself - and I find  some indications in the programme that those who  framed it seemed to have asked themselves the  same question - whether, instead of beginning this  series of investigations, important as they are, by  calling an international meeting of experts, it would  not be possible to pick one or very few specific  countries, and ask them: "Are you in a position to  make preliminary investigations on that subject, by  some procedure of your own, by your own experts,  possibly, even at your own expense?"
(20) You may say that Member States have not been  very willing to increase their financial contribution.  This is another question. If it is not a question of  paying intoa common pool, but of rendering a spe-  cific service in a specific field, it is much easier  to find the means to carry out the task inside one's  own country. When such preliminary investigations  have been made in different countries, then Unes-  co's meeting of international experts comes into  the pictureto synthesize the results and to provide  for their publication and following up. Under  - 67 +   II-4  these conditions, the international experts will not  meet withempty hands. Again I want to stress that  this is a method which may be employed in single  cases and should not constitute a new rule. I do  not want to substitute one rigid rule for another.  If you object that, in accepting this and the other  point I made, Unesco would betray its internation-  al character, then I would say that you can always,  in choosing the first investigators, consult if nec-  essary those international organization with which  Unesco collaborates. In this way you do not betray  the wholly international character of Unesco's  effort.
(21) Let me confine myself to these remarks. My  comments do not apply specifically to the budget  which we are going to discuss, but are general re-  marks to be kept in mind, now as well as in the  framing of future programmes. We should be  careful to keep a sound balance in our aims and, at  the same time, a certain flexibility inour methods.  It is by so doing, Mr. President, that I think we  shall get the best results.
(22) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Denmark and call upon the delegate of Lebanon,  Mgr Maroun.
(23) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) - (Translation from  the French) Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen,  the Lebanese delegation wishes to endorse the  message addressed to the Director-General by the  Chairman of the Executive Board, expressing his  thanks for the great work accomplished by Unesco  during the past year. It also wishes to echo the  tribute paid to the Secretariat for the preparation  of the Programme and Budget for 1953-1954. Both  the Director-General's Report and the Draft Pro-  gramme and Budget will no doubt be the subject of  many questions at the Conference and will give  rise to animated discussions. But both remain an  irrefutable proof of the faith we must place in  Unesco.
(24) Reading these two documents, the attention  of the Lebanese delegation was drawn to certain  problems which it thinks have an essential bearing  on the future of the Organization. My delegation  has asked me to bring these problems briefly to  your notice.
(25) The results described in the Director-Gener-  al's Report raise the vital problem of the size of  Unesco. After the six years of Unesco's existence  we are forced to admit that the problem of its  growth has not yet been seen in its true perspec-  tive. We say that Unesco is six years old; that  means that the earth has turned round the sun six  times since Unesco came into being. But that is  not the true measure of the life of an institution  like Unesco. The age of an institution depends on  the multitude of actions and reactions that have en-  abled it to live and to assert itself, since life is  affirmed in an infinite series of creative acts.  Unesco is in the nature of a State or governmental  PLENARY MEETINGS  agency. For that reason, it has apparently been  thought that Unesco should be static and conserva-  tive rather than a dynamic innovator. Do we not  often think of it as a kind of international depart-  ment dealing with education, science and culture?  This ambiguity must be cleared up if we are to  understand the real nature and implications of  Unesco's mission. Apart from the fact that it has  a structure similar to that of a State department,  Unesco has an essential function going beyond the  political contingencies by which it is conditioned,  since the life of Unesco does not turn upon the con-  tingent or the immediate; it is a life of growth,  It must take a broad view of its activities because  it has to take a long view. It cannot abandon this  attitude without denying its own essential purpose.  The suspicion and the obstinate refusal it encoun-  ters are no reasons for giving up the attempt to  expand in order to embrace everything within its  sphere, any more than all the hatred in the world  could justify, in the Christian view, a sin against  charity. This essential condition on which the life  of our Organization depends is clearly brought out  in the Director-General's Report. Unesco is now  in the position to say exactly what it is, what it  does, and what it can do, without fear or favour.
(26) Thatis why Unesco has, in my view, the right  to demand the resources that will enable it to live  and work. This demand is the second problem be-  fore the Conference. It is not something fortuitous  arising in the course of our work; it is the very  foundation of the whole future development of our  work in the world. Nor is it peculiar to this year,  for the delegations are faced with the same prob-  lem at each session of the General Conference.  Looking back on six years of existence, we can  see what a salutaryeffect criticism and budget cuts  have had upon the Organization. Unesco was com-  pelled in self-defence to reshape itself by defining  its activities and drawing up a clear-cut programme.  At the present stage of its organization and develop-  ment when it has acquired authority and is doing  more effective work in the world, our duty is to  provide it with the means to continue what it has  begun. If it contributed nothing it would not be en-  titled to ask for anything. But its demands are,  and should be, related to what it contributes that is  new, necessary and beneficial to humanity.
(27) For my part, gentlemen, I feel uneasy about  the means of existence of an organization like ours.  At this moment everything indicates that any ma-  terial weakening in Unesco would be likely not only  to damage its prestige but to threaten its health and  even its existence. Nevertheless, when we have  justified the development of the Organization and  asked for the resources it needs in order to live  and work, shall we have stated all the conditions on  which its existence depends? Is the life of Unesco  fully expressedin its programme and budget? It is  perfectly clear. What we see in the Programme  and Budget is merely the expression of a perfectly  conceived and executed technical operation.  - 68 -   PLENARY MEETINGS I1-4
(28) You are aware, gentlemen, that I have a fairly  close acquaintance with Unesco. Consequently I  cannot resign myself to seeing the Organization  confined within the limits of its programme and  budget. Lastly, there is a fundamental problem I  should like to raise, which I think ought to be the  object of lengthy discussion. There is an "official"  Unesco that is an assembly of States and familiar  to us all. We all know what an extraneous body  which deals with the profound realities of education,  science and culture can be. And you know, as I do,  that there is a kind of interior work which goes on  unseen by inattentive or indifferent eyes, and which  causes people to feel united by fraternal ties and  admitted to a real human communion with one an-  other.
(29) We shallnever achieve that communion through  external bodies. Beyond the group of States, be-  yond this "official" Unesco, lies the real ‘Unesco  which is enshrined inno externalbody, a fact which  should be of considerable importance to us. The  true Unesco is nonconformist in spirit, and it is  that Unesco which is asking you for the means of  existence. We shall not have done our work until  we have enabled Unesco to have a policy of its own.  On the surface I amreferringto a problem of whose  complexity and seriousness you are well aware and  which is on this Conference's agenda. But in the  present state of the world the problem I have in  mind is a more general one. No one has any illu-  sions today about the now obvious fact that States,  all States, are obliged to bring their individual po-  licy into line with one, two or three big so-called  "international" policies. The policy of sovereignty  is out of date; all that remains now is power poli-  tics, which inevitably means a policy of "blocs".
(30) Unesco was set up on a basis entirely outside  politics, to answer a fundamental need of the life  of the spirit. That is how it came into being, and  that is how it has developed. It must be obvious  that the values for which Unesco was created will  never be secure unless Unesco continues to follow  the course intended for it at its creation. But we  must go further still, so important for us is the  question raised by Unesco's function in the world.  No doubt you have wondered, as I have, why States  are so anxious to become Members of Unesco. I  do not believe that the Organization can be reduced  to a mere list of Member States and non-govern-  mental organizations. We have undeniably in this  assembly a common faith, a common hope and a  common will. But it is to the interest of all of us  to make clear what this faith and this hope are, if  our work is not to remain sterile. What then is our  faith, our hope? Our common faith is unimaginable  unless we believe in the goodwill of all. Goodwill  is indispensable; for Unesco it means reciprocity,  exchanges, assistance and mutual help, which pro-  mote understanding and fraternity.
(31) Youfully understand now how Unesco, with the  programme it is submitting and the resources it is  requesting, hopes to work to make the brotherhood  of man a reality. That is the purpose of this pro-  gramme, in its main sections of fundamental edu-  cation, technical assistance and education for living  in a world community. Gentlemen, mankind burns  with the desire to realize this aspiration, which  arises from the remotest depths of its history and  is expressed in two ways: horizontally in the hu-  man community, and vertically in the exalted re-  gard towards the heights. Let us devote ourselves  with love to the task of stimulating this desire in-  creasingly in man. Let us devote ourselves with  love to experiencing it in our own flesh and inspir-  ing our own actions with it. It is the best thing our  humanity possesses, because it is the meaning of  God's purpose for His creature.
(32) The PRESIDENT - I should like to thank Mgr  Maroun for his magnificent statement concerning  Unesco's activities and I now call upon Mr. Sommer-  felt, the delegate of Norway.
(33) Mr. Alf SOMMERFELT (Norway) - I should  first of all like to join in the tributes paid to our  Director-General for the magnificent statement he  made on Unesco's aims, activities and spirit.
(34) For several years now we have made very  serious efforts to concentrate our programme, and  I am happy to say that our efforts have shown con-  siderable results. It is obvious that such concen-  tration is especially necessary in the case of a  young organization which needs support from the  public opinion of the Member States. The Norwegian  delegation to the Preparatory Commission in  London, on behalf of the Norwegian Government,  therefore proposed that Unesco's activity, at least  during its first formative period, should be di-  rected towards the solution of a few spectacular  international problems in the educational field,  whereas the continuation and development of the  more purely intellectual collaboration which ex-  isted before the war should be taken over by the  international non-governmental organizations. The  idea was that collective work in science and schol-  arship is done better and more cheaply by special-  ists than by a body of international civil servants  and that a certain percentage of Unesco's budget  might be set aside to cover subventions to those  organizations.
(35) The Norwegian Government finds that the  reasons which led it to make such proposals are  still valid today and that theyare still more urgent.  The great problem of our time is how to assist the  less developed countries to reach the standard of  life and of education of those countries which have  attained the highest standards. If this problem is  not solved, humanity will have to face terrible  crises, and Unesco's efforts to obtain peace and  security may be vain. The Norwegian Government,  therefore, is strongly in favour of a greater con-  centration of Unesco's activity on projects in the  fields of education, science and culture which will  further as quickly as possible the great aims of the  =69,—   II-4  programme of assistance to less developed coun-  tries. May I be allowed to recall that not only does  the Norwegian Government take part in the general  programme of the United Nations in this field, but  that the Norwegian Parliament has allocated spe-  cial funds, considerable in proportion to its budget,  to finance a special project of assistance to a coun-  try in Asia.
(36) The Norwegian Government would be in favour  of strengthening several of the projects in the pro-  gramme which correspond to this purpose by re-  ducing or suppressing others. It is well aware of  the difficulties which such a procedure will cause  in our present work, but it thinks that the problems  of the less developed countries are too burning not  to be the object of our most important efforts. We  must remember that a particularly close co-opera-  tion with the so-called under-developed countries  will also benefit the highly developed ones. It will  further peace and security, understanding and  tolerance, and will enrich the culture of all nations.
(37) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Norway and now call upon Mr. Victor Doré, the  Canadian delegate.
(38) Mr. Victor DORE (Canada) - (Translation  from the French) Mr. President, Mr. Director-  General, fellow delegates, in his speech of welcome  yesterday, Mr. André Marie, Minister of Education  in the French Government, said that it was the  greatest privilege for France to house Unesco in  its capital. ° As a Vice-President of the General  Conference and Head of the Canadian delegation, I  feel it my duty, a particularly moving duty for a  French-speaking Canadian, to return the compli-  ment and tell the French Government that Unesco  feels it a privilege to have been able to make Paris  the centre of its activities. France, Mr. President,  is the centre at which the world's great ideas meet  and merge; it is as if ideas became clearer and  more humane in the crucible of French thought. In  its work of defending security by bringing together  cultures through exchanges, Unesco could not have  found a more favourable climate than that of Paris  for its operations. On behalf of my country, I  should like to pay a special tribute to the President  of the General Conference, who is the eminent rep-  resentative of a country to which Canada is linked  by the ties of the Commonwealth. I should also  like to congratulate the Chairman of the Executive  Board, my friend Paulo Carneiro, on his excellent  speech this morning. I have sufficient experience  of the problems with which the Executive Board is  faced to be able to understand to the full the mean-  ing of his appeal, to which we listened with the  liveliest sympathy. In conclusion, we all know that  if Unesco is such a vital organization, this is large-  ly due to the dauntless devotion and energy of its  Director-General, to whom I should like to pay  homage on behalf of you all.
(39) With your permission, Mr. President, I shall  PLENARY MEETINGS  now refer to a privilege which has been ours since  the opening of the First Session of Unesco. The  two languages - French and English - being official  in my country, I shall continue my opening remarks  in English.
(40) Our distinguished colleague the retiring Pres-  ident, Mr. Sargeant, in the course of his opening  address to the Conference, pointed to the steady  progress of Unesco, as an indication that theforces  making for peace are in the ascendancy, and that  the forces making for war can be steadily over-  come. This statement is so close to my own way  of thinking that I should like to stress it ‘again,  The forces which would drive us to war can be  steadily overcome, not merely by mechanical res-  olutions, but also by the widening and deepening of  positive international collaboration, as in Unesco,  between three score or more States in a number of  vital projects designed to assist those countries  whose natural development has been retarded by  war or the aftermath of war, and governments re-  cently established and therefore in need of expert  but disinterested aid. In this sharing of accumu-  lated experience, in this effort through Unesco  to provide technical assistance where it is most  needed to stimulate various programmes of funda-  mental education, it does not seem to me a real-  istic approach to divide the Member States simply  into two groups, one group contributing the bulk of  the assistance, and the other receiving it. It is  true that some nations are more favoured with  material prosperity and a high level of industrial  and economic development; it is only reasonable  to consider that such nations are in a position to  play a most active part in the general programme  of Unesco. Nevertheless, this is not a one-way  process, that is, merely giving and receiving: it  is rather a sharing of experience. It provides an  opportunity for all participating governments to  learn to look at their own problems - and each  country has more than enough - with greater pa-  tience and with a wider knowledge as the result of  association in Unesco's work. In the case of coun-  tries which provide a number of experts to serve  in special projects in another part of the world,  these experts return to their own countries infi-  nitely enriched by reason of their experience. It  is not a two-way process, or a question of profit  and loss. It is rather a type of activity in which all  participants profit in some way. In the sharing of  experience through Unesco, the great majority of  the countries of the world are getting to know each  other and each other's problems, by taking a prac-  tical interest in the solution of these problems.  Without perhaps being aware of it,they are forging  powerful links of friendship and peace which I am  confident will resist the strain and stress of this  difficult age in which we live.
(41) I should like to pass from the general to the  particular and mention briefly what seem to me to  be some of the major contributions which Unesco  has made in the past year. In our view, the serv-  =70 =   PLENARY MEETINGS  ices offered by Unesco to the countries which are  in need of assistance to develop their own educa-  tional facilities deserve our particular attention. I  am referring here to the aid given by Unesco to-  wards eradicating illiteracy andimproving technical  and vocational training in about forty countries of  the world, to the developing of the existing centres  of fundamental education, and to the granting of  fellowships and scholarships under our Technical  Assistance plan. These measures are in line with  the basic aims of Unesco, and all possible encour-  agement, within the scope of our finances, should  be given to them.
(42) As for the contributions which Canada has  been able to make to the work of Unesco within its  territory, I should mention first the grants made:  by the Government of Canada to our Canadian Uni-  versities and Colleges. Further to the recom-  mendation made in 1951 by the Royal Commission  for the development of the arts, letters and sci-  ences, I believe it was decided, for the first time  in the history of education in Canada, that the Fed-  eral Government should, after having obtained the  agreement of the Provincial Government concerned,  assist our Universities financially. In accordance  with a recommendation from the same Royal Com-  mission, the Government of Canada has also esta-  blished in 1952 a system of scholarships and fellow-  ships for our most brilliant scholars and students.  The first Canadians to benefit from these scholar-  ships have already started to arrive in France and  the Netherlands. It is only fair to add that the Pro-  vincial Governments have been particularly gene-  rous in 1951 and 1952, in the field of fellowships  and scholarships, and that they have greatly ex-  panded the number of scholarships available from  their departments of education. The Provincial  Governments have also continued to give financial  encouragement to our voluntary associations con-  cerned with the progress of our national culture.
(43) Finally, I cannot find a better occasion than  in this short speech to pay homage to the Canadian  Council for reconstruction through Unesco, which  wound up its activities in the field of education and  relief in 1951. The co-operation given by this or-  ganization to the measures initiated by Unesco in  this field was supported by the Canadian public in  a most generous fashion.
(44) Our general approach to the Programme and  Budget for 1953-1954 is substantially the same as  last year. We are gratified that, since the Fifth  Session of the General Conference in Florence,  good progress has been made in defining with  greater precision the most appropriate fields of  endeavour from which the Organization may rea-  sonably expect tangible results. We are pleased to  have heard from the Director-General, this morn-  ing, that much will continue to be done in that di-  rection. We believe that, in establishing a clear  conception of the relative degrees of priority and  urgency of the various projects, Unesco may rely  on ever-increasing support from the public. This  II-4  support is essential to the achievement of its high  principles and to future progress. For this reason  the Canadian Government welcomes the suggestion  of the United States of America that the present  Conference should pay particular attention to the  question of priorities, and hopes that discussion on  this subject will lead to some positive decision in  the furtherance of the best interests of the Organ-  ization.
(45) In more purely financial terms, my Govern-  ment hopes that the General Conference will aim  at stabilizing the budgets for 1953-1954 at the 1952  level. To achieve this it will be necessary to con-  centrate available resources upon the most urgent  and productive fields of endeavour. My Government  recognizes the difficulties which the Organization  is facing as a result of the special circumstances  in which a few Member States find themselves, and  over which they or the Organization may not have  any direct control. It is prepared to examine each  case on its particular merits.
(46) Canada is one of the oldest members of Unes-  co, and by its various contributions to it can be  rightly considered as one of its faithful supporters.  No doubt many comments have been made from  time to time in the past by Canadian delegations.  I believe, however, it can be said that these com-  ments have been motivated not by a negative or  destructive spirit, but rather by the general desire  to make Unesco as efficient and serviceable an in-  strument as possible. I should like to take this  opportunity of assuring you that my Government  views Unesco with continued confidence and lends  it its entire support. It is the urgent wish of my  delegation that as a result of the work of this Con-  ference Unesco maybecome an even more effective  Organization. Mr. President, fellow delegates, my  delegation will endeavour in every possible way to  serve to the best of its capacity those aims, at  once lofty and yet very human, for the realization  of which this Organization was created.
(47) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Canada and now call upon the delegate of Italy.
(48) Mr. A. CASATI (Italy) - (Translation from the  French) Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, you  will readily understand that I must begin by ex-  pressing my gratitude for the warm sympathy that  has been extended to us Italians, at Unesco, on the  sad occasion of the death of Count Stefano Jacini.  He was a friend to Unesco; he had faith in it and  hope. I am overwhelmed with the responsibility of  taking his place before you. And it is with a mind  full of him, of his ideas, ideas which he would have  defended here, that I speak today, in a place which  had always been his, at the head of the Italian dele-  gation to Unesco's General Conference.
(49) Mr. President, once more, as we come before  this assembly, which year by year marks in an al-  most physical manner, by its growth, the progress  made, we feel we must express our thanks to the  Er Ti   IT-4  Director-General for his past work and give him  words of encouragement in the tasks that still await  him. We owe him much: for his will and capacity  to achieve; for his perseverence, his devotion to  duty and his very conception of that duty. There is  no need to praise him; his actsthemselves do that.  All we need do here is to thank him sincerely, and  we are most happy to do so, Mr. Torres Bodet,  and to tell you how much we appreciate what you  have done.
(50) Unesco goes forward. Already its activities  and programme have brought with them achieve-  ments which only yesterday seemed hard to bring  about and which today already put our Organization  in the van of progress. It is not perhaps, as far  in the van as we should like it to be - the regret is  a natural one; but is not the desire to act the mo-  tive force of action itself? At any rate, the report  on the Organization's activities and the programme  are there to prove to us that real progress has  been made, to give us grounds for satisfaction and  to strengthen our hopes. One feels that things are  becoming clearer, and that every time we meet  here Unesco is more closely at grips with the mor-  al values which it is its function to defend. Inter-  .change between peoples is taking place, opening up  the kind of horizons we hope for for Unesco; only  a lack of desire for it can make that interchange  impossible or unavailing. Consequently we must  not, out of a desire to expand that interchange to a  world scale, delay or confuse your action. All the  same, we do not believe that interchange is suffi-  cient in itself; to be worth while, it must be di-  rected towards a goal which can lie only in the  moral values which are the essence of the human  spirit, which are its safeguard and enable it to  flower in a free world that cares about its dignity.  We are prepared to be completely tolerant, but  our tolerance must not bring us to a slowing down  of our activities, to the benefit of those who are  opposed to it.
(51) All science, all education and all culture  necessarily imply a sense of direction. And in a  free world that sense of direction is imparted -  quite apart from technical considerations - by the  pre-eminence of the spirit. Unesco is bound by the  terms of its Constitution to abstain from any part-  isan policy. But surely it would be a grave and  far-reaching error to assume that for this reason  the Organization can have no policy of its own.  The object of Unesco's policy, in our belief, is  mankind: mankind, whose education must be com-  pleted, whose condition must be improved, whose  creative possibilities must be safeguarded.
(52) Andso everything brings us backto consider-  ations of human dignity and freedom, which are the  definition of that science, education and culture to  which we all aspire. We think that the programme  that has been presented to us is on the whole a  good one, and meets, to a great extent, the needs  of our activity. It is therefore in no spirit of crit-  icism but, we beg you to believe, with a genuine  PLENARY MEETINGS  desire to co-operate, that we put forward a few  observations.
(53) We should like to see, so far as is permitted  by our restricted budget, a greater participation  by experts and technicians coming from outside our  Organization and maintaining more direct contact  with our peripheral institutions and our National  Commissions. We should like a different publica-  tions policy - a reduction in the number of titles  for the sake of a wider circulation of the publica-  tions in languages other thanthe working languages,  making them accessible to a public which, owing  to linguistic difficulties, often remains unaware of  our efforts. We should like Unesco to induce the  non-governmental organizations towork in increas-  ingly close collaboration with the National Com-  missions. We wish to ask for the expansion of the  exchange of persons programme. And we hope  that practical steps will be taken to help those  victims of our present-day conditions, the refugee  intellectuals, who so often appear to reflect the  tragedy of a world that cannot succeed in prevent-  ing the destruction of its finest elements.
(54) In our opinion, this Conference should discuss  these and certain other minor changes. The Italian  delegation will take the opportunity of expressing  its views during the meetings of the Commissions  that are now about to begin their work. But we  think we should emphasize without delay the import-  ance that we attribute, and that we should like to  see attributed, to an increasingly close co-opera-  tion between Unesco and the intellectual leaders of  the various countries, which cannot but benefit the  general public.
(55) While referring to this subject, we think we  should stress the importance, in our eyes, of the  results of the proceedings of the International Con-  férence of Artists, held recently on the initiative  of Unesco. Through this Conference Unesco has  turned - or better, has extended a hand - towards  the creative artists. And this élite, so often dis-  paraged in other quarters, thus appealed to for  constructive collaboration, has proved its confi-  dence in our Organization. The appeal did not fall  upon deaf ears; we hope to hear of far-reaching  results, both within Unesco and outside. This  cannot fail to be a great source of hope - indeed,  I will venture to say, of confidence - for our Org-  anization.- These fine minds are linked to the  humblest of mankind - and the link must be conti-  nually strengthened - by an ideal which they share  and which runs through the whole programme of  Unesco. All the efforts that are being made to  build up a better world must be welded by our work  programmes into a consistent whole.
(56) It might be said that modern life is continually  changing its structural outlines; in building up the  new international society, we are constantly com-  ing upon new vertical and horizontal planes. If we  look upon these as obstacles, as complications, we  shall be strongly tempted to that discouragement  of which Mr. Torres Bodet spoke this morning.  - 72 =   PLENARY MEETINGS  But if we count them, confidently, as avenues  opened up and steps to climb, courage will prevail  and we shall be saved, We believe in the collective  energy which can and must emanate from our  efforts, we believe in collective international  action and in the imperative necessity of the spiri-  tual ideal. It is that which, for us, constitutes the  living appeal of Unesco.
(57) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Italy and call upon the delegate of Afghanistan,  Dr. Mohammed Anas Khan.
(58) Mohammed ANAS Khan (Afghanistan) - (Tran-  slation from thé French) Mr. President, ladies  and gentlemen, as Head of the Afghan delegation  I have the honour to convey my country's best  wishes for the success of the Conference, and to  express the cratitude felt by the people of Afghan-  istan for the work of Unesco. We appreciate and  respect the ardour with which the members of this  Organization, stimulated by their distinguished  Director-General, are working in the cause of  peace, freedom and the moral and material pros-  perity of mankind.
(59) It is the duty of all Member States to share  in this ideological crusade, in order to overcome  the obstacles to a friendly understanding between  nations. The Government and people of Afghanis-  tan are in full sympathy with you, and are follow-  ing with interest the various activities of the United  Nations and its Specialized Agencies. The pro-  gramme which relates to the under-developed  areas and the technical assistance programme are  two with which we are particularly concerned;  arid zone research and fundamental education are  items of Unesco's activity which are of vital import-  ance to our part of the world. We wish also to  convey our thanks for the technical assistance  given by the other Specialized Agencies of the  United Nations, such as the World Health Organ-  ization, the Food and Agriculture Organization, the  United Nations International Children's Emergen-  cy Fund, etc. In all these activities undertaken by  the Specialized Agencies we see promise of object-  ive development in the future and reason for confi-  dence in the success of the United Nations.
(60) Mr. President, the implementation of Unesco's  Programme rests with the Member States; only  with their co-operation can the United Nations or  Unesco achieve success. Furthermore, the ex-  perience gained by Unesco and the Member States  when carrying out the programmes of previous  years serves to clarify points that at first seemed  obscure; and it is in the light of this experience,  and with due regard for local conditions, that it  becomes possible to perfect the technique of our  work.
(61) It is the duty of Member States to submit to  one another any observations that may, in their  opinion, assist the smooth operation of the system.  On the basis of our own experience I will venture
11-4  to put forward some observations which it might  be well to take into account, in the interests of the  programme we are now contemplating.
(62) I have noticed that the programmes of the  various Specialized Agencies of the United Nations,  most of which have a common aim, are being  carried out, in the different countries, almost  without relation one to another, so that the neces-  sary intercommunication among these Agencies  is not fully maintained. There are no regulations  providing for close collaboration between those  national bodies which are responsible for the local  application of the programmes of WHO, FAO and  so on. This does not mean that these organizations  are reluctant to work together; on the contrary,  they are eager to help each other. But in many  cases they are not fully informed with regard to  the programmes of the other Specialized Agencies.  This lack of co-ordination prevents the concentra-  tion of all efforts towards a common aim, and  sometimes results in overlapping - or even in the  omission of parts of the programme, while each  organization waits for another to begin, Nearly all  our countries have National Commissions for  Unesco. Do we need to have similar Commissions  for other Specialized Agencies, since they all  emanate from a single international organization,  the United Nations?
(63) I do not wish to propose the creation of Na-  tional Commissions for every Specialized Agency,  but I should like to call the attention of this Con-  ference to the need for studying the question and  finding a means of ensuring close co-ordination  between the programmes being applied by different  Specialized Agencies in Member States.
(64) The programmes of technical assistance,  fundamental education, and arid zone research  cannot be left to the sole responsibility of Unesco;  they require the close collaboration of the other  Specialized Agencies of the United Nations. Each  of these organizations is working on its own, and  I suspect that the National Commissions are not  always informed of the programmes of the other  Specialized Agencies. Certain projects aredepend-  ent for their success uponthe co-operation of those  organizations, and our task would be facilitated by  any effort to reach an understanding. We have  seen how misunderstandings can sometimes arise  in connexion with projects requiring the participa-  tion of several Specialized Agencies, and we hope  for a satisfactory solution of this problem which,  I think, deserves to be discussed bythe represent-  atives of the Member States.
(65) There is another question to which I should  like to draw the attention of the Conference: the  question of copyright. Unesco's programme calls  for the free circulation of publications and ideas,  and the majority of Member States have signed the  Convention for the removal of customs duties on  educational materials. The under-developed coun-  tries are in great need of translations of scientific  books published abroad. On the other hand, they  Sas
11-4 PLENARY MEETINGS  have very few authors worthy of being translated  into the languages of the advanced countries. Scien-  tific books carry the highest royalties of all. The  effect of the Copyright Convention is to cut off the  majority of these countries from free access to  translations of recent scientific works, so that the  Convention becomes an impediment to the free flow  of ideas. It can easily be seen from the figures  that there is no reciprocity between Member States  in this respect. I do not mean to suggest that  authors ought not to be protected, I am simply  drawing the attention of the Conference to the para-  doxical effect of this Convention, and to the fact  that the under-developed countries will find diffi-  culty in accepting it.
(66) Mr. President, I will not recapitulate the  report we have already submitted to the Conference  concerning the work connected with Unesco which  has been undertaken in my country. We have made  the utmost possible effort to model our cultural  activities on Unesco's recommendations, but allow-  ance must be made for restrictions, mainly of a  financial nature, imposed by local conditions. It  must be remembered, too, that the available per-  sonnel is limited, so that we are forced to lay  heavy burdens on people who already bear great  responsibilities; these difficulties must be under-  stood by those who are to put before the General  Conference the budget of Unesco and the list of  staff who will have to carry out the new projects.  The task thatlies ahead of us calls for energy, time  and self-sacrifice. We must be patient and never  give up hope; but on the other hand we must confine  ourselves to concrete, practicable projects, for any  ambitious scheme that falls short of achievement  is a cause of disappointment.
(67) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Afghanistan and now call upon the delegate of  Ecuador.
(68) Mr. Camilo PONCE ENRIQUEZ (Ecuador) -  (Translation from the Spanish) Mr. President,  Mr. Director-General, ladies and gentlemen, I  have taken no active part in the life of the United  Nations sirice June 1945 when I had the honour to  sign the Charter in my country's name. Today,  however, it is my privilege to represent Ecuador  at this the Seventh Session of the General Confer-  ence of Unesco, and by special command of the  President and Congress of my country, I bring  greetings to all here present with my sincerest  prayers that the Holy Spirit may assist and guide  our work, for the good of humanity, peace among  men andthe greatness and prosperity of the nations  of the world. More particularly do I bring greet-  ings to Mr. Jaime Torres Bodet, Director-General  of Unesco. As a distinguished citizen of Mexico  who has won fame alike as a statesman and as a  man of letters, he is of the elect of Latin America,  and now he has crowned a great career by his  directorship of one of the noblest enterprises of “dies.  our day - promoting the increase of education,  science and culture through the five continents in  the name of the profound significance of human  dignity and of man's pre-eminent mission on earth,
(69) The statement of general aims and the means  deemed fittest to achieve them, with which the  Charter of the United Nations opens, is fair enough:  "We, the peoples of the United Nations, determined  to save succeeding generations from the scourge  of war, which twice in our lifetime has brought un-  told sorrow to mankind, and to reaffirm faith in  fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth  of the human person; in the equal rights of men  and women and of nations large and small, and to  establish conditions under which justice and res-  pect for the obligations arising from treaties and  other sources of international law can be main-  tained, and to promote social progress and better  standards of life in larger freedom, and for these  ends to practise tolerance and live together in  peace with one another as good neighbours, and to  unite our strength to maintain international peace  and security and to ensure, by the acceptance of  principles and the institution of methods, that  armed force shall not be used, save in the common  interest, and to employ international machinery  for the promotion of the economic and social ad-  vancement of all peoples, have resolved to com-  bine our efforts to accomplish these aims".
(70) It is regrettable but necessary to have to  emphasize that, on the political side, the measures  adopted were dictated less by legal principles than  by empirical considerations and the mood of the  moment. The coming of the true reign of law was  blocked bythe institution of the veto born of consi-  derations of prestige, of attempted appreciations,  from insufficient data, of the course of future  events, and perhaps of an excess. of self-importance  in certain quarters. Not only did the institution of  the veto introduce a degree of differentiation at  variance with the principle of equality before the  law, but time has shown that, as a result of it, in  the most significant decisions of the Security Coun-  cil it is not the will of the majority which prevails  but the minority view of one party, to obstruct and  negative right intentions and keep international  peace and order in perpetual instability. It was  natural that the nations which had stood together  in the World War, coming together hot from the  battle to deliberate on the problems of victory and  peace should for the moment have excluded those  nations which for any reason had held back from  the struggle and those who had lost by defeat their  innate right to attend; making the plans and blue-  prints for reconstruction was clearly the preroga-  tive of the victors alone. What was not desirable  was the policy of continued exclusion of certain  other peoples from the United Nations, for without  these peoples, the whole notion of an international  legal jurisdiction, of an all-embracing law of na-  tions, indeed of world understanding, sickens and  "Politics" may have been the reason for  mr   PLENARY MEETINGS  excluding these nations but the decision squares  neither with justice nor with political wisdom. We  need to recognize that there is something wrong,  just as there was at Versailles, and that unless we  correct it, the day may come when the United  Nations - that "free union of States for the full  achievement of their ends and satisfaction of their  needs through the pooling of their efforts" - may  see its machinery break down and its noblest aspi-  rations and splendid plans crumble away before the  armed world conflict and barbarism which they  sought and seek to avoid.
(71) The international scene is stormy and even  the new political instruments of the United Nations  Charter such as the coercive procedures under  Chapter VII are proving feeble and ineffective.  They are useful enough, of course, to prevent war  and re-establish peace in the case of conflicts be-  tween small peoples, but not when the parties in-  volved are the powers which, in fact, control the  key machinery of the Organization; for in the latter  case what counts is not right and justice but force.  For proof we have the sombre incident of Korea to  show us that a veto used systematically, and - what  is worse - legally, not only bars the doors to the  community of law to many nations but also threa-  tens to paralyse collective action against aggres-  sors, disturbers of the peace, whose concurrence  is needed for the use of collective measures of  coercion. Korea is the very pattern of aggression,  a flagrant breach of the peace. Yet days, weeks,  months and years go by: men die in thousands, and  the scourge of war, not for the second but for the  third time "in our lifetime", is inflicting "untold  sorrow on mankind". The Security Council and the  General Assembly of the United Nations meet regu-  larly, but they cannot set in motion the "political"  machinery of the Charter; and so things will run  on until the attacked surrender their rights or the  aggressor is overthrown by a force greater than  his own.
(72) If the concerns of the United Nations were  merely political and not linked with other profound  aims of greater real weight and importance, we  should have every reason for utter despair. Hap-  pily, however, the United Nations have larger views  on how international peace and order may be a-  chieved, and work in hand for the re-education of  mankind which reflects their non-political ideals -  the ideals on the cultural, ethical and economic  planes which, put into practise, are indispensable  for the firm building of our future peace and pros-  perity. Peace is not something imposed from  without but a need born of a particular condition  of the human soul. A peace imposed by force, a  peace without law or justice, a peace in which  hunger and sickness are neglected and in which  men lack houses, culture, light for the soul, that  peace is not solid and enduring. Peace is never a  first cause but a consequence of a multitude of  causes which, at the local level, determine its  reign within the nations and which, ona wider scale,
11-4  must determine its reign throughout the world.
(73) That is why Unesco is, to my mind, really  important. It is indeed still in the phase of growth  and experiment but full of promise and consolation.  Without depreciating in any way the other Special-  ized Agencies which, incidentally, co-operate with  Unesco to achieve its aims, it is to Unesco that the  chief rôle falls. For Unesco's concern is with the  inmost soul of man, to mould it by culture and  education, without which material progress be-  comes a menace; for there is nothing more danger-  ous than power in the hands of men or nations who  lack the ballast of an instructed conscience. None  can dispute the amazing material progress of our  epoch, of which the symbol is a dream come true -  the control and splitting of the atom. But with a  discovery like this, what converts it from an un-  mixed evil, an agent of war, destruction and death,  into a thing of promise for constructive ends and  for the life of men? In either case the magnitude  of the discovery, "per se', remains the same, but  in the second an additional factor comes into play  to exorcize the danger and direct the new power  into constructive channels. That factor is culture,  the education of man, to elevate his mind and con-  vert his primitive instincts into impulses of gener-  osity and fraternity.
(74) Unesco's very importance carries with it vast  responsibilities and hence implies selfless dedica-  tion to the task and cool-headed realism, for if  there be any threat to the Organization it is that of  dispersion of effort and the contrast which might  be drawn between what it aims at and what it a-  chieves. It is a natural, almost an inevitable,  danger but one easily countered.
(75) In the first place, the mere geographical ex-  tent of Unesco's field of action, the fact that it is  world-wide, dictates the desirability of local de-  centralization. Unesco must remain a unitary and  firmly knit organism but must be sufficiently flex-  ible and comprehensive to allow of relatively inde-  pendent regional organization since, while the  problems of education and culture are, up to a  point, universal, each region and country has its  own specific variants which cannot be discerned  from a distance. Thus, there are obviously aspects  of European and American culture which are com-  plementary and which, added to the contributions  of Asia, ‘Africa and Oceania, make up the sum of  world culture. But the differences and local vari-  ations between continents and, within the continents,  between each country and region are so marked  that it would be an error to seek tolay down canons  of universal application; they might be excellent  for a particular sector but would not be equally so  for all.
(76) So far our machinery has been what it should  have been - simple and empirical. But as Unesco  in the future increasingly realizes the scope of its  duties and as its activities grow correspondingly  more complex, that same complexity will confront  it with new needs which, merely by reason of the  - 75 =   IT-4  absolute and unchangeable nature of things, will  find satisfaction only through organized decentral-  ization. Happily, the agenda of this Seventh Session  discloses trends towards that desirable end and the  fact that this is so is evidence of a most praise-  worthy outlook in Unesco's leaders, which the Con-  ference will know how to encourage.
(77) For Ecuador, and perhaps for many other  Latin American countries, the thing of most im-  portance is that technical experts sent out be given  the equipment and material to enable them to do  fruitful work. The technician who has no means of  putting his knowledge to practical use is condemned  to uninspiring theoretical work without constructive  results, and the general notions and principles  which are all that he can teach do not sink in and  are soon forgotten. This causes serious damage  both to Unesco, because its money is wasted and  its plans brought to nothing, and to the country re-  ceiving technical aid, which fails to get positive  material results. It is obvious and regrettable that  work on these lines is detrimental to Unesco's rep-  utation and hence it is: of the utmost urgency to  provide the specialists with the physical means  they need.
(78) I understand that at the moment there is a  current of opinion inside the Organization favouring  the view that the maintenance costs of the experts,  hitherto paid by the receiving country, should in  future be discharged by Unesco to enable the sum  thus released to be expended on the purchase of  equipment and material. While not seeking to ar-  gue against this point of view, Ecuador, on practical  grounds alone, would be better pleased to see each  country still paying for the experts, as heretofore,  with Unesco progressively increasing its alloca-  tions of equipment and materials, to avoid the  acquisition of unnecessary items and to ensure that  the technical advisers themselves bring with them  everything needed to convert theory into definite  and successful practical work. I should even ven-  ture to assert that it would be preferable to send few-  er technicians and see that they were provided with  all the necessary resources. All this is, of course,  without prejudice to proper attention to the specu-  lative branches of human knowledge and without  disparaging the wise assistance which Unesco ex-  perts are affording to thousands.
(79) In Europe, the suggestion I have just made  might seem fanciful, but it must be realized that  Latin America is at the beginning of its industrial  development, with vast and abundant resources  still unexplored, with industries in their infancy  and mines unexploited, in a word, with potential  riches needing only to be collected by man to spread  their benefit over the world, reducing the hunger  and poverty of thousands of persons who today  confront the agonizing personal and social problems  of suffering, insecurity and pauperism. Between  the great heritage of the world's wealth and the  poverty of certain peoples the contrast is striking  and there are grounds for belief that, if bodies such  PLENARY MEETINGS  as Unesco contrive to bring about greater and more  intelligent output, the sequel will be increased and  more appropriate distribution and consumption,  bringing benefits both to local communities and to  the world in general.” Hence the intensive applica-  tion of proper technology may have results as con-  siderable as the immediate raising of the moral  and physical living standards of a large part of  mankind.
(80) Similarly, it would be desirable for the total  sum of the study grants allocated to each country  by Unesco to reach the recipients in full without  being cut or mis-spent for any reason. In certain  circumstances it would be preferable for a country  to be entitled to opt for a number of grants below  the maximum due to it, but with the individual  grants increased to cover the whole costs of travel  and living expenses, so that the fellowships are  not all made unusable by the country's own poverty.  Likewise it would be well for Unesco to secure for  fellowships a minimum duration of three years; it  is notorious that where a fellowship is for one year  only, the expenditure of time required for adjust-  ment tothe new environment, learning the language,  etc., prejudices the attainment of the object in view  and converts what should be a technical course into  a more or less useful tour. In principle it is better  to reduce the number of bursaries and to use the  money to increase their length.
(81) The end effects of technical missions and fel-  lowships properly planned are ultimately the same.  In ordinary social life proximity and contact often  remove prejudice and bring people closer together.  The same is true in international life. Undoubt-  edly, notions which we cannot at present excise  will continue to infect international relations for  many years and perhaps many centuries. For in-  stance, we cannot tell how much longer the basic  premise of public law will be the concept of the  sovereign State. That however, is a secondary  consideration, if we, with the ideal of peace and  brotherhood ever before our eyes, can contrive, by  strengthening our supra-national institutions, to  increase the interdependence and solidarity between  men and peoples. States are no more than means  for ensuring the earthly felicity of man; the focal  point of life is the individual. On the preservation  and increase of his dignity his destiny depends.  Vigilance to defend his natural rights, inalienably  parts of his self and intrinsic factors in his moral  stature, is the price of world peace; and the  world's happiness depends on how well the prin-  ciple of the moral equality of all men is respected,  how far they are given the essential minimum con-  ditions for the achievement of their loftiest aims  yet not "killed by kindness. If we set man to  rights, we shall set the nations to rights. Let us but  bring the power of science and culture to bear on  the ordinary activities of man's daily life and the  aggressive spirit, of which the symptom and re-  sult are crime by groups and individuals, will fade  away. Let us then set forth to conquer, to redeem  - 76   PLENARY MEETINGS  mankind by re-enthroning those positive values,  hidden perhaps but not lost in this sad age in which  the predominance of material factors barely allows  us to préserve any faith and hope in the destiny of  man.
(82) Unesco's programme is vast and difficult in-  deed; but if there be anything worth-while in the  blaze of passions which is the note of the twentieth  century, it is to tackle that programme bravely, to  see if civilization can be saved by re-educating the  leaders and through them the masses. The indi-  cations are that in this twentieth century, our era  is coming to the critical point when another course  must be set in history, and that the materialist  crisis suffocating us with its god-States and State-  gods symbolic of the conditions in which it is given  us to live, believing them true liberty, is crying  out for a renaissance of the human mind, in which  reason will be more rational, liberty less confined,  life more livable and Truth true. The service of  that ideal, dedication tothat work - that, gentlemen,  is what will make Unesco the supreme expression  of the new times to come.
(83) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Ecuador and call upon the delegate of Colombia.
(84) Mr, RAMIREZ MORENO (Colombia) - (Trans-  lation from the Spanish) With humility I ask the  pardon of the Conference for the fact that my first  words must be a succession of superlatives. Yet  it is very natural, for I am to speak to you of our  leader, our Director, Mr. Torres Bodet. With  joy and grief combined I must acknowledge that  America has lost him; but it is the gain of the  whole world. I have had the privilege of following  the career of our Director-General, of being his  colleague at several international conferences, and  I have watched with envy his dazzling career. From  II-4  being a distinguished son of Mexico, he has risen  higher still to become a great American. Mr.  Torres Bodet, Your Excellency is aware that these  words of mine, coloured by feeling, are spoken on  behalf of all our colleagues and I know that I am  accurately conveying their views and feelings on  the work you have accomplished.
(85) Gentlemen, without a religious background,  without metaphysical aspirations, culture is not a  weapon for peace. The proof will be found in the  cases of certain super-criminals who found in ma-  terialism the pathway to totalitarian tyranny. All  true religion, even when not all of us accept it as  such, is deeply imbued with the spirit of justice;  ‘itis not a commination but a surging litany of piety  and love. When that is so, science, art or culture,  not pagan but seeking God above and not below,  serve to enlarge the horizon of tolerance and we  achieve peace, respect for our neighbour in virtue  of his other-worldly destiny; we achieve demo -  cracy, order, free will, that dignity of man which  is only conceivable given the prick and pride of  responsible liberty. The notion that we are no more  than gregarious animals, that life is nothing but a  succession of economic accidents, is held erro-  neous and offensive by those of us who pay fealty to  a superhuman ideal, and in the name of the soul we  reject the notion as vile. We know that there are  ethically neutral political and aesthetic considera-  tions but we know also that ethics without sanctions  are mere whim. That is the view of Colombia on  Unesco.
(86) The PRESIDENT - I thank the delegate of  Colombia. As no more speakers are on the list  for this afternoon, we shall conclude the meeting  with his remarks.  The meeting rose at 5.35 p.m.  -T77 -