CHAPTER II I-1  PLENARY MEETINGS  FIRST PLENARY MEETING  Wednesday,  President:
12 November 1952, at 10.50 a.m.  Mr. HOWLAND SARGEANT (United States of America)  CONTENTS  Opening of the Session by the Head of the Delegation of the  United States of America ier 35  Establishment of the Credentials Committe et 37  Message from the Secretary-General of the United Nations 38  Messages from Specialized Agencies (ILO and WHO) . . . 40  Message from the Organization of American States . . . 42  Right to vote Sp eme 6 00 C 44  OPENING OF THE SESSION BY THE HEAD OF  THE DELEGATION OF THE UNITED STATES OF  AMERICA
(1) The PRESIDENT - My fellow delegates and  friends, on a hot July afternoon over a year ago I  declared the Sixth Session of the General Confer-  ence of Unesco adjourned. At that time I pledged  the delegates to serve truly and faithfully as am-  bassadors of Unesco's ideas. As we meet again  in this Seventh Session of the General Conference  of Unesco, I am happy to see the faces of so many  of my old friends among the returning ambassa-  dors of ideas. I am also welcoming new delegates  who are bringing fresh ideas to our deliberations.
(2) I greet with pleasure the representatives of  the United Nations and of our sister Specialized  Agencies, and those of the non-governmental org-  anizations whose collaboration is of such import-  ance to the success of Unesco.
(3) This will be an important Session. We find  that some of the problems we struggled with last  year have become still more acute and difficult  today. Now this does not frighten us. We look  back on seven years of Unesco's steady, healthy  growth. Six years ago this month, on 20 Novem-  ber, the First Session of the General Conference  of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and  Cultural Organization convened here in Paris; at  that meeting forty-eight States were represented,  but only thirty of them were voting members.  Today there are sixty-five States who are partici-  pating members. They share the responsibility  for maintaining and creating the understanding and  co-operation essential to the realization of peace  among peoples and essential to the achievement of  human progress.
(4) Through sixty-one National Commissions,  through the interest and support of a large number  of non-governmental organizations, and through  its own work, Unesco is becoming known to in-  creasing numbers of people throughout the world.  We all take pride in this development. We must  also recognize that as more people come to know  Unesco we are under heavier obligation not to  disappoint their expectations.
(5) That First Session of the General Conference  of Unesco might have adopted a timid course. It  might have decided to concentrate merely on pro-  moting intellectual co-operation among scholars,  or it might have planned a purely technical rôle  for Unesco. But a bolder course was in fact  charted. The eminent French statesman, Mr.  Léon Blum, who.was President of that First Ses-
11-1  sion of the General Conference, foresaw two  kinds of achievements for Unesco: ''On the one  hand, he said, "precise, methodical and pro-  gressive enterprise in a number of essential tech-  nical spheres; on the other hand, a general com-  bined action affecting the spiritual condition of  peoples and of individuals".
(6) During succeeding years after that First Ses-  sion Unesco successfully mobilized resources to  restore educational, scientific and cultural insti-  tutions sorely damaged by a devastating war, and  it did this without losing sight of its long-term  objectives. During these formative years Unesco  moved forward in technical spheres by encourag-  ing scholarly enterprises and by developing ways  to bring about closer collaboration among scien-  tists, educators, humanists, creative artists and  writers.
(7) As we open our Seventh Session we are enjoy-  ing once more the generous hospitality extended to  us by the Republic of France. We meet again in  this great city of Paris, the heart of a cultural  tradition from which man has derived some of his  noblest inspiration. May we draw from these  surroundings renewed courage and confidence.
(8) I want to take this occasion to express my  personal sorrow at the death, since we met to-  gether last year, of Count Jacini, who contributed  so greatly to the development of our Organization.  During his term as President of the General Con-  ference his abilities as statesman and as scholar  gave us a balanced guidance. We need to remem-  ber his words to us last year when he described  Unesco as ''the great institution for the defence  and dissemination of culture, science and educa-  tion". Count Jacini told us further: "Its subject  is human personality; its method is the free cir-  culation of ideas and of the instruments of culture;  its purpose is peace'. We shall sorely miss his  counsel.
(9) As we gather here today the General Assem-  bly of the United Nations is in session. These two  great conferences have certain elements in com-  mon. In each case the assembly is the democratic  community in which the wills of the member na-  tions are expressed. During the period of our  deliberations here in Paris it is we, the delegates  to the General Conference, who must speak in the  name of Unesco.
(10) Across the ocean, at the General Assembly  of the United Nations, there are tremendously  difficult problems being discussed. Although  sharp ideological differences are creating divi-  sions among men, and although there have been  many threats to the peace during the life of the  United Nations, each threat to the peace has been  dealt with within the framework of the United Na-  tions. In each case save one the United Nations  has helped bring about a cessation of hostilities.  That exception is Korea, where member nations  are proving the worth of the concept of collective  security and of their determination to preserve  PLENARY MEETINGS  peace with honour for nations both small and large.
(11) Many who are here today will recall the hon-  our paid us last year by the personal visit to this  Conference of the Secretary-General of the United  Nations, Mr. Trygve Lie. I still recall his elo-  quent words on that occasion. He told us: "For  the first time in history a world organization acted  to meet armed aggression with collective force.  Because of that action, and because of the coura-  geous and self-sacrificing fight waged by the Uni-  ted Nations forces in Korea, the development of  collective security against war anywhere in the  world has been greatly advanced. The men who  are fighting and dying under their national flags  and the flag of the United Nations serve the noblest  cause of all. They are fighting to prevent a third  world war".
(12) From these developments we can take en-  couragement. I feel that the successes of the  United Nations, and of Unesco, show that a third  world war can be avoided. I believe this because  I am sure that the peace which men of goodwill  have envisioned can become a reality. That the  peace we want and plead for does not exist today  should not discourage us. Rather it should streng-  then our resolution to build this peace. Unesco  complements the work of the United Nations in its  ability to increase the educational, cultural and  scientific resources of the world, and in its abili-  ty to promote greater understanding by the peoples  of the world of the true requirements for lasting  peace. For, unless peoples can be made to under-  stand the present problems of the world sufficient-  ly well to make individual and national choices,  they will not see how they can help to fashion the  peace. They must understand the substance of the  problems which must be solved before peace can  be constructed. Unesco's rôle is to join in the  creation of this understanding, to make peoples  aware of the changes that are taking place in the  world today so that they can act harmoniously both  as individuals and as groups.
(13) Now I believe that this is the task which  Secretary-General Lie was describing to us last  year when he went on to say: ''Unesco has a key  position in the effort which the United Nations  Organizations must now make to realize in an un-  settled world the great purposes for which they  were established. Through the wide scope and  diversity of its various activities it has an im-  mense range of contacts throughout the world.  Through the nature of its work it has the possibi-  lity of influencing the minds of men and the ideas  which motivate men's actions. It has a vital rôle  to play in support of the total United Nations effort  for peace.
(14) This is a great and noble task. In consider-  ing this task, it is relevant to ask this question:  "How can nations collaborate through education,  science and culture to achieve universal respect  for justice and for the rule of law unless their  peoples can obtain a clear view of the actions of
23   PLENARY MEETINGS  men and of nations which tend to achieve justice  and to promote regard for the rule of law, and  unless they are equally able to discern what ac-  tions taken by men or by nations ignore justice  and reject the rule of law?"
(15) Theintellectual and moral climate conducive  to the realization of peace can hardly be achieved  unless men come to understand the nature of the  world as it is. Is it not, then, a duty of Unesco  to contribute to this understanding by helping men  to obtain a clearer view of each other's ways of  life, and of those forces which tend to unify as  well as those which tend to divide men? We  should not be discouraged by the enormity of this  task. Instead, we should be all the more deter-  mined not to let this General Conference become  submerged in consideration of petty details and  thereby lose sight of the major challenge posed  for us by the nature of the world in which we live  today. We should face these problems squarely;  we should face these problems courageously in  the hope that by taking counsel together we may  find solutions and satisfying, realistic answers,  based firmly upon the principles of Unesco's  Charter.
(16) In this present world Unesco may find that  to live up to the principles of its Charter may  seem frustrating. But each time that our General  Conference, our Executive Board, our Director-  General or a single Member State speaks out in  defence of our principles when those principles  are placed in jeopardy or violated - each time  this happens our cause is strengthened and our  course is made clearer.
(17) Every delegate here today represents a  sovereign nation. He knows that Unesco was  founded on the concept of the independence and  integrity of his and every other nation. As our  Director-General, whose distinguished leadership  has served as such an inspiration to us, has so  well said: "It has never been the purpose of  Unesco to turn citizens from their national loyal-  ties. We are trying to do something quite dif-  ferent: to train citizens - since we are concerned  with education - who will be faithful in their duty  to their country and who, for that very reason,  will also be loyal to the international obligations  which their country has assumed".
(18) Every delegate here also knows that Unesco  hopes to preserve the "fruitful diversity of cul-  tures'' of its Member States. We realize the rich  treasures of creative achievement springing from  these diverse cultures. Now we of the New World  have long been aware of our indebtedness to other  cultures, to the Near East and Far East, and to  Europe. We know also in the New World that we  are busy opening spiritual and cultural frontiers  of our own and I think I may say that in a cultural  sense we are continuing Columbus! spirit of dis-  covery. Delegates from other nations value their  cultures as fully as we Americans cherish ours.  Together in Unesco we seek the free exchange of
1L=1  knowledge and the free flow of ideas that bring  about a more perfect understanding of each other's  cultures. We want none of their values to be lost.  We want each to contribute to the utmost in our  common human endeavour. The strength of the  nations which can honestly and genuinely uphold  and subscribe to Unesco lies in their recognition  of the wide diversity among cultures and their  basic agreement on fundamental principles and  obligations.
(19) Our mission at this General Conference  must be to continue a relentless search to find  better ways to educate people to live as citizens  of sovereign states in a community of all mankind,  preserving the values of diverse cultures and the  rights and responsibilities of national citizenships.  This is the high task to which we are dedicated in  the noblest of causes to which mankind aspires -  the devotion of the creative spirit of mankind to  the achievement of peace and security. Let us set  about this task with that spirit of true brotherhood  which Unesco seeks to achieve.  ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE
(20) The PRESIDENT -- Ladies and gentlemen,  the Seventh Ordinary Session of the General Con-  ference of Unesco is now open. The first item of  business which we must transact at this session is  the establishment of a Credentials Committee. It  is the responsibility of the Acting President of the  Conference, under Rule 27 of the Rules of Pro-  cedure, to establish at once a Credentials Com-  mittee. Rule 27 of the Rules of Procedure lays  down the following: "The Credentials Committee  shall consist of nine members who shall be elected  by the General Conference, on the proposal of the  Acting President". In accordance with this Rule  of Procedure, I am going to suggest to the dele -  gates assembled the names of nine Member States.  If you approve these nine Member States, we shall  then ask the Credentials Committee to retire from  this room and, meeting in a room upstairs, exa-  mine as quickly as possible the credentials which  have been submitted by the delegates to this Gene-  ral Conference and then, as quickly as they may,  to report to the General Conference itself.
(21) Accordingly, I have the honour to propose  that the Credentials Committee consist of the dele-  gates of the following Member States: Australia,  Belgium, Brazil, France, India, United Kingdom,  United States of America, Venezuela and Yugo-  slavia. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to  enquire whether the General Conference accepts  this proposal. If there are no objections, we shall  consider that these nine Member States have been  duly approved to act for us in this General Confe-  rence and to constitute the Credentials Committee.
(22) I am asked to request delegates tobring their  credentials to the Credentials Committee, in the  cases where those instruments have not yet been
37 —   II-1  formally submitted. I understand that there may  be one or two cases in which the credentials have  not yet been received by the Secretariat.
(23) I shall ask the Head of the delegation of each  of those nine Member States to designate his ap-  pointee to the Credentials Committee, which will  meetin a room immediately above this level as ra-  pidly as possible. While the Credentials Commit-  tee is meeting the rest of us will continue in ses-  sion in this room.  ‘MESSAGE FROM THE SECRETARY-GENERAL OF THE  UNITED NATIONS
(24) The PRESIDENT - We are privileged to have  with us this morning a representative of Mr.  Trygve Lie, Secretary-General of the United Na-  tions, and several representatives of others of our  sister Specialized Agencies. I am now going to call  upon Mr. Katzin, a personal representative of the  Secretary-General, to come forward and to address  some brief remarks to us.
(25) Colonel A.G. KATZIN (Personal Representa-  tive of Mr. Trygve Lie, Secretary-Generalof the  United Nations) - I am pleased to present this mes-  sage from the Secretary-General of the United Na-  tions to the Seventh Session of your General Con-  ference. When the Secretary-General addressed  the Sixth Session of this Conference in June last year  he said thatin times of great political difficulty and  uncertainty it was doubly important that the direc-  tion and stability of long-term international pro-  grammes should be maintained. Since that time,  unfortunately, the political climate of the world has  not changed perceptibly for the better, and there is  little sign that it is likely to change for the better in  the near future. It is no less important now than  it was then that we should press on with the great  programmes of which the United Nations and the  Specialized Agencies are the embodiment. Even in  our gloomiest hours we must remember that each  year of peace gained means another year during  which these programmes can take effect and streng-  then the foundations of well-being and prosperity in  the world, upon which alone a solid and lasting  peace can be built. 3
(26) I should like to touch on a few of the United  Nations programmes in which the collaboration of  Unesco plays an important rôle. In both the two  great emergency programmes in which the United  Nations is at present engaged, the reconstruction of  Korea and the relief and works programme in the  Middle East, Unesco plays an important and vigo-  ‘rous part. In Korea Unesco has provided a distin-  guished team of international experts to survey the  educational needs of the country. This team, com-  posed of eminent experts from Mexico, the Philip-  pines, the United States of America and the United  Kingdom, is spending six months in Korea investi-  gating all phases of education from the primary le-  vel to vocational training. The mission's official  PLENARY MEETINGS  findings and proposals will be submitted to the Ko-  rean Reconstruction Agency for incorporation, in  so far as the Agency's resources permit, in its  overall programme to help the Koreans to restore  their shattered country. Mr. Kingsley, the Agent-  General for Korean reconstruction, has said that  "the Korean people, who have had no real educa-  tional opportunities since the beginning of Japa-  nese rule in 1910, must be provided with adequate  education and training in primary, grammar and  secondary schools, colleges and technical schools  and in appropriate fields of vocational training. No-  thing that we or anyone else can do towards the re-  construction of the country is more important than  this." The United Nations is confident that Unesco's  team will successfully respond to this challenge.
(27) Inthe Middle East, Unesco andthe United Na-  tions Relief and Works Agency are co-operating  fully in refugee education. Unesco is providing the  technical leadership and some financial assistance,  with UNRWA responsible principally for the budget  and the general administrative setting. Emphasis  has so far been on elementary education at a some-  what inadequate level; but with new funds and anew  programme for improving refugee living conditions;  UNRWA is planning to strengthen the whole pro-  gramme of elementary and secondary education. Of  special importance is a new joint educational effort  in the field of vocational training, through which it  is hoped to help 10, 000 trainees to acquire skills  which will make them self-supporting. Unesco and  UNRWA have also signed a technical assistance  agreement which will bring, into the area and into  the Agency's programme, experts in visual, funda-  mental and technical education.
(28) I do not intend to attempt to cover today all  points of contact between Unesco andthe United Na-  tions. I think it is true to say that the work of the  two organizations is being concerted at every level  where their activities are connected, and that both  governments and secretariats are making a conti-  nuous effort to make the work of Unesco and of all  the other Specialized Agencies an integrated part of  the great aims of the United Nations as a whole.
(29) Before I touch upon one or two other important  substantive developments, the Secretary-General  would like me to mention two ways in which he thinks  this process of integration and purposeful planning  is being ‘achieved. The first development of this  kind is taking place within the United Nations. This  is the working out, at the request of the General  Assembly and the Economic and Social Council, of  a programme of concerted action in the social field.  We are confident that this concerted programme will  be of considerable value to governments and to in-  ternational organizations in concentrating the limi-  ted resources available in the international field  upon the most useful and practical ends, and we  hope that this programme, when approved, will  give a real impetus and strength to the activities  in the social field of the whole family of United Na-  tions Organizations.
(30) Secondly, - Unesco is now in the process of  transferring from a system of annual sessions of  this Conference to a system of biennial sessions.  Such a change will, we all hope, allow for better  and more thorough planning, for a greater stabi-  lity in the establishment of programmes, and for  more time and resources to be devoted to the actual  work to be done and less tothe procedures and pa-  per work which great conferences always entail. In  the United Nations we, for our part, welcome this  change and hope that it will make possible closer  co-operation and more thorough consultation bet-  ween our two organizations at every stage of our  common task.
(31) A fieldin whichthe United Nations relies upon  the collaboration of Unesco more, perhaps, than in  any other is in the wide dissemination of knowledge  about the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.  The joint efforts of the United Nations and Unesco  to establish Human Rights Day as a world festival  have met with increasing success, as have Unesco's  special efforts to further the teaching of the princi-  ples of the Declaration in schools. Unesco has also  made an important contribution to the preparation  of the Draft Covenant on Economic, Social and Cul-  tural Rights in co=operation withthe Human Rights  Commission. Its collaboration with the Commis-  sion on the Status of Women, especially in the pro-  motion of equal educational opportunities for women  and the political education of women, has also been  of great value. In other fields concerned with hu-  man rights as well, in promoting freedom of infor-  mation and in the campaign against discrimination,  Unesco's activities have been of great value to the  whole complex of United Nations activities for the  promotion of human rights, and the Secretary-  General earnestly hopes that this close co-opera-  tion will continue and increase. ;
(32) Another important field in which the collabo -  ration between Unesco and the United Nations has  made progress recently is that of trust and non-  self-governingterritories. The Trusteeship Coun-  cil has profited bythe technical assistance given to  itby Unesco in the consideration of reports on trust  territories, andthe Committee on Information from  Non-Self-Governing Territories has had before it a  number of valuable reports on action taken to eli-  minate illiteracy and on the problem of the use of in-  digenous languages in education - both subjects of  great importance to the consideration of educational  conditions in the non-self-governing territories.  Proposals are now before the General Assembly that  in 1953 a further special examination should be made  for particular problems of education in the non-self-  governing territories. As in the past, so in the fu-  _ ture the assistance of Unesco will be of great im-  portance.
(33) Similarly, in the general consideration of so-  cial advancement Unesco!s assistance inthe field of  social sciences has been appreciated, and a report  on social conditions which was ‘approved by the  “Fourth Committee of the General Assembly at its  MEETINGS II-1  current session will, when approved by the Gene-  ral Assembly itself, be communicated to Unesco;  itreflects many of the views put forward by Unesco.  This report in particular noted with interest  Unesco's publications presenting the scientific facts  about the nature of race and race differences, and  considered that these publications should prove use-  ful in the campaign against racial prejudice and  discrimination.
(34) Finally, I should like to say a word about a  campaign which will, I understand, be intensified  in the forthcoming year by Unesco, namely the  campaign for the development of free compulsory  primary education. The preoccupation of the eco-  nomic and social organs of the United Nations with  economic and social development as their primary  task is by now, I think, universally accepted; and  the nature of the Expanded Programme of Techni-  cal Assistance is by now so well known that it is  not necessary to make any detailed reference to it  here. At the last session of this Conference per-  haps the most striking new item on the programme  was the special project on fundamental education,  which, going as it does to the very roots of the  problems of the under-developed areas of the  world, has justifiably received increasing support  arid has aroused considerable hopes for the future.  I understand that this year a parallel campaign for  free compulsory primary education is to be spon-  sored by Unesco. In its importance towards achie-  ving the aims of the Charter of the United Nations,  in its key position in programmes of economic and  social development, and in its relation to almost  all programmes in the economic and social field,  such a campaign must of necessity be of the grea-  test interest to the United Nations. Article 26 of  the Universal Declaration of Human Rights reads:  "Everyone has the right to education. Education  shall be free, at least in the elementary and fun-  damental stages. Elementary education shall be  compulsory." At its Fourteenth Session the Eco-  nomic and Social Council determined that "free and  compulsory elementary education!’ should be one of  the priority programmes upon which international  action in the economic and social field should be  concentrated. Thus the United Nations is vitally  interested in this campaign and must remain inte-  rested in it, both for its potential economic and  social effects and for the effect which it must in the  long run inevitably have upon the political situation  in the world.
(35) Whilst expressing support for the principle,  however, we must recognize the difficulties and  obstacles facing the less developed countries in  their efforts to extend free compulsory education.  It is not sufficient merely to adopt laws for the ex-  tension of such education. Indeed, the great ma-  jority of less developed countries have such laws  already, although few have the means or the capa-  city to enforce them. It may be relevant to quote  here from the Preliminary Report on the World  Social Situation prepared for the Social Commis-  - 39 -   IT-1  sion this year, which says: "Lacking school faci-  lities and rural transport systems, as well as ade-  quate administrative and fiscal systems, confron-  ted often with a multiplicity of local tongues and al-  most always with a vast and expanding child popu-  lation, the less developed countries, with a few  exceptions, have found universal schooling beyond  their present financial means." It is also impor-  tant to bear in mind the repercussions which the  major increases in government expenditure invol-  ved in the extension of compulsory education would  have upon other social programmes, Here the  Secretary-General desires that I drawthe attention  of the Conference to the detailed and practical re-  commendations of the Fourteenth Annual Confer-  ence on Public Education, where the major diffi-  culties are stated and where the necessity for co-  ordinating compulsory education plans with other  economic and social programmes is stressed.
(36) I think also that it should always be borne in  mind that literacy alone is not enough, and that  other basic obstacles to improving standards of li-  ving must be tackled simultaneously.
(37) The problemis a pressing one, encompassing  as it does nothing less than the possibilities for  spiritual and intellectual growth of a large propor-  tion of the young people of the world. In the view  of the Secretary-General such a campaign as this  in all its aspects must be the subject of consulta-  tions and detailed discussion; only by the exploring  of every possibility of financing and of development  within the whole framework of economic and social  development can it achieve the success that it de-  serves, as an essential part both of the whole fa-  mily and child welfare programme of the United  Nations and of its programme of economic develop-  ment.
(38) I will not take up your time further by men-  tioning the many other programmes in which the  United Nations and Unesco are collaborating. Nor  do I need to emphasize here the importance which  the Secretary-General attaches to the rôle played  by the activities of Unesco as a whole in achieving  the aims of the United Nations Charter. The United  Nations representatives at this Conference will be  at your disposal to provide information whenneces-  sary on any point that may arise in connexion with  these programmes on which they could be helpful.  The Secretary-General wishes in particular that I  conveyto you his best wishes for:the success of the  Conference.
(39) The PRESIDENT -I wish to express on behalf  of all of us who are gathered here our appreciation  for this message of encouragement and of greeting  from the Secretary-General of the United Nations.  As I said in my opening remarks, we were honour-  ed by the personal visit of the Secretary-General  of the United Nations at the last session of the  General Conference. We retain a strong impres-  sion of his eloquent message to us, and we are  indebted again today for having so able a personal  PLENARY MEETINGS  representative to bring further words of encou-  ragement to us from our parent Organization.  MESSAGES FROM SPECIALIZED AGENCIES
(40) The PRESIDENT - We are also fortunate in  having several representatives of our sister Spe-  cialized Agencies, and I am now going to call upon  Mrs. Jouhaux of the International Labour Organ-  ization.
(41) Mrs. JOUHAUX (International Labour Org-  anization) - (Translation from the French) Mr.  President, Mr. Director - Gene al, ladies aand  gentlemen, Mr. David Morse, Director-General  of the International Labour Organization, has  asked me to convey to you his great regret at  being unable to attend this opening meeting him-  self. I feel that it is a tremendous privilege for  me to have been selected to carry on what has al-  ready become a tradition in the relations between  our two Organizations. At your previous Confe-  rences, representatives of the International La-  bour Organization have expressed the hope that  there be permanent collaboration between Unesco  and the International Labour Organization - one of  its sister institutions in the great family of the  United Nations - and I am glad to be able, today,  to express our pleasure at the fact that our res-  pective Organizations do now carry on their daily  work in close harmony. Any other state of things  seems to us to be inconceivable. The International  Labour Organization, having since 1919 devoted  all its efforts to the establishment of international  standards of social legislation, in order to do  away with economic and social conditions which  only too often give rise to political tensions danger-  ous to peace, has long been aware of the value and  importance of general education to any undertaking  which aims at stimulating progress. It therefore  heartily approved the decision reached by your  General Conference last year in respect of your  fundamental education programme; for the im-  provement of education at all levels, and particu-  larly of primary education, is essential to the pro-  gress of some andtothe social adaptation of others.  We have frequently had occasion to see the truth  of this statement when carrying out technical as-  sistance projects - many of which, incidentally,  depend for their success on co-operation between  our two Organizations. These two Organizations  are naturally associated in a common mission,  since they owe their origin to a common ideal - the  ideal which is set forth in the Charter of the United  Nations - and are inspired by the same determina-  tion to lead the world towards a future in which all  human beings, irrespective of race or creed, will  be able to continue in freedom and dignity along  the path of material and spiritual progress. It is  therefore not surprising that the International La-  bour Organization takes the greatest, most under-  =40 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  standing and most cordial interest in Unesco's  activities.
(42) Nor is it surprising that I should have been  instructed to wish you the fullest possible success  in your work, and to express the hope that your  decisions will result in better understanding among  the nations and that co-operation between our two  Organizations, combined with the efforts of the  United Nations and the other Specialized Agencies,  will enable Human Rights to become functioning,  living realities.
(43) The PRESIDENT - I should like to say on  behalf of all of us here that we share the hope ex-  pressed by Mrs. Jouhaux on behalf of Mr. David  Morse, the Director-General of the International  Labour Organization, that Unesco's collaboration  with ILO will indeed increase and be fruitful. As  you know, we have in the past worked in the great-  est harmony with the International Labour Organ-  ization, which, as you may not recall, is in fact  the oldest of these Specialized Agencies, having  been founded in 1919. They have learned many  techniques which they have been happy to share  with Unesco, and I look forward to increased work  being carried out between these two sister Agen-  cies inthe greatest possible spirit of co-operation.  We thank ILO for their willingness to send this  message of encouragement, and we particularly  appreciate the presence of Mrs. Jouhaux among us.
(44) We have also a representative of a younger  Specialized Agency of the United Nations - the  World Health Organization. Again, Unesco has  worked in a number of most important projects in  the closest harmony with the World Health Organ-  ization itself. I should like to say to the Deputy  Director of the World Health Organization, Dr.  Dorolle, who is here with us today, that we, the  delegates assembled in this General Conference,  wish WHO well; we are most indebted to you for  coming to give a personal word of greeting.
(45) Dr. DOROLLE (Deputy Director-General of  the World Health Organization) - (Translation from  the French) Mr. President, in the spring of this  year, at the opening of the Fifth World Health  Assembly, Mr. Torres Bodet, who did the World  Health Organization the honour of participating in  that ceremony, spoke in elevated terms on the  subject of our common activities and pointed out  the lesson inherent in our constant collaboration.  I have myself on two occasions spoken here of  definite examples of the co-operation which exists  between the two sister Organizations. To refer  again to this subject would be to repeat what has  already been said. Nevertheless, whether it be  WHO's participation ‘in the ‘Unesco fundamental  education programmes, or our continual common  participation in the work of the United Nations  Technical Assistance Programme, to mention  these examples only, the rule we have set our-  selves, and which we cannot too often repeat, is  II-1  one of mutual respect for our responsibilities,  which implies preliminary consultation together,  before any action is taken, with regard to all pro-  jects which are of interest to both our Organiza-  tions.
(46) No more need be said on that point. In thank-  ing you in the name of the Director-General of the  World Health Organization for the honour you have  done us in allowing us to address your Conference,  I should like to develop one of the ideas which is  basic to the activities of our two Organizations. I  mean the idea of exchange.
(47) From its first days, Unesco has adopted and  developed this concept of exchange in the fields of  science, culture and education. You are all,  therefore, convinced of its importance, but I be-  lieve that too much emphasis can never be laid  upon it, since it is a concept vital to international  activities at all levels and in all fields. I men-  tioned just now the United Nations Expanded Pro-  gramme of Technical Assistance, in which WHO  and Unesco are participating side by side. Even  in this programme of apparently practical activi-  ties it is, in the last analysis, the idea of ex-  change which predominates. The term used - I  mean the word "assistance - would appear to  signify one-way activities. Nevertheless, in spite  of the usual terminology, there do not exist, in  reality, ""donor'' countries and ''receiver" countries.  An old Spanish saying which I came upon by chance  seems to me to present my meaning admirably:  "No hay rico que no pueda recibir algo, no hay  pobre que no pueda dar algo" (No one is so rich  that he can receive nothing; no one is so poor that  he has nothing to give). Economically developed  countries, in assisting less favoured countries,  give, it is true, but they also receive in return.  It is not necessary to point out to an assembly like  yours that one learns by teaching. On his return  froma mission whose purpose was the organization  of medical training in one of the very old countries  of Western Asia, the Dean of a great European  medical school said to me, in reply to our thanks  for the work he had accomplished: "I would like to  believe that I have been of use, since you assure  me that it is so, but I must tell you that for my own  part I have learnt a great deal". In fact, the most  highly qualified expert, when he finds himself in  new conditions and confronted by difficulties which  do not exist in his own country, is obligedto revise  his ideas and to find new solutions to problems  whose existence he did not even suspect. More-  over, does it not happen that, when studying cer-  tain problems in the so-called under-developed  countries, we discover that these countries have  for a long time been applying to these very prob-  lems original solutions ignored by the outside  world because of the lack of contacts and spread  of knowledge.
(48) The programmes which we offer derive an  essential benefit from this exchange. In the light  of what we have thus learnt we are able to adapt  = 41 -
1-1  them more closely to the real needs of each count-  try, that is to say, to take more fully into account  the differences, not only on the purely technical  level but also, and above all, on the cultural and  social levels, in short, the human level: Exchange  presupposes a difference. These cultural and  social differences, these differences in the atti-  tudes of human beings - which certainly make our  task difficult but which are also the main source  of its interest and give it its "raison d'être"! -  must be respected. We in the World Health Org-  anization know, as well as you in Unesco, that one  of the great stumbling-blocks to international co-  operation is the tendency to impose programmes  established "a priori" - prefabricated program-  mes, if I may use the word, and, therefore, pro-  grammes which are adapted neither to the real  needs nor to the possibilities of absorption of the  countries with which we are working. The spirit of  systematization is our great enemy, against which  a philosopher who is doubly dear to me puts us on  our guard when he says: "Taking its conceptions  as definitive and complete, it lives in formulae  which it is unable to adapt either to the evolution  of the real or to its complexity’. That is to say,  we cannot have universal programmes or all-  purpose projects. The golden rule of the World  Health Organization seems to me to be the one  often repeated by our Director-General, Dr. Brock  Chisholm. He has put it in a form which is deli-  berately modest and simple (has not Paul Valéry  said: "Whatever is not simple is not usable"?).  Our duty, according to Dr. Chisholm, is "to help  countries to take the next appropriate step in the  development of their health services". :
(49) The danger of over-ambitious programmes  disproportionate to the possibilities of absorption,  the dangers of the spirit of systematization - these  are concepts we have acquired by experience and  matured through critical study of our activities.  Curiously enough, a few weeks ago a man who was  until now a stranger to our activities spontaneously  confirmed the validity of these concepts. Speaking  at a meeting held at WHO Headquarters, an Afric-  an who, although he holds high academic and sci-  entific qualifications, does not forget that he is  the son of a tribal chieftan, said, in substance:  "What we Africans expect from international aid  is not, no matter how magnificent they may seem,  potted plants grown in other climates, in European  or American earth. What we expect from you is  seeds, carefully chosen by you, which you will  bring us and which we shall plant in our African  soil. They will develop in our surroundings, in  our soil, and will give beautiful African blos-  soms'. Sir, on that day I believe we received  a precious lesson which, in a form which strikes  the imagination, encourages us in our path. And  since this lesson was given by an African, it  leads me, in conclusion, back to my former  theme: "No one is so poor that he has nothing  to give".  PLENARY MEETINGS
(50) The PRESIDENT - I should like to thank Dr.  Dorolle on behalf of all the delegates assembled  for his inspiring message of greeting from Dr.  Chisholm, the Director-General of the World  Health Organization. Perhaps, as you listened to  Dr. Dorolle's remarks today, it occurred to you  that not only are the Headquarters of our two Spe-  cialized Agencies not far apart (being located in  Geneva and Paris), but also that projects which  are the concern of the World Health Organization  and those which are of vital concern to Unesco are  closely related. As Dr. Dorolle told us last year,  when you chart the zones of sickness and of ignor-  ance in this world of ours you find that these zones  coincide. So I am happy on behalf of all of us to  thank Dr. Dorolle for these words of greeting and  the spirit of co-operation they express.  MESSAGE FROM THE ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN  STATES. p
(51) The PRESIDENT - Inow have the honour of  calling upon the representative of the Organization  of American States, Mr. Amoroso Lima.
(52) Mr. Amoroso LIMA (Organization of Amer-  ican States) - (Translation from the French) Mr.  President, Mr. Director-General, ladies and  gentlemen, in the absence of our Secretary-  General, Mr. Alberto Lleras Camargo, who is  unable to attend this Conference, Mr. Nannetti,  your erstwhile colleague, and I - both of us fami-  liar, from of old, with Unesco meetings - have  come to convey a message from the Organization  of American States to this Seventh Session of  Unesco's General Conference. Paris is two thou-  sand years old, Unesco is seven years old; one  of the oldest cities in the world - the centre of  civilization - and one of the world's youngest org-  anizations are together linking progress with tra-  dition. We are all engaged in this common task.  And the young American countries born of that  ancient European and universal civilization whose  intellectual centre is and always will be Paris -  the young nations who have European blood intheir  veins, Christian civilization in their hearts, and  in their minds the universal culture of the ancient  world but a culture to which the new world, too,  claims to contribute - these young American coun-  tries are all behind you, and present in our Org-  anization, for a common task.
(53) There is no need for me to remind you,  gentlemen, that we are confronted by two key  problems of the modern world: the problem of  peace and the problem of freedom. All of us -  individuals and States, civilizations and conti-  nents - are faced with two temptations which might  be described as diabolical; the temptation of vio-  lence and the temptation of power. We are all li-  ving in this terrible modern world which has ful-  filled the highest hopes, in the realms of knowledge  -49 -   PLENARY MEETINGS  and intelligence, hopes cherished by the older civi-  lizations for thousands of years - a world Which,  however, has shown by its acts that it has not yet  succeeded in harnessing for the good of mankind  the results of all this vast amount of effort in the  cause of progress. Gentlemen, in face of these  two terrible temptations, all continents, all nations,  all individuals whose hearts and minds cherish the  hope of placing the intellect at the service of peace  and freedom must unite. It must be Unesco's  task - its only task - to bring this unity about. The  The determination to combat violence and the abuse  of power - that is what brings us together here to-  day.
(54) What is the common denominator of the evils  against which we must strive? Is it not ignorance?  Is itnot ignorance that lies at the root of violence ?  Is it not ignorance that underlies the abuse of power,  that totalitarianism which threatens the modern  - world? Gentlemen, you know as well as I do that  it is, indeed, ignorance - the ignorance of the illi-  terate masses in Asia, in Africa, in America and  even in Europe; but also a form of ignorance which  is worse than the lack of knowledge - the ignorance  of knowledge misapplied. Knowledge in itself is  neither good nor evil; knowledge is good when put  at the service of good - for as we can remember,  and as history reminds us, knowledge can be put at  the service of evil. It is because knowledge must  be put at the service of good, because it is a means  of achieving something great, that we have metto-  gether here. It is for that reason that the young  American countries - fortified by Western civiliza-  tion, by that Atlantic civilization which issued forth  from Mediterranean civilization - feel themselves  at the same time intimately linked to world civiliza-  tion and wonderfully placed at this cross-roads  where all races, . religions, nations and continents  meet. Unesco can achieve its aim, if we unite our  efforts and if the regional organizations take their  part in this great, world-wide enterprise.
(55) Itisa principle of method that we shouldnever  do ourselves what others can dobetter. A few years  ago, Pope Pius XI said: "Nothing should be done by  a large group that can be done by a smaller group".  That is the sound method of division of labour,  whereby everyone makes his own contribution to a  common cause. For, gentlemen, we must not con-  fuse unity with uniformity. Previous speakers, and  in particular the representative of the United Na-  tions, have reminded us of the imperative need for  co-ordinating our efforts. Two or three days ago,  an attempt was being made to determine Unesco's  measure of responsibility in projects prepared and  carried out in collaboration with other organiza-  tions. Why? Because it is Unesco's method not to  do itself what other, more specialized bodies can  do better.
(56) This is well appreciated by the Organization  of American States, in which all the American  II-1  States are represented. Our Organization is over  a hundred years old; it was born of the genius of  Bolivar, the great man whose mind and heart were  formed by Europe, by that world-wide culture  whose two thousandth anniversary we celebrated  last year. Bolivar realized what power could be  exercised by a group of States thatrepresented the  heritage of the civilization transmitted by the an-  cient continent, the ancient world, to the new.  And Bolivar's idea, which began to take shape in
1826 at the Panama Congress, is now no longer an  ideal but has been translated into fact, since in
1890 the Pan-American Union was organized and  in 1948 was given its legal constitution.
(57) I am happy to recall here the supremely im-  portant part played in 1948 at the Bogota Conference  by Mr. Torres Bodet. I heard the ambassador of  one of our countries say: "The hand of Torres  “ Bodet is to be seen in every Article of the Bogota  Charter". That is literally true. The fundamen-  tal contribution of the Director-General, Mr.  Torres Bodet, to the Bogota Charter was that he  stressed the importance of the cultural and social  basis, as distinct from the purely political factor.  From that moment onwards, the Organization of  American States has been following the path traced  out by Unesco; two years later an Agreement was  concluded between the two, and now, for the first  time, the Organization of American States is offi-  cially represented in your assembly, for the first  time, all these young American States have come  here to ensure that, with their help, this Agreement  shall be carried into effect for the common good.  Mr. Nannetti will explain, better than I could do,  what we have already done, especially in the field  ofeducation. It isa heart-rending problem, gentle-  men, for we are confronted with seventy million  illiterates in America - and to be precise, alas, in  Latin America. The same terrible problem exists  in Asia and in Africa.
(58) I wish to convey to you here a greeting from  the young States of America, and to tell you what  great hopes they are placing in us all, how ardently  they desire that our work shall go foward to suc-  cess. We must labour together, hand in hand, if  we really wish to serve Unesco's ideal - the placing  ‘of the intellect at the service of peace and freedom.
(59) The PRESIDENT - As a member of one of  those young countries of America to which Mr.  Lima referred, I was moved, as I know you were,  by his eloquent remarks and by his message of  greeting from Mr. Alberto Lleras Camargo, the  Secretary-General of the Organization of Ameri-  can States. We are indebted to Mr. Lima for his  personal participation. I was delighted to hear his  remarks about an old colleague of ours, Mr.  Nannetti, who will be here with us during this ses-  sion of the General Conference, and his tribute to  the plans and vision of our Director-General.
(60) The PRESIDENT - I have one item of business  to which I must now draw your attention. Accor-  ding to Article IV, C, sub-section 8b of the Con-  stitution, the right to vote is made conditional up-  on the payment by Member States of their financial  contributions. Certain States whose contributions  were in arrears were advised of the fact by the  Director-General in letters dated 31 January, 24  April and 7 August, and other letters despatched  between 1 and 20 October of this year. These  States are: Argentina, Bolivia, China, Czecho-  slovakia, Guatemala, Hungary and Poland. These  States will therefore be unable to vote during this  session of the General Conference, since the amount  of their arrears exceeds the amount of contribu-  tions due from them for the current year and the  immediately preceding financial year.
(61) Paragraph8c of Article IV declares, however,  that the General Conference may permit such Mem-  ber States to vote if it is satisfied that the failure  to pay is due to conditions beyond their control. It  therefore rests with the delegations of the countries  concerned to request the General Conference, if  they think fit, to adopt this latter course. Requests  should be addressed to the President of the Gene-  ral Conference, who will transmit them to the  General Committee. The General Committee will  decide which body of the Conference should examine  these requests. I should inform the Conference that  such a request has already been addressed to me  MEETINGS  by the Head of the Chinese delegation, by letter  dated 9 November 1952.
(62) I am informed that the Credentials Commit-  tee will not be able to make its report in time to  permit hearing this report this morning. I am go-  ing to suggest to the General Conference, there-  fore, that we follow this schedule: we shall adjourn  this meeting, if it meets your pleasure, upon the  conclusion of my remarks. We shall reconvene in  this room at 3.30 this afternoon. Our first item of  business will be to hear the report of the Creden-  tials Committee. We shall then proceed to the adop-  tion of the revised Agenda of the Conference.
(63) Immediately afterwards there will be a meet-  ing of the Nominations Committee. You will recall  that the Nominations Committee consists of the  Heads of all delegations entitled to vote. For that  reason, the Nominations Committee will be con-  vened in this room. After that we can resume our  plenary meeting, when our first item will be to  hear the report of the Nominations Committee; our  order of business upon hearing that report will be  to elect thenew President of the General Conference  and the ten Vice-Presidents. I am sorry that we  cannot proceed further with our agenda this morn-  ing, but I am sure you will agree that if we can set  these items of business in good order we should be  able to make up for our lost time this afternoon. If  this is agreeable, we now declare this meeting ad-  journed until 3. 30 this afternoon.  The meeting rose at 12. 10 p. m.  - 44 -