(6) The PRESIDENT - I am sorry that Mr. Ribnikar persists in his resignation. We accept it with the utmost regret and we express our appreciation of his great services to the Executive Board and to the Conference during the time he officiated here. The Nominations Committee will meet at once to elect two members in place of Mr. Ribnikar and Dr. Luther Evans.
(7) Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) (Chairman of the Executive Board) - I should like, if I may, to say a few words on behalf of those members of the Executive Board who knew Dr. Ribnikar. He was a highly valued member of the Board and we all personally regret his decision. He contributed a great deal to our meetings. He did not talk much, but his advice was always sound and to the point. We all felt we had a friend on the Board, and it is with the deepest regret that we now learn that his resignation is irrevocable. I did my best to persuade him not to go, but I failed. I wish to pay a tribute to him here and to express the great regret of all the members of the Board. The meeting rose at 11.5 a. m. FOURTH PLENARY MEETING Thursday, 2 JULY 1953, at 3.45 p.m. President: Dr. SARVEPALLI RADHAKRISHNAN (India) C O N T E N T S Report of the Chairman of the Nominations Committee; election of two members of the Executive Board . . Communication from the Argentine Embassy . . . . Interpretation or amendment of Staff Regulations with respect to standards of integrity . . . . . . . . .
46 REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE; ELECTION OF TWO MEMBERS OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD
(1) The PRESIDENT - I call upon the Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
(2) Mr. BENDER (Netherlands) (Chairman of the Nominations Committee) - Mr. President and fellow delegates, I have the honour to report that the Nominations Committee met at noon today to consider the nomination to the General Conference of members of the Executive Board to fill the va- cancies caused by the resignations of Dr. Luther Evans and of Mr. Ribnikar. I have been asked by the President to tell you that on 2 July 1953 he received a letter from Dr. Luther Evans resigning from his position on the Executive Board. In accordance with a proposal which was unanimously approved, the nominations for the vacant seats were considered separately. The proposal of the Head of the United States delegation was that Dr. John A. Perkins, United States of America, should be elected to serve until the close of the Ninth Session for the unexpired term of office of Dr. Luther Evans. This suggestion was supported by the Heads of the delegations of the Netherlands and of Brazil and was adopted by acclamation. Perhaps, Mr. President, you would like to deal with this case first,
(3) The PRESIDENT - We shall take up this question first. The Nominations Committee has nom- inated unanimously, by acclamation, Dr. Perkins for the unexpired portion of Dr. Luther Evans’ membership of the Executive Board. Does this General Conference approve of that nomination? - 44 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s III-4 He is now elected unanimously a member of the Executive Board. I call upon the Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
(4) Mr. BENDER (Netherlands) (Chairman of the Nominations Committee) - The Head of the United Kingdom delegation, supported by the Heads of the delegations of Mexico, Spain and Canada, pro- posed the nomination of Dr. Hermann Zeissl, Austria. The Head of the Chinese delegation, sup- ported by the delegations of Brazil, Japan and India, proposed the nomination of Mr. Nathaniel Massaquoi, Liberia. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure a secret ballot then took place. The results of the ballot were as follows: Dr. Zeissl, 22 votes; Mr. Nathaniel Massaquoi, 21 votes. The number of Member States entitled to vote at this session is 62. The number of delegations ab- sent from the meeting of the Nominations Committee was 16. The number of abstentions recorded was 2. The number of invalid voting papers was one. The number of votes recorded was 43. The number of votes constituting the majority required for election was therefore 22, thus giving the result which I announced earlier. It is therefore my privilege to propose to you the name of Dr. Zeissl, Austria, to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of Mr. Vladislav Ribnikar.
(5) The PRESIDENT - The General Conference has before it the nomination of Dr. Zeiss1 to the vacancy caused by the resignation of Mr. Ribnikar of Yugoslavia. Are there any comments or sug- gestions? I call upon the delegate of China.
(6) Mr. CHEN Yuan (China) - Mr. President and fellow delegates, according to the report of the Chairman of the Nominations Committee the voting this morning was very close, and the majority of one candidate over the other was only one vote. According to this report sixteen Member States were absent from the Conference room. Such being the case, I suggest that it is only fair that the names of both the candidates should be put forward again, and the opportunity of voting upon them should be given. I personally admire and like Dr. Zeissl of Austria very much and should be glad to see him a member of the Board some day; but I think it more important that the great Continent of Africa should be represented on the Board, so I propose again the name of Mr. Nathaniel Massaquoi of Liberia.
(7) The PRESIDENT - Is this seconded ? I recognize the delegate of Brazil, who seconds the pro- posal. Now we have two names before us - the Nominations Committee’s name, Dr. Zeissl. and the name of the Liberian candidate, Mr. Nathaniel Massaquoi. Does anyone wish to speak? I call upon the delegate of Spain.
(8) Count de CASA ROJAS (Spain) - (Translation from the Spanish) I think we are confronted here by a question of procedure. The Nominations Committee having met this morning to select a can- didate, we should first of all decide whether or not we accept the candidate it has proposed to us, and then, if we reject its proposal, go on to consider the other candidates. Otherwise, if we are to consider both the candidates proposed, there was no need for us to meet this morning and our pro- ceedings during this hour and a half will have been useless. In my opinion, the decision reached this morning by the Nominations Committee means that a candidate has been proposed, If that can- didate is not accepted, we shall then propose another. That was the procedure in the case of Dr. Luther Evans. Votes were cast for several candidates at the meeting of the Executive Board, but only one was proposed to us here. The Executive Board put forward only one name to the Nomina- tions Committee - that of Dr. Luther Evans. If we had not accepted him, we should have perhaps selected another candidate; but I think we should be misinterpreting the Rules of Procedure if we now cancel the decision we have reached after so much trouble this morning.
(9) The PRESIDENT - The position in this matter is that, according to Rule of Procedure 95 the General Conference at each of its ordinary sessions shall elect by secret ballot ten members of the Executive Board. Only delegates nominated either by the Nominations Committee or by two dele- gations, before the ballot, may stand for election. Here the other candidate has been suggested by two delegations. Thus, the Nominations Committee has suggested one name, and the other candidate has been put forward by two delegations. The candidature is therefore valid and we have thus to proceed to a vote by ballot. I take it that is agreed. Are there any other nominations? The tellers will be from the delegations of Sweden and Peru. A vote was taken by roll-call.
(10) The PRESIDENT - Here are the results of the election: Member States entitled to vote at the session, 62. Number of States absent, 6. Abstentions, 2. Number of invalid votes, none. Number - 45 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   III-4 P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s of valid votes recorded, 54. Number of votes constituting the majority required, 28. Mr. Nathaniel Massaquoi, 30 votes. Dr. Zeissl, 24 votes. I declare Mr. Nathaniel Massaquoi elected a member of the Executive Board until the end of the Eighth Session of the General Conference. That will complete the unexpired period of Mr. Ribnikar’s mandate. The Acting Director-General has a statement to make. COMMUNICATION FROM THE ARGENTINE EMBASSY
(11) The ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL - The Conference will recall that, at the opening of the session, a list was read out of Member States which had not paid their recent contributions to the point that would entitle them to vote. I have today received a communication from the Embassy of Argentina which I think I should read into the record for you: (Translation from the Spanish) “I have the pleasure of informing you that the sum of 60.181.945 French francs, the amount of Argentina’s contribution for 1951, has been placed at the disposal of Unesco by the Argentine Government. At the same time I would ask the Director-General to be good enough to inform me into what bank account this sum should be paid. ” INTERPRETATION OR AMENDMENT OF STAFF REGULATIONS WITH RESPECT TO STANDARDS OF INTEGRITY
(12) The PRESIDENT - We shall now consider items 12 and 15 of the revised agenda (2 XC/7 and Addenda 1 and 2; 2 XC/10 and 2 XC/DR. 3). In the General Committee this morning it was under- stood that we should begin with item 15, the proposal of the United States delegation, as it is more comprehensive. If it is adopted, the other fails. If it is not adopted, we shall take up the other. I call upon the Head of the United States delegation.
(13) Mr. SALOMON (United States of America) - Mr. President and fellow delegates, the Govern- ment of the United States of America has requested the inclusion of an item on the agenda of the Second Extraordinary Session of the Unesco Conference entitled “Interpretation or amendment of Staff Regulations with respect to standards of integrity”, and has circulated a draft resolution to be considered in this connexion. You have before you copies of document 2 XC/DR. 3. The United States of America has submitted this item for discussion, because it deals with the issue, as out- lined in the documentation presented in connexion with item 12, which does not place in its proper perspective the problem with which Unesco is faced. Item 12 deals with the “Application to Unesco of the Executive Order of the President of the United States of America, dated 9 January 1953”. And the documentation thereunder calls for no action by the General Conference. The central pro- blem which needs to be examined is not in fact the application of any one Member State’s policy to Unesco, as this title implies. The central question raised in document 2 XC/7 relates to the inter- pretation to be given to the Staff Regulations and the power of the Director-General thereunder with regard to the standards of integrity to be applied. This is a matter wholly distinct from and of far more concern than the procedures of relationship between Unesco and any one government. Because this larger question is of paramount importance, we believe it is one with which all Member States are concerned, and it is therefore one upon which action by this Extraordinary Session of the General Conference is necessary.
(14) The resolution which the United States of America is proposing is designed to meet the im- portant issue in a manner consistent with what has always been basic Unesco policy, namely, to harmonize Unesco personnel policies with that of the United Nations. This is altogether logical and reasonable. Let us examine the matter before us and the implications of the United States draft re- solution in more detail.
(15) The effect of what the Director-General and Executive Board report in document 2 XC/7 as the interpretation of the Staff Regulations to date is to render the Director-General powerless to act to protect the interest of the Organization in the face of evidence that convinces the Director-General that there is a real, not remote - I repeat real - likelihood of a staff member engaging in subversive activity against a Member State. This is in striking contrast to the position of the Secretary-General of the United Nations.
(16) The interpretation raises two issues. One question is that of the adequacy of Unesco’s authority to administer its own affairs so that it can maintain the high quality required in an international civil service. The other is the question of achieving and maintaining consistency between Unesco’s personnel policies and those of the United Nations and of the other Specialized Agencies. - 46 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s III-4
(17) In order that the staff of Unesco may serve the interest of the Organization, the appointment and tenure of staff have been placed in the hands of the Director-General, operating under policies laid down by the General Conference. No one government can dictate that a particular person be appointed to the staff, nor can it dictate that his services be terminated. These decisions must be made by the administrative authorities of the Organization. This view has always been upheld and continues to be upheld by the Government of the United States of America in common with the rest of the governments. Out of this policy has grown a concept of international civil service, each member of which occupies a special position of trust and confidence.
(18) This places upon the officials of Unesco a heavy responsibility for the selection of staff. At best, the staff should be regarded by Member Governments as trusted friends and co-workers. At the very least, the governments of Unesco or any international organization should have the right to expect that the organization would not retain on its staff any person who is a threat to the very foundations of a Member State.
(19) This entire question has been considered by the United Nations. After a thorough review of United Nations personnel policy to date, during the course of which the advice of three international jurists was obtained, the Secretary-General of the United Nations arrived at the conclusion that the United Nations should not employ, or continue in employment, any person the organization found to be engaged, or likely to be engaged in subversive activities against a Member State. The decision, of course, must be his own and not that of a Member State. He also concluded, and the international jurists so advised, that there was ample authority under the Staff Regulations to implement such a policy.
(20) As a result of General Assembly consideration of this policy and its action at its Seventh Ses- sion, the Secretary-General of the United Nations retains the authority to follow such a policy and the Assembly plans to review how this authority has been administered at the Eighth Session and to consider whether further action by the Assembly, if any, is necessary.
(21) The purpose of the United States draft resolution which is before you is to affirm that the Director-General of Unesco has similar authority without prejudicing the outcome of a further re- view of this question by the General Assembly of the United Nations at its next session. At the last session of the General Conference, Unesco adopted Staff Regulations similar to those of the United Nations in the belief that international organizations in the United Nations should follow a common personnel policy, It is altogether logical and desirable that, when regulations are made uniform, so should the interpretations thereof. It would be impossible to maintain a common personnel policy among United Nations and its Specialized Agencies if eleven different agencies - or even two - were to adopt different interpretations as to standards of integrity and the fundamental obligations expected of staff members.
(22) The granting of such powers to the Administrative Officer are safeguarded in Unesco as in the United Nations against abuse by the fact that the administration of such powers is subject to the review of the General Conference, and the individual staff member has a clear-cut right of appeal to an independent tribunal. The United States draft resolution specifically calls for a review of action taken by the Director-General at the next session of the General Conference.
(23) Furthermore, as I have talked with other delegates about the substance of this draft resolution circulated by the United States delegation, certain questions have been asked which I believe derive from basic misunderstandings. These are reasonable questions and I would like therefore to say a word by way of further explanation.
(24) It has been asked, for example, if the United States draft resolution would in practice subject Unesco’s administration to the control of one or more national governments? I do not believe this to be the case. It is not intended to impose the will of any one Member State upon Unesco either in respect to its own nationals or those of any other Member State. It is rather to underline the author- ity of the Organization itself over its own Secretariat. The exercise of that authority rests exclu- sively within Unesco itself, as does the responsibility for maintaining the integrity of the staff.
(25) We have never deviated from the proposition that the authority to employ and to discharge rests exclusively with Unesco under the regulations and policies determined by the General Conference. There is no intention of the present Government of the United States of America to deviate from this concept, which is essential to the success of the United Nations system.
(26) I have been told that there is concern that the exercise of authority by the Director-General may become arbitrary even if it is not dominated by the will of a Member State. Actually the staff of Unesco is thoroughly protected against arbitrary action by many provisions in the Staff Regula- tions and staff rules, and notably by a comprehensive appeals procedure, including access to the Administrative Tribunal of the International Labour Organization. In addition, the General Confer- ence to whom the Director-General is responsible regularly reviews the work of the Organization and our resolution specifically calls for a report on this subject at the Eighth Session of the General Conference, - 47 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   III-4 P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s
(27) I do not believe - my Government does not believe - that the interpretation contained in the United States draft resolution constitutes in any way a threat to the proper status, professional well- being and competence of international civil servants. Nor does it represent any departure from ac- cepted principles of justice and respect for freedom of thought which is the inherent principle of Unesco. In fact, the policy proposed to you by this draft resolution should bring even greater res- pect for the Unesco Secretariat, and its fair administration should remove any legitimate grounds for lack of confidence in the Unesco staff which may exist even in the most sceptical and doubting minds, wherever they might be.
(28) Just one further word about our draft resolution. As far as shortness of time has permitted, we have taken counsel with many delegations present at this Conference. We wish we had the time to see more of our fellow delegates. The resolution now before you represents considerable chan- ges from our original draft. These changes have been made in the light of suggestions which we have received from other delegations. We believe that the resolution as it stands now will satisfac- torily help allay any misunderstandings or misgivings which may have been held by delegations here present.
(29) To summarize then, Mr. President, the purpose of the United States resolution is simply to record the desire of this General Conference that the interpretations given to Unesco’s staff regula- tions can and should be consistent with the interpretation being given now and in the future to the same regulations in the United Nations.
(30) Because the implications of this policy are vital both to the future of Unesco and the support and confidence of Member States, we earnestly hope that the General Conference will approve this reso- lution.
(31) The PRESIDENT - I call upon the delegate of Switzerland.
(32) Mr. PIAGET (Switzerland) - (Translation from the French) Mr. President, my Government has instructed our delegation to defend the principle of the autonomy and freedom of international organizations, in other words to defend the honour and the dignity of the international civil service.
(33) The problem that has just been put before us is a serious one. It is serious in so far as it concerns the autonomy of Unesco, that is to say the separation of powers between an international authority and national authorities. It is serious, in the second place, in so far as it concerns countries which have international institutions on their territory and which have undertaken to gua- rantee the immunity of their international officials. It is quite possible that conflicts may arise between the measures that are being proposed to us and the existing agreements between internation- al institutions and the countries where they have their seat, for these countries have undertaken to respect the freedom of the organizations and the immunity of their officials. The problem is also serious because of the psychological repercussions on the staff, which cannot but be perturbed and disheartened in certain cases by such measures, though it has need of all its enthusiasm if it is to serve the international ideal. For example, during the discussion of this problem in the Board we received a delegation from the Unesco Staff Association, which submitted its observations in a perfectly dignified and convincing manner, observations which were not always taken into account.
(34) What, after all, is the heart of the matter? It concerns two points. First, there is the con- duct of officials who are already serving in the Organization. As far as that goes, in our present position and with the present Staff Regulations, the Director-General has all the powers he needs to take action against any possible breaches of international loyalty, and the staff on its side has all the powers and the guarantees necessary for defending itself. The problem arises principally, however, over candidates for official posts. Here the Organization only appoints candidates approved by their Government; the Member States thus already possess all the powers they need to exclude undesirable candidates. The temporary measures which the Board voted, against a minority of whom I was one, seem to me: (1) entirely useless, because everything can take place between the candidate and his Government before he submits his candidature officially to Unesco, and without Unesco being concerned in the matter at all; (2) they seem to me dangerous, because they create a confusion of powers between the Organization and its Member States; (3) finally, they seem to me no less dangerous because, if every Member State were to demand analogous measures, we should be confronted with insurmountable difficulties. Nevertheless, the greatest danger in the present state of affairs seems to me to be that a discussion like this creates an atmosphere of suspicion and in certain cases of demoralization which is in the interests neither of the Organization nor of its Member States. The repercussions of the Board’s provisional decisions have already been consi- derable; they have led to a profound sense of uneasiness in public opinion and among intellectuals; only enemies of international organizations and of collaboration between the peoples can take any comfort from this action, and that is not what we want. My Government therefore thinks that the present Staff Regulations are entirely satisfactory and that it would be dangerous to meddle with them. - 48 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s III-4
(35) Mr. MUDALIAR (India) - Mr. President and fellow delegates, I think we find ourselves in a very extraordinary situation which must be seriously considered by every delegate attending this Conference. The position is not as simple as it was made out to be, for I think there are certain fundamental considerations which we ought to weigh before we accede to or reject the resolution, or before we alter it. We have listened with the greatest attention to the speech by the Head of the American delegation and I, for one, must confess that I have not been able to appreciate why at this psychological juncture he has found it necessary to introduce a document of this nature for the con- sideration of the Conference.
(36) As I said, I do not think the matter a simple one. Nor do I think it very relevant that we should be asked to adopt a procedure that has been adopted by the Secretary-General of the United Nations or even confirmed by the United Nations Assembly. I should like to repeat what Professor Piaget has said, namely, that we are an autonomous Organization and our duty and our powers are strictly defined in the Articles of our Constitution. I need hardly refer to Article X wherein it is stated: “This Organization shall be brought into relation with the United Nations Organization as soon as practicable.. This relationship shall be effected through an agreement with the United Nations under Article 63 of the Charter, which agreement shall be subject to the approval of the General Conference of this Organization. ” That preliminary step was already taken six years ago when this Organization was founded, and I should like to emphasize the fact that even that arrangement was subject to the approval of the General Conference. In other words, therefore, the General Conference is the supreme authority in questions pertaining to the conduct of its business and its administration. The purpose of the agreement is indicated in Article X: “The agreement shall provide for effective co- operation between the two organizations in the pursuit of their common purposes, and at the same time shall recognize the autonomy of this Organization, within the fields of its competence as de- fined in this Constitution. ”
(37) The Head of the United States delegation has suggested that, because the Secretary-General has interpreted the rules in a particular manner, the Director-General of our Organization also was bound to interpret them in a similar manner. I wish emphatically to repudiate such a suggestion. In fact, I feel, fellow delegates, that Unesco is the most important Organization among all the Spe- cialized Agencies and should give the lead in regard to matters pertaining to freedom of thought, freedom of action and freedom to conduct its affairs in its own manner. In fact, I believe that it is the particular responsibility of Unesco to guide other organizations, including the United Nations, in this very important respect. Moreover, it has been indicated that the Secretary-General has interpreted certain regulations. The regulations are those of the United Nations, and with a view to ensuring consistency we are asked to follow suit. Let me repeat that co-ordination in regard to the working of the Specialized Agencies and the United Nations does not mean, and cannot be under- stood as, subordination in regard to the activities of our Organization. We have our own standpoint; we desire to maintain our own position in regard to the interpretation of these regulations, and we are also resolved to see that our Director-General is assured of the support he has every reason to expect from us and from the whole of this Conference.
(38) Let me now refer to the text of the draft resolution presented to this Conference by the United States delegation. It begins with the words: “Recognizing that it is desirable for the United Nations Agencies to follow a common personnel policy; that, toward this end, Unesco has adopted staff regulations similar to those of the United Nations, in which the fundamental obligations placed on staff members are the same.. . ”
(39) I welcome that statement. But if the United Nations is thinking of a different policy, it should not have adopted that policy without prior consultation with these other Agencies which also have a say in the matter, and which should have been taken fully into confidence before any such new inter- pretation was adopted. The Head of the American delegation has not suggested why, at this particular juncture, a new interpretation is sought in regard to the manner in which the regulations have been interpreted so far. I think we can take it that the Acting Director-General has understood his res- ponsiblity and has realized how far he should note the obligations of the members clearly defined in the Articles of the Constitution and in the Staff Regulations, which do not permit of any new inter- pretation being introduced at this time.
(40) The second paragraph reads: “Considers that the policy of Unesco in this matter should be in accord with that of the United Nations with regard to interpreting the obligations of staff members and the powers of the Director-General to maintain the integrity of the Secretariat. ” I submit that this is really begging the question and, for the reasons that I have already given, it would be disas- trous for this Organization, for the autonomous nature of this Organization, and for the responsibi- lities of the Director-General, if we should all the time be looking to interpretations from the Secretary-General and from the United Nations to regulate our conduct in regard to our own Secre- tariat staff. Professor Piaget has referred to the great demoralization that would occur in the Secretariat. I am prepared to say that there is already evidence of that great demoralization creeping - 49 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   III-4 P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s into the Secretariat, and that evidence has been submitted in the very modest and respectful memo- randum that the Association has placed before members. I feel therefore that an interpretation such as this, the acceptance of a resolution such as this, would vitiate the whole atmosphere of the Secretariat and make every member of the Secretariat feel that his obligations are not to an internal organization but to something nebulous, something which he himself is not able correctly to appre- ciate, and which will therefore make his task all the more difficult.
(41) Mr. President, I shall be very frank - and I think in these matters and on these occasions a little frankness is desirable, even if it may be misunderstood. We had yesterday, in a secret ses- sion, the substance of which I am not going to reveal, much evidence of the perplexed state of mind of many members. Let me assure you, Sir, from the conversations I have had, that this document, or the proposed document, was in the minds of many members. We have appointed a new Director- General. He is a gentleman in whom we have very great confidence. Let us not weaken his position by adopting a resolution of this kind. He is in a very difficult situation, as he is a national of the Government introducing this particular document. His position therefore is none too enviable and if we adopt the draft resolution and its implications, that position will become exceedingly embar- rassing. Whatever he does, in good faith or not - and I trust and believe that it will always be in good faith - will be subject to very severe criticism for various reasons. From that very point of view I appeal to my friend, the Head of the United States delegation, not to complicate matters at this moment and not to make the task of our future Director-General more difficult than it may al- ready be at present.
(42) Moreover, Mr. President, I do not see why notice has not been taken of the document of the Executive Board to which you have referred. The Executive Board, after very careful considera- tion, reached this conclusion. I think it is only right that we should have enough faith in our Board to feel that they can take the responsibility without any great difficulty, to see that the Organization does not suffer, that no Member State suffers and that the Secretariat will discharge its duties as it ought to in terms of international obligations. I therefore venture to suggest a small amendment to the draft resolution. I propose to delete the paragraph: “Considers that the policy of Unesco in this matter should be in accord with that of the United Nations with regard to interpreting the obli- gations of staff members and the powers of the Director-General to maintain the integrity of the Secretariat. . . ” and to make what is now the third paragraph read: “Requests the Executive Board and the Director-General to submit to the Eighth Session of the General Conference a report on the conduct and development of personnel policy. ”
(43) I may also add, Mr. President, that this subject is not closed, even in the United Nations. I know for a fact that the whole position is going to be reviewed by the International Civil Service Board which is meeting next month, and that body will give its opinion as to the interpretation, re- vision or amendment of any of the Staff Rules. Under those circumstances I think it would be ex- tremely unfortunate, premature and wholly undesirable to accept the draft resolution in the form in which it has been introduced by the Head of the United States delegation, and I respectfully commend to you the amendment that I ventured to suggest for your acceptance.
(44) Mr. STANKOVIC (Yugoslavia) - (Translation from the French) Mr. President, fellow delegates, the Yugoslav delegation considers that very special attention should be paid to this item in the agenda of the General Conference, particularly on account of the negative results which might follow from a decision which did not fully correspond with the nature, the aims and the dignity of an Organization such as ours.
(45) When we examine this question, we feel it is necessary, I would say indispensable, to abide by the fundamental principles on which this Organization is built and the provisions of the Constitution, which lays down in Article VI, paragraph 5: “The responsibilities of the Director-General and of the staff shall be exclusively international in character. In the discharge of their duties, they shall not seek or receive instructions from any government or from any authority external to the Organ- ization. They shall refrain from any action which might prejudice their position as international officials. Each State Member of the Organization undertakes to respect the international character of the responsibilities of the Director-General and the staff, and not to seek to influence them in the discharge of their duties. ” This Article of the Constitution lays particular emphasis on the exclu- sively international character of the staff of the Organization, a character which is necessitated by its aims and duties.
(46) Furthermore, Regulation I. 4 of the Staff Regulations prohibits officials of the Organization from engaging in any form of activity incompatible with the proper discharge of their duties: “While they are not expected to give up religious or political convictions or national sentiment, they shall at all times exercise the reserve and tact incumbent upon them by reason of their international res- ponsibilities. ” This Staff Regulation makes it clear that the political view of these officials does not concern the Organization, but it implies the taking of disciplinary measures for any action, of - 50 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s III-4 whatever kind, which might prejudice the international character of their position or the reputation of the Organization itself.
(47) The adoption of a special procedure (the circulation, by Unesco itself, of private question- naires) designed to check the loyalty of an official of the Organization to the country of which he is a national would represent the abandonment of the principles which I have just quoted. The intro- duction of a purely national element in the assessment of the loyalty of officials is a precedent, the negative results of which might make themselves speedily felt in the work of the Secretariat. When it comes to selecting a new official, Unesco takes into account the fact that the country of which the candidate in question is a national, considers him as a loyal citizen, but in our opinion, Unesco, as an international Organization. should not become an instrument for checking this loyalty.
(48) One thing is certain about the demand in question, so far as it concerns persons who are already officials of Unesco: any act of espionage or any subversive activity by an official of the Organization, any activity directed against the interests of no matter what Member State, is a grave breach of the Staff Regulations which calls for his dismissal. Thus, in any particular case, any Member State can demand the application of the Regulations in this sense, but in such a case the Member State putting forward the demand is bound to submit to the Director-General proofs that the official con- cerned has been engaged in activities contrary to the Regulations of the Organization. The position is very different if the dismissal of an official is to be demanded on nothing but the “a priori” hypo- thesis that he might possibly engage in espionage or in subversive activity. It is our view that this would not be in accordance with the Organization’s Staff Regulations, and that the adoption of such a standpoint would not only require a modification of these Regulations, but would introduce an ele- ment of instability into the position of the officials which might create an atmosphere of fear and of pressure in the Secretariat, among whose ranks it would be difficult for the independence and the international character of the Organization to survive. Naturally a further result of this would be a repercussion on the reputation which the Organization enjoys in the world.
(49) The Yugoslav delegation agrees with the point of view expressed by the Executive Board at its Thirty-third Session, according to which the refusal by an official to complete a questionnaire not drawn up by the Organization is not in itself a ground for disciplinary action, since in such a case officials are required to comply only with the provisions of the Organization’s Regulations. But the Yugoslav delegation also considers that Unesco should not even circulate to its officials, or to can- didates for posts in the Organization, the questionnaires which certain Member States might wish to address to their nationals, for an international organization should not serve as the instrument of any Member State, even from a technical point of view.
(50) The Yugoslav delegation therefore considers that: the existing provisions and procedures for the recruitment of officials satisfactorily fulfil their aim; the Organization’s present engagement form makes it possible to obtain all the necessary in- formation on candidates for posts in the Secretariat, and no measure of enquiry can be applied, in regard to officials of the Secretariat, through the instrumentality of the Organization, on the re- quest of any individual Member State, since this is in contradiction with the international spirit in which Unesco was conceived, by means of which alone it can fulfil the great tasks that devolve on it, and with the actual provisions of the Constitution and the Staff Regulations.
(51) The Yugoslav delegation wishes to emphasize yet again that this matter involves an extremely important question of principle and that it is indispensable that the General Conference should con- sider it with the utmost attention, for it is not to be tolerated that the smallest doubt should for an instant be felt with regard to the independence and the international character of the Organization.
(52) In conclusion, I should like to say a few words about the draft resolution tabled by the United States delegation which I have just this moment read; the Yugoslav delegation is not satisfied with this draft. It is not sufficiently clear and it does not bring out the essential point, that is to say that Unesco should confine itself strictly to the provisions of its Constitution and its Staff Regulations. Again, the draft would adjourn any decision on a concrete case which appears on the agenda and which has been brought up by a Member State. The Yugoslav delegation considers that the Conference should adopt a clearer and more definite attitude on a question whose importance for the Organiza- tion’s dignity and prestige can escape no one.
(53) Count d’ASPREMONT LYNDEN (Belgium) - (Translation from the French) The draft resolution placed before us by the United States delegation is designed to achieve an aim of which the Belgian delegation entirely approves, that is to say, that the Specialized Agencies of the United Nations in general, and Unesco in particular, should bring their policy into harmony with that of the Secreta- riat of the United Nations as far as the rights and duties of international officials are concerned. It would be no less contrary to logic than to equity if the criteria of loyalty applicable to international officials varied according to the country which is the seat of the organization to which they - 51 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   III-4 P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s belong and if the same rules were not applied in Paris and Rome as in Geneva and New York.
(54) Nothing could do more harm to the interests and prestige of the institution of the United Nations than if the severity of decisions in this delicate matter were to be influenced by views on the loyalty of officials which varied from country to country, The loyalty of international officials should be judged, not by national criteria, but by criteria proper to these international institutions; these criteria should be identical for all the organizations of the United Nations. That means that we are in complete agreement with the aim of the draft resolution submitted to us. All the same, I must admit that the text we have before us does not give us entire satisfaction, for its wording contains elements of uncertainty and misunderstanding. It appears to relate to a policy which is said to have been formulated by the Secretary-General of the United Nations and approved by the Seventh As- sembly in the second part of its session. However, when I look at the text. of resolution 708(VII), which was voted by a large majority on 1 April 1953, I perceive that this by no means constitutes a
100 per cent approval of the report presented by the Secretary-General of the United Nations. In the course of the discussion, a number of delegations representing countries of the free and demo- cratic world - for example, those of the Netherlands, Sweden, France and the United Kingdom, not to speak of our own country - expressed opinions that were by no means indulgent to the Secretary- General’s report. The resolution which was adopted at the end of the debate begins by recalling Articles 100 and 101 of the Charter, which define in terms of general principles the duties of offi- cials of the Secretariat; it then expresses its confidence that the Secretary-General will in future conduct personnel policy with the considerations contained in these Articles and in his report in mind. Finally, it asks him to submit a new report to the Eighth Session of the Assembly after having sought the opinion of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions, and also that of the administrative heads of the Specialized Agencies. All this shows that no definitive policy on criteria for the assessment of the loyalty of international officials has as yet been laid down. This is confirmed by the fact that a number of officials of the Secretariat have appealed to the Adminis- trative Tribunal over decisions taken in their case, “and that it has yet to pronounce on these mea- sures. We must also, I feel, take into account another element, one of fact: the Secretary-General of the United Nations, whose discretion in the assessment of these criteria is absolute, has changed.
(55) For all these reasons it would seem that no policy on the rights and duties of international of- ficials has yet been definitively laid down by the General Assembly of the United Nations. In these circumstances, the Belgian delegation believes that the draft resolution which has just been put before us is premature and that no document of this kind will have real significance and real author- ity till the General Assembly of the United Nations, at its Eighth Session next autumn, has pro- nounced on the report which it requested the Secretary-General to present to it by resolution 708 (VII) which it voted on 1 April 1953. My opinion, like that of the eminent delegate of Switzerland to whom we have just listened, is in favour of the maintenance of the “status quo”,
(56) Mr. MARIE (France) - (Translation from the French) Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the very modest aim I have set myself in rising to speak - I should like to make it clear at once - is to persuade your Organization, in view of the variety of proposals which it already has before it and which may yet remain to be put forward, to instruct a drafting committee to lay down with pre- cision the rules which the new Director-General of our Organization is to follow in the preparation of the report which we are all agreed in asking him to submit on the eve of the Eighth Session.
(57) You will readily understand why I feel I should urge that we should not vote here, in the at- mosphere of this General Conference, on resolutions whose discussion we have followed so atten- tively, and why I believe it to be necessary to compare these drafts and to take note of possible amendments in the tranquillity of a special committee. The speeches of the eminent delegates of Belgium, Switzerland and India have made us all realize that the question with which we are dealing today goes right down to one of those sentiments that inspired us possibly with the greatest ardour when it brought us together in the fold of Unesco. When I say that, I base myself on the act of faith which was at the very origin of our Organization; I base myself on the actual terms of the Conven- tion which established our Organization, and in which, with a unanimous enthusiasm and fervour, the Governments of the States which set their names to it declared on behalf of their peoples that the dignity of man demanded the diffusion of culture and the education of humanity for justice, liberty and peace. The same instrument stated, in Article I, that the Organization should further universal respect for justice, for the rule of law, and for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and the third paragraph of this Article laid down that “with a view to preserving the independence, integrity” - a word which we shall come across again in a moment and over whose interpretation we shall have to linger - “with a view”, I was saying, “to preserving the independence, integrity and fruitful diversity of the cultures and educational systems of the States Members of this Organization, the Organization is prohibited from interfering in matters which are essentially within their domestic jurisdiction. ” Such were the basic principles, the essential principles in which the unanimous - 52 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s III-4 enthusiasm of all the United Nations then expressed itself: this enthusiasm was to prescribe to the officials of Unesco, to the staff of our international Organization, the elementary rules of their be- haviour. The Staff Regulations laid down these rules in precise terms at the Seventh Session of our Organization, in 1952. Regulation I. 4 set forth - and it was you who voted it unanimously in this very hall - the duties and the obligations of the staff of Unesco.
(58) Here is what it says and in my view its liberal interpretation, indeed its exact, not to say strict interpretation, should suffice to determine the relationships of our Organization and its staff. “Members of the Secretariat shall conduct themselves at all times in a manner consonant with the good repute and high purposes of the Organization and their status as international civil servants. They shall not engage in any activity that is incompatible with the proper discharge of their duties. They shall avoid any action, and in particular any kind of public pronouncement, which would ad- versely reflect upon their position as international officials. While they are not expected to give up their religious or political convictions or national sentiment, they shall at all times exercise the reserve and tact incumbent upon them by reason of their international responsibilities. ”
(59) Such are the rules which today govern the behaviour incumbent on our staff and the staff of the Secretariat. There are perhaps some of us here who feel that the precise application of these rules is sufficient to determine the conditions of the activity of this staff. There are some of us who think - and I am glad to associate myself here with the idea of our friends of the great American democracy - there are some of us who think that it is not possible for an official of the Secretariat of Unesco to dissociate in his mind the rules of international propriety from national rules. It is hardly possible to love the whole world, to love humanity, to serve the world and humanity, unless one be- gins by loving and by serving one’s own country. That is why the judicious interpretation of these documents appeared to us to be a sound rule, and one in complete conformity with the Convention which is the basis of our Organization. Our eminent colleagues of the great American democracy have, however, submitted a proposal to us; I believe that this draft calls for certain clarifications. It is because a number of us feel these clarifications to be indispensable that I address myself to them with a friendliness which I do not imagine they doubt, which they cannot doubt, and I ask them to agree to the proposal which I am putting forward: to submit all the draft resolutions to a special drafting committee. The draft resolution which our colleagues of the American delegation have put before us begins by asserting a principle which, with some reservations as regards its form, com- mands, I should think, the unanimous support of the delegates present here. It states that it is de- sirable for the United Nations Agencies to follow a common personnel policy. It recalls that Unesco has in fact, with a view to respecting this principle, adopted staff regulations similar to those of the United Nations, in which the fundamental obligations placed on staff members are the same.
(60) I think I can say there is no objection to this first section of the preamble. The motion then goes on: “Considers that the policy of Unesco in this matter should be in accord with that of the United Nations”. We are still in agreement as regards the interpretation of the obligations of mem- bers of the staff and of the Director-General’s powers to safeguard the integrity of the Secretariat. That is true, but perhaps there are some of you, ladies and gentlemen, who might be prepared to vote the resolution, who can see themselves being asked: Since you want the interpretations to be similar, since you want us here to align our interpretation on that of the United Nations, just what is that United Nations interpretation? What are the norms, what are the rules, laid down by the United Nations? I do not criticize them, I express no judgment on them, I merely want to know what they are, and I ask for a report from our Director-General - whom I congratulate, for here I must associate myself with the courageous attitude taken yesterday by our colleague, Mr. Piaget, on his fine election - indicating what are the rules which we ought to follow. What is the interpretation? Is it not natural and the merest common sense that the Director-General of the international orga- nization should come to us with a detailed and circumstantial report and should tell us: “You de- clared that the rules and their interpretation should be similar; we are agreed. Here, then, are the rules followed, and here is how they are followed. ” For we are being asked here to vote for an alignment, to vote for an adaptation to rules of which we know - I am sorry to say - neither the pre- cise range, nor on what resolution, on what decision or even on what collective or individual pro- posals they may be founded. What is more serious is the last paragraph. It does not ask the Direc- tor-General to give us information on this matter or to define our duty on these various points so that, having laid down the principle of a necessary similarity, we shall be agreed on the application of the same rules, the same principles and the same methods. On the contrary it asks him to sub- mit to the General Conference at its Eighth Session a full report on the progress he has made in the conduct and development of personnel policy. That means that without knowing what similarities we want to establish, or with what rules we want to establish them and according to what methods the rules are to be applied, we are asking the Director-General to report to us at Montevideo on what he has been able to do in this field of which, you will allow me to say, the resolution defines exactly neither the directives nor the implications. - 53 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   III-4 P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s
(61) That is why it has seemed necessary to the members of the French delegation and, I hasten to add, of a very fair number of other delegations, to make our point of view quite clear. Our point of view is not a hostile one: it consists in a desire for clarification, a demand for precision in the terms employed, a precision that is necessary if definite action is to follow from it. The draft re- solution which we are tabling, Mr. President, records our agreement on the principles laid down and on our adhesion to these principles, an adhesion which has already been stated by the delegate of Belgium who preceded me here, which I feel should satisfy our colleagues of the American del- egation. Here is what we say: “Noting that it is desirable for the United Nations and their Specialized Agencies to follow a com- mon personnel policy and that towards this end Unesco has adopted staff regulations similar to those of the United Nations, in which the fundamental obligations and guarantees of staff members are identical. ”
(62) I ask you to take note of the fact that this first paragraph, this first part of the preamble, takes over almost word for word the first part of the preamble of the motion we are discussing. I will continue: “Recalling, in these circumstances, the provisions of paragraphs 4 and 5 of Article VI of the Con- stitution of Unesco. ”
(63) In the text that follows we refer to two decisions taken by the General Assembly of the United Nations at its last session. Here is what we say: “Taking note of the fact that by resolution 708 (VII), adopted on 1 April 1953, the General Assembly, after recalling Articles 100 and 101 of the United Nations Charter, (a) requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its Eighth Session a report on the progress made in the conduct and development of personnel policy, together with the comments of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions thereon; (b) invites the Secretary-General and the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions to submit, after appropriate consultations with the administrative heads of the Specialized Agencies, recommendations as to any further action that may be required of the General Assembly. ”
(64) After this reference to the decisions voted by the General Assembly of the United Nations on
1 April 1953, the motion I am submitting for your approval continues in the following manner - and I think that here I am giving complete and absolute satisfaction to my colleagues of the United States delegation: “Expresses the wish that the policy of Unesco in this matter should be in accord with that of the United Nations in regard to the obligations imposed on and the guarantees offered to the person- nel of the Organization. ”
(65) The inclusion of duties inevitably means, in the case of any synallagmatic contract, the inclu- sion of rights as well. We conclude: “Therefore requests the Director-General to report on this question to the Eighth Session of the General Conference, in the light of such measures as may have been taken in this field by the General Assembly of the United Nations. ”
(66) Thus the draft which we have the honour to submit, though not for your immediate approval - I think that in a matter of this kind which so profoundly involves the feelings of all of us it would do serious harm to the higher interests of Unesco if this meeting had to decide between two drafts as though there were some divergence or some hostility between the motives that lie behind the two - the draft, I say, which we are asking you to send to a drafting committee, gives satisfaction to the principle of a necessary similarity between the rules followed at the United Nations and those which should be followed in Unesco. That is the great principle set forth in the first paragraph of the United States motion, and on this point there is no difficulty, and as we are going to meet at Monte- video, as you have already decided, we have added to the task you have assigned the Director-Gen- eral for this Montevideo session, an additional duty in order to conform to the wish expressed in the United States motion. We ask the Director-General to provide us with the clarifications which we do not possess today.
(67) There are two great international organizations: the United Nations, a political Organization, and Unesco, a cultural Organization. In this field it is incontestably for the political Organization - and on this point everyone is agreed - to take the first steps. We ask the Director-General to in- form us at the Eighth Session of the action taken and the applications that may have been made with- in the United Nations, in order that Unesco may then, with a full knowledge of the facts, after re- iterating its desire for a similarity between the policies followed by the United Nations and Unesco, be able to take the necessary measures in its own domain. I maintain that this draft is a clear draft, that it is a conciliatory draft, that it is a draft against which it is impossible to bring up any criticism or make any reservation. If, in its form, any of its terms inspire reservations, - 54 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s III-4 misgivings or criticism, we should be only too glad to give way. It is just because we feel it nec- cessary in this field to end up with a unanimous vote that we respectfully request the General Con- ference, Mr. President, not to consider this draft here and now, but to consider all the drafts, with the amendments tabled by the delegate of India, in order that a committee faithfully representing the different opinions expressed here shall be able to submit to us tomorrow a draft resolution on which, in the interests of Unesco’s greatness and prosperity, we can unanimously achieve our com- plete agreement.
(68) Mr. DAOUD AMMOUN (Lebanon) - (Translation from the French) I think that it would be in our interest to fall in with the proposal Mr. Marie has just made.
(69) Only four officials out of ninety-two have failed to reply to the questionnaire. The matter with which we are dealing is therefore largely academic. The substance of the difference between the interpretation given by the Acting Director-General and that which may have been given by the United Nations - on which, as was quite rightly observed just now, we have not yet any definitive data - concerns a precise point. Have we got to punish “actual” misconduct or what the document calls “potential” misconduct ? The Head of the United States delegation himself told us that the question raised at certain moments was the subversive activities in which an official had engaged or might engage.
(70) Our aim is twofold: we have at the same time to safeguard certain principles and to preserve the efficiency and integrity of the Secretariat of Unesco. For my own part, I should like to strike a realistic note and to say how anxious we are to respect the desires of a State which has been and which continues to be in the vanguard of culture and of civilization and to which our Organization owes so much in the moral and intellectual as well as in the material field. I say this for the Head of the United States delegation. We can safeguard the principle and the clearly expressed wish of this State without stirring up the feelings of which you have just been hearing the echoes at this rostrum.
(71) During the French Revolution there were convicted persons, aristocrats, suspects and a further category: those who were suspected of being suspects. We should be following in the same path if we were to adopt the principle of potential misconduct. I am speaking without irony, and I understand that there are moments when certain States may wish to go as far as that in defending themselves.
(72) Mr. Piaget, however, was telling us just now something on which I should like to have con- firmation, that in fact no official is appointed without the agreement of his Government. In these circumstances, have not the United States delegation and the United States Government complete satisfaction already, without bringing up questions of principle which threaten to divide us, and with- out appealing to the many values to which we are all equally attached, but with different interpreta- tions? Only four officials have not replied. That settles the past. In future, no official will be appointed without the previous agreement of his Government. If these facts are established - and on this point I have not yet had any very clear confirmation, but we will ask the Director-General and Mr. Piaget himself to give it to us presently - I think the discussion becomes meaningless. On the question of principle of bringing the interpretation of our regulations into harmony with those of the United Nations, we could fall in with the French proposal and leave it to a drafting committee to find a formula which will reconcile all the ideas expressed in the course of this debate.
(73) Furthermore, from the procedural point of view once more, there is a co-ordinating commit- tee of all the directors of the international organizations which meets at regular intervals. Not so very long ago our Acting Director-General attended it, and this question might with advantage be examined and perhaps even solved by it.
(74) We are all agreed in feeling that from the moment a man becomes an international official, without renouncing either his convictions or his principles, he must accept certain limitations on the expression of these convictions. But once again, I do not think we need embark on a discussion which is without object, since in fact no official is appointed without the agreement of his Govern- ment. I should therefore like to ask the United States delegation, because we should regret to have to vote against it on a point which it may have at heart, to withdraw this motion. There is only one official who has been appointed without the previous approval of the United States Government, and that is an exception which I hope the United States Government will not hold against the General Conference: it is that of Dr. Luther Evans, whom we yesterday appointed Director-General.
(75) Mr. AGUNG GDE AGUNG (Indonesia) - After studying the documents relating to this item of the agenda, I should like, Mr. President, in the first place to express on behalf of my Government its gratitude for the skilful and able manner in which the Acting Director-General, Dr. John Taylor, has approached this matter during the past months. His attitude deserves the fullest admiration and support of this Conference. He has worked hard to maintain the international character of the - 55 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   III-4 P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s Organization. All of us know that a body like Unesco, whose action depends entirely on the free collaboration of the Member States, has to maintain its international character in order not to dis- courage the voluntary collaboration of the Members constituting the Organization. Should one of the Member States impose its will on the others and act at variance with the rules which bind the Org- anization together, internal animosity will obviously prevail. The foundations of the Organization will thus be shaken and it will ultimately collapse.
(76) The application of the Executive Order of the President of the United States of America to Unesco officials is a matter which we have to consider attentively and with the deepest and most profound concern. We shall thus avoid being faced with the situation I have mentioned. My Govern- ment fully endorses the stand taken by the Acting Director-General in this case. His attitude showed him to be an ardent defender of the real meaning of the Constitution of Unesco and of the maintenance of the international character of the Organization in its real and true sense, That result, however, can only be achieved by the wise guidance of the Director-General and this depends largely on the self-restraint and attitude of the Member States. If we wish to avoid friction and animosity in the Organization, Members must show self-restraint in respecting the Rules and the Constitution of the Organization. If every Member State were to impose on the Organization rules drawn from its own national law which might conflict with those of the Organization. the end of our international body would be very near.
(77) When we examine the application of the above-mentioned Executive Order of the President of the United States of America - this I consider as a further national law or emanation of such a law - I am of opinion that it cannot be applied automatically to Unesco as an international Organization. Unesco cannot undertake to co-operate in applying the Order to its staff and in forcing its officials to submit to it, If Unesco took such action, then I believe that other Member States might also ask Unesco to disregard the rules and the Constitution and that might prove disastrous for us. I am con- vinced that Unesco officials will never lose their nationality in signing a contract with this inter- national Organization. Every Member State is, of course, completely free to deal with its citizens as individuals. Those citizens are members of an international body. The officials are expected to observe and obey the rules of this international Organization in their work. This international Org- anization cannot concern itself with matters which involve the officials as individuals in their rela- tions with the States they come from so long as these officials do their work according to the rules prescribed by the Organization and its Constitution, and by the Director-General as its highest of- ficial. I am of the opinion that there is no reason to brand an official as undisciplined in his rela- tions with Unesco when he refuses to carry out or to fulfil something that is outside the scope of Unesco methods.
(78) I am fully aware of the serious character of the United States proposal in this matter. Unesco may have to take a crucial decision. The proposal will appear especially serious if we examine attentively the letter of the Assistant Secretary of State to the Director-General, dated 20 February
1953, in which he said, on behalf of Mr. Dulles: “He (Secretary Dulles) believes that it is manifest that without this full co-operation the objectives of the Order cannot be achieved, and that without such achievement, continued support of these organizations by the United States of America cannot be assured. ”
(79) In the opinion of my Government it would be disastrous for an international organization based on the free will of its members to be subjected to rules emanating directy from national regulations or laws. Such rules would be in conflict with the actual Constitution of Unesco and would conceal within themselves dangerous elements that would threaten the continued existence of the Organization and its high purposes as set forth in its Constitution.
(80) Therefore, Mr. President, I fully endorse the standpoint of the Executive Board in this mat- ter, which I deem to be in accordance with the spirit of the Constitution of this Organization. As regards the draft resolution of the United States delegation, I think that in its original version and wording it is not compatible with the standpoint of the Executive Board. I think it clear that, during this plenary session, all the amendments proposed to the draft resolution by previous speakers cannot be formulated. I fully endorse the suggestion of the delegations of France and India to form a small committee to study the draft resolution and try to amend it so as to bring it into harmony with the spirit of the Constitution of Unesco as an international Organization.
(81) Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil) - (Translation from the French) Mr. President, fellow delegates, before coming to the resolution we are discussing, I should like to make two preliminary remarks. The first is to declare my feeling of confidence in the intentions with which the United States dele- gation has placed its draft resolution before us. I cannot conceive and I will not for an instant allow myself to think that the country which first raised the flag of freedom on the American Continent, the country which established the first Republic on our Continent, the country which produced Benjamin Franklin, the country which gave us Jefferson, that great statesman who remains a model - 56 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s III-4 for every epoch, the country which only yesterday stirred the world’s conscience through the noble and forceful personality of Franklin Roosevelt, the country which has at its head Eisenhower, the General of freedom, and which for four years defended throughout the world, with the arms of millions of young Americans, those sacred principles that are at the root of our Organization and that led to its creation, I say I cannot for a moment admit that this country intends to put before us a draft resolution which is contrary to freedom and human rights.
(82) I should like to add that I feel that the servants of Unesco, appointed to this Organization to carry out a sacred task, have sacred duties. They have not been called here as specialists for this or that part of a programme and not in their capacity as scholars, educationalists or administrators; they have been summoned to serve Unesco in order to contribute to the maintenance of peace and of security by drawing closer the bonds of collaboration between the nations by means of education, science and culture, so as to ensure universal respect for justice, law, human rights and fundamen- tal freedoms for everyone. What we have to do with here is an order which should lay upon its members the same sort of duty as the orders of chivalry used to do and as the religious orders still do, and their dignity will be all the greater and their security all the better assured once they have agreed to carry out faithfully the duties which are the reason for their presence in our Organization. It is with no intention of detracting in any way from the duties of the servants of Unesco towards the task that falls to them that I am venturing these remarks on the draft resolution before us; on the contrary, it is because I feel the problem ought to be stated in other terms. The point before us is not to discuss whether a servant of Unesco should or should not be loyal to his native country, the point is to know whether Unesco’s officials are or are not loyal to Unesco, because since the voting of its Charter, Unesco has been the conscience of the United Nations. It was not set up to fulfil a purely material mission, but to develop in the world the consciousness of freedom inseparable from the consciousness of order, the reconciliation of the two concepts, order and freedom, which an Organization like ours is destined to achieve. That is the reason why we have hedged the servants of Unesco about with a number of guarantees and, at the same time, of responsibilities. The first of these responsibilities is linked with an obligation which is inherent in the Organization itself: the Organization is prohibited from intervening in matters which are essentially within the domestic jurisdiction of its members.
(83) If the Organization is prohibited from intervening in such matters, the same duty is incumbent on all the servants of this Organization who form part of it and are members of it. Without be- traying his duties towards our Organization, no servant of Unesco can transgress the conditions which determined his admission into the ranks of our Secretariat or can allow himself to indulge in any form of intervention in any matter specifically concerning the States. They shall refrain, says paragraph 5 of Article VI, from any action which might prejudice their position as international officials.
(84) What suspicion can fall on an official of Unesco who fulfils his duties towards it? What sus- picion can fall on an official of Unesco who is obliged - and that is why there is a Director-General of Unesco, and that is why there is an Executive Board of Unesco - strictly to obey the prescriptions of our Charter? If a Unesco official fails in his duties towards the Member States of our Organiza- tion, if he disobeys the clear provisions of this Charter by contributing directly or indirectly to sub- versive action against any one of them, he is committing an act of disloyalty towards the Organiza- tion. It is on this plane, gentlemen, that I should like to examine the problem which you have before you. It is not a question of loyalty to the United States of America, France or Brazil. It is not a question whether a decree has been signed by President Eisenhower, the President of the French Republic or the President of my own country. If in our consideration of the duties of Unesco offi- cials we were obliged to follow the specific laws of our different countries, we should very soon be drowned in a sea of differing legislations, almost always incompatible, which would lead us and would lead our Director-General to a chaos of interpretations.
(85) My Government, having taken note of the United States draft resolution, has given me certain instructions which I shall be happy to examine with you. First of all, it recalls that the United Nations - and we all know this, the question has been quite clearly discussed here - has not yet laid down in a precise and final manner the duties incumbent on international officials and the duties in- cumbent on the directors of these bodies as to sanctions.
(86) There is a very judicious report which will be presented at the next general session and which will then lay down its definitive lines. My Government also reminds me that in any case, and in any formula which may be drafted here, it must be recalled in a clear and definite manner that the Se- cretariat of our Organization has an international and independent character, and that these two points must be considered as sacred and above all discussion. If we have to follow the directives of the United Nations, we must provide those against whom any accusation may be brought with all the necessary guarantees for their defence by seeing that they are not left in the hands of the national courts but are tried by the international jurisdiction which is represented - 57 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   III-4 P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s by this Conference, the Executive Board and the Director-General.
(87) Gentlemen, the proposal which the United States Government has submitted to us has allowed , of a debate which I believe to have been useful and fruitful, but none of us, in a problem of this com- plexity, as rich in shades of meaning as in difficulties, can claim the privilege of having found the exact formula, the definitive last word. If our resolution, whatever it may be, is to have the neces- sary weight and authority, it must be the collective reflection of our Conference. I hope that the Head of the United States delegation will not be insensible to the appeal I am making to him. I have never hesitated to contradict the United States delegation whenever I thought it necessary to oppose its views. I have therefore the fraternal right to ask it, in my turn, to concur in this idea of a common draft which will be hammered out by all the minds that are concentrating on the problem and to surround the Secretariat of Unesco with indispensable guarantees and make it understand, furthermore, that its duties are sacred duties.
(88) Sir Ben Bowen THOMAS (United Kingdom) - Mr. President and fellow delegates, I once heard of two men standing on the roadside when a funeral passed by, and one turned to the other and asked “Whose funeral is this?” and his friend replied: “Mr. So-and-so”; and the first man then asked “Is he dead? ” And the second said, “Do you think it’s a rehearsal?” And as I sat here I could not help wondering whether we were not having a rehearsal of proceedings at Montevideo. That is to say, this draft resolution, in the opinion of the United Kingdom delegation, is premature. The dis- cussion that has taken place is really an interim discussion, and I think it should be approached in that way. The view of the United Kingdom delegation is that, for the purpose of an interim discus- sion, the draft resolution before us submitted by the United States delegation has considerable merits. It has the merit of not going into detail in an interim discussion. It does not involve a legalistic approach and the presentation of documents as though they were verbally inspired. It has, moreover, the merit of not raising general principles that have a tendency also to raise the temperature of discussions, and it has within it the possibilities of wisdom. I remember a profes- sor many years ago in the University of Oxford telling us never to ask in a crisis, “What are all the facts? What is the legal position?” Never ask the question, “What is the principle involved?” Al- ways ask, “What is wise?” That is the merit of the United States resolution as I see it here. It poses suppositions in the name of wisdom, and I would say that it does this in the name of wisdom, for three reasons.
(89) First of all, it safeguards the staff - and we fully appreciate the anxiety in the minds of the staff. There is nothing in this draft resolution that imperils the position of the members of the staff of Unesco as from this day onwards. Secondly, it safeguards the position of the Director-General, The Director-General is the responsible man. He is not, according to this draft resolution, to be dictated to by anything that may happen elsewhere. But he would be the most foolish of men were he at the moment to decide that his mind is closed, that whatever happens elsewhere is not relevant to him, and that a position that he may have taken up in the past is an unchangeable position and one that cannot be altered in any respect and under any conditions. It seems to me that a man in his position is bound to have regard to what happens elsewhere, to what happens in New York and in other Specialized Agencies, in order that he may be able to reach the wisest decisions possible in the interests of the Organization. And then, Mr. President, this resolution has the great merit of saying that we, in this Extraordinary Session, are not called upon to reach final decisions. We ask, and I am sure we accept the amendment that was made by a previous speaker at the rostrum, that the Executive Board and the Director-General between them shall prepare for the next Confer- ence at Montevideo a body of information and guidance based on events that will happen in the meanwhile. That will enable us at that particular stage to reach a decision. I would therefore say that the United States draft resolution as it stands conforms to the requirements of wisdom and is one that would be acceptable.
(90) On the other hand, I have not been uninfluenced, I hope, by what other speakers have said in the debate. I believe that the general trend of the discussion has been in favour of a “get-together” to try to produce another form which would be acceptable to us. If that is the view, Mr. President, it may be expressed in a short while by the members of the Conference. I wish to say that the United Kingdom delegation will support it. But I would add that our delegation sincerely hopes, in the first place, that the members who will form the working party will come together with the de- sire to achieve a common mind, and not to obtain the ascendancy of their particular point of view. Secondly, I would like to say that I hope we shall have confidence in the small number of people who will compose this working party. Thirdly, I trust they will not make too great an inroad on our time, since time is valuable, and fourthly, whatever the outcome of their deliberations, let it be in in such general terms that it will in no way bind the Executive Board and the Director- General in the preparation of the paper to which we are looking forward for the Montevideo Conference. - 58 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s III-4
(91) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) - (Translation from the French) I believe that the brevity which our Welsh friends sometimes appreciate is indispensable at certain moments of our discussions. I therefore have the honour, Mr. President, to propose that you name without delay the members of the committee which will assume the responsibility of preparing a common draft, since I feel we are in agreement on its substance and that there are only certain small divergencies with regard to the text. My friend, Mr. Piaget, may still have his doubts, but I am convinced that we shall arrive at a draft which will obtain unanimous support. I am convinced, I repeat it, that we shall obtain a draft which will be voted unanimously. I beg you to secure this unanimity, for it is indispensable to the future of this Organization.
(92) The PRESIDENT - May I ask the Head of the United States delegation to say a word or two?
(93) Mr. SALOMON (United States of America) - Mr. President and fellow delegates, I will not take up much of your time. In spite of the nature of the discussion carried on by my many eminent predecessors on this rostrum, the United States delegation remain firm in their belief that the personnel policy of Unesco should be in accord with the personnel policy of the United Nations. Several speakers expressed their opposition to this principle. This runs counter, may I remind you, to Article 57 of the United Nations Charter and to the Agreement concluded between the United Nations and the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. May I take a moment to read part of Article XIII “Personnel Arrangements”: “The United Nations and the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization recognize that the eventual development of a single unified international civil service is desirable from the standpoint of effective adminis- trative co-ordination, and with this end in view agree to develop common personnel standards, methods and arrangements, etc. ”
(94) Beyond the legal interpretation, there should be a common staff policy offering the highest possible standards for international civil servants, who are the backbone of our international Orga- nization. These should represent common policies which, at the same time, will safeguard the basic rights of all international servants and assure our Organization of an efficient, competent staff devoted to the attainment of the objectives of our Organization, and subversion surely has no place in these objectives. May I say, fellow delegates, that we are willing to agree, and we consider it sound wisdom to have a drafting committee that will report back to this Extraordinary Session. We appreciate the efforts of the distinguished French delegate, Mr. Marie, and our French friends and others here to strive for common agreement on a matter that is very important to us, a matter that may well decide the future of Unesco and the great co-operative effort in which we all united so happily.
(95) Mr. TOSCANO (Italy) - (Translation from the French) The Italian delegation would like to draw the attention of this Conference to the problem involved in the position of Member States of Unesco which are not at the same time Members of the United Nations. These States are going to find themselves in a very special position. In the draft resolution put forward by the United States delegation, there is a reference to the personnel policy laid down and followed by the United Nations, but this policy has been laid down with no reference at all to States which, like Italy, are Members of Unesco but not of the United Nations.
(96) In consequence, and in order to safeguard the autonomy of Unesco, it seems to us desirable to arrive at decisions which will probably be identical with the decisions of the United Nations, but which will have to be taken every time in this Organization, where we are represented. The Italian delegation hopes the drafting committee will take into account the position of States which are not Members of the United Nations and of the necessity of Unesco reaching decisions which are in form autonomous, even if in the event they have to coincide with the decisions already adopted by the United Nations.
(97) Mr. PIAGET (Switzerland) - (Translation from the French) Mr. President, I should like to associate myself with the remarks of the Italian delegate, for my country is in the same position. I should like also to welcome the effort to reach unanimity to which various previous speakers have referred, but I should like to make it clear that there remains one point in suspense which no spea- ker has so far raised: that is the question whether the interim measures taken by the Board will become permanent till Montevideo, or whether the agreement we are now trying to reach will sus- pend by its existence the Board’s interim measures. It stands to reason that if the Board’s interim measures are to continue, my Government will not be able to concur in the thesis in question. My Government is definitely hostile to these interim measures voted by the Board which were to have remained in force up to the present Conference and it will not be able to support any motion which implied the continuation of such measures, which appear to us already to have violated what - 59 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   III-5 P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s I called the freedom and the dignity of the international institution.
(98) The PRESIDENT - I take it from the general discussion and the speeches made here and from what the Head of the United States delegation has said, that the general sense of the Conference is to set up a small drafting committee with the idea of arriving at what Sir Ben Bowen Thomas calls a “common mind” on the question raised in the draft resolution moved by the United States delega- tion. Am I to take it that that is the general sense ? If so, I propose the following small committee of seven: United States of America, France, India, United Kingdom, Switzerland, Italy, Brazil. The meeting rose at 6.15 p. m. FIFTH PLENARY MEETING Friday, 3 July 1953, at 10.45 a. m. President: Dr. SARVEPALLI RADHAKRISHNAN (India) C O N T E N T S Interpretation or amendment of Staff Regulations with respect to standards of integrity (continued) . . . . Application to Unesco of the Executive Order of the President of the United States of America, dated 9 January 1953. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Report of the Acting Director-General on Regulation
1.6 of the Staff Regulations. . . . . . . . . . . . Consideration of communications received from the Governments of Czechoslovakia and Hungary. . . . Discussion on the United States draft resolution on the withdrawal of Member States from the Organization Discussion on a Scientific and Cultural History of Man- kind. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Discussion on the draft resolution relating to the “Gandhian way” . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
72 INTERPRETATION OR AMENDMENT OF STAFF REGULATIONS WITH RESPECT TO STANDARDS OF INTEGRITY (contd)
(1) The PRESIDENT - Yesterday afternoon we appointed a Drafting Committee to submit to us a draft resolution on item 15, designed to secure the greatest possible measure of support. That Committee will now submit its recommendation to us. I call upon the delegate of the United King- dom.
(2) Mr. BARTLETT (United Kingdom) - Mr. President, fellow delegates,. the Committee which you appointed met last night from 9 p. m. to 2 a. m. Our discussion was full, frank, friendly, and in spite of the hour was thoroughly enjoyed by all those present. We were called a Drafting Com- mittee. We had before us the texts of two draft resolutions, one presented by the delegation of the United States of America and the other presented by the delegation of France, but we had to ex- change views about matters of substance before we could begin to discuss the drafts. In other words, we were something between a Drafting Committee and what one would call a Working Party. You will not wish me to impose upon you a summary of so long a discussion. The countries participating - 60 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.