V - l C H A P T E R  V CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE MEETING Wednesday, 1 July 1953, at 10.45 a.m. Chairman : Mr. P ARRA-PEREZ (Venezuela)
(1) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser), referring to document 2 XC/BUR/l, reminded the meeting of the Executive Board’s decision to recommend to the General Conference the re-election, at its Second Extraordinary Session, of the President, ten Vice-Presidents and Chairmen of Commissions and Committees who constituted the General Committee of the Seventh Session (or members of the delegations from which those Officers were chosen). He accordingly enquired whether the Creden- tials Committee was prepared to re-elect as Chairman the delegate of Venezuela.
(2) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) proposed that, in accordance with the Executive Board’s re- commendation, Mr. Parra-Perez, delegate of Venezuela, be elected Chairman of the Committee.
(3) That proposal was seconded by Mr. MUDALIAR (India) and Mr. Parra-Perez was elected Chairman by acclamation.
(4) The CHAIRMAN asked the Secretary to read the list of credentials communicated to the Director-General in conformity with Rule 22 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference. Those credentials were submitted by the following States : Austria, Belgium, Canada, China, Costa Rica, Cuba, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, France, German Federal Republic, Greece, Haiti, India, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Italy, Japan, Laos, Liberia, Libya, Mexico, Monaco, Norway, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Saudi-Arabia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Thai- land, Union of South Africa, United Kingdom, United States of America, Viet-Nam, Yugoslavia.
(5) The Committee agreed to regard those credentials as fully valid.
(6) At the CHAIRMAN’s request, the SECRETARY informed the meeting that credentials in the form of a letter, a telegram or some other document issued by a Minister other than the Minister for Foreign Affairs and not authorized by the latter, by the Head of a diplomatic mission, or by a senior official of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs were submitted by the representatives of the following States : Australia, Brazil, Cambodia, Colombia, Egypt, Honduras, Indonesia, Jordan, Korea, Lebanon, Luxembourg, Nicaragua, Netherlands, New Zealand, Pakistan, Syria, Turkey, Uruguay and Venezuela.
(7) The CHAIRMAN suggested that the Committee should propose to the General Conference that it accept the documents thus received as provisional credentials for the representatives of the above- mentioned countries, on the understanding that the delegations concerned would later submit regu- lar credentials and meanwhile take part in the work of the Second Extraordinary Session of the General Conference.
(8) The Committee approved that suggestion which it decided to transmit to the General Conference.
(9) At the CHAIRMAN’s request, the SECRETARY stated that to date the following countries had neither communicated credentials nor sent delegations to the Second Extraordinary Session of the General Conference : Afghanistan, Argentina, Bolivia, Ceylon, Czechoslovakia, Guatemala, Hungary, Nepal, Poland, and Union of Burma. - 113 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   V- l C r e d e n t i a l s  C o m m i t t e e
(10) On the proposal of Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom), it was decided that the Chairman of the Committee should communicate the list of those countries to the General Conference.
(11) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser), pointed out that if the delegations of some of those countries sub- mitted credentials within the next few days, the Credentials Committee would hardly have time to meet again to verify them. He therefore suggested that the Chairman of the Committee be autho- rized to examine them himself and to report immediately to the Plenary Conference, so that the delegations in question might be authorized to take part without delay in the work of the Extra- ordinary Session.
(12) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) fully appreciated the desirability of the procedure suggested by Mr. Saba, but thought it advisable for the Chairman of the Credentials Committee to consult with the President of the General Conference and obtain his approval before recommending that the General Conference admit any particular delegation to take part in its work.
(13) The Committee decided to invite its Chairman to apply the procedure just described by Mr. Cowell if further delegations submitted their credentials.
(14) The SECRETARY then informed the meeting that three non-Member States, Finland, Ireland and the Holy See and three international organizations, the United Nations, the International Civil Aviation Organization and the International Labour Organization had supplied the names of their observers. The meeting rose at 11. 30 a. m. - 114 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.