(44) Mr. MONTAGNIER felt that the fees of the architects and consultants, as given on page 9 of document 9 HQ/4, were too high. The official French tariffs varied between 3.5 and 5% of the total building estimate. It would be reasonable, in order to take the special nature of the work and the fact that the architects were of different nationalities into account, to adopt a percentage of 6%. The provision for the item could then be reduced to 96,000,000 francs.
(45) Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil) approved that suggestion, which would make it possible to allocate a larger sum for contracts with painters and sculptors.
(46) The Committee instructed the Acting Director-General to enter into negotiations on that point with the architects and at its next meeting to present a paragraph for inclusion in the draft resolution. X. 2 and X. 3
(47) After a short discussion, it was agreed to delete these paragraphs, as the Committee would have to revert to the question of estimates for equipment and material at its next meeting. X.4
(48) It was agreed to delete the words “except in so far as its explicit recommendation is neces- sary for expenditures from the Working Capital Fund”. x. 5 Approved without comment.
(49) The Committee agreed to hold its next meeting on 30 April. The meeting rose at 6. 0 p. m. TENTH SESSION MEETING Wednesday, 20 May 1953, at 10 a. m. Chairman : Mr. M ALIK (India) later : Mr. PARRA-PEREZ (Venezuela) REPORT ON THE NEGOTIATIONS CONDUCTED BY THE ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL WITH A VIEW TO OBTAINING DEFERMENT OF REPAYMENT OF THE LOAN GUARANTEED BY THE FRENCHGOVERNMENT
(1) Mr. VALEUR (France) drew the Committee’s attention to the second paragraph of the letter which he had sent to the Acting Director-General and explained that, though he was not in a pos- ition to give a formal reply on the point, he had gathered from his conversations with the Finance Ministry that the latter would be prepared to approach the Caisse des Dépots et Consignations and to take of its own accord the necessary steps for obtaining deferment of repayment, despite the supplementary charges it would then have to meet.
(2) The CHAIRMAN, summing up the remarks of the ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL and Mr. DAVIES (Australia) considered that the matter had been satisfactorily settled and thanked the French Government on behalf of the whole Committee. PROPOSALS OF THE ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL REGARDING THE FINANCING OF THE EQUIPMENT PLAN
(3) Mr. VALEUR (France) said that he could give a more formal reply on that point. The Finance Ministry had stated that it regarded equipment expenses as construction costs. It was unlikely that - 133 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   VI-10.1 H e a d q u a r t e r s  C o m m i t t e e Parliament would make any difficulties about granting an additional loan, requested for a project that had already been approved. However, it would be advisable to calculate the required amount as soon as possible.
(4) Mr. MONTAGNIER did not think it possible to have an estimate until the architects had drawn up detailed plans of the Headquarters building, which would be six or eight months after the Extra- ordinary Session of the General Conference. A detailed estimate could be submitted to the General Conference in Montevideo.
(5) The ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL thought that part of the estimates - for instance, the esti- mates for the telephone network - could be approved by the Extraordinary Session of the Conference. PROPOSALS OF THE ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL REGARDING THE MEASURES CONTEMPLATED FOR SETTING TO WORK ON THE BUILDING OF THE HEADQUARTERS (10 HQ/2)
(6) The ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained that the establishment, within the Secretariat, of an Office to exercise very close supervision of the work was justified for two main reasons: first, it was essential that expenses should not exceed the stipulated amount; and secondly, there was no general contractor in France who could take charge of the whole job. This plan would also give as many Member States as possible an opportunity of assisting and taking part in the construction - which would not be feasible if a general contractor were employed. He drew the Committee’s attention to paragraphs (b) and (c) on page 2 of document 10 HQ/2, and explained, in connexion with paragraph (c), the need for obtaining all possible guarantees and, in particular, for avoiding sub- contractors. A similar but more ambitious scheme had been adopted by the United Nations which had set up, for the construction of its headquarters, a fairly large office, including the services of an architect. Moreover, that procedure, though not strictly speaking the custom, had been widely adopted over the past seven or eight years by international organizations or governments having buildings erected in France. In reply to a question from Mr. MALIK (India) the ACTING DIRECTOR- GENERAL stated that this scheme had met with the approval of Mr. Zehrfuss and Mr. Breuer, who thought it would be the best way of ensuring full and regular collaboration with the Secretariat.
(7) Mr. VALEUR (France) considered the idea excellent but, in view of the technical problems of co-operation it entailed, wished to submit the scheme to experts in French ministries. Messrs. MALIK (India), THOMSON (United States of America) and DAVIES (Australia) agreed with Mr. Valeur. \
(8) The CHAIRMAN, who also approved the general idea of an Office, asked for information about the composition of the Office and the way it would be set up.
(9) The ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL emphasized that the Office would be essentially a prov- isional body, consisting of technicians on short-term appointments. In the early stages, while the detailed plans were being drawn up, it would consist only of a Project Director, a secretary and perhaps an assistant; various technicians would subsequently have to be appointed to supervise specific operations, but their total period of employment would not exceed the equivalent of a two- year contract for two or three persons. The Secretariat could submit detailed estimates to the Committee a few days before the Extraordinary Session of the Conference.
(10) The Acting Director-General sated that he had arranged for the estimates submitted by the architects at the last meeting to be checked and that the figure thus obtained was 2% lower than the one given in document 2 XC/3. Member States would doubtless do likewise and it was to be hoped that very accurate figures would be available for replying to questions raised at the Conference, and that the total estimate could be reduced still further.
(11) The CHAIRMAN enquired what the responsibilities of the Headquarters Committee would be, once the Office had taken over the technical control of the work.
(12) The ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL replied that the Headquarters Committee would serve in an advisory capacity, as defined in the resolution given on pages 2 and 3 of document 2 XC/3.
(13) Mr. MALIK (India) suggested that governments should be invited to recommend technicians with some experience in public works. - 134 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   H e a d q u a r t e r s  C o m m i t t e e VI-10.1
(14) Mr. THOMSON (United States of America) thought it might be possible to make use of techni- cians previously employed by the United Nations.
(15) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) also suggested that governments might be requested to release technicians on the staff ‘of their ministries or public works services.
(16) Mr. DAVIES (Australia) thought that a clause providing for the establishment of the proposed Office should be inserted in the resolution submitted to the Conference for approval.
(17) The ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out that paragraph 1 (4) of the resolution quoted in document 2 XC/3 gave him the necessary authority, but it was perhaps advisable to give fuller details. In reply to a question from Mr. CHEN Yuan (China) he explained that the contracts would be drawn up through the Headquarters Office in conjunction with the Contract Committee in the Secretariat, on which the Project Director would probably serve.
(18) He proposed that the Headquarters Committee should hold its next meeting on 29 June, two days before the opening of the Extraordinary Session. The Secretariat would have to receive comments from governments on such points as the estimates and the Headquarters Office at least ten days in advance, if they were to be taken into account in drawing up the documents for submission to the Conference.
(19) Document 10 HQ/2 was approved provisionally. CONSIDERATION OF THE APPEAL TO MEMBER STATES REGARDING GIFTS FOR THE PURPOSE OF ORNAMENTING THE PERMANENT HEADQUARTERS (10 HQ/3)
(20) The ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL reminded members that the matter had been under consi- deration for some time and that the example of the United Nations could be followed. It would un- doubtedly be advisable to set up a committee to ensure that gifts were in harmony with the archi- tecture of the building. To reduce costs, the committee could transact much of its work by cor- respondence and it could also consist of members residing in or near Paris.
(21) Mr. THOMSON (United States of America) wished to emphasize that one of the most important functions of the committee would be to provide directives for the decoration of the permanent Headquarters. The committee should therefore be convened at an early date and work in close co- operation with the architects.
(22) Mr. DAVIES (Australia) thought it might even be advisable to indicate in the document that the architects’ approval was required.
(23) Several members expressed misgivings about the results of the appeal, and after a general discussion, during which it was suggested that certain categories of gifts, such as furniture and supplies, should be ruled out, Mr. MONTAGNIER explained that the Secretariat had been guided by the example of the League of Nations and the United Nations. It seemed unnecessary to refuse outright certain categories of gifts, which might reduce the expenditure on equipment. As for the membership of the committee, the Secretariat had thought it might include, in addition to the archi- tects, a representative of the Headquarters Committee, a representative of the Panel of Five, and three persons selected on the recommendation of the International Association of Artists which had just been set up under Unesco’s auspices (e. g. two artists and one art critic).
(24) Mr. PATERNOTTE de la VAILLEE (Belgium) thought it necessary to include a person of re- cognized standing, such as the Director of Arts and Letters of the French Ministry of Education or the Director of Museums in France.
(25) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) was prepared to approve the document in principle, but he suggested placing paragraph 4 after paragraph 5 (a); it would then of course be necessary to re- number the paragraphs.
(26) Mr. DAVIES (Australia) was in favour of deleting paragraph 4.
(27) The ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL thought authorization would be necessary, as the estab- lishment of the Committee would involve some expenditure. - 135 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   VI-11.1 H e a d q u a r t e r s  C o m m i t t e e
(28) Document 10 HQ/3 was approved in principle, subject to more detailed consideration. REPORT ON
(10 HQ/4) THE PRESENTING OF THE PRELIMINARY PLAN TO FRENCH AUTHORITIES (Meeting of 21 April 1953)
(29) Mr. MONTAGNIER reported on behalf of Mr. Valeur that, after the meeting of 21 April, all the competent French services had received and were making a study of the preliminary plan. The French Government would forward the comments of those services before the opening of the Confer- ence.
(30) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) pointed out, in connexion with document 2 XC/Z, that the British experts were referring to Mr. Le Corbusier’s opinion of the Conference building, which seemed to them faulty in some respects. He drew special attention to the slope of the roof, the fact that the delegates’ offices had no natural light or windows, and the unsatisfactory acoustics of the room designed for plenary sessions, and wondered whether it would be possible to raise the height of the building. The distance separating it from the office building was a still more serious diffi- culty. In conclusion, Mr. Cowell thought it would probably be necessary to give further study to that part of the plan.
(31) After some discussion, Mr. MONTAGNIER said that in his opinion there was no question of modifying the general structure, but that further study was required - a view with which all the architects concurred.
(32) It was decided to adjourn discussion of that point, pending the receipt of further information. MISCELLEANEOUS QUESTIONS
(33) The minutes of the last session were approved, subject to any corrections that had already been or might be received. The meeting rose at 1.30 p. m. ELEVENTH SESSION FIRST MEETING Monday, 29 June 1953, at 10 a. m. Chairman: Mr. PARRA-PEREZ (Venezuela)
(1) Opening the session, the CHAIRMAN extended a welcome to Miss d’Olne, replacing Mr. Pater- notte de la Vaillee and to Mr. Pompei, replacing Mr. de Clementi. ITEM 1 - ADOPTION OF THE PROVISIONAL AGENDA (11 HQ/l)
(2) At the CHAIRMAN’s suggestion, it was agreed to start with the items of particular interest to the architects, namely, items 6, 5. 2 and 4.
(3) Subject to the above change of order, the agenda was adopted. ITEM 2 - APPROVAL OF THE SUMMARY RECORD OF THE TENTH SESSION (10 HQ/SR)
(4) The Summary Record of the Tenth Session was approved. - 136 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.