(35) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) asked if the architects could supply estimates for the cost of the Executive Board building as now planned, so that the Committee and the Conference could dis- cuss the retention or suppression of the Board building with the relevant estimates.
(36) Mr. BREUER had not brought the figures with him, but pointed out that the cost could be as- certained by deducting the cost of the Secretariat and Conference buildings from that of those buildings plus the Executive Board building in the latest plan. He would produce the figures for the afternoon meeting.
(37) Mr. DAVIES (Australia) suggested that the cost of the additional building for the Executive Board should be annexed to the Committee’s report. Agreed, ITEM 3 - ESTIMATES OF THE COST OF EQUIPMENT AND MATERIAL (9 HQ/2)
(38) The ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out that an immediate decision had to be taken on the sum of $430,000 for the telephone system, as the latter would have to be installed at the same time as the building was being constructed.
(39) In reply to a question from Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom), Mr. MONTAGNIER stated that the telephone system would be the same as that at present used in Unesco House. The inventory value of the latter was $400, 000.
(40) Mr. BREUER explained that the architects had had great difficulty in estimating the cost of furnishings, etc., as they were dependent upon many different factors and were liable to vary by
50%. They had been obliged to take the average of furnishing costs for other buildings which they had planned, and believed that they could furnish Unesco’s building for the sum of $400, 000, ex- cluding mobile furnishing for the offices of the Secretariat and delegates.
(41) After thanking the architects for their assistance in the discussions, the CHAIRMAN adjourned the meeting until the afternoon. The meeting rose at 1. 15 p.m. SECOND MEETING Thursday, 2 April 1953, at 3 p. m. Chairman: Mr. MALIK (India) ITEM 3 - ESTIMATES OF THE COST OF EQUIPMENT AND MATERIAL (9 HQ/2) (continued)
(1) The CHAIRMAN recalled that the Committee had not had time, at its morning meeting, to con- sider the question of financing purchases of equipment and material, and he asked the Acting Dir- ector-Genera1 to present the Secretariat’s views.
(2) The ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that the Secretariat had contemplated once again seeking the assistance of the French Government. Since part of the material would have to be re- placed after a certain number of years owing to normal wear and tear, it would not be possible to consider such a long-term loan as that already granted by France to cover the cost of building. A loan over a period of fifteen years could, for example, be envisaged. On the other hand, the Act- ing Director-General emphasized that about half of the material included in the architects’ estimate, - 128 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   H e a d q u a r t e r s  C o m m i t t e e VI-9.2 i. e. the telephone and kitchen equipment, would have to be ordered fairly quickly. A solution must therefore be found without delay for that part of the expenditure outlined in the estimate.
(3) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) asked how the United Nations had settled that question.
(4) The ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL believed that the cost of that equipment had been charged to the building budget.
(5) Mr. MONTAGNIER added that part of the furnishings had been supplied by gifts from Member States: thus, the Scandinavian countries had provided the wood for the committee rooms; France had offered paintings. So far as Unesco was concerned, Mr. Montagnier explained that three pos- sibilities had been considered: (1) the purchase of equipment and material could be charged to the normal budget, although that would necessitate an increase of approximately 10% in the contributions of Member States for the year in question, 1955 for example; (2) a loan could be obtained from a bank or group of banks; in that case Unesco would have to pay interest; (3) the most advantageous method would be that of an interest-free loan granted by a government; in that case the reimburse- ment of a million-dollar loan over fifteen years would represent an additional annual expenditure for Unesco of approximately $66,000. The possibility of using the Working Capital Fund had been ruled out. The Comptroller did not believe it possible to spare more than $100,000 to $150,000, repayable within a very short period, from the Working Capital Fund. The cost of telephone equip- ment alone far exceeded the resources of the Working Capital Fund.
(6) Mr. BOUCHARD (France) felt that the Committee was faced by a very important and extremely delicate problem, especially as Mr. Breuer had emphasized the very approximate nature of the estimates submitted by the architects. For the moment he could make no statement on behalf of the French Government. Speaking as an individual, he felt they had to distinguish between two categories of expenditure: (1) essential equipment (telephone, kitchens); (2) material which it was more or less possible to do without, and part of which might be donated by Member States, following the example set during the construction of the United Nations Headquarters. Mr. Bou- chard emphasized that the question of financing the cost of such equipment had not thus far been raised, and that, in resolution 29.3, the General Conference had merely requested an estimate.
(7) ,Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil) thought that, in view of the heavy burden which the French Govern- ment had already agreed to assume, it would be advisable to approach other Member States with a view to obtaining a second interest-free loan.
(8) The ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed to the difficulty of negotiating with a few Member States only. Moreover, an appeal should be made for contributions in kind towards the furnishing of the new Unesco Headquarters. The Acting Director-General added that the total amount of the French Government’s loan of $6,000,000 would not be required immediately. The Extraordinary Session of the General Conference could authorize the Secretariat to draw on that loan provision- ally for initial expenditure on equipment, leaving a final solution of this problem to the Montevideo Conference. The essential point was to make immediate provision for an additional expenditure of about $1, 000, 000 for equipment and material, over and above the $6,000,000 already provided for building. The first orders for equipment would have to be placed as soon as construction began, but the Secretariat would then require only about $400,000. The last payments would not have to be made before 1956 and, in that case, the necessary decisions could be taken by the 1954 Session of the General Conference.
(9) Mr. BOUCHARD (France) felt it was important that all factors of the problem, together with possible solutions, should be presented to the Extraordinary Session of the Conference. The actual total cost of equipment and material would probably not be known before the Montevideo General Conference.
(10) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) agreed with Mr. Bouchard. Mr. Carneiro’s suggestion had the merit of envisaging a fair distribution of the financial burden, but it had to be remembered that it would be rather difficult to persuade certain administrations and parliaments to include in their national budgets provision for a relatively large and interest-free loan. It might be possible to consider adding to the Working Capital Fund a special building fund, established on a basis pro- portionate to the contributions of Member States.
(11) The CHAIRMAN suggested that the Committee instruct the Acting Director-General to open - 129 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   VI-9.2 H e a d q u a r t e r s  C o m m i t t e e discussions with the French authorities and to report on the result at the meeting of the Committee to be held before the Extraordinary Session of the General Conference. Approved,
(12) Mr. THOMSON (United States of America) proposed that the Secretariat be requested to pre- sent to the Extraordinary Session of the General Conference a document on the possibility of ap- pealing to Member States to make donations for the furnishing and interior decoration of Unesco’s Headquarters. Approved.
(13) The ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out that the Secretariat had already considered setting up a committee composed of the architects, the International Panel of Five Architects, and other experts, to advise Unesco on that subject. lTEM4- REPAYMENTS SCHEDULE OF THE LOANGUARANTEED BY THE FRENCH GOVERNMENT (9 HQ/3)
(14) Mr. MONTAGNIER gave details of the four repayment schedules outlined in document
9 HQ/3. Two basic methods had been studied: according to the first, repayment would be made On an increasing annual scale; according to the second, the annual instalments would remain the same. Furthermore, in each case it had been anticipated that repayment could begin either in
1954 or in 1956. Schedule No. 3, which provided both for repayment as from 1956 and for annual instalments of approximately $200,000, seemed to be the most favourable for Unesco. Repayment could then be deferred until the Organization no longer had ‘to make budgetary provision for the rent of its present premises; in addition, the adoption of a fixed annual instalment would be the easiest way from a budgetary point of view.
(15) Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil) felt that the third proposed schedule should be adopted. He asked what additional financial burden that rate of repayment would throw upon the budget of Unesco.
(16) Mr. MONTAGNIER replied that Unesco’s rent was approximately $66,000 per annum; re- payment of the French Government’s loan would, therefore, represent an addition of about $130.000 per annum.
(17) Mr. DAVIES (Australia) thought it would be better to make the first repayment against the
(18) Mr. MONTAGNIER said that the Caisse des Dépôts et Consignations did not, in principle, authorize deferred repayments. Schedule No. 1 conformed to the normal practice of that body. Unesco could, as an exceptional measure, obtain deferment until 1956, but it would probably be difficult to secure postponement of the first repayment until 1957.
(19) Mr. DAVIES (Australia) pointed out that the 1955-1956 Budget would already have to include provision for the rental of the present premises until about the middle of 1956, as well as funds to meet the cost of removal. In order not to overburden that budget, it would be preferable not to begin repayment of the loan until 1957.
(20) The ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL emphasized that the French authorities had shown great generosity in accepting the possibility of a two-year period; it appeared difficult to request an extension of that period, especially if discussions were to be opened with regard to the possibility of a further loan.
(21) Mr. DAVIES (Australia) was anxious to pay tribute to the generosity of the French authorities, but felt it would be advisable to explain to them the special difficulties which Unesco had to face.
(22) The Committee agreed to recommend the adoption of Schedule No. 3, on the understanding that the Acting Director-General would consult the French authorities as to the possibility of post- poning payment of the first annual instalment until 1957. - 130 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   H e a d q u a r t e r s  C o m m i t t e e ITEM 6 - DRAFT REPORT OF THE HEADQUARTERS COMMITTEE (9 HQ/5) VI-S, 2
(23) Mr. DAVIES (Australia) said he had merely drafted a very rough report which would have to be amended and completed, to include the decisions resulting from the latest discussions of the Committee. Paragraphs 1 and 2 Approved without comment. Paragraph 3
(24) Mr. DAVIES (Australia) felt that, in view of the agreement reached in the Committee, it would be advisable to delete the last part of this paragraph, from “Certain members deplored that . . . . . . ”
(25) Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil) considered it should be mentioned in the report that additional buildings could be erected later to meet the future needs of permanent delegations and international organizations having relations with Unesco. It was important to emphasize that, in accepting the present project, the Committee had been far from overestimating requirements.
(26) The ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL approved that suggestion.
(27) On the proposal of Mr. DAVIES (Australia) it was agreed to delete the third, fourth and fifth sentences of paragraph 3, and to amend the last sentence in accordance with Mr. Carneiro’s suggestions. Paragraph 4
(28) Mr. DAVIES (Australia) thought that the opinion expressed by the architects at the end of document 8 HQ/5 should be included in paragraph 4. Approved. Paragraph 5
(29) Mr. DAVIES (Australia) agreed to a suggestion by Mr. Carneiro and Mr. Thomson that em- phasis should be laid in this paragraph on the example of perfect international co-operation shown by the architects. He further suggested that the minutes of the official meeting of the French authorities should be added to the documents to be submitted to the Extraordinary Session of the General Conference. Approved. Paragraph 6 Approved without comment. Paragraph 7
(30) On the proposal of Mr. DAVIES (Australia), it was agreed to delete the last sentence, since it no longer corresponded to the present position, and to include particulars of the Committee’s latest discussions. Paragraph 8
(31) Mr. MONTAGNIER suggested that the Committee’s preference for the system of repayment by fixed annual instalments should be mentioned in this paragraph.
(32) This suggestion was approved, on the understanding that the date of payment of the first instalment would be dealt with in the supplementary report to be prepared by the Committee at its next meeting. - 131 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   VI-9. 2 H e a d q u a r t e r s  C o m m i t t e e Paragraph 9 Approved without comment. Paragraph 10
(33) Mr. DAVIES (Australia) suggested pointing out, in an additional paragraph, that the Commit- tee had requested the Director-General to submit a document outlining the organization of the building work, the administrative problems involved, and the procedure to be followed for the purchase of equipment and material.
(34) Mr. MONTAGNIER specified that these rules should also cover the submission of tenders for the different categories of work.
(35) These suggestions were approved. Paragraph 11
(36) Mr. THOMSON (United States of America) suggested inserting in the preamble the text of paragraphs (a) and (b) of the preamble to resolution 29 adopted at the Seventh Session of the General Conference, as well as the paragraph relating to the privileges and immunities granted to Unesco, notably in the matter of taxation.
(37) Miss THORNEYCROFT emphasized that that suggestion would require, in addition, repro- duction of the text of the annex referred to in the paragraph (a) mentioned by Mr. Thomson.
(38) Mr. MONTAGNIER added that paragraph (b) mentioned a loan of 2, 025,000, 000 francs, whereas the sum given in the “Journal Officiel” was 2,100,000,000 francs.
(39) Mr. BOUCHARD (France) considered it useless to quote verbatim texts which referred to a situation at least partly outdated. At the Extraordinary Session of the General Conference the French Government could make a definite offer in a letter which could be annexed to the final text of the resolution.
(40) Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil) proposed the following wording: “Recalling the generous offer by the French Government of a site (see Annex) and of a loan of 2, 100,000,000 francs repayable over thirty years”. Approved.
(41) Mr. MONTAGNIER stressed the importance of the fiscal immunities granted to Unesco and agreed with Mr. Thomson that it would be advisable to refer to that part of the preamble of reso- lution 29 which mentioned those immunities. Approved. X. 1 (1) Approved. x. 1 (2)
(42) On the proposal of Mr. MONTAGNIER, the last line was amended as follows: ” . . . . . . and execute any necessary contracts relating thereto”. Approved. X. 1 (3) Approved. x. 1 (4)
(43) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) seconded by Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil), proposed that the penultimate line should read: “. . . . . . such services as he may require”. Approved. - 132 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   H e a d q u a r t e r s  C o m m i t t e e
(44) Mr. MONTAGNIER felt that the fees of the architects and consultants, as given on page 9 of document 9 HQ/4, were too high. The official French tariffs varied between 3.5 and 5% of the total building estimate. It would be reasonable, in order to take the special nature of the work and the fact that the architects were of different nationalities into account, to adopt a percentage of 6%. The provision for the item could then be reduced to 96,000,000 francs.
(45) Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil) approved that suggestion, which would make it possible to allocate a larger sum for contracts with painters and sculptors.
(46) The Committee instructed the Acting Director-General to enter into negotiations on that point with the architects and at its next meeting to present a paragraph for inclusion in the draft resolution. X. 2 and X. 3
(47) After a short discussion, it was agreed to delete these paragraphs, as the Committee would have to revert to the question of estimates for equipment and material at its next meeting. X.4
(48) It was agreed to delete the words “except in so far as its explicit recommendation is neces- sary for expenditures from the Working Capital Fund”. x. 5 Approved without comment.
(49) The Committee agreed to hold its next meeting on 30 April. The meeting rose at 6. 0 p. m. TENTH SESSION MEETING Wednesday, 20 May 1953, at 10 a. m. Chairman : Mr. M ALIK (India) later : Mr. PARRA-PEREZ (Venezuela) REPORT ON THE NEGOTIATIONS CONDUCTED BY THE ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL WITH A VIEW TO OBTAINING DEFERMENT OF REPAYMENT OF THE LOAN GUARANTEED BY THE FRENCHGOVERNMENT
(1) Mr. VALEUR (France) drew the Committee’s attention to the second paragraph of the letter which he had sent to the Acting Director-General and explained that, though he was not in a pos- ition to give a formal reply on the point, he had gathered from his conversations with the Finance Ministry that the latter would be prepared to approach the Caisse des Dépots et Consignations and to take of its own accord the necessary steps for obtaining deferment of repayment, despite the supplementary charges it would then have to meet.
(2) The CHAIRMAN, summing up the remarks of the ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL and Mr. DAVIES (Australia) considered that the matter had been satisfactorily settled and thanked the French Government on behalf of the whole Committee. PROPOSALS OF THE ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL REGARDING THE FINANCING OF THE EQUIPMENT PLAN
(3) Mr. VALEUR (France) said that he could give a more formal reply on that point. The Finance Ministry had stated that it regarded equipment expenses as construction costs. It was unlikely that - 133 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.