III-2 P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s Civil Aviation Organisation and the International Labour Organization. The Committee recommends to the General Conference that these observers be admitted. The various proposals were adopted. The meeting rose at 12.10 p. m. SECOND PLENARY MEETING Thursday, 2 July 1953, at 10.55 a. m. President: Dr. SARVEPALLI RADHAKRISHNAN (India) C O N T E N T S Recommendations of the General Committee regarding the right of certain delegations to vote. . . . . . . 34 Report of the Acting Director-General on the activities of the organization from November 1952 to April 1953 34 Discussion on the report of the ActingDirector-General 37 Appointment of the Director-General on the proposal of the Executive Board. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41 RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE GENERAL COMMITTEE REGARDING THE RIGHT OF CERTAIN DELEGATIONS TO VOTE
(1) The PRESIDENT - The General Committee studied the requests received from the delegations of China, Iran and Uruguay, and decided to recommend to the General Conference to grant the right to vote at the present Extraordinary Session to these three Member States, in accordance with the provisions of Article IV 8(c) of the Constitution. The General Committee recommends, moreover, that the same facilities be granted for these Extraordinary Sessions to any other Member State that presents its credentials in due form, that has fully paid its contributions up to 1950 inclusive, and that submits a request to be allowed to vote to the President of the Conference. The recommenda- tions are approved. REPORT OF THE ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL ON THE ACTIVITIES OF THE ORGANIZATION FROM NOVEMBER 1952 TO APRIL 1953
(2) The PRESIDENT - We now proceed to the discussion of the report of the Acting Director-Gene- ral. The Chairman of the Executive Board will present the report.
(3) Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) (Chairman of the Executive Board) - Mr. President, fellow delegates, under Article V. 9 of the Constitution the Chairman of the Executive Board presents the report of the Director-General with or without comments to every ordinary session of the General Conference. Nothing is said about extraordinary sessions. Now, the members of the Executive Board felt that this was an occassion in which the Acting Director-General had carried on for a con- siderable period and that it was right that he should give a report of his work to this Extraordinary Session. It is a report of the work carried out since Dr. Torres Bodet reported to the Seventh Ses- sion up to October 1952. and the report, as you see, carries us up to the end of April 1953. Norm- ally this report involves a long discussion, because it introduces the new programme of thefollowing - 34 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s III-2 two years. In this case the programme for this year and next year was decided at the last session, and the Executive Board therefore decided that I should present this report without comments and suggest that the discussion of it should not be unduly prolonged. The Board, however, commends this report to your notice as it contains accounts of many important activities and is, for the past four months, a record of the achievements of the Organization under the Acting Director-General of which he can be proud. With these few words I would present the report to you.
(4) The PRESIDENT - I now call on the Acting Director-General.
(5) The ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL - Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the report submit- ted to you does not call for a long speech of introduction. You will, however, perhaps allow me to offer a few remarks that could not be included in a simple, impersonal record of activities.
(6) In my capacity as a temporary executive, I could not contemplate anything beyond preserving the “status quo”, and that has, indeed, been my main purpose. If I may be allowed to borrow a famous device, I should say that during these months, in which difficulties have not been lacking, my domi- nating thought might be summed up in the words “Je maintiendrai - I will maintain”. To maintain the efficiency and the dignity of Unesco at the level to which they were brought by the efforts of that incomparable administrator, Mr. Torres Bodet, to whom I should like to pay here my tribute of respect and loyalty: I wanted no more than that.
(7) As regards efficiency, the detailed report submitted to you records results of many kinds which you will no doubt want to consider. I shall cite only a few examples.
(8) Aid to intellectual co-operation, both as regards collaboration between specialists and the org- anization of documentation, has continued to develop most satisfactorily in the fields of science and culture. There is no question but that this activity represents a permanent function of Unesco and enables it to render very useful service.
(9) The appeal for fundamental education, so nobly voiced by my predecessor, has given rise to increasingly important efforts in Member States. The idea is gaining ground, and nothing now will be able to stop it. Unesco is doing its best to help Member States in this enormous task. After the Centre established two years ago at Patzcuaro in Mexico, for Latin America, a second Training Centre was opened in January at Sirs-el-Layyan, Egypt, for the Arab States, and concurrently various experiments are being successfully continued in different parts of the world with stimulating results: for instance, at Marbial in Haiti, at Minneryia in Ceylon, at Dujeilah in Iraq, and at Klay in Liberia.
(10) At the Conference held in Bombay last December and attended by delegates from fifteen States of South and South-East Asia and the Pacific, Unesco made an effort to give regional significance to the campaign for the progressive application of the principle of free and compulsory schooling launched in 1951 at the Fourteenth Conference on Public Education. The Bombay Conference fully realized its double aim, which was confined to a survey of the problems and a statement of proposed solutions. Now words must be translated into acts if high hopes are not once more to be bitterly disappointed. This places upon international solidarity a definite responsibility, which the General Conference should recognize here and now.
(11) We have also been active in assisting refugees from Palestine in the Middle East, and our aid has been more substantial than before, thanks to the considerably larger funds which, at our sug- gestion, the United Nations Relief Rehabilitation Administration has devoted to education.
(12) In a field that has always occupied an important place in the programme of the Organization for the application of the Social Sciences to the solution of contemporary problems, special mention should be made of the seminar which the Indian National Commission organized at Delhi in January on the contribution of the ideas and methods of Gandhi to the elimination of national and international tensions. This seminar aroused very wide interest, and the General Conference will certainly study the report that the Indian delegation has submitted on this subject.
(13) Finally, to end this rapid review, I am pleased to be able to inform you that, after eighteen months of negotiation and careful study, in which the Secretariat has been closely associated, the European Council for Nuclear Research, set up in December 1951 under the auspices of Unesco, and composed of twelve European Member States of the Organization, adopted yesterday, at the last meeting it held in Unesco House, a Convention for the establishment of a permanent regional body. This organization, whose headquarters will be at Geneva, will have at its disposal for the carrying out of an international programme of research, a laboratory equipped with more powerful apparatus than has existed till now. This enterprising effort of regional co-operation is financed by a budget equivalent to $28, 000, 000, which the States taking part in it undertake to pay in seven years. This is an enterprise without precedent in European history and it may have a decisive influence on scientific thought in that old continent. I salute it, both as a promise and as an example, and a welcome event in Unesco’s work for peace and progress. - 35 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   III-2 P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s
(14) In calling your attention to these happy results, I do not want to conceal from you the less satisfactory items in the seven months’ balance-sheet. Some of our difficulties are political, like those still hindering the realization of certain plans of a regional character. But the main obstacle to the full effectiveness of our efforts remains the meagreness of our resources. Despite the most rigorous measures of economy, it is already clear that the budget is adequate to ensure only a mi- nimum of activities - considerably less than we are technically able to undertake, and certainly less than the machinery of the Organization and its responsibilities warrant. In many cases, for instance as regards our research programme for the Arid Zone, our Science Co-operation Offices or our action through Press, Radio, Cinema, Television, and by means of Exhibitions, a small increase in the funds available would produce much better results. In a general sense, it seems to me that budgetary restrictions have reached the limit at which the return, that is to say, the proportion between the irreducible expenditure and useful results, is perilously diminished.
(15) The hopes entertained by the General Conference of acquiring supplementary resources outside the budget have not materialized. The Technical Assistance Fund, far from increasing, has been stabilized at a level which has already necessitated a severe limitation of our activities. Unesco’s share in this Fund, which stood at $3, 697,000 in 1952, was fixed at $3, 231,000 for 1953, whereas, at the last session of the General Conference a figure of $5,000,000 was mentioned. This reduc- tion has obliged us not only to forgo the consideration of many new requests, but has also put an end prematurely to certain current projects. There again, the services of the Organization fail, through lack of funds, to answer the expectations of Member States.
(16) As regards private voluntary contributions for the financing of certain activities, such as fundamental education training centres and Unesco’s Institutes in Germany, all our efforts to secure assistance from foundations likely to be interested have so far been fruitless. In this connexion, I should like to draw your attention to document 2 XC/5 Addendum, containing a letter recently ad- dressed to me by the Chairman of the International Commission for a Scientific and Cultural History of Mankind, concerning the very difficult situation in which the Commission is now placed because it can no longer rely on the hope of external financial assistance.
(17) I sincerely hope that the financial restrictions at present impeding the development of the Organization are only temporary, and that at your next session the international situation will have improved sufficiently to enable Member States to grant Unesco resources more in keeping with its capacities.
(18) Here, I think, much will depend upon the Secretariat, whose ability and devotion are, in present circumstances, particularly important.
(19) I am glad to be able to give you on this point all the assurances you could wish. A period under a temporary Director is a severe test for a young administration. I can assure you that the Secre- tariat has come through this test in a way that does it credit. Whether it is a question of my senior colleagues - an excellent team formed by my predecessor, which has kept together and not lost faith - or of the Secretariat as a whole, all, from the humblest employee to the highest official, have continued to serve the Organization with a loyalty and devotion to which I pay tribute. I should like to express to each one of them my thanks and my esteem.
(20) The importance of the part played by the Secretariat will no doubt justifiy, in your view, the special attention I have paid throughout these last months to the problems raised by the application to American citizens employed or about to be employed by Unesco, of the Executive Order of the President of the United States of America, dated 9 January and revised 2 June 1953.
(21) I shall not dwell upon these problems here, since I have given you my views in document 2 XC/7 already before you. I wish now only to emphasize one or two points made therein, and I quote: “The attitude taken by the Acting Director-General has been essentially determined by his concern to maintain the two basic principles according to which the Secretariat is actually organized, and which are set out in Article VI, paragraph 5 of the Constitution and in Regulations 1.1 and 1.4 of the Staff Regulations. Article VI, paragraph 5 of the Constitution secures the international and independent character of the staff in discharging their functions. It provides that: ‘The responsibilities of the Director-General and of the staff shall be exclusively international in character. In the discharge of their duties they shall not seek or receive instructions from any government or from any authority external to the Organization. They shall refrain from anyaction which might prejudice their position as international officials. Each State Member of the Orga- nization undertakes to respect the international character of the responsibilities of the Director- General and the staff, and not to seek to influence them in the discharge of their duties. I”
(22) On certain aspects of the matter, the existing Staff Regulations provide clear guidance.
(23) Staff Regulation 1.4 states that members of the Secretariat - and here I quote - ” . . . should not be expected to give up religious or political convictions or national sentiment . . . ” It therefore follows that staff members’ political and regilious convictions and national sentiments are not, - 36 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s III- 2 “per se”, matters with which the Organization is concerned.
(24) Staff Regulation 1.4 also provides that “members of the Secretariat shall conduct themselves at all times in a manner consonant with the good repute and high purposes of the Organization and their status as international civil servants. They shall not engage in any activity that is incompati- ble with the proper discharge of their duties. They shall avoid any action and in particular any kind of public pronouncement which would adversely reflect on their position as international officials.. . they shall at all times exercise the reserve and tact incumbent upon them by reason of their inter- national responsibilities. ”
(25) Staff Regulation 1.1 provides that members of the Secretariat, by accepting appointment, un- dertake to discharge their functions and to regulate their conduct with the interests of the Organiza- tion only in view.
(26) These Staff Regulations make it clear that staff members must scrupulously avoid any active political engagement. The Organization is not concerned with the orientation of staff members’ political activities: staff members are liable to disciplinary action for any active participation in a political undertaking, no matter of what kind.
(27) Lastly, there is another question about which I should like to say a few words before I conclude, because it is an important question and one to which I have given my special attention. I mean the building of the new permanent headquarters. Unesco has had its headquarters in Paris for seven years now, and here it found from the beginning the right atmosphere for its work. But it is natural and necessary that the Organization should have, as soon as possible, a house to call its own. The problem is twofold: first, the building must be adequate to the requirements of the universal mis- sion of Unesco; and secondly, it must harmonize with the architecture and with the historical setting of a city that is itself a work of art, with its own atmosphere. In short, Unesco must feel at home in Paris, and Paris for its part must be able to welcome Unesco “comme quelqu’un de la famille”, as one of the family.
(28) I am convinced that the new plans submitted to you by the Headquarters Committee, plans that have been drawn up by eminent architects who have had the benefit of the best possible advice, in- geniously satisfy this double requirement, within reasonable budgetary limits. The very generous conditions agreed by the French Government, both as regards the ground lease and the granting of a long-term, interest-free loan for the building and the equipment should enable the plans to be ac- cepted without hesitation, so that work can begin in January 1954.
(29) The attentive studies and complicated negotiations attendant upon this scheme have given me a fresh opportunity of appreciating the active interest the French authorities continue to take inunes- co. The relations of an international organization with the host country are of particular importance, both in respect of the Organization’s practical working conditions and the psychological atmosphere that surrounds it. Unesco’s relations with France are marked by the most cordial sympathy. It gives me great satisfaction to record this, and I should like to express my most sincere thanks to my French friends for their constant consideration and for the support they have always given me in the fulfilment of my task.
(30) Such, it seems to me, are the salient facts of the period that has elapsed since you did me the honour of appointing me Acting Director-General. I have endeavoured to carry out conscientiously and to the best of my ability the duties of a post I did not seek. I accepted the post out of respect for your wishes and from loyalty to the Organization. In the same spirit I restore it today to your keeping. DISCUSSION ON THE REPORT OF THE ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL
(31) The PRESIDENT - The Chairman of the Executive Board already said that a full discussion usually takes place in normal sessions, but we have read the report and heard the remarks. Any observations delegates wish to make are quite welcome.
(32) Mr. PIAGET (Switzerland) - (Translation from the French) Mr. President, I shall be very brief. The Swiss delegation is, however, anxious to intervene in the discussion because it considers that Unesco owes a deep debt of gratitude to Mr. Taylor. The Acting Director-General began his work at a very difficult moment; the unexpected departure of a distinguished chief produced for a time at Unesco House a certain demoralization in the Secretariat, and all Unesco’s friends outside were extremely disturbed. Mr. Taylor also encountered additional difficulties in the discharge of his duties; the question of the status of the officials must have given rise to real problems of con- science. The Board took a decision on the subject which seems to me to be grave and which is a gloomy page in its history: it was a decision which, to say the least, has left a sense of uneasiness in our minds. The Acting Director-General surmounted all these difficulties with courage and ef- ficiency. At first, he spoke little and at Board meetings seemed to take no active initiative; but - 37 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   III-2 P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s we very soon learnt that this was not really the case and that he was playing a constructive part in working out the programme. He evinced keen loyalty to the Secretariat and to the Board; in a word he did not behave like an Acting but like a permanent Director-General. He has maintained the Torres Bodet tradition, and the report which he has presented to us is truly impressive in view of the short period it covers. We want to thank him and congratulate him most warmly; the whole Secretariat has lived up to its traditions and deserves our unanimous gratitude; the Acting Director- General has done his work like a real Director.
(33) The PRESIDENT - I call upon Mr. Verniers, Belgium.
(34) Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium) - (Translation from the French) Mr. President, in coming to Paris I had no intention of speaking on the report which the Deputy Director-General was to present, but when I heard my friend Mr. Piaget praising the Acting Director-General, I thought I should also express my views. I feel it a duty, a duty dictated by conscience, to say, first, how much the re- signation of the Director-General, Mr. Torres Bodet, has affected all those who, like myself, have faith in Unesco. My thoughts turn at this moment to the Director-General who resigned. I propose - and I hope you will pardon this personal confidence - to write to him this very day to tell him that, in the difficult circumstances in which his friends are placed, they do not forget him.
(35) May I now turn to you, Mr. Acting Director-General, and associate myself most cordially and affectionately with the praise addressed to you by my friend Mr. Piaget? You have borne yourself as a real Director-General during this exceptionally difficult period, and you have acted energetic- ally and loyally in regard to the institution and the members of its staff. I also wish, as Mr. Piaget and you yourself have done, to congratulate on behalf of the Belgian Delegation all the members of the Secretariat, for they too have behaved as good servants of Unesco. Without their ready, loyal collaboration day in day out, you would have been unable to steer the ship as you have done.
(36) Among the activities which do credit to Unesco and which make me believe, despite the tem- porary difficulties which confront it, that it has a great destiny, I shall mention, as you yourself have done, the accomplishment of two practical tasks which are striking testimony to the spirit of international collaboration - the setting up of the International Computation Centre and the signature, due to take place almost immediately at the Quai d’Orsay, of the Convention establishing a European Nuclear Research Laboratory, destined solely to serve the cause of science and peace.
(37) I should like to take this opportunity of giving the delegations here a word of advice. You will observe that it is directly connected with the item on the agenda that we have now reached. As those of you who have been here before will remember, I have always been a warm supporter of one of Unesco’s methods of work. Formerly, known as the seminar, it is now called in French the “stage d’études”. I shall begin to entertain some doubts regarding the efficacy of these semi- nars unless the governments take more account of the value of Unesco’s ideals on the higher plane. By that I mean it is not sufficient for governments to send representatives to seminars: worthy representatives must be chosen. A government must not, for considerations of convenience or eco- nomy, select for a course some holder of a fellowship who happens to be travelling or staying in the country where the seminar is held, nor call upon the cultural attache or some other member of the Diplomatic Corps in the host country. I have the greatest respect for diplomats, but they will agree with me that they are not qualified in every technical subject dealt with at international seminars. I have received documentation from the Secretariat regarding work I shall have to do in the near future on an expert committee which will deal with the principles and methods relating to the pro- motion of international citizenship. It comprises reports prepared at the course held last year at Woudschoten (Netherlands). I do not want to disparage the work done there or to indulge in a personal attack on any particular participant. I must, however, tell you with my habitual frankness that the reports will not be specially brilliant. I may say they are rather poor in quality. On making enquiries I found that, as the result of a custom which I strongly deprecate, a very consi- derable proportion of the persons attending the course were completely unqualified. It is not a mat- ter of coming to spend five or six weeks in a foreign country and making pleasant trips and excur- sions while there. Certainly one always benefits by meeting foreigners, and travel educates the young. But seminars organized at great cost by Unesco should undoubtedly produce other results as well. I therefore take this opportunity of calling upon all those present to make an urgent appeal to their Governments to select qualified representatives as occasion arises, so that the results of the seminars may be as fruitful, as positive and as constructive as possible.
(38) I will end as I began by expressing my thanks and also my confidence in the future of Unesco. The easing in the world political situation to which our eminent President referred this morning in his admirable speech, permits us to hope that the financial burden of armaments may be less heavy in the future, and that we may see correspondingly larger sums available for the works of peace, and in particular for those sponsored by Unesco. I have therefore the hope that at Montevideo in - 38 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s III-2
1954 we may perhaps consider the possibility of an increased budget and an expanded programme.
(39) Mr. MARIE (France) - (Translation from the French) I mount this rostrum to fulfil an ele- mentary duty on behalf of my country’s delegation - the elementary but entirely pleasurable duty of expressing its thanks. My duty consists in coming here to tell the Acting Director-General, Mr. Taylor, with what gratitude and pleasure we have heard the words of thanks he has been good enough to express to France in his notable report. He has pointed out - and we have found this most touching - the pleasure and pride with which we have welcomed the work of the Director-Gen- eral, in the same way that we welcome with pleasure and gratitude the big international conferences which Unesco holds in our capital. But I should like to tell him that he has really been too kind in reversing the direction in which thanks should naturally be given. It is France that owes him a debt of gratitude - as the distinguished Swiss delegate, Mr. Piaget, has so well said, and as Mr. Verniers, on behalf of Belgium, has also said - for having uplifted and held aloft the torch in the difficult circumstances in which he was good enough to take it over. For that reason, and that alone, I have mounted this rostrum. It gives me the greatest pleasure to express here our delight in the uninterrupted, cordial and efficient collaboration we have enjoyed with a Director-General who, acting in a temporary capacity, has to say the least, shown himself exceptionally worthy of the high office which he assumed in the difficult circumstances just referred to. France is proud, ladies and gentlemen - as I believe I shall have the opportunity to repeat tomorrow or the next day - to welcome your international Organization to her capital. She will do, she has already done, she will continue to do, everything possible to provide this international Organization with headquarters befitting its work and with the conditions and comfort it requires. But let me tell you at once how delighted we are, in common with Mr. Taylor and the speakers who preceded me, to be able to record at the Quai d’Orsay this very afternoon the fulfilment of one of the greatest hopes we have been cherishing of late years. If I am not mistaken, it was in 1951 that a European Council, under Unesco’s auspices, began the work of framing the Nuclear Research Centre Convention, which is to be signed in a few hours in the Salon de l’Horloge in our Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We are ex- tremely happy to know that in a few moments the representatives of Belgium, Denmark, France, the German Federal Republic, Greece, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and Yugoslavia will sign this Convention, conferring upon the European Nuclear Research Centre a definite status. We are convinced that the International Laboratory in Geneva, designed for research on high energy particles and cosmic rays, will be a great force in the devel- opment of international co-operation in the field of nuclear research, and it is on this note of hope - the hope of seeing Unesco, through international co-operation, working for peace with new effect- iveness - that I wish to repeat to the Acting Director-General our feelings of gratitude and affection.
(40) Mr. MALIK (India) - I would like, on behalf of the Indian delegation, to pay a tribute to the work of the Acting Director-General, Mr. Taylor. Living as I do in Paris, and having had the op- portunity of working with him both on the Executive Board and on the Headquarters Committee during these last few months, I have had many opportunities of seeing the work that Mr. Taylor has been doing. He has said very modestly that, when he assumed this great responsibility, he had set before him the idea “Je maintiendrai”. Well, 1 think he has done more than that. His devotion to the high purposes and the great ideas of this world Organization have been very obvious. He refer- red to the loyalty of his staff. It was generous of him, but we must remember that loyalty and de- votion are also very often inspired by the personality of the man who has the privilege of directing that staff, and I think that no one has been able to see better than we have here in Paris the mutual devotion there has been between the Acting Director-General and his staff. I would like to say then, in conclusion, that the work of Unesco during these few months - and they have been months follow- ing a great crisis when there were all kinds of dangerous possibilities for Unesco itself - has been well handled by Dr. Taylor, and the thanks of this Organization are due to him for his devotion to the ideals and the interests of Unesco.
(41) Mr. LAVES (United States of America) - Mr. President and fellow delegates, the Head of the United States delegation has done me the honour of asking me personally to deliver these few com- ments on the report of the Acting Director-General, in view of the fact that I have the good fortune of being the Chairman of the United States National Commission for Unesco, and that that Commis- sion carries special responsibilities in the United States for helping the American people to co- operate effectively in the work of Unesco. We have direct knowledge of the work that is being done by the Organization, and it seemed therefore peculiarly appropriate that a representative of the Commission should make comments that relate primarily to the programme.
(42) In this General Conference, so largely devoted to the selection of a Director-General for Unesco, the United States delegation is happy that this item on the agenda - the report of the Acting - 39 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   III-2 P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s Director-General - gives us a natural opportunity to commend the leadership of our fellow American, John W. Taylor, who has served as the Acting Director-General over the past seven months. The care, the judgment, the courage, the warm humanity which he has brought to bear upon Unesco’s efforts during this vexing and difficult period have evoked in us both gratitude and pride. Many del- egates left the Conference last December in a mood of great anxiety. The resignation of a highly respected, able and sincere leader of an Organization has often resulted in such a severe loss of morale among the group of civil servants responsible to him for its daily work that its enterprises have faltered. The possibility of this happening in Unesco last fall was augmented by the temporary character of the assignment given to the Acting Director-General and by the growing financial strin- gency facing the Organization. The situation constituted a severe test of the maturity and the pro- fessional competence of all the members of the Secretariat. This report, as well as the one sub- mitted earlier to the Executive Board, are strong evidence that the essential work of the Organiza- tion has indeed gone forward. The carrying-out of the activity authorized by the resolutions in December has been pursued faithfully, expeditiously and with some notable advance. This success- ful surmounting of obstacles, both psychological and substantial, warrant our sincere commenda- tion of the Secretariat and of the Acting Director-General.
(43) Permit me to note a very few of the items referred to in this report which have seemed to US of particular importance in this particular year. We have been especially gratified that the second Centre for the training of teachers of Fundamental Education is now under way, and that the first group of teachers is, in fact, in training in the Middle East Centre. In our view, this work of Unesco in the field of fundamental education represents one of the most important programmes of the Organization and one which probably should make a greater call on its resources than any other portion of our programme.
(44) We are equally gratified that the Bombay Conference, following the Fourteenth International Conference on Free and Compulsory Education, has stimulated, in the countries of South-East Asia, very practical action. That plans have indeed been advanced to establish a European Centre for Nuclear Research, devoted to co-operation for peaceful ends, is a happy illustration of Unesco- stimulated international co-operation in a most important intellectual field. We are impressed with the rapidly growing usefulness of the Field Science Co-operation Offices, and we have noted with particular pleasure the increasing demand being made on these Offices in the sphere of the social sciences.
(45) Noting the report of the additional signatures to the Universal Copyright Convention - another example of the constructive and practical work done by this Organization, young as it is - I should like to say that in the United States this Convention has now been submitted by the President to the Senate and that the implementing legislation is expected shortly. In general, it seems to us, Mr. President, that the activities of the Organization are particularly encouraging in the fields of edu- cation and of science. To some extent, the same may be said of the resolutions and the progress made in the field of the social sciences and cultural activities. We, particularly the National Com- mission, feel some disappointment, perhaps because of the mounting insistence of world events, in the progress that has been made in regard to those varied activities which contribute to the edu- cation of persons in understanding and in strengthening the bond of international co-operation, to which the distinguished delegate of Belgium has only recently referred. This will no doubt be re- medied somewhat by the meetings of the expert committee called to meet here in Paris in mid-July to discuss the problem of Education for Living in a World Community. In this connexion, I think I should reassure you concerning the work of the United States National Commission. We are holding a conference this coming September in the city of Minneapolis for the precise purpose of discussing America’s stake in international co-operation. Our National Commission feels keenly the import- ance of public discussions on this problem, and we hope that any of you, or representatives of your National Commissions who may find themselves in the States in the course of the month of Septem- ber, will do us the honour of being present during these deliberations.
(46) In commenting upon the report of the working party on future programme and development, we indicated earlier this year our concern that there should be greater concentration and more effective action on a more limited series of activities. We are fully aware that no one country has the right to assume that Unesco will concentrate only upon those things which are of particular interest to it, but we are equally convinced that all National Commissions would welcome an opportunity to concen- trate their efforts more and more, in order to be able more noticeably to influence the course of events and see the results of the work upon which they are engaged. I am sure all National Com- missions are faced by the same financial stringency which the American National Commission faces, and in these circumstances it is particularly important that we be not overburdened as National Com- missions with programmes which we cannot carry out, but to which we must give attention, and thus fritter away the small resources that are available.
(47) I shall mention one last point. The United States delegation has noted particularly the portion - 40 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s III-2 of the Acting Director-General’s report dealing with National Commissions. We share his concern over the slow rate at which evidence of strong National Commission work comes to the Secretariat. We fear that this is evidence that ways and means for strengthening the work of National Commis- sions are not being found as rapidly as the importance of Unesco’s task requires. We, like other Member States, shall want to consider these issues when drawing up the programme for 1955-56.
(48) Meantime, and in conclusion, to the Acting Director-General and to the Secretariat the United States Government, through its delegation here, extends our appreciation for the constructive work that has been covered and been revealed in the Acting Director-General’s report. At no time since Unesco was created has there been more evidence on every hand of the need for developing honest understanding among peace-loving peoples. Nor has there ever been so much evidence of the im- portance of Unesco in furthering that understanding which must underlie the work and the community of the peoples joined in the United Nations.
(49) Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil) - (Translation from the French) Mr. President, fellow delegates and Mr. Acting Director-General, the countries and Governments most distant from Unesco Headquarters have not remained indifferent to the tasks which you, Mr. Taylor, have accomplished during these six months of arduous work. A castle in Spain was built and completed by the statesman and man of genius who was our Director-General for some years. One evening this castle collapsed. You were skilful and courageous enough to retrieve part after part and use what could still be used of the former dream which had become a ruin, so as to begin again and to set out afresh. Such an act of faith and devotion is not easily forgotten. Many men would have gone away dispirited after that evening of which we still retain the bitter and unhappy memory. You remained, however, faithful at your post; you stood by your old colleagues who had already shown proof of their courage, their intelligence and their understanding of an arduous task. We are grateful to you, we who receive from Unesco the vast benefits it has been called upon to distribute, demanding nothing but that we should be its servants. Let me tell you that the experiment you have carried out during the last six months is an experiment which is in itself of great value for the immediate future of Unesco. A very great task was entrusted to you, to be fulfilled as you have pointed out with your characteristic candour and boldness, with a budget inadequate for the purpose. We have before us a report cover- ing six months’ work - six months during which everyone has given of his best. But the work, as you have been the first to realize, falls far below that which this same machine, inspired by a man of courage, intelligence and goodwill, could have produced if he had been given the funds he needed.
(50) Technical Assistance is one of the stumbling-blocks of this Organization. We were led to hope, I am sure in all good faith, that a reduction in Unesco’s budget would be followed by an increase in the Technical Assistance budget. You also pointed this out in your report. The contrary has occurred, and the reduction in the Technical Assistance budget has perhaps been even larger than the reduction in the Unesco budget. One reduction has followed another. Yet, at a time when the funds for our work were being constantly cut, you have nevertheless shown that, regardless of financial resources and in spite of every possible restriction, the dignity of a man bent on his task can make a worthy effort, and this effort you have accomplished. I earnestly hope you will be able to continue your work.
(51) The PRESIDENT - I feel sure I am echoing the sentiments of all the delegates present here when I congratulate the Acting Director-General on the manner in which he has discharged the duties which were suddengly imposed on him, and on the courage and ability, the modesty and humanity which governed his administration. APPOINTMENT OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL ON THE PROPOSALOF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD
(52) The PRESIDENT - We now proceed to the next item on the agenda: the appointment of the Director-General. This meeting will be a private session in accordance with Rules 62, 64, 65 and
67 of the Rules of Procedure. The following persons may attend the private plenary meeting for the election of the Director-General: (1) members of delegations entitled to vote; (2) delegates of Member States not entitled to vote; (3) observers of non-Member States; (4) members of the Exe- cutive Board who are not members of delegations; (5) representatives of the United Nations; (6) the minimum Secretariat staff required. The meeting went into private session. - 41 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   III-2 P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s The second plenary meeting continued in public.
(53) The PRESIDENT - The Executive Board will submit the name together with the draft contract, and the General Conference will take a decision by secret ballot. I call upon Sir Ronald Adam.
(54) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive Board) - In public session I want to propose two draft resolutions on behalf of the Executive Board. The first reads: “The General Conference, Considering the nomination presented to it by the Executive Board, In accordance with Article VI. 2 of the Constitution, Appoints Dr. Luther H. Evans as Director-General of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. ”
(55) The second draft resolution is: “The General Conference Approves the draft contract presented to it by the Executive Board establishing the terms of appointment, salary, allowances and status of Dr. Luther H. Evans as Director-General.”
(56) The PRESIDENT - I should now like to indicate, for the information of delegates, the rules for the conduct of elections by secret ballot. In order to vote, delegations must satisfy the condi- tions set forth in Article IV B of the Constitution and Rule of Procedure 79. Before the ballot opens, the President appoints two tellers from among the delegates present. The two tellers will be Mr. Yukawa, Japan, and Mr. Siller Blanco, Mexico. He will hand them a list of delegations entitled to vote and a list of candidates for the election of members of the Executive Board. The Secretariat will distribute ballot papers and envelopes to the delegations. Ballot papers and envelopes will be of white paper without any distinguishing marks. Blank ballot papers, i. e. those on which there are no names will be deemed to be abstentions. Ballot papers on which there are more names than one and ballot papers on which voters have revealed their identity, in particular by apposing their signature or mentioning the name of the Member State they represent will be considered invalid. Ballot papers containing the same number as there are persons to be elected will be ready presently.
(57) At the election of the Director-General the vote will be on the candidate submitted by the Exe- cutive Board. You should not reveal your identity on the ballot papers. You should not indicate the State you represent. If your decision is “yes”, mark that column with a cross; if “no”, put a cross against the “no” column. Otherwise, leave the paper blank.
(58) I would remind you that there are two draft resolutions before you. One relates to the election of the Director-General and the other to the contract establishing the terms of his appointment, salary, allowances etc. Only the election of the Director-General will be balloted now. A vote was taken by roll-call.
(59) The PRESIDENT - The result of the ballot is 39 for and 17 against. Dr. Luther Evans is thus the elected Director-General. I call upon the Chairman of the Executive Board.
(60) Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) - May I move the second part of the resolution approving the draft contract presented by the Executive Board establishing the terms of appointment, salary, allowances and status of Dr. Luther Evans as Director-General, I would like to assure fellow delegates that it is in exactly the same terms as Dr. Torres Bodet's and Dr. John Taylor’s, The amount is the same and everything else is the same. (1)
(61) The PRESIDENT - May I take it that the draft resolution meets with your approval? I note that it is unanimously approved.
(62) Mr. PIAGET (Switzerland) - (Translation from the French) I should like to make a brief state- ment, or rather two brief statements. The first is that this is a democratic Organization and that, therefore, the minority accepts defeat with a smile. The second statement is this. I told you a little while ago that Dr. Luther Evans was a good sportsman. Well, we will be just as good sports- men as he is, and so shall I for my part. On behalf of the Swiss delegation I pledge him our com- plete collaboration in his task, a task of great difficulty - owing to the handicaps I have just indica- ted to you. The meeting rose at 7. 15 p. m.
(1) The text is given at the end of the seventh plenary meeting, at which the contract was signed. - 42 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.