III- 1 C H A P T E R  I I I PLENARY MEETINGS FIRST PLENARY MEETING Wednesday, 1 July 1953 at 10.30 a.m. President: Dr. SARVEPALLI RADHAKRISHNAN (India) C O N T E N T S Opening of the session by the Head of the Indian dele- gation. . . , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Establishment of the Credentials Committee. . . . . Report of the Credentials Committee . . . . . . . . Adoption of the Agenda . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Establishment of the General Committee . . . . . . Admission of observers from international non-govern- mental organizations . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
33 OPENING OF THE SESSION BY THE HEAD OF THE INDIAN DELEGATION
(1) The PRESIDENT - Fellow delegates, I have great pleasure in extending to you all a very hearty welcome to this Second Extraordinary Session of the General Conference. Since we last met, Spain, Nepal and Libya have ratified our Constitution and have now become full Members.
(2) This special session is convened as a result of developments which happened at the last session, due to Dr. Torres Bodet’s resignation. I wish to take this opportunity to pay my tribute to his great qualities. He was a dedicated man, devoted to the work of international understanding and world peace. Whatever we may feel about his resignation, we were all impressed by his unselfishdevotion to the cause of Unesco. Simple in his personal life, industrious to a fault, he had a burning faith in Unesco’s mission and a compelling resolution that it should succeed. Wherever he may be, I have no doubt that he will continue to serve the cause of world peace and international understanding.
(3) The choice of a successor is not an easy task. We require a man of great academic eminence, intellectual integrity and, above all, faith in Unesco. The Executive Board will present to you pro- posals which will come up for our consideration later. In the meantime, Dr. Taylor has been carry- ing on the work of Unesco with great ability and skill, as the report on the activities of this Organi- zation in the period from November 1952 to April 1953 clearly indicates.
(4) From the agenda you will see that the Governments of Hungary and Czechoslovakia wish to with- draw from membership of Unesco. At the last session, a similar proposal was made by the Polish Government and the Executive Board passed a resolution requesting the Polish Government “to re- consider its decision, and to resume its full collaboration in the Organization’s activities”. A similar resolution, addressed to the Governments of Hungary and Czechoslovakia will come up for our consideration.
(5) In recent weeks there have been several indications which suggest a change in the mood and manner and, I hope, in the mind and heart, of Soviet Russia and her friends. We seek and invite their co-operation in the work of Unesco. All the peoples of the world ardently yearn for peace and all governments proclaim their desire for peace. Peace is not merely the absence of hostilities; it - 29 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   III-I P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s is the strengthening of a positive fellow-feeling; it is an appraisal of the ideas and ideals, of the anxieties and aspirations of other peoples, and if we become universal our effectiveness will in- crease. To the extent to which we are not universal, our effectiveness will be diminished. So we seek the co-operation of all nations, and we ask them to come here and collaborate with us, reduce tensions, increase fellow-feeling and strengthen world-mindedness. World-mindedness is the real need of the times. The world has grown small and we must learn to live together. If we do not learn to do so, we shall perish together. In this world there are twelve hundred millions of people, hungry, naked, illiterate, imprisoned in both mind and soul. And the others are living in a climate of fear, suspicion and selfishness which they call patriotism. Unless we are able to bring the two sections together and raise the status of the exploited and under-privileged nations, it will not be possible for us to remove the threat to peace.
(6) The League of Nations was founded with the idea of promoting international collaboration and avoiding the scourge of war; but the powers that had the leadership in the League mishandled the situation and put their national interests above moral law and principle, and we were led to a state of war. Today, we must learn from that warning and avoid the pitfalls which beset the League of Nations. If we protect privilege, if we support reaction, if we ally ourselves with corrupt and un- representative administrations, if we mistake stability for the maintenance of present conditions, if we give the impression that we are interested in the “status quo”, we will not remove the fears and pressures that led to two wars in a single generation. It is essential for us to realize that freedom is indivisible. We cannot have freedom in one country and deny it to others. We cannot have freedom in political matters and deny it in social, economic and cultural affairs.
(7) The spirit of man had to emancipate itself from the shackles of authority, religious and political. Today, we cannot be sure that the spirit of man feels itself to be genuinely free. There are open enemies of freedom and they did not end when the Second World War was concluded. There are secret unseen enemies, there are deluded, unconscious enemies who suppress freedom in the belief that they are safeguarding freedom.
(8) It is essential for us to realize that if freedom is to be saved, we must have the courage to fight its battles. If eternal vigilance is the price of liberty, this is a time when we have to be vigilant, so far as the encroachments on freedom are concerned.
(9) Some take the view that man must be regarded as merely flesh and bone, an instrument of the God-state. We do not share that view in this Organization. We believe that man is a spiritual being. He is not satisfied with what he sees or what he hears. He wishes to establish contact with another and unseen world which transcends this particular world of ours. It is essential that the unity of mankind be created, not by the blood and treasure which we waste on battlefields, but by the develop- ment of truth and virtue, which we build up in the hearts and minds of men.
(10) So far as this Organization is concerned, we must lay stress on what may be regarded as its international bias and direction. Nationalism and internationalism are not to be regarded as incon- sistent with each other. Humanity is not an abstract concept. It consists of particularities - particularities of persons and particularities of nations. We have to work for the welfare of man- kind through the service of the nations. We have to serve nations through the service of humanity. I should like to quote to you here two statements made by Gandhi. They are words of wisdom and words of warning. He says, “My idea of nationalism is that my country may become free” - mark the word - “that, if need be, the whole of my country may die so that the human race may live. There is no room for race hatred here”. Let that be our nationalism. We want independence for our country, to serve the welfare of humanity, and if the welfare of humanity cannot be served by our survival we shall vote for our non-survival. Again, “I want to think in terms of the whole world. My patriotism includes the good of mankind in general. My service of India includes the service of humanity. Isolated independence is not the goal of the world States. It is voluntary interdependence. The better mind of the world desires today not absolutely independent States warring one against another, but a federation of friendly, interdependent States. The consummation of that event may be far off. I want to make no grand claim for our country. But I see nothing extravagant or impos- sible about our expressing our readiness for universal interdependence rather than isolated inde- pendence. ” That is the view of Gandhi. He asks us to work for an interdependent world.
(11) Those who serve in this Organization should be dedicated to the spirit of this interdependence, of this world union. There may be strong nationalists; they may have their particular political convictions, but all these should be subordinated to the one task of developing international cons- cience, That is the supreme loyalty which we expect from our international civil servants. It is not right for them to indulge in any activities which may lead to nationalist egotism or ideological hatreds, but we should remember that democratic institutions are not devised for bringing about uniformity of political opinion. The essential feature of democracy is that, under its auspices, many different types of life and character, thought and belief, can develop unmolested. We cannot destroy ideas by intimidation. They can be destroyed only if we provide something better in their place. - 30 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s III-1 In our efforts to save democracy let us not empty it of its content. In this Organization our supreme purpose should be to give a soul to this world, which is struggling to find its unity, not merely ma- terially, economically and politically, but culturally and spiritually.
(12) If you study the rise and fall of civilizations you will develop a healthy scepticism about our own civilization. We need not think that it is something permanent. We can make it permanent only if we try to build it on moral foundations and not on foundations of collective selfishness. What is necessary is our primary patriotism to human welfare and the building up of this world on moral and spiritual values. If we overlook this, our civilization will perish, and it does not deserve to survive.
(13) All nations of the world stand today at a critical point. They are facing a test for human civi- lization itself. Unless the Lord build the house, it cannot endure. Unless you are able to subordi- nate your particular interests, unless you are able to put moral principle and international justice higher than your national security and interest, this civilization will also pass into history. That is the warning which history has for us. If the past has anything to teach us, it is this. We must try to rethink our foundations and build our world on sounder bases.
(14) I have great pleasure in declaring this Second Extraordinary Session of the General Conference open. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE
(15) The first business is the establishment of the Credentials Committee. According to Rule of Procedure 27, I propose the first nine members of the Credentials Committee at the Seventh Session: Australia, Belgium, Brazil, France, India, United Kingdom. United States of America. Venezuela and Yugoslavia.
(16) Article IV 8(b) of the Constitution makes the right to vote conditional upon the payment by Member States of their financial contributions. Certain States whose contributions were in arrears were advised of that fact by the Director-General in letters dated 13 March 1953, and a further note on 5 June 1953. These States are Argentina, Bolivia, China, Czechoslovakia, Guatemala, Hungary, Iran, Poland and Uruguay. They will be unable to vote during the General Conference since the amount of their arrears exceeds the amount of contributions due from them for the current year and the immediately preceding calendar year. Paragraph 8(c) of Article IV declares, however, that the General Conference may permit such Member States to vote if it is satisfied that the failure to pay is due to conditions beyond their control. It therefore rests with the delegations of the countries concerned to request the General Conference, if they think fit, to adopt this latter course. Requests should be addressed to the President of the Conference, who will transmit them to the General Committee. Such a request has already been addressed to me by the Head of the Chinese delegation and by the Head of the Uruguayan delegation. The General Conference adjourned until the Credentials Committee submitted its report. REPORT OF THE CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE
(17) The PRESIDENT - I call on the Chairman of the Credentials Committee.
(18) Mr. PARRA-PEREZ (Venezuela) (Chairman of the Credentials Committee) - (Translation from the Spanish) Mr. President, fellow delegates, the Committee established by the General Conference of Unesco at its Second Extraordinary Session met at eleven o’clock this morning, its members being the representatives of the following countries: Australia, Belgium, Brazil, France, India, United Kingdom, United States of America, Venezuela and Yugoslavia.
(19) This Committee did me the honour to elect me as its Chairman, and I am speaking on its behalf. The Committee examined the credentials submitted to it by the Director-General of the Organization from various Member States, and decided at this first meeting that the delegates of the following States had been duly accredited in conformity with Rule 22 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference by instruments issued either by the Head of the State, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, or another minister authorized for that purpose by the Ministers for Foreign Affairs of their respective countries: Austria, Belgium, Canada, China, Costa Rica, Cuba, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, France, German Federal Republic, Greece, Haiti, India, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Italy, Japan, Laos, Liberia, Libya, Mexico, Monaco, Norway, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Saudi-Arabia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Union of South Africa, United Kingdom, United States of America, Viet-Nam, Yugoslavia. The Committee recommends - 31 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   III- 1 P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s that the delegations of these Member States be allowed to take part in the Second Extraordinary Ses- sion of the General Conference.
(20) In addition, credentials in the form of letters, telegrams or other documents issued either by some minister other than the Minister for Foreign Affairs and not authorized by him, or by heads of diplomatic missions, or by senior officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, have been submitted by the representatives of the following States: Australia, Brazil, Cambodia, Colombia, Egypt, Honduras, Indonesia, Jordan, Korea, Lebanon, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Syria, Turkey, Uruguay, Venezuela.
(21) The Committee suggests that the documents thus received be deemed to constitute provisional credentials for the representatives of the aforesaid countries, it being understood that the delega- tions concerned will be required later to present credentials in due form, and that meanwhile they shall be admitted to participation in the work of the Second Extraordinary Session of the General Conference.
(22) The following Member States have submitted no credentials and were not represented at this morning’s meeting: Afghanistan, Argentina, Bolivia, Ceylon, Czechoslovakia, Guatemala, Hungary, Nepal, Poland, Union of Burma.
(23) In order to save time, the Committee suggests that if further credentials are submitted to it, they shall be examined by the Chairman, who will report thereon to the General Conference.
(24) The PRESIDENT - Do any delegates wish to speak on this report? May I take it that the report has the approval of the Conference? The report is approved. ADOPTION OF THE AGENDA
(25) The PRESIDENT - I call upon the Chairman of the Executive Board.
(26) Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) (Chairman of the Executive Board) - Mr. President and fellow delegates, I have the honour on behalf of the Executive Board to propose to the General Con- ference the adoption of its agenda. This agenda is in front of you in document 2 XC/ 1, with one addition which I will mention later. You will see that, after the purely formal items necessary for the organization of the session, which are items 1 to 6, there follow the three items which the General Conference at its Seventh Session decided to place on the agenda of the Extraordinary Ses- sion. These are item 7 - Appointment of the Director-General; item 8 - Plans for the Headquarters building and item 9 - Resignation of Mr. Ribnikar of Yugoslavia from the Executive Board.
(27) After these items, decided on by the Conference itself, there are four further items which the Executive Board recommends to the Conference: item 10 - Report by the Acting Director-General on the work of the Organization during the time that he has been in charge; item 11 - Communica- tions from the Governments of Hungary and Czechoslovakia; and items 12 and 13 - Two urgent and important questions concerning the staff.
(28) Finally, the Government of India has requested that the Conference should place on its agenda the following item: “Consideration of the report of the seminar on the contribution of Gandhian outlook and techniques to the solution of tensions among and within nations”. The Executive Board considers this question to be of great importance and it has therefore recommended to the Confer- ence to include it on its agenda. Consequently, the Executive Board recommends to the Conference the adoption of the agenda consisting of these fourteen items.
(29) The PRESIDENT - There is a request from the Government of the United States of America for the inclusion of a supplementary item in the provisional agenda. I call upon the Head of the United States delegation.
(30) Mr. SALOMON (United States of America) - Mr. President, fellow delegates, the United States delegation has requested the inclusion of an item on the agenda of the Conference, which is described in document 2 XC/l0 dated 25 June 1953. The purpose of the supplementary agenda item is to pro- vide an opportunity for the review of certain aspects of Unesco personnel policy, with a view to achieving conformity with United Nations policy in this matter. I hope that this item will be included in the agenda.
(31) The PRESIDENT - The Conference has before it the agenda of fourteen items presented by the Chairman of the Executive Board and an additional item presented by the United States delegation. Any observations? Those in favour of the adoption of this agenda of 15 items, 14 by the Chairman of the Executive Board and one by the leader of the United States delegation ? Those against? The agenda is adopted unanimously. - 32 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s III-1 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE GENERAL COMMITTEE
(32) I call upon the Chairman of the Executive Board.
(33) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive Board) - In accordance with Rule 30 of the Rules of Procedure, the Executive Board is required to provide the Conference with information to assist it in preparing the list of nominations to the posts of President and Vice-Presidents of the Conference. The Board has discussed this question of nominations and has come to the conclusion that the most satisfactory course for the Extraordinary Conference would be to re-elect “en bloc” all the officers who constituted the General Committee at the Seventh Session. In so doing the Con- ference will save a great deal of time and it will be assured of having a satisfactory geographical distribution of the seats on the General Committee. Moreover, it will be following the precedent created at the First Extraordinary Session in 1948, when all the officers of the Second Session were reappointed. The Board, therefore, recommends to the Conference that it should elect the officers of the Seventh Session who made up the General Committee. These officers were: President: Head of the delegation of India; Vice-Presidents: Heads of the delegations of the German Federal Republic, Canada, France, Greece, Italy, Liberia, Mexico, Pakistan, United Kingdom and Syria.
(34) It also suggests a member of the delegation of Lebanon for the Programme Commission; a member of the delegation of the United States of America for the Administrative Commission; a member of the delegation of Venezuela for the Credentials Committee; a member of the delegation of the Netherlands for the Nominations Committee; a member of the delegation of Sweden for the Budget Committee; a member of the delegation of Japan for the Legal Committee; and a member of the delegation of Turkey for the Committee on Reports of Member States.
(35) It would be understood that, although the Chairman of the various Commissions and Commit- tees would be re-elected and would sit on the General Committee, their Commissions and Commit- tees would only be called together to meet if the Conference deemed it necessary.
(36) The PRESIDENT - Any observations.? May I take it that the recommendations of the Chairman of the Executive Board have the approval of the Conference.? The membership of the General Com- mittee will thus be as follows: India, Canada, France, German Federal Republic, Greece, Italy, Liberia, Mexico, Pakistan, United Kingdom, Syria, Lebanon, United States of America, Venezuela, Netherlands, Sweden, Japan and Turkey.
(37) Will these delegations give the names of the delegates who will be required to serve on the General Committee? Canada, H. E. Mr. Pierre Dupuy; France, H. E. Mr. Andre Marie; German Federal Republic, Mr. Rudolf Salat; Greece, Professor Alexandre Photiades; Italy, H. E. Dr. Bartolomeo Migone; Liberia, Honourable Nathaniel V. Massaquoi; Mexico, H. E. Don Francisco A. de Icaza; Pakistan, Mr. Hussain; United Kingdom, Sir Ben Bowen Thomas; Syria, Dr. Constantin Zurayk; Lebanon, Mgr Jean Maroun; United States of America, Mr. Irving Salomon; Venezuela, H. E. Dr. C. Parra-Perez; Netherlands, Dr. F. Bender; Sweden, Professor Ingemar During; Japan, H. E. Mr. Toru Haguiwara; Turkey, Professor Bedrettin Tuncel. ADMISSION OF OBSERVERS FROM INTERNATIONAL NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS
(38) The PRESIDENT - I call upon the Chairman of the Executive Board.
(39) Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) (Chairman of the Executive Board) - The recommendations of the Executive Board on this point are set out in document 2 XC/4. In addition to the 106 non- governmental organizations who have consultative arrangements with Unesco and who have been invited to send observers to the present session, the Executive Board recommends to the Confer- ence that it should invite, in accordance with Rule of Procedure 7, the three following organizations to be represented by observers: Carnegie Foundation for International Peace; Rockefeller Found- ation and the Ford Foundation. The activities of these organizations and their interest in Unesco are well known and they have been invited to attend previous sessions of the Conference.
(40) The PRESIDENT - Have these recommendations the approval of the Conference ? Mr. Parra- Perez has an additional statement to make.
(41) Mr. PARRA-PEREZ (Venezuela) (Chairman of the Credentials Committee) - (Translation from the Spanish) The Credentials Committee, at its meeting this morning, also examined the credentials of observers from the following States, which are not Members of the Organization: Finland, Ireland, Holy See; and those of observers representing the United Nations, the International - 33 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   III-2 P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s Civil Aviation Organisation and the International Labour Organization. The Committee recommends to the General Conference that these observers be admitted. The various proposals were adopted. The meeting rose at 12.10 p. m. SECOND PLENARY MEETING Thursday, 2 July 1953, at 10.55 a. m. President: Dr. SARVEPALLI RADHAKRISHNAN (India) C O N T E N T S Recommendations of the General Committee regarding the right of certain delegations to vote. . . . . . . 34 Report of the Acting Director-General on the activities of the organization from November 1952 to April 1953 34 Discussion on the report of the ActingDirector-General 37 Appointment of the Director-General on the proposal of the Executive Board. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41 RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE GENERAL COMMITTEE REGARDING THE RIGHT OF CERTAIN DELEGATIONS TO VOTE
(1) The PRESIDENT - The General Committee studied the requests received from the delegations of China, Iran and Uruguay, and decided to recommend to the General Conference to grant the right to vote at the present Extraordinary Session to these three Member States, in accordance with the provisions of Article IV 8(c) of the Constitution. The General Committee recommends, moreover, that the same facilities be granted for these Extraordinary Sessions to any other Member State that presents its credentials in due form, that has fully paid its contributions up to 1950 inclusive, and that submits a request to be allowed to vote to the President of the Conference. The recommenda- tions are approved. REPORT OF THE ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL ON THE ACTIVITIES OF THE ORGANIZATION FROM NOVEMBER 1952 TO APRIL 1953
(2) The PRESIDENT - We now proceed to the discussion of the report of the Acting Director-Gene- ral. The Chairman of the Executive Board will present the report.
(3) Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) (Chairman of the Executive Board) - Mr. President, fellow delegates, under Article V. 9 of the Constitution the Chairman of the Executive Board presents the report of the Director-General with or without comments to every ordinary session of the General Conference. Nothing is said about extraordinary sessions. Now, the members of the Executive Board felt that this was an occassion in which the Acting Director-General had carried on for a con- siderable period and that it was right that he should give a report of his work to this Extraordinary Session. It is a report of the work carried out since Dr. Torres Bodet reported to the Seventh Ses- sion up to October 1952. and the report, as you see, carries us up to the end of April 1953. Norm- ally this report involves a long discussion, because it introduces the new programme of thefollowing - 34 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.