VI-8. I C H A P T E R  V I HEADQUARTERS COMMITTEE EIGHTH SESSION FIRST MEETING Monday, 23 February 1953, at 10 a.m. Chairman: Mr. THOMSON (United States of America) later: Mr. PARRA-PEREZ (Venezuela) ADOPTION OF AGENDA (8 HQ/l)
(1) As all members had not yet arrived, the CHAIRMAN proposed that the election of officers be postponed for the time being. He suggested that, after hearing a brief report from the Acting Director-General on the contract with the three architects discussed at the previous meeting, Mr. Breuer should be asked to say a few words on the present state of the plans. The Committee would then consider items 1, 2. 3, 4 and 5 of its agenda. Two further items should be added to the agenda, namely: 6. Date of Extraordinary Session of the General Conference ; and 7. Date of the next meeting of the Headquarters Committee.
(2) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) wondered whether an item should be added on the date for the circulation of preliminary plans outside the immediate circle of the Headquarters Committee.
(3) The CHAIRMAN replied that the matter could be discussed with Mr. Breuer.
(4) The agenda, as amended by the Chairman, was adopted. APPROVAL OF THE MINUTES OF THE LAST MEETING
(5) The minutes of the last meeting (7C/HQ/SR. 4) were approved.
(6) At the request of the ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL, Mr. MONTAGNIER reported on the arrangements concluded with the group of three architects. He recalled that the Committee, at its last meeting, had expressed a wish that expenses be reduced as much as possible ; the Secretariat had accordingly negotiated with the architects with that aim in view and, thanks to their spirit of co-operation, it had been possible to reduce their fees by $5,000, i. e. from $30,000 to $25,000. Further, Messrs. Breuer and Nervi having generously agreed not to have their travelling expenses reimbursed, nor to accept any per diem allowance during their stay in Paris, an economy of $8,000 had been effected.
(7) A substantial economy had also been made on administrative expenses; instead of appointing a P. 4 official to act as liaison agent between the Secretariat and the architects, the work had been undertaken by the Bureau of Conference Planning and General Services, thus reducing costs from $8,693 to $2.000. Therefore the original total estimate of $101,000 had been reduced to $82, 000.
(8) Mr. Montagnier then read Article IV of the new contract with the architects, pointing out that it was the only Article differing from those appearing in the earlier contract.
(9) Mr. VALEUR (France) congratulated the Secretariat on its negotiations and economies, and paid tribute to the disinterestedness of the architects. ELECTION OF OFFICERS
(10) The CHAIRMAN recalled that the Committee had approved the procedure of rotation of officers, - 115 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   VI-8. 1 H e a d q u a r t e r s  C o m m i t t e e with particular reference to the Chairman; he therefore earnestly requested the Committee to re- lieve him of his responsibilities, adding that his Government concurred in his request. After welcoming the three new members of the Committee and paying a tribute to those who had retired, he expressed his gratitude to all members for their warm and unfailing support, to the French re- presentative for his cordial co-operation, and to the Acting Director-General and members of the Secretariat for the very effective help which they had given the Committee.
(11) Pointing out that the first phase of the Committee’s task would not be terminated until the Extraordinary Session of the General Conference had approved the plans submitted to it, Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil) proposed that, in the interests of continuity, Mr. Thomson be re-elected Chairman.
(12) Although deeply touched by Mr. Carneiro’s proposal, Mr. THOMSON (United States of America) very gratefully declined the honour.
(13) After praising the skill with which Mr. Thomson had conducted many difficult meetings and the sterling work which he had done, Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) proposed as Mr. Thomson’s successor Mr. Parra-Perez, who had had previous experience of building problems at the League of Nations, and who had rendered such valuable service to Unesco’s Executive Board.
(14) The proposal was unanimously adopted by acclamation.
(15) The CHAIRMAN having called for nominations for the post of Vice-Chairman, Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil) proposed Mr. Malik.
(16) Adopted unanimously by acclamation.
(17) The CHAIRMAN’s proposal that Mr. Davies be re-elected Rapporteur was also adopted unanimously by acclamation.
(18) Taking the Chair, Mr. PARRA-PEREZ expressed his gratitude to his colleagues for the honour that they had done him, praised the work of Mr. Thomson and paid a warm tribute to the French authorities for the extraordinary courtesy and goodwill which they had always displayed throughout the negotiations relating to the Headquarters building. He added that he was greatly honoured to have the support of Mr. Malik and Mr. Davies.
(19) Mr. VALEUR (France) and Mr. DAVIES (Australia) both expressed warm appreciation of the excellent work done in difficult circumstances by Mr. Thomson, and their satisfaction that he should be succeeded by so distinguished a Chairman as Mr. Parra-Perez.
(20) The CHAIRMAN called upon Mr. Breuer to report on the plans for the new building.
(21) Drawing attention to a number of charts affixed to the wall, Mr. BREUER explained that he and his colleagues had made their plans with two considerations in mind: (a) town planning require- ments; (b) the functions and aspect of the Unesco building. They had come to the conclusion that although they should complete the composition of the Place de Fontenoy it was not absolutely necessary to follow the architectural composition too strictly. As there was more space available than there had been at the Porte Maillot site, they had felt that they could design a building which would be really suitable for Unesco. Taking account, however, of the nearby historical buildings and particularly of the Ecole Militaire, they had decided that the Unesco building should not exceed seven or eight stories, i. e. approximately twenty-nine metres ; that made concentration necessary, and so they planned to have one main entrance hall in the principal building with one central line of vertical communications. To avoid having long corridors, that building had been designed in the shape of a “Y”, with all the offices on the periphery so that the light would be good. With regard to the Conference building, the architects had studied Unesco’s requirements during the Seventh Ses- sion of the General Conference; in consequence, they had planned a delegates’ lounge to serve as a central meeting place, and all the Conference rooms were axed on that. The Conference building was connected with the main “Y”-shaped office building. The building designed for meetings of the Executive Board was separate, but also connected with both the other buildings.
(22) In conclusion, Mr. Breuer stated that the layout which he had described had been approved both by the International Panel of Five Architects and by the French Authorities. - 116 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   H e a d q u a r t e r s  C o m m i t t e e VI-8.1
(23) Mr. de CLEMENTI (Italy) suggested that it would be a great economy to have the Executive Board room in the Conference building. Further, he pointed out that two façades of the Secretariat building faced north and would have to be heated more than the third side, which might cause diffi- culties.
(24) Mr. BREUER replied that the reasons for placing the Executive Board room in a separate building were purely architectural. The architects had considered incorporating it in the Confer- ence building, but had decided that it would make the latter too large and clumsy; also they had been informed by the Secretariat that it would be possible to have the Executive Board room separate from the Conference building. Mr. Breuer did not believe that its incorporation in the Conference building would entail any economy, as the latter would have to be enlarged.
(25) With regard to Mr. de Clementi’s second question, the heating would be zoned and thermo- statically controlled, so that there would be no wastage.
(26) In reply to a question from Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom), Mr. MONTAGNIER said that the Executive Board room would be used for other meetings when the Board was not in session.
(27) Mr. de CLEMENTI (Italy) thought that, in that case, it would be more logical and more con- venient for small delegations during the Conference to have all the Conference rooms in one build- ing.
(28) Mr. MONTAGNIER explained that the architects had originally thought of having all the Con- ference rooms in one egg-shaped building between the two branches of the “Y” on the Place de Fontenoy. For architectural reasons, it had been suggested that the egg-shaped building be divided into two, and it was at that point that the Secretariat had been asked if the Executive Board room could be separated from the other Conference rooms.
(29) Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil) did not share the views of Mr. de Clementi. He thought it a very good thing for the Board to be dissociated from the General Conference and to have a building where it could work in tranquillity away from the noise and bustle of the Conference. Further, when the Board met during the year, it would not be necessary to mobilize the larger Conference building, which should be kept only for big meetings. He pointed out that the plans before the Com- mittee were the outcome of long study and discussions and had finally been approved by all con- cerned; in view of the shortage of time, it would be most inadvisable to start revising them at the present juncture.
(30) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom), seconded by Mr. de CLEMENTI (Italy) suggested that a Conference room might be created in the office building itself; such a room would serve both for meetings of the Board and for departmental and inter-departmental meetings.
(31) Mr. BREUER pointed out that the architects had always been given to understand that the Executive Board, unless in a separate building, was to be grouped with the General Conference and not with the Secretariat. With regard to the possibility of including it in the Secretariat building, the latter was supported by columns at a certain distance one from the other. Architecturally it would be difficult to insert a room measuring over 200 square metres, i. e. 15 m x 15 m, inside the span of the columns. However, if the reason were important enough, it could of course be done, if necessary by changing the column span.
(32) On the subject of inter-departmental meetings, Mr. MONTAGNIER explained that provision had been made in the Secretariat building for six small rooms, measuring approximately 36 square metres.
(33) Mr. MALIK (India) suggested that the branch of the Secretariat building pointing towards the Conference building might be extended to meet it, thus providing accommodation for the Executive Board between the Secretariat and the General Conference. He proposed that the Committee in- form the architects that it would prefer the Executive Board room to be included in one of the two blocks, i. e. either in the Conference building or in the Secretariat building, as at present planned, or extended, leaving it to them to see if it was architecturally possible.
(34) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) seconded Mr. Malik’s proposal
(35) The CHAIRMAN, supported by Mr. THOMSON (United States of America) did not think that the - 117 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   VI-8.2 H e a d q u a r t e r s  C o m m i t t e e Committee had enough information at its disposal to issue any instructions to the architects. Fur- ther, he would have preferred to avoid a vote at the present stage. He therefore proposed that the question of the Executive Board room be referred for study to the architects and the Secretariat, requesting them to report back to the Committee at the earliest possible moment.
(36) Seconding the Chairman’s proposal, Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil) asked if the possibility could also be studied of suppressing the Executive Board building for the time being, leaving it to the General Conference to decide, if it so desired, to have a small building constructed for the Execu- tive Board at a later stage. Agreed.
(37) The procedure proposed by the Chairman was approved. It was agreed that Mr. Breuer. in consultation with the Acting Director-General, would study the problem in the light of the Commit- tee’s debate and submit an alternative proposal to the Committee on Wednesday afternoon 25 Feb- ruary, at 3 p.m. The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m. SECOND MEETING Wednesday, 25 February 1953, at 3 p.m. Chairman Mr. PARRA-PEREZ ( Venezuela) PROPOSALS RELATING TO THE CONSTRUCTION OF ROOMS FOR THE EXECUTIVE BOARD (document HQ/5, doted 24 February 1953)
(1) Presenting document 8 HQ/5, the CHAIRMAN recalled that Mr. Breuer had been requested to prepare, in consultation with the Secretariat, a paper containing alternative proposals relating to accommodation for the Executive Board. Certain members of the Committee had objected to the construction of a separate building for the Executive Board, as planned by the architects, and had asked if it would be possible to incorporate the Executive Board rooms, either in the Secretariat building or in the General Conference area. Mr. Carneiro had reminded the Committee that the General Conference had envisaged the construction of the Headquarters building in different stages, and he had therefore proposed that the architects and the Secretariat consider the possibility of eliminating the Executive Board building for the time being, leaving it to the General Conference to decide, if it so desired, to have a small building for the Executive Board built at a later stage. The financial and architectural implications of the three proposals were given in document 8 HQ/5.
(2) Referring to the columns mentioned in paragraph (1) (d) on page 1 of document 8 HQ/5, Mr. de CLEMENTI (Italy) asked whether they were to go right through to the top of the building, or whether they stopped at the first floor, in which case it might be possible to incorporate the large room for the Executive Board in the Secretariat building on the second or third floors, for example. Second- ly, Mr. de Clementi objected to the statement in the last paragraph on page 3 that the French Authorities had approved the plan. He recalled that the French Authorities had approved the gen- eral proportions, but not the details of the plan.
(3) Replying to both questions, the ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that the columns went right up to the roof of the Secretariat building. It was true that the statement regarding the French Authorities was not strictly accurate and should be amended. - 118 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.