VI-9. I NINTH SESSION FIRST MEETING Thursday, 2 April 1953, at 10.30 a.m. Chairman: Mr. M ALIK (India)
(1) The CHAIRMAN announced with regret that Mr. Parra-Perez was unable to attend the meeting. ADOPTION OF AGENDA (9 HQ)
(2) In reply to a question from Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom), Mr. MONTAGNIER explained that Item 3 had been inserted in implementation of resolution 29. 3, adopted by the General Con- ference at its Seventh Session.
(3) The agenda was adopted. APPROVAL OF SUMMARY RECORDS a HQ/SR. I AND a HQ/SR. 2
(4) Referring to Mr. Breuer’s statement on page 3 of document 8 HQ/SR. 1, Mr. BOUCHARD (France) proposed that the words “there was no need to follow Gabriel’s composition too strictly” be amended to read: “it was not absolutely necessary to follow the architectural composition too strictly”.
(5) The amendment, seconded by Mr. THOMSON (United States of America) was adopted.
(6) Referring to the next sentence in the same statement by Mr. Breuer, Mr. BOUCHARD (France) proposed the insertion of a full stop after the words “really suitable for Unesco” and the deletion of the rest of the sentence “and which would serve as a starting point for adjacent new buildings constructed by the City of Paris”.
(7) The amendment was adopted.
(8) With the above amendments the minutes were approved. ITEM 1 - CONSIDERATION OF THE PRELIMINARY PLAN AND ESTIMATES OF THE COST OF CONSTRUCTION OF THE PERMANENT HEADQUARTERS BUILDING (presented by the three architects), AND ITEM 5 - EXPLANATORY NOTES FROM THE THREE ARCHITECTS (9 HQ/4)
(9) Speaking on behalf of the three architects, Mr. ZEHRFUSS announced that Mr. Paquet, Ins- pector-General of Historical Monuments in France, had approved the plans from the town planning point of view. The architects had done their best to respect the historical composition of the Ecole Militaire by closing the semi-circle on the Place de Fontenoy and by planning a building, measuring
28 metres 50 in height, which would not be higher than the other buildings in the group. Secondly, the “Y’‘-shaped building, in leaving a large open space towards the Avenue de Suffren, was intended to be symbolic of an organization working for the future; it would stand as a link between the in- tellectual quarter of Paris and the future extension of the City towards the West. Lastly, and al- though it had only struck the architects afterwards, the three-winged star of the main building would represent Unesco’s threefold activities, in the fields of education, science and culture. The General Conference building had been given the place of honour on the open space towards the West.
(10) Mr. Zehrfuss then gave a detailed explanation of the seventeen plans affixed to the wall and commented on the model of the new building standing in the middle of the room. He drew attention to the fact that, as a result of the Committee’s discussions at its last session, the Executive Board building had been brought closer to the Secretariat building, so that the hall from the Conference - 125 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   VI-9.1 H e a d q u a r t e r s  C o m m i t t e e area to the main lobby led also to the Executive Board room and its offices. The Unesco library was to be on the ground floor of the Secretariat building, with direct access from the main lobby and from outside. The restaurant, bar, cafeteria and Staff Association rooms were on the seventh floor with a view over Paris. There were terraces at the end of each wing of the building. A l l offices and workshops in the Secretariat building would have natural lighting. The large Conference hall and adjacent commission rooms would be air-conditioned and artificially lighted. The curved roof of the Conference area was to be of copper, as it was both very decorative and characteristic of Paris.
(11) Thanking Mr. Zehrfuss for his very clear explanations, the CHAIRMAN said that he was personally much impressed by the whole conception. He recalled Ruskin’s saying that Art must be not only decorative, but also functional. The architects appeared to have achieved that twofold aim and he wished to congratulate them warmly. He requested the Acting Director-General to explain the figures on pages 8 and 9 of document 9 HQ/4.
(12) Referring to page 9, the ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL asked members of the Committee to add the following figures after the grand total of 1,992, 900, 000 French francs: $5,694,000 (corresponding to 1,992,900,000 francs) $ 100,000 (cost of Mr. Beaudouin’s original project for the Fontenoy site) $ 80,000 (cost of the present project) $5,874,000
(13) He recalled that the cost of the intermediary project had been borne by the French Govern- ment. The difference between $5,874,000 and the estimated cost of $6, 000,000 was $126,000 which could be used for the establishment of a technical group within the Secretariat, to act as liaison agents between the Director-General and the architects, contractors and sub-contractors.
(14) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) hoped that document 9 HQ/4 would be revised before it was issued as an official Unesco document.
(15) While explaining that the document had been prepared under great pressure of time by the architects themselves, the ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL assured Mr. Cowell that it would be revised by the editors before being issued officially.
(16) Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil) noted that the Unesco building was to be slightly lower than one of the official buildings on the Place de Fontenoy, which was capped by a rather unattractive extra top storey. He asked the French representative if he did not think that the excrescence concerned might spoil the general harmony of the Place de Fontenoy.
(17) Secondly, he asked the architects if they had considered the possibility of having moving staircases in the Secretariat building, in order to avoid the inconvenience and waste of time caused by long queues waiting for lifts. Lastly, he asked them if they had taken every precaution to ensure that acoustics in the Conference building would be good, both for meetings and for concerts.
(18) Mr. BOUCHARD (France), replying to the first question, said that the part of the Ministry of Labour building slightly exceeding the regulation height was a provisional storey built of brick which could easily be removed by the time that the Unesco building was completed.
(19) Mr. BREUER stated that it was planned to have six lifts, four for passengers, one for freight and one half-freight, half-passenger lift. With that number of lifts, the building, containing 1, OOq officials, could be evacuated in 20 minutes. The general rule was that it should be possible to evacuate a building in half-an hour. Moving staircases, which could carry a very large number of people but moved very slowly, were more suitable for stations or large department stores than for office buildings. They were never used for more than two or three floors. He pointed out that the people on the first two floors of the Secretariat building could use the stairs.
(20) With regard to acoustics, the architects were convinced that the construction of the Confer- ence building would be favourable to acoustics. More exact computations relating to sound absorp- tion, distances, etc. would, however, have to be made. Knowledge of acoustics was still incom- plete, but a good acoustical engineer should be able to estimate the acoustical qualities of a building with 95% accuracy. Everything would be done to ensure the best possible acoustics in the Confer- ence building.
(21) If the architects so wished, Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) would be glad to arrange for - 126 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   H e a d q u a r t e r s  C o m m i t t e e VI-9. 1 them to examine the acoustics of the Royal Festival Hall in London, and to visit a new Government building with a moving staircase up to the first floor.
(22) With regard to document 9 HQ/4, Mr. Cowell thought that it would be strengthened if it re- corded the fact that the architects, in drawing up their plans, had made a very close study of the Secretariat and the General Conference as working organisms.
(23) If the architects so agreed, the CHAIRMAN suggested that the fact should be recorded in the Committee’s final report. Agreed. ITEM 2 -REPORT OF THE INTERNATIONAL PANEL OF FIVE ARCHITECTS (9 HQ/l)
(24) The ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL expressed the Secretariat’s satisfaction at Mr. Le Corbusier’s report. With the exception of Mr. Markelius, whose reply was still awaited, all the architects of the Panel had now approved the plan.
(25) Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil) recalling that considerable difficulties had been encountered at the outset, thought that the agreement reached was a most encouraging example of international team- work in such a difficult field as that of modern architecture.
(26) Mr. THOMSON (United States of America) thought it should be stressed in the Committee’s report that the agreement reached was not only an example of international teamwork, but also of international understanding and co-operation.
(27) It was agreed in incorporate the Panel’s report in the Committee’s report to the Conference, together with the comments made by Mr. Carneiro and Mr. Thomson.
(28) Returning to the question of internal communications, Mr. RAHIMTOOLA (Pakistan) thought it pointless to give further consideration to the question of a moving staircase, since it would be expensive to install and, if it was only to go up to the second floor, it would be unnecessary. He enquired as to the carrying capacity of the passenger lifts. Mr. Breuer replied that they would hold twenty-two persons.
(29) Mr. PATERNOTTE de la VAILLEE (Belgium) requested that steps should be taken to enable foreign firms to submit tenders for the material and equipment to be incorporated in the new Unesco building. Referring to page 9 of document 9 HQ/4, he asked whether exemption from customs duty applied in cases where tenders were invited for the work to be done.
(30) Seconding that request for information, Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) thought that some document should be produced for the Conference, outlining the working scheme for construction and the procedure to be followed.
(31) Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil) was struck by the relative modesty of the figure for painters and sculptors; also he thought the explanation of the second figure on page 9, namely 148,400,000 francs, too vague. He suggested that 20,000, 000 francs should be transferred to painters and sculptors either from the sum of 148,400,000 francs or from the margin of $126, 000 mentioned by the Acting Director -General.
(32) To meet the point made by Mr. Cowell, it was agreed that the Secretariat, in consultation with the architects, should present such a document for approval to the Headquarters Committee at a meeting to be held on 1 or 4 May. There would then be time to circulate the document to Member States before the Extraordinary Session of the General Conference.
(33) Mr. THOMSON (United States of America) was sure that the estimates had been prepared with the greatest care, but they were bound to be tentative. He asked the architects if they could give the Committee any idea of the area of uncertainty.
(34) Mr. ZEHRFUSS replied that a margin of 10% for unforeseen expenditure had been allowed on each item, so that, unless there were some unexpected and spectacular rise in the cost of labour and materials, the estimates could be counted as a maximum. - 127 ; Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   VI-9.2 H e a d q u a r t e r s  C o m m i t t e e
(35) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) asked if the architects could supply estimates for the cost of the Executive Board building as now planned, so that the Committee and the Conference could dis- cuss the retention or suppression of the Board building with the relevant estimates.
(36) Mr. BREUER had not brought the figures with him, but pointed out that the cost could be as- certained by deducting the cost of the Secretariat and Conference buildings from that of those buildings plus the Executive Board building in the latest plan. He would produce the figures for the afternoon meeting.
(37) Mr. DAVIES (Australia) suggested that the cost of the additional building for the Executive Board should be annexed to the Committee’s report. Agreed, ITEM 3 - ESTIMATES OF THE COST OF EQUIPMENT AND MATERIAL (9 HQ/2)
(38) The ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out that an immediate decision had to be taken on the sum of $430,000 for the telephone system, as the latter would have to be installed at the same time as the building was being constructed.
(39) In reply to a question from Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom), Mr. MONTAGNIER stated that the telephone system would be the same as that at present used in Unesco House. The inventory value of the latter was $400, 000.
(40) Mr. BREUER explained that the architects had had great difficulty in estimating the cost of furnishings, etc., as they were dependent upon many different factors and were liable to vary by
50%. They had been obliged to take the average of furnishing costs for other buildings which they had planned, and believed that they could furnish Unesco’s building for the sum of $400, 000, ex- cluding mobile furnishing for the offices of the Secretariat and delegates.
(41) After thanking the architects for their assistance in the discussions, the CHAIRMAN adjourned the meeting until the afternoon. The meeting rose at 1. 15 p.m. SECOND MEETING Thursday, 2 April 1953, at 3 p. m. Chairman: Mr. MALIK (India) ITEM 3 - ESTIMATES OF THE COST OF EQUIPMENT AND MATERIAL (9 HQ/2) (continued)
(1) The CHAIRMAN recalled that the Committee had not had time, at its morning meeting, to con- sider the question of financing purchases of equipment and material, and he asked the Acting Dir- ector-Genera1 to present the Secretariat’s views.
(2) The ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that the Secretariat had contemplated once again seeking the assistance of the French Government. Since part of the material would have to be re- placed after a certain number of years owing to normal wear and tear, it would not be possible to consider such a long-term loan as that already granted by France to cover the cost of building. A loan over a period of fifteen years could, for example, be envisaged. On the other hand, the Act- ing Director-General emphasized that about half of the material included in the architects’ estimate, - 128 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.