III-6 P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s SIXTH PLENARY MEETING Friday, 3 July 1953, at 3.30 p. m. President: Dr. SARVEPALLI RADHAKRISHNAN (India) later: H. E. PIERRE DUPUY (Canada) C O N T E N T S Greetings to the University of Salamanca . . , . . . Draft resolution submitted by the United States dele- gation on the withdrawal of Member States from the Organization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Discussion on the report of the Headquarters Commit- t e e . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Appointment of additional members to the Headquar- ters Committee , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Resolution on the International Commission for a Sci- entific and Cultural History of Mankind . . . . . . Report of the Credentials Committee . . . . . . . .
96 GREETINGS TO THE UNIVERSITY OF SALMANCA
(1) The PRESIDENT - This morning, at the meeting of the General Committee, it was recalled that the University of Salamanca in Spain celebrates this year the 700th anniversary of its foundation.
(2) Salamanca, ranking with the Universities of Oxford, Paris and Bologna among the most ancient and illustrious in the world as representatives of Western culture, is the source which has inspired scores of universities in the New World. It deserves to be recalled at this moment by the General Conference. It was in Salamanca that Columbus lectured on his discoveries and in its classrooms the Copernican system was first taught. Its civil and international law studies were for many years famous in Europe and attracted large numbers of teachers and students.
(3) Such a commemoration cannot be overlooked by us and the General Committee has asked me to propose to you that we should request the Director -General to send to the University of Salamanca our greetings on this occasion and express the hope that it may long serve as a symbol of univer- sality and freedom of the human spirit in the world. DRAFT RESOLUTION SUBMITTED BY THE UNITED STATES DELEGATION ON THE WITHDRAWAL OF MEMBER STATES FROM THE ORGANIZATION
(4) The PRESIDENT - The draft proposal presented by the delegation of the United States of America is now in the hands of the members in all three languages (2 XC/DR/8). The proposal reads: “The General Conference requests the Director-General and the Executive Board to submit to Member States, in time for consideration at the Eighth Session, the necessary amendments to the Constitution to provide for withdrawal from membership in the Organization”. Would you like to discuss the proposal today or defer it till tomorrow? We shall take it tomorrow. DISCUSSION ON THE REPORT OF THE HEADQUARTERS COMMITTEE
(5) The PRESIDENT - We now come to the Headquarters question. Mr. Parra-Perez, of Venezuela, as the Chairman of the Committee, will speak.
(6) Mr. PARRA-PEREZ (Venezuela) (Chairman of the Headquarters Committee) - (Translation - 76- Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s III-6 from the French) Mr. President, gentlemen, the Headquarters Committee did me the honour of appointing me its Chairman, and it is on behalf of the Committee that I now speak. For fear of mistranslation I am going to address you in French; but I have another motive as well. The first words I have to speak from this rostrurn are words of tribute to the French Government and the Paris municipal authorities for their generosity to Unesco and for the spirit of harmonious goodwill they have shown so markedly throughout negotiations which I will not call difficult, but which have been very laborious. I am unable to convey to the French Government the thanks it deserves, but I believe I am interpreting the feelings of the whole Conference by paying it a tribute, and I am sure that the President will express these sentiments at the close of our discussion. There are also various individuals to whom I think we should express our appreciation at the beginning of our deliberations. I should first like to refer to our friend, Mr. Torres Bodet, one of whose dreams - and I know this because he confided it to several of his friends, among whom I had the honour to be included - was to see the Unesco Headquarters built and the installation of Unesco. Unfortunately he was unable to realize his dream. Beside Mr. Torres Bodet I should like to pay a tribute to the Acting Director-General, Dr. Taylor, who has earned Unesco’s gratitude for taking over the heavy succession from Torres Bodet, and particularly for the successful negotiations he has conducted over the building of a home for the Organization. Everyone on our Committee has worked with a resolute will; I extend our thanks to them as well. But I should like to refer to the special part played by Mr. Valeur, the French delegate on the Committee. He maintained the contacts between the French authorities, the Committee and the Unesco administration, and displayed throughout energy and intelligence, as well as outstanding and praiseworthy skill. I would also refer to the share taken in our work, first, by my distinguished predecessor, Mr. Thomson, as Chairman of the Committee, and by our Rapporteur, Mr. Gardner Davies, whose report I am going to lay before you. Among the Secretariat, Mr. Montagnier and Mr. Leguen also deserve our gratitude for their excellent work.
(7) Gentlemen, on behalf of the Headquarters Committee I have the honour to present to you two reports. I shall not read them to you for they are somewhat lengthy, but they are before you. The documents relating to every aspect of the Committee’s work have been circulated to you. At its last two Ordinary Sessions the Conference was informed of the progress of this work, and docu- ment 2 XC/3, dated 17 April 1953, was forwarded to the governments. This document contains several annexes giving figures which you have been able to examine at leisure and the architects’ own opinion on the proposed building.
(8) In the Committee’s Supplementary Report, which is an addendum to that mentioned above, you will find, as Annex I, the draft lease prepared in consultation with the French Government. In Annex II there is also a document relating to the gifts and works of art which we all hope will decorate our building. Lastly, Annex III contains suggestions relating to the execution of the Head- quarters project, including the formation of a special office responsible for putting the work in hand and seeing it through. As I have said, I will not stop to read these various documents to you; you will have an opportunity to discuss them. I only wish to read out the Committee’s last resolution, submitted to you as a draft. It reads as follows: “The General Conference,
1. Authorizes the Director-General (a) To accept the offer of the site made by the French Government and to negotiate and exe- cute a lease relating thereto. (b) To accept the offer of a loan from the French Government and subject to any directions given by the General Conference to work out with the French authorities a schedule for advance and reimbursements and to negotiate and execute any necessary contracts relating thereto. (c) To proceed with the construction of the Permanent Headquarters of Unesco on the basis of the preliminary plan at a total cost not to exceed $6,000,000, this sum to include all irrecoverable expenditure made up to date and administrative and other costs. (d) To purchase, at a cost not to exceed $1, 080, 000, the additional equipment and material needed to put the building in working order. (e) To appoint Messrs. Breuer, Nervi and Zehrfuss as the architects to be entrusted with the work and to establish such services within the Secretariat as he may require.
2. Authorizes the Director-General to establish, after consultation with the Headquarters Com- mittee, a Committee of Art Advisers to: (a) Prepare for the Director-General a general plan for the artistic decoration of the Head- quarters building, so as to ensure a harmonious integration of decorative elements in the architectural whole. (b) Submit to the Director-General the names of artists who might be commissioned to exe- cute works of art to occupy positions shown in this general plan, either with financial - 77 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   III-6 P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s contributions from certain Member States or within the budget provided for this item in the building estimates. (c) Examine all offers of works of art made by Member States or international organizations and make recommendations to the Director-General as to which offers it would be advi- sable to accept or decline.
3. Authorizes the Director-General to ask Member States whether they wish to present the Or- ganization with building materials, furniture and supplies for the furnishings and decoration of the Permanent Headquarters, in accordance with the general plan established.
4. Entrusts the Director-General in the light of such advice as he may seek in accordance with the terms of the present resolution with the responsibility of accepting or declining all such offers.
5. Decides that the Headquarters Committee shall be continued until the construction of the Per- manent Headquarters Building is completed, to assist the Director-General in an advisory capacity. The Headquarters Committee is authorized to convene and consult with the Inter- national Panel of Five Architects if and when it deems necessary.
6. Requests the Director-General to make a progress report to the Eighth Ordinary Session of the General Conference. ”
(9) That is the draft resolution which the Headquarters Committee instructs me to submit for your consideration. You are requested to study it attentively and to adopt it with such amendments or additions as you may see fit.
(10) The ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL - I am not going to take up the time of the Conference by thanking all the people concerned who need thanking. You will recall that, on the day when the Conference opened, I indicated my sentiments concerning the building and expressed my thanks to the French Government. I certainly cannot allow this opportunity to pass without telling you that, in my opinion, the Headquarters Committee has been certainly as hard working a Committee as I have ever had to do with during my time at Unesco. They really need thanking. There is one small point that I would call to your attention that could arise in connexion with the draft resolution. The draft resolution has just been read to you by the Chairman of the Headquarters Committee. You will note that in document 2 XC/3, Addendum 1, page 3, sub-paragraph 3 of the draft resolution “Authorizes the Director-General to proceed with the construction of the Permanent Headquarters”, and so on. Out of an abundance of caution, and because we have very excellent legal counsel here, I must make this point. The lease which the French Government is giving us is such a generous one that it calls for a slight change in their law. Hence, the lease must be ratified by the Assemblee Nationale. That will, as you know, take time because you cannot ring up Parliament and say, “Please pass this law for me tomorrow”. Now the French Government has indicated to us that they will give us written assurances that, in the case of the remote possibility that the lease is not ratified before we have to start building and spend money on this building, they would return to us and reimburse Unesco. I want you to realize that all the small points have been thought out, and the French Gov- ernment has agreed to give satisfaction on everything. I can only say one other thing, I sincerely hope you pass this resolution so that Unesco can have its permanent home in Paris.
(11) Mr. VALEUR (France) - (Translation from the French) Mr. President, my task has been made very easy by the words just spoken by Mr. Parra-Perez, Chairman of the Committee, and by the Acting Director-General about the steps taken by the French Government to enable the Sec- retariat and the Headquarters Committee to present concrete proposals today for the construction of Unesco’s permanent Headquarters in Paris. I should like to mention that, at the Seventh Session of the General Conference, the French delegation, in the name of the French Government, under- took certain formal engagements connected with the decision to build the Headquarters in Paris. I can now inform you - or rather confirm to you, seeing that Mr. Parra-Perez and the Acting Director-General have already informed you - that the French Government has scrupulously car- ried out all its engagements.
(12) The first was to put the site in the Place de Fontenoy at the disposal of Unesco. I may say it is one of the finest in Paris in the magnificent setting of the Ecole Militaire. I would remind you that this site had previously been accepted by the Sixth Session of the General Conference; it is at present occupied by army buildings. Here you will allow me to pay a tribute to the army, even in presence of this pacific assembly, for as you know it is not always easy to obtain concessions from the army for civilian purposes. The army, however, understood the importance of our request and co-operated in the common task with laudable zeal. The removal of their military installations has already begun and will be completed by 1 October. At that date the Ministry for Reconstruction - in this context I had better call it the Ministry for Destruction - will undertake at its own expense the demolition of the buildings on the site. The demolition will be completed and the site entirely - 78 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s III-6 cleared by 1 January, the date on which Unesco, with its distinguished architects, can begin the first work of levelling the ground for the building. With reference to the very pertinent remark made by the Acting Director-General about the possibility that the French Parliament may still not have ratified the Headquarters Agreement and the lease annexed to it before 1 January, I can give you a formal assurance on behalf of my Government that we shall give Unesco all the necessary guarantees against the risks entailed by deciding to begin building before ratification of the agree- ment, though such risks seem to me completely illusory. The French Government would not have gone to the lengths it has in its engagements if it had not been reasonably certain that in the end Parliament would ratify the Headquarters Agreement and the lease, which necessitates certain amendments in the French law on long leases.
(13) The French Government’s other engagement related to the loan we are making to Unesco to enable it to construct its Headquarters. We have given a general undertaking to grant Unesco a loan covering total building costs. As the ceiling fixed for these costs by the General Conference at its Seventh Session was $6, 000, 000 - that is, 2, 100, 000, 000 francs at the present rate of ex- change, the French Parliament last December voted this sum to enable us to meet our obligation in this respect.
(14) In the meantime the Secretariat has asked us for an additional guarantee of 400, 000, 000 francs, that is $1, 080, 000 to equip the building. The French Government thought that these equipment costs could be treated as building costs and that our undertaking to grant Unesco a loan covering building costs should therefore apply to equipment costs also. France will thus lend Unesco 2,100,000,000 francs, repayable in thirty annual instalments, for the construction of its Headquarters and, in addition, 400,000,000 francs repayable in twenty annual instalments for equipment expenses.
(15) Further, I would mention that Unesco has pointed out that, before it is completely installed in the new Headquarters, it will be difficult to make the double payment of rent for the Hate1 Majestic where it is now housed, and the first annual sum repayable on the loan from the French Government. The latter has therefore agreed that these first repayments shall not begin until the year that the Unesco services are installed in the new Headquarters, that is to say, the first re- payments will only begin in 1957. The sum of ZOO, 000, 000 francs, representing the portion required for the work during 1953, is now at Unesco’s disposal. I hesitate to use commercial terms before a highly cultural assembly, but frankly I think the non-academic expression that the loan is not bad business for Unesco is permissible on this occasion.
(16) I would also like to mention that, in agreement with the Headquarters Committee, we have asked the Ministry for Reconstruction to have the architects’ estimates checked by qualified mem- bers of its building department. The results of this investigation are very reassuring, as the Ministry experts consider that it would doubtless be possible to construct Unesco House for a sum appreciably below 2, 100,000, 000 francs. This is in no way a criticism of the architects, who were quite right to allow themselves a margin of safety.
(17) The third engagement undertaken by the French Government relates to reimbursing Unesco for the costs of the second preliminary plan, as it has not been possible to carry this out because the French Government, after giving Unesco permission to build on the Porte Dauphine site, with- drew its offer of this site. It is therefore right that the French Government should reimburse this sum to Unesco. It has not yet done so because we have not yet received the exact figure for the expenditure, but I reiterate here, on behalf of the French Government, our undertaking to make this repayment to Unesco.
(18) Our fourth undertaking was to remove all restrictions normally imposed on buildings in the architectural setting designed by Gabriel for the Ecole Militaire. In this regard I must pay a tribute alike to the commissioned architects, to the Panel of Five International Architects, and to the appropriate French Government Departments, that is, the Ministry for Reconstruction, the Seine Prefecture and the Directors of the Department of Fine Arts, for reaching agreement on the type of architecture to use on this site. The only request made by the Sites Commission, as well as the Directorate of Architecture, is that the architects should study the Conference building further with a view to making it more imposing.
(19) In the circumstances, Mr. President, the French delegation, the French Government and, I make so bold as to say, the whole French people await your vote with complete confidence. This vote will enable Unesco to be installed in a building worthy of it, worthy of its services and worthy of its competent and conscientious staff. Moreover, the construction in the heart of Paris, in one of its most beautiful districts, of a handsome building to house Unesco is an act of faith in the future of our Organization.
(20) The PRESIDENT - I call upon Mr. Gropius, Chairman of the International Panel of Five Architects.
(21) Mr. GROPIUS, Chairman of the International Panel of Five Architects. Mr. President, under - 79 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   III-6 P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s the date of 23 March 1953, the International Panel of Five Architects placed their report on the new Headquarters building at Place de Fontenoy with the Unesco Headquarters Committee after a series of fruitful working meetings with the architects. This our report sums up as follows with these words: “Intelligent and imaginative town planning and a balanced architectural design have provided a solution which not only meets the requirements of Unesco but is also a worthy expression of modern architecture. It is indeed an achievement”.
(22) These words characterize our opinion as professional advisers about the project in its present phase of preliminary design. We feel honoured that the Headquarters Committee, in its report of
17 April 1953, under No. 2 propose to keep our services after this first preliminary phase has been concluded. The Panel advisers would gladly accept this further assignment as advisers and will clarify later the scope of their responsibilities.
(23) Mr. JOCHAMOWITZ (Peru) - (Translation from the French) Mr. President, delegates, for the same reasons as Mr. Parra-Perez I also wish to speak in French, although it is easier for me to speak in my own language, Spanish.
(24) Until last year I had the honour of taking part in the work of the Headquarters Committee as its Vice-Chairman. After the Seventh Session of the Conference I could not continue, as Peru was no longer a member of the Committee, but I still followed its work very closely and took a very great interest in it for various reasons. I did so, first, because of my profession: I am an engin- eer and I am greatly interested in architecture and actively concerned in it in my country. I there- fore felt in close touch with the work of this Committee. Moreover, I have always considered that Unesco’s future headquarters will be of enormous importance to it. This is a decisive step of the greatest moment to the future of our Organization. I wish accordingly today to express my very great appreciation of the work of the Headquarters Committee and to pay a tribute in particular, to Mr. Thomson, its Chairman until last year, and to Mr. Parra-Perez, who has had the honour of guiding its heavy task to a successful conclusion. The word “heavy” is not strong enough, for this Committee has had to overcome numerous difficulties and to solve problems of every sort: techni- cal problems, legal problems and the problems of selecting people and of interpretation. I do not think any Committee has ever had a more complex and difficult task. That is why I whole-heartedly congratulate it and believe it deserves the Organization’s warmest thanks.
(25) We have before us the results of its work in the form of several draft resolutions. I have carefully studied them and I am going to make some observations which, I should mention in ad- vance, are unimportant: they are formal matters, but it is in the hope of seeing this document perfect that I come to this rostrum to make them.
(26) First, in the principal draft resolution, which is the authorization given to the Director-Gen- eral, page 3 of document 2 XC/3, Addendum 1, there is a paragraph conveying Unesco’s thanks to the French Government. I have already had occasion more than once to say how much we are indebted to the French Government for the immense service it is rendering us by giving us a site (and how magnificent a site!) and in granting us money for the construction of the building, repay- able in thirty years; it is a gift that has never before been made to any institution in the world. That is why, when the document says “Recalling the generous offer made by the French Govern- ment . . . ” I think the phrase inadequate. I suggest that it should at least say “the very generous offer . . . ” so as to emphasize that the gift made to us is tremendous.
(27) Then, in the same document, paragraph 3 reads: “TO proceed with the construction of the Permanent Headquarters of Unesco on the basis of the preliminary plan . . ."’ etc. I cannot find a’ categorical statement in this document saying that the preliminary plan prepared by the three architects, Messrs. Breuer, Nervi and Zehrfuss is approved. It says ” . . . the construction on the basis of the preliminary plan . . ..", which is completely vague. On this basis an entirely different building from that presented to us could be built. In addition, this preliminary plan is only one stage in the construction. A final plan must now be prepared, showing exactly what is to be produced. Obviously there are calculations to be worked out and building materials to be sel- ected; scale plans of the structure must be prepared and a mass of detail. I therefore propose that this clause be amended as follows: “TO approve the preliminary project for the Permanent Headquarters of Unesco presented by the three architects Messrs. Breuer, Nervi and Zehrfuss, and to adopt the final project and to proceed with the construction . . . “, and then the phrase: “at a total cost not to exceed $6, 000, 000, this sum to include . . .”
(28) So much for the first draft-resolution. I now pass to the draft lease. In Article 5 there is a reference to the price which surprises me: “The present lease is agreed subject to the payment of a nominal annual rent of 1,000 francs, to be paid in advance on 1 January of each year to the Caisse du Receveur . . . ” I find the word “nominal” superfluous, even embarrassing. What does “nominal” mean? The exact meaning is “in name only without the real advantages”. This is not the case. There is a real rent; obviously it is a nominal rent if the figure of 1,000 francs a year is taken - 80 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s III-6 into account, but in a legal instrument the word “nominal” is superfluous, particularly as the draft lease says, “authorizes the Director-General to accept the offer of the site made by the French Government and to negotiate and execute a lease relating thereto”. Can one execute a lease with a nominal rent ? I think not. I am not a lawyer, but I must say that I am surprised. I therefore propose simply to delete the word “nominal”. The text will then read as follows: “The present lease is agreed subject to the payment of an annual rent of 1,000 francs, to be paid . . . ”
(29) I accept all the rest, which is excellently drafted. The Committee has considered all the as- pects and details of the question with the greatest care. It is a magnificent document.
(30) All the same, I should like to make a brief observation on Addendum 1, Annex III, which concerns the establishment of an office to ensure that the building be completed according to schedule and within the financial limits. The annex proposes that it should be known as the Head- quarters Office. It seems to me that this title is too vague. “Office” is a somewhat abstract term and the title should bear some relation to the work it has to do. I therefore propose that it should be called the “Headquarters Building Office”. The office will be extremely important, and its Director, who will be known as the “Building Director” or “Director of the Technical Office” or “Project Director” will be entirely responsible for the building to Unesco, as the text shows, which is as it should be. I feel, however, that this responsibility - indispensable though it is - needs - some supervision.
(31) In No. 6 of the draft resolution, the Director-General is requested to make a progress report, on the basis of the project itself, to the Eighth Ordinary Session of the General Conference; but it seems to me that since the Executive Board is the principal organ of Unesco and should be kept informed of all the activities of the Organization, it also should be able to follow closely what the Building Office is doing. For this reason I propose that the membership of the Office should include, in addition to the personnel proposed on page 14 of this document, in Addendum 1, a representative of the Executive Board enjoying the full confidence of the Organization and capable, in view of the purely technical character of all the work of the Unesco Headquarters Building Office, of forming an opinion on technical questions.
(32) Mr. SALAT (Germany) - (Translation from the French) I should like first of all to associate myself, on behalf of the German Federal Government, with the tributes paid by previous speakers to the Headquarters Committee. Since Germany is a neighbour of France we have had the oppor- tunity of following, not only by means of documents but through people who have taken part in it, the excellent work accomplished in the past year by the Headquarters Committee. We agree with- out any reservation to the findings that have been put before us.
(33) In the second place, I should like to express the hope that we shall soon receive precise in- formation about the conditions in which governments that are members of Unesco can offer gifts to the Organization, either by equipping a room or an office or by presenting works of art. My Gov- ernment asks nothing better than to associate itself in this common task. My reason for asking to speak is, however, a psychological one. There are some things that are entirely natural and reasonable and one of these is that the Headquarters of Unesco should be in France, and in Paris. On solemn occasions things which are natural and go without saying are sometimes none the less pleasurable to speak about. Maternal love is natural, but a child is none the less glad to be able to tell his mother of the gratitude he feels. I therefore wish, on behalf of the German Federal Gov- ernment, to thank France and the people of France for their generous gift, and to associate my Government at this moment with the general tribute that has been paid to France. In our opinion, there is only one city which could be the Headquarters of Unesco; it is Paris, the heart of France, of Europe and of the world.
(34) Mrs. HEFFELFINGER (United States of America) - Mr. President and fellow delegates, it gives me great satisfaction to be able to speak here, not only because I speak for my Government, but also because it makes it possible to ensure that at least one woman has spoken from this plat- form during the Second Extraordinary Session of the General Conference.
(35) The discussion in which we are now engaged is a particularly pleasant one, since it concerns the last act required to give Unesco the permanence we have all sought. In London, in 1945, when Unesco had no home, it was France, through its great leader Leon Blum - to whose memory I wish to pay a tribute - that extended to us the hospitality not only of this great land but also of this very beautiful and friendly city of Paris, so long the intellectual citadel of liberty and culture.
(36) Throughout these first difficult years, Unesco secured its place in the lives of free people. Paris has provided inspiration not only for all of us in the General Conference, but also for the Secretariat in its daily labours. The hospitality of the French Government has enabled the roots of this Organization to take hold throughout the world. It is again because of the generosity of the French Government that at last a permanent home has been found in a new and inspiring structure which will become a world symbol of the values and aims for which Unesco stands. - 81 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   III-6 P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s
(37) It is with these deep sentiments of appreciation and friendship for France and faith in Unesco that the United States delegation wishes to be included among those who support this resolution.
(38) We recognize the careful efforts which have been made to check the accuracy of the estimates and other figures which have been presented to us. Obviously no one of us can commit our govern- ments to an unknown higher expenditure. Nor do we wish a situation to arise in which Unesco might make a further call on the generosity of the French Government, which has been so repeatedly demonstrated. We presume that the completion of full working drawings will make possible more precise cost estimates. Should they exceed the figures mentioned in this resolution, it is expected that suitable action will be taken to keep the cost within the sum of $6,000,000, plus $1,080,000, or a total of $7,080, 000.
(39) Although this is not the time to discuss future budgets, I think it well to observe that the bud- get for the years 1955 and 1956 would be the logical occasion to absorb some of the impact of the building costs. This is possible because the 1954 appropriation for Part I of the budget can be substantially reduced as a result of the fact that there will be no General Conference in 1955 and probably a Conference at Headquarters in 1956. Since, however, the French Government has generously offered to obtain deferment of the loan repayment until 1957, the Executive Board might give consideration to the desirability of establishing a building reserve fund in the 1955-1956 budget, to which would be allocated the savings made possible by the reduction of Conference costs in 1955 and 1956.
(40) Again may I be permitted to repeat the gratification the United States delegation has in heartily supporting this resolution. May this structure symbolize the conscience of mankind.
(41) Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium) - (Translation from the French) The Belgian delegation would like to associate itself whole-heartedly with everything that has been said at this rostrum on the draft resolution we are discussing. When we came to examine the projects submitted to us, we felt in the Department of Education, to which I belong, that it was essential to obtain the opinion of qualified people. We therefore went to a great Belgian architect, a Director of the Brussels Higher National School of Architecture and the Decorative Arts and the creator of a building inaugurated barely two or three weeks ago. It is something that obviously does not resemble the permanent Headquarters of Unesco: the Ostend Casino. Those of you who visit Ostend can satisfy yourselves from the Digue or by entering the premises that the Casino is an admirable architect- ural work. However, I do not want to go on singing the praises of this building, I simply want to tell you that the architect to whom we went is a highly qualified and experienced man who knows personally all the great architects who collaborated in preparing the project now submitted to us. We also asked Mr. Stynen to look carefully at the estimates, so that we could be sure that Unesco’s dollars would not be wasted and that the French Government’s generous offer and its big loan would be used to good purpose. If you will allow me, I shall read you an extract from the letter we received in reply to our request.
(42) “I consider”, Mr. Stynen says, “the preliminary plan submitted for the approval of the Member States to be excellent, no less for its proposed solution of the town planning problem than from the architectural point of view. The architecture, in my opinion, reflects the spirit of Unesco and answers its needs: I regard the solution put forward for the separation of pedestrian and motor traffic to be of vital importance”. We who risk our lives every day coming to Unesco will certainly appreciate this point. The layout of the Secretariat buildings is perfect and ensures that the lighting and the insolation will be of the best. The plenary meeting hall constitutes a solution in extraordi- narily good taste, its lines are wonderfully pure and its construction precise and perfect. The pre- liminary plan can be regarded as a first-rate piece of work andworthy of its object. At the same time, an examination of the acoustics of the main rooms is indispensable, as is also investigation into the acoustic isolation of the offices, their air conditioning and their artificial lighting. I personally should like to stress the air conditioning, for I have often suffered in this building, where I have been a frequest visitor for a long time, from the insufficiency of the air conditioning, and you are also suffering at this moment as much as I am. I will resume my quotation with a refer- ence to the estimates: “The unit prices, cited in the rough estimate of building costs transmitted in Addendum 1 of document 2 XC/2 are almost the same as those ruling in Belgium”. These prices are not unduly high having regard to the quality of the work proposed. You can therefore have an absolutely easy conscience when we propose, on behalf of the Belgian Government, the adoption of the draft resolution before us.
(43) At the same time, Mr. President, I hope I shall be allowed to say that, after having myself carefully examined the text of the draft resolution, I should like, while associating myself with the amendments suggested by the delegate of Peru, to propose a slight modification, a good deal less important than that put forward by my Peruvian colleague. It is a question of a small formal modi- fication on page 4 of document 2 XC/3, Addendum 1, paragraph 5, which reads as follows: “Decides - 82 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s III-6 that the Headquarters Committee shall be continued until the construction of the Permanent Headquarters building is completed, etc. ” I propose to substitute: “Decides that the Headquarters Committee shall be continued until the permanent Headquarters building has been completed and handed over to the Organization . . ."
(44) I should like to bring up another question, without attaching any very special weight to it. In Addendum 1, page 14, we are given a list of the posts contemplated for the Headquarters Office, which our Peruvian colleague quite reasonably proposes to call the “Technical Office” or “Perm- anent Unesco Headquarters Building Office”. I wonder, and I put my question in no acrimonious spirit, whether it is necessary to have an Assistant Director alongside the Project Director. I simply raise the question; perhaps someone will be good enough to answer it.
(45) I shall conclude, Mr. President, like those of my colleagues who have already spoken, by proposing the enthusiastic adoption of the plan before us. As Mr. Valeur said just now, and as the United States delegate repeated, it constitutes an act of faith in Unesco. France, in making her generous gesture, has shown her confidence in the future of Unesco, and the Belgian delegation entirely and cordially associates itself with this confidence.
(46) Mr. ANDREWS (Union of South Africa) - Mr. President and fellow delegates, I am sure, taking into account the very lengthy document that is before us, that we are all deeply indebted to the Chairman of the Committee for the explanatory statement which he made in amplification of the report itself. This has been a very hurried session, and naturally so. It has been a business session, and we have not really had the time for deliberation and consideration which some of these matters warrant, particularly the one before us. On that account, I would repeat, I, for my part, and my delegation, are deeply indebted to the Chairman of the Committee for the explanatory state- ment introducing this draft resolution. Like my colleagues who have preceded me, I would too, once again - as my delegation has done before - express to the French Government our deep ap- preciation of its very generous offer and of the very easy terms which it has advanced to our Organization.
(47) On another point I would endorse the view of our United States colleague, who expressed the firm hope that the total cost of the building would not exceed $6,000, 000. That is a sum which all along we have insisted should be the ceiling of the building. But my remarks, Mr. President, are related not so much to paragraph 3 of the General Conference resolution in document 2 XC/3 Add- endum 1, page 3; they are directed to paragraph 4, page 3, of the same document, which author- izes the Director-General “To purchase, at a cost not to exceed $1, 080, 000, the additional equip- ment and material needed to put the building in working order. ” We all know that additional equip- ment and material are needed for the building, apart from the building itself. Indeed, that consi- deration has been taken into account in previous reports. But we have never known precisely what that estimate would amount to. Had this resolution come before us without that item in it in rela- tion to that very large amount, more than one-sixth of the capital cost of the building, my delega- tion would have known how to proceed on the basis of its instructions. However, in the short space of time in which we have had this report before us, we have had no opportunity - and I wonder whether any other delegation in this Conference has had the opportunity - of consulting our Govern- ment (and that means consulting the Treasury) as to whether this sum is acceptable from the point of view of voting it at this Extraordinary Session. I would therefore suggest - there may be tech- nical difficulties - that this is a particular matter that might very reasonably be considered at our next session at Montevideo. It would give us time to get details of this particular estimate of $1,080,000, and would give our governments time to contemplate the authorization or to offer such comments as they wished. My suggestion would therefore be to this Conference, as a constructive suggestion, that perhaps we could omit consideration of this particular paragraph in the resolution. If however, sir, for technical reasons it is necessary to authorize this amount here and now, then I must state in all frankness that my delegation would have to reserve its position in relation to the resolution as a whole.
(48) Count de CASA ROJAS (Spain) - (Translation from the Spanish) Mr. President, fellow delegates, as the latest arrival in this House and one who is not very familiar with the details of the construction of the projected new building, I should like to ask for certain particulars rather than to raise any objections to the draft resolution now before us.
(49) In the first place, I should like to express once again, on behalf of the Spanish delegation, our very special gratitude to France for its generous contribution to the success of an undertaking on which we have long been engaged, and our congratulations to the Committee which has carried out the preparations for this work with such painstaking attention to detail.
(50) I speak rather from the point of view of the man in the street, for I am not a technician and have no special legal knowledge. I do, however, read most carefully the documents submitted to - 83 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   III-6 P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s us, and I should like, as I already said, not to raise objections but to make certain requests reg- arding some points of the proposal that has been put before us.
(51) Section 1 states that the total estimates amount to $6, 054, 000, thus exceeding the original estimate by $54,000, but that it is believed that economies can be effected and that it will conse- quently not be necessary to exceed the original ceiling figure of $6, 000, 000. My white hair and my many years’ experience of life and building have led me to the conviction that economies are never effected in estimates of construction, but that, on the contrary, further expenses are always incurred. We are all happy and eager about the projected Headquarters building. But we all make certain mental reservations regarding the problem of expenditure though perhaps they remain latent in this moment of happiness. We can hardly deny the usefulness and desirability of the building. Governments which, like my own, are short of foreign currency have to be prudent and very careful not to undertake commitments they may be unable to meet later on. If my memory serves me Mrs. Heffelfinger - and I take this opportunity to welcome the presence of a woman on the United States delegation - made a vague allusion to the future generosity of the French Govern- ment, suggesting that if we found our commitments too heavy that Government would even go beyond its present generosity and would allow us a longer period for payment. We ought to know, however, what lies ahead of us, and if the sum of $6, 000,000 is to be allocated proportionally among us, the proportion should be established for all the various countries, SO that delegations may have an opportunity of expressing their agreement.
(52) I will now take the various points of the resolution one by one. The establishment of a Head- quarters Office, to supervise the contractor as it were, seems to me a very judicious measure; but one of the paragraphs - which I will not quote since you have all read it - suggests that with a contractor the expenses always exceed the estimates, whereas with the aid of this Office, and thanks to its vigilance, that will not happen here. In my opinion exactly the contrary is true: the only practical way of ensuring that the expenses will not exceed the specified amount is to agree on a definite sum with a contractor. I am not opposing the establishment of the Office, but it is only to be expected that this Office will lead to fresh expenditure rather than to economies, since it will find that the colour is not pleasing or that the ventilation is unsatisfactory, or it will find fault with the work that is going on. When a building is erected for a fixed sum the result is different. I should like to mention as an example the Brazilian Treasury Building, which is one of the glories of Rio de Janeiro and, perhaps, of the whole world. When it was planned, an estimate was sub- mitted, and the Minister of that day said: “For me, it can be five times as big, but I don’t want to hear more about it until the work is finished”. It was completed as he had ordered without any increase in cost, because no alterations were made afterwards.
(53) I should like to assure France once again of our gratitude for its generosity in relieving US of the double burden of paying rent for this building and the amortization charges until 1 January 1957. I think, however, that the generosity would have been more complete - I apologize for stressing this - if the moratorium had been extended until our entry into possession of the new building. The date fixed for entry is 1 January 1957, but that is a myth, an illusion, a dream. We do not know whether the building will be finished by then; the period may prove insufficient. If the date on which repayment is to begin could be left open and arranged to fit in with the conclusion of our lease here, that would be fairer and more practical for Unesco.
(54) The following paragraph says: “Considering that the French Government has undertaken to grant permanently to Unesco the privileges and immunities necessary for the exercise of its functions and to grant to it the right to acquire free of all taxes and duties all necessary material, equipment and services in France and also to import necessary equipment and material free of duty”. This paragraph, however, is in clear contradiction to page 11 of the Addendum, Annex III, which says: “In this connexion the question arises” - we were previously told it had been settled, but now we find it mentioned here - “of obtaining exoneration from customs and other duties on materials obtained abroad and exoneration from taxes on materials purchased in France. ” In other words, the draft resolution states that we have a definite promise of this, whereas the Annex says we are hoping to obtain it. I should like this matter to be cleared up too.
(55) I now come to the most important point of the agreement. In actual fact, France is making us a gift; but from the legal standpoint it is not a gift but a lease. It is a lease at an insignificant rent, but a lease all the same. It is stated that this lease is to be granted for a period of 99 years, and will be automatically renewable, at the request of Unesco, for further successive periods of 99 years. So why should it not be made an outright gift.,?Since it is in our power to renew the lease, its duration is in perpetuity, that is to say, not terminable: the site is ours.
(56) In my opinion it would have been more logical (and here the French Government goes even further than my idea) for the French Government to have said “We will give the ground for the Unesco building, but if you want to use it for any other purpose, the ground and everything erected on it will come back to us, because it is not with that object that we are giving the site.” According - 84 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s to the present plan, if we do not put up the Unesco building we continue to own the ground, since it is given to us in perpetuity, and that is not fair. The French Government is more generous and says that if for one reason or another this ground is not used for Unesco, if you want to sell it or if you want to recover what you have spent, the French Government will meet your expenditure and take back the ground. That is more generous, but perhaps not so practical for us. In other words I think the most practical thing would be simply to make a present of the site for building, in per- petuity with no reservations, no favours and no conditions whatever.
(57) In Article 8 it is stated that “The present contract shall be submitted to the French Parliament for approval at the same time as the Headquarters Agreement. ” 1 can quite understand that the French Parliament has to ratify an agreement for the cession of part of the national patrimony; what I do not understand is that it has to ratify the Headquarters Agreement, which relates to one of our own offices and is an internal affair of Unesco. Perhaps the translation given to me does not accurately render the meaning of the author of the resolution and of the plan in other languages.
(58) Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil) - (Translation from the French) The universal vocation of Paris goes back a very long way, for the Romans already said: “Lutetia non urbs sed orbis’, and it is because Unesco is as universal as Paris that the two became linked together and that its Head- quarters was spontaneously set up here. The traditional largesse of the French monarchy has been continued through the Republic, though it has changed its character; it is no longer bestowed to rear a Palace of Versailles but to build the international Palace of Culture. We are happy to see in the permanence of this generosity that the great examples of the past are more living than ever. The thanks of all the Member States have already been expressed here in the most cordial form. Brazil could hardly fail, when such high praise is awarded, to associate itself with these States most enthusiastically.
(59) Mr. President, I intend to make certain remarks on behalf of my Government concerning points of detail, but I should like first to consider a general problem: it is the part played by modern architecture in the solution of one of the most complicated technical and social problems which have ever arisen. Thanks to an extraordinarily fertile harmony of views between five archi- tects of international fame: Messrs. Gropius, Le Corbusier, Rogers, Markelius and Lucia Costa, and three great architects specially commissioned to assist in designing and executing a noble work of art, you have been able to admire an architectural achievement as characteristic and revealing for the twentieth century as were, for their times, the great temples of Upper Egypt and the Parthenon of Greece. I hail this effort of modern architecture and this contribution of the inter- national congresses of modern architecture as a step forward that could not have been taken without Unesco. The rôle of the architect today is an eminently social one, and it is for Unesco to provide the opportunities for these workers of tomorrow, in a world which seems to be everywhere yielding under our feet and which has almost everywhere a sense of stifling, to breathe and to live with the dignity of the men of tomorrow. That will be a signal victory also for a great class of intellectual workers who are too often forgotten and whose rôle will become increasingly important in that structure of the future to which we are making our own contribution.
(60) These eight leaders of contemporary architecture have until now been able to work together and to examine together the weaker points of detail and the general effect in its main lines. It seems to me important, indeed essential, that this collaboration should continue during the further working out of the plans that have been outlined up to the present and of the models that have been submitted. It should be recognized as indispensable that the panel of five international architects, whose busi- ness it is to play the rôle of constructive critics to the great architects, should be kept in being. These five architects together, or at least represented by three of their number, should continue to collaborate with the three eminent architects in the designs and detailed plans which will later be submitted to the Headquarters Committee and to the Director-General.
(61) There is at least one felicitous innovation in the Unesco Headquarters project. It is the estab- lishment of a committee of art advisers which will assist the Director-General in incorporating the plastic arts in this great architectural monument. We are happy to see that provision has been made for a body which will include a representative of the panel of five, a representative of the group of three, and artists and art critics. I cannot but think of the creation by Unesco at Venice of the International Association of Plastic Arts, and I already see a means by which it can participate in this great and completely new work. Hitherto, plastic art has tended to be dissociated from the monument it decorates. Accordingly, when you visit the majority of the great monuments of today you have a feeling of repugnance on looking at the faded panels and the statues that have no affinity with the building. For the first time a real attempt is going to be made on a technical basis to ensure that the work is in harmony with the age and that the structure as a whole will remain of high artistic value throughout the centuries to come. In the plan submitted to us concerning the functions of the committee of art advisers, there is, I feel, one point which is open to criticism; it - 85 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   III-6 P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s is stated more than once that this group of advisers will submit its proposals to the Director- General. I do not ask for a modification of the text; all I suggest is what might be called a perf- ectly clear gentleman’s agreement with the administration of Unesco: an agreement that the op- inions expressed by this group of advisers will be transmitted not only to the Director-General but also to the Headquarters Committee, which is the sole official representative of the General Con- ference for everything that concerns the work on this great building. The Headquarters Committee cannot be kept out of any matter whatsoever that concerns the building, because this Conference has entrusted it with the duty of watching over everything connected with it; and particularly under a system of biennial conferences Member States must be continuously in touch with all that is being done in connexion with a plan as important and as costly as this one.
(62) I should like to recall our hope that ample accommodation will be provided in the projected building for housing the governmental delegations. It is not merely for the convenience of deleg- ations that offices should be set aside for their work; the problem is a much bigger one. Unesco’s policy itself will be strengthened by the daily presence of these delegates at the scene of their labours. By observing such a group of workers devoted to this task and by submitting to each of them the opinions, suggestions and proposals of the distant governments which provide the moral and material support for this institution, the latter will be able constantly to experience the vivi- fying influence of the governments and at the same time to lay before them day by day the fruits of their joint labours. I should therefore like to urge that in the details still to be examined, the ar- chitects should take the fullest account of the fact that sixty-five Member States of Unesco should one day be able to have their offices at the Headquarters of Unesco, even if this result can only be achieved gradually and as the practical possibilities of accommodation permit.
(63) One point of detail, Mr. President. Provision is made in connexion with the building of the Headquarters and this Technical Building Office for a Project Director. I imagine the part he will play will be an extremely complicated one. As I see it, he will have to be first and foremost a liaison officer, concerned with the local means of construction and with everything that can be directly supplied, whether by industry or by trade. He will also have to be within reach of Paris for the completion of the Headquarters under the most satisfactory technical conditions. I should like this Project Director to be a great French technician in touch with all the problems that the City of Paris and France may present, and with all the facilities they may afford for the achieve- ment of this task.
(64) I believe, Mr. President, that we shall certainly encounter difficulties today as regards the voting of the budget. As far as I am concerned, I should like to tell you that the Government of Brazil regards it as a duty implicit in the position which it is proud to hold in this Organization to shoulder all the expenditure necessary to ensure that the Unesco building shall be the building of the humanity of the future. (At this point the Chair was taken by His Excellency Pierre Dupuy (Canada))
(65) Mr. DAOUD AMMOUN (Lebanon) - (Translation from the French) Will you allow me first of all to make a few brief observations, as a jurist, on the form and the substance of the contract before us today. Although the Supplementary Report of the Headquarters Committee states that the report is submitted to us for information, I imagine that the word “information” implies the possi- bility of discussion as well.
(66) In the draft lease there is a point on which I should like to reply myself to the delegate of Peru: it is that which concerns the nominal annual rent. Obviously, it is a juridical clause, a formal clause in French law. You have got to take account of the fact that a site whose leasehold value is several millions of francs, perhaps even a milliard, is being leased for 1,000 francs only. The word nominal comes in here to explain that it is only to avoid infringement of a clause of French law which assumes that the State cannot alienate such property - I believe that this is the explana- tion in the present case - or for some other reason. In fact, the word nominal here is meant to explain in what follows the extreme lowness of the rent. From this point of view, then, the word nominal has a legal meaning and interpretation; I think it can be left in.
(67) Coming now to the substance of the contract, I should like to submit to the Conference two observations which are of a somewhat technical nature; I apologize for embarking on this subject. For example, Article 6 states: “The Organization shall nevertheless be responsible for the payment of City, Police and Highway duties, and in particular for municipal charges . . . All the above con- ditions to be fulfilled in such a manner that the French Government may not be involved in any com- plaint, dispute or litigation relating to the aforesaid buildings. ” Here again, if you like, it is the lawyer in me that is brought up by the phrase: “All the above conditions to be fulfilled in such a manner that the French Government may not be involved. ” The sentence needs an addition and should read as follows: “that the French Government may not be involved in any complaint, dispute - 86 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s III-6 or litigation relating to the aforesaid buildings on the subject of the aforesaid charges and duties”. There is a close connexion between the two and it is not made plain in the contract.
(68) With regard to Article 7, which is the arbitration clause, I should also like to make an obser- vation. Here is what the article says: “Should any dispute arise regarding the carrying out of any of the terms of the present lease, the French Government and the Organization undertake, if it cannot be settled by negotiation or any other arrangement agreeable to both parties, to refer the matter for decision to a Tribunal composed of three arbitrators, one appointed by the Director- General of the Organization, one by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the third chosen by the other two, or if they are unable to reach agreement, by the Chairman of the International Court of Justice”. Would not the French Government itself agree with me to strike out the parenthesis “if it cannot be settled by negotiation or any other arrangement agreeable to both parties”? If it is settled by negotiation, there is no further dispute. It often happens between two parties that they have some sort of difference; if it is settled by negotiation, the difference ceases to exist. What cannot be agreed to, however, is the phrase “or any other arrangement agreeable to both parties”; it is possible to resort to arbitration, of course, and that is provided for, but any other kind of settlement is out of the question in this particular case, since we are dealing with an inter- national organization which enjoys extra-territorial rights. It would therefore be better to strike out this phrase, which contributes absolutely nothing to the substance of the document.
(69) Article 8, “Conditions of entry into force of this contract” is drafted as follows: “The present contract shall be submitted to the French Parliament for approval at the same time as the Head- quarters Agreement”. The French delegate told us just now what would happen in the extremely improbable event of the present contract not being ratified. In fact it will be, and I see no object in taking precautions; but it might perhaps be added that, in such a case; there is either an agreement between the parties or a provision for the settlement of such expenses as Unesco may have incurred in the interval.
(70) Continuing on this juridical level, I should say that we have nothing at all to fear from the French State, which has just furnished us with an additional proof of its generosity, and Lebanon would like to add its modest voice to the chorus of thanks addressed to France for establishing Unesco in Paris; I have no need to repeat what other speakers have said and what I said myself last year at the Seventh Session of our Conference; what we have most to fear from - and on this point we have not yet had sufficient explanation - is what I might call internal complications. Will the City of Paris and the French State find it easy to come to an agreement? If we were dealing directly with the City of Paris and with the French State, things would be much simpler. But can the French State answer for the City of Paris? May there not be surprises in store on this point? It is on this subject that we could do with a few rather clearer explanations; for example, the things we have been reading in the press on the Sites Commission have not seemed to us suffici- ently clear.
(71) Finally, and this is the last point on which I shall be asking for information, might it not possibly be a good thing to enlarge the membership of the Headquarters Committee a little and to add one or two members. Now or never is the time to take geographical distribution into account and to give an opportunity for every part of the world, whether it be on the cultural plane or the linguistic plane, to be represented. The Headquarters Committee is at present composed of ele- ven members; I think that, with the addition of three members, it would possess a geographical composition more in line with the objectives of Unesco. I apologize to the French delegation for having begun in a critical vein and I hope Mr. Valeur is not repeating under his breath, with his thoughts on us, those lines of Racine: “When I take arms for you may I in hope repose I shall not see your name counted among my foes”
(72) It would be difficult to add anything to all that the delegates here have said about France. Speaking for myself, I cannot find terms, or even a new formula. Let France, however, be assured here and now of the sincere thanks of the Lebanese Government and, associating myself with what Mr. Carneiro said on this point just now, I wish to state that although we are not a rich country, we are ready to shoulder our share of the burden for the fulfilment of a task which will permit Unesco to give material form to its intellectual and moral aspirations.
(73) Mr. MIGONE (Italy) - (Translation from the French) Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the Italian delegation would like to associate itself with the extremely warm thanks that are due to the French Government for its generous, its very generous, offer of a site which is one of the best in Paris and for the interest-free financing of its construction and equipment. A loan of two-and- a-half milliard francs without interest and for thirty years represents a gift which would be completely unexpected, did it not come from the French Government. The Italian delegation, which has taken part in the extremely painstaking work of the Headquarters Committee, would like before - 87 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   III-6 P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s anything else to recommend the adoption of the draft resolution before you. There is only one matter to which I should like to draw your attention; it is point 2 of the resolution which you will find on page 3 of document 2 XC/3, Addendum 1, in which the Director-General is authorized to consult a Committee of Art Advisers. The Italian delegation, as Mr. Carneiro has already em- phasized, would like this committee to include a representative of the International Association of Plastic Arts. It is hardly necessary for me to remind you of the importance and the rôle of this association, which rose from the lagoons of Venice under the aegis of Unesco and inspired by its ideals. This proposal is not intended as any sort of reflection on the great talents of the architects, to which generous tribute has already been paid by the speakers who preceded me and with whom I entirely associate myself.
(74) In conclusion, I should like to stress how important we feel it to be that the Headquarters Committee should continue in office and should be kept informed of the progress of the project and of the work, as the sole body empowered to represent the General Conference in this matter.
(75) The PRESIDENT - (Translation from the French) The Acting Director-General will reply to some of the questions which have been asked.
(76) The ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL - I have attempted to keep note of all the comments made by the various speakers and I hope that I will be able to give satisfaction as far as questions are concerned, and to make some suggestions which might work the draft resolution out to the satis- faction of almost everyone. First, as regards the remarks made by Don Alberto Jochamowitz of Peru, I think the first point he made was that we had not quite properly expressed our gratitude to the French Government. I suspect he is quite right. I venture to say that the reason is that resolution 29. 1 of the Seventh Session of the General Conference expressed gratitude for that generosity and I feel certain that, without difficulty here, we can elaborate the section of the res- olution to his satisfaction. It would be a great pleasure, I am sure, to reinforce our thanks to the French Government for its generosity. It has been said on every score and I am sure it should be underscored in the resolution.
(77) The second point I have noted which was made by the delegate of Peru relates to sub-para- graph 3 of Section 1 of the draft resolution. He suggests that we include the idea of accepting the preliminary plan which has been approved by the jury of five and he also indicated that he thought the authority to proceed with the elaboration of the final project should appear there. I am quite sure we can very easily insert the proper words to do that.
(78) The point raised concerning the nominal rent in the lease form was, I think, referred to by one or two other speakers. I imagine, possibly in view of the comments that have been made, that Mr. Jochamowitz would not insist on that point. This, I think, we all understand is the term; I suspect the point is more legal than anything else and I think we need not dwell on it. I believe he is quite right about the title of the Headquarters Office. I recall we had long discussions in my office on what we should call it and many names were mentioned. Finally, we decided to call it the Headquarters Office. We can add a word or two, I am sure, which will more clearly define its function in a short title. We could call it the “Headquarters Planning Office” or “Technical Control”. I am quite certain however, that we shall be able to satisfy the delegate of Peru on that point.
(79) Another point was made in that same connexion. It had to do with the relation of the Head- quarters Committee to the Executive Board. It appears to me that the Headquarters Committee is an organ directly established, and it stands directly in relation to and reports to the General Conference. It is an organ made up of representatives of Member States, and I rather think that the relationship should not be disturbed. I certainly do not in any way intend to imply that the Executive Board will be kept in the dark about what the Committee does; its reports certainly can be made available from time to time. I do not believe that I have missed any other point that the delegate of Peru made that called for reply. If I have, please do not hesitate to call my attention to it when I have finished.
(80) I was particularly interested to hear the report from Mr. Verniers. He will be glad to know that the architects have been very much concerned, as have members of the Headquarters Com- mittee, with acoustics. We have all had difficulties; some of the rooms in this building are very difficult. But acoustics seem to be a science, if I may call it that, which has not quite completely been resolved. All I can say to you is that the architects have in mind getting the best advice they can on the acoustics, and you can feel sure that we will do all we can concerning that point. I am greatly pleased also to hear the report on the cost estimates. We have done some very careful checking by having various official figures turned in.
(81) Mr. Verniers referred to sub-paragraph 5 of Section 2 of the resolution - on page 4 of docu- ment 2 XC/3 Addendum 1. He suggested that the Headquarters Committee should be continued - 88 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s III-6 until the construction of the permanent Headquarters building was completed and included the idea until the building had been finally accepted. I think certainly we should insert that in the resolu- tion. That would be the idea, I am sure, that was in the minds of all when this was read.
(82) Mr. Verniers also raised a small point concerning the necessity for an assistant director to the project director in the Headquarters Planning Office. I would say that I believe there is no one more interested than we are in avoiding unnecessary expenditure. This estimate of the Head- quarters Planning Office is the best we can produce now. You may be sure that if the Director of that Office does not need an assistant the assistant will never be appointed. Our present thinking is that he should have an assistant; but, as I say, we do not consider anything in this vein as absolutely final. We will proceed and hire just what we need and spend as little as we can.
(83) The Head of the delegation of the Union of South Africa raised a rather more difficult point, shall I say, for me to reply to. As regards the $1, 080,000 proposed for equipment to the building I do not believe that he received as far as I can tell here - nor did you - a detailed breakdown of this sum. I can read to you, if you like, all the details, but I think it will not be necessary. What I want to stress is that this money is not there to buy fine new desks and swivel chairs. We intend to take all the old furniture we have from here. It is not intended to provide handsome, prosperous looking furniture. It is on the other hand to provide, for example, for electric light installations and for equipment in the library - shelving and the like. It is to provide for equipment in the cafeteria that is contemplated in the building. More important than any of those things, it is to provide for the telephone installation. Telephones are necessary and they cost money. If some move were made to cut down or to delay the approval of this million odd dollars I would have to insist that we at least authorize the purchase of telephone equipment and light fixture equipment, or at least conduits. The fixtures, of course, could be left till later, until Montevideo. But if we do not purchase telephone equipment, that is to say, if we wait until Montevideo, it cannot be properly installed in the building.
(84) You can, of course, be sure that at Montevideo you will get the fullest report on costs of all kinds. I have told the Headquarters Committee before, and I want to repeat it to you, that if you authorize this building there are two items in the resolution that fix ceilings - one is $6, 000, 000 for the construction of the building itself and for all the plans and the architects’ drawings, etc. ; the other is the so-called equipment item. If you authorize these, Unesco cannot spend a dime more than that authorization. That money will not all have been spent by the time of the Monte- video Conference in the fall of 1954. If, for example, there should be an enormous increase of prices somewhere, or if there should be an upheaval, we should of course have to report that to you. We have asked and have obtained the best advice we can get and we think we have not made any errors in the estimates. But we also know that to estimate for a building of this kind so far in advance is almost impossible. It seems to me that if we come to Montevideo and you have already authorized this building with these two ceiling figures and if we find they will cost US
50,000 or 30,000 or 100,000 more, we shall tell you at that time. You will have the choice of saying: we will pay that extra 50, 000 or we will not pay it. If you do not pay it you will have fewer offices or you may even have half a floor less, because you will be able to instruct the Director- General at that time to stay within the figure if that is what you want him to do. So if you get a little less building, you get a little less building; but you have stayed within the commitment that has been made as far as the governments are concerned.
(85) That really leads me on to some of the questions raised by the Count de Casa Rojas. He asked, for example, how we know we are going to spend exactly so much when he makes reference to the Headquarters Planning Unit. The Headquarters Planning Unit is there for that very purpose. It will plan time schedules. It will certify the payment to every contractor and sub-contractor and the expenditures cannot be made without the authorization from that Office and without a host of counter-signatures and approvals of the architects concerned and the administration here. So I feel that at all events, you can be satisfied that your money is not going to be overspent. You will be placed in possession of the full facts at the Conference at Montevideo and you can make up your mind. I recall very well, particularly because of where it came from - that is to say, in the dis- cussion in the Administrative Commission in the Seventh Session of the General Conference - that the delegate of Canada made a speech along much the same lines. He said in effect, “We want to know how much the building is going to cost. We have had sufficient experience of buildings to know that when you say $6,000,000, it might be $5,980,000, it might be $6,050,000, it might even be $6, 150, 000”. He said “We would not be concerned about that. But what we want you to know, Mr. Director-General, is that we are not talking about an $8, 000, 000 building or a $9, 000,000 building when we tell you we are talking about a $6, 000, 000 or a $7, 000, 000 building”. I believe that we have to approach the question in that way with the knowledge that the ceilings cannot be exceeded. They certainly will not and cannot be exceeded. You will have for building exactly the amount of money this Conference wants to vote. - 89 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s III-6
(86) To take up another point or two, I believe the Count de Casa Rojas raised the question of freedom from Customs duties, and he contrasted one section in the lease with a section in the Headquarters Agreement. One said “We hope to obtain” and the other said “We obtained”. As I understand that, we have obtained this authority from the French Government and I can assure Count de Casa Rojas on that matter.
(87) Of the points raised by Mr. Carneiro, Brazil, I think the first of real importance had to do with keeping the Headquarters Committee in touch with the committee on the decoration of the building - the Arts and Decorations Committee I should like to call it. That item was discussed at some length in the Headquarters Committee, and I think the result was that no member of this Decorations Committee was finally put on from the Headquarters Committee. It was felt that that should be a committee of technicians, so to speak, of artists and experts, and that the Headquar- ters Committee members, being representatives of governments would not have the same kind of status. We felt when we discussed the matter there - I am sure it is recorded in the minutes - that liaison should be maintained between the two committees. We even went so far as to suggest that the Chairman or his representative might attend meetings of the other committee. I feel certain that we can give Mr. Carneiro satisfaction on that point, because the papers could be ex- changed between the committees. The important thing, we felt, was not to double the difficulty by saying that not only did the Arts and Decorations Committee have to approve or recommend to the Director-General the acceptance of projects and the like or the acceptance of gifts, but if we added to it the Headquarters Committee machinery and had to obtain two recommendations or approvals, it would slow down the process enormously. It might even get to the point of being ridiculous. I feel certain we can give Mr. Carneiro satisfaction on the maintenance of liaison.
(88) Another question raised by Mr. Carneiro was the relationship of the Panel of Five. I feel certain that the resolution, as it is now established, provides for consultation there, as needed, by the Headquarters Committee.
(89) I must confess that, when Mr. Daoud Ammoun of Lebanon said “certain of my points may appear a little legalistic”, some of his points escaped me. With your permission, Mr. President, I shall therefore ask Mr. Saba here if he wants to speak on the very legal character of those points. I would, however, say one thing before Mr. Saba raises that point, and that is on his proposal that we add three additional States to the Headquarters Committee. I would remind the Conference that the Headquarters Committee is composed now of eleven Member States elected at the twenty-third plenary meeting of the Seventh Session of the General Conference. Those States are Australia, Belgium, Brazil, China, United States of America, France, India, Italy, Pakistan, United Kingdom and Venezuela. The Conference is, of course, free to add additional Member States to this Com- mittee.
(90) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) - (Translation from the French) Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the delegate of Lebanon raised three difficulties with regard to the draft lease.
(91) The first of these concerns Article 6, which is entitled “Duties and Charges”. I can say that this article was introduced at the request of the Representative of the Domaines. Under the pro- visions of French legislation, the Administration des Domaines is liable for taxation. What the representative of the Domaines wanted was a special provision which should make it quite clear that since Unesco enjoys complete fiscal exemption in the matter of the land tax, this tax should not be demanded from the Administration des Domaines, and having regard to the very small and nominal figure of the rent, I think this request was entirely justified. Accordingly the clause was modified so as to indicate clearly that Unesco enjoys exemption from land tax under Article 15 of the Heaxquarters Agreement. It is a question here, as far as Unesco is concerned, purely and simply of recalling the provisions which exempt it. The lease therefore indicates in Article 6 that the Organization is exempt from land tax, but is not exempt from municipal charges for services rendered (this is the exact repetition of Article 15), and the final paragraph can only be construed, in this context, as signifying that the French Government can obviously not be obliged to pay either the taxes and duties which the Organization does not owe, or those which it does owe for services rendered. In any case, if the addition of the word “tax” would make the text clearer, I do not think the French Government would have any objection,
(92) The second difficulty raised by the delegate of Lebanon concerns the arbitration clause. I may perhaps point out that this clause is a formal clause which is to be found in every contract signed between governments, and even, I may say, between international organizations and gov- ernments. You will find this “formal clause” in the Headquarters Agreement with the French Gov- ernment and also, if my memory serves me, in the Agreement between the United Nations and the United States of America. The object is to say in as courteous a fashion as possible that the hypo- thesis of a difference is really a very unlikely one because every method of conciliation, indeed every possible method, will be utilized to settle it. It is this reference to conciliation and all - 90 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s III-6 possible efforts to avoid arriving at the stage of arbitration that is contained in the parenthetical phrase which the delegate of Lebanon wants to strike out. My feeling is that, in view of its formal character, there should be no objection to its standing.
(93) With regard to the entry into force clause I believe - the French delegate will perhaps be able to give you fuller information on this than I could - that the ownership of the site concerned has been definitivelytransferred to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Consequently I do not believe there will be any difficulties with the City of Paris, as the delegate of Lebanon seemed to fear. This entry into force clause is nevertheless a necessity for the French Government: you are aware that the land legislation in France, and in particular the legislation on long leases, is an altogether peculiar kind of legislation, which so far as private leases is concerned - I am not talking of the Government because in the case of Government leases of land the limitations are even stricter - limits the lease to a period not exceeding 99 years, and for the Government to eighteen years. In fact, what you are being given is a perpetual grant, since Unesco will only have to make the re- quest and successive renewals on the same terms will be accorded.
(94) Again, there is a second derogation from French common law. According to the legislation on long leases, buildings belong to the lessors on the expiry of the lease. There again, in order to obtain the benefit of the exemption clauses which we owe to the generosity of the French Govern- ment, it has been necessary to resort to the principle of parliamentary approval. The only diffi- culty with regard to this entry into force condition was pointed out to you by the Acting Director- General just now: it is obviously difficult to be certain, in view of the parliamentary vacation, that the lease will be able definitively to enter into force on 1 January 1954. On this point the delegate of France and the Acting Director-General have explained the procedure contemplated with a view to guaranteeing Unesco against all risks.
(95) The ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL - I hope that one attorney has satisfied another. I should like now to complete my answers to questions by replying to the one raised by His Excellency Mr. Migone concerning the recognition of the Association internationale des Arts plastiques in the Decorations Committee. In the Advisory Committee, we had certainly discussed that representa- tion and also the representation in the International Committee of Art Critics. I therefore think that his delegation can have full satisfaction regarding our intentions in establishing the member- ship of this Committee.
(96) Mr. VALEUR (France) - (Translation from the French) Mr. President, I feel the Acting Director-General and the Legal Adviser of Unesco have replied to almost all the questions which have been raised at this rostrum. There are, however, three points which directly concern the French Government and on which I should like to put its point of view before you.
(97) I wish to reply first of all to the concern expressed by the delegate of Lebanon as to whether the French Government would be able to obtain the building permit, as we call it, in view of certain objections which may have been raised by French departments. I would begin by making it clear and by recalling and repeating that the undertaking was entered into by the French delegation and the French Government at the time of the last General Conference and that the disabilities which encumbered building in the Place de Fontenoy were lifted. This means that though it is true that in accordance with normal procedure the appropriate departments were consulted - and I repeat that these appropriate departments are the Ministry for Reconstruction, the Department of Fine Arts and the City of Paris - even if these appropriate departments were to raise serious objections to the architectural project which is before you, the French Government has the power to override them. All the same, we are a democratic country, and so far as is possible we do not like to over- ride the objections of the proper authorities, especially if they have public opinion behind them. On this last point, I should like to draw your attention, particularly the attention of those of you who have recently come to Paris, to the fact that the newspaper articles on the project you have before you have been in general favourable. As far as the Ministry for Reconstruction is concerned, it also is entirely favourable. The same is true of the Department of Fine Arts, which comes under the Ministry of Education. The only body that has raised a few objections on matters of detail has been the Sites Committee of the City of Paris, but these were easily surmounted by an agreement between the architects of the City of Paris and our architects, both those of the international group and the group who are doing the actual work. The only thing on which the Sites Committee insisted, and this is an important matter, was the character of the Conference building, and I repeat what I said to you a moment or two ago. As I am not a technician I will mention the formula on which the architects of the City of Paris were able to reach agreement with our architects: the Sites Com- mittee requested the architects to devote particular attention to the Conference building in its mon- umental aspect. I believe our architects are entirely ready to re-examine in some degree this part of the project. - 91 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   III-6 P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s
(98) To take another point, the delegate of Spain talked of the question of exemption from taxes. I believe the Acting Director-General has been able to reassure him. I would simply like to add that a rough calculation has been made of the total amount of these tax reliefs and, as far as I know, it comes to about a million dollars. In consequence, these million dollars are to be added to the generous treatment - I do not want to have to stress this point too much - which the French Govern- ment has already shown to Unesco.
(99) The delegate of Spain also raised the question why the French Government had not made an outright donation of the site rather than granting a lease of it. I will not repeat what the Legal Adviser said on this issue, since in reality the lease is a perpetual grant. I will quote from Article 2 of the Draft Lease: “At the request of the Organization, the lease shall be renewed on the same terms and the present contract extended for further successive periods of 99 years”. The result of that is that the French Government has not the option of refusing renewal of the lease: its renewal is automatic, on simple notification by Unesco.
(100) I should simply like to point out to the delegate of Spain that certain difficulties of a juridical character arose. The first of these difficulties was explained by Unesco’s Legal Adviser: it was the fact that a French Government cannot grant a lease for a period longer than eighteen years, and that is why a parliamentary ratification is necessary. In regard to the question of donating a piece of State land, we come up against a provision of public law which it is much more difficult to get over than a provision of private law. Consequently, I appeal to the spirit of generosity that charac- terizes the Spanish people and I hope that the delegate of Spain will not maintain his objection.
(101) Count de CASA ROJAS (Spain) - (Translation from the Spanish) I should like to obtain an explanation. You have been kind enough to take note of my observations, but there is one point to which no reply has been made. Article 8 says that “The present contract shall be submitted to the French Parliament for approval at the same time as the Headquarters Agreement”. I said that the approval of the French Parliament was indispensable for the charges, the lease and the amendment of the French law, but that the Headquarters Agreement was a private matter of our own and did not require the intervention of the French Parliament. This is the only point that has not been made clear to me, and I would ask the legal experts on the General Committee to be kind enough to explain to me why the French Parliament has to approve the establishment of our Headquarters.
(102) The ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL - Mr. President, the Convention referred to there is the Convention on Privileges and Immunities, the so-called Headquarters Agreement. But of course it must be ratified by the Parliament. We operate on a temporary agreement now.
(103) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French) Are there any further speakers? No? In that case, gentlemen, I think we can now deal with the various amendments which have been pro- posed. I will ask the Secretary to read you the first amendment, on which I will then consult you.
(104) Mr. MONTAGNIER, Secretary of the General Conference, (Translated from the French) Mr. President, the delegate of Peru proposes to introduce the word “very” into the third paragraph of the preamble to the draft resolution to describe the generous offer made by the French Govern- ment: “Recalling the very generous offer made by the French Government”.
(105) The second amendment also comes from the Peruvian delegation. It concerns No 3 of Section 1 of the draft resolution, and it would make the beginning of the paragraph read as follows: “3. To approve the preliminary project for the Permanent Headquarters of Unesco presented by the three architects, Messrs. Breuer, Nervi and Zehrfuss, to adopt the final project and to pro- ceed with the construction at a total cost . . .‘I (the remainder is unchanged) Agreed.
(106) In Section 5 of the draft resolution, the Belgian delegation proposes to introduce the follow- ing amendment: “Decides that the Headquarters Committee shall be continued until the Permanent Headquarters Building has been completed and handed over to the Organization . . . ” (The remainder is unchanged. ) Agreed. APPOINTMENT OF ADDITIONAL MEMBERS TO THE HEADQUARTERS COMMITTEE
(107) Coming to the paragraph which deals with the Headquarters Committee, we have before us draft resolutions tabled by the Lebanese delegation concerning the composition of this committee. The Acting Director-General told us just now that the Headquarters Committee is at present com- posed of eleven members. The object of the Lebanese delegation’s motion is to increase the membership of the Headquarters Committee to fourteen. Here is the text of the motion: “The General Conference, in order to obtain a better geographical distribution in the membership of the - 92 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s III-6 Headquarters Committee, decides to increase to fourteen the number of its members”. If this draft resolution is adopted by the Conference, it could form a new paragraph, No. 6.
(108) The PRESIDENT - (Translation from the French) Those in favour of this amendment? Against? The amendment is adopted by 27 votes to 12.
(109) Has anyone any proposals to make on the subject of the three new States to be added to the Committee?
(110) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) - (Translation from the French) Mr. President, the Lebanese delegation proposes Greece as the twelfth country.
(111) Mr. DAVIES (Australia) - Mr. President, in view of the very active part taken by the Canadian delegation in the discussions at the last session of the General Conference, I would like to propose Canada.
(112) Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia) - Mr. President, I would like to propose the delegation of Spain as the fourteenth member.
(113) The PRESIDENT - (Translation from the French) Are there any other proposals? In the absence of any further nominations, I will consult the Conference as to whether the first nomina- tion, that of Greece, is seconded and adopted. Adopted. The nomination of Canada? Adopted. The nomination of Spain? Adopted. I therefore declare Greece, Canada and Spain added to the list of countries represented.
(114) Gentlemen, now that you have voted on the amendments, I will consult you on the resolution as a whole. I call upon the delegate of Spain.
(115) Count de CASA ROJAS (Spain) - (Translation from the Spanish) I was so much pressed for time when speaking that I may perhaps not have made my meaning quite clear. We are told that in order to avoid a duplication of expenditure, repayments are not to begin until we give up the lease of this building and are therefore postponed until 1957. I suggested that instead of fixing a date, it would have been better to say, until we enter into possession of the new building. This might be before or after 1957. In that way we would bring into line the spirit and the letter of the agree- ment, for the intention is that we shall not have to pay for two buildings at the same time. Thus, if the new building were finished before 1957, repayment would begin sooner, while if it were finished only later, this clause would come into force, stipulating repayment not in 1957, but as from the date on which we enter into possession of the new building.
(116) Mr. MIGONE (Italy) - (Translation from the French) If I have understood aright, the Head- quarters Committee is now composed of fourteen members. I should like to propose that it be composed of an odd number. I therefore suggest that the membership be increased to fifteen and I propose that the representative of Denmark be invited to join the Committee.
(117) The PRESIDENT - (Translation from the French) Gentlemen, the delegate of Italy proposes that one more country be added to the list of the countries represented and suggests that this country be Denmark. All those in favour of this proposal? I call upon the delegate of Mexico.
(118) Mr. de ICAZA (Mexico) - (Translation from the Spanish) Mr. President, I suggest that the motion we are discussing should be divided into two parts: the first part, relating to the increase of the membership to a total of fifteen, that is to say an odd number, seems to me to be excellent. I am in favour of it and shall vote for it.
(119) As for the second part, despite all our esteem and respect for the delegation of Denmark, I feel obliged to call the attention of the Conference to the question of geographical representation: if there are to be fifteen members I think the fifteenth member should be a representative of Latin America, nominated by general agreement of the Latin American delegates to this Extraordinary Session. Thank you.
(120) Mr. NIELSEN (Denmark) - It was the general view of my delegation that the number of the members of the Committee should not be increased. It is our view that a small body is capable of - 93 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   III-6 P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s doing more efficient work than a large one. We accordingly voted against increasing the number of the Committee. Now Denmark has been proposed as a member. I would therefore ask that the name of my country be omitted and that you agree on another member.
(121) Mr. MUDALIAR (India) - I must confess to a feeling of surprise at the manner in which amendments are moved and accepted in this house without any previous notice. I feel that when important amendments are submitted, adequate notice must be given, so that all delegations may be present here and may express their viewpoint. I was surprised that a move for increasing the number of members of the Headquarters Committee should have been made in the course of a discussion which was really meant to consider the problems of the Headquarters Committee. I do not see any purpose in introducing an amendment of this nature at this stage, which was not at all expected by most of the delegations. We have been talking all the time about the budgetary ceiling for the building committee, and about various other aspects which should effect economies in the building. I would like to ask the Acting Director-General whether it is not a fact that, if the membership of the building committee is to be increased, that will certainly increase the expend- iture that is to be incurred by the frequent meetings of the committee. Moreover, the suggestion has been made that the building committee should be constituted on a geographical basis. I have never heard of such a suggestion in regard to other buildings. I entirely share the view of the delegate of Denmark that the Headquarters Committee should be a very small committee consist- ing of experts. I should like in this connexion to state that, when the building of the World Health Organization was contracted, a small committee of five members dealt with all aspects of the matter. It was a $4,000,000 estimate. I feel that, instead of rushing through this decision at the present stage, the whole question should be placed before us for further consideration. I would therefore move, in spite of the fact that certain votes have been taken, that the matter be discussed tomorrow morning, due notice being given of the amendments and all the members of the delegations having an opportunity to discuss them. It is not a question of suggesting that any country should not be there or should be there. It is a question of economy and how best to conduct business in an organization where the most recent matters of business are the first to receive our attention. On that ground, I feel that the question should be reconsidered, and I would re- quest you, Mr. President, to postpone decisions on all these points until tomorrow.
(122) The PRESIDENT - (Translation from the French) Gentlemen, we all understand very well the reactions of some delegates. I feel that with regard to the amendments, since they have been voted by a large majority, there is no question of going back on them. As to the number of mem- bers to be added to the Committee, the Chair is in the hands of the meeting, and it is for you to decide whether this Committee shall have fourteen or fifteen members. The delegate of India has, however, suggested that the discussion should be postponed until tomorrow. Is the Conference agreed on adjournment until tomorrow?
(123) Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium) - (Translation from the French) Mr. President, I apologize for having to put forward a rather more radical proposal. I have the impression that because of the lack of proper air conditioning, this meeting did not really know what it was about and voted, I should say out of sheer fatigue, resolutions that it would have been worth while looking at more closely. I agree entirely and absolutely with the opinion expressed by our colleague Mr. Mudaliar. The addition of a number of members to the Committee cannot but involve us in further expense and we have not the money to meet it. I therefore propose straight out that the vote we took just now on the increase of the membership of the Committee from eleven to fourteen be annulled and that we take the question up again tomorrow. We shall have had time to think things over.
(124) Count de CASA ROJAS (Spain) - (Translation from the Spanish) I do not regard the fact that Spain has been elected to the fourteenth place on the Committee as implying that it would be tact- less of me to speak on this subject. Various reasons have been invoked for opposing this decision and thus annulling a definite agreement. That would be a very dangerous precedent, though I will not attempt to say whether it would be revealed as such quickly or slowly. This may sound like censure of the Chair, but what is not possible is to cancel a definite agreement. That would not be a responsible or a legal action, and it would be unprecedented.
(125) I should also like to contest the main argument that the addition of a few more members would slow down the work. Yet another of the arguments advanced, that relating to the cost is not tenable. Three fewer members, if honorary and unpaid, would at most mean saving the cost of three pencils. The question of expense can certainly not prevent us from increasing the mem- bership of the Committee by three. There are no expenses to be met: we receive no fees or remuneration; we are offering a generous, spontaneous and disinterested collaboration. Thus - 94 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s III-6 the economy argument breaks down. However, I call the President’s attention to the legal pre- cedent we shall be setting up if we cancel the agreements we have just reached.
(126) Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil) - (Translation from the French) Mr. President, however good the reasons may be for disapproving of the vote that has been taken, I do not think we could agree to go back on a decision which has been officially announced. As a member of the Committee I should like to say that our duties are not technical and that we are not paid for our work. I have been sitting on the Committee for two years. I have never had the shadow of remuneration and I would never dream of expecting it. I therefore think that whatever may be the defects of a reso- lution, once it has been adopted by the Conference, there is no question of going back on it.
(127) The PRESIDENT - (Translation from the French) Does Mr. Verniers maintain his proposal?
(128) Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium) - (Translation from the French) Mr. President, I hope you will excuse me. To tell the truth, I do not want to discuss the question from the juridical point of view. Obviously, if we were to undo what we had done as soon as we had done it, we should never get anywhere. All the same, when you realize, on reflection, that you have made a mistake - and I think we have made a mistake - you have a perfect right to think about rectifying it, even if it does involve a little irregularity in procedure. What I am putting to the meeting is a question of common sense. Mr. Mudaliar expressed it very well. I apologize if my observations look like an involuntary criticism of the Chair, but in the ordinary way notice of the draft resolution should have been given in writing; everyone would have been able to think the matter over and we could then have discussed it. I must say the procedure followed in the introduction of the amendment was bad.
(129) Count de CASA ROJAS (Spain) - (Translation from the Spanish) I do not wish to enter into an argument with the delegate of Belgium, but if we adopt his thesis, we shall have to begin all over again, because nothing we have approved so far has been submitted in writing. All the amendments have been proposed verbally and have been regarded as in order.
(130) The PRESIDENT - (Translation from the French) Gentlemen, it is on you that the decisions depend. If my memory serves me, after each of the proposals was made, I asked whether any delegate wanted to speak, and if I remember right, I only put the proposals to the vote when I met with silence, your silence. Consequently, I think that, since there have been complaints of the heat not only outside but in here, only the last proposal can be adjourned till tomorrow, that is to say the proposal for a fifteenth member, As far as that is concerned, you are free to decide whether you want fourteen or fifteen members, that is your business; but I think that as far as the other amendments are concerned, they were all adopted by a very large majority. All the same, the meeting is always free to take a decision reversing what it has previously done. Are there any further speakers? Then the question of the fifteenth member is adjourned till tomorrow morning.
(131) Now, gentlemen, a final question on which I should like us to be all agreed. Are you ready now to vote on the draft resolution as a whole? Those in favour of adopting the resolution as a whole? Against? Abstentions? Gentlemen, the resolution is adopted by 44 votes to none, with
(132) Mr. PARRA-PEREZ (Venezuela) - (Translation from the French) I am speaking to you once more on behalf of the Committee of which I have the honour to be Chairman. You have just voted to renew your confidence in it by a very considerable majority. The Committee thanks you, and it takes the vote as an encouragement in its future labours. It will continue to work for you with the same whole-heartedness and the same enthusiasm because it is your creation and because it represents the Conference. You can count on our complete loyalty. I think that, in view of the collaboration which the Committee has enjoyed up till now with the French authorities, with the administration of Unesco and with the architects, to whom I have pleasure in paying a tribute, the work of the Committee will become more and more efficient and that at your next meeting in Montevideo, it will be able to submit to you reports as encouraging and decisive as hitherto. * Including the United Kingdom and the Union of South Africa - 95 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   III-6 P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s RESOLUTION ON THE INTERNATIONAL COMMISSION FOR A SCIENTIFIC AND CULTURAL HISTORY OF MANKIND
(133) The PRESIDENT - (Translation from the French) I call upon the Chairman of the Executive Board.
(134) Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) , Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr. President and fellow delegates, in accordance with your instructions, the Chairman of the International Com- mission for a Scientific and Cultural History of Mankind, the Secretariat and I worked through what the Acting Director-General called the noon time until about 3 o’clock in the afternoon, and produced a resolution to take care of the deficit in the production of a Scientific and Cultural History (2 XC/DR/S).
(135) This can be done in two ways, either by drawing direct on the Working Capital Fund or by not transferring savings to that Fund. We thought it best to adhere to the regulations on the Work- ing Capital Fund, and we propose to you a resolution which: “Requests the Director-General and the Executive Board to examine the possibility of finding such additional funds as may be essential for the continuation of this project in 1954 by a transfer within the existing budgetary appropriations, Decides that transfers within the budget to replace withdrawals from the Working Capital Fund shall not be considered possible unless the essential requirements of the International Com- mission for a Scientific and Cultural History of Mankind have been met. ”
(136) Count de CASA ROJAS (Spain) - (Translation from the Spanish) If I have correctly under- stood the wording of this draft resolution, it proposes that all transfers of available funds shall be made for the benefit of the International Commission for a Scientific and Cultural History of Man- kind. In other words, that Commission is to have a monopoly and to enjoy preferential treatment over the others. In my opinion no one is better fitted than the Executive Board and the Director- General to decide what is most urgent and most needed, and I am prepared to trust their decision. If they think this project should have precedence over the others, I shall support this draft reso- lution.
(137) Mr. BENDER (Netherlands) - I would like to state very briefly that our delegation is pre- pared to support this resolution. Our delegation in the past has had its doubts on this project, but we have information now that everything is progressing and it would be a great pity if it should have to be abandoned for lack of funds. We therefore move this resolution as presented.
(138) The PRESIDENT - (Translation from the French) Are there any other speakers? I now put the draft resolution to the vote. Those in favour of the draft resolution which has just been pro- posed? Those against? Abstentions.7 The resolution is adopted by 48 votes to 2, with 6 abstentions. REPORT OF THE CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE
(139) The PRESIDENT - I call upon Mr. Parra-Perez, Chairman of the Credentials Committee.
(140) Mr. PARRA-PEREZ (Venezuela), Chairman of the Credentials Committee, (Translation from the Spanish) Mr. President and fellow delegates, when I presented the first report on the examination of credentials, on behalf of the Committee which had done me the honour of electing me Chairman, the Conference approved the suggestion that, in my capacity as Chairman and in order to save time, I should be authorized to examine any further credentials which might be sub- mitted to the Committee. On the strength of this authorization, I have examined the credentials submitted on behalf of the following States: Afghanistan, Australia, Honduras, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and New Zealand, and having found them to conform to the provisions of Rule 22 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference, I propose that the representatives of those States shall be permitted, or shall consider themselves as having been permitted, to take part in the proceedings of the Second Extraordinary Session of the General Conference. I may remind you that the delegations of Honduras, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and New Zealand had submitted provisional credentials to the Credentials Committee.
(141) The PRESIDENT - (Translation from the French) Gentlemen, are you in favour of approving the report of the Chairman of the Credentials Committee? Approved. The meeting rose at 6.30 p. m. - 96 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.