III-5 P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s I called the freedom and the dignity of the international institution.
(98) The PRESIDENT - I take it from the general discussion and the speeches made here and from what the Head of the United States delegation has said, that the general sense of the Conference is to set up a small drafting committee with the idea of arriving at what Sir Ben Bowen Thomas calls a “common mind” on the question raised in the draft resolution moved by the United States delega- tion. Am I to take it that that is the general sense ? If so, I propose the following small committee of seven: United States of America, France, India, United Kingdom, Switzerland, Italy, Brazil. The meeting rose at 6.15 p. m. FIFTH PLENARY MEETING Friday, 3 July 1953, at 10.45 a. m. President: Dr. SARVEPALLI RADHAKRISHNAN (India) C O N T E N T S Interpretation or amendment of Staff Regulations with respect to standards of integrity (continued) . . . . Application to Unesco of the Executive Order of the President of the United States of America, dated 9 January 1953. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Report of the Acting Director-General on Regulation
1.6 of the Staff Regulations. . . . . . . . . . . . Consideration of communications received from the Governments of Czechoslovakia and Hungary. . . . Discussion on the United States draft resolution on the withdrawal of Member States from the Organization Discussion on a Scientific and Cultural History of Man- kind. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Discussion on the draft resolution relating to the “Gandhian way” . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
72 INTERPRETATION OR AMENDMENT OF STAFF REGULATIONS WITH RESPECT TO STANDARDS OF INTEGRITY (contd)
(1) The PRESIDENT - Yesterday afternoon we appointed a Drafting Committee to submit to us a draft resolution on item 15, designed to secure the greatest possible measure of support. That Committee will now submit its recommendation to us. I call upon the delegate of the United King- dom.
(2) Mr. BARTLETT (United Kingdom) - Mr. President, fellow delegates,. the Committee which you appointed met last night from 9 p. m. to 2 a. m. Our discussion was full, frank, friendly, and in spite of the hour was thoroughly enjoyed by all those present. We were called a Drafting Com- mittee. We had before us the texts of two draft resolutions, one presented by the delegation of the United States of America and the other presented by the delegation of France, but we had to ex- change views about matters of substance before we could begin to discuss the drafts. In other words, we were something between a Drafting Committee and what one would call a Working Party. You will not wish me to impose upon you a summary of so long a discussion. The countries participating - 60 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s III-5 in the Drafting Committee explained their personal view to you yesterday afternoon in the plenary meeting. Subject to one reservation, to which I shall refer later, we were able to arrive, in our informal and friendly discussion, at unanimous agreement upon the text of the resolution which you have before you; it is numbered 2 XC/DR/7. I must, however, record one reservation; I regret that, because I have had to give an account of the proceedings first to the General Committee, I have not had the opportunity to clear the summary which I shall now give you with the Swiss delegate. He may wish to correct or amplify my remarks. The Swiss delegation, which contributed most fruitfully to our discussion on the drafting of the resolution, felt, and their view was shared by at least one other delegation, that a fundamental point remained outstanding. The Swiss delegation would have liked to see a paragraph added to the resolution. This paragraph, drafted by the Swiss delegation, reads as follows: “The General Conference requests the Director-General to suspend until further decision of the General Conference the application of the interim measures not con- templated by the Constitution of Unesco and by the Staff Regulations. ”
(3) This reservation, we felt, was a matter for the Committee to report back to you. Subject to this reservation, as I have said, the Drafting Committee was in unanimous agreement upon the text of the draft resolution before you, to which each delegation present made its contribution. In the text, however, there may be two minor omissions, to which I should perhaps draw your attention. From the French text there may have been omitted the preamble, which in the English text reads: “The General Conference, at its Second Extraordinary Session. ”
(4) Secondly, in the English text there may be an omission from the paragraph which begins: “Recalling resolution 708 (VII) adopted on 1 April 1953 by the General Assembly of the United Na-- tions. ” To this clause should be added the word “annexed”, which appears in the French text in the form “. . . et figurant en annexe”; the text of that annex will be circulated by the Secretariat as soon as possible.
(5) I should like to add that the Committee’s deliberations were in accordance with the best tradi- tions of Unesco and such that I am proud to have been associated with them.
(6) Mr. NOGUEIRA (Uruguay) - (Translation from the Spanish) Mr. President, I feel I should first of all draw the attention of the competent authorities to the advisability or utility - not to say the necessity - of including representatives of the three working languages of the General Conference in the drafting committees of any of its organs. In 1946, during the proceedings of the Preparatory Commission, I asked for the simultaneous distribution of all documents in French and English, which were then the two working languages, since discussion was almost always based on the English text. Mr. Jean Thomas, who then represented the Secretariat, will doubtless remember my protests at that time. I venture to make this observation of an administrative nature because it would not surprise me if the appointment of an English-speaking Director-General were to increase the ten- dency to give priority to that language over French in all Unesco documents, and over Spanish and French in the General Conference, where the three languages are on an equal footing. It is clear that this will not be the case at Montevideo.
(7) The custom of forming drafting committees by selecting delegates who have spoken during the debate is usually explained, though not justified, by the assumption that they are more interested in the subject than are those who did not speak. This supposition may be quite untrue. I did not speak in yesterday’s debate on the draft resolution submitted by the United States delegation, al- though my name was on the list of speakers. I withdrew in order not take up the time of the Con- ference with my proposal for the appointment of a drafting committee, because the Head of the French delegation had already put forward the same proposal in eloquent terms. After hearing him I felt it would be presumptuous and tactless of me to insist on speaking. That, however, did not signify want of interest. There may have been, and no doubt were, many other Spanish-speaking delegates in the same position, whose merits would have entitled them to a seat on the Committee.
(8) I now wish to refer to the results achieved by the Drafting Committee appointed yesterday by the President which, I would like to say first of all, deserves the congratulations of the Conference. The chief task of the Drafting Committee was, in my view, to arrive at a satisfactory co-ordination of our resolution with the resolution adopted by the United Nations on 1 April 1953, while taking care to preserve our complete independence, since it should always be remembered that the United Nations is first and foremost a political organization, while Unesco is a technical institution in which the political element should be kept down to the unavoidable minimum.
(9) During the Second General Conference of Unesco, in Mexico, I protested on behalf of the Uru- guayan delegation against the introduction of politics into the proceedings. Certain delegates made use at that time of an assembly whose purpose was to consider education, science and culture, in order to attack the politics, in the strict sense of that word, of the United States of America. On that occasion, too, I suggested certain modifications in the Staff Regulations, aimed at stressing the independent character of the international civil servants by prohibiting them from accepting - 61 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   III-5 P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s honorary distinctions or Government decorations in recognition of any act performed after they joined the Secretariat. We had already put this matter before the Preparatory Commission in Paris and before the Sub-Committees of the First General Conference; but it was not possible, at that early stage, to frame all the necessary regulations. In the Administrative and External Rela- tions Commission of the Second General Conference I again made various proposals for emphasizing the international status of the officials. I will not tire you now by repeating what I said in the Pre- paratory Commission and in the General Conferences of 1946 and 1947. I will only add that not until December 1952 did I have the satisfaction of seeing these provisions incorporated in full in the Staff Regulations of Unesco, as the Acting Director-General, Dr. Taylor, opportunely and effect- ively recalled in his speech the day before yesterday.
(10) On 1 April 1953, the United Nations adopted a resolution based on the Articles 100 and 101 of the Charter which define the characteristics of the international civil servant, these being funda- mentally the same in the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies. The resolution stipulates that the next General Assembly should undertake the study of possible reforms in the light of the experience acquired in applying those Articles, and invites the Secretary-General and the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions to consult the administrative heads of the Specialized Agencies on this problem and to submit their recommendations as to any further action that might be required of the General Assembly. I should like to point out in passing that the United Nations decided to consult not the Specialized Agencies, but their administrative heads, so that the matter would not appear to concern this General Conference, or even the Executive Board, but simply our Director-General. This naturally does not prevent the General Conference, which has sovereign authority in this matter, from dealing with the subject as it is doing, in order to facili- tate the task of the Director-General, who can then put forward his conclusions supported by the discussions and decisions of the Executive Board, with which it is his duty to co-operate.
(11) There may, however, be a difficulty of procedure here, because the United Nations has asked its Secretary-General to report to the Eighth Session in September and October next after consul- tation with the Director-General of Unesco whom we ourselves have asked to report to the Eighth Session of the General Conference to be held at Montevideo a year later. I mention this problem of jurisdiction and deadline in case it may be really important because it would then be a good thing for the Director-General to know at once how he stands. If that is so, the Drafting Committee will naturally have taken the matter into account. In any event, the chief wish of the delegation of Uru- guay is, in the first place, that the resolution we are adopting here shall not conflict with the reso- lution adopted by the United Nations on 1 April 1953, and in the second place, that Unesco shall retain entire independence in matters relating to its Staff Regulations.
(12) In conclusion, I should like to make a statement of principle regarding the characteristics of the international official, as they are clearly defined in the staff regulations of all the international organizations. The international official does not represent his own country but, as it were, re- presents us all equally. There can be no objection to investigating the activities of one or more international officials, provided the person or committee conducting the investigation is also on an international footing and has been duly appointed by the institution concerned. Finally, I should like to take this opportunity of reminding Dr. Evans of what I said, under his Chairmanship, to Dr. Taylor, the Acting Director-General, at a meeting of the Administrative Commission of the General Conference last December, with regard to the geographical recruitment of the Secretariat and the use of the working languages (Records of the General Conference, Seventh Session, p. 605). I thank you, Mr. President.
(13) Count de CASA ROJAS (Spain) - (Translation from the Spanish) It seems illogical that a “drafting committee” should have been formed yesterday without the inclusion of a single Spanish- speaking delegate, since Spanish is the language spoken by the majority of the delegations to this Conference. Language is undoubtedly the most important of all the resources at the disposal of our Organization in its efforts to promote the ideals of education, science and culture by which it is inspired. Language is the tool of our Organization; it is also the means of spreading our work and of obtaining entry to the regions we wish to reach.
(14) Since Spanish is the language spoken in twenty different countries covering almost the whole of one continent and part of another, and extending throughout the world, the Spanish delegation has the honour to submit the following requests to the President of this Conference:
1. That a delegate from a Spanish-speaking country shall be included in every committee appoin- ted to undertake preparatory work, and more particularly those committees entrusted with the task of drafting or collating documents. This would also appear to be advisable in view of the fact that about one-third of the delegates normally attending our Conferences are Spanish-speaking and use Spanish as their mother tongue, and not merely as a secondary or working language.
(15) It would, moreover, be in the interest of our Organization to grant this request, for Spanish - 62 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s III-5 is one of its official working languages and it may be assumed that the Spanish version of a commit- tee’s conclusions will be more reliable and better expressed than the version of a professional translator, who is obliged to work on texts already drawn up in other languages.
2. That the Chairmen of such committees shall take steps to ensure that all texts and docu- ments submitted for our consideration shall be distributed in Spanish sufficiently far ahead of the meetings.
3. That care shall also be taken to supply us with interpreters on the occasion of such public de- bates as the present.
(16) The PRESIDENT - I should like to say that if this point had been raised when the Drafting Com- mittee was being constituted, I would certainly have included a member from the Spanish-speaking areas. We all have the highest respect for Spanish culture and what it has achieved. I am glad also to note that, in spite of the absence of a Spanish member, the draft resolution is being supported by the representative of their culture. As for the documentation, the Secretariat will certainly take note. I call upon the delegate of Switzerland.
(17) Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland) - (Translation from the French) Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say a few words in explanation of the draft resolution we are about to submit to you. I shall be brief, for as Mr. Piaget told you yesterday, we take the view that the interim measures the Executive Board has asked the Director-General to apply are not only incom- patible with the Constitution and with the Staff Regulations, but are also superfluous.
(18) The Staff Regulations, if applied in a loyal and forthright manner, make it possible for the Director-General to take full account of the wishes of all the delegations present at this Conference. That is why I ask for separate votes to be taken. There should be one vote on the draft resolution submitted by the Drafting Committee, which we are prepared to support, and another separately, on the draft that I should now like to read to you again: “The General Conference requests the Director-General to suspend until further decision of the General Conference the application of the interim measures not contemplated by the Constitution of Unesco and by the Staff Regulations. ”
(19) Mr. SALOMON (United States of America) - On behalf of my Government, I want to compliment the Drafting Committee on their action in bringing forth an agreement that proved acceptable to the vast majority of the Drafting Committee. A fine attitude of co-operation was manifest which is typical of the spirit of Unesco. while the document does not represent wholly what we would have preferred, I would say that the United States delegation agrees to it and hopes that it can be voted on promptly so that we can proceed with the other business before this short session.
(20) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) - (Translation from the French) Mr. President, fellow delegates, I am delighted to learn that the Drafting Committee has produced a compromise which may prove sa- tisfactory to all the delegations. The Japanese delegation will vote for this draft resolution, with one comment, one reservation, which I would ask you, Mr. President, to have included in the Re- cords.
(21) I do not wish to deal with the substantive question of the duties of an international official; I see no need to dwell on that point, for I think I have made my attitude sufficiently clear at the meet- ings of the Executive Board. I should like to speak on a point rather similar to that raised by the Italian delegate at yesterday’s meeting, regarding the position of those countries which are Members of Unesco but not of the United Nations. As you are well aware, some fifteen of the Member States of this Organization are not Members of the United Nations. They are Austria, Cambodia, Ceylon, the German Federal Republic, Hungary, Japan, Jordan, Korea, Laos, Libya, Monaco, Nepal, Spain, Switzerland and Viet-Nam. Without counting Hungary, which has to all intents and purposes ceased to co-operate with us, there therefore remain about fifteen Member States of this Organization - about a quarter of our total active membership - which are not Members of the United Nations. Ob- viously these countries will not all wish to be bound by a decision taken by an Organization to which they do not belong. Unesco’s relationship with the United Nations is clearly defined in Article X of the Constitution of Unesco, quoted yesterday by the Indian delegate, which says that “This Organi- zation shall be brought into relation with the United Nations Organization, as soon as practicable, as one of the Specialized Agencies referred to in Article 57 of the Charter of the United Nations. This relationship shall be effected through an agreement with the United Nations Organization under Article 63 of the Charter.” That agreement exists, and contains a definite stipulation regarding co-operation between these two Organizations in questions of personnel policy. The stipulation is embodied in Article XIII, quoted only yesterday by the delegate of the United States of America, which says that the United Nations and Unesco recognize that the eventual development of a single unified international civil service is desirable from the standpoint of effective administrative - 63 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   III-5 P l e n a r y M e e t i n g s co-ordination, and that with this end in view, common personnel standards, methods and arrange- ments should be developed to avoid serious discrepancies in terms and conditions of employment, to avoid competition in recruitment of personnel, and to facilitate interchange of personnel in order to obtain the maximum benefit from their services. The Article goes on to say that the United Nations and Unesco “agree to co-operate to the fullest extent possible in achieving these ends and in particular they agree to” - I quote here from paragraph (b) - “consult together concerning . . . matters relating to the employment of their officers and staff, including conditions of service . . D with a view to securing as much uniformity in these matters as shall be found practicable”.
(22) It seems to me that the draft resolution now before us says much the same things as Article XIII of the existing Agreement between the two Organizations, and if this draft resolution is adopted I hope it will not be interpreted in such a way as to increase Unesco’s commitments to the United Nations. It is with that reservation, and on that understanding that this resolution does not increase Unesco’s commitments to the United Nations, that the Japanese delegation will support it.
(23) Mr. ZURAYK (Syria) - Mr. President and fellow delegates, I do not wish to lengthen the dis- cussion unduly or to present any formal amendment, but I would like to make a brief declaration. In the mind of the Syrian delegation, we would have liked to have the fourth paragraph read, instead of the phrase: “will be in accord with.. ", the phrase: ‘ . . . will be worked out in agreement with ...", because in the mind of the Syrian delegation at least, the best policy should be the result of consultation and agreement between Unesco and the United Nations and other Specialized Agencies, and there should be no implication at all that Unesco will follow a policy already made by the United Nations and the other Specialized Agencies. With this reservation, the Syrian delegation will vote for the resolution.
(24) Mr. STANKOVIC (Yugoslavia) - (Translation from the French) I have the honour to inform you that the delegation of Yugoslavia supports the proposal of the Swiss delegation, and considers that the Conference should take a decision thereon.
(25) Mr. DAOUD AMMOUN (Lebanon) - (Translation from the French) Mr. President, gentlemen, in a text of this importance even the smallest details count, and I agree with the French delegation that in the French text of this resolution the word “reserve” should be written without an “s” in the phrase “sous réserve des dispositions”. That word should be in the singular and not in the plural, otherwise the meaning may be altered. That is all I wanted to say.
(26) The PRESIDENT - We have first to vote on the Swiss amendment supported by Yugoslavia. (A delegate asked if this was a separate draft resolution or an amendment.)
(27) The PRESIDENT - We will take this up later. I now put to you the main resolution on item 15, without the amendment. Those in favour? Those against ? The resolution is carried without oppo- sition. APPLICATION TO UNESCO OF THE EXECUTIVE ORDER OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, DATED 9 JANUARY 1953
(28) The PRESIDENT - We now come to the draft resolution presented by the delegation of Switzer- land and seconded by the delegation of Yugoslavia. It relates to item 12 on our agenda. Any discus- sion? Those in favour of the draft resolution? Those against? 28 against, 12 for, and 12 absten- tions. The motion is rejected. I call upon the delegate of France.
(29) Mr. JUVIGNY (France) - (Translation from the French) Mr. President, the French delegation would like to explain its decision to abstain from voting. This decision was based on the document put before us under 2 XC/7 Addendum 2. In that document, the Executive Board announces its in- tention of extending the interim measures, subject to reconsideration by the Board at its Thirty- sixth Session. We hold that in the present circumstances it will be, or should have been, for the Board to reconsider the question of these interim measures, more especially in the light of action that may be taken by other authorities, and here I am thinking of the decisions that may be adopted by the Assembly of the United Nations. In view of the Swiss proposal and of the fact that the pro- ceedings were being conducted too rapidly to give us time to speak in support of this standpoint beforehand, we were obliged to abstain from voting. - 64 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s III-5
(30) Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil) - (Translation from the French) Just one word, Mr. President. The highest hopes are permissible, after the joy we have all felt at achieving unanimity on a motion which we had at first regarded as surrounded by so many difficulties. As the Swiss proposal has been rejected by a large majority, I should merely like to express a wish, which may or may not find support, Mr. President, but which I should like to have put on record. At the time when the Executive Board, faced with considerable internal difficulties, took the responsibility of proposing the interim measures with which you are familiar, it had had no opportunity of learning the views of the majority of delegations from the Member States which are attending this meeting. I think the Board, aware that it is in duty bound to reflect the opinion of the General Conference with the great- est possible accuracy, will voluntarily undertake to reconsider its interim recommendations in the light of the discussion which has taken place here, and I am sure we can rely upon it to show the greatest possible fidelity to the views expressed in the resolution we have unanimously adopted.
(31) Mr. de ICAZA (Mexico) - (Translation from the Spanish) Mr. President, fellow delegates, I should like, after the event, to explain my reasons for voting in favour of the Swiss delegation’s motion. If I understood it correctly, that motion proposed the suspension of the interim measures not contemplated by the Staff Regulations. The delegation of Mexico was in full agreement with this proposal, inasmuch as the provisions now in force, and in particular Staff Regulations 9.1 and 10. 2 can only be interpreted in the way in which the Acting Director-General has interpreted them.
(32) Sir Ben Bowen THOMAS (United Kingdom) - I merely rise in order, if possible, to expedite our business. Now that we have disposed of the general resolution that was so well redrafted for us by the Drafting Committee, may I suggest that we now dispose, Mr. President, of item 12 on our agenda, which we are now discussing, by receiving the papers 2 XC/7 with their annexes and noting their contents. I beg to move to that effect.
(33) Mr. NOGUEIRA (Uruguay) - (Translation from the Spanish) I am particularly anxious to ex- plain my abstention from voting on the Swiss motion. It was based on the same reasons as those given by the delegate of France.
(34) The PRESIDENT - Those who are in favour of this motion on item 12 - that we receive the papers and note the contents? Those against? Abstentions? The motion is accepted. REPORT OF THE ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL ON REGULATION 1.6 OF THE STAFF REGULATIONS
(35) The PRESIDENT - We pass on to item 13. I call upon the Acting Director-General.
(36) The ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL - Mr. President, document 2 XC/8 refers to the applica- tion of Regulation 1. 6 of the Staff Regulations (Remuneration). I shall not take the time of the Con- ference by going through the arguments set out. I think they are reasonably succinct and clear. I might say that I found it difficult to administer this regulation at Unesco and I therefore commend to you very strongly the draft resolution which is on page 2 of document 2 XC/8, paragraph 11.
(37) The PRESIDENT - On item 13 of the agenda the following is the draft resolution which we are called upon to consider and approve: “The General Conference resolves To amend Regulation 1.6 to read as follows: ‘Except as hereinafter provided, no member of the Secretariat shall, during the period of his appointment, accept any honour, decoration, favour, gift or remuneration from any government or from any other source external to the Organization. The Director-General may authorize such acceptance in respect of services rendered before appointment or for war service. He may au- thorize the acceptance of honours and prizes from educational, scientific or cultural organizations and the acceptance of remuneration for work done by a member of the Secretariat in his spare time provided that such work is not incompatible with his status as an international civil servant.“’
(38) The ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL - Mr. President, I might say in explanation that the first five lines of that regulation are substantially the same as now exist, and the change requested be- gins in line 3 from the end with the words: ‘I., . and the acceptance of remuneration for work done by a member of the Secretariat in his spare time provided that such work is not incompatible with his status as an international civil servant. ” - 65 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   III-5 P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s
(39) The PRESIDENT - The delegate of the German Federal Republic moves the acceptance of the proposed change and the delegate of the United Kingdom seconds it. The resolution is adopted. CONSIDERATION OF COMMUNICATlONS RECEIVED FROM THE GOVERNMENTS OF CZECHOSLOVAKIA AND HUNGARY
(40) The PRESIDENT - We pass on to the communications received from the Governments of Czechoslovakia and Hungary. The first draft resolution relates to Czechoslovakia: “The General Conference, Having taken note of the communication addressed to the Acting Director-General by the Czecho- slovakian Ambassador in France, announcing, on the orders of his Government, Czechoslovakia’s decision to withdraw from the Organization;
1. Declares that the allegations contained in the aforesaid communication are completely un- founded; and Considering that the Organization was set up to ensure the co-operation of all the nations of the world in the field of education, science and culture; Considering that the Member States of Unesco have, in consequence, recognized the universal character of the purposes and functions of the Organization. which has always faithfully observed the principle of universality in all its activities;
2. Invites the Government of Czechoslovakia to reconsider its decision, and to resume its full collaboration in the Organization’s activities. ” Any remarks? Those in favour? Those against ? Abstentions? The resolution is adopted.
(41) We have now the same resolution, with the substitution of “Hungary” for “Czechoslovakia”. Those in favour? Those against ? Abstentions? The resolution is adopted.
(42) I would like to read to you the draft resolution submitted by the General Committee. The cir- culated document (2 XC/DR/G, rev.) has undergone certain changes. “The General Conference, Considering that the Organization has always observed the principle of universality in all its acti- vities; and Taking note of the resolutions adopted by the General Conference at its Seventh Session and its Second Extraordinary Session, concerning the communications received by the Organization from the Governments of Poland, Hungary and Czechoslovakia; Invites the Director-General to forward these resolutions to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, with the request to bring them to the attention of the appropriate organs of the United Nations. ”
(43) Count de CASA ROJAS (Spain) - (Translation from the Spanish) Mr. President, fellow dele- gates, the Spanish delegation is prepared to subscribe to the General Committee’s draft resolution, but would like to know why we should have recourse to the United Nations in order to make our wishes known to the countries concerned, because, as has already been said by some of our col- leagues who are not Members of the United Nations, we non-members do not understand how we can turn to the United Nations to transmit a resolution we have adopted. Would it not be better for the General Committee, or the Executive Board, or the Director-General, to communicate direct with the Governments which are being asked to reconsider their attitude, rather than choose a round- about way?
(44) The PRESIDENT - Any other comments ? If not I will put the resolution as here circulated to the vote. The Spanish proposal was to send the resolution to the Governments directly and not to the United Nations. but this motion has not been seconded. It must be seconded before I can put it to the vote. I recognize that Lebanon supports the Spanish proposal. The Spanish proposal is that the phrase “Invites the Director-General to forward these resolutions to the Secretary-General of the United Nations” be omitted.
(45) Mr. DAOUD AMMOUN (Lebanon) - (Translation from the French) Mr. President, gentlemen, we are confronted by a question of procedure, and it is difficult to form a final opinion without having the text before us; but the Lebanese delegation supports the Spanish delegation because the latter is right with regard to one specific point; Hungary too is not, I believe, a Member of the Uni- ted Nations. So far as Hungary is concerned, therefore, it would hardly be possible for us to com- municate with the United Nations. On that point at least, the delegation of Spain is perfectly right in what it says.
(46) The PRESIDENT - Are there any other speakers ? The motion of the Spanish delegation, - 66 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s III-5 supported by Lebanon, is before you first. In view of the fact that certain countries mentioned that they were not Members of the United Nations, they felt the approach should be made directly to Governments, and not through the United Nations. The Spanish proposal will be read now.
(47) Mr. MONTAGNIER (Secretary of the General Conference) - The suggestion is that the third paragraph should now run as follows: “Invites the Director-General to forward these resolutions to the Governments of these three countries, asking them to reconsider the question of their relations with Unesco. ”
(48) The PRESIDENT - The particular measure inviting the Governments to reconsider their deci- sion has already been approved in the resolutions we have adopted. All that is now said is that the invitation to the United Nations be dropped. Those for the Spanish proposal that the invitation to the United Nations should be dropped? Those against ? Abstentions? The Spanish proposal is adopted by 26 for; 12 against; and 7 abstentions. I call upon the delegate of the United States of America. DISCUSSION ON THE UNITED STATES DRAFT RESOLUTION ON THE WITHDRAWAL OF MEMBER STATES FROM THE ORGANIZATION
(49) Mr. PERKINS (United States of America) - I wish to thank you most heartily for having done me the very great honour of electing me to the Executive Board.
(50) I should at this time, however, like to present a draft resolution to make it possible to take action on withdrawal at the General Conference, if we should want to do so at that time. With that in mind the United States delegation proposes the following resolution: “The General Conference requests the Director-General and the Executive Board to submit to Member States, in time for consideration at the Eighth Session, the necessary amendments to the Constitution to provide for withdrawal from membership in the Organization. ”
(51) I should like to make a few comments that will clarify our reasons for offering this proposal. Unesco has adhered to the concept of universality of membership, and my Government has fully supported this concept and continues to do so. But it is to be regretted that any Member State, having once subscribed to the Constitution of Unesco, should find it desirable to withdraw from the Organization. It is even more difficult and unfortunate, it seems, that the withdrawal should be based upon the reasons set forth in the letters of withdrawal submitted by the States of Poland, Czechoslovakia, and Hungary. The draft resolution before the Conference provides additional time for these countries to consider the resumption of their relations with the Organization and the as- sumption of those responsibilities which all membership implies. At the same time, the General Conference cannot indefinitely, it seems to us, maintain the fiction of membership States, which have in fact withdrawn and which have ignored their responsibilities. They were firm in their de- termination - in the case of Poland by taking no action on the resolution passed at the Seventh Ses- sion - to withdraw and have no further relationship with this Organization. Our amendment will assure simply that the General Conference at its Eighth Session will have the opportunity to adjust its operations to the situation that exists, since it will, by the terms of this draft resolution, be able to consider an amendment to the Constitution providing for withdrawal. b(52) There are several practical considerations that I am sure are obvious to you and that you have in mind. They might be mentioned later if our proposal is adopted. Meanwhile we will be faced with the necessity of making assessments against these Member States that have withdrawn. It is on the basis of such assessments that we must estimate income for the next biennium. The Organiza- tion cannot be in the very anomalous position for all time to come of continuing assessments against Member States that have declared they are not Members. It would be really futile to make assess- ments against such States when they have declared a year or more in advance that they were no longer Members, the implication being that they had no further intention of contributing to the work of the Organization. It is for those reasons that we submit this proposal.
(53) Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) (Chairman of the Executive Board) - I should like to explain the position of the Executive Board in this matter which it considered when it was examining the communications from Hungary and Czechoslovakia. At its Thirty-fourth Session the Board studied the legal position regarding the absence of any provision for withdrawal from the Constitution. There were advantages in including such a provision but, on the other hand, the very close similarity between the position of Unesco and that of the United Nations was considered. The United Nations Charter does not make any such provision. The Conference for revision of the United Nations Charter is planned for 1956. The Board thought that Unesco should await the outcome before - 67 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   III-5 P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s proposing any change in its own Constitution in this respect. The Board therefore decided not to propose any amendment to the Constitution at present but is keeping the matter under review in the light of any developments in the United Nations.
(54) Mr. MIGONE (Italy) - (Translation from the French) I wish to support this proposal. It would seem reasonable that if someone no longer wishes to belong to a club, he should be entitled to re- sign from it; of course one prefers that no such case should arise. I appreciate the highly ideal- istic view that was taken in foreseeing the possibility that a Member might leave us, but this is also a recognition of the freedom of decision of every Member. The Italian members of the Execu- tive Board supported this view before the Board, and I should like to make it clear that the Italian delegation is prepared to agree; on condition that a discussion is held regarding the manner of amending Unesco’s Constitution, a step which will be proposed in due time.
(55) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) - (Translation from the French) The Japanese delegation supports the United States proposal which has been seconded by the Italian delegation. As Sir Ronald Adam has said, this question was discussed by the Executive Board, but there was a minority which took the view that the question of revising the Constitution must be considered, and should continue to be considered. The reason given by Sir Ronald is that the Charter of the United Nations is to be re- vised in 1956 and that that Charter and the Constitution of Unesco must to a certain extent be kept in line with each other. There is undoubtedly something to be said for this; but at the same time we are well aware that most of the Specialized Agencies have a clause authorizing Members to withdraw from the Organization. All the organizations, though linked to the United Nations by a special agreement, have to retain their independence, and this similarity between the United Nations and Unesco should not be over-emphasized. This is, I think, the attitude of most States which, like ours, do not belong to the United Nations, and I need not remind you that it is not by our own wish that we are excluded from that Organization. Accordingly, without trying to carry the similarity too far, we should preserve in this Organization the essential basis of the Constitution. The draft resolution submitted by the United States delegation does not call for a revision of the Constitution; it suggests that the Director-General and the Executive Board should, without prejudging the question in any way whatever, continue to consider the possibility of amending the Constitution (or so it appears to me) and instructs them to pursue the study of the question. Those who disapprove of inserting provisions permitting withdrawal will certainly have an opportunity of discussing the matter at Montevideo, and I think it would be advisable to adopt the draft resolution submitted by the United States delegation.
(56) Mr. CAIN (France) - (Translation from the French) Without wishing, as has previously been said, to exaggerate the parallelism between the procedure of Unesco and that of the United Nations, I should like to say that I agree with the reservations made just now by the Head of the United King- dom delegation. I feel that the motion submitted to us raises a very important problem, and one that few of us have studied thoroughly before coming to this Conference. I think the matter can be considered; the United Kingdom delegate suggested it could be studied by Unesco while it was also being studied by the United Nations. In any event, improvization would, it seems to me, be unde- sirable, and for that reason I shall not support the motion.
(57) If you will allow me, I should like to add a few words. The last vote we took concerned a reference to the United Nations. As you will all have realized, that vote took place amid the great- est confusion. Indeed, some of us were not clear as to whether the case of Hungary was to be re- ferred to the United Nations or not, We were confronted by a draft resolution which did not seem to us to have been worded clearly enough. I consider that now we are about to conclude this Con- ference - for it is soon to be concluded, without preliminary studies - any improvization is unde- sirable. That is why I am in favour of what was said by Sir Ronald Adam.
(58) The PRESIDENT - The proposal by the delegation of the United States of America is this: “The General Conference requests the Director-General and the Executive Board to submit to Member States, in time for consideration at the Eighth Session, the necessary amendments to the Constitution to provide for withdrawal from membership of the Organization. ”
(59) Mr. de ICAZA (Mexico) - (Translation from the Spanish) Mr. President and fellow delegates, I feel obliged to make the strongest reservations regarding the form in which motions are being submitted to us and the manner in which we are voting on them. It is impossible to vote on amend- ments or motions unless they are clearly drafted in the three working languages and we are given sufficient time to study them. Notwithstanding this reservation, I should like to say here and now that if a vote is taken on the United States motion, the delegation of Mexico will vote against it, on the following grounds: - 68 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s III-5
(60) The Mexican delegation takes the view that Unesco is a world-wide Organization, working on a high spiritual level, and we therefore do not consider that the Constitution can legitimately con- tain a clause legalizing the withdrawal of Members. The departure of any Member State should be regarded as a simple question of fact, and we think that whenever anything of the kind occurs, it should be made clear that Unesco would be interested and delighted to see the States concerned re- suming their co-operation with the Organization at the earliest opportunity. The delegation of Mexico even considers that any State which may withdraw should be kept regularly supplied with Unesco publications, and thus be constantly informed as to the progress of the Organization’s work. I thank you.
(61) Mr. DAOUD AMMOUN (Lebanon) -(Translation from the French) Mr. President and fellow dele- gates, I shall be extremely brief. I think we should do well to adopt the suggestion made just now by the delegate of France, because the mere fact of preparing an amendment of this kind in the present state of international feeling may be regarded as being significant, If, at the present juncture, we decided to consider methods of enabling certain Member States to withdraw, we shall appear to be accelerating the procedure for such withdrawal. I am not suggesting that a State can be kept in this Organization against its will, but I think it is more important - because, as was said just now, Unesco has always maintained the concept of universality - to leave the door open for them. This on the matter of principle.
(62) As for procedure, it must be admitted that an amendment to the Constitution of Unesco is something rather important. We ought either to consider all the necessary amendments together, or leave things as they are, so that we can return to the question later on and study it rather more closely. The manner in which the present motion is expressed makes it possible, of course, from the practical standpoint, to reach a solution on a point for which no provision is made in the Con- stitution. We are well aware, however, that such a provision was deliberately omitted from the Constitution. To provide at present for this change of principle, for this change of form, would be to indicate a tendency which, at a time when the international spirit seems to be moving towards conciliation, might be misinterpreted. The Lebanese delegation will therefore support the motion of the delegate of France on this point.
(63) Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) (Chairman of the Executive Board) - I should like to make an explanation. I was not speaking on behalf of the United Kingdom. I was referring to what happened at the Executive Board without taking any side whatever.
(64) Mr. DUPUY (Canada) - (Translation from the French) Mr. President, fellow delegates, I feel that we are almost all agreed on essentials. Two points must be borne in mind. We want to know who are with us, and we hope that even those who are not represented at this Conference are with us in heart and spirit. We also hope to be able to leave the door wide open to enable those who may so desire, unconnected, I may say, with any other Organization, to share in our work and perhaps help to create that sense of spiritual and intellectual fellowship without which even the greatest and most active organizations cannot find the inspiration which will keep them in life. The door must therefore be left open. On the other hand, however, I feel that if I were the Director- General of Unesco I should perhaps spend sleepless nights thinking about my budget and asking myself on whom I could count. It is all very well to say “I shall submit a balanced budget”, The budget has to be drawn up in the ‘light of the funds actually available. This view of the question must also be considered, and I shall be glad if the motion we are about to vote enables the Secre- tariat and the Executive Board to make constructive proposals to that end at our next meeting, at Montevideo, in order to facilitate the task of our Organization and ensure its continued existence and its expansion.
(65) Mr. PERKINS (United States of America) - I would simply like to point out that we are not de- ciding at this time whether or not these people who propose by their own motion to withdraw can do so. We are merely suggesting that we put ourselves in a position at the time of the Montevideo Conference to adopt some method of withdrawal should we think it desirable.
(66) I should also like to point out that we make it even more difficult for these countries to enter into the full participation that we all should like them to assume by continuing in our present ano- malous position; for if these countries, as sometimes happens, should desire to resume their activity in Unesco, and we hope they will, they would be called upon to pay up their full assessment. That would be such a burden to them financially that in itself it might preclude their taking part actively in our Organization. On the other hand, if they were to withdraw, there is always an opportunity for them to return, and they will be heartily welcomed, I am sure, by all of us. It would be a more practical arrangement if we should decide at - 69 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   III-5 P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s Montevideo to accept their withdrawal and recognize it simply as a matter of fact.
(67) Mr. MIGONE (Italy) - (Translation from the French) I must confess I did not think we should be plunged into such arguments. I thought it was quite clearly proposed to study a question and not to settle it either in principle or in detail. The expression “open door” has been used; and of course the door must be left open, open to everybody, to those who wish to come in, to those who wish to go out, to those who wish to return. I would like to echo what the Canadian Ambassador has just said to us: all men of goodwill are and remain members of Unesco.
(68) The PRESIDENT - We have had a proposal by Mexico and France that the matter be deferred until the draft resolution is circulated to the members of the Conference. That is also according to our Rules of Procedure. As a general rule no draft resolution can be discussed or put to the vote unless copies have been circulated in the working languages to all delegations not later than the day preceding the meeting. I should like to know whether the Conference agrees with the sug- gestion made by Mexico and France to defer this matter till tomorrow, by which time this resolu- tion will be distributed in the working languages. Those for deferring? Those against? It is your wish that the matter be deferred and the document circulated in the working languages. DISCUSSION ON A SCIENTIFIC AND CULTURAL HISTORY OF MANKIND
(69) The PRESIDENT - Professor Carneiro would like to make some observations on the Cultural and Scientific History of Mankind.
(70) Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil) - (Translation from the French) I merely wish to put a few facts be- fore this Extraordinary Session of the General Conference. I am quite aware that the circumstances in which it was convened debar it from adopting measures outside the strict limits of its powers and competence. But under the system of biennial conferences, those who have been entrusted by the General Conference with any particular task have to take advantage of every extraordinary meeting in order to supply the Member States with the fullest possible information regarding the progress made.
(71) I am merely the representative of this assembly in my office of Chairman of the International Commission for a Scientific and Cultural History of Mankind. I shall continue to exercise that function so long as this assembly and the General Conference desire to maintain and preserve this Commission, which was established by Unesco, for Unesco. It is, therefore, neither as delegate of Brazil nor in my private capacity that I come before you with this report and warn you of a grave situation. I speak on your behalf, on behalf of this assembly, which during the last four or five years has adopted a series of resolutions relating to the establishment and development of an In- ternational Commission for a Scientific and Cultural History of Mankind. It is in your name that I am speaking.
(72) In the first place I should like to remind you that I have addressed a letter to the Director- General of Unesco, informing him that your hope of finding funds outside the ordinary budget of Unesco to meet the needs of the Commission during 1954 has not been fulfilled. I have approached the publishers you suggested, and various institutions whose names will certainly also have occur- red to you; but none of these sources has provided the sum of $30,000 which, as stated by the Com- mission, was deducted in the hope that special funds would be found elsewhere. I am not discussing the merits of the previous decision. I am simply pointing out that it was regarded by the General Conference itself as implying that an attempt would be made to raise funds from extra-budgetary sources. I should mention that, since our last meeting, the Journal of the Commission - which, as you know, is to be issued periodically and to summarize the original contributions, criticisms and commentaries received - has gone to press. Professor Lucien Febvre, the editor of this series, has already received enough paid contributions to fill about three issues. We have signed contracts with the publisher selected by the Commission. We have a world-wide network of contributors who are making surveys and carrying out research in accordance with contracts signed by the Com- mission. We have affiliated National Commissions in forty-two Member States. We have some twenty advisers in a number of States and in several ideological groups working in association with the Commission. The six responsible editors have been selected and are now at work, with signed contracts. The arrangements are: Volume I, Mrs. Jacquetta Hawkes and Professor Henry Frank- fort, United Kingdom; Volume II, Professor D. L. Pareti, Italy, with the assistance of Professor P. Brezzi; Volume III, Professor Wiet, France; Volume IV, Professor L. Gottschalk, United States; Volume V, Professor Jorge Basadre, Peru; Volume VI, Professor K. Zachariah, India.
(73) The machinery has therefore been set in motion, with a whole team of scholars, historians, - 70 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s III-5 National Committees and advisers. Are we to stop short on 1 January 1954? If this were a Gene- ral Conference, I should put this question to you in budgetary terms; either the General Conference must allocate the necessary funds for the Commission to continue its task, or the Commission must abandon its task and the sum involved must be written off. This assembly is not in a position to take such a decision and I cannot ask you to do so. What I do ask you is, in some way, to record your wish that the Executive Board of Unesco, the only body which during the period between two general conferences has authority to take decisions of this kind, should be invited to give very careful consideration to the difficult situation of this Commission, which was set up by this as- sembly, and to supply it before 1 January 1954 with the additional funds which, despite all its ef- forts, it has not succeeded in obtaining elsewhere. I may add that I have gained the support of a big American publishing house, which is prepared to conclude a contract with us for the six volumes of the History (two of them in condensed form) and for any popular works on the subject that it may be possible to issue in English. This firm is prepared to make us an advance of $30,000 in res- pect of the whole body of publications entrusted to it. If that advance becomes payable as from
1954 - I do not want to trouble you on this occasion with points of detail regarding the Commission - we shall receive it over a period of five years; so that for 1954 I can only count on an advance of $7,500 which this big publishing firm is prepared to make to us. I am therefore asking you whether you desire the Executive Board to consider the possibility of supplying us, from the budget of Unesco, with the further sum of $20,000, without which the work you have set in motion, which has already cost you $121,000 and for which you have approved a total expenditure of $400,000, will inevitably come to a stop on 1 January 1954.
(74) Mr. CAIN (France) - (Translation from the French) I should like to say a few words in support of Professor Carneiro’s proposal. He is the Chairman of a Commission whose task is to prepare a History of Mankind; but Unesco too has its history - a long history already - and I should be sorry if we were to give the impression that Unesco is withdrawing the proposals it approved at various Conferences, in fact ever since that held in Mexico. This question has been on the agenda every year since then. Successive general conferences have given their full approval to this project. Thanks to a Commission composed of the most distinguished scholars it has been put into operation and has taken clearer shape. It would be a disappointment, a disappointment to all concerned, if this undertaking were to come to an end for lack of funds. As you have just been re- minded, an act of faith was recorded during the last General Conference. The hope was expressed of finding funds outside Unesco. I should therefore like to support Professor Carneiro’s proposal and ask the Executive Board to make it possible for this task to be carried on until the Montevideo Conference can consider the problem as a whole.
(75) Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium) - (Translation from the French) Mr. President, my task has been made much easier by the fact that Mr. Julien Cain has just put forward all the arguments I intend- ed to use. This project goes back a fairly long time and I hope Mr. Cain will not be offended if I correct him on one small historical point. The idea of a cultural and scientific history of mankind goes even further back than the establishment of Unesco; the Conference of Allied Ministers, which met in London during the war, regarded the carrying out of the project as a most important task, as something essential which should be completed without delay.
(76) This being so, I should like to express my warm support of the request made to you by Mr. Carneiro. He has taken exceptional pains to ensure the success of a project which has been diffi- cult to steer and has been exposed to the perils of both Scylla and Charybdis. We want to bring it safely into harbour. The machinery has been set in motion, as Mr. Carneiro said just now. We can hear it creaking slightly; but all it needs is a little oil in the wheels in the form of $20,000 or so.
(77) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) - (Translation from the French) Mr. President, as Chairman of the Programme Commission I should like to remind this assembly that at the last session of the Gene- ral Conference that Commission unanimously approved the project for a Scientific and Cultural History of Mankind. As Mr. Julien Cain and Mr. Verniers reminded us just now, it has been in- cluded in the programme of Unesco since the Mexico Conference, and it has known many vicissitudes but we are delighted that the first numbers of the “Journal” are now about to appear. That is why I wanted to remind you that the Programme Commission unanimously approved this project and its continuation during the last session. At the present moment the project for a Scientific and Cultural History of Mankind is hampered by insurmountable financial difficulties, and the suggestion made by the Chairman of the Commission is quite legitimate. It is that the Executive Board should be authorized to assist the Commission out of the ordinary funds of Unesco. I take great pleasure, therefore, in supporting Mr. Carneiro’s proposal. - 71 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   III-5 P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s
(78) Mr. TOSCANO (Italy) - (Translation from the French) Mr. President, fellow delegates, it is always unfortunate when a subject with a fairly long past history has to be discussed in a great hurry, and I should like to ask you for some further particulars. The question of the History of Mankind has given rise to lengthy debates during past conferences. The last conference decided to reduce the funds it had been intended to provide, on the strength of a hope which has not been ful- filled. We now find ourselves, as the Chairman of the Commission for a History of Mankind has pointed out, in a somewhat difficult position. and we have to discover a way out. The necessity of raising funds should not, however, lead us to make decisions likely to endanger a programme al- ready approved by the last General Conference. That is why, though I support Mr. Carneiro’s pro- posal, I should like to make one reservation. I would recommend the Executive Board to find a way of aiding the Commission in its task without prejudice to the implementation and completion of the programme approved by the last General Conference.
(79) The ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL - I think the Conference should be told the facts concern- ing the possibilities of help for this project. I would remind you that, in order to get the money, $30, 000 shall I say, which the History of Mankind project needs, the Director-General and the Ex- ecutive Board -would have to reduce the programme in some way in 1954. Or again, this Conference could say that the Director-General and the Executive Board should accord high priority on the basis of transfers or any possible surplus in this budget. I want, however, to remind you of the fact that the Working Capital Fund has been used, in accordance with the resolution of the Seventh Session of the General Conference, for emergency educational reconstruction aid in Korea to the extent of some $18,000 on the Working Capital Fund of the current year and some $18,000 on the Fund for the following year. The resolution which permits the use of the Working Capital Fund states very clearly that this may be done only if there is no possibility of transfer or surplus in the budgets of the years concerned. Accordingly, even if this Conference should give priority to the $30, 000 that we need in 1954 for the History of Mankind project, we would only be able, in the light of the reso- lution of the Seventh Session of this Conference, to get those $30,000 after we have saved $18,000 which have already been devoted to the Korean project.
(80) There is one other possibility that as an administrator I hesitate to mention, but since it exists, I shall indicate it to you and point out its advantages and disadvantages. This Conference is sove- reign and it could resolve to provide the required $30, 000 from the Working Capital Fund and ar- range for repayment when the budget for 1955-56 is established in Montevideo. I should like to in- for ril you, so far as I know, how the Working Capital Fund has been used in the past. The General Conference has been exceedingly strict, and to the best of my belief, it has recognized only two reasons for resorting to the Working Capital Fund. One of these is an emergency. But that does not mean an emergency in connexion with our programme but an emergency in the world, such as educational reconstruction in Korea, the outbreak of war and the like. The only other occasions on which this Fund has been used have been when it was impossible at the time for the General Confer- ence to indicate how much a project would cost. There is thus a possibility of authorizing recourse to the Working Capital Fund. You are well aware of the budgetary position of this Organization for these two years and I am sure you recognize that it may be difficult to find the money when the 1955 and 1956 budgets are discussed in Montevideo. Such are the advantages and disadvantages of these possibilities.
(81) What I might suggest is that the Chairman of the History of Mankind project and certain members of the Secretariat should get together in the course of the noon-hour, let us say, and see if they can prepare a draft for consideration later this afternoon. The Chairman of the Executive Board would certainly be with us in this type of discussion.
(82) The PRESIDENT - I take it that you agree to the suggestion made by the Acting Director- General. DISCUSSION ON THE DRAFT RESOLUTION RELATING TO THE GANDHIAN WAY"
(83) The PRESIDENT - We now take up item 14 - Consideration of the report of the seminar on the contribution of Gandhian outlook and techniques to the solution of tensions among and within nations
(2 XC/9, Annexes 1 and 2). I call upon the delegate of India.
(84) Mr. MUDALIAR (India) - Just before I entered Unesco House this morning a friend of mine said, referring to the possibility of this item being taken immediately after item 15, it is peace . after a storm. I did not agree with him that there would be a storm, but I did agree that, SO far as the discussion on this particular item was concerned, there would certainly be a calm atmosphere. - 72 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s III-5
(85) I should first of all like, on behalf of the Indian delegation, to express my thanks to the Exe- cutive Board and to this General Conference for including this item on the agenda, though the notice was submitted rather late. My Government has deemed it desirable that this subject should be brought to the attention of the Conference after the seminar held in India from 5 to 17 January, when the distinguished representatives of several countries participated in the discussions. It was also thought that the most appropriate forum for consideration of this seminar and its proceedings was Unesco, because of the similarity of objectives. In the preamble to the Constitution of Unesco it is stated, “That since wars begin in the minds of men, it is in the minds of men that the defences of peace must be constructed. ” We believe that the Gandhian seminar and the Gandhian way of thinking hold a definite place in the promulgation of the ideas of Unesco.
(86) Mr. President, in your opening remarks you expressed in your own inimitable way some of the views of Mahatma Gandhi and you said how practical they were and how applicable to the present world situation. I believe that, in view of the present tensions both national and international, of the differences that are constantly arising between nation and nation and between groups of indivi- duals within the nation and between individuals themselves, of the opposing interests of capitalism and labour and of the clashing interests of race, creed, colour and even sex, there is a place for the Gandhian outlook, which may contribute to composing these differences and reducing tension. Mahatma Gandhi during his lifetime not only preached but put into practice every one of his teachings, and in that respect he was perhaps a very different preacher from the many who preceded him, how- ever great they were as saints and saviours. Mahatma Gandhi always felt that the practical reali- ties of the world should be taken into consideration in the application of any of those principles. It may be that, not realizing instantly what his objectives were, we may not always be able to appre- ciate his viewpoint unless we carefully consider and study the methods that he adopted and the ideals that he held. He always felt that the cause of the poor should be taken up in the interests of the rich and that any principle that involved relieving the sufferings of the poor not only helped the poor, but what is more important, helped the rich as well.
(87) “Beware the pine tree’s withered branch”, sang the poet Longfellow in “Excelsior”. We may say “Beware the dire poverty of the poor  ‘I, “Beware the awful avalanche”, that is, the terrible strength of the great ones of this earth. These are the two great dangers Mahatma Gandhi saw to peace in this world. The withered branch will fall on rich and poor alike and crush them both. The awful avalanche will descend and bring destruction and devastation to many; but in the very process of destruction and devastation it will destroy itself. The parallel is exact, and therefore Gandhi in his way of life said that we should take note of the poor and of the rich, remembering that unless the poor are saved and made to realize that they are as good as the others, there will be a danger to the world. And remember also, he said, that if the strength of the rich and of the great is not mel- lowed by work for their own countrymen and for the world at large, there will always be trouble. Gandhi was not an Indian citizen, but a citizen of the world. For that reason we feel that the teach- ings he has brought to the notice of the world should be considered by the world at large. He made prison what it ought to be. When he was in prison he could have exclaimed: “Stone walls do not a prison make, nor iron bars a cage.”
(88) This was absolutely true, not only for himself, but for many of his countrymen in times of stress. I do not want to elaborate this point. All that I wish to say is that, in the teachings of Mahatma Gandhi, we feel there is a message which the world needs at present, a message which it needs more than at any other time, and in a world of conflict and tension there is something to be said for the study of the Gandhian way of life which can probably ease this tension and bring relief to the world. From this point of view, we suggest that Unesco should be the chief Organization for promoting peace and goodwill and removing tension and should study this question and bring it be- fore the nations of the whole world. In the belief that we shall be contributing something to peace, to the relief of tension and to humanity at large, we bring this draft resolution to your notice.
(89) I have therefore much pleasure in proposing an amendment which has been suggested to the original resolution submitted by the Government of India in the following terms: “The General Conference Decides to refer to the Executive Board and to the Director-General the report of the seminar on - the contribution of Gandhian outlook and techniques to the solution of tensions within and among nations for study of the possibilities of implementation of the measures proposed by the Indian Government in the programmes for 1953-54 or in the draft programme for 1955-56. ”
(90) Sir Ben Bowen THONLAS (United Kingdom) - May I, on behalf of the United Kingdom delegation, have the pleasure and the privilege of seconding this motion. We do so on several accounts. We do so, in the first place, because it affords us pleasure to recognize the great interest and support that the work of Unesco commands in India. In the second place, we do it because it represents to us a very important aspect of our seminar work, namely, that the work once done in the seminars - 73 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   I I I - 5 P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s should be put at the disposal of a wider circle of people. Here in this valuable report we have the concentrated findings of the members of the seminar placed at the disposal of the members of this Conference and therefore desire that they should be more widely known. On the other hand. we are very well aware, after the discussion we have just heard on. the difficulties facing the Chairman of the Commission that is concerned with the History of Mankind, how difficult it will be, in the im- mediate future, at any rate, to find the resources to extend these possibilities. At the same time, we are glad there will be an opportunity, when the programme is considered at Montevideo, to see what the Executive Board can suggest as technical ways and means of making the findings of this seminar very much more widely known. For that reason, Mr. President, I have much pleasure in seconding the motion put before us by the Head of the Indian delegation.
(91) Mr. COORNAERT (France) - (Translation from the French) Ladies and gentlemen, the French delegation would like to associate itself most warmly with the tribute paid to Gandhi, and is also glad to support the suggestion just made by a member of the United Kingdom delegation, that the tech- nical ways and means of acting on the proposal of the delegate of India should be referred to the General Conference which is to meet at Montevideo. Needless to say, all of us here recognize, in the name of Unesco, the admirable example set by Gandhi and the uplifting effect of his lifework on the great masses of the population in India and throughout the world. I feel, however, that before proceeding to practical action we should make a preliminary technical study, if only with a view to ensuring the further extension of this undertaking at a later stage.
(92) Mr. LAVES (United States of America) - The delegation of the United States of America on behalf of whom I speak here would like to associate itself with the proposal that has been placed be- fore us so eloquently by the distinguished delegate of India. We have studied with great care the results of the seminar which has been held on the Gandhian way. We have been impressed by the possibilities of increasing the prospects for developing an honest understanding among the peoples of the world - that honest understanding which must be the foundation of a true and a lasting peace. We would like therefore to give our very strong support to the proposal on the question of how Unesco may avail itself of the precedent which has been set, and how it may best continue to work along these lines, and we agree that the Executive Board be asked, as the resolution suggests, to look into the possibilities of extending the seminar findings. Naturally, of course, Mr. President, as was said by the delegate of the United Kingdom, the problem of ways and means unfortunately arises even in respect to the best of projects, and we would assume therefore that it will be the first task of the Executive Board to consider the possibility of bring forward a proposal which could come up again at the Montevideo Conference, for implementation of this project.
(93) Mr. CHOUKOUR WALI (Afghanistan - (Translation from the French) Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, as delegate of Afghanistan I have had the opportunity of forming a high opinion of Gandhi’s work, especially his efforts on behalf of peace, and I hope the proposal of the delegate of India will be favourably considered.
(94) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) - (Translation from the French) The delegation of Lebanon has re- ceived from its Government a cable instructing it to support the proposal of the delegate of India. and I should like to express my agreement with what Dr. Laves suggested just now, that in drawing up the programme for 1954-1956, the Executive Board should include in the agenda the proposal for a seminar on the Gandhian way of international peace.
(95) Mr. AGUNG GDE AGUNG (Indonesia) - I think it unnecessary to restate the principles of the work done by Mahatma Gandhi, especially in India, and to describe the influence that that work has had in my country. Gandhi’s legacy to the Asian people, and especially to India and to Indonesia, is so great that I fully approve, on behalf of my Government, the proposal of the delegate of India in this matter. I therefore trust there will be strong support for this matter, so that we can continue the work of the seminar which was held during this year in Delhi, and I hope that the Executive Board will be able to establish a programme. The Montevideo Conference will provide an opportunity for drawing up a detailed programme to put before the General Conference and for thus meeting the wishes of the seminar at Delhi this year. For the Asian countries - and especial- ly my country - it is important that this work be continued and be recognized by this international organization, since Gandhi is not only an artist but the promulgator of a creed in the Asian peoples’ struggle for independence.
(96) Mr. NAKAYAMA (Japan) - It is unnecessary for me here to repeat the reasons for supporting the Indian proposal which have been so eloquently put forward by previous speakers or to dwell on - 74 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s III-5 the many-sided influence of Mahatma Gandhi’s philosophy throughout the world. I merely wish to say on behalf of the Japanese delegation that I most warmly support the proposal.
(97) As a newcomer to a Unesco Conference, may I utter a word of criticism. 1 have been unable to ascertain the names of the delegates and would have been glad to receive a complete list of the members representing the various countries.
(58) Mr. PARRA-PEREZ (Venezuela) - (Translation from the Spanish) The delegation of Venezuela, which is in entire agreement with the views expressed by various delegations regarding the proposal of the delegation of India, has the pleasure and the honour of supporting that proposal, and hopes that the Executive Board and the Director-General of Unesco will bear it in mind when drawing up the work programme to be submitted to the General Conference at Montevideo.
(99) Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia) - Mr. President and fellow delegates, I should like first of all to thank you for electing me to the Executive Board. I also thank those who, because of instructions received from their Governments, could not vote for me but who in the end wished me success.
(100) I do not think that the discussion of the Gandhian way should be concluded without a word from the representative of an old African Republic, because I think it was in Africa that Gandhi had a dream and it was in Africa that he had an opportunity for the first time of applying this dream. It is therefore a coincidence that on the very day and at the time when Unesco first elected an African member on its Executive Board, the Gandhian way came up for discussion on the agenda of the Conference. I give the proposal my full support and hope that the coincidence I have mentioned will prove an augury of success for the Organization and the world at large.
(101) The PRESIDENT - The resolution is as follows: “The General Conference Decides to refer to the Executive Board and to the Director-General the report of the Seminar on the Contribution of Gandhian outlook and techniques to the solution of tensions within and among nations, for study of the possibilities of implementation of the measures proposed by the Indian Government in the draft programme for 1955-56. ” The resolution is adopted unanimously. The meeting rose at 1 p. m. - 75 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.