P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s III-3 THIRD PLENARY MEETING Thursday, 2 July 1953, at 10.55 a.m. President: Dr. SARVEPALLI RADHAKRISHNAN (India) C O N T E N T S Resignation of Dr. Luther Evans from the Executive Board. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43 Consideration of the resignation of Mr. Vladislav Ribnikar from the Executive Board. . . . . . . . 43 RESIGNATION OF DR. LUTHER EVANS FROM THE EXECUTIVE BOARD
(1) The PRESIDENT - I have to inform delegates of the decisions reached this morning in the Gene- ral Committee. The installation of the new Director-General will take place on Saturday at 10.30
(2) We shall now consider immediately the resignation from the Executive Board of Mr. Ribnikar and Dr. Luther Evans. The Chairman of the Executive Board will propose the addition of an item for consideration for the purpose of filling the vacancy created by the resignation of Dr. Luther Evans from the Executive Board. After that we shall deal with the letters from Czechoslovakia and Hungary. In the afternoon, we will make a beginning with the Staff Regulations question and then go on to the contribution of Gandhian outlook and techniques. That is the programme as decided at present. I now call upon Sir Ronald Adam.
(3) Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) (Chairman of the Executive Board) - Resulting from the election yesterday, I have the authority of Dr. Luther Evans to announce his resignation from the Executive Board. That leaves a vacancy on the Board for the United States member.
(4) The PRESIDENT - I take it that the addition of this item to the agenda has the approval of the General Conference. CONSIDERATION OF THE RESIGNATION OF MR. VLADISLAV RIBNIKAR FROM THE EXECUTIVE BOARD
(5) The PRESIDENT - The following letter has been received from Mr. Ribnikar, Yugoslavia: (Translation from the French) “To the President of the General Conference Sir, Paris, 2 July 1953 I am instructed by Dr. Vladislav Ribnikar to inform you that, to his deep regret, he finds it im- possible to withdraw his resignation as he feels that the reasons which he gave to the Unesco Gen- eral Confernce at its last session still hold good. Needless to say Dr. Ribnikar will always be ready to assist personally in achieving the lofty ideals pursued by Unesco and to do all that lies within his power in this direction. I have the honour to be, etc., Dr. Sinisa Stankovic, Delegate of Yugoslavia. ” - 43 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   III-4 P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s
(6) The PRESIDENT - I am sorry that Mr. Ribnikar persists in his resignation. We accept it with the utmost regret and we express our appreciation of his great services to the Executive Board and to the Conference during the time he officiated here. The Nominations Committee will meet at once to elect two members in place of Mr. Ribnikar and Dr. Luther Evans.
(7) Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom) (Chairman of the Executive Board) - I should like, if I may, to say a few words on behalf of those members of the Executive Board who knew Dr. Ribnikar. He was a highly valued member of the Board and we all personally regret his decision. He contributed a great deal to our meetings. He did not talk much, but his advice was always sound and to the point. We all felt we had a friend on the Board, and it is with the deepest regret that we now learn that his resignation is irrevocable. I did my best to persuade him not to go, but I failed. I wish to pay a tribute to him here and to express the great regret of all the members of the Board. The meeting rose at 11.5 a. m. FOURTH PLENARY MEETING Thursday, 2 JULY 1953, at 3.45 p.m. President: Dr. SARVEPALLI RADHAKRISHNAN (India) C O N T E N T S Report of the Chairman of the Nominations Committee; election of two members of the Executive Board . . Communication from the Argentine Embassy . . . . Interpretation or amendment of Staff Regulations with respect to standards of integrity . . . . . . . . .
46 REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE; ELECTION OF TWO MEMBERS OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD
(1) The PRESIDENT - I call upon the Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
(2) Mr. BENDER (Netherlands) (Chairman of the Nominations Committee) - Mr. President and fellow delegates, I have the honour to report that the Nominations Committee met at noon today to consider the nomination to the General Conference of members of the Executive Board to fill the va- cancies caused by the resignations of Dr. Luther Evans and of Mr. Ribnikar. I have been asked by the President to tell you that on 2 July 1953 he received a letter from Dr. Luther Evans resigning from his position on the Executive Board. In accordance with a proposal which was unanimously approved, the nominations for the vacant seats were considered separately. The proposal of the Head of the United States delegation was that Dr. John A. Perkins, United States of America, should be elected to serve until the close of the Ninth Session for the unexpired term of office of Dr. Luther Evans. This suggestion was supported by the Heads of the delegations of the Netherlands and of Brazil and was adopted by acclamation. Perhaps, Mr. President, you would like to deal with this case first,
(3) The PRESIDENT - We shall take up this question first. The Nominations Committee has nom- inated unanimously, by acclamation, Dr. Perkins for the unexpired portion of Dr. Luther Evans’ membership of the Executive Board. Does this General Conference approve of that nomination? - 44 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.