VI-11.2 H e a d q u a r t e r s  C o m m i t t e e Committee might be an “ex officio” member of the Committee of Art Advisers. He thought that Mr. Breuer’s proposal to add a second representative of the working architects was an excellent one.
(36) Referring to the draft resolution on pages 2 and 3 of document 11 HQ/3, Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) moved the deletion of the last line of paragraph 5 on page 3, and the insertion of the following new paragraph 6: “Delegates to the Director-General the responsibility of deciding, in the light of the advice provided for in this resolution, whether a work of art offered to Unesco should be accepted or rejected”. Adopted. The meeting rose at 12. 55 p. m. SECOND MEETING Monday, 29 June 1953, at 3.30 p. m. Chairman: Mr. PARRA-PEREZ (Venezuela) ITEM 4. GIFTS AND WORKS OF ART (11 HQ/3) (continued)
(1) The CHAIRMAN opened the meeting and reminded members that they had to complete item 4 of the agenda.
(2) Mr. DAVIES (Australia) read the English text of the draft resolution to be inserted in section 5 on page 2 of document 11 HQ/3 and apologized that there had been no time to make a French translation.
(3) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) after congratulating the Rapporteur upon the speed with which the draft resolution had been drafted, pointed out, in connexion with section 4 (a), that a general plan would have to be drawn up for Member States. Mr. DAVIES (Australia) suggested meeting his point by inserting, in paragraph 5 on page 3 of the document in question, the words “in accordance with the general plan established” between “whether” and “they wish”.
(4) Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil) strongly emphasized his view that the draft resolution should make some mention of the Headquarters Committee, as it was a body set up by the General Conference and consisted of representatives of Member States. He thought that the Panel of Five should form a kind of sub-committee of the Headquarters Committee, which should itself send to the Director- General the report of the five architects. It would be risky to set up too many independent bodies. Mr. Carneiro therefore suggested substituting “Headquarters Committee” for “Director-General” in paragraphs (a) and (b) of the draft resolution.
(5) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) thought that the difficulty could be settled by substituting the words “in the light of the advice available” for “on the advice available” in paragraph 6 of the draft resolution.
(6) The ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL held that recourse to the advice of the Panel of Five was optional; responsibility for the choice of the furniture and decoration rested not with the five inter- national architects, as might be gathered from paragraph 5 (page 3 of document 11 HQ/3), but with the three architects appointed, as specified in the second paragraph of section 3 (page 2 of document
11 HQ/3). The Acting Director-General accordingly suggested reversing the order of paragraphs
5 and 6. - 140 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   H e a d q u a r t e r s  C o m m i t t e e VI-11.2
(7) Mr. BOUCHARD (France), supported by Mr. POMPEI (Italy), proposed another amendment to paragraph 4 (a) of the draft resolution submitted by Mr. Davies, as follows: “(a) preparer, pour le Directeur general en consultation avec le Comité du Siege, . , . ” (the rest unchanged. )
(8) The ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL, supported by Mr. DAVIES (Australia), agreed to the de- letion, in paragraph 4 (a), of the phrase “in consultation with architects”; but he was afraid that the amendment proposed by Mr. Bouchard might create difficulties. He felt that a liaison should be provided between the Committee of Art Advisers, on the one hand, and the Director-General and the Headquarters Committee, on the other hand, to enable them to remain in permanent contact.
(9) Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil) contended that the Headquarters Committee was giving up too many of the responsibilities entrusted to it by the General Conference and that its policy was suicidal. In his opinion, the buildings as a whole were inseparable from their decoration; the Headquarters Committee should therefore advise the Director-General both as to the buildings and their decor- ation. Mr. Carneiro was formally opposed to making the Panel of Five independent of the Head- quarters Committee and said that he might bring the matter up again before the General Conference.
(10) The ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL stated that Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) was suggesting that paragraphs 4 to 6 should be inserted in the resolution and become paragraphs 2, 3 and 4, to be followed by the former paragraphs 2 and 3. In this way, the functions of the Headquarters Commit- tee would be brought out more clearly.
(11) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) held that the Headquarters Committee should act in advisory and not in an executive capacity; the Director-General should therefore be allowed full discretion to seek the advice of the Headquarters Committee or not, as he chose.
(12) The CHAIRMAN having asked the views of Mr. Saba (Legal Adviser) on that point, the latter gave it as his opinion that, according to Mr. Bouchard’s interpretation, the Headquarters Commit- tee acted as an advisory body, not only for the Director-General but also for the services respon- sible for preparing the plans, even before those plans had been submitted to the Director-General.
(13) The CHAIRMAN, summing up, stated that it had been unanimously decided to delete, in para- graph 4 (a) of the draft resolution presented by the Rapporteur, the words “in consultation with architects”, and he enquired whether Mr. Bouchard really insisted on replacing it by “in consulta- tion with the Headquarters Committee”. Mr. BOUCHARD (France) said he was prepared to with- draw his proposal if Mr. Carneiro and Mr. Pompei agreed.
(14) Reverting to paragraph 6, Mr. DAVIES (Australia) proposed the following new wording: . . . in the light of such advice as he may decide to obtain under the present resolution . . . “. Mr. BOUCHARD (France) personally preferred the following wording: ".. . en s’entourant des avis qu’il lui est possible de recevoir aux termes de la présente resolution . . . ”
(15) At the CHAIRMAN’s request, Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) explained that the expression “a la lumière de” could be taken in an imperative sense; the new wording proposed by Mr. Davies left the Director-General full latitude to seek advice or not, whereas Mr. Bouchard's new wording went back to the first interpretation. Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) said that he would prefer “in the light of”. Mr. DAVIES (Australia) then suggested “in the light of such advice as he may seek”. Mr. THOMSON (United States of America) proposed accepting the Director-General’s suggestion that paragraph 2 should become paragraph 6, and that the last wording proposed by Mr. Davies should be approved.
(16) The CHAIRMAN put to the vote Mr. Thomson’s proposal, supported by Mr. Cowell and Mr. Bouchard. Adopted by a majority, with one vote against and no abstentions. ITEM 3 - CONSIDERATION OF THE DRAFT LEASE OF THE QUARTIER FONTENOY SITE (11 HQ/2)
(17) The ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL, supported by the CHAIRMAN and all members of the Committee, expressed his gratitude to the representatives of the French Government and the mem- bers of the Secretariat, especially Mr. Saba and Mr. Montagnier, who had helped to prepare the draft. - 141 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   VI-11.2 H e a d q u a r t e r s  C o m m i t t e e
(18) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) stated that only the French text was authentic, as the English text was merely a rather hurried translation made by an English lawyer. He explained that the draft lease solved a number of difficulties raised by the problem of building on a site belonging to a third party. Article 2 authorized the renewal of the lease at the end of the first 99-year period for fur- ther successive periods of 99 years, although, in principle, French law did not authorize leases of more than 99 years. Article 4 also settled a complicated problem: if Unesco decided to transfer its Headquarters to another place in France or outside France and ceased to use the premises it- self, it could. with the consent of the French Government, transfer the benefit of the lease to another international organization; but not to a private individual. In the absence of any such tran- sfer to an international organization, the lease would terminate automatically after a period of four years from the day on which the Organization notified the French Government of its intention to vacate the premises. In that case, the French Government would have the option of purchasing the buildings at a price to be determined by the market value of the premises at the time of purchase - the transfer to be made either by agreement or by arbitration. However, if the option was not exercised within a year, Unesco would have an option to purchase the site at its market value, such transfer also to be made either by agreement or by arbitration. That was a most important con- cession granted by the French Government, since, according to French law, buildings belonged to the owner of the site on the expiry of long-term leases. However, Article 8 provided that the lease should not become final until it was approved by the French Parliament. That decision might not be obtained by 1 January 1954. A guarantee from the French Government would then be required, to- gether with authorization to begin building as from the date in question; the French Government would further undertake to refund the expenses incurred in building, should Parliament fail to give its approval - which was highly improbable.
(19) Mr. THOMSON (United States of America) had two points to make. With regard to Article 4, he enquired what would happen in the case of ‘Porte majeure”, such as an outbreak of war. Secondly, he asked whether the Secretariat could give figures for the expenses referred to in Article 6.
(20) In reply to the first question, Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) did not think that any case of “force majeure” could arise in connexion with Article 4. The Organization might then be obliged to transfer its Headquarters provisionally; but the provisions of that Article were operative only when the Organization had notified the French Government of its intention to vacate the premises permanently. After all, a case of “force majeure” could arise only if, upon the expiry of a normal period of ninety- nine years, Unesco were not in a position to correspond with the French Government, but the time limit for notification could then be automatically extended.
(21) With regard to City, Police and Highway Duties, Mr. MONTAGNIER explained that they were only for services rendered. In the current year, $2, 750 had been paid under that heading for the premises Unesco was occupying at the moment. For the Place de Fontenoy, an amount of $3, 500 had been ear-marked. In reply to Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom), Mr. Montagnier explained that the Organization was already paying these taxes.
(22) The CHAIRMAN stated that document 11 HQ/2 would be referred to the General Conference with the Committee’s recommendation. ITEM 5.1 - HEADQUARTERS OFFICE (11 HQ/4 (Addendum to document 10 HQ/2))
(23) The ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that, in accordance with the Committee’s request at its last session, the Secretariat had endeavoured to draw up more detailed budget estimates for the Headquarters Office. He regretted that it had been necessary to increase the previous estimate of roughly $175,000 to $197,629 - a change due to increased Indirect Personnel Costs, in accordance with the Secretariat’s new policy in that respect. The Acting Director-General strongly recom- mended the Committee to accept those budget estimates.
(24) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) enquired whether the Secretariat had made sure that there was adequate and clearly defined liaison between the Director-General and the architects. The ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained that the Director-General could not evade that responsi- bility because he needed the Headquarters Office. If the work were contracted out, there would be a danger of overlooking possible mistakes until it was too late.
(25) Mr. THOMSON (United States of America) suggested that the Headquarters Committee should - 142 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   H e a d q u a r t e r s  C o m m i t t e e VI-11.2 delegate to the Burea, consisting of the Chairman, Vice-Chairman and Rapporteur, responsibility for liaison with the Panel of Five, as defined in Article 2.
(26) Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil) enquired whether the meetings of the Panel of Five would be suspended when the plans were completed, or whether they would continue at least until work had begun on the building. The Headquarters Committee would not know when it was necessary to advise the three architects, in the first place because it was not qualified to do so and, secondly, because it would not be keeping a close watch on the work during the following six months. He suggested that the Headquarters Committee might decide to convene the Panel of Five before the buildings had been completed and even before the work began, and to hear the views of the five architects in four, five or six months’ time, when the detailed designs were completed. Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) pointed out that such a procedure was possible under resolution 29.2 (c).
(27) The CHAIRMAN stated that document 11 HQ/4 would be referred to the Conference with the Committee’s recommendation. ITEMS 7 AND 8 - METHODS OF COVERING COST OF EQUIPMENT AND MATERIAL (11 HQ/6) - TABLE COMPARING ANNUAL EXPENDITURES ON HEADQUARTERS BUILDING (11 HQ/8)
(28) The ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL stated that the French Government expected to be able to start paying the instalments of the additional loan of $1. 000,000 before 1957. When the Organi- zation stopped paying the rent of the Kléber building, the money thus economized could be used to cover the cost of the move to the Place de Fontenoy. Expenditure connected with the new Head- quarters building would therefore not appear in the budget before 1957.
(29) Mr. MONTAGNIER explained that Unesco would also apply to the “Caisse des Dépôts et Consignations” for the additional sum to cover equipment and material; however, in this second case, the French Government had requested that the amount be reimbursed within a shorter time - probably within twenty years.
(30) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) wished to pay tribute to the sympathetic and helpful attitude of the French Government. He asked for an assurance that, in the case of the second maximum amount envisaged, it was a question, not of a sum of 2,500 million francs, but of the equivalent in French francs of the sum of 7 million dollars.
(31) Mr. BOUCHARD (France) explained that the first sum of 2,100 million French francs corres- ponded to 6 million dollars; the new ceiling which might be proposed to Parliament was 2,500 million francs, corresponding to the additional sum needed for equipment. As the latter estimate was only approximate, the Ministry of Finance had settled on a round figure which should cover such an increase.
(32) After associating himself with Mr. CowellIs tribute to the French Government, Mr. DAVIES (Australia) proposed that the following sentence should be inserted on page 3 of document 2 XC/3, between paragraphs X. 1 (3) and X. 1 (4): “To authorize the Director-General to purchase, at a cost not exceeding $1,080,000, the necessary equipment and material”. The ACTING DIRECTOR- GENERAL agreed to the above proposal, which was seconded by Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom).
(33) Requesting an explanation of two minor points, enquired whether the words “considerably shorter”, Mr. THOMSON (United States of America) in the fifth line of the last paragraph of document 11 HQ/6, meant a period of twenty years. Secondly, he wondered what was meant by “which, in principle, would be thirty years”.
(34) Mr. BOUCHARD (France) explained that the principle of a thirty-year loan was still generally accepted, but, in the (case of the second loan, the “considerably shorter” period had not yet been officially defined; he believed, however, that the Ministry of Finance envisaged a rather shorter period than the twenty years mentioned by Mr. Montagnier.
(35) Mr. MONTAGNIER pointed out that a period of twenty years was in fact “considerably shorter” than a period of thirty years, and if reimbursement had to be effected, for example, in fifteen years, each repayment would amount to $72,000, as opposed to $54,000 in the case of reimbursement over a period of twenty years. - 143 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   VI-11.2 H e a d q u a r t e r s  C o m m i t t e e
(36) Mr. THOMSON (United States of America) having asked if expenditure for the Headquarters Office, amounting to approximately 200,000 dollars, was included in the total of 6 million dollars, the ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL referred the Committee to document 2 XC/3, Annex IV, page 2, where there was a “credit balance available” of $143, 095. 68. He added that it had taken the Sec- retariat a long time to prepare the estimates and it had had to work at high speed, so that they were bound to be only approximate.
(37) Mr. VALEUR (France) regretted that he had been unable to be present at the beginning of the meeting and was very touched by the cordial welcome he had received. He was glad to be able to announce that the first instalment, of the loan granted by the French Government, at Unesco’s re- quest, i. e. a sum of 200,000, 000 francs, was henceforth at the Organization’s disposal, as a result of the steps taken by the “Caisse des Depôts et Consignations”.
(38) Mr. DAVIES (Australia) asked whether the Secretariat had accepted the French Government’s offer to reimburse expenditure incurred in connexion with the Porte Maillot site. The ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL replied that the Secretariat had not yet received any funds, but that negoti- ations were in progress.
(39) At the CHAIRMAN’s proposal, it was agreed to transmit both documents under discussion to the General Conference. REPORT OF THE RAPPORTEUR
(40) The CHAIRMAN announced that Mr. Davies had already prepared his report; he assumed that the Committee would have no objection to leaving that to the Rapporteur, without a further meeting.
(41) In view of the many proposals which he had made and which had not been seconded, Mr. CAR- NEIRO (Brazil) requested that the minutes of the current session be communicated to the delegations of Member States. Mr. MONTAGNIER pointed out that there was very little time in which to re- produce the two summary records before the Extraordinary Session of the General Conference, and further, that the minutes of the other sessions of the Headquarters Committee had not been communi- cated to Member States, because the report had not yet been distributed. Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil) did not intend to press his proposal, but was a little surprised to learn that Member States were not kept more fully informed about meetings of a body composed of representatives of Member States. Mr. MONTAGNIER replied that the Headquarters Committee was an organ of the General Confer- ence and that, in such cases, the Secretariat did not circulate the minutes unless instructed to do so by the Conference. The Committee could, however, if it so desired, recommend a different procedure to the Conference.
(42) The CHAIRMAN thought that the matter could be settled at the next session. The meeting rose at 8 p. m. - 144 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.