P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s III-7 SEVENTH PLENARY MEETING Saturday 3 July 1953, at 10.45 a. m. President: Dr. SARVEPAL RADHAKRISHNAN (India) C O N T E N T S Draft resolution on withdrawal from membership of the Organization (continued) . . . . . . . . . . 97 Discussion on the membership of the Headquarters Committee. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98 Installation of the Director-General . . . . . . . . 103 DRAFT RESOLUTION ON WITHDRAWAL FROM MEMBERSHIP OF THE ORGANIZATION (continued)
(1) The PRESIDENT - The draft resolution before us relates to the withdrawal of Member States from the Organization. I am informed by the United States delegation that they withdraw their motion (2 XC/DR/8) in favour of the one presented by the delegations of Denmark, Sweden and Norway (2 XC/DR/ 10). It reads: “Hoping that Unesco will continue to adhere to the principle of universality of membership but recognizing that withdrawals may at times become inevitable involving certain serious financial problems in drawing up the biennial budget of the Organization, this General Conference requests the Director-General and the Executive Board to consider the matter of withdrawals from the Organization and if appropriate, draft amendments to the Constitution to provide for such with- drawals”.
(2) That is the only resolution now before the meeting. During. I call upon the delegate of Sweden, Mr.
(3) Mr. DURING (Sweden) - I wish to comment very briefly on this resolution and emphasize one point. The draft resolution expresses the desire to adhere to the principle of universality. The main problem regarding withdrawal is the financial problem arising from the fact that certain Mem- ber States do not pay their contributions. This always creates serious difficulties when we have to prepare the annual or biennial budget. The resolution leaves the matter entirely and in full confi- dence to the Executive Board, and I wish to stress the concluding words by which we ask the Board to consider the matter of withdrawals and, if appropriate, to draft amendments to the Constitution. We do not say when we expect the Board to do this. We leave the matter in full confidence to its discretion. We have no time to consider this important question at the present brief Conference. With these comments I recommend the draft resolution for your approval.
(4) Mr. CAIN (France) - (Translation from the French) The French delegation made certain reservations at yesterday morning’s meeting regarding both the form and the substance of the draft resolution which was submitted to you. It is glad that this draft resolution has been withdrawn. Our delegation declares its acceptance of the Scandinavian draft resolution.
(5) The PRESIDENT - The motion is seconded by France. Any observations? I take it you agree to this resolution. Agreed. - 97 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   III-7 P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s DISCUSSION ON THE MEMBERSHIP OF THE HEADQUARTERS COMMITTEE
(6) I am told that a suggestion made yesterday is still before the house, namely, that the number of the members of the Headquarters Committee be raised from fourteen to fifteen. Consideration of this suggestion was postponed until this morning. I call upon Mr. Raadi, Iran.
(7) Mr. RAADI (Iran) - (Translation from the French) I have asked to speak in order to submit an explanation, or rather a rectification regarding yesterday’s vote. The question of increasing the membership of the Headquarters Committee was considered at the end of the discussion on the seat of the Organization. The ensuing debate led to some confusion, the result being that when the President asked whether the vote should be taken yesterday or deferred until today, some of our number, including myself, understood that the vote was to relate only to the choice of day. As this matter was not cleared up, some of us wanted time for reflection and abstained from voting. At all events, that was the reason for my abstention. When it was announced later that the vote had been taken on the resolution, I thought it my duty to explain or rectify my action. The delegation of Iran will enthusiastically support the setting up of the Headquarters in Paris and the construction of the building in this town. If the vote is regarded as final, we very readily agree to the resolution, and I would ask you to permit me to make a rectification in that sense.
(8) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) - (Translation from the French) There was some confusion at yes- terday afternoon’s meeting when we had to vote on an increase in the membership of the Headquar- ters Committee, when the President decided to uphold the first resolution raising the number to Fourteen, and when the last proposal to increase the number to fifteen was maintained. I do not dispute the President’s decision; I should like merely to draw the attention of the Conference to the fact that in future, when proposals of this nature are submitted, the Nominations Committee should first be approached so as to enable the General Conference to decide later. You will remember that at the last session of the Conference, Mr. Bender, Chairman of the Nominations Committee, prepared a very full list showing the allocation of Member States between the various Committees. Geographical distribution, as we understand it, does not apply to a single committee. But as re- gards the various committees that have a longer or shorter life, like the Headquarters Committee or the Budget Committee, which continue in being until the opening of the following session, the Chairman of the Nominations Committee should see that the same countries are not always repre- sented. Practically all Member States should be included in one or other of such committees. In my opinion, it is essential to follow this practice and not to act as we did yesterday. If a vote is to be taken today on the appointment of a fifteenth member, I hope, Mr. President, that you will ask the opinion of the Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
(9) Mr. NIELSEN (Denmark) - Mr. President, let me say at the outset that, like the previous speaker, I of course abide by the President’s ruling at yesterday evening’s meeting that a decision taken by this General Conference should stand, although it is true that, at other conferences, cases have occurred where a resolution has been formally voted by the conference and afterwards rev- ersed by it. That does not, however, apply now.
(10) Secondly, I want to make a short remark which has a bearing on the whole system of Unesco’s methods of appointing commissions. As I said yesterday, our delegation was not in favour of raising the number of members of the Headquarters Committee, chiefly because we think that in such a delicate matter a small body can do more effective work than a large one. I shall not go further into that question, as I spoke about it yesterday. But other questions have to be taken into consideration, and that again concerns the whole policy of establishing commissions and committees. There is, first of all, the question of cost. It is true that, as Mr. Carneiro reminded us yesterday afternoon, his membership of the Headquarters Committee has entailed no expense for the Organi- zation since he had received no remuneration for taking part in the meetings of the Committee. Admittedly, that is true in his case, but it does not apply in every case. It does not hold good for a Member State which has no permanent resident representative at Headquarters. In such a case there are two alternatives if the said Member State is elected to serve on a commission or commit- tee and a meeting is called. Recourse may be had to a member of the staff of the embassy of that country here in Paris. Although this arrangement may be satisfactory in many cases, we cannot expect the embassies to have people competent in regard to all questions. The second possibility is that a Member State would send an expert to the meeting. The question then arises of the cost of his journey. This may be borne by him or by his Government, or it may have to be reimbursed by our Organization. Thus the question of economy in our Organization can arise.
(11) The third point, to which the delegate of Japan also referred, is the principle which was in- voked yesterday - that of geographical distribution. I must frankly confess that in a case like that - 98 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s III-7 of the Headquarters Committee - a purely technical body - I cannot see that the principle of geo- graphical distribution has any relevance. Here the only consideration in my view should be to ap- point the most competent people. On the other hand, the question of geographical distribution can and does arise in the general system of commissions and committees. There, of course, I adhere, like the preceding speaker, to the principle that when a series of commissions and committees is set up, the principle of geographical distribution should be taken into consideration. This might well be done on the advice of the Nominations Committee.
(12) One last remark. We were unanimous yesterday that our Headquarters Committee had done magnificent work, and we paid a tribute to that Committee and to its distinguished Chairman, Mr. Parra-Perez. It seems to our delegation rather illogical not to draw the conclusion that we should also entrust the task of completing the work to the same group.
(13) I wish to stress these considerations here because I think they have a bearing not only on this particular question of the Headquarters Committee, but on the whole policy of our Organization in setting up special committees and commissions for specific tasks.
(14) The PRESIDENT - The Acting Director-General will say a word.
(15) The ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL - Yesterday the Head of the Indian delegation asked me a question which I did not have the opportunity to answer, since the debate was adjourned until this morning. The question was whether an increase in the size of the Headquarters Committee would mean an increase in the cost. I want to make it clear that it does not cost Unesco more money as far as its own budget is concerned, except perhaps for a few more hours of interpretation - because it would take a larger committee longer to operate than a smaller one - and except for a few pencils and sheets of paper. The cost, of course, as was so clearly indicated by Mr. Nielsen, is borne by the governments, and not by the budget of Unesco.
(16) Mr. VERNIERS (Belgium) - (Translation from the French) I shall begin by saying that I fully endorse all the observations, ideas and suggestions and all the criticisms expressed by my friends Mr. Haguiwara and Mr. Nielsen. I would venture to agree with the Acting Director-General, after first of all thanking him for answering the question I asked yesterday, that an increase in the mem- bership of the Committee naturally costs Unesco nothing more than the price of a few pencils and sheets of paper. However, if the condition mentioned a moment ago by Mr. Nielsen is not satisfied and if the members of the Committee are not permanently settled in Paris, someone must meet the cost of travel and residence and, whether it is borne on the budget of a Member State or on the Unesco budget, the expenditure can be regarded as unnecessary.
(17) I shall not dwell on the question of making up committees from members of the embassies in Paris. I have the highest consideration and the warmest friendship for my diplomatic friends; but as Mr. Nielsen said, they are not qualified to speak on all subjects and the various embassies in Paris do not have specialists and technicians available to place at the disposal of Unesco. I should like to say for the information of this assembly, which includes many members and colleagues who are here for the first time and who are not fully aware of the position, that this Committee origin- ally consisted of five, six or seven members - I no longer feel sure of the exact number. The States were, however, selected at that time because they had permanent representatives here in Paris. The reason for this was that the Committee had to be able to meet fairly often for very short periods, and in the future it will have to meet again on various occasions. There seems then little reason to enlarge it. The membership was afterwards raised from seven to eleven by a regular vote, and to fourteen yesterday by a snap vote. It is now proposed to increase it to fifteen. Why not make the number twenty-one? Or thirty-five. Why not put all the Member States on the Committee? The geographical distribution would then be really observed fully and completely and no one would have any reason in future to make any criticism. However, as Mr. Nielsen said, we are dealing with specialists, technicians and people who by their training and qualifications are entitled to give an opinion.
(18) I do not wish to press the point further and should not like, especially in regard to the Head of the Canadian delegation who was in the Chair yesterday, to take up again the question of proce- dure. The vote has been cast. Let us place it on record and make the best of it, as our English friends say. I should like nevertheless to mention in passing, without wishing to raise the question or proposing to discuss it fully at present, that according to the Rules of Procedure, there is nothing to prevent me, by submitting the-text of a resolution with a request for the necessary twenty-four hours’ delay, from proposing that the Committee should consist not of fourteen or fif- teen, but of five members for example, specially chosen for their qualifications. There might be two jurists - a notary and an advocate; two engineers, one of them being a town planning expert, and the fifth, the Chairman, who would be polyvalent. That would perhaps have been the wiser - 99 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   III-7 P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s course to adopt. I believe therefore that we are on the wrong path: I think we have made a mistake, and if to err is human, to persist in error is diabolical. Even if the devil appears under the aus- pices of Mgr Maroun - I hope he will pardon me - we should nevertheless be suspicious. Now I would say that, while I agree to maintain the Headquarters Committee at twice seven, i. e. fourteen members, I emphatically object on behalf of the Belgian delegation to the fourteen being increased to fifteen. The proposal to do so was made by the Head of the Italian delegation, Mr. Migone. I do not know whether he has given us any good reason other than that fifteen is an odd number. That reason is not a convincing one, because supposing there are fourteen, they select one of their number as Chairman. If all are present - and we should have to ascertain whether all the members attended the Headquarters Committee meetings - there might be six against seven. Should one member be absent, they might be six on one side and six on the other. At that point, the polyvalent Chairman could intervene and incline the scales in one direction or another.
(19) I have spoken at too great length already, and I offer my apologies. In conclusion, I would say that I shall oppose, on behalf of my delegation, an increase in the membership of the Committee from fourteen to fifteen, and I should like to remind you, last of all, what the science of palaeontology teaches us in regard to living-species. Gigantism when it appears is the sign of decadence and approaching extinction. Let us avoid gigantism in our organizations. Let us set up the smallest possible number of committees, and when we do create them, let us furnish them with the fewest possible members, but members who are competent and who are chosen for their qualifications.
(20) Mr. MUDALIAR (India) - Mr. President and fellow delegates, late in the evening yesterday, when the atmosphere was perhaps surcharged with a feeling of tiredness on the part of all members, I ventured to make some few suggestions and to offer some remarks on procedural matters and also on the decisions that were arrived at by this Conference in regard to the very important ques- tion that was under debate.
(21) Let me first of all assure those Member States concerned who have been elected to serve on this Building Committee that I have nothing to say against such a proposal. The Indian delegation is friendly to all Member States, and welcomes any Member State which wishes to participate in the activities of the Organization. But I must say frankly, Mr. President, what I think of the pro- cedural matter and about discussions that are taking place in this House, because I feel that I shall not be true to myself or to the Organization if I do not state that I am somewhat disappointed at the manner in which we are conducting our business. In the first place it is unfortunate that we have to sit in this very crowded hall, overcrowded by visitors, representatives of other organizations and also members of the Secretariat, and we have also to see a constant stream of people passing up and down which clouds our vision if it does not actually tend to lower our intellectual level.
(22) Secondly, I must confess also, that in regard to the translation we very often hear a fading voice and cannot possibly follow what is being said. These two difficulties were at their worst yesterday when a very important question was being discussed here, a question involving the expenditure of over seven-and-a-half million dollars. To add to this, Mr. President - I should be corrected if I am wrong in my interpretation - various members came and spoke upon this motion, and in the course of their speeches incidentally suggested that they would like some amendments to be made. I am not sure that any of those amendments were actually handed over to the Acting Director-General in writing; nor were they seconded by anybody to my knowledge. At the end of the discussion, if I am not mistaken - I shall apologize if I am mistaken - the representative of the Secretariat read out certain amendments and stated these amendments were before the meeting. I venture to think that that was not the correct procedure that should have been adopted. Rule 78 states very clearly: “Draft resolutions and amendments other than those mentioned in the following paragraph shall be transmitted in writing to the Secretary-General, who shall circulate copies to delegations”. Were the amendments placed in the hands of the Secretary-General? I should like to have a positive reply from him in due course, If they were not placed in the hands of the Secretary-General, then the question arises whether the procedure is quite correct.
(23) Moreover, copies of these amendments were to be circulated, except as provided in paragraph
5, which reads: “Notwithstanding the provisions of the foregoing paragraph, the President may permit the discussion and consideration of amendments to substantive motions, and to substitute motions or procedural motions, without previous circulation of copies”. Now I venture to think that, as a copy of the resolution bearing on this subject was already before all the members, the correct procedure would have been for a member to have given notice of the amendment and to have spoken thereon when discussing the subject. In the very important question that has been considered, it is my opinion that these procedural matters were of extreme importance. However, I do not wish to take up time to discuss what has been passed because I will accept it, although theoretically some objections can still be raised. I think that in future, Mr. President, I would strongly urge that these matters should receive much more careful attention at the hands of all of us, the Secretariat and others, than has evidently been the case this time. - 100 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s III-7
(24) Again, it was said that, after a resolution had been passed, the subject could not be recon- sidered. In other assemblies I know definitely that there is a rule that by a two-thirds majority a snap vote on any subject can be reconsidered, and I shall very warmly recommend to the Executive Board to consider - if there are not rules to that effect in this Constitution - the desirability of introducing such a provision. It is all the more desirable, because occasionally members who are not conversant with the various languages may not immediately interpret the meaning of any parti- cular amendment or may be unable to grasp the full significance of the situation when they are forced to give their vote. It is exceedingly important for this Organization that we should have an opportunity of reviewing such a snap vote, if necessary in the light of the full facts that may be placed before us. I do not by any means wish to suggest that at yesterday’s meeting these facts were not before the house. But I think it would be good for us to realize that these are directions in which there should be an improvement in procedural matters.
(25) I would also like to state that it has been the experience in other assemblies that, whenever such resolutions are adopted - immediately the next morning - all delegates have copies of those resolutions with them in their respective places. I realize that this is an Extraordinary Session, that perhaps it was not possible to give effect to all these formalities; but I do hope that the Exe- cutive Board, the new Director-General and the Secretariat will consider the procedure that is being adopted in other organizations and try to see that what is good in such procedural matters is also adopted in our own Organization.
(26) Our Organization has been subjected to some criticism. People outside do not realize the tremendous difficulties under which we are working, and are not aware that a very large number of delegations come here and, under the stress of time, having much to deliberate on, have not much time at their disposal. But I feel that in many respects there is room for some improve- ment in all these directions. What we aim at, after all, is efficiency at home and honour abroad, both of which we can secure only if we interpret our duties and responsibilities in as dignified a manner as we can.
(27) The PRESIDENT - The Acting Director-General will make a statement.
(28) The ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL - Mr. President, Mr. Mudaliar asked for a direct reply to one of the points he raised. May I make the following statement? The Lebanese amendment and the Peruvian amendment were both received in writing by the Secretary here on the tribune. The Belgian amendment which, as I recall, was one of drafting, was not received in writing. They were not, however, circulated. May I read parts of Rule 78? No. 1 states: “Draft resolutions and amendments, other than those mentioned in the following paragraph shall be transmitted in writing to the Secretary-General, who shall circulate copies to delegations.” Then No. 4 under the same rule: “AS a general rule, no draft resolution shall be discussed or put to the vote unless copies of it have been circulated in the working languages to all delegations not later than the day preceding the meeting. ” But I may call attention to No. 5 of this same rule: “Notwithstanding the provisions of the foregoing paragraph, the President may permit the discussion and consideration of amendments to substantive motions, and of substitute motions or procedural motions, without previous circulation of copies. ”
(29) Count de CASA ROJAS (Spain) - (Translation from the Spanish) Mr. President and delegates, the previous speakers have all declared that they feel great respect for what has been agreed upon; but they have all criticized it and have directly or indirectly asked for its amendment.
(30) Apart altogether from what is laid down in Rule 78, paragraph 5, which the Acting Director- General has just read to us and which says that notwithstanding the provisions of the foregoing paragraph (No. 4), the President may permit the discussion and consideration of amendments to substantive motions, and of substitute motions or procedural motions, without previous circulation of copies, I should like to remind the meeting that the question of enlarging the Headquarters Com- mittee formed the subject not of one but of four votes, and the Conference must have been very absent-minded if it failed to notice that this matter was being discussed. The first point raised was the increase in the membership from eleven to fourteen, and this was agreed. It was then suggested that Greece should be made a member of the Committee, and that, too, was approved. Then Canada was proposed, and finally Spain, It cannot be denied that the subject was repeatedly brought before us.
(31) The increased expenditure which would result from the enlargement of the Committee was also mentioned with emphasis. It seems to me, after what the Acting Director-General has said, that in this respect we are showing an excess of zeal on behalf of the finances of the various States, since the expenditure will have to be met by the States which send the delegates, and in no case by Unesco, whose finances, and not those of the Member States, it is our duty to watch over. - 101 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   III-7 P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s
(32) Opposition to the increased membership has also been made on the grounds that the Committee has so far worked quite satisfactorily, that the report it has prepared is perfect, and that there is therefore no reason to make any change. I should, however, like to point out that, so far, the Committee has been occupied with preparatory surveys, plans and documents. We are now pas- sing from a project to its implementation, from a survey to actual work; and it is only natural and logical that when the work increases the number of members who are to deal with it should like- wise increase. I will not dwell on certain allusions to the incompetence of diplomats who claim to know everything. We diplomats - I should like to defend the body to which I belong - do not make any such claim. We respect the competence of all, and while in the Conference and the Commit- tees and, more particularly, on the Headquarters Committee, there are technicians, lawyers, engineers and architects, we diplomats, who are here not as diplomats but as the delegates of our respective countries, claim the right to participate not as technicians, but as the prospective and future owners of a building; and the owner always has the right to supervise everything that is being done. When a man who is not a technician decides to build a house, he calls in an architect, a foreman and a contractor. Every day he goes to see how the work is progressing, and although he does not understand it, he is interested and is defending his own interest, with less knowledge than the technicians, perhaps, but with greater zeal and determination.
(33) I should also like to express my astonishment at the exceptional stress that is being laid on this trifling question; today we are holding an exhaustive debate about the advisability of increas- ing the membership of the Committee from eleven to fourteen, whereas yesterday, with the great- est rapidity and almost without objections being raised, we decided upon the expenditure of $7,080,000. ‘Moreover, all the changes in the project without exception were made by following the same procedure as that adopted for the increase of the Committee, and all of them were ap- proved without the slightest comment. Yet this small point as to whether there are to be fourteen members of the Committee instead of eleven seems to cause the greatest excitement, and is pro- longing the discussion. It is a matter I cannot understand.
(34) Mr. JOCHAMOWITZ (Peru) - (Translation from the French) My reason for speaking again is the keen interest which our delegation takes in the Headquarters question, first, because the Peru- vian delegation has been a member of the Headquarters Committee and secondly, because I think light should always be thrown on this problem. After what happened yesterday, I can now say that night brings counsel. Obviously, what was done yesterday has surprised you. Decisions were ta- ken with a rapidity that astonishes me, and there are several matters which really call for discus- sion. For example, during the time that I have been with Unesco, it has been the rule, when nomi- nations are considered, to consult the Nominations Committee. Yesterday this rule was ignored. If we had deferred the question until today we would, with the counsel which night would have brought us, certainly have acted differently. The proposal was made to increase the membership of the Headquarters Committee from eleven to fourteen. No one knows why or with what object. The number was increased because it was thought necessary for some more delegates to sit alongside others. At the Seventh Session of the General Conference the number of seats was raised from nine to eleven. Why must this number now be increased to fourteen.7 I do not believe this to be neces- sary. It is not a question of expense, for it would cost Unesco and the Member States absolutely nothing. If it was desired to increase the number of seats, the permanent delegations to Unesco should first of all have been ascertained, and then we should have to know whether these delegations included members with the necessary qualifications for this Committee, which is of a very special character. Membership of a delegation is not a sufficient qualification for sitting in this Committee, where very special and very well defined matters are discussed. I shall go even further; I think that the Headquarters Committee has no longer so important a part to play. The Committee was exceedingly useful and has even been indispensable up to now, because it had to settle general and special problems relating to the building of the Headquarters. Its action really terminated with the proposals submitted yesterday, which we approved. I again repeat my congratulations and my thanks to all the members and to the Chairman, who have contributed to solving this great and extremely important problem. The situation is, however, now quite different. The whole of the interest in the Headquarters is centred in the Office which has been created and which I suggested yesterday should be called the “Headquarters Building Office” or the “Headquarters Technical Office”. This body will assume all the responsibilities. I therefore do not see what part the Headquarters Committee will play. The Committee is of a strictly advisory character. But it does not seem necessary to consult it on this purely architectural problem.
(35) I do not call for the Committee to be abolished. I desire simply to state that its action will be extremely limited and almost non-existent. Why under these conditions should we appoint a fifteenth member? I do not see any advantage in that. The three additional members designated yesterday were not required, and the fifteenth member would be still more unnecessary. I am therefore against any increase in the membership of the Headquarters Committee. - 102 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s III-7
(36) Mr. DAOUD AMMOUN (Lebanon) - (Translation from the French) The devil is about to reply! If he has to choose between Mgr Maroun and myself in the Lebanese delegation he will, even if he hesitates for a long time, finally fix on me.
(37) Our motion was not, as the delegate of Peru said a moment ago, without any object. We stated that we wished to secure a better geographical distribution. I shall speak to you very simply on a question of fact. The Headquarters Committee, which incidentally is not composed of specialists and architects, is merely called upon to co-ordinate in some sort the action of the General Conference with that of the architects working on the building. Do you believe that the fact of associating certain States or geographical areas more closely with its work deserved all this flood of references to principle and the need for economy during the long debates conducted here? Do you think, for example, that if one of the countries of the Near East had been repres- ented on the Committee its discussions would have been hampered in any way whatever? We are one of seven or eight countries with no representatives on this Committee. We submitted this motion yesterday and we even had the moderation and discretion not to propose ourselves. Would our appearance on the Committee really have meant, as Mr. Verniers suggested, the entrance of the devil and led to confusion in its work? Do you not think that it would have been desirable to allow certain geographical areas to observe more closely the manner in which the work was dev- eloping and to keep their governments and nations better informed on the subject? That would cost you nothing, gentlemen, and nevertheless, we have lost nearly an hour today and we lost three hours yesterday in discussing this question. That was the only object of the Lebanese motion, and I do not believe that we can in any way be compared either to a saint, for that we certainly are not, or to the devil, whom we have no wish to be.
(38) The PRESIDENT - I have received notice of a motion for closure. I call upon the delegate of Iran.
(39) Mr. RAADI (Iran) - (Translation from the French) I do not desire at this stage to go into the substance of the discussion; I think we are aware of all the facts and we now know what the sup- porters and the opponents of the increase have to say. We can now vote on the figure of fourteen or fifteen. Whether we wish it or not, whether we regret it or not, a vote has already been cast. We must now carry through the work which is still before us.
(40) The PRESIDENT - Those who are for this motion of closure? Are there any members against the closure?
(41) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) - (Translation from the French) I think we have now entered on very delicate ground and that we are taking part in too many discussions. If a snap vote or a diabolical intervention led to the election of my country on the Headquarters Committee, whose members, activities, attendance and qualifications are well known to its Chairman, Mr. Parra- Perez, I should like to say, Mr. President, that Greece would not wish to take part in the Head- quarters Committee.
(42) The PRESIDENT - Shall I put a motion for closure?
(43) Count de CASA ROJAS (Spain) - (Translation from the Spanish) I should like to know what we are discussing. My impression was that we were not required to go back over what had been agreed, which, as the Chair said last night, had already been approved, and that what was being discussed was the increase from fourteen to fifteen. Now we are told that the discussion is to be closed. In what terms is it to be closed? Do we abide by what has already been agreed?
(44) The PRESIDENT - The only resolution before the meeting today is a suggestion to raise the number of members on the Committee from fourteen to fifteen. All other points were disposed of yesterday and no suggestion has been made to reopen the debate. This is a motion of closure. Those against? Nobody is against the motion, so the debate is closed.
(45) The proposal before the meeting is: “That the number be raised from fourteen to fifteen”. Those for? Those against? The motion is rejected. That means the number remains at fourteen. INSTALLATION OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL
(46) The PRESIDENT - We proceed to the next item, the installation of the new Director-General in pursuance of the resolution of this General Conference. It is my very great pleasure to extend - 103 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   III- 7 P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s a most cordial welcome and express our good wishes to our old friend and colleague, Dr. Luther Evans, in his new capacity as Director-General, We are all familiar with his intellectual achievements, administrative experience, his progressive outlook, his infectious laughter, his vivacious personality and, above all, his devotion to the cause of Unesco. In the days to come, international organizations will have to face very severe tests and those in charge of them will have to stand up, as sentinels, for human freedom and international conscience. Courage comes through an understanding of the struggle for freedom. It is a rule that redeems. From today, Dr. Luther Evans is a great international civil servant from whom we expect intellectual integrity which does not shrink from truth for fear of offending men; moral courage, which acts aright in the light of faith, and devotion to human welfare, which is the paramount duty of an international civil servant. On this fourth day of July, which is American Independence Day, we should rem- ember that the authentic Voice of America is for an extension of democratic liberties all over the world. America was born in revolution and dedicated to democracy. The Founding Fathers had a dream in their hearts of extending democratic liberties and freedom all over the world.
(47) Today also happens to be the Independence Day of the Philippines. We wish the American people and the people of the Philippines the best of luck on this solemn occasion when Dr. Luther Evans assumes office. I wish to assure him, on behalf of this General Conference and of all the delegations, including my own, of our prayerful wishes for a very successful term of office.
(48) Sir Ronald ADAM (United Kingdom), Chairman of the Executive Board - Mr. President and fellow delegates, when I proposed the nomination of Dr. Luther Evans on behalf of the Executive Board I made a formal nomination and a short statement on his curriculum vitae. My first task, on behalf of all the members of the Board, is to confirm what was said so gracefully by Mr. Piaget in his speech at the conclusion of our election, that he has all our confidence and all our trust. We know him well. We shall work with him in that great spirit of collaboration which is essential between an Executive Board and a Director-General if the work of Unesco is to go on.
(49) I would like to say that I do not know if we realize that Dr. Luther Evans is giving up one of the most important positions in the United States of America, with a lifetime career and a pension, to serve this great Organization. He is making sacrifices for it. I have known him for a long time and I know his belief in Unesco. The task, as the President has said so much more eloquently than I can, is a very great task. No man can carry it out without a strong constitution, a strong sense of humour and an abiding faith in the principles of Unesco.
(50) I think one of his greatest qualities is in human relations. In my experience international understanding, cultural relations, or whatever we care to call them, are basically matters of human relations between peoples of every creed, race and nationality, and I am quite certain that he is pre-eminently fitted in that respect to ensure the closest human relations with all the nations that make up this great Organization. I know also because I have visited the Library of Congress (in Dr. Luther Evans’ absence) that this great Organization is what we would call in the English naval tradition “a happy ship”. I have never been in an organization where there was a staff that was as contented as the staff of the Library of Congress.
(51) I know that the staff here have been thinking of whom they were going to get as Director- General; the “couloirs” during the meetings of the Executive Board were rather like the “couloirs” during a General Conference. Many people were elected long before the Board had even considered them! I know the staff are going to have a Head who will make them happy. I know they are going to have a most human personality. I would therefore conclude - in the tale of prophet - that I think this is a very fortunate day for Unesco and we shall look back in years to come on the good job we did today in choosing Dr. Luther Evans as our Director-General.
(52) The PRESIDENT - I call upon Dr. Luther Evans.
(53) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL - Mr. President and delegates. If I may depart a bit from pro- tocol, I would like to say also Mr. Chairman of the Board, Mr, Acting Director-General and members of the Secretariat. Mr. President, delegates before you, the representatives of sover- eign States, believers in different gods, adherents of many religions or philosophies of life, I wish to utter a short prayer to my own God. In Unesco one is able to call upon the God in whom he believes for assistance without offence to his colleagues. If, ignorantly, I should do offence to anyone, I ask your pardon in advance.
(54) Almighty God, make my heart and spirit humble in face of the mighty tasks which have been placed on my shoulders. Make me realize always that the power man exercises springs, not from himself, but from the approval of his fellow men. 0 God, make me realize that the work of Unesco is the work of many men who believe in many different gods or systems of belief; make me toler- ant of all men, and make me respect their right to follow the light shed on their respective prayers - 104 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s III- 7 by their respective creeds or beliefs. Make me forever observant of the truths which wise and great men have made plain in many ages, that, almost without exception, the great religions and philosophies of life have much in common, and would if practised well, lead man forward toward peace and understanding. O God, cleanse my heart of selfishness, pettiness, enmity, revenge, anger and unjustified mistrust, and give me strength, wisdom and goodness in greater measure than before in order that I may help my fellow men reach Thy goal of peace. Amen.
(55) Mr. President, I am deeply grateful to you and to the Chairman of the Executive Board for the kind remarks which you have made. I shall treasure them as long as I live. They will strengthen me in difficult hours.
(56) For me this is indeed a solemn occasion. I am humble in the face of the tasks which I must now assume. But I am inspired by the knowledge of your support and your goodwill. I shall place all my energy and imagination at your service.
(57) It would be inappropriate at this time for me to address myself to the matter of the programme and budget, but I must say to you that I have a profound belief, a belief which I am convinced the Member States share, that Unesco’s activities are best planned and best understood in long-range terms. Let us leave to other agencies and other men primary responsibility for peace in this generation; we are working to lay the foundations of permanent peace in terms of many generations. When we can truly serve the cause of peace in the short run we are of course glad to do SO, but our focus of attention, our main responsibility is to do other work.
(58) Ladies and gentlemen, I come to serve you as a professional administrator. I must there- fore disclose to you what attitudes on the matter of administrative methods I have as I begin my work.
(59) The first attitude of an administrator should be that matters of organization and procedure are not fixed by overriding natural laws or man-made constitutions, but rather are responsive to the needs of the time and the stage of development of the major phases of work and the habits of working together of the members of the staff. The problem of administration is mostly a problem in human relations. Good administration requires the widespread participation of the staff at all levels in the development of policy; it requires that what is decided be the result of as wide a consensus of the staff members concerned as the requirements of time permit; it requires that the exercise of authority from above be as rare as possible, except in the form of approval of initiatives coming from below.
(60) Ladies and gentlemen, arrangements of power are established not for the enjoyment of dicta- torial authority by men fortunate or unfortunate enough to possess it. No indeed, they are made as an essential alternative to the confusion of purpose which would otherwise be present. What we need to avoid is the confusion of purpose. I propose to do that in the Secretariat by an increase of the organs and procedures of common counsel. I know that I inherit a fine body of men and women; and I am sure that we can work together democratically without any loss in efficiency. Indeed, I am convinced that the development of a firm body of widely understood policies and methods of action will permit the elimination of some burdens of paper shuffling and some blockages of the paths of action.
(61) Ladies and gentlemen, the work of Unesco is largely intellectual, and its staff mostly consists of members of learned professions. They are capable of greater achievements and they are capable of growth. I propose to assure myself that they understand and accept the policies which govern our activities at any given moment, that they respect the necessary minimum of routine requirements of the bgreaucracg within which everyone must operate, and then I propose to aid them in their work of imagination, their work of thinking through the problems Unesco faces to arrive at feasible solutions. I will insist that everyone in authority regard himself as a gardener protecting and encouraging the growth of the endowments of nature which the staff members poss- ess, in the secure conviction that they will employ those endowments fully to achieve the common goal. I shall not be jealous of my authority, insisting on petty observances; no, I shall be profli- gate in its expenditure to increase the potential of mind and spirit of the members of the Secreta- riat. And I shall pardon and defend them when they make honest errors of judgment in the areas in which the responsibility for decision is given to them. We are going to be a happy family, draw- ing strength from mutual respect, comradeship and the common purpose of serving you of the Member States. I shall insist that my colleagues in the work of administering our common affairs accept the basic proposition that the authority lodged in administrators is a sacred trust, and that it must be exercised in a manner calculated to bring out the best in men.
(62) Ladies and gentlemen, Unesco is an instrument for the increase of collaboration among the Member States. The Secretariat is not, it should not be, an independent power. It should have no goals except your goals. I propose to work zealously at the task of discovering the needs and wishes of all Member States preparatory to the development of the draft programme and budget for 1955-1956. To this end I intend to pay personal visits to most of the Member States before - 105 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   III-7 P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s the end of the year, and I shall prepare the draft programme and budget for the consideration of the Executive Board in the light of my findings, to the maximum possible degree. Please have your governments organize their thoughts, so that my visits may be as fruitful as possible. I shall soon communicate with your governments on this subject. It is my fervent hope that mem- bers of the Board may be present whenever possible when I talk with governments, and particularly that it may be possible for the Chairman or one of the Vice-Chairmen to accompany me on many of my visits.
(63) I think there is no need to emphasize my loyal acceptance of the policy which the Executive Board, the General Conference and my three predecessors have so warmly supported of collabo- rating closely with the United Nations, the other Specialized Agencies, and regional intergovern- mental organizations. Allow me one personal word, however, and that is that I shall derive great personal pleasure from continuing the friendly relations which I have had for many years with the Secretary-General of the Organization of American States and his fine staff. I shall proceed at once to establish warm working relationships with the officers of all the other organizations.
(64) I feel that I am very fortunate to follow two distinguished Directors-General and a distinguished Acting Director-General, and to have all of them as warm personal friends. They have given Unesco a wonderful beginning, and I shall approach humbly the task of carrying on the great tradi- tions each of them has either established or strengthened. I shall study carefully the problems of organization and procedure before making any changes in what they have done.
(65) I am happy that numerous delegations expressed strong approval of Dr. Taylor’s administra- tion of Unesco’s affairs. As a member of the Executive Board I have been well informed of the quality of his direction of the Secretariat, and I add my applause to yours. I shall urge him to remain as Deputy Director-General until the draft programme and budget for 1955-1956 are sub- stantially completed for presentation to the Executive Board. This is all the more necessary because of my plan to spend much of the remainder of the year in visits to Member States.
(66) As the member of the Executive Board with the Longest tenure, I feel that I must report to you the deep affection which I have for its members and the great respect I have for the Board as one of the principal organs of Unesco. I shall try to continue the cordial and understanding rela- tions already existing between it and the Secretariat. To those members of the Board who opposed my nomination as Director-General, I offer my hand in friendship in the full knowledge that in every case it will be warmly grasped. We will bury no hatchets, because there are no hatchets to be buried. The Board members, Like the delegates who voted against my election, acted on principle, and I respect them for it. I recognize no one of you as an enemy, and I will accept no flimsy evidence that anyone is my enemy.
(67) I must express to you my happiness that you have taken action on the matter of a Headquart- ers building. Unesco has always felt at home in Paris, and now it will feel that it has really be- come a permanent part of this wonderful city of light, where the mind and spirit are in such con- genial environment and where all cultural forces are strong and dynamic. I regret that my own knowledge of France and of the French language is not greater, and I promise you to set about its improvement. My wife and son have authorized me to tell you that they will share this task fully with me.
(68) To the delegation of Uruguay and the Uruguayan member of the Executive Board I extend warm greetings and assure them of my eager anticipation of the forthcoming session of the General Conference in Montevideo. I hope to call on the officers of government there within the next two months and discuss arrangements for the Conference. I shall strive to have a good command of the language of Don Quixote and Ruben Dario, which I love so much, by the time we meet in Montevideo.
(69) I know many of you take a serious view of certain signs of a growing wave of obscurantism in certain countries, including some countries where such a futile and cowardly philosophy of frustration and despair is in conflict with the very bases of political and national life. I assure you that I have a Lifetime enmity against the enemies of liberty of all sorts and that within the limi- tations of my office I shall act vigorously in the light of that enmity. As Thomas Jefferson said, in a letter of which as Librarian of Congress I have been the proud custodian for eight years, “I have sworn upon the altar of God eternal hostility against all forms of tyranny over the mind of man”. This means not only the fierce defence of freedom but also the proud pouring out of one’s strength of mind and body for the enlargement of freedom, for breaking the shackles of ignorance and prejudice and injustice which hamper the innate upward thrust of the human spirit and make life poorer than it might be. In all of our work we must remember that the triumph in a large number of Member States of such movements would mean the death of Unesco and the long abate- ment of its dream of light, of tolerance, of peace.
(70) Ladies and gentlemen, Let me end this brief testament of faith in the eventual success of our common effort by saying that I do not believe that Unesco is in a state of crisis. Unesco is young, - 106 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   P l e n a r y  M e e t i n g s III-7 but it is maturing rapidly; we must all strive restlessly for it to be fully mature in all its work; Unesco is weak, but it is growing stronger; we must strive to speed up its accession of strength; Unesco is groping for the best modalities of action to achieve peace and progress through education, science and culture, and in this it has made surprising progress in seven years; we must concen- trate on the objective of determining consciously what types of activities and what methods and procedures are fruitful and give them priority over others; Unesco is learning that plastering its name on the billboards or parading its achievements on the airwaves is not the way to get its work done; we must strengthen this approach of modesty and trust all-seeing sovereign governments to give any benevolent influence we exercise the correct attribution of source; Unesco has not yet fully developed its most appropriate and most fruitful relationship to the associations and groups of creative intellectual workers of the world, although much of great value has been done; we must more fully understand, and cause these workers themselves more fully to understand that their work of mind and spirit is essential for the forward progress of civilization, and we must secure their ever increasing collaboration in the common task.
(71) I shall have many opportunities to communicate with you and your governments. The most important thing for me to say at this time is that I shall be your and their servant, that I shall strive to know you and their wishes, that I shall try to live up the Constitution of Unesco and the resolutions of the General Conference, and that I shall love my fellow men. Thank you for the confidence you have placed in me, and thank you for patiently listening to this brief statement.
(72) The PRESIDENT - I shall now request our Director-General to take the oath of allegiance to Unesco.
(73) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL - I solemnly swear to exercise in all loyalty, discretion and conscience the functions entrusted to me as Director-General of Unesco, to discharge these func- tions and regulate my conduct with the interests of Unesco only in view, and not to seek or accept instructions in regard to the performance of my duties from any government or other authority external to the Organization, so help me God.
(74) The PRESIDENT - Several members already had the opportunity of expressing our sense of gratitude to the Acting Director-General. You heard the new Director-General also repeat it. I have been asked in the name of the whole General Conference to put before you a resolution for your enthusiastic approval. “The General Conference, Considering with gratitude the outstanding services rendered to the Organization by Dr. John W. Taylor in his capacity as Acting Director-General, Appreciating to the full the intelligence. wisdom and efficiency with which he has directed the execution of the programme and the administration of the Organization, Invites the Executive Board and the Director-General To request Dr. John W. Taylor to continue to give the Organization the benefit of his great experience and qualities of leadership, To take into consideration the feelings of Dr. John W. Taylor in this respect and to make such arrangements in this regard as conform to his wishes”. Adopted.
(75) With your approval, the contract” will now be signed.
(76) The PRESIDENT - I now declare the Conference closed. The meeting rose at 12 noon. * CONTRACT BETWEEN THE UNITED NATIONS EDUCATIONAL, LUTHER I-L EVANS of SCIENTIFIC AND CULTURAL ORGANIZATION 3105 Garfield Street N. W., Washington, D. C.,
19 Avenue Kleber, Paris, France A N D United States of America WHEREAS Article VI paragraph 2 of the Constitution of the United Nations Educational, Scienti- fic and Cultural Organization provides that the Director-General shall be nominated by the Execu- tive Board and appointed by the General Conference for a period of six years, under such condi- tions as the Conference may approve - 107 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.