VI-8.2 H e a d q u a r t e r s  C o m m i t t e e Committee had enough information at its disposal to issue any instructions to the architects. Fur- ther, he would have preferred to avoid a vote at the present stage. He therefore proposed that the question of the Executive Board room be referred for study to the architects and the Secretariat, requesting them to report back to the Committee at the earliest possible moment.
(36) Seconding the Chairman’s proposal, Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil) asked if the possibility could also be studied of suppressing the Executive Board building for the time being, leaving it to the General Conference to decide, if it so desired, to have a small building constructed for the Execu- tive Board at a later stage. Agreed.
(37) The procedure proposed by the Chairman was approved. It was agreed that Mr. Breuer. in consultation with the Acting Director-General, would study the problem in the light of the Commit- tee’s debate and submit an alternative proposal to the Committee on Wednesday afternoon 25 Feb- ruary, at 3 p.m. The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m. SECOND MEETING Wednesday, 25 February 1953, at 3 p.m. Chairman Mr. PARRA-PEREZ ( Venezuela) PROPOSALS RELATING TO THE CONSTRUCTION OF ROOMS FOR THE EXECUTIVE BOARD (document HQ/5, doted 24 February 1953)
(1) Presenting document 8 HQ/5, the CHAIRMAN recalled that Mr. Breuer had been requested to prepare, in consultation with the Secretariat, a paper containing alternative proposals relating to accommodation for the Executive Board. Certain members of the Committee had objected to the construction of a separate building for the Executive Board, as planned by the architects, and had asked if it would be possible to incorporate the Executive Board rooms, either in the Secretariat building or in the General Conference area. Mr. Carneiro had reminded the Committee that the General Conference had envisaged the construction of the Headquarters building in different stages, and he had therefore proposed that the architects and the Secretariat consider the possibility of eliminating the Executive Board building for the time being, leaving it to the General Conference to decide, if it so desired, to have a small building for the Executive Board built at a later stage. The financial and architectural implications of the three proposals were given in document 8 HQ/5.
(2) Referring to the columns mentioned in paragraph (1) (d) on page 1 of document 8 HQ/5, Mr. de CLEMENTI (Italy) asked whether they were to go right through to the top of the building, or whether they stopped at the first floor, in which case it might be possible to incorporate the large room for the Executive Board in the Secretariat building on the second or third floors, for example. Second- ly, Mr. de Clementi objected to the statement in the last paragraph on page 3 that the French Authorities had approved the plan. He recalled that the French Authorities had approved the gen- eral proportions, but not the details of the plan.
(3) Replying to both questions, the ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that the columns went right up to the roof of the Secretariat building. It was true that the statement regarding the French Authorities was not strictly accurate and should be amended. - 118 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   H e a d q u a r t e r s  C o m m i t t e e VI-8.2
(4) Mr. VALEUR (France) confirmed that the French Authorities had only approved the general proportions. What seemed to him more important was that, thanks to the heroic efforts to effect economies made by the Secretariat and the architects, a plan had been devised which could be carried out within the $6.000.000 ceiling fixed by the General Conference. If additional reductions had had to be envisaged, in order to keep within that ceiling, he would have been in favour of the third proposal, i. e. the suppression of the Executive Board buildiang, but, as that was not the case, he saw no reason why the Committee should not approve the separate building, even if it proved slightly more expensive. He thought that it was generally recognized that it would be desirable for the Board to have its own room, a lounge for members and an office for its secretariat, in a separate building.
(5) Mr. de CLEMENTI (Italy) asked whether the $6,000, 000 included a sum for artistic works, i. e. paintings, tapestries, sculpture, etc., to be installed in the new building, in order to give it tone and make it a worthy monument to twentieth century thought.
(6) Mr. MONTAGNIER explained that a sum of $151,000 had originally been allowed for co-opera- tion with artists; however, in seeking for places where economies could be made, it had been de- cided to reduce that sum to $110.000, which represented 2% of the total expenditure, the proportion usually reserved for that purpose in some national legislations when budgeting for new buildings is
1% or 2% of the total estimates.
(7) Mr. de CLEMENTI (Italy) pointed out that the total reduction of building costs amounted only to 10% whereas a 50% cut had been made on works of art. He considered the proportion unfair and thought that the Committee should decide to suppress the separate building for the Executive Board, adding the $67,000 thus economized to the sum for co-operation with artists.
(8) Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil) noted that the only one of the three solutions in document 8 HQ/5 which would lead to any economy was the third, and that that would mean reducing the Executive Board to the status of a poor relation of the General Conference and the Secretariat, wandering through Unesco House in search of accommodation. In his opinion, therefore, that solution should be rejected at once. Nor should the Executive Board be sacrificed to the artists; he reminded Mr. de Clementi of certain precedents which might well be followed; in the cases of the “Palais des Nations” and the IL0 building in Geneva, each Member State had been asked to contribute some work of art. He did not wish to suggest that Member States should be left entirely free in their choice of such works of art, but that they should be asked to select works in accordance with a plan established by the General Conference, the Headquarters Committee and the architects; the plan would include names of artists and works.
(9) Mr. CHEN Yuan (China) was in favour of the original design, providing a separate building for the Executive Board, because it would cost more instead of less to incorporate the Executive Board rooms in either of the other two buildings. Further, he considered it desirable for the Executive Board to have its lounge and secretarial facilities attached to its meeting room, instead of in another building. Thirdly, he supported the plan for a separate building because, having no know- ledge of architecture himself, he trusted the architects who had stated that such a solution would be the most satisfactory from the architectural point of view.
(10) Mr. MALIK (India) fully agreed with Mr. Carneiro that the third solution should be ruled out, as the Executive Board should not be left in such a situation. He was prepared to accept the views on the other two solutions expressed by Mr. Breuer and the Secretariat, provided that he was given an assurance that they had borne in mind the atmosphere that had prevailed at the last session of the General Conference, when it had been said that expenditure for the Headquarters building seemed to be excessive when compared with programme expenditure, and that they had explored every possibility of cutting down space. For example, the Executive Board room, measuring
2 4 0 m , seemed to have been planned on a somewhat luxurious scale. However if he received that assurance, he was prepared to agree to a separate building for the Executive Board.
(11) The ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL, replying to Mr. Malik, stated that space had already been reduced to the extent of some 13,000 m2; such a sacrifice had been considered reasonable, but - 119- Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   VI-8.2 H e a d q u a r t e r s  C o m m i t t e e it did not allow for expansion. The size of the room where the Executive Board usually met in Unesco House measured 320 m2, so that 240 m2 represented a room smaller by one-third. Although the Executive Board did not meet more than four times a year, the room would be used in between its sessions for various other meetings, which would otherwise have to be held in the General Con- ference area ; as had already been pointed out, the utilization of the larger building for such meet- ings would prove more costly.
(12) While appreciating the force of the Acting Director-General’s remark, Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) said that it made him feel that the General Conference building was to be an even larger white elephant than he had at first feared, for it now appeared that it would be used only once every two years, if the Executive Board had a separate building. Like Mr. Malik, he considered that the Board’s room had been planned on a lavish scale, for he remembered when the Board had held meetings in the converted half of the entrance hall of the Hotel Majestic and had had quite enough room, However, he assumed that the views of Mr. Breuer and the Secretariat should be accepted, and that the Board should have a separate building, provided that : (a) the experts considered that, even with a maximum reduction of the Board room, it could not be incorporated in a wing of the Secretariat building; and (b) that they were satisfied that maintenance costs would not be higher if the Board were in a separate building.
(13) Mr. BREUER stated that, in the opinion of the architects, maintenance costs would not be higher if the Board had a separate building. The janitor service, for example, would cost the same, as there would only be one key to the separate building, just as there would be a key to the Executive Board room if it were incorporated in one of the other buildings. With regard to space, the architects had made great and honest efforts to keep costs down; they had worked on the basis of a room measuring 240 m2, because they had been informed that that was what was required; it was not in their interests to design too big a room, and they did not consider a large room superior to a small one. In order to keep within the six million dollar ceiling, a reduction of 25 to 30% had already been made.
(14) In reply to a question from Mr. de CLEMENTI (Italy) regarding the space between the columns of the Secretariat building, Mr. BREUER explained that the columns were thicker at the base, where their diameter was 1 m 40, while at the top, it was 40 cms. The space between the columns, from centre to centre, therefore ranged from 5 m 50 at the base to 7 m 50 at the top of the building.
(15) Mr. de CLEMENTI (Italy) suggested that, if the Board room was reduced to 200 m2, it might be possible, either to insert it at the top of the Secretariat building, or on the bottom floor, if the columns could be reversed, having them thicker at the top and tapering down to the base.
(16) Mr. BREUER remarked that such an operation would be exceedingly expensive.
(17) Mr. THOMSON (United States of America) pointed out that there were three kinds of econo- mies to be considered: (1) on actual building costs ; (2) in time ; (3) by ensuring the most effective functioning of the building once it had been constructed. measuring 200 m2, He wondered if one of the two large Com- mittee Rooms,  in the General Conference area could not be used for the Exe- cutive Board, giving it priority for its meetings during sessions of the Conference. However, if the suppression of the separate building for the Executive Board would entail a further meeting of the Panel of Five, the cost of the latter might offset the economy effected by the suppression of the building, in which case it would not be worth while.
(18) The ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL stated that a meeting of the Panel of Five cost $1,500 to $1,600 for transport alone. Also timing was a problem; a further meeting of the Panel would up- set the deadlines fixed for plans to be submitted to the Extraordinary Session of the Conference. With regard to Mr. Thomson’s suggestion, it would be possible to give up one of the Committee Rooms to the Executive Board, but the latter’s lounge and Secretariat would have to be on a lower floor in the Conference building.
(19) Mr. DAVIES (Australia) supported the proposal to give the Executive Board one of the Com- mittee Rooms. He suggested that space might be found for the lounge and Secretariat among the storage rooms two floors below. - 120 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   H e a d q u a r t e r s  C o m m i t t e e VI-8.2
(20) Mr. PATERNOTTE de la VAILLEE (Belgium) supported Mr. Davies’ remarks.
(21) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) wished it to be quite clear that the Committee did not want the lounge and Secretariat of the Executive Board to be below ground. He observed that the Com- mittee Room concerned should be designated as the “Executive Board Room”, so that there could be no question of the Board’s being a refugee in search of accommodation.
(22) As a member of the Committee, the CHAIRMAN shared the views expressed by Messrs. Valeur, Chen Yuan and Carneiro, namely that there should be a separate building for the Executive Board.
(23) Mr. MALIK (India) thought that the suggestion put forward by Mr. Thomson and seconded by Messrs. Paternotte de la Vaillée and Davies was an excellent one and should be thoroughly explored. He did not believe that the suppression of the Executive Board building would entail a meeting of the Panel of Five, as it would not disturb the balance of the two main buildings.
(24) Mr. BREUER suggested a reversal of the programme proposed, as he would feel obliged to consult all his colleagues before agreeing to the suppression of the Executive Board building. He therefore proposed that the elimination of the separate building be postponed; it would be just as possible to eliminate it later on as at the present time. In the meantime, he hoped that the plan which had been approved by all the architects and the French Authorities would be presented to the General Conference.
(25) Strongly supporting Mr. Breuer, Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil) urged that his proposal be adopted, mentioning in the Committee’s report to the General Conference that the Committee had considered the suppression of the Executive Board building, which would entail an economy of $67,000, but had wished to leave it to the Conference to decide whether or not to suppress it.
(26) Mr. de CLEMENTI (Italy) was prepared to second Mr. Carneiro’s motion, provided that it was made clear in the report that some members of the Committee had been in favour of installing the Executive Board in one of the Committee Rooms in the General Conference area.
(27) The CHAIRMAN remarked that such points would naturally be mentioned in the Committee’s report. The matter would be particularly important if the General Conference decided not to have a separate building for the Executive Board for the time being.
(28) Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil) added that the Secretariat should be asked to revise its estimate of space requirements for the Executive Board, stating that it might be included in the Secretariat building or the General Conference area.
(29) Note having been taken of the various comments, Mr. Carneiro’s proposal was adopted.
(30) In view of the difficult negotiations which had culminated in general agreement between the architects, the French Authorities and the Secretariat, Mr. VALEUR (France) was very glad that the solution proposed by Mr. Breuer and Mr. Carneiro had been adopted, and that there was no intention of modifying the plan before its submission to the General Conference. ITEM 1 - REVISED STATEMENT OF REQUIREMENTS (8 HQ/ 1)
(31) The CHAIRMAN wondered whether it was worth while discussing document 8 HQ/l, as the statement would have to be revised once again to allow for the suggestions regarding the Executive Board room.
(32) Mr. THOMSON (United States of America) thought that the Committee owed the Secretariat and the architects a debt of gratitude for the courageous work they had done in cutting down requirements. The Committee should perhaps now consider whether the reductions made were not too severe, in - 121 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   VI-8.2 H e a d q u a r t e r s  C o m m i t t e e view of the importance of ensuring the effective functioning of the building for the following thirty or forty years.
(33) The ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL thought it a pity that it had not been possible to provide for expansion. He observed that the requirements had been carefully discussed by Mr. Montagnier with all Heads of Departments and Bureaux, who had stated that they were satisfied.
(34) Referring to page 2, Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil) expressed regret at seeing provision for a Natural Sciences work room in the basement.
(35) Mr. MONTAGNIER explained that the wording was misleading; it was not a room for study or research, where people would work regularly, but a room where scientific exhibitions and all the consignments of the Clearing House would be packed up.
(36) Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil) was satisfied with the explanation. He was, however, very sorry to see the substantial reduction of space for permanent delegations of Member States. He wished it to be stated in the Committee’s report that one of its members, at least, considered that the new building was entirely inadequate for Unesco’s needs, and that reductions had been made for reasons of economy which would prove very harmful to Unesco in future years. In particular, it was regret- table that it had not been possible to reserve more space for permanent delegations, which were invaluable living links between Unesco and its Member States. He wished it to be clearly pointed out that the Headquarters Committee, in approving those reductions, had been well aware of their gravity, but had felt obliged to agree to them for reasons of economy.
(37) As a member of the Committee, the CHAIRMAN seconded Mr. Carneiro’s remarks.
(38) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) was sure that many delegations at the General Conference would echo Mr. Carneiro’s opinion. He therefore hoped that the Committee’s report would include an assurance that the plan allowed for expansion; it would, for example, be possible to extend the wings of the Secretariat building.
(39) Mr. de CLEMENTI (Italy) seconded Mr. Carneiro’s remarks concerning space for permanent delegations. It had originally been proposed to allow 75 offices for delegations, and the reduction to 25 offices seemed indeed excessive. He therefore proposed that some of the space reserved for Special Service and Staff Facility Areas in Part III of the Revised Requirements might be further reduced. For example, the Staff Recreation Room and part of the space reserved for the Co-opera- tive might be sacrificed, thus making room for two more delegations.
(40) Mr. MONTAGNIER remarked that the Recreation Room could of course be suppressed, if the Committee so desired, but it was customary to provide staff with a facility of that kind. As for the Co-operative, it had already been reduced to a minimum, so that the Committee should decide either to maintain the space required or suppress it altogether. The Restaurant had also been reduced to a minimum and the Clinic had been reduced by one-third.
(41) Referring to the question of expansion, Mr. BREUER explained that the possibility had already been envisaged of constructing an additional building at some future date on the free area to the South West. It would cost less to construct such a building than it would to extend the wings of the Secretariat building. In the meantime, it should be remembered that the structure of the Secreta- riat building was flexible; partitions could be placed wherever required. It was his experience that adjustments were always made during the construction of any building.
(42) Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil) was opposed to any further reduction of the Staff Facility Areas. He recalled the words of Mr. Piaget that “officials employed in international organizations must have room to walk and think”. The staff must have a minimum amount of space for social contacts and freedom of movement.
(43) Mr. DAVIES (Australia) could not believe that it was necessary to have eleven rooms for the Clinic. He asked how much space was at present available to the Clinic. - 122 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   H e a d q u a r t e r s  C o m m i t t e e VI-8.2
(44) Mr. MONTAGNIER replied that the Clinic in the Hôtel Majestic occupied, approximately
120 m2, but the Doctor and nurses were obliged to work in very bad conditions. The waiting room, for example, was ridiculously small, and people often had to wait outside in the corridor. The Clinic did not restrict its activities to first aid, but gave treatments, vaccinations, etc., not only to staff members, but also to their families.
(45) Having participated in the work done by the architects and the Secretariat, Mr. VALEUR (France) thought that they had made a maximum effort to reduce requirements, and that no further sacrifice should be demanded of them. The problem of space for delegations could be solved in time by constructing the additional building of which Mr. Breuer had spoken.
(46) Mr. THOMSON (United States of America) remarked that at present only twelve delegations had offices in Unesco House. In the new building, there would be room for twenty-five delegations. He saw no point in providing more space, until it was certain that more than twenty-five Member States would want office space in Unesco House.
(47) Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil) pointed out that the reason why there had not been more requests for offices was that Member States realized that no space was available and had therefore considered it useless to put in a request. Many would doubtless avail themselves of the opportunity if space were available, and Unesco should make it its policy to encourage Member States to appoint permanent delegations, as the latter were of immense importance to its work.
(48) Mr. PATERNOTTE de la VAILLEE (Belgium) proposed that the Secretariat sound Member States on the subject before the Extraordinary Session of the General Conference.
(49) Mr. MALIK (India) moved that the Committee accept the Revised Statement of Requirements, on the understanding that the remarks made by members of the Committee would be taken into account, and that the Secretariat would do its best to find additional space for permanent delegations if possible.
(50) The proposal was adopted. ITEM 2 - CONSIDERATION OF THE REPORT OF THE INTERNATIONAL PANEL OF FIVE ARCHITECTS (8 HQ/2 and Annex)
(51) At the request of Mr. THOMSON (United States of America), Mr. VALEUR (France) gave an account of the atmosphere and character of the meeting that had taken place on 13 February 1953.
(52) The Committee took note of documents 8 HQ/2 and Annex. ITEM 3 - CONSIDERATION OF A LETTER FROM DR. GROPIUS TO THE CHAIRMAN OF THE HEADQUARTERS COMMIT- TEE CONCERNING THE ATTRIBUTIONS OF THE PANEL OF FIVE ARCHITECTS (8 HQ/3)
(53) The Committee took note of document 8 HQ/3. ITEM 4 - CONSIDERATION OF A LETTER FROM DR. GROPIUS REGARDING HIS FEE CONTRACT (8 HQ/4)
(54) The ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL, recalling that Dr. Gropius had given more time than any other member of the Panel to the matter of Unesco’s new building and had shown great tact in deal- ing with very difficult situations, felt it his duty to propose that the Committee officially recognize Dr. Gropius as Chairman of the Panel and add a sum of $500 to his fee of $1,000.
(55) The proposal was strongly supported by Mr. VALEUR (France), and adopted. - 123 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   VI-8.2 H e a d q u a r t e r s  C o m m i t t e e
(56) In reply to a question from Mr. MALIK (India), the ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL stated that the fee paid to each member of the Panel was $1, 000 and covered all consultations relating to a given project. ITEMS _ ADMINISTRATIVE MEASURES TAKEN BY THE, ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL IN ORDER TO ENSURE THE CARRYING OUT OF THE PROJECT
(57) The ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL observed that the item had been covered on the previous Monday, when the Committee had discussed the architects’ contracts. Agreed. ITEM 6 - DATE OF EXTRAORDINARY SESSION OF THE GENERAL CONFERENCE
(58) Mr. THOMSON (United States of America) recalled that the General Conference would have to consider, not only the report of the Headquarters Committee, but also that of the Chairman of the Panel of Five Architects. The opening date of the Extraordinary Session had been provisionally fixed as 18 May, but on that date Dr. Gropius would be in Chicago for an exhibition of his works, arranged in celebration of his birthday. Mr. Thomson therefore proposed that the Committee re- quest the Executive Board to consider the possibility of changing the date of the Conference to 20 May, when Dr. Gropius would have returned from the United States of America.
(59) Mr. Thomson’s proposal was adopted.
(60) .Mr. VALEUR (France) had pleasure in announcing that the French Parliament, at the end of December, had voted the sum necessary for the Headquarters loan, i. e. a sum of 2, 100 million French francs, which was equivalent to 6 million dollars.
(61) The announcement was received with acclamation and the CHAIRMAN requested Mr. Valeur to convey the Committee’s gratitude to his Government.
(62) Mr. VALEUR (France) further announced that, thanks to the courteous and cordial co-operation of the French Military Authorities, arrangements had been made to evacuate the site at the Place de Fontenoy. The Military Authorities had requested a sum of 100 million francs for the construc- tion of barracks elsewhere, and as soon as that was obtained, the evacuation, which would take five months, would be started. There was plenty of time to complete the evacuation before 1 October, which was the date when the architects had asked for the site to be available. In the meantime, the Military Authorities had invited the architects to visit the site whenever they wished, provided that they did not interrupt the military services. ITEM 7 - DATE OF THE COMMITTEE’S NEXT MEETING
(63) It was agreed that the next meeting should be held on Thursday, 2 April 1953. The meeting rose at 7 p.m. - 124 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.