(28) Document 10 HQ/3 was approved in principle, subject to more detailed consideration. REPORT ON
(10 HQ/4) THE PRESENTING OF THE PRELIMINARY PLAN TO FRENCH AUTHORITIES (Meeting of 21 April 1953)
(29) Mr. MONTAGNIER reported on behalf of Mr. Valeur that, after the meeting of 21 April, all the competent French services had received and were making a study of the preliminary plan. The French Government would forward the comments of those services before the opening of the Confer- ence.
(30) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) pointed out, in connexion with document 2 XC/Z, that the British experts were referring to Mr. Le Corbusier’s opinion of the Conference building, which seemed to them faulty in some respects. He drew special attention to the slope of the roof, the fact that the delegates’ offices had no natural light or windows, and the unsatisfactory acoustics of the room designed for plenary sessions, and wondered whether it would be possible to raise the height of the building. The distance separating it from the office building was a still more serious diffi- culty. In conclusion, Mr. Cowell thought it would probably be necessary to give further study to that part of the plan.
(31) After some discussion, Mr. MONTAGNIER said that in his opinion there was no question of modifying the general structure, but that further study was required - a view with which all the architects concurred.
(32) It was decided to adjourn discussion of that point, pending the receipt of further information. MISCELLEANEOUS QUESTIONS
(33) The minutes of the last session were approved, subject to any corrections that had already been or might be received. The meeting rose at 1.30 p. m. ELEVENTH SESSION FIRST MEETING Monday, 29 June 1953, at 10 a. m. Chairman: Mr. PARRA-PEREZ (Venezuela)
(1) Opening the session, the CHAIRMAN extended a welcome to Miss d’Olne, replacing Mr. Pater- notte de la Vaillee and to Mr. Pompei, replacing Mr. de Clementi. ITEM 1 - ADOPTION OF THE PROVISIONAL AGENDA (11 HQ/l)
(2) At the CHAIRMAN’s suggestion, it was agreed to start with the items of particular interest to the architects, namely, items 6, 5. 2 and 4.
(3) Subject to the above change of order, the agenda was adopted. ITEM 2 - APPROVAL OF THE SUMMARY RECORD OF THE TENTH SESSION (10 HQ/SR)
(4) The Summary Record of the Tenth Session was approved. - 136 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   H e a d q u a r t e r s  C o m m i t t e e VI-11.1 ITEM 6 - CONSIDERATION OF THE PRELIMINARY PROJECT AND ESTIMATED COST OF CONSTRUCTION (2 XC/2 and
(5) Introducing document 2 XC/2 Addendum 1, the ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL stated that, since the Committee’s last meeting, the estimates of building costs presented by the group of three architects had been carefully reviewed and checked; further, Member States had been asked to draw up their own estimates. Such precautions did not in any way imply lack of confidence in the architects, but had been taken simply in order to be able to speak with real authority before the General Conference. Detailed estimates for each unit of the plan were given in document 2 XC/2 Addendum 1.
(6) Mr. MONTAGNIER added that when the Secretariat had received the architects’ estimates, it had forwarded them to Mr. Roger Lemoine, an auditor of building costs, to be checked. Mr. Le- moine had submitted a report of considerable length, containing his own estimates for the various categories of buildings. As compared with those of the three architects, they were as follows: Mr. Lemoine’s estimates Architects’ estimates Secretariat 1,381,322,460 French francs 1,519,374, 000 French francs Executive Board building 37, 790, 040 ” ” 47,304,000 ” ” Conference building 449, 242,600 ” ” 452, 771, 000 ” ” Outdoor arrangements 111,070,000 ” 100, 651, 000 ” ” Ground floor connexion between Secretariat and Conference Hall 15,660,000 ” ” Included in figure for Secretariat building
(7) The difference between the architects’ estimates and those of Mr. Lemoine was thus only some
125,000, 000 French francs, and Mr. Lemoine expressed the opinion, in the conclusion to his re- port, that the architects’ estimates were as accurate as they could possibly be during the present preliminary stage of the work. In any case, Mr. Lemoine considered that the 15% reduction of the first estimates presented by the architects was a maximum.
(8) Mr. THOMSON (United States of America) enquired whether experts of the French Government had been able to make an additional check of the figures.
(9) Mr. BOUCHARD (France) said that, although no officialy reply had yet been received, the esti- mates finally reached by the French authorities would probably be very similar to those of the ar- chitects and the auditor.
(10) While expressing his satisfaction at such reliable estimates, Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) asked if they were based on the type of Conference Hall shown in the model before the meeting, or on a different type of building providing for more light and air. He recalled that serious objections to the original plan of the Conference building had been raised.
(11) The ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL confirmed that the estimates were based on the plans as presented by the architects and approved by the Committee. Whether any changes should be made when implementing the plans would be for the three architects to decide; it might be that they would submit alternative plans for the Conference building, in which case new estimates would have to be prepared.
(12) Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil), seconded by Mr. MALIK (India), moved that the Committee approve the architects’ estimates in document 2 XC/2 Addendum 1 for submission to the General Conference.
(13) The proposal was unanimously adopted. ITEM 5.2 - BUILDING SCHEDULE FOR THE HEADQUARTERS (11 HQ/5 and 11 HQ/7)
(14) Speaking on item 5 in general, Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil) emphasized the importance of ensuring continued collaboration between the three architects and the International Panel of Five Architects - 137 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   VI-1 1.1 H e a d q u a r t e r s  C o m m i t t e e until the construction of the Headquarters building had actually been completed. He suggested that the Chairman of the Panel or a member designated by him should remain in permanent contact with the three architects. Realizing that his suggestion would call for a certain amount of extra expend- iture, he proposed that the Chairman of the Headquarters Committee, the Chairman of the Panel of Five Architects and Messrs. Breuer, Nervi and Zehrfuss should meet and discuss ways of finding the necessary sum of money.
(15) The ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL drew Mr. Carneiro’s attention to the draft resolution on pages 2 and 3 of document 2 XC/3; the second part of paragraph 2 on page 3 read: “The Head- quarters Committee is authorised to convene and consult with the International Panel of Five Architects if and when it deems necessary”. Further, on page 1 of document 11 HQ/3. relating to gifts and works of art, it was proposed that a Committee of Art Advisers be established, and that one of its members should be a representative of the Panel of Five Architects. It thus seemed that provision had been made for continued collaboration with the Panel. As for the expenditure involved, the Secretariat had already envisaged a certain budgetary appropriation to implement the draft re- solution in document 2 XC/3. He personally thought that any request for advice or assistance from the Panel of Five Architects in the execution of the plans should come from the three architects themselves, and he asked the Committee to give the matter very careful consideration before agree- ing to Mr. Carneiro’s suggestion and altering the existing provisions.
(16) Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil) observed that he had been aware of the passages quoted by the Acting Director-General, but had felt that they were too vague. His proposal was to make the draft reso- lution in document 2 XC/3 more explicit by inserting, on page 3, the following new paragraph (5): “(5) TO designate the Chairman of the Panel of Five Architects, or his deputy, to follow, in close collaboration with the three architects, the actual execution of the project adopted by the General Conference”.
(17) The CHAIRMAN suggested that Mr. Carneiro’s proposal be considered under item 5.1 - Head- quarters Office. Agreed.
(18) The ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL having introduced documents 11 HQ/5 and 11 HQ/7, Mr. BOUCHARD (France) pointed out that the third paragraph of the letter reproduced in document
11 HQ/7 was perhaps not sufficiently clear. The three months required to demolish existing buildings and level the ground should be counted from the date of the evacuation of the buildings, i.e. from 30 September 1953; the site could therefore be handed over to Unesco on 1 January 1954.
(19) Referring to document 11 HQ/5, Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) asked if “Beginning of main structure” meant the Secretariat building only.
(20) The ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL replied that “main structure” implied all the buildings.
(21) Mr. THOMSON (United States of America) asked whether six months would not be required for detailed designing; it seemed to him optimistic to schedule the digging of the foundations for
1 January 1954.
(22) Mr. BREUER replied that two methods were possible: (1) a general contract covering the whole project could be passed at the start; or (2) everything could be contracted when the project was completed; in the meantime, direct sub-contracts could be passed as the work proceeded. If the first method were adopted, ten to twelve months would probably be required for detailed design- ing, and the buildings would not be completed when Unesco needed them. With the second method, which he would strongly advise, detailed designing would be a little ahead of execution in each case.
(23) It was agreed to transmit documents 11 HQ/5 and 11 HQ/ 7 to the Extraordinary Session of the General Conference. ITEM 4. GIFTS AND WORKS OF ART (11 HQ/3)
(24) Emphasizing the need for a general plan which would ensure aesthetic unity, Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil) proposed that the architects be assigned the additional task of laying down criteria to be - 138 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   H e a d q u a r t e r s  C o m m i t t e e VI-11.1 followed by Member States in selecting paintings, frescoes or statues for donation to the Head- quarters Building. The architects would also be responsible for refusing unsuitable works. Mr. Carneiro suggested that Member States might even be generous enough to offer original master- pieces, such as French tapestries or Greek statues, thus embellishing the building and transforming it into a valuable museum.
(25) Mr. MONTAGNIER recalled that at the Committee’s last meeting, when Mr. Carneiro had not been present, the following procedure had been approved: (1) the Committee of Art Advisers and the architects would meet to discuss a general aesthetic plan; (2) their recommendations would be circulated to Member States; (3) the Committee of Art Advisers and the architects would then meet again to consider offers made by Member States. However, such a procedure could not be envisaged until the detailed plans were ready.
(26) In reply to a question from Mr. THOMSON (United States of America), the ACTING DIRECTOR- GENERAL said that no artists had yet been consulted regarding a general plan integrating the three main forms of art, but the matter had been discussed with Mr. Gropius over the past year.
(27) Referring to Mr. Carneiro’s remark concerning the probable generosity of Member States, Mr. BOUCHARD (France) was not in a position to commit his Government, which had, in any case, already given proof of its goodwill in the case of the Headquarters building; however, personally he hoped that it would be able to contribute towards the general aesthetic plan. He pointed out that the programme of Unesco’s Department of Cultural Activities included a resolution relating to a syn- thesis of the plastic arts. Lastly, he mentioned that the “Commission des Sites” had recently approved the preliminary plan, expressing the hope that, in executing it, there would be collabor- ation between the architects and the competent French services; he hoped that that collaboration would bear on the exterior decoration,
(28) The ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out that it was the architects who were designing the building and that, in the last analysis, it should be left to them to decide whether or not a work of art was suitable.
(29) Mr. GROPIUS drew attention to the fact that certain political difficulties were involved; how- ever, he thought that the architects should at least be given some sort of veto right. The Commit- tee of Art Advisers might well not see eye to eye on all occasions; art was an extremely subjective matter, and some members of the Committee might be in favour of modern art, while others only cared for Old Masters. Personally, he thought the two could be combined, but it was essential to have some central authority to decide upon what was, or was not, acceptable.
(30) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) considered it unfair to saddle the architects with the political responsibility of refusing gifts from Member States; such responsibility should be shouldered by the General Conference, the Executive Board, the Director-General or the Headquarters Committee.
(31) Mr. MALIK (India) proposed that it be left to the Director-General, acting on the advice of the Headquarters Committee, the architects and the Committee of Art Advisers, to decide whether or not a work of art was acceptable.
(32) Mr. BREUER suggested that two representatives of the working architects might sit on the Committee of Art Advisers. With regard to the wording of document 11 HQ/3, he pointed out that architecture also was an art, and that when the intention was to refer to paintings, sculpture or frescoes, those words should be substituted for “art”.
(33) Mr. ROGERS drew attention to the importance of respecting the freedom of artists, who had a sense of responsibility; the problem of ensuring aesthetic unity was not a political one, and its solution should be left as far as possible to the Committee of Art Advisers.
(34) With regard to Mr. Gropius’ suggestion concerning the architects’ right of veto, Mr. DAVIES (Australia) thought it a matter to be decided when the Committee of Art Advisers had been estab- lished and its Rules of Procedure were being worked out. He wondered whether it would be ap- propriate for the representative of the Headquarters Committee, itself an advisory body, to have a vote in the Committee of Art Advisers.
(35) The ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL suggested that the representative of the Headquarters - 139 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.   VI-11.2 H e a d q u a r t e r s  C o m m i t t e e Committee might be an “ex officio” member of the Committee of Art Advisers. He thought that Mr. Breuer’s proposal to add a second representative of the working architects was an excellent one.
(36) Referring to the draft resolution on pages 2 and 3 of document 11 HQ/3, Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) moved the deletion of the last line of paragraph 5 on page 3, and the insertion of the following new paragraph 6: “Delegates to the Director-General the responsibility of deciding, in the light of the advice provided for in this resolution, whether a work of art offered to Unesco should be accepted or rejected”. Adopted. The meeting rose at 12. 55 p. m. SECOND MEETING Monday, 29 June 1953, at 3.30 p. m. Chairman: Mr. PARRA-PEREZ (Venezuela) ITEM 4. GIFTS AND WORKS OF ART (11 HQ/3) (continued)
(1) The CHAIRMAN opened the meeting and reminded members that they had to complete item 4 of the agenda.
(2) Mr. DAVIES (Australia) read the English text of the draft resolution to be inserted in section 5 on page 2 of document 11 HQ/3 and apologized that there had been no time to make a French translation.
(3) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) after congratulating the Rapporteur upon the speed with which the draft resolution had been drafted, pointed out, in connexion with section 4 (a), that a general plan would have to be drawn up for Member States. Mr. DAVIES (Australia) suggested meeting his point by inserting, in paragraph 5 on page 3 of the document in question, the words “in accordance with the general plan established” between “whether” and “they wish”.
(4) Mr. CARNEIRO (Brazil) strongly emphasized his view that the draft resolution should make some mention of the Headquarters Committee, as it was a body set up by the General Conference and consisted of representatives of Member States. He thought that the Panel of Five should form a kind of sub-committee of the Headquarters Committee, which should itself send to the Director- General the report of the five architects. It would be risky to set up too many independent bodies. Mr. Carneiro therefore suggested substituting “Headquarters Committee” for “Director-General” in paragraphs (a) and (b) of the draft resolution.
(5) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) thought that the difficulty could be settled by substituting the words “in the light of the advice available” for “on the advice available” in paragraph 6 of the draft resolution.
(6) The ACTING DIRECTOR-GENERAL held that recourse to the advice of the Panel of Five was optional; responsibility for the choice of the furniture and decoration rested not with the five inter- national architects, as might be gathered from paragraph 5 (page 3 of document 11 HQ/3), but with the three architects appointed, as specified in the second paragraph of section 3 (page 2 of document
11 HQ/3). The Acting Director-General accordingly suggested reversing the order of paragraphs
5 and 6. - 140 - Optical Character Recognition (OCR) document. WARNING! Spelling errors might subsist. In order to access to the original document in image form, click on "Original" button on 1st page.