I-11 PLENARY  ought to point to the positive side of achievement. Of  course, in talking about our positive achievements  we are sometimes referring to successes scored  against barriers that Member States have erected;  and in that case we are giving factual statements,
(78) One or two reference: were made to publica-  tions and, as at every General Conference, begin-  ning with the second one, Unesco publications have  been criticized, I would like to say that, in my  opinion, great strides have been made, particularly  in the past two years, in improving the mechanisms  by which we review our publications before they are  printed in order to make sure that we do not issue  publications that are not of high quality, or that, for  one reason or another, do not need to be published.  I believe, if you were to make a critica! examination  of our publications of the past year or so, that you  would find very few useless or low quality publica-  tions. We have established very good machinery for  checking our manuscripts before publication, and we  have also invited Member States to co-operate with  us in having specialists in various fields review  publications and give us a critical evaluation of them.  These critical evaluations are very helpfut to us in  two ways, and I would appeal to Member States to  co-operate with us in this matter. They give us an  outside judgment of our work, a judgment by the  best intellectuals of the world in the fields 1n which  the respective publications fall. Secondly, when    MEETINGS  these learned persons find that a publication is good,  their good evaluation of it spreads to other intellect-  uals in the field and the publication selis a lot better  and has a lot more influence.
(79) Despite my statement the other day, some de-  legates expressed concern at th~ way I was treating  the staff of Unesco. I do not want tu go into that  again but I can genuinely affirm that 1 do not believe,  since I have been Director-General, that I have ever  interfered with anyone's freedom of conscience or  have in any other way violated, or even threatened,  any rights which a member of the staff as an inter-  national civil servant ought to have.
(80) Mr. President and delegates, I am going to  reply in the Programme Commission to many com-  ments that were made here on programme matters  and I hope that you will not feel offended if I have not  addressed myself to them here. I am taking your  comments on the programme seriously and shall  reply to them on anothe ‘ occasion,
(81) In concluding, may I observe how pleased I am  that some of the delegaiv> made laudatory references  to Dr. Torres Bodet, my eminent predecessor, and  to Dr. Tay'or, who he:d the fort so well in the six  months between Dr. Torres Bodet's term and my  own,  The meeting rose at 5.05 p.m.  ELEVENTH PLENARY MEETING
22 November 1954 at 3.30 p.m.  President: Mr. ZAVALA MUNIZ (Uruguay)  CONTENTS  Communications by the President . . .. ........... 160  Statement by the observer for Paraguay, . . . ........ 161  Second Report of the Credentials Committee . . .....,.. 162  Report of the Administrative Commission on Item 9.3.1 of the  revised agenda (document 8C/JUR/2) and discussion there-  on: Speeches by the delegates of Panama, France, Switzer-  land, Haiti, Italy, German Federal Republic, Denmark, Un-  ited States of America, Lebanon, Uruguay, Colombia, Bel-  glum, Yugoslavia, Japan, Laos, Egypt and the Unitea King-  dom . ...........  COMMUNICATIONS BY THE PRESIDENT
(1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Ladies and gentlemen, the General Committee  - 160 -  ev 0 1 8 0 6 0 61 + 0 0 + +. . 162  regrets to announce the death of a member of the  Belgian delegation, Professor de Thibault. In view  of this sad news, and as a token of the grief which  the General Conference must surely feel - as it is   PLENARY  felt by the General Committee - and as a mark of our  condolence and sympathy with his colleagues in the  Belgian delegation, 1 suggest to the Conference that  we should all rise to our feet for one minute's silence  as homage to our departed friend,
(2) I call upon the delegate of Belgium.
(3) Baron van der STRATEN WAILLET (Belgium)  (Translation from the French): Mr. President, ladies  and gentlemen, it is with deep emotion that I thank  the President for the tribute he has just paid to Mr.  Ivan de Thibault,
(4) A talented, charming and genial man, Mr. de  Thibault, who had a brilliant civil service career  behind him, had specialized in problems of technical  assistance, and had been appointed to speak in the  discussions to be held on this subject during the  present Conference. From the first he was charmed  by this beautiful country; the Uruguayan beaches  cast their spell over him. He loved the sea, and it  was the sea which drew him to his tragic end. The  accident, which took place on Saturday at about  § o'clock and brought consternation upon the Belgian  delegation and the entire Conference, appears to have  been due to a heart attack.
(5) As we were away from Montevideo for our week-  end relaxation, we were not able to inform our friends  in all the delegations of the blow which had befallen  us, before the ceremony of burial which took place  locally on Sunday at 5 o'clock. On behalf of my  country, I wish to thank the Minister of National  Defence, who kindly arranged to be represented at  the ceremony. I would also thank the Director-  General and his staff, who on Sunday travelled to  Punta del Este in order to be with us in that sad  hour. Finally, I should like to thank all those of you  who have since been kind enough to present their  condolences to our delegation. May the memory of  Mr. de Thibault bring us closer together than ever  before in the pursuit of the ideal for which he came  here to battle by our side.
(6) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Ladies and gentlemen, the General Committee reg-  rets to inform the General Conference that, accord-  ing to information received today, the death has  occurred of Mr, Andrei Vishinsky, Vice-President  of the General Assembly of the United Nations and  First Deputy Foreign Minister of the Soviet Union.
(7) I cell upon the delegate of India.
(8) Mr. KABIR (India): Mr. President, fellow dele-  gates. It is my melancholy duty to move on behalf  of this Conference a sincere vote of condolence at  the sad loss which the Union of Soviet Socialist Re-  publics has suffered in the death of Mr. Andrei  Vishinsky. It is not necessary for me to speak at  length of his services; he has been one of the fore-  most figures in the international field, and in the  last few days he had been playing an important part  in bringing the different nations together. By his  death, the United Nations and the cause of peace have  suffered a loss, and Unesco, as an associate of the  United Nations, expresses its sorrow on that account,
(9) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  The proposal of the delegate of India is before the  - 161 -     MEETINGS I-11  meeting for consideration. The Gereral Commit-  tee understands that the vote we are about to take  will be in the form of a communication from the  General Conference to the Soviet Government,  expressing our sorrow at the death of Mr. Andrei  Vishinsky.
(10) If there is no opposition, ! take it that the  motion is approved.
(11) Agreed.  STATEMENT BY THE OBSERVER FOR PARAGUAY
(12) I call upon the observer of the Republic of  Paraguay.
(13) Mr. RAMIREZ (Paraguay) (Translation from  the Spanish): Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen,  on behalf of the Republic of Paraguay, and in accord-  ance with my instructions, I have great pleasure in  announcing to this international assembly, which is  fraught with such consequence to the world, that my  Government, exerc'sing the right it enjoys as a  founder member of the United Nations, formally  communicates to this eighth session of the General  Conference of Unesco its firm intention to adiere  to this Organization, as soon as the requirements  of its domestic legislation have been satisfied,
(14) Paraguay could no longer continue outside this  Organization, which is developing close spiritual  ties between the peoples as a means of opposing the  floods which threaten to sweep away the rights of  men. Moreover, these high objectives now being  pursued throughout the world are in perfect harmony  with the history of Paraguay.
(15) Unesco has undertaken to develop education,  science and culture because through them it is  seeking peace, freedom and justice, principles  which must be upheld if this stricken world is to  receive a new legal and social structure.
(16) As you know, it was in the land of the Guarani  that the first shout of liberty was heard on t1 March
1542, during an act of rebellion by the Paraguayan  people, To the cry of Liberty! Liberty! they  deposed the governor, who was later taken to Spain  on board the caraval Comuneros, built at Asuncion,  In many periods and in various ways this idea has  pervaded our national thinking.
(17) Paraguay, at the imperious command of those  fundamental and universal ideas, has sacrificed  her own existence and with the blood of her sons  has sealed her devotion to those ideals. The exalt-  ation of historic deeds far from being vainglorious,  is a mere statement of fact.
(18) Education in Paraguay, according to the great  Alberdi, became compulsory as long ago as 1857, a  time when it was by no means so in the majority of  European countries. With ita feet firmly planted in  history Paraguay can embark without hesitation on  the course traced by Unesco. A love of education,  of peace and of reapect for international agreements  is deeply rooted in the Paraguayan people. Its  fortunes may have swayed this way and that, as  often happens in the lives of nations and individuals;  yet always its long-established belief in thove stan-  dard principles of human life has remained wishaken.   o-11 PLENARY  Thus the universal values which survive through  the ages are being fortified by the constructive  efforts of this great international Organization,  which is called upon to transform the world and  make possible peaceful coexistence through culture,  education and science.
(18) These brief remarks explain why my country  is joining Unesco, to carry out with its fellows a  realistic and concerted action to bring about a radi-  cal change in internativnal relations, taking those  same principles as a basis for the future. It is  doing so with a full sense of responsibility, at this  eighth session of the General Conference now taking  place in this friendly country, whose institutions are  buttressed by freedom and democracy in the service  of peace and the brotherhood of man.  BECOND REPORT OF THE CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE
(20) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call upon the Chairman of the Credentials :-  Committee.
(21) Mr. BERNAL JIMENEZ (Colombia) (Chairman  of the Credentials Committee) (Translation from the  Spanish): Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, in  conformity with the authorization conferred upon the  Chairman of the Credentials Committee at its first  meeting, I 2ow submit this second report so that the  President, if he thinks fit, may place it before the  General Conference for consideration.
(22) Since the first meeting of the Credentials Com-  mittee the following countries, which had already  deposited provisional credentials, have now submitted  powers found in good and due form, in accordance  with Rule 22 of the Rules of Procedure of the General  Conference: Argentina, Chile, Colombia, Honduras,  Korea, Liberia, Mexico, Netherlands and the Philip-  pines, Powers found in good and due form, in accor-  dance with Rule 22 of the Rules of Procedure of the  General Conference, have also been received from  Saudi-Arabia, which when the first meeting of the  Committee was held had still not deposited any  credentials at all,
(23) It is recommended that the General Conference  consider as fully valid the credentials submitted by  the delegations of the aforementioned Member States  and that these delegations be permitted to take part  in the eighth session of the General Conference.
(24) Letters or telegrams have been received ac-  crediting the delegations of Bolivia and Syria, It is  recommended that the General Conference consider  these documents as provisional credentials of the  representatives of those Member States,
(28) Powers have also been received accrediting an  observer of Paraguay and a representative of the  United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization.  It is recommended that the General Conference .  accept their credentials.
(26) The PRESIDENT (Trazslation from the Spanish):  The report just submitted is open for discussion, If  there is no objection, I will take it as approved.
(27) Approved.  - 16% -     MEET !n~nGS  RE"CAT OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION ON ITEM 9.3)  OF THE REVISED AGENDA (document 8C/JUR/2) AND DISCUS  SION THEREON
(28) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Span-  ish): I call on the Rapporteur of the Administrative  Commission.
(20) Mr. ERIKSSON (Sweden) (Rapporteur of the  Administrative Commission): Mr. President,  fellow delegates, tils report covers only item
9.3.1 of the revised agenda, which concerns the  structure of the Executive Board, and therefore  also draft amendments to Article V of the Consti-  tution and to the Rules of Procedure relating to the  Executive Board, The matter in question was dis-  cussed at several meetings of the Administrative  Comm zsion and was also referred to the Legal  Committee. As the decision of the Administrative  Commission on the report of the Legal Committee  could only be taken this morning, I am sorry to  say that we have not been able to prepare a written  report on the subject. I wish, however, to draw  your attention to the second report of the Legal  Committee, 8C/JUR/2. This document contains,  from the second half of page 1, starting with th»  word Constitution, the text approved by the Admini-  strative Commission for submission to this plenary  meeting of the Conference, The only change made  by the Administrative Commission is, in fact, in  the French edition under A - Composition, para-  graph 4, the last line, where the word portion has  been changed to durée.
(30) The draft amendment to the Constitution,  Article V, was passed by 45 votes for, 8 against,  and no abstentions. The consequent amendments  to the Rules of Procedure were passed unanimously.  The Commission has also decided to request the  Legal Committee to interpret the text in paragraph
3 of Article V, concerning the eligibility of mem-  bers of the Executive Board.
(31) With this introduction I will read the text as it  was adopted by the Administrative Commission. I!  start with the part concerning the Constitution,  Article V, Executive Board.  "A - Composition
1. The Executive Board shall be elected by the  General Conference from among the delegates ap-  pointed by the Me. nber States and shall consist of  twenty-two members, each of whom shall represent  the government of the State of which he is a national,  The President of the General Conference shall sit  ex officio in an advisory capacity on the Executive  Board,  Be 1 0 0 00 0001500
4. In the event of the death or resignation of a  member of the Executive Board, his replacement  for the remainder of his term shall be appointed  by the Executive Board on the nomination of the  government of the State the former member rep-  resented, The government making the nomination  and the Executive Board shall have regard to the  factors set forth in paragraph 2 of this Article.   PLENARY  B.- Functions
12. Although the members of the Executive Board  are representative of their respective governments,  they shall exercise the powers delegated to them by  the General Conference on behalf of the Conference  as a whole.  C - Transitional Provisions
13. The term of office of the members of the  Executive Board during the eighth session of the  General Conference shall end at the close of the  eighth session of the General Conference. At the  eighth session of the General Conference, twenty-two  members shall be elected to the Executive Board  pursuant to the provisions of this Article, of whom  one half shall retire at the close of the ninth session  of the General Conference, the retiring members  being chosen by the drawing of lots. Thereafter,  eleven members shall be elected at each ordinary  session of the General Conference.  Rules of Procedure  XVII, Election of members of the Executive Board  Rule 85 - Elections
1. At each of its ordinary sessions, the General  Conference shall elect by secret ballot eleven mem-  bers of the Executive Bourd.
2. Only a delegate nominated by the government  of the State of which he is a national for election to  the Executive Board may stand for election.  Fe + 001 0 00 00 0000  Rule 95, À - Transitional provision  The term of office of the members of the Executive  Board during the eighth session of the General Con-  ference shall end at the close of the eighth session of  the General Conference. At the eighth session of the  General Conference, twenty-two members shall be  elected to the Executive Board pursuant to the pro-  visions of Article V of the Constitution, of whom one  half shall retire at the close of the ninth session of  the General Conference, the retiring members being  chosen by the drawing of lots. Thereafter, eleven  members shall be elected at each ordinary session  of the General Conference.  Rule 98 - Death or resignation of a member of the  Executive Board  In the event of the death or resignation of a mem-  ber of the Executive Board his replacement for the  remainder of his term shall be appointed by the  Executive Board on the nomination of the govern-  ment of the State the former member represented.  The government making the nomination and the  Executive Board shall have regard to the factors set  forth in Article V, A, 2 of the Constitution. "
(32) The PRESIDENT (Translat. on from the Spanish):  The report which has just been read is open for dis-  cussion. 1 call upon the delegate of Panama.  - 183 -     MEETINGS u-11
(33) Mr. AMADO BURGOS (Panama) (Translation  from the Spanish): Mr. President, Iadies and  gentlemen, through absence, the Panamanian dele-  gation was unable to take pert in the debates of the  Administrative Commission, and is grateful for  being allowed this npportunity to express a few  {deas on the resolution we are now considering,
(34) We do not come as censors: we have the  highest respect for all the governments and dele-  gations represented here. We regard the problem,  not as a governmental or political, but as a cultural  one, and we know that in all countries and delega-  tions, irrespective of the way they vote, there are  people who sincerely hold opposite views.
(35) There are some Unesco matters which appear  to be of purely administrative importance, In fact,  however, they have world-wide repercussions.  They have, of course, no repercussions -n the  millions of men who still, unhappily, les. lives of  spiritual and material impoverishment. Perhaps  they have certain repercussions, in a distorted way,  on those millions of citizens whose governments  restrict their freedom of intercourse with the out-  side world; but assuredly they find an echo in the  hearts of those other millions of men and women  everywhere in the world, who are sustained by  faith and hope; in those millions of intellectuals,  professional men and research workers, who have  hitherto been the strongest bastion of freedom of  thought and action. And they have also found an echo  in the most authoritative organs of the daily press,  with their millions of readers, in the more serious  publications, in institutes, academies, assemblies,  higher education centres and universities all over  the earth. Therefore the decisions taken on these  matters are heavy with consequence. Sometimes,  in the ever more arduous struggle against tutali-  tarian excesses, whether from the left or the right,  they bring fresh armament to bear; and at other  times they depress and discourage the best forces  of humanity, of that humanity which has demanded  and is still demanding an International Declaration  of Human Rights, and which has suffered and is still  suffering unforeseen disappointments.
(36) I am no fanatic, neither am I prejudiced, but  when I have the honour of speaking before this dis-  tinguished gathering, in which America's hopes and  desires for freedom in its subl*mest forms are  centred, I feel bound to ask myself whether this is  really the time or the place to approve an amend-  ment which has been branded, in the Executive  Board of Unesco, by one of the most eminent  authorities in Europe, as retrograde. I wonder  whether this session of the General Conference has  not the right, perhaps even the duty, in the light of  those eternal principles of free humanity, free in-  vestigation, free education, also to look upon those  millions of men of whom I just spoke and to repeat  before them the exemplary words of Artigas, which  are sculptured in the marble of this Palace: "My  authority comes from you and ceases in your  sovereign presence”.
(37) The delegation of Panama, a small country  with big probleme, supports the arguments which  have led the representatives of Uruguay, Belgium,  Denmark, France, Haiti, Switzerland and Yugo-  slavia to object to the transformation of the Fxecutive   I-11 PLENARY  Board into a political body. To these arguments  could be added those brought forward in Paris in  Ilovember 1952. In alluding to them I have no in-  tention of levelling the slightest reproach at the con-  trast between an opinion freely held at that time and  the resolution which is being voted today. Neither  the circumstances nor the arguments have changed,  but as the representative of a government I know  that I myself may be faced with a similar situation.  I allude to them in order to say to the other delega-  tions: read these arguments and then you will under-  stand how governments, for reasons which are no  doubt legitimate, but of immediate concern, can  exert their influence to modify decisions on matters  of permanent value. I should further like to reply  to a statement which has been made more than once  in these debates, It has been maintained that gov-  ernments are inherently good. Governments may  be a necessity, but frequent interventions by govern-  ments, constant political interventions in problems  of education, science and culture, are as a general  rule pernicious. To uphold the contrary view is  tantamount to repudiating the best traditions of the  universities and cultural centres of Europe and  America.
(38) Hitherto governments have exercised, and they  still exercise, three distinct forms of legitimate  influence upon this Organization. They have exer-  cised it by nominating the delegations to sessions of  the General Conference, which in its turn directs  the Organization. They have exercised it by restrict-  ing the election of members of the Executive Board  to members of the delegations appointed by the gov-  ernments themselves. Finally, they have exercised  it by accrediting permanent representatives in Paris,  This, apparently, is not enough. It is desired that  even the men appointed to execute the decisions shall  be subordinate to the demands of the policy of their  respective governments. It is desired that every  vestige of universality shall disappear, de facto if  not de jure. The members of the Executive Board  will change in accordance with changes of govern-  ment. And this is called realism. It sas been  claimed that the members of the Boz - t -1ready act  as government representatives. The Jelegation of  Panama does not believe it. On 18 November 1952,  Mr. Verniers, of Belgium, refutei this assertion.  He said that for five years he had been a member of  the Executive Board, that he had never asked for  instructions from Brussels and that his Government  had never permitted itself the slightest suggestion,  even in cases where opinions and votes were not to  its liking, This is the type of international civil  servant whom it is our duty to train, to support and  to protect, instead of abandoning and destroying him.
(39) The considerations which have led the Panama-  nian delegation to oppose the amendment to the struc-  ture of the Executive Board are based entirely on  arguments of principle and arguments of experience,  which I will briefly expound. The United Nations,  without doubt, constitutes an international court; but  this is not, and cannot be, its most important function,  however much the great Powers have desired to pro-  claim it as such. Essentially the United Nations is  the great act of faith of the twentieth century. Through  its Specialized Agencies it is seeking, in matters of  health, labour, food, education, science and culture,  - 164 -     MEETINGS  to provide a better life for man, who today is  threatened, more seriously than by nuclear fission,  by those aberrations of thought which, since the  middle of the nineteenth century, have regarded  him not as an end in himself, but as a means, an  instrument or a cog in a wheel of immediate pur-  pose, whether that of a business concern, or of a  State and a government. It is urgent to prevent the  further spread of this wrong-headedness; it is  urgent to strip education of materialism, with its  insistence on the useful, the mechanical, the im-  mediate. If materialism continues to flourish, we  shall arrive at the negation of all spiritual values;  we shall witness the decline of our heritage, both  aesthetic and moral, and the breeding of a mentality  which is fertile ground for those political extremes  repudiated by our civilizations, The intervention  of governments in the Executive Board of Unesco  seems to the delegation of Panama, on a long-term  view, to be a disconcerting step in the wrong  direction,
(40) The practical arguments are 1lso numerous.  They have already been expounded in masterly  fashion by other delegates. I will only add that I  have had an opportunity of learning from experience  the disadvantages of transforming international civil  servants into government representatives, For  three years in Geneva I represented the Panamanian  Merchant Fleet at the International Labour Organi-  zation. The Rules of Procedure of ILO did not re-  quire that members of the Governing Body should  be representatives of governments, but, when some  of them thought and spoke in that capacity, the ob-  jectivity of its decisions vanished. In the end I  found it quicker and less difficult to refer matters  to them through the Chanceries themselves or by  some indirect channel, Such are the indecisions,  complications, delays and superfluities resulting  from the suppression or even the weakening of the  function of international civil servants in organiza-  tions of this kind.
(41) When large nations try to stop smaller peoples  from making tragic mistakes, it is customary for  a cry to go up in some quarters about the need for  realism. Realism is doubtless a healthy and a  balanced attitude of mind, which may well be ap-  plied to things and facts; but it is out of place in  the moral sphere, in the principles of right and in  the demands of the spirit. We, the small nations,  shall be realists if we understand that the Great  Powers of the twentieth century must necessarily  regard problems from angles considerably different  from ours, if we acknowledge that they can steer  the activities of Unesco at their own free weill,  whenever they turn a deaf ear to the voices of dis-  tinguished men, both ours and theirs. They have on  their side the importance of their financial contri-  butions, their superior initiative, their own material  greatness and strength, But the Great Powers will  be realists in their turn if, instead of measuring the  extent of their own reserves, they pay more atten-  tion to gauging the deep distrust felt by many peoples  equally deserving respect for certain aspects of  materialistic and utilitarian civilization. They will  be realists if they understan” that the demands of  liberty and culture, as every people conceives and  defends them, must not be confused with the   PLENARY  condescension of governments. Lastly, they will be  realists if they reject or at the very least defer the  plan to reduce Unesco to the level of other interna-  tional institutions of a governmental nature; if they  do not permit government authority to eclipse the  assertions of culture.
(42) The universities and higher education centres  have prospered only where governments have had  no peg on which to hang their Lats, nor have even  left their visiting cards, Let us not forget this when  we come to the vote.
(43) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):
1 call upon the delegate of France.
(44) Mr. BERTHOIN (France) (Translation from the  French): Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the  significance of today's debate must appear to me  decisive, and the force of my conviction be great in-  deed, if, at this stage, when the result already  seems a foregone conclusion, 1 mount this rostrum  to make known the views of France.
(45) But we should surely be misunderstood if we  were silent at a moment when you are about to take  a decision on a text which apparenily marks a new  departure, introducing a far-reaching innovation  into one of the basi: principles of the Charter that  unites us.
(46) There is no need at this juncture to trace the  background of the resolutions on which we have to  vote, nor to recall in detail the exhaustive discus-  sions that have taken place in our Administrative  Commission. I shall do no more than crave your  indulgence while 1 demonstrate, by means of a com-  parison that I should like to make as clear and con-  cise as possible, the distinction between the present  procedure and the one now proposed - a distinction  which applies to the letter, if not to the spirit.
(47) What actually happens under the present system?  And whai may happen if there is disagreement bet-  ween a member of the Executive Board and the  government of his country? Let us assume that a  delegate of a particular government - appointed,  therefore, by his government - an outstanding  personality of high culture and reputation is  appointed a member of the Executive Board. From  that moment he may be said to be outside the scope  of national control. But, be it observed, he is  outside it only for a temporary period, at most for  four years. If his government ceases to nominate  him as a delegate to our Conference, he is tten de  facto no longer eligible to serve on the Executive  Board. Thus national control, national sanctions,  can be completely and unreservedly exercised,  should the occasion arise. So far, I imagine that  everyone present must agree with what I aia saying.
(4€) But let us get away from our texts, fiom our  legal procedure and interpretation, and le: us look  at the matter from the moral standpoint. Let us  consider the duties of the man on whom his govern-  ment has conferred the signal honour of ominating  him to take his seat among us and who, ipso facto,  being already unofficially proposed by his govern-  ment, receives the additional honour, the major  distinction of being called to sit on the Executive  Board. It may be that this man finds himself in dis-  agreement, during his term of office, with some new  - 185 -     MEETINGS I-11  policy started in his own country. Or it may be  that, for reasons of his own, he has turned his  back on the general policy of his government, not  of course - let me make this quite clear - within  the normal framework of party politics, which are  a credit to genuine democracies, but because he is  fundamentally oppcsed to the régime itself. In that  case I say that this man, if he does not want to lose  his self-respect and the respect of his fellow men,  if he simply wishes to be honest, must resign from  the office which, directly or indirectly, he holds  under the government of his country.
(49) Indeed, if we did not respect these rules of  elementary morality, by what right could we claim  to be elevating the conscience of mankind and point-  ing the way for the peoples of the world? Never-  theless, that would appear to be the danger that  Unesco, by the amendment in question, is trying to  provide against,
(50) Let us see, then, what will happen if you adopt  the new text. What was hitherto done unofficially  will henceforth be done in the broad light of day.  A government will say: I propose that such and  such a delegate shall represent me on the Board,  with the approval of the General Conference, But  there comes along a new government, which con-  siders that it is not represented by the nominee of  its predecessor, and asks him to resign, Suppose  the representative refuses: what can the govern-  ment do? Nothing, except take note of the refusal  and wait until his term of office expires, that is to  say, exactly what it would be obliged to do under  the present systein. Of course, there will now be  a direct official link where previously there was  only a moral link. Are we quite certain that, for  us, the moral link would not prove the stronger  and that what the authors and supporters of the  amendment desire would be any better guarantee?  In fact, we are given the first and the middle term  of a syllogism, but not the conclusion; and the  conclusion, as you all must feel, is the recall from  office. Happily, however, it was formally stated  in the Comrnission that recall is impossible. So  much for the new security the proposed text offers  our governments!
(51) But what a price we are going to pay for this  new security! We are going to proclaim to the  world, in the most solemn way we can, that we  have no confidence in those distinguished men whom  our Charter desired to make the permanent Board  of our Organization. We are going to proclaim that,  by becoming direct representatives of the govern-  ments appointing them, and only to a lesser degree  the representatives cof the others, the members of  the Executive Board will no longer be free men.  Unesco's policy will be settled outside Unesco by  prior consultations, by the inevitable arrangements  between governments. Doubtless the framework  will be maintained and the fagade preserved, but  within or behind will be only what political expedi-  ency has decided to place there. Admittedly,  generosity may still be there, but do we want to  set up a form of international paternalism? Is that  to be the inspiration of our acts and the guide to  our conduct? | am thinking just now of certain  small countries, small in territory or strength,  but as great as the others in everything else -   n-11 PLENARY  countries which I shall have learned to know and to  love through coming kere. I am thinking of the at-  mosphere in which we now live, in this beautiful  country, where all of us are learning to be citizens  of the world. I am thinking of the manifold contacts  we make each day. Among us there are, in reality,  neither small nor great nations any more, there are  only human beings with equal rights; here are  neither rich nor poor, but all are rich - inexhaustibly  rich - in trust and friendship; here there are  neither believers nor infidels, but we are all devo-  tees of a single faith which makes all our hearts  beat as one. Even when the language barrier  prevents us from exchanging our thoughts, when lips  must remain silent, looks can speak, understand one  another and bring about the deep communion of souls.
(52) Let us make the most of the time that is left,  for the future that awaits us will no longer have the  same inspiration nor the same atmosphere. Inevi-  tably, the disappearance of that institutional indep-  endence to which members of the Executive Board  may today lay claim, if necessary, vis-â-vis their  respective governments, and which enables the gov-  ernments themselves to resist any too pressing  interventions that may be directed against them, will  imperceptibly, perhaps very rapidly, cause Unesco  to become a kind of closed shop in which assoried  coalitions of satellites will ultimately be formed and  will consequently oppose one another. Between  today's and tomorrow's position there will be all the  difference, illustrated in such masterly fashion by  Bergson, between closed morality and open morality.  Intellectual co-operation, the fount of understanding  and conciliation, is threatened with penetration and  domination by political considerations which it was  hitherto our duty to ignore, Tomorrow we shall not  even have the right to ignore them.
(53) And all this - I hope that I am wrong, but my  fears are grave - all this may come upon us much  more quickly than we think. In order to avoid diffi-  culties, governments may feel obliged to send to the  General Conference men selected not only for their  intellectual distinction but also - let us be frank -  for their natural docaity. Astuteness and skill may  be placed on the same footing as intrinsic worth.  Political and financial considerations will soon out-  weigh the others. The vicious circle of cause and  effect will inexorably drag us into a situation which  each of us, in the depth of his heart, can only dread.
154) You all know the traditional attitude of France  and no one will be surprised if she asks you to weigh  your decision very carefully, That decision will  certainly be fraught with many consequences for the  future of Unesco. At a time when so much advice  has bzen lavished on my country counselling her to  embark upon the path of what is called supra-  nationalism - which is still the best path to the  future - why, when timid attemp.s were made to  introduce the supra-national idea into our Organiza-  tion, is it now desired to suppress it? :
(55) I need not add that, if the concept of universal-  ity were to suffer a setback as a result of your vote,  France would in no way change hei traditional atti-  tude. She would only feel regret that into this temple  of the mind a spirit had entered that seemed to her  to run counter to her hopes for the future of the Or-  ganization and that here, where all that is best and  - 166 -     MEETINGS  noblest in the human mind is concentrated together,  all that wealth of the spirit may one day be at the  mercy of the temporal fluctuations and political  contingencies to which our governments are inevi-  tably subjected.
(56) Before I step down from this rostrum, where  each of us has an obligation to speak with a freedom  we do not always enjoy elsewhere - and we all know  to what a great and noble people we owe that free-  dom - let me tell you about something that happened  to me a short while ago.
(57) One evening, I opened at random an old book  containing some of the finest pages of ancient story.  It was one of those books whose yellowed leaves one  turns with mingled humility and respect. My eyes  fell upon a passage from a Philippic in which the  greatest orator of all time addresses his fellow  citizens. As usual, he spoke severely, he warned  them against taking the line of least resistance,  against losing their self-respect; he reminded  them of the general moral principles whose un-  troubled sway endures throughout the centuries and  the abandonment of which was to spell the doom of  sacred Attica. And then, as if he felt that to carry  his audience with him, he must speak from the very  depths of his soul, Demosthenes cried: "Athenians,
1 should like to please you, but | had rather save  you!"
(58) My friends, may that noble sentiment guide  the vote we shall shortly take, Heaven send that,  in departing from the straight and trustful path, we  do not quench the pure flame of freedom and hope  that men of goodwill have entrusted to our protection!
(59) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Span-  ish): 1 call upcn the delegate of Switzerland.
(60) Mr. de SALIS (Switzerland) (Translation from  the Frerch): Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen,  I ask your permission to explain the attitude of the  Swiss delegation, which will shortly vote in favour  of the status quo, that is to say against the arnend-  ment by the United States of America on the reform  of the Executive Board.
(61) Our representative in the Administrative Com-  mission has already explained, in the meeting of
16 November, why the Government of my country  has instructed us to uphold the present system as  regards the election and responsibilities of mem-  bers of the Fxecutive Board, I can therefore be  brief.
(62) You know that our delegation to the General  Conference has constimly defended the existing  provisions of Unesc:‘s Constitution. We are natu-  rally sorry that a fairly high proportion of delega-  tions from friendly countries do not share our views  on this important question. But, after studying  their arguments closely, we still do not feel able  to change our point of view.
(63) First of all, we would emphasize that no ex-  press criticism has been levelled at the Executive  Board in its present form. On the contrary, this  Conference has paid tribute to its positive achieve-  ments, It is asserted, however, that we shall re-  inforce the authority of the Board and simplify its  task if we decide that in future its members shall  represent the government of the State of which they   PLENARY  are nationals, whereas hitherto they have been  elected in a personal capacity and are responsible  only to the General Conference.
(64) Has the Executive Board itself ever made any  pronouncement on this question which directly con-  cerns it? If it has, its views are not known to us.  Although, in one way, such discretion is under-  standable, we coñsider that an essential element is  thus lacking, if we are to arrive at a sound judgment  of the situation. For we are about to take a vote,  and still we do not know what the Executive Board  thinks about this revision of the Constitution.
(65) I beg you to believe that the supporters of the  status quo are not acting out of sheer obstinacy and  have no thought of making an empty gesture when  they warn the Conference against a decision which,  in our view, violates the independence of the Execu-  tive Board. It is certainly not our intention to piay  the part of prophets of disaster. As good democrats  we shall accept the majority decision. We shall  join in the future work of the Organization in the  same spirit we have always shown.
(66) But Switzerland has always defended the indep-  endence of international organizations vis-à-vis their  Member States. It considers that the fewer political  and governmental influences there are in the field of  education, science and culture, the better. Demo-  cracy, as we understand it, is moreover closely  akin tc certain democratic practices in America and  the British Commonwealth, in that it believes in the  efficacy of the principles of self-government and  responsible government, and has confidence in the  men who freely assume the responsibilities of public  office, If we are not in a position to support the pro-  posed amendment submitted by the American dele-  gat.on, the reason is that we would have liked to see  the practice of responsible government upheld, as  well as a certain individual liberty for members of  the Executive Board, This seems to us to be a gua-  rantee of the objectivity of the deliberations and  decisions expected of the Executive Board.
467) Furthermore, the more those decisions are  characterized by the spirit of independence and by  the desire for objectivity, the greater will be the  confidence in Unesco displayed by educators, scien-  tists and cultural representatives everywhere in the  world, and the easier it will be for us to fulfil our  task of spreading the gospel of international under-  standing and the brotherhood of man.
(68) Mr. President, perhaps the ascendancy of the  sovereign State is a sigr of the times. We could  have desired that Unesco might still be able to sail  for some time sheltered from the winds that blow  from that direction, so as the better to gain the  open sea.
(69) The New York Times, in an article dated from  Montevideo, said a few days ago that our Organiza-  tion "has to face an issue that may seriously change  the Organization's character”. This appraisal of  our present situation seems to us correct. It would  indeed appeer probable that the decision this Con-  ference is called upon to take by a two-thirds maj-  ority may seriously change the character of our  Organization, This, then, is the very reason why  the Swiss delegation has been anxious to explain its  vote, in the covrse of a debate the freedom and frank-  ness of which re infinitely valuable.  - 167 -     MEETINGS I-11
(70) Our country will remain faithful to the idea of  Unesco and to Unesco itself, Even though its struc-  ture be modified, Unesco can count upon us as a  faithful partner. So far as in us lies, we intend  to co-operate fully in the work undertaken towards  achieving the aims of this world organization.
(71) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Span-  ish): I call upon the delegate of Haiti,
(72) Mr. LALEAU (Haiti) (Translation from the  French): Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, 1  shall be brief. I wish merely to indicate the posi-  tion of the Haitian delegation in regard to the United  States proposal, as ! have already done, by an un-  equivocal vote, in the Administrative Commissior.  We are resolutely against the amendment. We are  convinced that this proposal, which turns members  of the Executive Board, from being delegates of  Unesco, into direct representatives of their govern-  ments, jeopardizes the independence of the Board  and weakens the very foundations of the Organization,
(73) Unesco is an association, not of governments,  but of the peoples of the world, developing under  the aegis of education, science and culture, alt of  which transcend the boundaries of States, In this  it is akin to the United Nations, from which it  sprang; and the United Nations did not hesitate -  and this was an innovation in international relations -  to proclaim clearly in the first words of the San  Francisco Charter that it constitutes, and intends  to remain, a bond and a pact between men of good-  will in all the corntries of the world, and not only  hetween their leaders. "We the peoples of the  United Nations", it is written.
(74) The fact is that governments succeed one  another and are not always alike. It would not be  at all surprising if the man who today represents  one of them on the Board were tomorrow to see its  successor withdraw from him that confidence which  is essential to the loyal exercise of his functions,  This would naturally lead to a conflict between that  goverament and Unesco, which would be harmful  not only to the prestige so vital to our Organization,  but also to the faith which it must inspire in all who  have enthusiastically adhered to it.
(75) 1 do not like being a prophet either, especially  a prophet of disaster, My name is not Cassandra.  But if my fears of today were to become tomorrow's  reality, we should certainly not be glad at it. Some-  times it is very painful to be right. But perhaps we,  the delegation of Haiti, would then be able to cry:  "We are innocent of the blood of this just man...
(76) It costs us something, however, to oppose  the resolution proposed by the United States  delegation. In tragic circumstances, not more  than a few weeks ago, the American Govern-  ment and people flew to our aid with a spontan-  eity and generosity which stamped them as  brothers rather than as mere good neighbours.  But gratitude springs from the soul and does not  mean subjugation of thought. We found it hard to  restrain our feelings, but we managed to do so,  and it is the promptings of our conscience that  cause us to maintain in this plenary meeting the  attitude we adopted in the Administrative Commission.
(77) Remember that what you are staking with   I-11  such apparent nonchalance is the very future of  Unesco.
(78) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Span-  ish): I call upon the delegate of Italy.
(79) Mr. BADINI CONFALONIER! (Italy) (Trans-  lation from the French): I asked to speak only in  order to explain my vote, since I do not want to  prolong this discussion by repeating the arguments  already put forward by the Italian delegation in sup-  port of the proposed amendment to the composition  of the Executive Board,
(80) I am anxious, however, to throw a little more  light on our attitude, since we have been told by  certain friendly delegations that we are upholding  State control against liberty of culture.
(81) Let it be clearly understood that we have in no  way changed our point of view, We have been, we  are today, and we shall be tomorrow in favour of  free cultural expression. We are not making a  choice today between individuals and the State. As  things are now, if the Genersl Conference wanted a  certain eminent person in the sphere of science or  culture, who was doing useful work for peace and  human rights - in short, for the aims of Unesco -  to become a member of the Executive Board, it  could not do so unless that person had already been  selected as a candidate by his government and unless  he belonged to the delegation of some Member State.
(82) If this is to be regarded as a fault, it is to be  ascribed to the original Constitution and not to this  amendment. Nor shall we be called upon to vote in  any sense for the Member States; it is not they who  will be the direct holders of the offices concerned,  in spite of what has been published in certain news-  papers.
(83) As in the past, the General Conference must  endeavour, to the best of its knowledge, to see that  the Executive Board is composed of persons in the  educational, scientific and cultural world whe fit-  tingly represent the various disciplines and cultures.  It has been truly and accurately said that the begin-  ning and end of the mandate held by members of the  Executive Board remain unchanged.
(84) The change that we are supporting is above all  intended to Lave an effect during the operation of that  mandate, by strengthening the position of the Board  in the exercise of its functions, which will be the  same as before, and it will thus give the Director-  General, in regard to the preparation and execution  of the programme, some indications which may pro-  vide him with the firmer basis for which he has so  often expressed a desire,
(85) In short, we are not trying to enable govern-  ments to give instructions beyond what they are, in  fact, able to give today; our main interest - on the  lines of the principle of governrient representation  and its still mere strongly implied commitment for  Member States - is to co-operate in the work of  Unesco.
(86) We even think that the members of the Execu-  tive Board cannot fail, in their new status, to have  an increased influence on their governments.
(87) There is one further point I should like to em-  phasize: it is not because we have no confidence in  the Executive Board or in the work it has accomplished  PLENARY     - 168 -  ETINGS  that we have adopted our present attitude; far from  it. We should certainly not wish to increase its  influence, as we are doing, if that were the case,  since we are persuaded that the amendment will  not mean any change in the quality of the persons  elected to the Board.
(88) Indeed, it is for these very reasons and as a  tribute to the qualities of the retiring members of  the Board, that we voted for the amendment sub-  mitted by Japan, to retain on the Board the ten  members whose term does not expire until the  next session,
(89) Since this motion did not obtain the required  majority, we have supported in its turn the proposal  put forward today, transitional provisions being  necessary in any event. In any case, I should like  to take this opportunity of renewing the expression  of our gratitude to the retiring Board.
(80) We do not think the proposed amendment will  bring about governmental control of Unesco to any  greater degree than at present, because Unesco is  in any event an organization of States; especially  since, as I already said in the general debate, Italy  desires to see a more lively co-operation between  the free forces of culture, and this can be achieved  in still larger measure if there is closer and more  active co-operation between National Commissions,  Those are the reasons why the Italian delegation  will vote in favour of the amendment tabled by the  Administrative Commission.
(91) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Span-  ish): I call upon the delegate of the German Federal  Repul-lic.
(92) Mr. LOEFFLER (German Federal Republic)  (Translation from the French): Mr. President,  ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Germun  delegation I should like to explain why we shall  vote for the amendment. 1 will admit that no deci-  sion has caused us so much heart-burning as this,  It involves a number of vitally important questions.  Under the present system, paragraph 12 of Article  V of the Unesco Constitution provides that the mem-  bers of the Executive Board shall exercise the  powers delegated to them by the General Conference  on behalf of the Conference as a whole and not as  representatives of their respective governments.  Clearly the idea is to make them representatives  of Unesco as such, that is to say, to provide a  strong expression of the special juridical and socio-  logical character of this world organization. Some  have regarded this as an expression of the autonomy  of the cultural life of the world united in Unesco;  the recognition, in fact, of the principle that culture  is not an instrument of political power or of the  State, but that it must be free from all political  and governmental commitments. It is, however,  understood that this principle, which colours the  entire philosophy of Unesco, is in no wey modified  by the amendment in question. The special experi-  ence we possess of the relations between culture  and the State enables us to make that point.
(93) Secondly, we would insist that the amendment  must not lead to any change in the qualifications  demanded of persons nominated for the Executive  Board, There must be no substitution of mere   PLENARY  government officials for personalities holding lead-  ing positions in the cultural life of their countries  and of the world. The fact that also, according to  the smendment, the election of members is to be  the province of the General Conference, should be  a guarantee of that.
(34) Consequently, the amendment, in our view,  simply means making the governments jointly res-  ponsible with their nationals who, on their proposal,  have been elected to the Executive Board. If the  amendment is adopted, the Board will continue to be  subordinate to the General Conference, and, in  particular, when there is a conflict between an  instruction given by the Conferences and instruction  received from a government, the former will have  priority.
(95) To sum up, the amendment is simply the org-  anizational expression of the fact that Unesco is an  association of States, and that those States, by ad-  hering to Unesco, have accepted the obligation to  safeguard and protect the freedom of cultural life,
(96) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call upon the delegate of Denmark.
(97) Mr. NIELSEN (Denmark): Mr. President,  fellow delegates; as I mount this rostrum, I realize  that the voie we are about to take on this issue is  probably decide? Leforehand, since most of the dele-  gations will vcte : ~cording to instruc ions from their  government. ‘Lo that extent al} interventions in this  debate may be in vain. However, as the proposal  makes a radical change in the spirit of our Constitu-  tion, it is perhaps not quite useless that the views of  those who do not agree with the United States propos-  als on this important issue shall be put before the  meeting.
(98) In that respect, I fear that future meetings of  the Executive Board, if this proposal is adopted, will  be somewhat similar to the debate in which we are  involved this afternoon. On important questions the  members of the Board will arrive with definite brief-  ings from their governments, and words spoken in  the debate will be spoken in vain. It will only be on  minor issues that members of the Board will be able  to bring their own judgment to bear. The Board  will - more or less - become an instrument of  Foreign Min'stries, This was certainly not the  intention of ti'e founders of U-esco. When we met in  London in 1943, it was the expressed intention of the  Conference - ard it was specifically supported by  the delegation of that country which now moves the  change - that we should, as far as possible, keep  Unesco outside day-to-day politics, and should en-  trust the conduct of affairs between Conferences to  independent represertatives of the cultures of the  different areas of the world, who would at the same  time represent the main fields of the mind which are  Unesco's domain,
(99) What then has brought about the change of views?  In the discussion which has been going on these days  I have never heard any criticism levelled at the work  done by the Board in these eight or nine years, a  point which was stressed just now by the delegate of  Switzerland. 'n all these years I have followed the  work of the Board closely, although it is only in the  last two years that I have gained inside experience  - 169 -     MEETINGS I-11  as a member of the Board. With this experience
1 venture to say that some of the documents placed  before this Conference by the Boa-d, and to which  some of the speakers have paid tribute, bear wit-  ness to the fact that the Board hae not only dealt  with current administrative detail, but has tried -  without governmental instructions and without pre-  conceived ideas - to do some amount of thinking on  the fundamental problems of Unesco. It is my  conviction that these discussions would hardly have  been possible in this harmonious «nd open-minded  way, if the members of the Board had had to check  whether their views were agreeable to their  governments.
(100) I feel convinced that the constituent Confer-  ence of 1945 wanted the Board to watch conscien-  tiously over the vital interests of Unesco by not  making it a governmental agency.
(101) I know full well that the proposal has changed  at different stages. Its effects have to some degree  been mitigated by providing that members are to be  chosen from among delegates tc the General Confer-  ence, a provision to which the honourable delegate  of Italy has just referred. It may well be that this  mitigation of the original propcsal was decisive in  changing the minds of delegations, but it should not  conceal the spirit behind it.
(102) The authors of the prop»nsal have pointed to  the kind of persons that will be chosen as members  even under the new regulatior.s and, unless future  experiance shows the contrary, 1 anticipate, and 1  am glad to say so here, that the Conference will  carry out that provision in the spirit in which it is  intended, But I also realize that the double rôle  which members are supposed to play as government  representatives and at the same time spokesmen of  the General Conference may lead to difficulties and  conflict.
(103) The honourable delegate of Germany said a  moment ago that, if there were a conflict between  the intentions of the Conference and the intentions  of the government of the State from which the mem-  ber of the Board came, then the intention of the  General Conference would prevail. I hope he is  right, but I do not find at any point in the proposal  put before us any guaruntee of that, The proposal  before us simply states that the member is the  representative of his government and has at the  same time to act on behalf of the Conference as a  whole.
(104) Let me only mention one point in this respect.  We prescribe regulations about how to proceed if a  member of the Board dies or resigns. We are not  told what will happen if a government which has a  member on the Board should resign. 1 shall not  embark on taat; I put the questior to you, ladies  and gentlemen.
(105) In spite of al! human shortcomings I still feel  that Unesco would Le best served by a team of 22  people who would «ct according to their own con-  science and to the best of their judgment, bearing  in mind at all times the interests of Unesco as a  whole.
(106) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Span-  ish): I call upon the delegate of the United States of  America.   o-i1 PLENARY
(107) Mr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America):  Mr. Piesident, ladies and gentlemen: There is one  point I should like to make clear first of all, The  proposals now before this plenary meeting are not  the proposals of the United States of America. They  were originally the proposals of the delegations of  four countries, the United Kingdom, Brazil,  Australia and the United States of america. They  have since become the proposals of the Administra-  tive Commission of our Conference. They have be-  come the proposals of 45 delegations which voted  for this change this very morning,
(108) We are the first to recognize that the decision  before us is a very important one. It deserves our  most careful consideration, and I submit that the  Administrative Commission gave these proposals  the most careful consideration extending over a long  series of meetings. We were not stampeded by  bursts of oratory into the report which is now before  us. No one was dragged into a decision against his  better judgment by outside pressures on the part of  any big States. I wish, at least in this our Organi-  zation, in Unesco, that we could get away from this  notion of big and small. In the area of culture that  difference, as we see it, does not exist. The size  of a country, or its military or economic power, is  no indication of its cultural achievements. It is  those who talk about the big and the small who attempt  to bring political considerations into our midst. My  delegation as a delegation objects to that nction, in  Unesco above all. No, there was no oratory there  was no dragging in of anyone. What the Administra-  tive Commission did was to consider most carefully  what was best for our Organization - what was best  for the future of Unesco - what was best for the ad-  vance of education, science and culture in the world,
(109) We started with a discussion of the reasons in  favour of a change in the present arrangements, It  was realized that the Executive Board is the very  heart of Unesco, It is the one representative body  that meets frequently; it is the only representative  body that meets more than every second year. We  recognized also that this Board has extremely heavy  responsibilities in the administrative field, in the  financial field and in the development of rules and  regulations,without which no organization can function.  All these are matters of primary interest to govern-  ments. We further recognized that this Board is  frequently confronted with major politicai issues.  It in the Board which recommends, for instance, to  this General Conference which countries are eligible  for membership. And, most important of all, we  recognized that it is the responsibility of the Board  in co-operation with the Director-General to carry  out the programme which we meet every two years  to define.
(110) Thus the Executive Board is at the very heart  of cur Organization. The fact that we now meet only  every second year makes the Board all the nore im-  portant. And we realized that no body composed .of
20 or 22 or even 30 individuals could carry these  heavy responsibilities without help - the heip of  experts, financial experts, programme experts and  others. As long as the Board is composed of indi-  viduals serving in their own capacity, these expert  services which governments can provide are not  available to us.    MEETINGS
(111) We recognized also that, if this change  were made, if this Board should in future be com-  posed of government representatives, it would  gain in stability, the whole Organization would  g£&in in stability. There would be more continuity  in our work.
(112) Even at this Conference we have been struck  by the fact that a good many decisions and recom-  mendations of the Board did not find favour with  this Conference. This is no criticism of the Board,  What is important is that the Board, composed as  it is at the present time, in no way commits gov-  ernments, that there is very often a hiatus between  the Board and this Conference, which is composed  of governments; for after all we are an intergov-  ernmental organization.
(113) That briags me to the last point, which !  believe weighed very heavily with many of those  who finally voted for this change in the Administra-  tive Commission, If this change is made as we see  it, it will increase the confidence of governments  in the Organization. Or to put it differently, more  constructively, it will increase the sense of res-  ponsibility of governments for this Organization.  Let us be quite frank, At the present time, Unesco  in many countries is a stepchild of their govern-  ments, they do not feel responsible for it. When  it comes to the Food and Agriculture Organization  or the International Labour Organization, or others,  there is a keener sense of responsibility than gov-  ernments show with regard to Unesco. We believe  that, if the change is made as here suggested, that  situation will change, that we sha'l get more en-  lightened support for the important! work which  Unesco is doing.
(114) At the same time, we are, of course, not  unsympathetic to the apprehensions of those who  feel that Unesco might become an intergovernmental  organization where the dead hand of bureaucracy  kills all creative impulses, kills t} 2 life of the  spirit. It is for this very reason and in order to  allay these fears that it is proposed to preserve  paragraph 2 of Article V. I want to make it quite  clear that that paragraph will remain in our Con-  stitution. It means that the General Conference  will continue to be bound by the Constitution to  endeavour to include persons competent in the arts,  the humanities, the sciences, education and the  diffusion of ideas, We do not want just government  officials to run this Board. We want to be quite  sure that the men and women who serve on the  Board, from here on, will continue to be outstand-  ing men in their respective fields. And the Con-  ference itself has it jn its hands to guard over that,  because it is not States that will be elected. The  Conference will continue to elect individuals, and  the Conference will be free to reject the candidate  of any government who does not measure up to the  high criteria which are set for membership of the  Board. Finally, the amendment, as now proposed,  also provides that the members of the Executive  Board, while being representative of their respect-  ive governments, shall exercise the powers dele-  gated to them by the General Conference on behalf  of the Conference as a whole. They are responsibie,  not only to their respective governments, they are  responsible to this Conference. They are entrusted  - 170 -   PLENARY MEETINGS u-11  with carrying out the policies as set by the Confer-  ence every two years, It does seem to us that these  are important safeguards and ought to allay the fears  of those who still continue to be opposed to the change  thst is now before this Conference.
(115) A few wards in conclusion. The one thing tlat  struck my delegation, and I am sure it must have  struck other delegations, is the implication that was  quite clear in a good many of the speeches to which  we have listened this afternoon; and that is that  government in itself is evil, that government is  hostile to the arts, hostile to education, opposed to  the sciences and destructive of the spirit. Where,  may 1 agk, would education be, where would science  be, where would culture be today without govern-  ments? Should we have free and compulsory educa-  tion in moat parts of the world? Would it be possible,  as it is in more and more countries, for a boy or  girl to begin his education at the age of three or four  in kindergarten and go through the whole educational  system free up to the university, without govern-  ments? Of course not. And I am not talking of the  developzd countries alone, I have had the privilege  to visit a great many of the so-called underdeveloped  countries. I have seen the magnificent efforts which  are being made there to build schools, to develop  laboratories, to facilitate culture in every way, to  give the people libraries, and it is being done in  nine cases out of ten by governments. No, we cannot  take the view that government is evil, that govern-  ment is destructive of everything that we cherish.
(116) Several speeches this afternoon expressed the  surprising notion that government and freedom are  incompatible, To us who come from the democratic  countries that notion is just incomprehensible. We  just do not understand what is meant by it, for demo-  cratic government, as we understand it, has the  supreme task of safeguarding the freedom of the  individual, of making it possible for the individual to  grow to his full stature, Naturally, government is  not only responsible for scientists and educators and  other cultural leaders, governments represent all  the people; but then Unesco is an organization of all  the people. Unless ve are able to help meet the edu-  cational and culturai aspirations of everyone in our  various countries, high or low, educated or unedu-  cated, we shall fuil in our task, In order to succeed,  we need more, :nuch more, support from governments  than we have had in the past. We believe that such  support will te forthcoming if the amendment before  us is carried, and it is in that hope we trust that the  amendment will meet with the favour of this Confer-  ence. In this way we shall really be better able to  respond to the hopes of all the pecple who aspire to  freedom, to educational and cultural achievement,  who aspire to peace.
(117) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Span-  ish): I call upon the delegate of Leba.on.
(113) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) (Translation from the  French): The attitude of the Lebanese delegation to  the amendments of the Unesco Constitution has not  changed since the last session of the General Confer-  ence. During the discussion in the Administrative  Commission, the Lebanese delegation, by putting  repeated questions to the Chairman of the Commission    -171 -  ani the representative of the Director-General,  tried to obtain some clarification of obscure points  in the amendment proposed by the United States of  America.
(119) We find that in the document submitted to us  by the Legal Committee today, the same obscurities  persist. They are to be found in the following para-  graph: "The Committee noted that none of the draft  provisions submitted to it was at variance or in  conflict with the Constitution or the Rules of Pro-  cedure of the General Conference".
(120) Twice we put this question to the Legal Com-  mittee and the Administrative Commission. The  members of the Executive Board, it is said, shall  represent the General Conference, but shall exer-  cise their functions on instructions given by their  governments. Twice, therefore, we asked the  question: how can the exercise of an essentially  international function be reconciled with submission  to instructions given by particular governments?
(121) As you «now, the Organization, during the  interval between sessions, is governed by its two  organs, the Secretariat and the Executive Board.  You recognize the immunity of the Secretariat,  because it is exercising an international function,  and its staff members are independent of their gov-  ernments.
(122) But does the second organ, the Executive  Board, which is entrusted with supervising the work  of the Secretariat and of ensuring the operation of  the Organization during the interval between sessions,  also exercise an international function? If so, how  can the exercise of that function be reconciled with  stipulations and instructions given by particular  governments? Again, at the bottom of the page,  paragraph 4, we read: ‘’In the event of the death  or resignation of a member of the Executive Board,  his replacement for the remainder of his term shall  be appointed by the Executive Board on the nomina-  tion of the government of the State the former mem-  ber represented’. If the government of which the  former member was a representative is already  out of office, what happens? If the government has  changed, whom will the new member of the Execu-  tive Board represent?
(123) Thus, there are obscurities in the text sub-  mitted to us by the Legal Committee and ambiguities  in the report of the Administrative Commission.  That is why the Lebanese delegation abstained from  voting in the Commission. Today we have our backs  to the wall. We are now dealing with a final text,  The obscurities and ambiguities remain, and the  Lebanese delegation must therefore vote against  this text.
(124) The PRESIDENT (Trauslation from the Span-  ish): ! call upon the delegate of Uruguay.
(125) Dr. CARBAJAL VICTORICA (Uruguay)  (Translation from the Spanish): Mr. President,  ladies and gentlemen, Urugucy has explained why  it must oppose the amendment originally tabled by  the United States of America and since supported  by Australia, the United Kingdoin and Brazil, I am  a believer in persuasion and riot in mere repetition.  I shall not repeat the speech’ de in the Admini-  strative Commission, but should like to summarize   m-11 PLENARY  the grounds on which our attitude is based.
(126) Let me say in all sincerity that we have the  greatest respect for the nation that has proposed  this reform and for the delega*‘ons, or perhaps I  should rather say many of the delegr.tions, that  support it, representing, as they do, peoples  admired by Uruguay for their legitimate historical  pre-eminence, for their defence of human freedom  against totalitarianism, and for their contribution  to civilization and culture. To all these c >ntries  Uruguay owes a debt of gratitude and special solid-  arity, because they are honourably fulfilling the  aims of Unesco,
(127) Our attitude is the result of mature reflection,  of the certainty in our minds that the proposed  amendment is a mistake which may have fateful  consequences, We fully understand the contrary  viewpoint; our action des nct spring from the van-  ity of mentors, nor is our rosition childishly cen-  sorious. It would be a grave injustice to claim that  the supporters of the reform are trying to debase  Unesco's aims. But, though we are sure that it is  not so, we cannot rid our minds of the certainty  that the amendment is a mistake.
(128) We know the reasons for it; we have heard  the arguments in favour of the reform: we are all  aware it may be said that the governments intervene  in Uresco because they nominate the delegates, be-  cause they corsult with their permanent representa-  tives, because it is the General Conference, with its  government delegations, which draws up the pro-  gramme and fixes the budget, Moreover, we all  know what 18 meant by political authority, which  dnes what it can and must, and at times exerts its  influence to do certain things not in conformity with  normal juridical precepis.
(129) Faced with this fact, you will say to us: if  governments are already exerting their influence in  this way, why do you not agree to this amendment,  which merely regularizes an existing situation,  makes us recognize things as they are and puts an  end to a comedy that talks about stimulating the  social factors affecting education and culture,  whereas we all know that Unesco is pervaded by  governmental action.
(130) Such unwillingness io think the matter out,  when faced with definite facts, is not realistic and  will not bear good fruit in influencing the behaviour  of mankind, Laws are not made by giving way to  human conduct; laws are not a chronicle, they are  a plan inspired by ideals, encouraging men to do  their duty, but not forcing them to behave in accord-  ance with the general line of conduct, In Unesco  those defects are predominant, and our duty should  be to eliminate them. But in my opinion they will  not be eliminated, they will become more pronounced,  by increasing governmental action. Our aim should  be to effect a reform which opens wide the doors of  Unesco to education, science and culture, the off-  spring of social spontaneity, so that Unesco may  forge an international public opinion capable of  overcoming all political excesses,
(131) if we need a conference of governments, we  already have the United Nations, and cxperience  teaches us that {nfallibility is not always the guiding  light of government delegates, nor are governments  themselves always a guarantee of efficiency.  -172 -     MEETINGS
(132) We want this Organization to use education,  science and culture as watchwords for the world,  so that all peoples may be governed democratically,  so that there may be universal protection of human  rights and national self-determination, transfused  with strong and virile sentiments and enlightened  thought. Thus tyrannies may cease, surviving  only as a terrible memory of a tragic period.
(133) Unesco can accomplish this aim because it  is a body where the frez thought of all peoples can  meet. I do not think this aim can be achieved by  increasing the influence of governmental delegates,  I know that Unesco is not a totalitarian court of  law, but neither can it be a hospitable home for  the accomplices of totalitarianism.
(134) Government delegates, in their new status  of semi-ambassadors, will dissipate their energies  and efforts in the suavities demanded by protocol  and in a mutual exchange of compliments. But  there is a reverse side to the picture: the peoples  will still be subjected to political terror, and they  will look at us amazed, in a kind of stupor, when  we offer them, as a sort of intellectual entertain-  ment, these academic theses promising a better  world, whilst they on their side are divided and  follow temporary occupations in the armed camps  imposed upon them by a world that is always on  the verge of the tragedy of war in the atmosphere  of cold fear so well described by the delegate of  India, But our hopes go much further, The United  States delegate said it is not true that authority is  always a terrible instrument; he added that in the  democracies there is identity, or perhaps it would  be better to say close relationship, between people,  nation and system of government. But the demo-  cracies have learned their creed by distinguishing  between man, society and the instruments of auth-  ority. And we, under a democratic State, living  fully as democrats, desire to see self-governing  schools, self-governing universities, independent  of the political power. ‘Our eminent thinker, that  great teacher Vaz Ferreira, once said: "A uni-  versity under political direction is such a disgrace  that I would prefer to have no university at all".
(135) That is the spirit we want to see in Unesco.  It does not matter to us that the governments  appoint delegates and maintain permanent repres-  entatives. Our desire is to see a proper relation-  ship established between education, science and  culture, as the free expression of thought, untram-  melled by any governmental pressure. In this  spirit, and with ao wish to anger anyone, we have  come here to Unesco and defended the attitude of  Uruguay.
(136) We want to see peace between the peoples.  I share the hope of those who believe it to be a  good augury that here, in the Commissions and  sessions of the General Conference of Unesco, we  are united in what I shall call brotherly conclave;  we support the view that man, the people as a  collection of individual human beings, affirm by  their political organization a constant urge to  evolve and to abide by ... ain principles, and that  the authorities cannot be the exclusive centre of  invention and the creative impulse.
(137) We meet in brotherly conclave with those  who contend that an essential condition for   PLENAR  establishing justice among men is the dictatorship of  class or party, and who affirm that the State is the  sole fount of social life, saying that education,  science and culture must never be divorced from  authority as the generator of minds, as the means  of imposing a political creed,
(138) I accept the idea of a conclave and I believe  that it may be very useful; but we shall the better  exchange impressions, discuss and examine our  conduct and indulge in mutual criticism - which is  very salutary - if here in Unesco we do not act so  much as governmental delegates, if we do not balk  Unesco's work by the vain compliments of protocol -  and if we all remember what we ourselves have  learned since the colonial days under Spanish rule -  the wise maxim: the State is as much bound by the  law as any individual.
(139) Let us strive for world peace without forget-  ting the edict of Unesco that it is a duty for all  States to join the Organization. Unesco does not  affirm the principle of autocracy: it states that the  peoples must strive to assert the principle of demo-  cracy. Unesco does not say that the ideas of the  government must be imposed upon the people by  force; but it does say that Unesco, by means of  education, will enhance the dignity of man and will  watch over the liberty of the peoples,
(140) What we desire is the union of the world on  the basis of this creed. There we have the founda-  tions of a coherent ideological bloc, It is not by op-  posiig one dictatorship to other dictatorships that  we shall, by some miracle, bring into being a demo-  cracy which is the protector of human dignity.
(141) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Span-  ish): I call upon the delegate of Colombia.
(142) Mr. BERNAL JIMENEZ (Colombia) (Trans-  lation from the Spanish): Mr, President, ladies and  gentlemen, it was not my intention to intervene in  this debate. I had already put forward a few brief  considerations in the Administrative Commission,  which studied this problem exhaustively. But in  fact, the procession of eloquent speakers, the em-  phasis, the oratory that has flowed from this rost-  rum gave me a feeling that if some of us, after  careful reflection and considerable mental effort,  had agreed that the formula suggested was a prudent  and sensible one, we may perhaps have made an  irreparable mistake,
(143) But I must frankly confess that the whole  course of the debate, the arguments put forward by  men of such eminence, ty first-class minds, by  distinguished professors, like the speaker whohas  just resumed his seat, and by members of parlia-  ment and cther public figures, have simply brought  us back, after all this deliberation, to my starting  point. What are you after? What does the formula  approved by the great majority - two-thirds - of the  Administrative Commission really set out to do? Is  it to strike a final blow at this Organization we have  all loved from its foundation? Is it to direct it along  tortuous paths which will finally land it in the slough  of despond? I do not believe it.
(144) This formula springs from a lively concern  for the very future of Unesco. It originated with  nations who have been fighting for the concepts so  Y     - 173 -  MEETINGS II-11  often mentioned in the course of this debate: free-  dom and democracy. How could it possibly be  imagined that distinguished peoples who gave their  high patronage to this Organization in its early  days, should be waiting around the corner to deal  it a treacherous blow? The idea is preposterous.  What, then, is the a” endment aiming at? At  something very natural, logical and rational: it is  aiming at co-operation and harmony; it does nc”.  want Unesco to be a loose unilaterai organization  following a chance road in search of its own destiny,  without the support of those who could support it,  and detached from those institutions called govern-  ments. What hard things have been said about gov-  ernments! Why, this afternoon, has authority been  arraigned at the bar of this Organization? Is not  government, is not authority the climax of a long  series of historical endeavours to prevent the  peoples from being plunged into disorder and  anarchy? Does not government precisely represent  the culmination of that prolonged effort to construct  the modern legal order?
(145) How can we talk of strengthening Unesco if  we do not seek a method of co-operation between  State authority and the free action of the peoples?  That, and nothing else, is the purpose of the  amendment.
(146) Perhaps some of you have been imagining  that Unesco would one day be converted into a sort  of international Ministry of Education to replace  and supersede the work of governments and educa-  tion authorities, The representative of the United  States of America brought out this point very as-  tutely when he asked where an organization would  be in that event. He is right, and any motion to  the following effect will be supported by my dele-  gation: that in this Organization the highest values  of the spirit must be congregated; that the repres-  entatives of free and autonomo=s cultural organiza-  tions from all over the world must assemble here;  that for this reason we have other institutions  within the Organization, such as the international  non-governmental organizaticns with consultative  status, which constitute a legion within the Unesco  camp.
(147) But why, at the same time as we increase the  action of those special autonomous organizations  along these universal iines, do we not also try to  strike a balance as regards the support of  governments?
(148) Those of us who have followed the activities  and efforts of Unesco have noticed how in recent  years - and we have a most up-to-date example of  this - it would be fatal to the aims of the Organiza-  tion if there were a complete separation between  government support and the aims of Unesco.
(149) But does the representation of governments  run counter to the free democratic character of  the Organization? Are not governments the auth-  entic representatives of the will of their peoples -  at any rate in most cases and in the maioritv cf  the delegations here present?
(150) It has also been argued that the new system  may lower the intellectual level of the Executive  Board. I would ask you this: if at this moment,  er tomorrow, by approving this amendment, we  proceed to elect the Executive Board, who are the   a-11  candidates going to be? They will be chosen from  among yourselves. You are the leaders of world  culture; you represent, or at least we must pre-  sume that you represent, the culturzl currents of  your respective peoples.
(151) The Isoard, then, will be elected from the  delegates to this Conference; and this process is  to be continued in the future, Why, then, should the  Executive Board lose ir intellectual quality? I can-  not understand the reasoning of some of the dele-  gates who have spoken from this rostrum, such as  my distinguished friend Mgr Maroun, who said that  the Executive Board will have an international  function that cannot be exercised by members rep-  resenting governments. Such an argument would  also apply to the other international bodies composed  of representatives of governments, Does the fact  that a body is composed of government spokesmen  mean that it cannot possibly exercise an international  function? I, for one, do not believe it.
(152) The course of this debate has actually given  greater peace of mind to those of us who support the  motion. We have defended it entirely of our own  free will, because, just as we support this amend-  ment now under discussion, on which we are going  to vote this afternoon, so also, as far as my dele-  gation is concerned, we have been and perhaps still  are in disagreement on many other points with the  originators of this motion. With the same freedom  and independence that we say no to proposals of  similar origin but different content, we shall vote  for the present amendment.
(153) I believe that in so doing we can set our minds  at rest. This is a compromise between autonomy,  which is the special strength of associations  functioning ir any country, and the necessary support  of governments, It is a harmonious and balanced  solution, and it alone will guarantee the future pro-  gress of the Organization.
(154) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Span~  isk): I call upon the delegate of Belgium.  {155) Baron van der STRATEN WAILLET (Belgium)  (Translation from the French): Mr, President,’  ladies and gen'lemen, William the Silent, at a  critic) ~eriod of his life, said that it was not neces-  sary tu . Jpe in order to act, nor to succeed in order  to persevere, The advocates of the status quo in the  organization of the Executive Board have not so far  succeeded, but they are persevering and they keep  on hoping.
(156) I wish merely to exnlain why Belgium intends  to vote for the status quo, in the hope that our con-  viction will sweep the remairing waverers into our  camp. 1 shall not therefore repeat the arguments  already put ‘orward at some length by the Belgian  delegate in the Administrative Commission,
(157) The Belgian Government considers that it is  of prime importance for international understanding  and the consolidation of peace that Unesco should  preserve much greater independence vis-à-vis the  Member States than does any other international  organization, The tributes paid to Mr. Verniers,  who was for a long time a member of the Executive  Board, enable me to say that Belgium has special  experience of the Board and that her traditional  PLENARY     - 174 -  ETINGS  freedom of thought gives her a very special reason  for intervening in this debate,
(158) We believe that if a better world is to be  built it is of tremendous importance that there  should be constant and trustful co-operation bet-  ween governments and the men who devote their  lives to science, education and culture.
(159) Doubtless, as has been said here, the sup-  port of governments is indispensable in all three  fields. No one dreams of disputing this, but we  live in a time when, all over the world, free men  are striving, often at the risk of their lives, to  defend the independence of those moral forces  which are the true greatness of nations, against  the efforts of many governments to enslave the  mind. These men are trying to induce the peoples  to clasp hands across the frontiers, despite the  political differences which divide their governments,  At such a time it would be paradoxical if, at the  instance of those Member States which most loudly  proclaim their devotion to liberty, we were to  amend our Charter in a direction which, whatever  one may say, threatens to turn the Executive Board  into a battlefield where national doctrines will con-  front one another, instead of making it a sanctuary  where, sheltered from political passion and pressure,  scientists, educators and artists from all over the  world can collaborate, Not only would such a deci-  sion considerably strengthen the number of sceptics  and the arguments of our detractors, but it might  also destroy the faith and enthusiasm of Unesco's  most ardent defenders. In the hop: of improving  our material organization we are in danger of  stifling the very spirit which Unesco is intended  to defend,
(160) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Span-  ish): I call upon the delegate of Yugoslavia,
(161) Mr. VLAHOVIC (Yugoslavia) (Translation  from t.'e Spanish): Mr, President, ladies and  gentlem>n, 1 only wish in a few words to explain  the vote f the Yugoslav delegarion, for our dele-  gate has a‘ready explained our viewpoint in the  Administra ive Commission,
(162) We ag ‘ee with those delegations which con-  sider that it is not necessary to revise the Consti-  tution. We are led to take this view for the same  reasons as the other delegations who have expressed  themselves against the amendment and we have no  desire to repeat the same arguments.
(163) I should simply like to add two things. The  delegation of Yugoslavia has special reasons for  voting against, because in my country a constitu-  tional reform is in progress, as a result of which  the State will have an ever decreasing influence on  certain aspects of life and work. In this respec: a  beginning has been made with culture, science and  education.
(164) In these fields a wide degree of decentraliza-  tion is being effected, and we have at present no  central body in the Federation, no central ministry  for problems of education, science and culture.  Educational, scientific and cultural wo-k has become  completely self-governing, and there are special  organizations, associations and other bodies which  enjoy complete independence, being governed and   PLENARY  administered by themselves without any State  intervention.
(165) Moreover, two currents are to be observed  in the present-day life of States: one favours the  development of State power in political, cultural  and economic life; the other encourages the partici-  pation of the citizens, that is to say of society, in  political, cultural and economic life. The Yugoslav  delegation considers that Unesco should support the  latter current,
(168) For these reasons the Yugoslav delegation will  vote against the alteration of the Constitution, but it  will also respect the vote of the majority of the Ger-  eral Conference, and in the future, as in the past,  will give full support to Unesco to assist it in carry-  ing out its obligations.
(167) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Span-  ish): 1 call upon the delegate of Japan.
(168) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) (Translation from  the French): Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen,  since the sixth session of the General Conference the  Japanese delegation has always supported the idea of  altering the composition of the Executive Board, or  rather of altering the status of its members. It did  not take this view because it thought the Executive  Board inefiective or of inadequate composition, but  because it bilieved that more responsible decisions,  in greater conformity with the wishes of Member  States and of the General Conference, could be taken  by the Executive Board if its members could request  instructions from their governments on certain  matters.
(169) My Government not only supported the original  proposal of the Governments of Brazil, Australia,  the United States of America and the United Kingdom,  but also, in the desire to arrive at as perfect an  arrangement as possible, submitted, in accordance  with tbe terms of the Constitution, a motion to modify  the original amendment on two points.
(170) The first point made in our proposal was to in-  crease the number of members of the Executive  Board from 30 to 22, This, to our great satisfaction,  was accepted by the Administrative Commission, and  it is now embodied in the text before you,
(171) By adopting the proposed amendment we shall  have a Board of 22 members. This increase in the  size of the Board is justified ty the increase in the  total number of Member States. During the discus-  sion in the Administrative Commission opinions were  expressed in favour of raising the figure to 24. That,  however, was impossible because no formal motion  hed been tabled in conformity with the provisions of  the Constitution and Rules of Procedure, It will be  for the next session of the General Corference to  consider whether the :umber of members could be  further increased. But I am happy to note that at  least our proposal for 22 members has been included  in the present amendment,
(172) The second part of our proposal dealt with the  transitional provisions, which would allow the present  members of the Executive Board whose term has not  yet expired to retain their seats in certain conditions,  in the new capacity of government representatives,  thus preserving continuity in the Board. In the Ad-  ministrative Commission this motion, although it  - 175 -     MEETINGS I-11  received the assent of a fairly large majority, was  nevertheless not adopted because it was not approved  by a two-thirds majority. In this connexion I feel  bound to cast certain doubts on the procedure ad-  opted by the Commission. I consider that, to enable  the Commission to work out a better text, the choice  between two texts should be vcted by simple majo-  rity, the two-thirds majority rule being applied only  when the text as a whole is under consideration, I  say this because I feel that the procedure is worthy  of more detailed study for future cases when consti-  tutional amendments are presented.
(173) I am sorry that the second part of our propo-  sal was not accepted by the Administrative Com-  mission, but the Japanese delegation has no intention  of reverting to this question at a plenary meeting  and will vote for the text as it stands. Moreover,  the object of the Japanese proposal on the tr..nsi-  tional provisions will partly be met through the in-  terpretation given to paragraph 3 of Article V. As  the Rapporteur of the Administrative Commission  has mentioned, 1 hope that the interpretation of  this doubtful point will be considered first by the  Legal Committee and then by the Administrative  Commission, and possibly by the General Confer-  ence before the close of the present session,
(174) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Span-  ish): I call upon tiie delegate of Laos,
(175) Princess SOUVANNA PHOUMA (Laos): Mr.  President, ladies and gentlemen, ! am sure that  many of the delegations must share the distress I  feel myself. Now that we are about to decide bet-  ween two different schools of thought, we cannot but  regret that the large countries so categorically  ranged in opposite camps have not been able, during  the period of over two years since this question was  first broached, to find some common ground in order  to avoid the split with which we are laced today.
(176) Many small nations like the one I have tae  honour to represent are faced with a trial of con-  science and are, I! venture to say, hesitating about  the decision they are asked to take. They are well  aware of the risk they msy run when the members  of the Executive Board no longer represent all the  nations, but primarily, and in the end exclusively,  the countries of which they are the direct  representatives,
(177) A great scholar from a small country has  very little chance of ever being a member of the  Executive Board in its new form, which in practice  gives the Board a political complexion, whereas  under the procedure still in force he may be chosen  simply on account of his personal distinction.
(178) We would ask the large countries to spare us  the necessity of making a choice, to give come  thought to the way this painful problem affects us,  te take fresh counsel together and - since there is  really no desperate urgency - to agree, as à mag-  nanimous gesture, to defer the decision to the  General Conference two years hence. We would  ask them to submit to that Conference a text which  would be likely to receive a unanimous vote - for  such, surely, is their real duty - and you may par-  haps feel that a very small nation, whose soul is as  great as that of the cthers, might fittingly  submit such a proposal to the Conference.   a-11
(178) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Span-  ish): I call upon the delegate of Switzerland, on a  point of order.
(180) Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland) (Translation  from the French): On behalf of the Swiss delegation  I have the honour to second the motion submitted by  the representative of Laos.
(181) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Span-  ish): In accordance with the Rules of Prc:edure,  the motion submitted by the delegate of Laos, sec-  onded by the delegate of Switzerland, has priority.  Two speakers are permitted, one for and the other  against the motion. I call upon the delegate of the  United States of America to speak on the motion.
(182) Mr, KOTSCHNIG (United States of America):  My delegation is opposed to tlus motion of adjourn-  ment, We have every sympathy with the difficulties,  not only of small, but of big countries. We also  have our scruples of conscience, but we thought them  out, over the last four years, for this motion for a  change in the structure of the Executive Board was  first put forward in 1951. We have discussed it  already at two General Conferences and it took up a  great deal of time at both. We believe that every  argument for or against has been brouyht forward  and we have listened carefully both to the pros and  to the cons. We know what the elements in the situ-  ation are and we feel that the time of choice, the  time of decision, has come, It will not serve the  interests of this great Organizrtion if in Conference  after Conference we come back to the same issues.  The time to decide is now, and for this reason we  are opposed, and strongly opposed, to the motion by  the distinguished representative of Laos.
(183) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Span-  ish): 1 call on the delegate of Belgium.
(184) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) (Translation from  the French): Mr, President and fellow delegates,  you are aware of the attitude which our country has  adopted to the problem now under consideration. We  support the motion submitted here by the delegate of  Laos. We consider, indeed, that so vital a question,  which will have such far-reaching effects on the  structure of our Organization and may well jeopard-  ize its very principles, merits further reflection.
1 am convinced that an appeal for more time to con-  sider this problem will not fall on deaf zars.
(185) It was also said a few minutes ago by the dele-  gate of Lebanon that in the texts submitted to you  there were some provisions which threatened to  produce disputes in an Executive Board composed in  the manner suggested.  be wise to reflect still longer upon this amendment  and to postpone any amendinent to our Charter until  one of the next General Conferences, when the powers  which stood sponsor at the birth of this Organization  will have had more time to study the proposed inser-  tion. This all too short Conference has given  us insufficient opportunity for such reflection.
1 therefore confidently ask you to support the  PLENARY  I therefore think that it would    - 1786 -  MEETINGS  motion just submitted by the delegate of Laos.
(186) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Span-  ish): In accordance with the Rules of Procedure,  the debate on the motion by the delegate of Laos is  closed. If no delegates object, the vote on the  motion to adjourn the matter under discussion will  be taken by roll-call. I call upon the delegate of  Switzerland.
(187) Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland) (Translation  from the French): 1 am very sorry, Mr. President,  ladies and gentlemen, that I must suddenly appear  as a stickler for legality, but our Rules of Proce-  dure, in Rule 83, state that "normal voting shall  be by a show of hands or by standing".
(188) The word normal is interpreted by the Swiss  relegation, naturally enough I think, as follows:  that it rests with this .\ssembly, the sovereign  Plenary Assembly, to decide upon some other  method of voting, at its discretion. On behalf of  the Swiss delegation I have the honour to propose  that the vote on the motion now before you be taken  by secret ballot,
(189) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Span-  ish): The proposal submitted by the delegate of  Switzerland is before the Conference. The question  is: that the vote on the motion to adjourn the matter  under discussion be taken by secret ballot.
(190) For the information of delegates in regard to  the matter raised by the delegate of Switzerland, 1  will read the text of Rule 87.  "Secret ballot
1. The election of the Director-General and  members of the Executive Board shall be by secret  ballot, as set forth in Rules 95 and 100,
2. All other elections and decisions relating to  individuals shall be voted on by secret ballot when-  ever five or more members shall so request or if  the President so decides."
(181) The Chair rules that the motion by the dele-  gate of Laos now under discussior. does not fall  within the above provisions. If the Conference is  of a contrary opinion, I hope that it will express  its views. In view of the Rule which has just been  read out, I must insist on the procedure already  proposed, namely that voting shall be by roll-call.
(192) The vote was taken by roll-call.  Voted for: Belgium, Denmark, France, Haiti,  India, Laos, Lebanen, Liberia, Panama, Switzer-  land, Syria, Uruguay, Yugoslavia,  Voted against: Argentina, Australia, Austria,  Brazil, Burma (Union of), Cambodia, Canada,  Ceylon, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba,  Dominican Republic, Egypt, German Federal  Republic, Greece, Guatemala, Honduras,  Indonesia, Iraq, Israel, Italy, Japan, Jordan  (Hashemite Kingdom of), Korea, Libya, Nether-  lands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway,  Pakistan, Philippines, Salvador, Saudi-Arabia,  Spain, Sweden, Turkey, Union of South Africa,   PLENARY  United Kingdom, United States of Awzrica, Viet-Nam.  Abstentions: Monaco, Mexico, Thailand, Byelo-  russian Soviet Socialist Republic, Ukrainian Soviet  Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-  lics.  Absent: Afghanistan, Ecuador, Luxembourg,  Nepal, Peru, Venezuela.
(193) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Span-  ish): The result of the voting is as follows: 13 votes  in favour; 41 votes against; abstentions 6; absent
6. The motion is accordingly rejected and the  debate on the substantive motion will continue. 1  call upon the delegate of Egypt.
(194) Mr. AWAD (Egypt): I do not intend to take  up much of the Conference's time at this late hour  and I certainly shali not emulate the oratory and  eloquerce to which we have been exposed this after-  noon. I can only describe what 1 have witnessed  here today as a storm in a teacup. Never in the  history of Unesco as an organization has a matter  that has been thrashed out so thoroughly in the Com-  mission taken up so much time of the General Con-  ference, ! am very glad to speak as an old associate  of this Organization, as one who has always rep-  resented his country and his government year after  year, no matter how the government and its politics  have changed. Governments are not as stupid as  they have been represented this afternoon. I can  see amor.g my colleagues here delegates who have  been my colleagues for the last eight years, dele-  gates from Denmark, from Sweden, from Norway  and from Lebanon, From the very beginning they  have alweys been there, although their governments  have changed, their parties have changed. In Leb-  anon there has even been a revolution, yet the same  delegate enjoys the confidence of his government.  This is as it should be, The delegate of Lebanon  should always enjoy the confidence of his govern-  ment, no matter what government, what party, what  revolution may come, because he is a good Unesco  man. It is a good thing that a delegate should  always enjoy the confidence of his government.  What good is a member of the Executive Board, to  the Executive Board and to Unesco and to Lis gov-  ernment, if he has lost the confidence of his gov-  ernment?
(195) Honourable delegates, let us refrain from  representing governments as one camp and the  Executive Board as another camp. We are an  international and an intergovernmental organization.  If we enjoy the confidence of our government, it will  help us to promote the cause of Unesco, to collab-  orate more closely in its work and to induce our  governments to behave as Unesco wants them to  behave. We have all read in the report of the  Director-General a very pregnant sentence, that,  from now onwards, the future of Unesco will be  concerned with work done in the individual countries  and not carried out at Headquarters in Paris. This  passage has caught my attention and the admiration  of my colleagues and, if the future work of Unesco  lies in the individual countries, how could you pos-  sibly carry out such work if you are going to put the  government of those countries out of sympathy  with Unesco?  -177 -     MEETINGS I-11
(196) I'therefore hope that all delegates present  will vote for the amendment and, seeing that we  are in. uch an enormous majority, let us do so  unanimously. After all, what is proposed to us  is nothing very new: a simple formality to streng-  then the hands of the Executive Board and to make  it a more useful and practical and effective instru-  ment for promotin: “he work of Unesco.
(197) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Span-  ish): I call upon the delegate of the United Kingdom,
(198) Sir Kenneth GRUBB (United Kingdom) (Trans-  lation from the Spanish): Mr. President, ladies  and gentiemen, the United Kingdom has long been  in favour of the motion adopted by a large majority  in the Administrative Commission. I, like the  delegate of Egypt, appreciated the eloquence with  which the opposing viewpoint was presented. But  in all these brilliant speeches from the lips of  highly distinguished orators I have not heard a  single new argument which had not already been  conside.r at length in the Administrative  Commission.
(199) The United Kingdom delegation does not take  the view that the proposal of the Administrative  Commission will radically change the character of  the Organization. Or the contrary, it should  strengthen the Organization through the continuous  confidence and full support of the gcvernments, We  of the United Kingdom delegation do not anticipate  any revolutionary changes, but we do anticipate  that the General Conference will have at its dispo-  sal a more effective instrument with which to carry  out its plans.
(200) The United K.ngdom delegation believes that  in this way we shall i..rest the Organization with  added authority and inf... ‘nce. We do not believe  that the Executive Board will become a political  body, but that in the widest possible way, and »n  view of the high qualities of its present members,  it will be placed in a better position to carry out  the wishes of its superior body, the General  Conference.
(201) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Span-  ish): The debate is closed. Delegates are reminded  that by virtue of Rule 81, section (b), of the Rules  of Procedure, approval of the amendment requires  a two-thirds majority of the members present and  voting.
(202) If no delegation requests a vote on each  paragraph separately, the Chair proposes that the  vote be taken jointly on all the paragraphs of the  amendment, and that in view of the nature of the  subject, voting shall be by roll-call.
(203) The vote was taken by roll-call,  Voted for: Argentina, Australia, Austria,  Brazil, Burma (Union of), Cambodia, Canada,  Ceylon, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba,  Dominican Republic, Egypt, German Federal  Republic, Greece, Guatemala, Honduras, Indo-  nesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Italy, Japan, Jordan  (Hashemite Kingdom bf), Korea, Liberia, Libya,  Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua,   I-11 PLENARY  Norway, Pakistan, Philippines, Salvador, Saudi-  Arabia, Spain, Sweden, Syria, Thailand, Turkey,  Union of South Africa, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist  Republic, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic,  Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Kingdom,  United States of America, Viet-Nam.  Voted against: Belgium, Denmark, France,  Haiti, Lebanon, Panama, Switzerland, Uruguay,  Yugoslavia.  Abstentions: Irdia, Laos, Monaco.  Absent: Afghanistan, Ecuador, Luxembourg,  Nepal, Peru, Venezuela.
(204) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Span-  ish): The result of the vote is as follows: for the  amendment, 49; against 9; abstentions 3, absent
6. Having obtained the two-thirds majority required  by the Rules of Procedure of the Conference, the  amendinent submited by the Commission 1s  approved,
(205) In accordance with the motion just adopted,  it will be necessary to amend the Rules of Proce-  dure of the General Conference. Rule 95 now reads:
1. At each of its ordinary sessions, the General  Conference shali elect by secret ballot eleven mem-  bers of the Executive Board.
2, Only a delegate nominated by the government  of the State of which he is a nationa' for election to  the Executive Board may stand for election.  Rule 95, À - Transitional provision  The term of office of the members of the Executive  Board duriig the eighth session of the General Con-  ference shall end at the close of the eighth session  of the General Conference. At the eighth session of  the General Conference, twenty-two members shall  be elected to the Executive Board pursuant to the  provisions of Article V of the Constitution, of whom  one-half shall retire at the close of the mnth session  of the General Conference, the retiring members  being chosen by the drawing of lots, Thereafter,  eleven members shall be elected at each ordinary  session of the General Conference.  And Rule 83, Death or resignation of a member of  the Executive Board  In the event of the death or resignation of a mem-  ber of the Executive Board his replacement for the  remainder of his term shall be appointed by the  Executive Board on the nomination of the govern-  ment of the State the former member represented.  The government making the nomination and the  Executive Board shall have regard to the factors  set forth in Article V, A. 2 of the Constitution,  - 178 -     MEETINGS
(206) 1 call upon the delegate of Belgium.
(207) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) (Translation from  the French): In order to harmonize the texts before  you, in the French text of Article 98 the word  portion should be replaced by the werd durée, as it  was in the text of Article V, parag:a‘.h 4 of the  Constitution.
1208) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish)-  If there 15 no objection by the Conference, the  modification just proposed will be made.
(209) As a result of the amendments to th: Zon-  stitution which have just been approved, the Gen-  eral Conference must proceed at its present  session to elect the 22 members of the Executive  Board, each one of whom will represent the gov-  ernment of his State. The election will taxe place  in conformity with Acticle V of the Coastitutioa  and with Rules of Procedure Nos. 30, 95 and 96,
(210) I propose that the Nominations Commi*tee  meet for this purpose in the afternoon of 6 Decem-  ber and the morning of 7 December, and that the  election take place at the plenary meeting on  Tuesday afternoon, 7 December.
(211) It is therefore hoped that all delegations will  have received the necessary instructions from their  governments in time for these meetingr.. Nomina-  tions may be submitted at any time up to and inclu-  ding the meetings of the Nominations Committee  and the plenary meetings. However, for the con-  venience of delegations, the Secretariat will pub-  lish all nominations received in advance and will  have brief biographies of the candidates distributed.  It is hoped that all nominations will be submitted  not later than Saturday, 4 December.
(212) A few mminatiors, which appear in docu-  ment BC/NOM/20, have already been announced.  With few exceptions, however, these nominations  were submitted with a view to the election of mem-  bers of the Board appointed ia a personal capacity,  an election which would have taken place if the  amendments to the Constituaon had not been ad-  opted. Only a small number are also valid for  election as government representatives, Delega-  tions which have submitted nominations, without  indicating whether the candidate is proposed as a  government representative are therefcre asked to  confirm those nominations if they so desire.  Delegations wishing tc pui. forward candidates for  the Executive Board and to have their nominations  communicated in advance to the meeting of the  Nominations Committee, should send in the names  through the Secretariat.
(213) If there is no objection, the procedure is  approved.  The meeting rose at 7.15 p.m.