(103) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) observed that the  regulations in force authorized the Executive Board  to call in qualified experts to assist it in its work.  He therefore saw no need to call in new experts to  review the work of the others.
(104) Mr, BROWNELL (UnitedStates of America),  raising a point of order, said that, although the  resolution would authorize the Executive Board to  convene the Advisory Committee if and when neces-  sary, reference had been made in the discussion to  the fact that it would be unnecessary to convene it  before the ninth session of the General Conference.  If it was correct that the Committee would not be  convened before the ninth session, he could see no  point in the resolution. If the Committee was to  meet prior to the ninth session, its composition,  the time of its meeting and its terms of reference  could be left to the Executive Board. He did not  consider that such details could be determined by  the Programme Commission at the present stage.  BUDGET     COMMISION IV -35
(105) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-Genera!)  observed that the Advisory Committee was ar  organ of the General Conference, and at  the next session 1t would be well to  consider the expediency of retaining at as  such.
(106) In his opimion, the Executive Board should  be invited, when discussing the reorganization of  the Conference's work, to submit recommendations  to :*t2 Conference on the functions of the  Committee and the need for its continued  existence.
(107) The CHAIRMAN proposed that the discussion  be adjourned to allow an exact text to be prepared,  and submitted for approval by the Commission at ‘ts  next meeting.
(108) Agreed.  The meeting rose a. 1 p.m,  THIRTY-FIFTH MEETING
9 December 1951, at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman: Mr, BOURGEOIS (Switzerland)  RESOLUTIONS ON THE PROGRAMME AND THE BUDGET —  REPORT OF THE RAPPORTEUR (document 8C/PRG/30 (prov.))
(1) Mr, HOPE (Rapporteur) in presenting the docu-  ment, said that the major and second part of the report  consisted of an annex setting out the changes voted by  the Commission in respect of the Proposed Programme  and Budget for 1955-56. The first part contained his  own comments on the Commission's actions, under  three headings:
1. Irtroductory remarks.
2. A selection of the main events in the eigm  chapters of the 1955-56 programme, and in particular  the new items introduced into it.
3. Observations on methods of procedure, made  both inside and outside the Commission, which  he had thought proper to summarize and place  on record for the benefit of the Secretariat, the  Executive Board and future participants in the  Conference.
(2) A matter of some concern had been the fact that  the Commission had not started work until six days  after the opening of the Conference, and not until the  twelfth day had it been provided with a budget ceiling  on which to base its examination of the programme,
(3) The remodelled programme had been explained  by the Chairman of the retiring Executive Board and  debate on it had been postponed until completion of the  study of the programme. After careful examination,  and after hearing the report of the Advisory Committee,    which satisfied previous doubts on the problem of  general and special activities, the Commission had  unanimously approved the remodelled programme.
(4) The Technical Assistance programme had Leen  approved at an early stage of the Commission's work  and the Rapporteur wished to draw the attention of the  Director of Technical Assistance to some of the  excellent comments on his programme. In pointing  out an error in the second line (page 2, No. 3 of the  document) ~ the word "fortuitous" should be replaced  by the word "'fortunate' - he stressed the heavy work  involved in preparing and amending documents and  thanked the Secretariat for its great ard valuable  efforts in that respect. He hoped that the directors  of departments would find time to read the many  revealing and constructive comments made by  delegates on programme acuivities.
(5) A tribute was due to the working parties and to  the Chairmen and Rapporteurs for their excellent  reports, all of which had been adopted unanimously.  In that connexion, he had been struck by the zeal of  members of the Commission, who, aware of the  responsibility invested in them, had been determined  to investigate each programme thoroughly and had  been quick to oppose the delegation of their duties to  working parties or the limiting of discussion to items  on which there was disagreement. It was the more to  be regretted, therefore, that because of the super-  abundance of documents they had not had time to  carry out their intention.  - 505 -   IV-35 FROGRAMME AND
(6) The Rapporteur then commented briefly on the  different chapters of the programme.
(7) Education. He had been astonished to find, after  the long debates, decisions and resolu‘ions, that the  programme as set out in document 8C/5 remained  almost unchanged.
(8) Natural Sciences. "here had been two points of  serious controversy,
(9) First, the Campaign against Cancer. Now that  the project had been adopted, he hope’ that the heated  discussions would be forgotten and that delegates,  Member States and the Secrerariat would make a  success of it under its new title "Basic Rescarch  on Cellular Growths",
(10) Second, the determination to play a part in the  use of atomic energy for peace. The project was, he  considered, one which would attract wide attention  and which would be well publicized *hrough Unesco's  channels of information,
(11) Mention should also be made of the Arid Zone  and Humid Tropical Zone projects ind of the section  which referred to Oceanography.
(12) Social Sciences. Delegates had accepted the  Social Sciences programme more readily than  any other, thanks, perhaps, to its Director.  He had been impressed by the Director's  readiness to accept and act on suggestions, one  of which had meant the deletion of a major activity,  and another the speedy submission cf revised and  acceptable proposals.
(13) Of special significance was the resolution  on peaceful co-operation (document 8C/DR/115),  produced jointly by the delegates of the United  States of America ard Czechoslovakia and  adopted unanimously,
(14) Cultural Activities. Regretting that his appoint-  ment as Rapporteur had prevent. him from working  on cultural activities, as he had intended to do, atthe  Conference, he had, perhaps, placed extra emphasis  onthat section of his report. Many delegates, however,  had expressed great interest in the subjec..
(15) A new project attracting considerable attention  was the provision of books for new literates, and he  had been impressed by the constructive contributions  of delegates from a wide variety of -ountries. It had  been asked why the project had not been placed in the  chapter on Education; in his opiniun it was an activity  which transcended departmental barriers. He looked  forward with great interest to seeing what books were  produced.
(16) Other activities singled out for mention inc!nded  the protection of cultural property in the event of  armed conflict: international regulations for archaeo-  logical excavation; and an international competition  in architecture; a new venture: the publication of a  book commemorating the centenary in 1955 of the  Polish poet Mickiewicz; and the preparation of a  scientific and cultural history of mankind,
(17) Resolutions under the chapter had been too  numerous, and he fearedthat some worthy ones had  been overlooked.
(18) Mass Communication, The major development  was the reorganization recommended by the working  party and adopted by the Commission.
(19) A discussion had taken place on films, and  hasty action in rejecting a film-making project, for    BUDGET COMMISSION  which the Commission hud already appro.edtwo new  posts, had had to be corrected. The possibilities of  *elevision had also been discussed.
(20) The Rapporteur drew attentiontotwo amendments  to the document: first, at the end of the fourth  paragraph under Mass Communication (page 7. The  Director wished the following sentence to be inserted  "In the field of information all projects relating to  programme activities were adopted." Secondly, in  the French text only, the last part of paragraph 1  under Information should read: "... qui propose une  structure correspondJant aux deux fonctions principales  du Département de l‘: formation".
(21) The most important event in the chapter was the  adoption of a resolution (document 8C/DR/ 123) onthe  ase of the means of tnass communication, which was  destined, he believed, to make an impact on the  world. Of special interest was the emphasis on  implementation by Mernber States.
(22) Nothing of special importance was to be ncted  in respect of exchange of Persons and Documents  and Publications.
(23) General Resolutions. The most important item  under that chapter was the report of the Working  Party on Decentralization, which, while approving  the establishmentin India of an office for co-  operation with Unesco, and the extension and  stimulation of activities of National Commissions,  drew attention to the basic principle of universalityin  Unesco and gave a warning lest excessive decentralizæ  tion should lead to disintegration,
(24) Finally, the Commission had accepted the  recommendations of the Advisory Committce for  making the revised programme fit the budget ceiling  and had suggested that, if atany time the Secretariat  should be able to make further econcmies, the  Director-General should bear in mind the possibility  of using them for the following purposes:  (a) toincrease the subvention io the International  Council of Scientific Unions by a maximum of $20 000  per annum for 1955-56;  (b) to increasc the subvention to the International  Council for Philosophy and Humanistic Studies by a  maximum of $10, 000 per annum;  (c) to raise by $32, 650 the contribution to UNRWA  for Palestine refugees,
(25) The Rapporteur then read in full the last five  paragraphs on page 9 and the first paragraph on page
10 of the report, which referred to excessive docu-  mentation and made suggestions on the plan of work  for the General Conference,
(26) Finally, in accordance with Rule 63 of the Rules  of Procedure, the following paragraph should be  inserted before the final paragraph of the Introduction:  "Resolutions adopted by the General Conference  shall be communicated by the Director-General to the  Members of the Organization within thirty days after  the close of the session, "
(27) The document under discussion was provisional  and would be revised by the Secretariat before distri-  bution to Member States. It would be necessary for  the Commission to authorize the Director-Generalto  modify the numbering of the resolutions and to do  such editing as he saw fit.
(781 The CHAIRMAN paid tribute to the Rapporteur  for t/.e remarkable work he had performed, with the  - 506 —   PROGRAMME AND  help of Mr, Chevalier and all his colleagues.
(29) He suggested that the Commission confine its  discussion to the introduction to the draft report,  since the Annex was merely a list of decisions taken  at previous meetings. Any typographical errors  could, of course, be corrected by the Secretariat.
(30) Mr. JUNANXAR (India) rointed out that in the  reference to resolution 8C/DR/ 115 on page 6 India had  not beenincluded among the sponsoring countries men-  tioned, althoughthe original proposal had been made  by the Indian Government. A similar omission  occurred on page 5 in connexion withthe resolution on  atomic energy. He also asked that mention should be  made, inthe introductory section of the report of the  Brazilian proposal for an International Fund for Educa-  tion, Science and Culture (page 33, resolution 10.2).
(31) The RAPPORTEUR regrettedthe omissions  which had been unintentionak and saidthat the necessary  insertions would be made. He proposed to include a  reference tothe Brazilian resolution under chapter 7.
(32) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive  Board) objected to the wordi "7 of the second section  of page 2 of the report. While .he Board had consi-  dered at length the division of the programme into  general and special activities, it had concentrated  more on the major part of the programme, and it  would be unjust to say that it had concentrated on the  existing rather than the new,
(33) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  suggested changing the first sentence of section 2, on  page 2, to read: "Tiie report of the Executive Board  on the remodelling of the programme (document
8C/PRG/ 13) was based on the principle of aid to  Member States; it drew particular attention to the  distinction between 'general activities! and 'special  activities!, and to the advisability of adopting a few  major projects."
(34) The fourth paragraph under "Natural Sciences”,  on page 5, would be improved by the deletion of the  las( part of the sentence from "and it was understood"  onward. A decision to that effect had indeed been  taken, but it was not advisable to mention it in the  general introduction,
(35) Lastly, Mr. Makeu thought that the last sentence  of the fifth paragraph, under the same heading, on  page 5, should be reworded to read: "The Turkish  delegate was assured by the Director-General that  appropriate services to his country would be  continued either by the central services at the  Secretariat or under arrangements for aid to  National Commissions, "
(36) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) proposed  that some reference should be included in the  report to the speeches by non-governmental  organizations, in order to show that there had  not been only governmertal voices at the  Conference.
(37) With regard to the request of the Indian  delegate, in his opinion it would be unwise to  draw attention to the item in the introduction.  The action taken was not very encouraging and  might raise undue hopes.  BUDGET     COMMISSION IV-35
(38) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) did not agree that a  simple statement of fact would raise false hopes.
(39) Mr, HOPE (Rapporteur) asked if the delegates  of India and the United Kingdom would draft a  suitable sentence. With regard to the suggestion of  the United Kingdom delegate, he intended to insert it  not in the introduction but under Chapter 7 - General  Reso! tions.
(40) Mr. ZIMIN (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics)  asked for a reference to be made to the fact that  resolution DR/123 on the use of mass communication  to increase mutual confidence and undeistanding,  submitted jointly by eleven countries, was based on a  resolution from the Soviet Government, which had  been later amended by the delegates of the United  States and other countries.
(41) The RAPPORTEUR noted the request.
(42) The Introduction was adopted unanimously.  ANNEX — PART!
(43) Adopted.  ANNEX — PART IN  CHAPTER 1 — EDUCATION
(44) Adopted.  CHAPTER 2 — NATURAL SCIENCFS
(45) Mr. SANDOVAL VALLARTA (Mexico) noted  that on page 8 of the Annex, under resolution 2. 41,  Part B paragraph 158 was saidto be amended instead  of paragraph 156. It referred to the work of the  Science Co-operation Office for Latin America  (Montevideo). Paragraph 158 had not been amended.
(46) The CHAIRMAN said that the necessary  correction would be made.
(47) Chapter 2 was unanimously approved.  CHAPTER 3 — SOCIAL SCIENCES
(48) Unanimously approved without discussion.  CHAPTER 4 — CULTURAL ACTIVITIES
(49) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commis-  sion) pointed out two typographical errors.  Project 4,35 (A), in the French text, "la croisade  des musées" should read "Campagne en faveur des  musées", Project 4.42, "Study of cultural  relations” should read "Study of relations between  cultures”.
(50) Chapter 4 was unanimously approved.  - 507 -   IV-35 PROGRAMME AND  CHAPTER 5 — MASS COMMUNICATION
(51) Mr. SANDOVAL VALLARTA (Mexico), referring  to (167) resolution 5.52 (A) "Educational Film  Institute for Latin America", under Section II, on  page 23, said that, although the resolution was shown  as approved, the Mexican delegation had made a  reservation regarding the cost of the project,
(52) The CHAIRMAN said that note would be taken of  the reservation.
(53) Chapter 5 was approved,
(54) Chapters 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11 were unanimously  approved without discussion.
(55) Mr. BROWNELL (United States of America)  paid a warm tribute to the Rapporteur for his  excellent and valuable work, His report had not only  captured the essence of the delegates' aims and  wishes, in spite of the discussion which sometimes  obscured them, but had also enhanced the interest  of the discussions themselves.  Document 8C/DIV/155: Draft text submitted by the  Chairman of the Advisory Committee on Programme  and Budget.
(56) The CHAIRMAN announced that before the  Commission completed its agenda, it had still to  consider document 8C/DIV/155, which embocied  the proposals examined that morning. The last  paragraph was identical with the draft resolution  (document 8C/DR/127) submitted by the delegations  of Ceylon, India and Liberia.
(57) The first and second paragraphs were  unanimously approved,
(58) Mr. MENDIS (Ceylon), presenting the resolution  said that the figure of twenty-four had been proposed  as being one-third of the total membership of Unesco;  the suggestion concerning persons competent in «he  fields of education, science and culture had been  included at the request of his delegation; finally, it  had been thought advisable to include members of  countries not represented on the Executive Board.
(59) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) fully appreciated the  intentions of the authors of the proposal contained in  the last paragraph. He feared, however, that the  proposal might mean a repetition of the protracted  discussions which had already taken place on the  structure of the Executive Board, Moreover, there  was no reason to limit the number of fields in which  members of the Advisory Committee should be  expert. It would surely be desirable to include  specialists in finance or administration in the  Committee,
(60) In the circumstances, Mgr Maroun would vote  against the adoption of the text. Since the Executive  Board was to lay down the Advisory Committee's  terms of reference, there was no point in adding to  the end of the resolution details which might hamper  the Board. It would be better to retain only the first  sentence of the last paragraph.  BUDGET     COMMISSION
(61) Mr. MALAKUL (Thailand) proposed that the  word "arts" in the fourth line of the resolution should  be changed to "education".
(62) The CHAIRMAN noted the amendment.
(63) Mr. FORSYTH (New Zealand) said that, with an  Executive Board of 24 and an Advisory Committee of
22 members, the 26 remaining Memier States would  not be short of advice.
(64) Mr. MENDIS (Ceylon), replyirg to the delegate  of Lebanon, said that the wording of the resolution  was not intended to limit membership of the Advisory  Committee to persons competent in education, science  and culture and would not preclude, for example,  financial experts.
(65) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) could not support a  text which seemed to him to contradict the first two  paragraphs, already approved. Those paragraphs  gave the Executive Board very broad powers so far  as the competence and membership of the Advisory  Committee ware concerned. Moreover, the text  would lead to a legally impossible situation. The  Conference would simply nominate the States to be  represented on the Committee. The individual  members would then be chosen by the governments  concerned. Lastly, Mr. François thought that the  Advisory Committee should not have a membership of  more than 15 to 20. The figure proposed seemed to  him too high, in view of past experience of the  working of smaller committees.
(66) The CHAIRMAN mentioned that the two paragraphs  adopted referred to the date for convening t'.z Advisory  Committee and its terms of reference. So far, no  decision had been taken avout its membership.
(67) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) joined in the  opposition expressed by the delegate of France, not  only because of the effect of such an arrangement on  the Executive Board and the Conference, but for the  more important reason that advisory services should  come from tne National Commissions. The members  of the Board, although government representatives,  would be in close touch with National Commissions  and the Board would thus have access to the best  advice not only {rom 24 countries, but from all the  Member States of Unesco. The National Comraissions  which existed or were being created in every country,  provided an unrivalled source of advice on all matters  of education, science and culture, and he saw no  reason to set up new macninery, He hoped that the  resolution would be rejec:ed as unnecessary.
(68) Another objection was the financial aspect, which  had noi vet been considered, The members of the  Advisory Couurittee as at present constituted  received neither expenses nor per diem; but the  proposed new committee would have to be financed  by the 24 countries selected for membership, who  might be unwilling to support the cost of members of  the Advisory Committee in additicn to the upkeep of  National Commissions.
(69) The CHAIRMAN emphasized that the Committee  would not be permanent. All that was at 1ssue was  - 508 -   PROGRAMME AND  its constitution for the ninth session of the Conference  The General Conference could then take a decision on  the advisability of retaining the Committee.
(70) Mr. MASSAQ UOI (Liberia) was perplexed at  the attempts to minimize the effects of the resolution.  He could not see that the proposed membership was  too large, bearing in mind that in 1951, when it had  been fifteen, there had been only sixty Member  States, whereas at the present time there were 72,  including a whole new region of the world. As to the  character of the Committee, he insisted that it should  be determined by the Commission and not by the  Executive Board, which was now a government body.  With regard to financial considerations, nobody could  expect advice without payment, and as to who should  pay, whether it was the General Conference, the  Organization or Member States, it would still fall to  governments, since Unesco was an intergovernmental  body.
(71) In his opinion, the question rais#d by the United  Kingdom was immaterial to the problem before the  Commission, which was whether the persons  designated by Member States should be embassy or  legation officials or experts in special fields. He  would prefer the committee to be composed of  experts in education, science, culture or finance.
(72) The CHAIRMAN considered that the definition  set out in the last sentence of the final paragraph  was at variance with the provisions adopted under  paragraph 1. He thought, however, that it would be  helpful to specify the number of members and  possibly give some indication about the choice of  States, to be represented on the Committee.
(73) Mr, SEDES (France) was in entire agreement  with the Chairman. It was hardly possible to say, in  one place, "The Conference decides....", and, in  another, ".... the General Conference shall endea-  vour to include ....". In his opinion, the General  Conference could not at one and the same time take  decisions and give itself advice.
(74) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) said that there appeared  to be some misunderstanding over the draft before  the Commission, It had been intended to meet the  different views expressed: namely, that an opportunity  should be given to Member States not represented on  the Executive Board to be associated with the  preparation of the programme and budget; and that  the committee should consist of persons expert in  Unesco's various fields of work. It had never been  intended that the General Conference should elect  the experts; the meaning of the resolution was that  the Conference should designate the 24 countries and  that Member States should choose the experts, In  spite of all that had been said, he was not convinced  that the future of the Advisory Committee was affectec  by the change in the constitution of the Executive  Board, since, if it were argued that governmental  representation on the Board rendered the Advisory  Committee unnecessary, the same could be argued  for the Gem ral Conference itself. He could not see  any financial problem, since experts could be included  in delegations, whose expenses were always paid by  Member States.  BUDGE?"     COMMISSION IV-35
(75) In conclusion, he submitted the following  revised draft of the resolution: "’Decides that the  Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget shall  consist of 24 members. In electing the members of  the Committee, the General Conference shall  endeavour to include Member States not already  included in the Executive Board. Member States  elected to the committee shall nominate such members  on the committee as are competent in the various  fields of Unesco's activities,"
(76) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the members  of the Committee would be chosen from the delegations  of States designated by the Conference. In the text  under discussion, it seemed to be assumed that such  States might send to the General Conference delegates  with no special qualification in the fields of interest  to Unesco.
(77) Mr. FAWZI (Egypt) recalled that the Commission  had that morning been called upon to examine two  very simple proposals which had been approved. It  was true that the delegations included specialists in  various aspects ot the programme. But, if the  Committee were to meet before the Conference, each  delegation would probably choose only one represen-  tative, He though! that the Advisory Committee should  be regarded as ar expanded working party, set up to  examine the draft programme and budge: as a whole.  Moreover, it was unnecessary to specify that members  of the Committee should be "persons competent in  education, science and cultural activities..." as the  delegations themselves were undoubtedly corr posed of  people competent in the various fields of interest to  Unesco.
(78) Mr. SHARIF (Pakistan) saw a confusion in the  discussion. The Advisory Committee had been in  existence for two or three years ana its virtues and  defects were now known. The Commission having  decided to refer to the Executive Board the task of  investigating the exact nature of the Committee's  function in helping the General Conference, he doubted  the wisdom of limiting the discretion of the Executive  Board by suggestions of he kind put forward during  the meeting. Suggestions could only be made after a  report had been received from the Executive Board.  Similarly, the number of members would depend on  the exact nature of the Committee's duties. He  therefore proposed that the decision should be a  transitional measure and that the resolution should be  amended as follows:  "Decides that, as a transitional measure for the  Conference of 1956, the Advisory Committee on  Programme and Budget shall consist of 24 members",  with the addition of a reference to the inclusion of  States not represented on the Executive Board, if  desired. He would prefer to see 18 members instead  of 24, but would not press the point.
(79) The CHAIRMAN reminded the Commission that  the decision on the advisability of setting up an  Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget for  the ninth session of the General Conference had  already been taken. It had also been agreed that the  Executive Board might, if it saw fit, convene the  Advisory Committee before the session opened.  - 509 -   IV-35 PROGRAMME AND
(80) All that remained to be done was to settle how  many Member States should be represented on the  Committee and to make a recommendation regarding  the choice of States, Since the principle of geographical  distribution had always been observed in setting up  small committees, there was no nced to refer to it  in the text. Finally, the Chairman considered it  would be improper to cast any doubt onthe competence  of members of delegations.
(81) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) recalled that he had  already proposed an amendment to delete the last  sentence of the paragraph under discussion.
(82) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) proposed that the  following be substituted for the last paragraph:  "The General Conference  Decides  That the Advisory Committee on Programme and  Budget shall consist of 17 Member States, the  majority of which shall be chosen from among those  not represented on the Executive Board. Member  States are invited to designate, as their representa-  tives on this Committee, experts in education,  science and cultural activities,
(83) Mr. PRATT (Australia) asked whether the  Advisory Committee had expressed any opinion onthe  third paragraph in document 8C/DIV/ 155.
(84) The SECRETARY of the Advisory Committee on  Programme and Budget explained that the first  paragraph of the document in auestion had been  approved by tl ¢ Advisory Committee, as already  stated by the Chairman of that Committee,
(85) The CHAIRMAN called for a vote on the figure  proposed by the French delegate.
(86) It was decided, by 22 votes to 13, with 2  abstentions, that the Advisory Committee should  comprise representatives of 17 Member States.
(87) Mr. FAUBLAS (Haiti) saw a great difference  between "17 Member States" and "24 Members",
(88) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) stressed that the  Commission had just taken a decision on the figure  of 17 Member States. It could not, therefore,  designate the individual members of the Committee,  but it could invite the Member States which were  designated by the Conference to select, as their  representatives, people outstanding in fields of  interest to Unesco.
(89) Furthermore, as the General Conference would  have to designate the 17 Member States on the  recommendation of the Nominations Committee, the  proposal of the Indian delegation would require some  slight amendment. The Commission might ask the  Nominations Committee to give preference to  Member States not represented on the Executive  Board.
(90) Mr. BAUGNIE ? [lelgium) said that he had  abstained when the presious vote was taken because  he thought the discussion had been confused. There  was a question of terminology still outstanding. At    BUDGET COMMISSION  one time mention was made of "members" and at  another of "Member States”. The Rules of Procedure  relating to the membership of the Conference com-  mittees, however, spoke only of "members", and it  had always been understood that the Nominations  Committee first designated Member States, while the  delegations of those States thereafter selected persons  qualified for membership of one or other Committee,  He therefore thought there was a risk involved in  introducing the notion of "Member States".
(91) The CHAIRMAN fully corcurred in the opinion  of the Belgian delegate.
(92) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) proposed that the  decision just taken be phrased as follows:  "The General Conference decides that the Advisory  Committee on Programme and Budget shall be  composed of representatives of the following 17  Member States: .....", the list of Member States  designated by the Conference later being inserted.
(93) The Commission might also recommend that  members of the Advisory Committee be chosen, for  preference, from among Member States not  represented on the Executive Board and, if 1t saw fit,  might make special mention of the particular  qualifications required.
(94) The text proposed by Mr. Saba was approved.
(95) The CHAIRMAN then called for a vote on the  proposal of the Lebanese delegate for the deletion of  the last sentence of the third paragraph.
(96) The proposal was adopted by 27 votes to 8.
(97) Mr. ZAMORANO HERNANDEZ (Chile) agreed  with the Legal Adviser. He thought it out of place to  make special mention of the character and qualifica-  tions of those who were to be members of the Advisory  Committee. If members were to be representatives  of the Member States, it lay with those States to  select delegates capable of performing their duties  satisfactorily.
(98) Mr. FORSYTH (New Zealand) proposed that  either one or two members of the Advisory Committee  should also be members of the Executive Board, so  that the committee could have the benefit of the  Board's background knowledge and experience.
(99) Mr. PRATT (Australia) urged that, in consider-  ing the rôle of the Advisory Committee, the Executive  Board should bear in mind its importance to the work  of the Programme and Budget Commission, and take  into account not only its past work, but also the effect  which its work during the present session would have  on the Commission's task at the ninth General  Conference,
(100) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) was prepared to agree  that the Advisory Committee should be mainly com-  posed of delegates of Member States not represented  on the F' ecutive Board, It would be dangerous,  however, to attempt to have a totally different  membership in the two bodies, as that might give rise  to unfortunate clashes between them. It would be very  - 510 -   PROGRAMME AND  much better if there were friendly collaboration  between the Executive Board and the Advisory  Committee,
(101) The French delegation accordingly proposed  that the fcllowing sub-paragraph be added  "The Commission further recommends that the  majority of members of the Advisory Committee be  chosen from among Member States not represented  on the Executive Board."
(102) Mr, MENDIS (Ceylon) supported the proposal  of the delegate of New Zealand to include on the  committee at least two members of the Executive  Board,
(103) Mr. FORSYTH (New Zealand) proposed that  the number should be definitely two,
(104) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) saw no reason to  bind the Conference and the Executive Board in that  way and thought that the procedure he had suggested  would satisfy most Member States,
(105) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) felt that the Commis-  sion was going back on the decision it had taken  when it deleted the last part of the third paragraph.
(106) The CHAIRMAN replied that the new proposal  was concerned only with a recommendation of the  Commission,
(107) Mr. MATIC (Yugoslavia) thought that the  point called for very careful handling. He seconded  the proposal of the New Zealand delegate, as he  thought it would be helpfu! if the number of Member  States represented both on the Executive Board and  on the Advisory Committee were formally laid down,  He added that the Executive Board would later be  able to make a thorough examination of the programme  as a whole, and that Member States not represented  on the Board should also be given an opportunity of  studying the draft programme in detail,
(108) Mr. BROWNELL (United States of America)  supported the proposal of the French delegate,  which allowed for flexibility in determining  membership,
(109) Mr. AWAD (Egypt) urged acceptance of the  French proposal; there was danger in too much  precision,
(110) Mr. ZAMORANO HERNANDEZ (Chile) said  that, where numbers were concerned, he did not  favour flexibility. If it was thought that two members  of the Executive Board should also sit on the Advisory  Committee, it should be clearly stated.
(111) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) suggested fixing the  number of Executive Board members to take part in  the work of the Advisory Committee at a maximum  of 5,
(112) The proposal was seconded by Mr, PHOTIADES  (Greece).
(113) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) pointed out one  - 511 -  BUDGET     COMMISSION IV-35  detail in the discussion which was not very clear.  Was 1t desired to fix the number of members of the  Executive Board who would also belong to the Advisory  Committee, or the number of Member States to be  represented on both bodies ?
(114) Mr. FORSYTH (New Zealand) said that he  would not dispute the number, as long as there was a  small Executive Board representation for the reasons  he had already stated. He did not think there was  ary danger of undue influence on the committee,
(115) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive  Board) said that the Executive Board had never in its  history been represented on a committee. The rôle  of the Board was advisory and, while its members  coula attend a committee when necessary, or be  called on to give advice, they could never be elected  to membership.
(116) Mr. FORSYTH (New Zealand) withdrew his  proposal, which no longer had any point.
(117) The proposal of the French delegation was put  to the vote and adopted by 16 votes to 14, with 5  abstentions.
(118) The CHAIRMAN thanked his colleagues for the  confidence they had given him during the work of the  Commission. He was glad that a new system was to  be introduced at the next session, and thought it  should work smoothly and well to produce satisfactor  results.
(119) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) had been struck ts  the Rapporteur's comments on the draft resolutions  submitted during the session (document 8C/PRG/3)  (prov.), page 9, sixth paragraph). If the Director-  General were to have time to give his views on such pro-  posals, the draft programme would have to be forward-  ed to Member States at an earlier date, for example, at  the same time as to the Executive Board. As the  document was preparedfor the Executive Board, there  should be nodifficultyin carrying out that suggestion.
(120) Mr. Baugniet accordingly proposed the  following text:  "The General Conference requests the Director-  General to communicate to Member States the draft  programme and budget which he submits to the  Executive Board, in sufficient time to enable them to  transmit to the Board any comments they may find 1t  necessary to make on the draft, so that the Board  may make use of those comments in considering the  programme and the budget estimates."
(121) The CHAIRMAN thought it would be well to  state exactly when the preliminary draft programme  should be communicated to Member States. He also  thought that the proposal should be referred to the  Board, since it concerned the task it had been  commissioned to do with regard to the reorganization  of the Conference's work.
(122) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that there had  been pressure on the Secretariat for some time to  make the drafts available to Member States. There  was, however, a danger of causing confusion to both   IV-35 PROGRAMME AND  members of the Executive Board and Member States  by a multiplication of documents.
(123) Nevertheless, if Member States wished to have  the documents, he had no objection to sending them,  but they could not be in any language other than the  working languages of the Executive Board, The -ost  involved would not be very high.
(124) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) was entirely satisiied  with the Chairman's reply and pointed out that there  was no clause prohibiting Member States from making  suggestions tothe Director-General andthe Executive  Board, He proposed that the draft programme and  budget in its final form should be sent outto Member  States at least six months in advance.
(125) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that to lay  down in the regulations that documents must be sent  out at least six months in advance would force the  Executive Board to alter its rhythm of meetings, in  order that its work should be completed at a suffi-  ciently early date, and might well cause scheduling  difficulties. It would be better, he thought, to send  the first draft to Member States at least six months  before the opening of the Conference and the amended  version later; it would be unwise to insist on the  amended version being sent six months in advance.
(126) Dr. MUDALIAR (India) saidthat it was difficult  to deal with a resolution submittedat so late a stage  that there was not time to give it proper consideration.  He proposed that it should be treated as a recommen-  ation from a Member State and not as a formal  resolution,
(127) The CHAIRMAN asked whether Mr, Baugniet  would be agreeable to submitting his proposal  merely as a suggestion to the Director-General,  without having a vote on it.  BUDGET     COMMISSINN
(128) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) said he was quite  satisfied with the suggestions made by the Director-  General.
(129) the DIRECTOR-GENERAL expressed his  willingness to follow the wishes of the Conference.  He had no preference between a resolution and a  recommendation, but he must have a definite decision  from the Commission.
(130) The CHAIRMAN proposed that the Director-  General be merely asked to consider the  feasibility of communicating the draft programme  to Member States, as suggested by the Belgian  delegate,
(131) Approved.
(132) Mrs, PINTO DE VIDAL (Uruguay) said  that, now that the Commission's business was  finished, she wished, as a representative of  Uruguay, where the Conference was being held,  te congratulate the Chairman and the officers of  the Commission as a whole on the success of  their work. She endorsed the tribute paid by the  representative of the United States of America  to the work of the Rapporteur, who had had the  most thankless task of all.
(123) She also extended her ccngratulations to the  women who had taken part in the work of the  Programme and Budget Commission, and wished to  mention, in particular, Mrs. Myrdal and the  representative of the Philippines.
(134) The CHAIRMAN expressed his appreciation  of the remarks of the Uruguayan delegate.  The meeting rose at 7.15 p.m.  - 512 -