(151) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences), replying to the delegate of the United King-  dom, said that, with regard to paragraph 205, :he  contribution of the International Labour Organization  would be in the form of studies to complement Unesco's  work. There might possibly be some indirect finan-  cial support through the European Productivity Agency.  As far as paragraph 209 was concerned, there were  definite promises of co-operation from both ECAFE  and FAO, involving financial consequences for those  organizations, which would not, however, necessarily  reduce Unesco's contribution.
(152) Turning to paragraphs 216-222, a cembinedac-  tivity was envisaged, of which one part was to have a  permanent character, and another part to be more  temporary and flexible, The first concerned a docu-  mentation centre on problems of industrialization and  economic development, which would be set up so as to  be of permanent benefit to the host country, while the  second, the research centre proper, would have anu-  cleus staff acting as a task force at the disposal of  member governments, which need not involve comrnit-  ment for any long future. The whole project presup-  posed a host country sufficiently interested to contri-  bute to the costs, It was further proposed that the  Social Science Officer in Delhi should become an inte-  gral part of the research centre, if establishedinthat    PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  region. A detailed memorandum 0. structure and  staff, as well as needs for premises and equipment,  had been prepared and was being discussed with the  Indian Government.
(153) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) thanked the  Director of the Department of Social Sciences for her  statement, With regard to paragraph 216, he wondered  whether, since it was undertaking part of the project,  the Indian Government might not be persuaded to  undertake the whole,
(154) Mr. LEE (United States of America) said that  the National Commission of his country was strongly  in favour of the project contained in paragraphs 216-
222. It was sponsored by a National Commission and  would therefore have that Commission's active inter-  est, and it was well planned. He proposed that it be  given a higher priority,
(155) The proposal of the delegate of the United States  of America, seconded by the delegates of the German  Federal Republic, France and Mexico, was adopted by
5 votes to nil with 4 abstentions.  The meeting rose at 7.10 p.m.  TENTH MEETING
6 November 1954 at 10 a,m.  Chairman : Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Australia)  ITEM 7.2 OF THE AGENDA: PRELIMINARY CONSIDSRATION  OF THE DRAFT PROGRAMME AND BULGET FOR 1955-56,  BEFORE THE OPENING OF THE SESSION (continued)  CHAPTER 3: SOCIAL SCIENCES (continued)  Project 3.7: The social sclences and evaluation  techniques (paragraphs 226-246)
(1) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive  Board) said that the resolution contained in this part  was one of the additions made after the Executive  Board's discussion with the Director-General on the  first draft, The Board had felt that it was necessary  for the Secretariat to find out how new projects were  getting on, and this had led to the ides. of promoting  the techniques of evaluation.
(2) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences) informed the meeting about the experi-  ment in evaluation at present being carried out  in Montevideo. The new institute for research on  public opinion in Uruguay was collaborating, as  well as the French Public Opinion Research    Institute, in an attempt to measure the impact of  the Conference.
(3) A corrigendum made to paragraph 238 was submit-  ted in order to incorporate adjustments of the work  plans after a meeting in Geneva, in July, with techni-  cal assistance representatives and social scientists,  The Department had been asked to hold another small  meeting in Geneva in the summer of 1955, together  with TAB representatives, in order to check on the  progress made in regard to evaluation of technical as-  sistance, The Economic and Social Council (para-  graph 239) had set up a committee of eleven govern-  ment representatives to make a general evaluation of  technical assistance programmes, Unesco would  place at their disposal a consultant in scientific  evaluation techniques.
(4) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) asked for details of tne  budget implications of the Montevideo enquiry,
(5) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director,  Sciences) replied that $4,000,  of projects in the same chapter,  the required expenses.  Department of Social  saved in 1954 out  would cover  - 704 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND
(6) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom, questioned the  value of the activities described in paragraphs 243-246.
(7) M-s. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences) said that these activities were closely link-  ed with those of thz United Nations in this field. Some  countries (notably Ceylon) had already been request-  ing help in evaluation of development schemes.
(8) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) proposed that,  since the technique was a new one, it should be defer-  red until 1956. The budgetary provision for 1955  could be suppressed.  {8) Mr. SOEBROTO (Indonesia) and Mr, AVIDOR  (Israel) supported the motion. It was then put to the  vote and adopted by 10 in favour, none against and 1  abstention.  Summary Tables I and II (paragraphs 247-261)
(10) Mr. BOW (Canada) wished to raise the budgetary  implications cf the project on the Unesco Institute in  Cologne, on which he had commented earlier. He  suggested that the subvention allocated to this activity  should receive a low priority.  {11) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) supported the  proposal of the delegate of Canada.
(12) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) asked  the delegate of Canada whether he regarded the Co-  logne Institute for Social Sciences as less important  than the Hamburg and the Gauting Institutes which  were inclided in the Education chapter. If it was a  question of an abstract evaluation, that was one thing  If, however, the considerations were exclusively bud-  getary, tre Secretariat was prepared to put up a case  for the $32,000 appropriation requested. The abs-  tract eval 1ation, it was understood, would be made  by the 1956 and not by the present General Conference.
(13) Mr. BOW (Canada) had intended to refer only to  the budgetary implications of the project. His Gov-  ernment 's; attitude, however, was the same towards  other institutes as it was towards this one.
(14) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) thought the Insti-  tute in Germany had not had time to prove its worth.  A reduction in the subvention at this stage might cur-  tail its activity or force it to close down. It should  be given another two years.
(15) Mr. LEE (United States of America) agreed with  the delegate of Norway. He understood that the Se-  cretariat was to evaluate the project. This should  include a discussion of the relationship between the  Department of Social Sciences and the Institute, which  might be able to carry out some of the work done in  Unesco,
(16) Count Von HARDENBERG (German Federal  Republic) proposed that the suggestion by the de-  legate of the United States of America on achiev  ing a :loser relation between the Institute and  the Department of Social Sciences, should  figure in the Committee's report.    BUDGET VI-10
(17) A vote was taken on the proposal made by the de-  legate of Canada, and seconded by the delegate of the  United Kingdom, tc lower the priority of the Unesco  Institute for Social Sciences in Cologne. It was re-  jected oy 3 in favour, 6 against and 4 abstentions.  CHAPTER 6: EXCHANGE OF FERSONS SERVICE
(18) Mr. W. CARTER (Chief, xchange of Persons  Service) explained that the chap:er was divided into  three parts. I: clearing house and advisory services;  It: administration of Unesco fellowships; Ill: more  general promotional activity.
(19) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) expressed dissatisfaction  with the method of sending expert missions. The  "expert mission" had come into prominence in the last  few years with the launching of technical assistance  programmes, not always proving to be a successful  method of action. Even if familiar with the language  of the country he was assigned to, the expert did not  always penetrate its mentality, Or he might leave  behind him a good plan but no one qualified to put itin-  to practice.  M-. Avidor noticed and approved a ten-  dency to shift the stress towards the training of local  talent. That was more in line with Unesco 's task,al-  though the policy was a long-term one. Fellowships  should be awarded before an expert was invited, so  that, when the work of the expert ended, the studeats  could be made belter use of.
(20) The delegate of Israel accordingly proposed that  a high priority should be given to fellowships provided
(1) they had received some endowment; (2) the holders  were very carefully selected; (3) their work was well  planned and executed.
(21) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) thought that the  remarks of the delegate of Israel showed that fellow-  ship activities required careful planmng. The more  money there was, the more fellowships there would be.  He feared there was not enough money to go too far in  that direction.
(22) Mr. LEE (United States of America) agreed with  the delegate of tte United Kingdom. He asked what  was the basis used in crlculating the proposed budget  figures.
(23) Mr. W. CARTER (Chief, Exchange of Persons  Service) said there was a standard budget of $2,900  per fellowship, That included maintenance allowance,  two-way travel, a sum for travel within the various  countries, books or small equipment, miscellaneous  expenses and insurance, In many cases governments  agreed to pay part or the whole of a fellow's salary  while he was away. The figue was a flexible one,  allowing for differences in cost of travel.
(24) Mr. SOEBROTO (Indonesia, seconded the pro-  posal by the delegate of Israel that a high priority  should be given to fellowships.
(25) Mr, JUNANKAR (India) endorsed one aspect of  the statement by the delegate of Israel, that of an ex-  change of fellowships between the underdeveloped  countries themselves. That could form a second part  - 705 -   vi-10  of the fellowships programme. He also recommend-  ed that the Secretariat prepare a comprehensive,sys-  tematic and expanding programme of fellowships to  mcet the requirements of the various countries, tak-  ing into account and co-operating with national schemes  aiready in existence.
(26) Mr. Junankar wondered whether the fellowships  could not be attached to certainfixed basic institutions.  That would make it possible to check up on progress  more carefully.
(27) Mr. LEE (United States of America) agreed with  both the delegate of India and the delegate of the Uni-  ted Kingdom. He strongly endorsed ihe remarks by  Mr. Junankar on the possible uses of Unesco's facili  ties as a clearing house in this field. But the Orga-  nization should not get involved in a iarge programme  of administering fellowships. He suggested in the  interest of concentration that those at the higher level  should receive a lower priority.
(28) Mr. CABOUAT (France) stressed the impor-  tance which the French National Commission attached  to the Unesco system of fellowships. He agreed that  Unesco fellowships should be supplementary to nation-  al programmes and, in his view, the first to benefit  from the Unesco programme should be those coun-  tries least favourably placed as regards bilateral ex-  changes. Pellowships were most necessary i.. the  most neglected domains of science and technology .He  differed, however, from the delegate of Israel on the  question of experts, In his view, the two systems,  far fiom being opposed, were complementary, The  best fellowship holders who had come to France had  been recruited on the spot by experts from Unesco;  that was the best method of selection even if it oc-  casionally entailed administrative difficulties. He  further felt that there should be no special priorities  for the various items in the Exchange of Persons  chapter, and the priority for each should be decided  in the light of the priority given to the programine  activity with which it was connected,
(29) The CHAIRMAN thought it wiser to defer a de-  cision on Mr. Avidor's proposal until the details of  the chapter had been debated. When the relative  priority of the different chapters was being discussed,  it would be possible to see what part Exchange of Per-  sons should play in relation to the others.  (Su) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) reminded the Chairman  that his recommendation was not stated in terins of  the budget, but with a view to future planning.
(31) Mr. BOW (Canada) was torn between two points  of view: the programme was an important one andthe  country to which a fellow was sent benefited as much  as he himself. But, from the point of view of the  budget, his delegation's position had already been  made clear. d
(32) Mr. W. CARTER (Chief, Exchange of Persons  Service) explained, in answer to a remark by Mr.  COWELL(United Kingdom), that the Unesco programme  of fellowships did not overlap national programmes; it  had certain distinctive characteristics, These  were based on the following criteria:    ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET
1. The fellowships always related to a specific  Unesco project.
2. The number proposed was on « sufficient scale  to ensure an impact in one year. Only in new fields  or for specific cases were one Or two new fellowshing  proposed in a particular year.
3. They gave an opportunity to visit a variety of  countries where there was a specific activity goingon.  (e.g. fundamental education).
(33) Direct contact with Unesco and its work was a  part of the programme of every fellowship.
(34) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) pointed out that the cri-  teria outlir«d by Mr. Carter were different from those  on which his o'vn 1dea was based. He wished for a  programme linked in large measure with the effortsof  the countries concerned, within the framework of the  Exchange of Persons programme,
(35) The CHAIRMAN said that the proposal by the de-  legate of India was an important one. The meeting  should examine it again when the Executive Board's  document on remodelling the programme was being  discussed.  Project 6.1: Clearing house and advisory services  (paragraphs 9-26)
(36) Mr. W. CARTER (Chief, Exchange of Persons  Service), on paragraph 17, referred to Mrs. Myrdal's  earlier remarks on the plans of her Department for
1956. The work described in this paragraph was the  direct result of the advice of a social science  consultant.
(37) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) supported this  section. He paid tribute to the value of the publica-  tion Study Abroad. Incidentally, the work illustrated  the complexity of the sphere Unesco was entering in  attempting to give scholarships. Mr. Cowell won-  dered if the material contained in Teaching Abroad  might not be more effectively disseminated by the  International Association of Universities,
(38) Mr, W. CARTER (Chief, Exchange of Persons  Service) said that the publication was distributed axa  supplement to the International Universities Bulletir,  If it were not printed under Unesco's budget, the ex-  pense of obtaining extra copies for universities that  did not take the bulletin would come to aimost the  same as that incurred under the existing arrangement
(38) Mr. CABOUAT (France) produced a new s'igges-  ion regarding paragraph 21: the Secretariat might!  perhaps get in touch with the Inter national Union of OF  ficial Travel Organizations and secure the insertion  of items about Travel Abroad in that body's journal.
(40) Mr. W. CARTER (Chief, Exchange of Persons  Service) said there was a possibility of merging the  two publications. Its technical aspects were  being examined. This would spread interest in  Unesco very widely and would have an important  effect on the travel agencies. It might require  a slight increase in the budget, but the impact  would be well worth it, as a totally new  market would be opened up.  - 706 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  Project 6.2: Fellowship administration (paragraphs
17-87) °  {41) Mr. W. CARTER (Chief, Exchange of Persons  Service), in answer to earlier remarxs on this pro-  ject by the delegate of the United States of America,  said that higher budgetary level fellowships were tied  up with technical aid projects in other parts of the  programme.
(42) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) thought that  separate itemizing might be helpfu! in this project.
(43) Mr. LEE (United States of America) wondered  if it would not have been better for the figures in this  programme to be shown under the different projects  to which the fellowships were related.
(44) He referred to the remark he had made during  the general discussion of the chapter, with reference  to paragraphs 37 and 38, 44-46, 49-51, 55-63, and  proposed that fellowships listed under the higher bud-  getary level be awarded a lower priority. He asked  vhat the figures in paragraph 67 applied to.
(45) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) opposed the suggestion by  the delegate of the United States of America, All  fellowships under the higher budgetary level should he  considered as having the same relative importance as  those of the normal budget.
(46) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) felt  apprehensive about the repercussions of the United  States delegate's proposal, Fellowships were part  and parcel of the projects of the departments. None  of the projects with which the study grants mantioned  by the United States delegate were connected had had  its priority reduced; in some cases it had even been  raised, Such a budgetary cut, therefore, could mean  only one thing, namely, that the Committee disap-  proved of the whole system of fellowships, and this he  refused to believe.
(47) Mr. CABOUAT (France) thought that the fellow-  ships connected with programme projects should be  shown in the relevant chapters with an indication of  the proposed expenditure.
(48) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General), in  reply, said that cross-references could be inserted  in the relevant chapters of the programmes but that a  budgetary transfer could noi be considered, {~~ the  administrative responsibility rested essentially with  the Exchange of Persons Service.
(49) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) asked on what criterion  the study grants mentioned in paragraph 52 were  awarded,
(50) Mr. W. CARTER (Chief, Exchange of Persons  Service) explained that this activity was not in the  category of specific technical aid. It was ofabroader  promotional nature, The ten fellowships offered for  the last two-year period had aroused great interest.  Thirty-seven out of the sixty Member States to which  a circular had been sent had already replied.
(51) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) shared the view    vi-10  of the United States delegate over this question, He  was not impressed by the number of Member States  which had accepted the offer. He was in fact surpris-  ed that they had not all done so. He did not think the  advantage to Unesco of the scheme was clear, and he  proposed that it be awarded a low priority.
(52) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) pointed out that the activity  described in paragraph 52 was not under the higher  budgetary level.
(53) Mr. W. CARTER (Chief, Exchange of Persons  Service) said that the fellowships for artists and wri-  ters were very serious propositions, contrary to what  the delegate of the United Kingdom inferred. National  Commissions and governments had accepted the idea  and sent highly qualified candidates. There had been  a tendency to neglect artists and writers in favour of  scientific and technical workers. This was a small  step in the other direction.
(54) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the proposal by  the delegate of the United States of America that the  fellowships referred to in paragraphs 37 and 38, 44-486,
49-51 and 55-63 should be awarded a lower priority,  had not been seconded and he called for support for it,
(55) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) seconded that  proposal.
(56) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) disagreed with what the  United Kingdom delegate had said about paragraph 52,  The Chief of the Exchange of Persons Service had  stressed the importance of maintaining these particu-  lar fellowships and the delegation of Mexico supported  that view, at any rate until the Universal Copyright  Convention had been ratified.
(57) Mr. BOWCanada)deplored the fact that the question  of higher budgetary level had come up again. Had the  meeting not agreed that decisions were not to be tak-  en on that basis? He suggested that the project be tak-  en section by section, with a reference to the projects  with which tas different sections were connected.
(59) The CHAIRMAN asked the meeting to defer ac-  cordingly the discussion of paragraph 52 and to take  up Section A, paragraphs 32-38.
(60) Mr. CABOUAT (France) asked the Committee to  be:r in mind the priorities given to the projects with  which the fellowships were connected.
(61) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) said  that none of the projects to which the fellowships men-  tioned by the United States delegate related had hadits  priority reduced.  Section B, paragraphs 39-43
(62) No comments.  Section C
(63) Approved without comment.  - 707 -   VI-10 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON  Section D
(64) The proposal made earlier by the delegate of the  United States of America on paragraph 52 was  seconded by the delegare of Norway.
(65) Mr. LEE (United States of America) pointed out  that the fellowships for artists and writers seemed to  be exceptions to the standard rates, The grants of  $3,500 were higher than the average.
(66) The CHAIRMAN : -marked that also they did not  relate to any specific project.
(67) Mr. CABOUAT (France) entirely agreed withthe  view previously expressed by the delegate of Mexico:  it was a good thing for Unesco to encourage interna-  tional exchanges of artists and writers.
(66) A vote was taken on the question of reducing the  priority of the fellowships for artists and writers  (paragraph 52). The rnotion was rejected by 3 in  favour, 7 against and 1 abstention.  Section E, paragraphs 62 and 63
(69) Mr. LEE (United States of America) thought the  sum allocated to fellowships in mass communication  was too high, and proposed a low priority for this item.
(70) Mr. CABOUAT (France) formally moved that  the discussion of the fellowships attaching to mass  communication be held over until the Committee came  to examine that Department's programme and budget.
(71) Agreed.  Section F, paragraphs 54-67
(72) On paragraph 67, Mr. W. CARTER (Chief, Ex-  change of Persons Service) explained, at the request  of the delegate of the United States of America, that  three types of fellowships were administered by the  Exchange of Persons Service: normal programme;  technical assistance; and fellowships sponsored by  Unesco (about 20 to 25 a year since 1948), apart from  those administered on behalf of governments for their  own nationals. Five thousand dollars was a rough  estimate of the possible budget under this heading. It  would not cover the costs of the staff concerned; it  was intended to meet the additional expenses incurred  when there was a large request for administration.  Project 6.3: Promotion of Exchange of Persons for  international understanding  Project 6.31: General promotion {paragraphs 69-76)
(73) Mr. W.CARTER(Chief, Exchange of Persons Ser -  vice) explained that the meetings of experts referred  to in these paragraphs, particularly that held in Bang-  kok, had had a considerable impact on the develop-  ment of the programme of Unesco in the regioncon-  cerned. The solution of many problems had been eas-  ier to find through direct contacts on the spot.  Project 6.32: Exchange of workers (paragraphs 77-91)
(74) The CHAIRMAN referred the meeting to    PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  document 8C/PRG/20 giving comments by the Director  of the International Labour Organization onthis project,
(75) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) considered that  the leading part in promoting these activities should  be taken oy the International Labour Organization. He  did not find quite satisfactory the reference lo that Or-  ganization in paragraph 90, where it was stated that  its'to-operation would be sought".
(76) Mr, W. CARTER (Chief, Exchange of Persons  Service) said that co-operation with the International  Labour Organization was a constant factor of the pro-  gramme ever since it had first been mooted. That  Organization, however, considered that study tours  concerned with adult education were a function of  Unesco rather than one of its own.
(77) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) was grateful for  Mr. Carter's partial reassurance. But did the ILO  supply any cash?
(78) Mr. W. CARTER (Chief, Exchange of Persons  Service) said that in spite of their efforts they had not  secured much help on the budget side. This would no  doubt eventually be forthcoming if delegations at meet-  ings of the ILO shared the opinion expressed by Mr,  Cowell,
(79) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) agreed  with the delegate of the United Kingdom. He hadhim-  self taken part in the discussions with the Specialized  Agencies at Geneva, The Secretariat would redouble  its efforts to secure the International Labour Orga-  nization's participation in the project financially as  well as otherwise,
(80) There being no other speakers, project 6,32  (paragraphs 77-91) was approved.  Project 6,33: Exchange of young people (paragrap*s
(81) Mr. W. CARTER (Chief, Exchange of Persons  Service) said that the criteria for the award of grants  under this project had been made more strict, Youth  organizations were asked to finance an additional per-  iod of : to 5 months for studies for any candidate they  proposed, to be devoted to youth work. That might  reduce expense, as far fewer organizations would  qualify. ‘  Project 6.34: Exchange of teachers (paragraphs 98-
(82) Mr. Carter said that the publication Teaching  Abroad was becoming increasingly useful in this con-  nexion (paragraph 103).
(83) Paragraphs 104 and 105, grants for regional cul-  tural studies, were another activity which ventured  a little way out of the usual technical field.
(84) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) remarked that  young people did not know enough about their own cul-  ture to profit from the study of cultures abroad. He  hoped this activity was not included at the  expense of the exchange of young scientists.  - 708 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON
(85) Mr. W.CARTER(Chief, Exchange of Persons Ser-  vice) did not recall an actual project on the exchange  of young scientists. He felt however that scientists  had a great many opportunities of travel, particularly  in the field of research. The university grants  for the regional cultural studies project were one  way of broadening the interests of young teachers  and advanced s‘udents.  PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  Summary Tables I and II (paragraphs 107-111)
(86) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) welcomed the  strengthening of the staff. It would make it easier  to maintain the essential contact with National  Commissions.  The meeting rose at 12,45 p.m.  ELEVENTH MEETING
8 November 1954 at 10 a.m.  Chairman : Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Australia)  ITEM 7.2 OF THE AGENDA: PRELIMINARY CONSIDERATION  OF THE DRAFT PROGRAMME AND BUDGET FOR 1955-36  BEFORE THE OPENING OF THE SESSION (continued)  DEPARTMENT OF MASS COMMUNICATION
(1) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Communi-  cation) submitted the proposed programme for his  Department. To fecrestall any potential ambiguity  arising from the dual or even tripartite character of  the activities of the Department of Mass Communica-  tion, the Director-General had endeavoured to draw  a clear distinction between its different functions.  First, there was publicity, designed to reach the ‘er  lightened" sectors and the mastes. Its tasks were  (a) to explain why Unesco existed, what it was, what  it did and what it would do in future; (b) to foster in-  ternational understanding by devoting a considerable  part of its activities to propaganda for the United Na-  tions and the Specialized Agencies and ensuring that  the press, radio and visual means of communication  gave support to the constitutional aims of Unesco,  namely human rights, fundamental education, the  struggle against illiteracy and against racial discri-  mination, and so forth. That work demanded close  co-operation with the other Unesco departments and  could be developed effectively only with the help of  Member States and their National Commissions. Pro-  jects under this heading had been placed under general  activities, Section I,items 5.1 and 5.2, "A. Public  information and the promotion of international un-  derstanding’. For the first time, large sums had  been provided to help certain Member States and  their National Commissions translate and adapt Unes-  co publications and documents, organize meetings de-  signed to further international understanding, etc.  That propaganda work, which everyone agread was  needed, absorbed by itself 53% of the staff and 50% of  the proposed budget for the Department, not includ-  ing the sums set aside for the latter's direction. The  service was one which had to be made available to the  entire Organization, as well as to the United Nations  and Specialized Agencies, It was a functionto which    the Director-General attached the greatest importance  and which was not peculiar to Unesco, since all the  other Specialized Agencies of th: United Nations de-  voted large sums to their publicity work - although  less than Unesco in proportion to their budgets,
(2) Mr. Desja.dins went on to the programme activi-  ties proper which Unesco was constitutionally obliged  to undertake, These were found under Section I, B,  Assistance in development of mass communication,  reduction of obstacles to the free flow of information  (by causing Member States to adhere to international  conventions and administrative arrangements), mass  communication clearing house, exchange and stimula-  tion of educational, scientific and cultural programmes.  Some of those activities would also be found uader  Section I, items 5.3 and 5.4. On the other hand,  projects under item 5.5 (organization of pilot projects  and research in the new techniques to facilitate devel  opment of mass communication in Member States and  enable full use to be made of them for educational,  scientific and cultural aims) had been placed, together  with technical aid to Member States in the development  of their mass communication services (item 5.6) un-  der Section II, Special Activities, consisting, on the  one hand, of pilot projects (item 5.5) and, on te other  hand, of projects for technical aid (item 5.6), This  part of the programme absorbed about 28% of the st .’f  of the Department, and 28% of the total appropriations  requested, plus 8% for technical assistance missions  tc Member States. It had to be emphasized that 70%  of the proposed budget for these forms of assistance  towards developing means oi communication concern  ed almost exclusively the underdeveloped regions,  while the remaining 30% was devoted to activities of  interest to all Member States. In addition, all the  projects envisaged under items 5.3, 5.4, 5.5 and5.6  closely corresponded to requests which Unesco had  been receiving for several years past from the Eco-  nomic and Social Council (especially the seventeenth  session, held in April last) and from the General As-  sembly of the United Nations. Mr. Desjardins stated  that some of the projects were carried out jointly, or  in close co-operation,with the Departments of Education,  - 709 -