ADMINISTRATIVE  be given every opportunity to participate actively in  Unesco's programme, To enable China to do so,  however, the Conference must decide either to  reduce that country's contribution temporarily or  to make full use of the clause in paragraph 8 (c} of  Article IV of the Constitut on. Mr. Kotschnig very  much hoped that an overwkelming majority would  show itself in favour of the second solution. The  United States delegation accordingly seconded the  motion of the delegation of the Philippines.    COMMISSION V-13
(7) The motion of the delegation of the Philippines  was adopted by 28 votes to 12, with 2 abstentions,
(8) The CHAIRMAN tated that the report of the  Contributions Commitee on the voting rights of  Poland, Czechoslovakia and Hungary would be  included in the agenda for the following morning.  The meeting rose at 3,30 p.m.  THIRTEENTH MEETING
23 Noven ber 1954 atl0.15 a.m.  Chairman : Mr. BEEBY (New Zealand)  ITEM 9.4.4 OF REVISED AGENDA : CONTRIBUTIONS SCALE,  CURRENCY AND COLLECTION OF CONTRIBUTIONS OF  MEMBER STATES (documents 8C/ADM/30 A: d. 1 and 8C/ADM/32)  (continued)
(1) Mr. STERNBERGER (Chairman cf the Committee  on Contributions), introducing the addendum, said  that his Committee had been called upon to decide  how the arrears of three countries (Foland, Hungary  and Czechoslovakia), which had withdrawn from  Unasco and had recently declared their readiness to  co-operate once more with it, could best be paid.
(2) In the initial stages of its deliberations, the  Committee had been faced with letters from those  three countries claiming more or less full cancel-  lation of their arrears, The Committee had declined  to accept that, but all concerned had been prepared  for further negotiation. The resolutions now before  the Commission represented the fruit of ten days"  arduous deiiberation.
(3) Although negotiations necessarily had to cover  a wide field, the Committee had not been empowered  to decide that the three countries should be granted  the right to vote, Thence the onus of advising the  General Conference to adopt the lasi paragraph of  each resolution (on that point) lay on the  Administrative Commission iiself.
(4) It had been agreed in the Committee that the  three countries should pay by instalinents over  varying periods.
(5) The three countries had clairned that they had  not been members of Unesco during 1953, That was  à legal point which the Committee had not felt  competent to decide. A:cordingly, in the case of  two of those countries, it had merely considered the  question of contributions due for the years before
1953, so that the resolitions relative to Poland and  Czechoslovakia coverec the period up to 1952  inclusive. Hungary, however, had expressed  willingness to pay arrears incurred up to and  including 1953,
(6) All three countries had wished to be allowed to  make their payments in their national currencies  (see 1 (ii) in each resolution).
(7) An important point was that in I (121) of the  resolutions, the Director-General was asked to  report on the implementation thereof.
(8) Dr. MUDALIAR (India) expressed his appreciation  of the work done by the Committee and, seconded by  Mr, SOLDATOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics),  moved adoption of the resolution relative to  Czechoslovakia, including the last paragraph,  recommendiag that Czechoslovak:a should enjoy full  voting rights at the eighth session of the General  Conference.
(9) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL suggested that it  would be wise to amend the first line of i (iii) in each  resolution to read: "instructs the Director-General  to report to each ordinary session of the General  Conference .,."
(10) Dr. MUDALIAR (India) and Mr. SOLDATOV  (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics) accepted the  amendment,
(11) In reply to an enquiry by "Mr, ARTHUR  (Umted Kingdom), Mr, VANECEK (Czechoslovakia)  said that the Government of Czechoslovakia had  authorized his delegation to accept the settlement,
(12) Mr. SZABO (Hungary) stated that, in the course  of the discussions on the subject, his delegation had  expressed its willingness to pay ts arrears as  assessed,
(13) Mr. MICHALOWSKI (Poland) said that his  Government found the resolution relative to Poland  acceptable, His intention was to announce that fact  in the Plenary Confererce and to write to the  President of the Conference to that effect.  - 567 -   V-13 ADMINISTRATIVE
(14) Mr, KOTSCHNIG (United States o! America)  paid a warm tribute to the Committee on Contri-  butions. He fully shared the general desire to  regularize the position of the three countries. But  the results of the Committee's negotiat ons had  been less satisfactory than he had hoped.
(15) The period allowed for payment of the arrears  was excessive - twice as long, in fact, as the period  over which the debts had been incurred.
(16) In addition, too high a proportion of the  arrears was to be paid in national currencies,  Either much of the currencies so acqur-ed by  Unesco would prove to be unusable, or Unesco, in  order to use the money, would be obliged to engage  in programmes deviating from those proposed by  the Director-General,
(17) The International Labour Organization (an  organization with long experience in such matters),  when faced with a similar problem in connexion  with one of the three countries in question, had  rejected the solution proposed.
(18) There weie, however, certain redeeming  features about the proposed settlement, especially  the provision that the Director-General should  report to each session of the General Conference  on the progress made and on the extent to which he  had been able to use the national currencies in  question.
(19) For those reasons the United States delegaticn,  not wishing to obstruct a settlement, but at the  sme time not being able to give its whole-hearte |  approval, would abstain in any vote on the draft  resolutions,
(20; "Ir, BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) was  gratified at the agreement reached between the  Contributions Committee «nd the Hungarian, Polish  and Czechoslovak delegations,
(21) He reminded the Commission that Unesco had  from the very beginning shown a special :nterest in  those three countries, and had set up a Committee  for Cultural Reconstruction, of which he had been  hairman.
(22) He was glad that purely practical considera-  tions had yielded to others of a loftier chararter ard  thus opened the way for genuine collaboration,
(23) He was convinced that the small material  drawbacks that might result were neghgible by  cornparison with the great advantage of a friendly  settlement accepted by both sides,
(21) Mr, HAGUIWARA (Jupan) agreed with. the  Brazilian delegate's statement, and likewise  expressed his pleasure at the settlement cf that  delicate question,
(25) The Japanese delegate then asked to have two  noints explained to him:
(1) Did not the Financial Regulations provide that  arrears paid by a Member State should be  distributed among the other Member Sta es”
(20) If such arrears were to be incorpo “ated in the
1455-56 budget, should not a resolution be passed  to that eff2ct?
(27) (2) Vas he correct in thinking that, according  to the three resolutions, the three Memner States  regained their rights because their orrcars were no  longer regarded as due under the terms of Article IV  - 568 -     COMMISSION  of the Constitution, paragraph 8b, and not because  it was recognized that "failure to pay" was "due to  conditions beyond the control" of the Member States  in question, under the terms of paragraph &c of the  same Article,
(28) Replying to the first question raised by the  Japanese delegate, Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) did  not think that a resolution could alter the application  of payments made by Member States,
(29) With regard to .he second question, Mr, Saba  explained that, once Member States had been given  time to pay, they could no longer be required to  settle their debts instantly.
(30) Therefore, in assessing arrears, so as to  determine whether or not a Member State had the  right to vote, the only amounts which counted were  those which were immediately payable, In the  present instance, paragraph 8 b was the operative  clause.
(31) Paragraph 8c applied only when the delay 1  payment could be attributed to exceptional  circumstances over which the Member State in  question had no control,
(32) Mr, HAGUIWARA (Japan) said that he was  satisfied with the latter explanation, and then put  his first question in another form: would the  contributions of the three Member States (60% in  national currency and 40% in foreign currencies  stipulated by the General Conference) be incorporated  in the 1955-56 budget or not?
(33) Mi, HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) explained  that the amous.:s paid in by the States concerned in  settlement of their arrears would become budget  surpluses for the years in which those arrears were  incurred, Thus the oldest debt, incurred by Poland,  dated from 1947; the amounts paid in by that country  would constitute a budget surplus for 1947 and would  be available for distribution to Member States at the  ninth sessior. Payments made for 1355-56 would of  course be used to finance the budget for those years,  like any other contribution,
(34) The national curreacies acquired would be used,  as far as possible, for the normal expenditure  provided for in the budget for 1255-56, Otherwise  an attempt would be made to exchange it for other  currencies, so that the equivalent would be  available for distribution to Member States in the  normal wy.
(35) Mr, POHL (Union of South Africa) said that,  in all Specialized Agencies where members were in  arrears, his Government nad taken the line that such  members should be penalized by loss of the vote.  But in the cases under consideration, there were  certain special features,
(36) He wished to pay tribute to the Committee on  Contributions, and alsc to the delegations of the three  countries. The resolutions proposed went a long way  towards a satisfactory solution of the problem, At  the same time, 1t would be most dangerous for Unesco  if a precedent were to bu created. Therefore, although  recogruzing that a genuine effort had been made tc  seek a settlement, Fis deleg ition would abstain from  voting on the resolutions,   ADMINISTRATIVE
(37) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) pointed out that no  account had been taken of the disadvantages resulting  for certain Member States who had paid their  contributions regularly from the beginmng,
(38) He had listened with interest to the statements  of the Brazilian delegate, but could not refrain  frorn mentioning that Greece had suffered  catastrophes of which everyone was aware and  which would give it grounds for requesting a  similar arrangement,
(39) The Greek delegation would accordingly  abstain from voting, reserving its position until  conversations had taken place on the subject between  his Government and Unesco,
(40) Mr, CABOUAT (France) considered that the  negotiations with Hungary, Poland and Czechoslovakia  had satisfactorily resolved the difficult problem of  arrears,
(41) The French delegation was particularly anxious  that the use of national currencies in the course of  future financial years should on no account play a  decisive rôle in the preparation of future  programmes,
(42) Subject to close observance of that principle,  the French delegation would vote for the resolutions  in question,
(43) Mr. VILLALON GALDAMES (Chile) asked  Mr. Harper-Smith to explain the statement that the  contributions :o be paid by the States in question  were to be assessed in accordance with the Financial  Regulations, unless otherwise decided by the General  Conference,
(44) Mr. Villalon alse asked for an explanation of  document 8C/ADM/32, which had not yet been adopted  and an which the methods of financing the budget were  laid down.
(45) Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) explained  that, under the arrangements made in the resolutions  the first payment of arrears would be made in 1955,  and the second in 1956, The amounts so received  would be reported to the ninth sassion as surpluses,  It would be for that Conference to dec:de whether  they were to be distributed in accordance with tha  F nancial Regulations. In any case, these payrients  of arrears could not be used for the 1955-56 budget,
(46) Mr. HUZAYIN (Egypt) paid a tribute to the  Committee on Contributions for the solution it had  feund to a prickly problem, He welcomed the spit  shown by those speakers who, while unable fully to  approve the resoluticns, would nevertheless ebstoin  rather than vote against them. It was much better  ‘oi an organization such as Unesco to settle the  problem once and for all,
(47) At the same time, the case of the three  countries which were returning to the fold was a  very special one, and he was emphatically of the  opinion that it must not be allowed to create a  precedent,
(48) Dr. MUDALIAR (India) was happy to note that  there had been so little opposition to the resolutions,  which he felt safeguarded the important principle  that Unesco should svffer no loss in collecting  arrears.    COMMISSION v-13
(49) Since the three countries concerned had already  shown such readiness to co-opercte, perhaps they  could together review the methocs whereby they  would make their payments, with the best interests  of the Organization 1a view.
(50) He entirely agreed with the delegate of Egypt  that the solution found must not constitute a  precedent,
(51) The DIRECTOF.-GENERAL suggested that the  last sentence in the first paragraph on page 2 "Whilst  it was understoos that every effort ...' should be  amended to read; ''Whilst it was understood that  every effort . .. should not be a deter mining factor  either in implementing the current programme or in  formulating future programmes of the Organization. "
(52) The Indian motion for adoption of ‘he resolution  relative to Czechoslovakia was thereupon put to the  vote and 1dopted by 35 votes to 0, with 15 abstentions.
(53) Dr. MUDALIAR (India), seconded by Mr.  SOLDA TOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics),  then moved adopt:on of the resolutions relative to  Hung/.ry and Poland.
(54) The resolution relative to Hungary was adopted  by 44 votes to 0, with 15 al stentions.
(5>) The resolution relative to Poland was adop'ed  bs 34 votes to 0, with 15 abstentions.
56) Mr, KOTSCHNIG (United States of America)  called for a vote on the introductory part of the  report and for a vote on the report as a whole,
(57) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) requested that sefore  a vole was taken on the first part of the report, ihe  text of the last sub-paragraph but one should be  altered to cover the Director-General's observation  on the use of national currencies both for the  current programme and for future programmes,
(58) Mr. KELLY (Australia) suggested that some  addition be made to the introduction to cover the  point made by the delegates of Egypt and India, 1.e.,  that the arrangement made should 1n no sense  constitute a precedent,
(59) Mr, HUZAYIN (Egypt) proposed that the words  "Neither should such an arrangement constitute a  precedent’ should be added to the last paragraph  but one (page 2) of the introduction.
(60) This proposal was adopted,
(61) It was unanimously agreed to recommend the  General Conference to adopt the introduction to the  report, with ‘he amendments proposed by the  Director-General and Mr. Huzayin.
(62) Document 8C/ADM/30 Add. 1, as a whole, was  tnen put to the vote and cdopted by 40 votes to 0,  with 10 abstentions,
(63) The CHAIRMAN said he had been delighted to  note the tributes paid to the lommittee on Contributions  - 569 -   V-13 ADMINISTRATIVE  and to its Chairman, In addition, the countries  concerned had displayed a most praiseworthy  readiness to co-operate. He was convinced that the  Committee, under the splendid leadership of Mr.  Sternberger, had made a real contribution to  international understanding,
(64) Mr. STERNBERGER (Chairman of the Committee  on Contributions) spoke with some diffidence as a  newcomer to the General Conference. The Commit-  tee had merely done its duty, He was deeply grateful  for the tributes paid to the Committee and to himself,
(65) The Committee then passed on to consideration  of document 8C/ADM/ 32: Report by the Committee  on Contributions - methods of financing the budget.
(66) The CHAIRMAN said that, when the discussion  of the abova document had been discontinued, the  Commission had been confronted with a United  Kingdom motion to the effect that the 1955-56  budget should be financed in accordance with three  specific provisions of the Financial Regulations,
(67) The delegation of Guatemala had submitted an  amendment to that proposal; he had been obliged to  rule that the motion by Guatemala constituted a  separate proposal.
(68) The delegate of Guatemala had now so altered  his proposal that it could be considered an amend-  ment to the United Kingdom proposal. He also  understood that the Japanese delegation had  suggested an amendment which had been accepted  by Guatemala and embodied in its own amendment,
(69) Mr, CARRERA MOLINA (Guatemala)  announced that for two reasons his delegation had  decided to withdraw the proposal it had submitted  the day before: firstly, in order to facilitate  discussion on many of the subjects still before the  Commission, and secondly because it had accepted  suggestions made by certain delegations which had  originally supported the proposal, but had afterwards  asked for its withdrawal.
(70) It had nevertheless joined the Mexican delegation  in submitting a new draft resolution, proposing that  contributions assessed on new Member States should  not be incorporated in the present budget,
(71) The CHAIRMA 4 had understood that the delegation  of Guatemala was changing the wording of its resolution  to adopt that suggested by Japan, But the proposal  just read out differed from the Japanese proposal,
(72) Mr, HAGUIWARA (Japan) said that he was not  opposed to the substance of the resolution submitted  Jointly by the Guatemalan and Mexican delegations;  with regard to the wording, however, he wished to  point out that his own amendment seemed clearer.
(73) The CHAIRMAN felt convinced that the only  way for the Commission to avoid an inextricable  muddle was to adjourn forthwith, leaving a small  working party, made up of the countries concerned,  to clarify their differences, in order to present a  proposal or proposals at the afternoon meeting. He  would suggest that the following countries be  represented on the working party: Egypt, United    COMMISSION  Kingdom, United States of America, Guatemala,  Brazil, Mexico and Japan,
(74) Mr. CABOUAT (France) said that his country  would like to be represented too,
(75) Mr. VILLALON GALDAMES (Chile) asked the  Chairman to explain the difference between the two  methods of financing the budget, One was according to  the Financial Regulations; the other was by special  financial measures. He would like the point made clear,
(76) The CHAIRMAN believed that nothing would be  gained by a discussion in the Commission until the  points at issue had been clarified, A certain group  of delegatior.s wanted provision to be made for  certain funds tobe used in 1955-56, ifit were found that  they could be used, and wanted the funds not so used  to be carried forward to 1957-58, But there were  grave procedural difficulties, into which he would  not go further at that stage.
(77) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) thought it would be  useful if the Rapporteur of the Committee on Contribu-  tions could take part in the work of the party suggested.
(78) It was agreed to adjourn until the «fternoon,  and that a small working party (Egypt, Unite}  Kingdom, United States of America, Guatemala,  Brazil, Mexico, Japan, and the Rapporteur of the  Committee on Contributions) should meet forthwith,
(79) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL wished to comment  on statements made by him in the draft programme  and budget documents. Recommendations had been  made therein to the effect that, as an exception to  the Financial Regulations, certain income now  accruing should be used for the 1957-58 budget. The  idea he had had in mind was that if, in 1954, all the  money available were used, with an assessment level  that would not cause Member States to pay more in
1955-56 than in 1953-54 (except, of course, in the  case of new Member States), the funds available  would be more than sufficient fcr the budget proposals  he had submitted. He had proposed that, because a  special situation would obtai:1 at the 1956 Conference,  the assessment level of Member States should not be  lovered (except for such slight adjustments as migh:  be made in accordance with the United Nations scale  of contributions, and with the possible exception of  the United States of America) and that money should  not be returned to Member States. Whatever the  assessment leve) in 1955-56, the level would have to  be raised in 1957-58 to maintain the same spending  level, unless part of the funds now accruing were  carried forward to 1957-58.
(80) The expenditure decided on at the eighth session  (use of Russian; decision to hold the ninth session in  New Delti) had modified the situation to some extent,
(81) His statements must not be allowed to influence the  judgment of the Commission in deciding on the United  Kingdom proposal to abide by the Financial Regulations.  The irterests of Unesco were taken care of by the  propnsals before the Commission, and it was for  the Commission to decide.  The meeting rose at 12,10 p.m,  - 570 -