1 December 1954 at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman : Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil)  CONSIDERATION OF THE SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT OF  THE HEADQUARTERS COMMITTEE (document 18 HQ/5)
(1) The CHAIRMAN drew the Committee's attention  to document 18 HQ/5 and suggested an amendment of  the English text - replacement of the word "larger"  (paragraph 3) by "appropriate".
(2) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) suggested  changing the word "one" ("which would at the one  time") to "same".
(3) Mr. FERNANDEZ QUINTANILLA (Spain), as a  sequel to the Chairman's proposal, suggested  changing the words "mas amplio" in the Spanish  text to "otro",
(4) The CHAIRMAN suggested amending paragraph  (c) of the resolution by replacing the present text by  the words ‘to proceed with the actual construction  required".
(5\ Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Rappo"teur) explained  that the report before the Commission was a  supplement to document 8C/ADM/24, which would  include both the supplementary report of the  Headquarters Committee and its attendant draft  resolution and the supplementary report of the  Director-General.
(6) He suggested that the Committee review the  report article by article and the resolution paragraph  by paragraph before forwarding the document to the  General Conference.
(7) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) asked that the  word "'the'' (that the ICAO had formally declared...)  be struck out of paragraph 4 of the English version.  Incidentally, if ICAO was likely at some future date  to discontinue using the prospective building, the  position would then have to be considered by Unesco  in agreement with the French Government; he  wished a reference to that effect included in the  report.
(8) Mr, GARDNER DAVIES (Rapporteur) thought the  important thing was to authorize the Director-  General to pursue the negotiations and to mention  the formal point agreed upon by the Cornmittee and  stipulating that the agreement must safeguard Unesco's  exclusive title to the premises occupied by ICAO,  He felt that the Director-General would obviously be  guided by what had been said in the Committee's  discussions and saw no need to add to the length of  the report.
(9) The CHAIRMAN enquired whether Mr. Cowell  agreed with Mr, Gardner Davies' remarks or  wished to make a formal statement.
(10) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) appreciated the  Rapporteur's point of view but felt that paragraph 5  of the report apparently applied only to the period of  actual bvilding, while paragraph 6 only provided for  the safeguarding of Unesco's rights of ownership.  It would be useful to add to that paragraph a passage  recommending that the necessary arrangements be  made in case ICAO ceased to occupy the premises.
(11) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Rapporteur) pointed  out that the Rapporteur's task was simply to draft  proposals; they must in any case be discussed by  the Committee.
(12) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) moved the adoption  of Mr. Cowell's text.
(13) Adopted.
(14) The CHAIRMAN suggested that they take the  draft resolution next.
(15) Mr. POMPEI (Italy) thought it might be  preferable to send forward two separate resolutions,  the first applying to the general execution of the  project for the headquarters building and the second  to the building of we ICAO office.
(16) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Rapporteur) thought  that the Conference did not need to take any decision  about the general execution of the undertaking and  should confine itself to noting the progress achieved,  on the other hand, it had to give its views on the  specific question of the ICAO building.
(17) Mr. POMPEI (Italy) appreciated Mr. Gardner  Davies' point of view but feared that the Conierence  might not fully realize what had already been done by  the Headquarters Committee and the Director-  General. He the-efore suggested submitting two  draft resolutions; the first would comprise the first  two introductory paragraphs of the present project,  plus paragraph 1 and the second the third introductory  paragraph, plus paragraph 2.
(18) That, he felt, would make approval of the  action taken by the Headquarters Committee and by  the Director-General more formal. He also thought  a paragraph should be added to the firs:  resolution on the future activities of the  Headquarters Committee.  - 933 -   XI-3 HEADQUARTERS
(19) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Rapporteur) suggested  two alternative courses. The first would consist in  adopting the solution advocated by Mr. Pompei but  without adding anything about the work of the  Headquarters Committee, which had been laid down  by resolution 13 of the second extraordinary session  of the General Conference; the second course would  be to retain the text of the present draft unchanged  and delete only paragraph 1, which could be re-  inserted at the request of any of the delegations  represented on the Administrative Commission.
(20) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) thought it  would be hard to improve on the Rapporteur's draft,  Nevertheless, he was in favour of two separate draft  resolutions and thought the words "with satisfaction”  in paragraph 1 of the first resolution could hardly be  kept, as they seemed to refer to the Headquarters  Committee itself; it could left to a delegation to  move their insertion.
(21) Mr. KABIR (India) was against splitting up the  original draft resolution and suggested keeping only  the draft resolution referring to the ICAO building;  he felt that the general resolution "notes with  satisfaction...’ could be moved by a delegation in  the Administrative Commission.
(22) The CHAIRMAN thought that two draft resolutions  could be submitted, as two separate documents  (documents 8C/ADM/ 24 and 8C/ADM/ 24 Add.) were  going to be presented to the Administrative  Commission,
(23) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) considered that the  Headquarters Committee should report to the  General Conference in plenary meeting and not to  the Administrative Commission.
(24) The CHAIRMAN informed Mr. Photiades that  the report had to be submitted to the Administrative  Commission.  {25} Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) did not think that  procedure was legally admissible.
(26) Mr. POMPEI (Italy) thought that they could  submit to the Administrative Commission a draft  resolution dealing solely with the construction of the  ICAO building and that one of the delegatior.s present  could move a general resolution on the activities of  the Headquarters Committee and thus spare the  latter's blushes.
(27) The CHAIRMAN asked the representative of  the Executive Board how he thought the report should  be submitted.
(28) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive  Board) considered that the Headquarters Committee  was a committee of the General Conference on the  same footing as the Administrative Commission and  could accordingly report to the plenary conference,  which could then refer the matter back to the  Administrative Commissien.
(29) Mr. CABOUAT (France) saw no objection to    COMMITTEE  submitting two draft resolutions and felt that the  words "with satisfaction" referred more particularly  to the Secretariat and did not imply eulogy of the  Committee itself. He was thus in favour of the first  solution suggested by the delegate of Italy for  submitting two draft resolutions to the General  Conference. It would simplify the work of the  Administrative Commission if it were given ready-  made drafts.
(30) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) thought it was  immaterial whether they submitted one or two  resolutions but maintained his proposal to delete  the words "with satisfaction".
(31) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Rapporteur) explained  that the Headquarters item was on the agenda of the  Administrative Commission which had already been  adopted by the General Conference. He moved that  the text of the resolution be kept as it stood or be  split into two and the contents considered in the light  of the present discussion.
(32) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive  Board) pointed out that the procedure in question had  been adopted to save time. The Administrative  Commission undoubtedly contained more experts on  matters relating to the new Headquarters than the  plenary conference and it was easier for the  Rapporteur of the Administrative Commission to  cover the matter in his report.
(33) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Rapporteur) said that  in 1952 the Headquarters Committee did submit its  report, including the draft resolution, to the  Administrative Commission.
(34) The CHAIRMAN said he would submit the report  to the Administrative Commission but pointed out  that that action would not affect the Headquarters  Committee's right to report direct to the General  Conference.
(35) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) hoped that that  procedure would not constitute a precedent.
(36) The CHAIRMAN asked the Committee to  approve the substance of the report and suggested  that, in view of the limited time available for  reproduction of the final text, they adopt a version  as close as possible to the text, as criginally worded,  on the understanding that the delegations representad  on the Administrative ‘ommission could submit such  amendments as they chose.
(37) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) reminded  members of the amendments suggested for  paragraph 6, and noted that paragraph 2 (b) of the  draft resolution did not mention what would be the  rdle of the Headquarters Committee.
(38) The CHAIRMAN moved an amendment to the  beginning of paragraph 2 (b}, to read: "to conclude  with ICAO, in consultation with the Headquarters  Committee..."
(39) Mr, POMPEI (Italy) suggested that, instead of  - 934 -   XI1-3  HEADQUARTERS COMMITTEE  that, the amendment should read: "to conclude with  ICAO, after approval by the Headquarters  Committee. ..". He also felt that the wording of  paragraph 2 (c) "to proceed with the construction of  additional building" was very wide.
(40) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Rapporteur) said i* was  clearly understood that the Secretariat was only  authorized to erect that part of the new building  which could be used immediately.
(41) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) asked whether the  Legal Adviser had approved the text under discussion  and remarked that the Administrative Commission  might very well ask the egal Committee for its  views.
(42) The CHAIRMAN said that the draft report had  been communicated to the Legal Committee. He  moved the approval of document 18 HQ/5 on the under-  standing that the draft resolution could be amended  by the Administrative Commission,
(43) Adopted.  ADOPTION OF THE PROVISIONAL MINUTES  OF THE MELTING OF 23 NOVEMBER
(44) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Rapporteur) reminded  the Comm ttee that it had to approve the provisional  minutes of its meeting of 25 November.
(45) The CHAIRMAN moved that formal approval of  - 935 -     the minutes in question be postponed till the next  meeting.
(46) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Rapporteur) thought  that the Committee should decide the date of that  meeting.
(47) Mr. LEGUEN (Secretary of the Committee)  pointed out that, under the rules for the adoption of  the minutes of organs of the General Conference,  delegates could hand in their corrections to the  Secretariat of the Conference within a period of 3  days; that prccedure could be applied to the minutes  of the Headquarters Committee.
(48) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) moved the  adoption of that procedure.
(49) Adopted.
(50) Mr, GARDNER DAVIES (Rapporteur) moved  that the date of the next meeting of the Committee  be decided by the Chairman in consultation with the  Director-General. He hoped that the Committee  would be able to meet at the end of January when  the members of the International Panel of Five  Architects would be in Paris.
(51) The CHAIRMAN said he would settle that date  in consultation with the Director-General.
(52) Adopted.  The meeting rose at 5,30 p.m.