PROGRAMME AND  assumption that Member States would supply teachers  without cost. Hitherto, only France had made such  an offer.  {205) There would be the capital costs of some  $550, 000, which would have to he borrowed. If the  scheme were adopted, the Conference would have to  authorize a loan from the Working Capital Fund to  borrow half of the money required; the rest would  no doubt have to be raised from some French agency.
(206) The delegate of France had suggested that the  principle involved should be further studied. But  that had already been done at length in the document  itself.
(207) Hence .t would be well to take a decision forth-  with on the principle involved. If the principle were  rejected, there would be no call for further study.  If it were adopted, there would be need of course for  planning.  BUDGET     COMMISSION rv-15
(208) By 25 votes to 2, with 16 abstentions, it was  decided that Unesco should not create such a school.
(209) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  said that the Commission had recommended increases  in the expenditure of the Education Department amoun-  ting to $96, 990 net. Should the Director-General  continue to submit proposals for reductions?
(210) The CHAIRMAN recalled that, in accordance  with an earlier decision, the Commission was entirely  free after it had finished its examination of the pro-  gramme as a whole to return to each main chapter  separately and to hear what the Director-General had  to say about suchdetailed adjustments as he thought  possible.  The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m,  FIFTEENTH MEETING
29 November 1954 at 10a.m.  Chairman : Mr, BOURGEOIS (Switzerland)
(1) Before the debate on the programme of the  Department of Natural Sciences began, Mr. SEVERI  (Italy) wished to pay tribute to the memory of the  physicist, Fermi, who had just died from cancer in  Chicago. Fermi, who was born in Italy and had  taught for several years at the University of Rome,  had done remarkable work on nuclear physics and  artificial radio-activity. Mr. Severi hoped that  Fermi's discoveries would be used solely in the  service of civilization and peace, and that the great  scientist, whose death was so untimely, would be  counted amongst the benetactors of mankind.
(2) Mr. ANGELL (United States of America) wished,  in the absence of the United States scientific repres-  entative, to express his delegation's deep regret at  the untimely death of Professor Fermi, which had cut  short a career with great potentialities for world  peace and security. The United States of America,  the home of much of Professor Fermi's work, could  not but suffer from the loss.
(3) Mr. LEROY (France), on behalf of the French  delegation, expressed sympathy with scientific  circles in Italy and the United States of America in  their loss.
(4) Mr. SANDOVAL VALLARTA (Mexico),on behalf of  his delegation, joined inthe tribute paidtothe memory  of Enrico Fermi. He had personal reasons for doing so,  as he had known him and been a friend of his, and national  reasons, as the distinguished research worker hadhad  scientific contacts with Mexico for more than 20 years.
(5) The CHAIRMAN asked the Commission to observe  a few moments' silence in homage to the memory of  Enrico Fermi.
(6) He reminded the Commission that the decisions it  had taken when discussing the Education Department's  programme had resulted in an increase of nearly  $100, 000 in the buugct estimates. He suggested that  the Commission consider the other chapters of the  draft programme and budget and refer its recammen-  dations to the Advisory Corimittee on Programme and  Budget, which would study them at the same time as  the Director-General's proposals. The Commission  could then consider the views expressed by the Com-  mittee and draw up its final report for the General  Conference.
(7) The Chairman then drew his colleagues’ attention  to the need for expediting the discussions and Limiting  th: ir remarks to the essential minimum. Even then,  evening meetings would perhaps be required to get  through the Commission's extremely heavy agenda.  ITEM 8.4.2 OF RFVISED AGENDA: NATURAL SCIENCES  Paragraphs 1-16
(8) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) first paid tribute to the scientific genius of  Enrico Fermi, with whom he had on several occasions  been able to collaborate.
(9) He then said that it would be difficult for him to  give the Commission full details of his Department's  programme in a few minutes. Much had been said  - 363 -   PROGRAMME AND IV-15  about concentration and the remodelling of the pro-  gramme, but, in the scientific field, the most  important thing to remember was taat Unesco's main  object was to place science at the service of man.
(10) The Department of Natural Sciences had but  limited means for achieving that object: $800, 000  a year and some 50 people for the period 1953-54.  Fortunately, those modest resources were comple-  mented by substantial contributions from outside -  the support and co-operation of governments, National  Commissions, the Specialized Agencies of the United  Nations and all scientists of good will.
(11) Mr. Auger thought that science could be regar-  ded from four main standpoints, corresponding to the  principal parts of the programme of his Department:  universality, utilization, dynamism and value.
(12) In the first place, science was universal and of  interest to all the countries of the world. Unesco  was accordingly fostering the development of inter-  national scientific co-operation, the improvement of  understanding between research workers, and the  improvement of the standard of scientific  documentation.
(13) Science was not of purely theoretical interest;  it could be harnessed in the service of mankind and  used to improve the lot of the people as a whole. In  that respect, the Department of Natural Sciences was  making a technical contribution to the work of the  Specialized Agencies.
(14) Science was also characterized by continual  progress, to which 1t was impossible to see any end.  For that reason, it was necessary to improve science  teaching so that the young could play their part in the  scientific work of the future, and to spread scientific  knowledge amongst the adult population so that the  man in the street might have his share in scientific  developments throughout the world.
(15) Finally, science had what might be called a  commercial value, for countries rich in scientific  knowledge were able to exploit their capital better.  But the highly developed countries could place their  scientific knowledge at the disposal of less privileged  countries without any loss to themselves. They  might even benefit from such action in the long run.  The programme of the Department of Natural Sciences  therefore included projects for providing Member  States with scientific assistance.
(16) Mr. ESTELRICH (Spain) wished to comment on  chapter 2 of the proposed programme and budget as  a whole. In its broad outline, he found it perfectly  acceptable and very reasonable in its arrangement  of activities. But he had the following observations  to make: (1) however praiseworthy might be the  activities shown under Section II, "Contribution to  research, particularly for the improvement of the  economic and social conditions of mankind", he  thought that the first and third headings of Section I  best reflected Unesco's particular responsibilities  in the field covered by the Department; (2) conse-  quently, the delegation of Spain supported resolutions
2.11 and 2. 12 unreservedly, and particularly the  latter. Owing to its special position in the Spanish-  speaking world, Spain believed that it had a great  part to play in three of the tasks mentioned in  resolution 2.12, i, e.: the standardization of  scientific terminology, the compilation of multilingual  BUDGET     COMMISSION  dictionaries and the improvement of scientific trans-  lations. The delegation also supported resolution
2.121 and asked that one of the terminological bureaux  proposed under it, be set up in Madrid; (3) Mr,  Estelrich therefo:e advocated the stabilization of the  budget for Section II of chapter 2, until satisfactory  results had been obtained in international scientific  co-operation and in the teaching and dissemination of  science.
(17) Mr. STOLETOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics), referring to the three aspects of Unesco's  scientific work set out in paragraph 2 of the Natural  Sciences chapter, wished to add a fourth: the use of  scientific achievement solely for peace and the benefit  of mankind. He supported the resolution on the  peaceful use of atomic energy submitted by the Indian  delegation in document 8C/DR/9 (rev. ) and hoped that  it would be unanimously adopted by the Commission,
(18) The Soviet Union had long been interested in  atomic energy and, not long after the discovery of a  system of chemical elements by Mendeleiev in 1867,  theoretical discoveries were made which foreshadowed  the splitting of the atom. Soviet scientists had carried  out important research work during the past decade;  they had studied closely the achievements of scientists  and physicists in other countries, especially those of  Professor Fermi, whose death was deeply to be  regretted. Great progress had been made in the use  of radio-activity and radio-isotopes for studying the  exchange of elements in living organisms, in the  study and treatment of diseasz in human beings and  animals, in biology and genetics and in general as a  means of investigating tne secrets of nature for the  good of humanity.
(19) The Soviet delegation was also in favour of the  French delegate's proposal for an expert discussion  on radio-isotopes in Europe, but urged that more  governments should be invited to participate.
(20) In conclusion, he urged that Unesco should adopt  a strong policy on the peaceful use of atomic energy.  The Soviet Government would support any action in  the direction of prohibiting the use of atomic weapons  and encouraging the use of atomic energy for the  benefit of humanity.
(21) Mr. SAMBURSKY (Israel) considered the chapter  on Natural Sciences one of the best in Unesco's pro-  gramme. A study of the budgetary distribution  between items, however, showed a slightly lower  proportion for research than for the dissemination of  science, and he felt that the reverse should be the  case.
(22) A great deal had been said on the need for con-  centration, and the Natural Sciences programme was  well concentrated; but there was a danger that, if the  policy were pursued too rigidly, no room would be  left for new activities. In his opinion the programme  should be divided into three parts: contributions to  scientific organizations; specific activities, such as  arid zone research, the geophysical year and travel-  ling exhibitions; and exploratory studies for the  selection of future programmes, and ten per cent of  the reserve budget should be used for exploration in  new fields, There were numerous possibilities for  research: for example, the creation of more food,  the use of photo-synthesis, radio biology; and Unesco  - 364 -   PROGRAMME AND BUDGET COMMISSION IV-15  could co-ordinate and give a stimulus to work already  being done in the various fields.
(23) With regard to the teaching of science, he had  been unable to find any reference to the teaching of  the history of science. He strongly advocated its  inclusion in an appropriate part of the programme.
(24) Finally, comparing the budgetary distribution  between Natural Sciences and the other chapters, he  noted that Education, Mass Communication and  Cultural Activities accounted for 70.5% of the total,  Natural Sciences for 17% and Social Sciences for
12.5%. If some of the scientific activities, such as  dissemination of science, could be transferred to  other departments, it would be possible to increase  scientific research under chapter 2. He would like  the proposal to be considered, if not for the 1955-56  programme, at any rate for the subsequent period.
(25) Mr. STANKOVIC (Yugoslavia) congratulated the  Secretariat on having drawn up a well-balanced  programme for the Natural Sciences. He considered  that the European Organization for Nuclear Research  and the programme of arid zone research could be  held up as examples of well-conducted enterprises.
(26) In connexion with the International Advisory  Committee on Research in the Natural Sciences pro-  gramme, Mr. Stankovic understood that the experts  who had met in 1953 had been particularly interested  in the development of national centres for scientific  research. However, the draft programme provided  only for a conference of directors of national scien-  tific research centres and councils (paragraph 72).
(27) Mr. Stankovic said that the Yugoslav delegation  attached great importance to the question. Two  trends were to be observed: in some countries,  government action in the field of scientific research  was increasing, not only in the financing but also in  the conduct of research; in other countries, scienti-  fic research was developing with greater flexibility.
(28) Mr. Stankovic thought it essential for the  various national scientific research councils to be  able to compare notes and make a critical evaluation  of the results obtained.
(29) It would also be well for Unesco to collaborate  more closely with non-governmental organizations  and the Specialized Agencies of the United Nations.  The interest in oceanographic research, for example,  was satisfactory, but Mr. Stankovic wished to know  whether the Secretariat contemplated co-operating  with the International Council for the Exploration of  the Sea. The activities undertaken in connexion with  arid zone problems had shown that it was impossible  to tackle such vast and complex questions without the  collaboration of specialist bodies.
(30) It was also necessary to co-ordinate Unesco's  activities with those of the other Specialized Agencies.  With regard to the "campaign against cancer" project,  Mr. Stankovic observed that the World Health  Organization was also interested in that question,  and he thought that the respective provinces of the  two Organizations should be carefully defined. It  would perhaps be preferable, on that account, to call  the project "Basic research on cell growth", in  accordance with the suggestions made by WHO in  document 8C/PRG/20, Add.1, page 2.   (31) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) hoped Unesco would  - 365 -  give more support to the International Council of  Scientific Unions, the European Nuclear Research  Centre at Geneva and the Computation Centre in Rome.  He also noted that twelve of the fellowships provided  for in the programme of the Department of Natural  Sciences were placed under the "higher budgetary  level", and asked that, if necessary, those fellowships  be reserved primarily for the Geneva and Rome Centres.
(32) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) congratulated  the Director of the Department of Natural Sciences  on having established world-wide services with a  budget smaller than that of many national councils for  scientific research. He had, however, two remarks  to make on the Department's draft programme.
(33) In the first place, the biclogical aspect of man's  life received too little attention. It was all very well  to deal with the environment and the material condi-  tions of human progress, but more importance should  be accorded to the problems of genetics, endocrinology,  the nervous system and the brain. In a chapter in  which the improvement of the economic and social  conditions of life was taken to be one of the fundamental  aims, the biological being who was to benefit from all  those efforts should not be forgotten.
(34) The other problem that seemed to receive too  little attention was that of the relations between  science and ethics. Mr. Berrede Carneiro did not  want restrictions to be placed on freedom of scientific  research, but he thought it was time to set limits to  the possible applications of scientific knowledge.  International conventions were already in force on  such matters as the production of drugs and narcotics.  At a time when governments tended increasingly to  take over scientific production, they should be asked  to conform to certain rules.
(35) Mr. RAADI (Iran) was sure that the Director of  the Department of Natural Sciences had not intended  to place in order of importance the four standpoints  from which science could be viewed. Indeed, the last  two he had mentioned might determine the first two.
(36) Mr. Raadi thought that both the teaching and  dissemination of science and aid to Member States in  scientific matters should have priority. The develop-  ment of international research and co-operation was  impossible so long as science was not taught and  scientific knowledge spread throughout the world,
(37) Mr. Raadi also thought it very important to in-  crease the number of fellowships.
(38) With regard to the relations of science and  ethics, Mr. Raadi thought that progress in specializa-  tion was causing scientists to retire into an ivory  tower and to lose touch with general ideas affecting  the whole of mankind, It would be advisable to see  that a close connexion was maintained between science  and general education in institutes and estaolishments  where science was taught.
(39) Taking up the remarks of the Israeli jelegate on  the need for paying due attention to the history of  science, Mr. Raadi emphasized that the question  should be approached from the standpoint of cultural  history as a whole and that barriers should not be  raised between science and general culture.
(40) Finally, Mr. Raadi hoped there would be closer  collaboration between the various councils set up  under Unesco's auspices.   IV-15 PROGRAMME AND
(41) Mr. AL-KOUSSI (Egypt) began by joining in the  tribute to the memory of the great physicist, Enrico  Fermi.
(42) He felt that after reading the preamble to chap-  ter 2 and hearing Mr. Auger's statement, all  delegates were bound to feel satisfaction at the  balance achieved by the Department of Natural  Sciences. Mr. Al-Koussi was sorry, however, that  a working party had not been set up at the current  session of the Conference, to study the Department's  programme, for it was a field on its own.
(43) He was pleased at the results secured in inter-  national scientific co-operation, at the work  accomplished in liaison with ICSU, and at the progress  achieved with regard to scientific documentation.
(44) He thought it would be advisable to make a list  of all the institutions and laboratories that might  render practical services to nations or groups of  nations.  (#5) He noted with satisfaction the interest Unesco  was taking in oceanographic problems. In oceano-  graphy, research was invariably rapidly rewarded.  There was, for instance, no doubt that such  important questions as the life and migrations of the  tunny could be settled only by international  co-operation.
(46) So far as the relations between science and  society were concerned, dealt with in paragraph 9  of the preamble to chapter 2, Mr. Al-Koussi thought  that the Department of Natural Sciences should co-  operate closely with the other departments, and  particularly with the Department of Mass Communica-  tion, once it had been reorganized.
(47) Mr. Al-Koussi, however, deplored the  increasing clumsiness of the international bureau-  cracy, which rivalled that of national government  departments. It was understandable that scientists  should often feel impatient and disillusioned, lost,  as they were, in a labyrinth of meetings of experts,  commissions, committees and seminars. What  practical results had, for instance, been obtained  under the arid zone programme? Had any field  research been undertaken? It would be better to send  teams of experts to work in some arid region. Their  work was sure to be useful, and direct action was  better than symposia and meetings of experts.
(48) In the same way, Mr. Al-Koussi hoped that  oceanographic research in the Indo-Pacific region  would be begun shortly.
(49) Finally, he strongly urged the need for greater  concentration of efforts.  {50) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) noted that all the delegates who had  spoken had laid stress on the importance of some  part of his Department's programme. Each part had  been regarded as meriting priority by one or other  of the preceding speakers. It might, therefore, be  concluded that there was no serious error of propor-  tion in the programme, since no project had been  severely criticized.
(51) For instance, the Spanish delegate had thought  it better to stabilize the appropriations for scientific  research in order to promote collaboration with  international orgenizations and improve scientific  documentation, whereas the Israeli delegate had been  in favour of increasing the funds for research.  - 366 -     BUDGET COMMISSION
(52) These were budgetary problems, and the  Department of Natural Sciences, with the appropria-  tions proposed, could do no more than was suggested  in that chapter. It was, incidentally, the Ceneral  Conference which fixed the amount of subventions.
(53) With regard to the Soviet delegate's remarks,  Mr. Auger drew the Commission's attention to  documents 8C/PRG/24 and Addendum, in which the  Secretariat proposed a work plan designed to  implement the draft resolutions submitted by France  (DR/1), India (DR/9 rev.) and Japan (DR/32 rev. ),  if they were approved.
(54) In answer to the Israeli delegate, Mr. Auger  said that the Secretariat did not underestimate the  importance of the problem of photo-synthesis, but  there again it was a question of funds and cf concen-  tration of che programme. It was impossible to do  everything at once.
(55) Referring to the Yugoslav delegate's remarks  about the International Advisory Committee on  Research in the Natural Sciences programme, Mr.  Auger said that the Committee was to meet in 1954  at Milan and would consider questions concerning  scientific research in the universities and in industry  and the openings for research workers.
(56) Unesco was always ready to collaborate with  the other Specialized Agencies. For instance, the  implementation of the Japanese draft resolution con-  cerning the dangers resulting from the use of  radio-active products would necessitate close liaison  with WHO. In the same way, the French and Indian  draft resolutions, already mentioned, implied close  collaboration with the United Nations and the  Specialized Agencies concerned.
(57) In answer to Mr. Photiades, Mr. Auger pointed  out that provision was made for a total of 38 fellow-  ships, for two years, in his Department's  programme. Several of them would certainly be  used for the activities Mr. Photiades had mentioned.
(58) Mr. Auger then explained that the International  Union of Physiological Sciences was soon to join  ICSU and would thus be able to benefit from Unesco's  aid. As for the relations between the natural  sciences and the social sciences, Mr. Auger em-  phasized that the question of race, for instance, was  both social and biological. He reminded the  Commission that the periodical, Impact, was  designed to deal with the problems involved in the  relations of science and society. That publication  was therefore an answer to the question with which  certain delegates had been concerned.
(59) Mr. Auger agreed with Mr. Raadi that it would  be regrettable to isolate the sciences from humanistic  studies, but in his opinion it was no less important  to see that specialists in the literary branches of  study were not completely ignorant of contemporary  science. The efforts made to encourage the teaching  of science and the spread of scientific knowledge  among adults should help to remedy existing  shortcomings.
(60) Lastly, Mr. Auger joined with the delegate of  Egypt in deploring the clumsiness oi the modern  bureaucratic system. But he emphasized that  successive consultations were the only way of  reaching general agreement on a particular problem  in accordance with democratic principles. He also  reminded the Egyptian delegate that an important   PROGRAMME AND  project for the study of a given arid region was  mentioned in paragraph 98 of the chapter under  consideration.
(61) The Commission finally approved paragraphs
1-16, subject to later changes in the figures,
2.1 Development of international co-operation  Paragraphs 17-24
(62) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commission)  read out the first paragraph of draft resolution
8C/DR/18, submitted by the Indian delegation, and  the comments made on it by the Advisory Committee  on Programme and Budget (document 8C/BUD/1,  page 11).
(63) The project was supported by the delegates of  Iran and Liberia.
(64) In reply to a question from Mr. ANGELL (United  States of America), Mr. AUGER (Director, Depart-  ment of Natural Sciences) explained that the project  had no budgetary implications, if it was simply a  question of inviting Member States to make requests.  The necessary funds would then be drawn from the  technical assistance budget.
(65) The project was unanimously approved.  (A) International Council of Scientific Unions (ICSU)
(66) Mr. SEVERI (Italy) recommended increasing the  subvention to ICSU. He made special mention of the  needs of the Zoological Station at Naples, which  depended for its resources on ICSU.
(67) Sir John SIMONSEN (United Kingdom), referring  to paragraphs 20-24, said that he had to speak in the  dual capacity of delegate of the United Kingdom and ob-  server for the International Council of Scientific Unions.
(68) Speaking in the latter capacity, he said that  many people were not aware of the scope of ICSU's  activities, which included assistance to the meteoro-  logical station at Stockholm, the physical station in  the Pyrenees and a number of abstracting centres,  which all worked in the service of science. The  original budget of $245,000 had been reduced by  stages to the sum of $180, 000 proposed for 1955 and
1956, regardless of the fact that there were now  eleven unions to support and three new ones shortly  to be added. The Secretary-General of ICSU had, at  the last meeting of the Council's Executive Board,  asked for additional funds for carrying on activities.  In view of the increase in membership he felt justified  in proposing that Unesco's subvention should be  increased by $50, 000.
(69) Speaking as the representative of the United  Kingdom Government, however, he was obliged to  oppose the granting of any subvention to ICSU, and to  propose that any savings made on the science budget  should be diverted to technical aid.
(10) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) thought it essential  to strengthen ICSU, which was one of the pillars on  which Unesco's work rested.  - 367 -     BUDGET COMMISSION IV-15
(71) Mr. LEROY (France) hoped that additional  funds might be made available to ICSU.
(72) Mr. KRUYT (Netherlands) strongly supported  the proposal to increase the subvention to ICSU,  which was performing valuable work for international  co-operation in science. It would be less costly for  Unesco to support the Council than to undertake such  activities itself.
(73) Mr. ANGELL (United States of America) re-  minded the Commission that the proposal to increase  the subvention was neither made nur supported by  the United Kingdom. Moreover, the budget of Unesco  had already been exceeded by $100,000 and there  was little possibility of any surplus being available  for the purpose.
(74) He was in favour of concentrating on activities  of major importance and opposed an increase in the  subvention.
(75) On a point of order, the proposal was formally  moved by the delegate of the Netherlands and secon-  ded by the delegate of France.
(76) Dr. MUDALIAR (India) supported the proposal,  with the proviso that certain of Unesco's activities,  such as the conference on public understanding of  science, and science exhibitions, should ultimately  be taken over by ICSU.
(77) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) said that ICSU could render great services  to the Secretariat, when, for instance, the opinion of  specialists was sought on some project. It was,  however, difficult to commission ICSU to carry out  specific projects, as the Council had only a very  small secretariat, and, to obtain satisfactory results,  it would have to establish a large service comparable  to the Department of Natural Sciences itself.
(78) However, an attempt was being made to achieve  closer collaboration between Unesco and ICSU. In  the field of scientific literature, for example, ICSU  had set up an Abstracting Service, which received  contracts from Unesco and had already achieved  remarkable results
(79) Mr. ANGELL (United States of America) said  that the proposal was entirely unrealistic and he  would oppose it. There was no possibility of a  surplus in the budget, and far more likelihood of a  deficit.
(80) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) asked if  figures could be given so that the Commission would  know the implications of the proposal,
(81) Mr. KRUYT (Netherlands), referring to the  suggestion of the Indian delegate, said that abstrac-  ting was one of the activities which might well be  transferred from Unesco to ICSU. In reply to the  delegate of Brazil, an additional $20, 000, if devoted  entirely to travel costs, would enable the scientific  unions to meet more frequently. Hitherto work had  been hampered by the lack of furds for meetings  outside the ICSU congresses.
(82) Mr. ZAMORANO HERNANDEZ (Chile) said that   IV-15 PROGRAMME AND  he was not very well informed about the activities of  ICSU, but he did not think it advisable to contemplate  hypothetical requests. In order to increase the ICSU  subvention, funds would have to be withdrawn from  other headings, a course of action which he considered  to be futile. New schemes should be based on funds  actually available. For that reason, he endorsed the  views expressed by the delegate of the United States  of America.
(83) Mr. LAUGIER (France) whole-heartedly sup-  ported any proposal to increase the subvention  granted to ICSU. He added that the Commission's  recommendation should also have weight with the  Executive Board. If any savings were made on  certain items in the budget as the work proceeded,  a request should be made that those funds be allocated  to ICSU.
(84) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) fully supported the  proposal of the Netherlands delegate, for it seemed  inconceivable to him that ICSU should receive only  one-fiftieth of Unesco's budget.
(85) The recommendation of the Netherlands dele-  gate was finally approved by 31 votes to 16, with 5  abstentions.
(86) Paragraphs 17-24 were then unanimously  approved.  (B) Council of International Organizations of Medical  Sciences (paragraphs 25-27)
(87) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) said he  had the honour of representing the interests of  CIOMS at the General Conference. He asked the  Chairman to take a vote on the proposal made in  paragraph 27, which fully met the needs of CIOMS.  As Brazilian delegate, he entirely supported the pro-  posed subvention.
(88) Mr. RAADI (Iran) also supported the proposal.
(89) Sir John SIMONSEN (United Kingdom) strongly  supported the subvention, but suggested that better  internatior.al representation on the executive com-  mittee would be secured if the term of office were  reduced from nine years to, say, three years, with  a lapse of time before the same member could be  reappointed.
(90) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) suggested that the Director-General be  asked to send the CIOMS a note on the observations  made about its executive committee.
(91) It was so decided.
(92) Paragraphs 25-27 were unanimously approved.  (C) Union of International Engineering Associations  (paragraphs 28-31)
(93) Unanimously approved.  (D) Assistance to international scientific activities  (paragraph 32)
(94) Unanimously approved.  BUDGET COMMISSION  (i) General Assembly nf the International Union of  Biochemistry (paragraph 33)
(95) Unanimously approved.  (ii) International Geophysical Year (paragraphs 34-36)
(96) After the Secretary of the Commission had read  out the comments at the ton of page 10 of document
8C/BUD/1, paragraphs 34-36 were unanimously  approved.  Representation at meetings (paragraphs 37 and 38)
(97) Unanimous!y approved.
(98) Resolution 2. 11 was unanimously approved.  Project 2.12 - Improvement of scientific documentation  Paragraphs 39-48
(99) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commission)  read out the second part of draft resolution 8C/DR/18,  submitted by the Indian delegation.
(100) Dr. MUDALIAR (India) said that, as certain  seminars had already been held in the field of  scientific co-operation, the second part of Lis resolu-  tion was no longer necessary and he withdrew it.
(101) Project 2.12 was adopted.
(102) At the CHAIRMAN's request, the Secretary of  the Commission read out the comments of the  Advisory Committee on Programme and Buiget re-  garding the proposed contract with the Council of  International Organizations of Medical Science  (document 8C/BUD/1, page 10, (42) (A)).
(103) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) wished to  know why the Advisory Committee had recommended  striking out an activity which had always been per-  formed satisfactorily by the organization in question.
(104) Sir John SIMONSEN (United Kingdom) strongly  supported the publication of medical abstracts, but  was opposed to their translation. Errors in transla-  tion could have serious medical results.
(105) Mr. KRUYT (Netherlands) thought that it would  be more appropriate for the activity in paragraph 46  to be handled by the International Federation for  Documentation. There was a danger of duplication if  Unesco intervened.
(106) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) said that the question was whether the lists  of periodicals should be drawn up by specialist bodies  or by some central body such as the International  Federation for Documentation. In the latter case, the  Federation would have to be granted a subvention.  But the better course seemed to be to commission  Specialized organizations to carry out particular tasks.
(107) The CHAIRMAN wondered whether the Secre-  tariat should not consider consulting the International    - 368 -   PROGRAMME AND  Federation for Documentation and the International  Federation of Library Associations on all types of  bibliographical work.
(108) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) said  that the Director-General, who was particularly  interested in such questions, saw no reason wuy that  should not be done.
(109) The Advisory Committee's proposal was put  to the vote and approved by 31 votes to 7, with 9  abstentions.
(110) Speaking on a point of order, Mr. LAUGIER  (France) regretted that the Commission had agreed  to reduce a subvention approved by the Executive  Board and that the decision had been taken before Mr.  Berredo Carneiro had obtained the information for  which he had asked.
(111) Mr. BEKREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) also re-  gretted that the vote had been taken before the  reasons for the Advisory Committee's recommenda-  tion had been explained.
(112) The CHAIRMAN said he had thought that the  United Kingdom delegate's remarks could be taken  as a reply. *
(113) By 25 votes to 16, with 9 abstentions, the  Commission finally decided to rescind its previous  decision, pending the receipt of further information  from the representative of the Advisory Committee.
(114) Mr. SEVERI (Italy), on behalf of his delegation,  submitted the following draft resolution:  "Unesco shall encourage and promote the transla-  tion of treatises on the teaching of the applied  sciences, in the case of texts of universal value.  Proposals regarding tie translation of a text into the  language of a given country shall be submitted to the  Director-General by the National Commission of the  country that wishes the translation to be made.  The Director-General shall recommend such pro-  posals to the State in which the original text was  published and to scientific or cultural institutions,  and shall bring them to the notice of publishers likely  to be interested".  - 369 -     BUDGET COMMISSICN IV-15
(115) The proposal, seconded by the delegates of  Iran, Chile and Spain, was unanimously approved.
(116) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commis-  sion) read out the remarks of the Advisory  Committee on paragraph 54 (International Anatomical  Nomenclature Committee).
(117) In answer to a question from Mr. STANKOVIC  (Yugoslavia), Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of  Natural Sc. ices) said that the Advisory Committee's  proposal was the result of lengthy discussions. To  obtain rapid publication of the important work con-  cerned, the f.rst of its kind, it had been thought  preferable for Unesco to conclude a contract direct  with the appropriate organization.
(118) Sir John SIMONSEN (United Kingdom) thought  that a wider interested public would be reached if  the reports were published in the normal anatomical  journals. Moreover, there would be no outlay for  Un Sco.
(119) Mr. KRUYT (Netherlands) considered the  activity more appropriate for the World Health  Organization than for Unesco.
(120) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) explained that, under the agreement con-  cluded between WHO and Unesco, the basic sciences  came within the province of Unesco. A knowledge  of anatomy was certainly essential to the doctor, but  it was a basic science and therefore concerned Unesco.
(121) Mr. FORSYTH (New Zealand) wished to raise  the same questions as the delegates of the Nether-  lands and United Kingdom.
(122) The CHAIRMAN said that there could be no  satis‘actory discussion unless a member of the  Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget were  present to answer questions.  The meeting rose at 12.55 p.m.