CHAPTER II  PLENARY MEETINGS  FIRST PLENARY MEETING
12 November 1954 at 10,36 a.m.  Président: Dr. Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India)  CONTENTS  Opening of the session Sy the Head of the Delegation of India  Acaresses of welcome by representatives of the Government  of Uruguay . . « « + + « .  Statement by the President on arrears of contributions  Speech by the Delegate of USSR .  Establishment of the Credentials Committee  OPENING OF THE SESSION BY THE HEAD OF THE  DELEGATION OF INDIA
(1) The PRESIDENT: Mr, President of the Council,  members of the Uruguayan Government, delegatesto  the eighth session of the General Conference of  Unesco, and friends,
(2) May I extend to you all a very hearty welcome to  this eighth session of the General Conference, meet-  ing in this beautiful city, pleasing to the eye and  soothing to the mind. It is the capital of Uruguay,  reputed to be a model democracy in this part of the  world, We are now witnessing democracy in action  ~ the country is in the throes of a general election.  It is said that democracies can function properly only  in small States - here is an example, Hitherto, in  history, when we wished to alter or abolish govern-  ments we have had either dynastic successions or  violent revolutions, A more human, a more civi-  lized, a more dignified method of altering constitu-  tions, of changing government is the method of free  elections, and in this country today we are experien-  cing such an election, I am informed that the people  of this country do not look upon political freedom as  an end in itself,
(3) Everything is being done to raise the material  standards of the people of Uruguay. You have here  free education - both in the schools and at university  level; you have free medical services, you have  pensions for the old and the sick and for people who  have spent their lives in government service; thus  os 3 € * 8 + n + + = 0 % =     - 35 -  the benefits of social legislation are widely spread.  I believe then that Uruguay can be regarded as a  model democracy. We wish it well, Nor have I any  doubt that it is the more secure because the country  has neither uramum nor oil.
(4) Since we last met, our membership has increased.  We are very glad to welcome the delegates from the  Soviet Union, which has for the first time joined this  Organization. I venture to hope that their presence  here will contribute towards dissipating the mists of  misunderstanding, towards dissolving, so to speak,  the frozen attitudes and rigid postures of fear, sus-  picion and distrust, and towards the development of  world understanding, one of the main objectives of  this great Organization. Not only the Soviet Union,  but other countries have also joined, Byelorussia,  Ukraine, Hungary, Czechoslovakia, Poland, who  were with us for a time, then left us, and now return  to the fold like sheep that have strayed, It is myhope  that their presence here, too, will help to promote  world understanding. I am informed of certain tech-  nical difficulties, but, without prejudging the issue,  without committing the Administrative Commission  to any decision, 1 am just throwing out a suggestion  to you - as a strictly temporary measure - that they  may be allowed full voting rights. 1 shall be making  a siatement on that question as soon as time permits,
(5) Tire world, once divided by oceans and continents,  is today physically united, but there is still suspicion  and misunderstanding. It is essential for us not to  live apart but to live together, understanding each
1-1 PLENAR*  other, knowing each other's fears and anxieties. as-  pirations and thoughts. We have all subscribeu to  the United Nations Charter - that Charter which af-  firms faith in fundamental human rights and in the  dignity and worth of the human person. Political  freedom and economic justice are two sides of de-  mocracy; both are essential. We should lay stress  on improvement of the economic conditions of people  as well as on liberty and independence. No society  can claim to be democratic if it does not permit poli-  tical liberty, freedom of conscience, a free choice  between parties, and provide opportunities for peace-  ful and orderly changes of government, No true de-  mocracy can remain satisfied merely with conditions  which safeguard political liberty and freedom of the  individual, It must secure the economic conditions  which will justifv tins faitn ir the dignity of the hu-  man person If our professions about the dignity of  the individual are to be taken seriously, we must do  away wich all sorts of discriminatory practices, we  must encourage the independence movements 1n colo-  nial territories, recognize that poverty in any part  uf the world constitutes a danger to prosperity in any  other part. We must not acclaim racial extermina-  tion, enslavement or segregation, but work for racial  harmony. In large parts of the world there are  millions of people, who, on account of their race,  have no share in the civilization around them. In this  Organization we must try to look within ourselves, to  find out our insufficiencies, remedy them and get to-  gether in a spirit of humility and understanding.
(6) The international situation is somewhat better,  The difficulties are many, the hazards great, but  there 1s hope in the air. We find that the situation  has to some extent improved. In Korea the war has  stopped, although anxiety is felt that th: : € is as yet  no unification of Korea. It must be brought about on  the basis of free elections, The Indo-China war has  ceased and it is the general hope that the three States  of Laos, Cambodia and Viet-Nam may become inde-  pendent and answerable to themselves, Outside in-  terference with these States may spoil the chances  of a democratic settlement, The Anglo-Egyptian  agreement over Suez is a considerable step towards  peace in the Middle East. There are many colonial  problems still unsolved, though a marked advance  is noticeable in regard to the future of the Gold Coast,  Nigeria, Tunisia and Greenland. I may be pardoned  here for referring to a small colonial problem, the  matter of the French possessions in India, It has  been solved in a peaceful, demccratic, civilized way.  I should like to congratulate the Government and the  people of France and their great Prime Minister,  who has been acting with rare courage, vision and  foresight in international questions. The France that  gave the world the ideals of liberty, equality and fra-  ternity can do no other.
(7) The ticklish problem of Trieste has also been  settled with the goodwill of the powers concerned.  The question of the Saar is, I hope, nearing solution.  Even in regard to disarmament, we see signs of re-  vived hope, While we are glad that such outstanding  questions are being tackled, it is unfortunate that in  many of these matters the United Nations has been  bypassed. At the Geneva Conference on Indo-China,  we bad discussions with the People's Government of  China, and their attitude was co-operative and helpful,  - 36 -     MEETINGS  yet that Government is still unrepresented in the  United Nations, so that the Indo-China Conference  had to be held outside the framework of the United  Nations, thereby weakening the Organization itself,
(8) In spite of all its defects, the United Nations is a  symbol of that hope of unity which man has sought for  centuries, The spark of the spirit of man compelled  its creation, Science and mechanical ingenuity have  been busy for more than four centuries in knitting to-  gether the whole habitable surface of the planet by a  system of communications, Every form of human  intercourse is now rendered possible, The political  unification of society is inevitable, The present sys-  tem of a world broken up into 60 or 70 national States  is an anachronism in an age which has discovered the  technique of flying and the manufacture of the atom  bomb. Will unification come about by force, which  in this atomic age will mean not only material but  moral devastation, .or will it be by the alternative  method to war, by voluntary co-operation without the  use of violence and coercion? The United Nations  asks us to learn to live in a world community and not  die of chauvinistic nationalism. We may be French,  we may be German, we may be American, we may be  Russian, but we are essentially human beings. Let  us not overlook that fundamental fact,
(9) The weakness of the United Nations is mankind's  weakness, If it is unable to function better it is rot  because there is anything wrong with the Organization,  but because we members who operate it are lacking  in moral capacity, We still believe in nationalism,  though we aspire to be members of the international  community, Powerful nations in the world are at-  tempting to use the United Nations and its Agencies  as instruments of their national policies, If we are  to develop an international outlook, it is essential that  member nations should, at any rate in their relations  with international organizations, subordinate national  considerations to international obligations. This they  do not always do.
(10) 1 am afraid that, in our attempts to defend de-  mocracy, we are throwing away the content of demo-  cracy. Governments are becoming more centralized,  more thoroughgoing in their administration, more co-  ercive towards their citizens, more effective intheir  control of thought and opinion, even in democratic  States, Oliver Wendell Holmes, a great liberal, who  was Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the  United States of America, once wrote that "freedom  of speech is freedom for the thought we hate". There  is no freedom in allowing freedom to express only  what we desire, If we allow freedom to people who  express undesirable, distasteful thoughts, then it is  that we are the advocates of freedom, To attempt  to compe! persons to believe and live as we do is not  a feature of democracy and has been a perpetual  source of strife in the world. Evangelism in politics,  in business, in religion will have to be restrained if  we are to live together in this world, We should not  punish people for holding opinions which are unpopu-  lar or disagreeable, we can punish them only if they  commit offences or violate the iaws of the land. We  must assume people to be innocent unless they are  proved to be guilty, and not hold them to be guilty un-  til they prove themselves to be innocent, If the drift  to totalitarianism in democracies continues, there  will be nothing left for democracies to defend.   PLENARY
(11) The programme and the budget of Unesco will  come up for detailed consideration in these three or  four weeks, I do not wish to anticipate or prejudge  your discussions and decisions, In considering ‘he  different items on the agenda, the main objective of  Unesco - education for living in a world community  with all that it means by way of funda.nental educa-  tion, international understanding and co-operation,  economic development, improvement of health and  community development - will have to be borne in  mind.
(12) The gross result of the Second World War was  not the defeat of the Axis powers - they have all been  regaining their former positions and we welcome it -  the real result of the Second World War was the rise  of Asia and Africa, A large number of countries in  the East have gained their independence - Pakistan,  India, Burma, Indonesia, Ceylon and others. The  outstanding fact about these countries is mass misery,  and the redeeming feature is their anxiety to escape  from the backward conditions in which they have  found themselves, What they are attempting to do is  to raise their standards, standards of literacy, stan-  dards of health and sanitation, and it is here that  Unesco is doing a good deal of work, If we help to  remove destitution and despair, we better safeguard  the interests of peace. It is the one way of demon -  strating that we are members one of another.
(13) This Organization has been concerned with the  spread of fundamental education. It regarded illite-  racy as the main disease from which miilions of  people in the world suffer, We are using all the  media of mass communication for the spread of li-  teracy, But fundamental education is not to be cori-  fused merely with the acquisition of information and  skill, We have to impart scientific habits of mind.  The immense impact of mass media upon our lives  encourages passivity, acquiescence and conformity.  Young minds are exposed to surface objectivity, to  slogans and catchwords, to the acceptance and ela-  boration of the obvious. We all eat, think, hear ard  read substantially the same things, We are develop-  ing stereotyped attitudes of mind. We are resisting  independent thought, individual creativeness or con-  templation. But those are the ways by which we can  best contribute to human welfare, All the finest  work of scientific genius, of metaphysical insight, is  done in those few moments when individuals withdraw  into themselves and try to contemplate and meditate,  In those few moments they are able to glimpse vi-  sions of beauty and truth, bring them to earth, clothe  them with emotion, carve them into words, cast  them into philosophies, These great achievements  are the deeds of men and women who have known  how to resist the current of the crowd and have been  able to sit alone and in silence and reflect for them-  selves, If these mass media are going to make our  minds automata, if they are going to destroy our  spirit, then they are the gravest of dangers. Essen-  tial as they are, educators must be awake to the dis-  advantages of these things. Do not imagine for a  moment that I am trying to discourage the use of  mass media, | am merely warning against their  abuse, which reduces human individuals to robots.  That must be prevented.
(14) The most essential need of our age is the spirit  of religion, religion not in the narrow sense of the    MEETINGS 11-1  term but in its widest sense. Think tru*h, live love -  these constitute the essence of religion. The pursuit  of money and pleasure, technological civilization, is  killing the power of mind and spirit. T.S. Eliot said  that wiien we come to die, the wind will blow over the  ruins of our homes saying:  "Here were decent godless people;  Their only monument the asphalt road  And a thousand lost golf balls,"  Tha. would be the comment on this civilization if it  should become merely technological and cease to be  moral,
(15) We in Unesco should base fundamental educa-  tion, for youth and adults, for all of us, upon the twin  principles of truth and love. Reverence for every  form of life should be created in the minds and hearts  of the young. Education, to be complete, must be  humane, it must include not only the training of the  intellect but the refinement of the heart and the dis-  cipline of the spirit.
(16) We live today in a state of cold war, that is,  armed fear. It is not peace that we enjoy, but a pre-  carious equilibrium in which dissension is prevented  from declaring itself only by mutual fear. It is not a  state of order, there is no inner tranquillity. We  have to build up loyalty to the world community in  men's hearts and minds, Only then shall we have a  human socièty bound by lcve of one and the same end;  then the outward order will be the spontaneous ex-  pression of an inward peace. To build that peace in  the minds of men 1s our task,
(17) Wealth and power depart from nations as they  depart from individuals, No nation in the werld can  maintain its primacy in perpetuity, What counts 1s  our moral contribution to human welfare. Let us  therefore try to develop the qualities of cnarity in  judgment and compassion for those who suffer. If  we adopt such an approach, the tensions c’ the world  will relax rapidly. There is much misunderstanding  but we can build peace even on the basis of mis-  understanding. Once peace is built, misunderstand-  ing will diminish, Let us work, therefore, with hu-  manity for our goal. In the words of St, Paul: "If it  be possible, so far as it depends on you, live in  peace with everyone",
(18) I have great pleasure in declaring open the  eighth session of the General Conference of Unesco.  ADDRESSES OF WELCOME BY REPRESENTATIVES OF THE  GOVERNMENT OF URUGUAY
(19) Mr. MARTINEZ TRUEBA (President of the  National Council of Administration of Uruguay)  (Translation from the Spanish): Mr. President, de-  legates, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Na-  tional Council of Administration, | have much pleasure  in bidding you most heartily welcome,
(20) The holding of the eighth session of Unesco's  General Conference in Montevideo is an event which  confers an honour on us and gives us great satisfac-  tion. You are in a country which is striving for the  achievement of the same 1deals that inspired the  creation of your worldwide Organization, in which  the hopes of all the peoples are centred. You will be  -37 -   n-1 PLENARY  conducting your debates in a moral climate in which  it cannot but be pleasant for you to live and work - a  climate in which all currents of ideas can flow  without impediment, a climate of freedom and  understanding, favourable to the loftiest aspirations  of the mind and spirit.
(21) We are persuaded that, of all the bodies set up  to forge permanent bonds of peace and solidarity be-  tween men, yours is the one which has the greatest  opportunities of helping towards the attainment of  those ends, We think so in the first place because  the abundant information regularly disseminated by  Unesco on everything affecting man as a moral being,  master of his own fate, and as a member of society,  serves to work on men's minds and to build there the  ""defences of peace", as your Constitution describes  them, We think so secondly because this activity of  yours will have its effect on every man, by ennobling  his life, and on every nation by exalting the worth of  democracy as a way of life for the people and as a  political structure for States.
(22) Our faith in Unesco's work arises from the fact  that we have curselves made the education and culture  of the masses the cornerstone of our institutions and  the bulwark and buckler of our freedom. And what  we have felt to be good and effective for ourselves,  we also believe to be good and effective for the other  peoples of the world.
(23) The conviction that has guided us has been that  all the main differences that divide men, whether  political, social or economic, invariably have at  their roots a cultural problem and that, if we apply  ourselves to solving that problem, the others will be  more easily settled. The same idea 1s unmistakably  implied in Unesco's Corstitution, in its advocacy of  the "wide diffusion of culture and the education of  humanity for justice and liberty and peace,"
(24) Our hearts are with you in your work and we  are ready at all times to do what little we can for  you, who do so much for us and all the world. The  people and Government of Uruguay assent withoutre-  serve to the principles which govern your activities,  and we have been at pains to serve them both at  home and internationally, Our support of this con-  ference furnishes full proof of our sympathy with  Unesco's work and ideals,
(25) Unesco has done much already to develop and  improve educational methods. Through its seminars  and the expert missions assisting education in many  lands, it is giving the work of leading teachers and  educators a wider currency. It is doing much, too,  to spread a knowledge of art and science among the  masses, But what it can do, and what we need it to  do, is much more still.
(26) This is particularly true in regard to science.  If science is to contribute chiefly to the happiness  and well-being of mankind and not to its suffering  .and destruction, there is an urgent need to convert  it into a bond of understanding and concord, by  spreading a knowledge of its advances as widely as  possible. From this point of view, Unesco's support  of various centres throughout the world for the dis-  semination of science can fairly be applauded; but  where its active co-operation is chiefly to be desired  is in connexion with research institutes,
(27) Ladies and gentlemen, the watchword of theday  for those who, like yourselves, have embarked on  - 38 -     MEETINGS  that noblest of entcrprises, the pursuit of freedom, is  "persevere", Persevere until the day dawns when, in  Bertrand Russell's striking words, "the desire for  mastery shall be replaced by equality, the desire for  victory by justice, aggressive ignorance by intelli-  gence, competition by co-operation, .. to the point  when we learn to think of the human race as a single  family".
(28) On behalf of the Government of this Republic, 1  extend to you our warmest wishes for the success of  your work, thc ultimate aim of which is to build up  the defences of peace by strengthening the solidarity  and mutual understanding of mankind.
(30) Mr. ZAVALA MUNIZ (Minister of Education  and Social Welfare of Uruguay) (Translation from the  Spanish): Mr. President, delegates, ladies and gen-  tlemen, in bidding you welcome to this country and at  the commencement of our labours, allow me to say  that here you are at home, not only because,of the  warmth with which the Government and people of  Uruguay welcome you but above all because the  warmth of our welcome derives from the very growth  through the ages of our nation's spirit. The building  in which you are assembled is the Palace of the Laws,  a palace which we built to show to our own people and  to the men of other lands that here the only sovereign  who rules over our will is the law-maker who re-  presents, guides and determines that will,
(31) We have received you, then, in the sovereign  seat of our nation and we have received you to the  sound of our youth chanting the Canticle to Hope, which  is the canticle of our country. In this small territory  of ours, with our frontiers open to men from all over  the world who come here to work with us in the cause  of human progress, with our minds open to ideas  from all over the world which contribute to our intel-  lectual and spiritual advancement, we welcome you  simply but warmly, confident that we are worthy of  your presence in our midst because here you will find  the habit nf freedom that is necessary for a meeting  of uus kind, freedom which we are striving to make  secure for ever because for us the ultimate objective  of all policy, of all government action, is man him-  self, in the full development of his moral qualities,  Our whole activity is and ever has been directed to  the protection of man from the political despotism  which degrades his human dignity and from the eco-  nomic tyrannies under which his just claims and as-  pirations can never find really free expression, We  have fought and are fighting to defend man from the  tyranny of ignorance, since it would avail nothing to  have satisfied his material needs if we forbade him  dreams of new adventures for mankind. And this  brotherhood which has been our desire for ourselves  is also our desire for the whole world, We make no  distinctions of race or people; we are a country to  which immigrants from all over the world have come,  to enrich our lanu 2; *h=!7 sabour and our minds by  their ideas.
(32) No man is a foreigner here who loves freedom  and will work with us to build our future; though our  tongues may differ, our minds are one.
(33) It is because of that attitude, ladies and gentle-  men, that I am able to repeat with conviction, as   PLENAR  Uruguay's Minister of Education, that here you are  at home, in an atniosphere supremely conducive to  free consideration and discussion,
(34) The PRESIDENT: I call upon Dr. Armando  Malet,
(35) Mr. MALET (Mayor of Montevideo) (Transla-  tion from the Spanish}: Mr. President, delegates,  ladies and gentlemen, the city of Montevideo and our  whole country are conscious of the honour that has  been conferred upon them by the choice of Montevi-  deo as the place of this Conference.
(36) Neither the business of daily life, nor the re-  current group effervescence characteristic of the  period before an election, such as that which will  take place in our country in a few days' time, have  been able in any way to detract from the significance  of the fact - exceptional in the life of this city - that  men and “omen from the most distant and diverse  corners of the world should have come here at  Unesco's request to discuss questions relating to  education, science and culture. To discuss them,  moreover, in world 1erms but in awareness of the  significance of national cultures and of what they can  contribute and in full realization of the fact that those  cultures neither can nor should exist as separate and  over closely welded entities.
(37) The question was once asked: "Can national  culture exist solely as a monolithic entity embracing  the whole nation, without heretics in its midst or, if  heretics there are, without regard for them? And  the questioner answered himself: "Without heretics,  there is no culture“. Who said that and where? It  was a Spaniard, Don Miguel de Unamuno, and the  place was Madrid, at a session of the Permanent  Committee of Arts and Letters of the League of Na-  tions, held there between 3 and 7 May 1933. That  committee must, 1 suppose, have been one of the  earlier institutions that were in people's minds when  Unesco was set up.
(38) In the meetings now before us, we all have  something to say, whether we come from underde-  veloped or from very advanced countries, whatever  the standard of life of our people. And, however  vai ied and disparate the forms of culture which may  here be represented, we all know that truth, beauty  and justice inevitably convey an awareness of the  oneness of the world - an awareness which gathers  strength and becomes more widespread as the era of  the primitive community gives place to a cultural  awakening whereby man is enabled to raise his whole  being to a higher level, to refine his sensibilities, to  live by reason and to acquire the sense of justice that  is essertial if society is to survive, But all that is  not ens ugh,
(39) At the Madrid meeting in 1933, of which I was  spe'.king a few moments ago, another Spaniard, also  a philosopher, who was then lecturing in a Monte-  video faculty, argued that the suppression of free-  dom could never serve to improve culture or to set  it in the right direction. That philosopher was  Manuel Garcia Morente, He went on: "There are  people in our day who think that, because we are not  quite clear what to do with freedom, it is better to  abolish it. That is not only useless; it is also ab-  solutely impossible. Once man, in the process of  y M     - 39 -  EETINGS 11-1  his evolution has reached a certain level, it 18 mad-  ness to imagine that he will sink back from that level,  Certain phases in the evolutionary process may perhaps  be looked upon as reversions to a lower standard,  but they are so in appearance only, To my mind,  evolution is really more like a spiral, on which man  is always turning round the same perpendicular, but  each time, of course, at a F’yher level,  “I consider it absolutely impossible to maintain  that the upsurges of dictatorship, harsh or mild,  which have set limits to i.'dividual freedom, can  prove to be anything more than mere episodes...  It 15 as though we were to argue: ‘since it is dif-  ficult to live as free men, let us do away with  freedom'. That is easy enough to say, but diffi-  cult to do - so difficult that I am convinced that  the various attempts to suppress liberty which  have been made in our day can only endure very  briefly,"
(40) This, may I remind you, was said nearlytwenty-  five years ago, at a meeting not, perhaps, on so im-  pressive a scale as the present one, but where, as l  have already mentioned, Unamuno and Garcia Morente  were present, besides other eminent people such  as Jules Romains, Paul Valéry, J, B.S, Haldane,  Madame Curie Sklodowska, F, Orestano, Julio Dantas  and others,
(41) During that quarter century the world has lived  through hours, months and years of anguish and tra-  gedy. It saw the extinction of freedom under régimes  which came to power in different nations, and  witnessed later the revival of freedom which is  still proceeding,
(42) This very conference is a confirmation of the  words 1 have quoted from our Spanish philosopher,  and those words have a singularly fitting ring in this  land and city - living as they ever have in and for  freedom - and in this meeting of delegates, met like-  wise under the banner of freedom, to whom the city  of Montevideo, through my mouth, extends its  greetings,  STATEMENT BY TRE PRESIDENT ON ABREARS OF  CONTRIBUTIONS
(43) The PRFSIDENT: I have now to make a state-  ment on the question of arrears, According to  ArticlelV, sub-section 8(b) of the Constitution, the  righ’ to vote is made conditional upon the payment by  Member States of their financial contributions. Cer-  tain States whose contributions were in arrears were  advised of this fact by the Director-General in letters  despatched between 7 and 13 October of this year,  These States are: Bolivia, China, Czechoslovakia,  Cuba, Hungary and Poland. These States will be un-  able to vote during this session of the General Con-  ference because the amount of their arrears exceeds  the amount of the contributions due from them for the  current year and the immediately preceding financial  year.
(44) Paragraph 8(c), of Article IV declares, however,  that the General Conference may permit such Mem-  ber States to vote, if it is satisfied that the failure to  pay is due to conditions beyond their control, It is
11-1 PLENARY  therefore left to the delegations of the countries  concerned, if they think fit, to request the General  Conference to adopt this latter course, Requests should  be addressed tothe President of the General Conference,  who will transmit them to the General Committee,  The General Committee will decide which body  of the Conference shall examine these requests, I  should infcrm the Conference that such a request has  already been addressed to the Director-General by  the Head of the Chinese delegation by letter dated 23  October 1954 (document 8C/9). The Director-  General has also received communications from the  Governments of Hungary and Poland requesting  special treatment regarding the arrears of their  contributions (document 8C/ADM/8 (III) Add. 1 and 2).  SPEECH BY THE DELEGATE OF USSR
(45) Mr. STOLETOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) (English text supplied by the Soviet  delegation): Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, The  delegation of the Soviet Union deems it necessary, at  the very outset of the work of the eighth session of  the Unesco General Conference, to draw the attention  of the Conference delegates to the abnor mal situation  which has arisen in the matter of the representation  of the Chinese People's Republic in Unesco and  its organs.
(46) Can we really consider it a normal state of af-  fairs where the great People's Republic of China,  which has an ancient culture and which, along with  other Great Powers, plays an outstanding part in the  settlement of international problems, is so far not  represented in Unesco and where the seat of China's  lawful representatives is still occupied by persons  belonging to the Kuomintang Chieng Kai-shek group  with which the Chinese people has finished once and  for ali?
(47) The General Conference has met to discuss and  settle important questions of international co-opera-  tion in the field of education, science and culture.In  this connexion it cannot but be recognized that the  work of the Conference would yield the most success-  - 40 -     MEETINGS  ful results if the above-mentioned abnormal situation  were eliminated,
(48) It would be a good moment to point out that, in  the interval which has elapsed since the proclamation  in October 1949 of the Chinese People's Republic,  the Chinese people have achieved remarkable  successes in every sphere including also cultural  development; that, I have no doubt, is sufficiently  well known to the delegates to our Conference.
(49) A proper settlement of the question of China's  representation in Unesco would be in the interests of  peace-loving peoples and would be consonant withthe  principles and standards of international law, There  is no need to make special mention of the fact that  such a solution of this question would be a serious  contribution towards the development of international  co-operation in science, culture and education.
(50) In drawing the attention of the Conference tothe  abnormal situation which has arisen in that China's  lawful seat in Unesco is so far being occupied by  people who do not represent the great Chinese people,  the USSR delegation expresses the hope that the  General Conference will take appropriate measures  for a proper settlement of this question,
(51) The PRESIDENT: This is not a point of order,  All the same it will be discussed in the Credentials  Committee, and its report will come before the Con-  ference,  ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CREDENTIALS CONMITTEE
(52) We propose that the Credentials Committee con-  sist of the following States: Colombia, Egypt, France,  Indonesia, Philippines, United Kingdom, Uruguay,  United States of America, Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics. (Approved) The Credentials Committee  will meet in Room 6 immediately after the end of this  meeting,  The meeting rose at 12,40 p.m.