3 November 1954 at 3.45 p.m.  Chairman : Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Australia)  ITEM 1.2 OF THE AGENDA: PRELIMINARY CONSIDERATION  OF THE DRAFT PROGRAMME AND BUDGET FOR 1933-38,  BEFORE THE OPENING OF THE SESSION (continued)  DOCUMENT 8C/3, CHAPTER 1: EDUCATION (continued)
(1) Discussion was resumed on the projects pro-  posed by the Department of Education for the period
1955-56.  Paragraphs 238-244 - Emergency educational  assistance to Korea
(2) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  drew the attention of the Committee to the fact that,  as a result of the recommendations of the Unesco  mission to Korea to study educational reconstruction,  it was proposed to create three educational posts in  Korea. The first was that of educational adviser  having a D. 1 grade, the second, that of Director of  the Fundamental Education Centre, a post which had  already been filled on a temporary basis, and the  third was that of technical education officer, which  post would be filled in 1956. The educational advi-  ser would be administratively responsible to the  United Nations Korean Reconstruction Agency and  technically responsible to Unesco.
(3) There were no further comments on paragraphs
(4) The CHAIRMAN recalled that the Committee  had decided to postpone discussion of project 1, 31  until the following day and he proposed continuing  the discussion with project 1.32.  Paragraphs 313-336
(5) No comments,  Paragraphs 337-339
(6) No comments,  Paragraphs 340-350
(7) The CHAIRMAN drew the attention of the Com-  mittee to Annex Il of document 8C/PRG/ 20, which  contained a letter from the Director-General of  ILO to the Director-General of Unesco on the sub-  ject of collaboration with Unesco in the matter of  technical aid to Member States, and he asked Mr,  Elvin if he could give the Committee any clarifi-  cation on this point,
(8) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  - 664 -     said that his Department had taken for granted  that it would have the collaboration of ILO on this  project and had therefore not mentioned such col-  laboration specifically in document 8C/5.  {9) There were no comments on paragraphs
(10) The CHAIRMAN drew the attention of the  Committee to the letter from the Secretary-  General of the United Nations contained in docu-  ment 8C/PRG/20 and asked Mr. Elvin whether  Unesco had collaborated with the United Nations  in its youth work.
(11) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa-  tion) replied that, although there had been no speci-  fic collaboration with the United Nations in this  field, there had been contacts between the two  organizations, and the Department of Education  would be happy to extend collaboration at any time.
(12) There were no comments on paragraphs
(13) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa-  tion) said that it had been difficult in the past to  focus the work on youth activities. The frame-  work for the proposed Associated Youth Enter-  prises would be similar to that of the Associated  Projects Scherne in the field of fundamental edu-  cation. Members of the Associated Youth Enter-  prises would be encouraged to carry out work  which was of interest to themselves and to Unesco  and through them it was hoped to achieve some  unity in the field of youth activities.
(14) Mr. FREY (German Federal Republic)  doubted whether the Associated Youth Enterprises  would yield practical results and feared that it  might only produce a crop of officials.
(15) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa-  tion) replied that an attempt would be made to see  that the work of the Associated Youth Enterprises  did not overlap with work done by other organiza-  tions and would be of some practical use. He  emphasized the experimental nature of the pro-  grammes contemplated (paragraph 376).
(16) There were no further comments on para-  graphs 372-384,   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VvI-5  Paragraphs 385-395
(17) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  explained that paragraphs 385-395 were concerned  only with Unesco's liaison with the Unesco Youth  Institute at Gauting in Germany.
(18) Mr. BOW (Canada) said that, although it might  not be appropriate to say so at this stage of the dis-  cussion, he would like the Committee to know that,  after careful study of all available information, his  Government had grave misgivings about the value,  in relation to the whole programme of Unesco, of  the three Unesco Institutes in Germany, particularly  in the case of the Institute for Social Sciences in  Cologne. He agreed that the work done by these  institutes was important and interesting but wondered  whether it was of sufficient urgency to justify expend-  iture by Unesco when its budget was so limited.
(19) In reply to a question from Mr. ELVIN (Direc-  tor, Department of Education) whether Mr. Bow's  remarks were for general discussion, the CHAIR-  MAN said that, as the meeting was informal, the  Coramittee could discuss them.
(20) Mr. BOW (Canada) pointed cut that the only  proposal his Government had to make in regard to  the three institutes was that they should be given a  lower priority in Unesco's programme than other  projects.
(21) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) said that, before  he could judge about priority, he would require more  information,
(22) Mr, ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  gave a brief outline of the history of the three insti-  tutes. They were the outcome of a resolution passed  by the fifth session of the General Conference of  Unesco, which had been inspired by the thought that,  in the process of re-educating Germany, the results  of setting up such institutes in that country would be  more fruitful than if they were set up elsewhere,  As Western Germany was then occupied by the forces  of three other countries, it had been thought advisable  to set up the institutes in three different towns. The  three institutes had had varied degrees of success,  The Hamburg Institute had been particularly fortu-  nate and soon became a centre for educational  contacts, particularly for Europe and North America.  The Youth Institute had been less fortunate and the  question whether continued support should be given  to it had been raised by the Executive Board, which  had appointed a committee of investigation. This  committee had reported its feeling that the Youth  Institute was a worth-while project and should be  allowed to continue for the immediate future. It  had continued in close collaboration with the Depart-  ment of Education and had established itself in a  suitable building, He felt that it would be bad to  abandon such an excellent organization, especially  as it was now on its feet and did not duplicate the  work being done by the Youth Section of Unesco's  Department of Education. He felt that the question  of future priority would have to be decided but  warned the Committee that, if the project  - 665 -     were abundoned, Unesco would lose prestige.
(23) With regard to the financial aspect, there  had been, in previous years, no contribution from  Unesco's normal budget. One P. 4 and one P,1  official and a secretary had been employed to help  raise money for the institutes but this was no  longer the case. The institutes could carry on if  Unesco provided one-third of their total budget.
(24) In answer to a question from Mr. BOW(Canada)  why Unesco's support had been withdrawn, Mr.  EL VIN said that it had not been completely with-  drawn, In the past surplus funds from the United  States and French occupational authorities had been  available for the institutes but they were no longer  so. An effort had been made to replace those  sources (8C/PRG/19), but so far contributions had  not been sufficient,
(25) Mr. LEE (United States of America) said that  his views corresponded to those of Mr. Elvin. The  National Commission of the United States of America  had made enquiries and felt that, as the institutes  were so young, it would be a pity to withdraw  support from them. It thought, however, that it  would be desirable to evaluate the performance of  the institutes so that, at the next session of the  General Conference, consideration could be given  to a means of gradual withdrawal by Unesco. The  American Government wished to see the international  character of the institutes maintained.
(26) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa-  tion) reminded the Committee that a substantial  contribution to the institutes was made by the  German Federal Republic. He doubted, however,  whether the institutes could continue without a  contribution from Unesco. In addition, if Unesco  support were withdrawn, it would be more difficult  to collect funds because it would be thought that  Unesco did not think the projects deserving. The  General Conference would have to decide whether  it wanted the institutes to continue, whether it  wanted to withdraw its support gradually or whether  it thought highly enough of them to continue giving  them its support.
(27) Mr. LEE (United States of America) thought  that the Committee would not want to make a clear-  cut decision without more information from the  Secretariat. He was not prepared to ask questions  because he was not in a position to make an evalu-  ation at the moment,
(28) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  said that the Secretariat had already made such  an evaluation and, on that basis, had drawn up a  proposal which it considered just and reasonable.  The Director-General had proposed allotting  $32,000 a year to each of the Institutes because  he thought they deserved it. The previous Septem-  ber, he had sent a member of the Secretariat to  see on the spot how the Youth Institute, which was  the one that had aroused most doubt, was working.  The Director-General himself had also been to  Germany, where he had visited the three institutes  and obtained additional information from the German   VI-5 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  authorities. From those enquiries, he had concluded  that the Institutes deserved support to the extent of  $32, 000 a year each - representing about a third of  their total budget. The Secretariat was at the dis-  posal of the Committee if fuller information were  needed about any special points relating to the work  of the Institutes,
(29) Mr. FREY (German Federal Republic)  stressed that the Unesco Institutes in Germany were  not German institutes, The German Federal Repub-  lic had also doubts about the institutes, especially  in regard to personnel, but had decided that, as  they were research institutes, it would be necessary  to give them five or six years to show whether they  were to be really worth while. There was a real  need for the work done by the Youth Institute on a  world basis and not only in Germany. The Institute  was international but not sufficiently so and required  an international staff, The German Federal Repub-  lic was concerned with international development of  the institutes and would require international help.  There would never be overlapping between the work  done by the institutes and Unesco's work.
(30) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) asked whether  it would not be wise at this stage to hear what Mrs.  Myrdal had to say about the Unesco Institute for  Social Sciences.
(31) The CHAIRMAN agreed.
(32) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of  Social Sciences} pointed out that it took time to lay  a foundation for research in social sciences. The  Unesco Institute in Cologne was staffed mostly by  German personnel and had, up to now, made studies  of German problems. In the future, it was planned  to make comparative studies in the countries border-  ing on Germany. A seminar had been held on com-  parative studies in family sociology and had resulted  in the setting up of a preliminary international com-  mittee on family problems under.the chairmanship  of Professor Burgess of Chicago. The Institute  had arranged that the results of the seminar would  be brought to the attention of a large international  meeting to be organized by a non-governmental  organization. A further seminar was planned for,  January 1955, in which the Institutes of Hamburg  and Cologne were to collaborate.
(33) Although the activities of the Cologne Institute  were limited by its modest resources, Mrs. Myrdal  was convinced that it would find a place in the  international picture.
(34) Mr, CABOUAT (France) said that the French  organizations and government circles concerned,  which had followed the work of the Institute for  Social Sciences in Cologne, had found that it seemed  to be working in a watertight compartment and that  its activities were less international than those of  the other two Unesco Institutes in Germany. However,  on account of its geographical position, France was  called upon to take part in the work of the three  Institutes, particularly in that of the Youth Institute  at Gauting - the only international institution in  that field. The Frenrh delegation was therefore  - 656 -     strongly in favour of approving the proposed  appropriations for the Institutes for 1955 and 1956,
(35) The CHAIRMAN indicated that there were  two proposals before the Committee. The proposal  by the Canadian delegate was that a lower priority  should be accorded to the projects concerning the  Unesco Institutes in Germany than to other projects  in the Department's programme, and the proposal  by the United States delegate was that Unesco con-  tinue support of the Unesco Institutes in Germany  for the present, but should evaluate the usefulness  of their work before the next General Conference,  in order to decide whether or not Unesco should  continue its support of these Institutes.
(36) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) supported the  United States proposal. He was afraid that the  Canadian proposal, if adopted, might mean that the  Institutes would be abandoned if the General Con-  ference decided to cut the proposed budget.
(37) Mr. BOW (Canada) stressed that, in putting  forward the proposal that the Unesco Institutes in  Germany be accorded a lower priority than other  projects, the Canadian Government had no intention  that the projects should be completely cut off from  Unesco support.
(38) There being no support for the Canadian pro-  posal, the CHAIRMAN put the American proposal  to the vote. The motion was adopted.  Paragraphs 396-398
(38) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa-  tion) drew the attention of the Committee to docu-  ment 8C/PRG/12, which reiated to this section.  He did not think that it was particvlarly appropriate  for the Committee to discuss this project at length,  as. it was not intended to spend any money on it.  The Department of Education intended to invite  those Member States which had expressed interest  in the scheme, to make an analytical report on  the rôle of sport in education.
(40) Mr. CABOUAT (France) mentioned that the  French National Commission and the government  departments concerned were greatly interested in  Unesco's activities on behalf of sport in education,  He was sorry that the wording of the item in the  draft programme, as given in the document sub-  mitted to the Executive Board, had been changed  and proposed that the earlier wording should be  restored. The French National Commission was  in favour of the project mentioned in paragraph
397, in which three to five Member States were  tc be invited to undertake a comparative study of  the place of sport in the education of young people,  either in school or out of s:hool, and was quite  prepared to undertake such a study. France and  its overseas territories offered a wide field for  experiment and had a whole network of officials  responsible for organizing sports activities.  Mr. Cabouat said that the I'rench Government was  prepèred to make a financial contribution to a  study of the kind proposed. The French National   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET vi-5  Commission had prepared a memorandum, suggest-  ing that a series of activities without budgetary im-  plications be inciuded in the programme, such as  contacts with the Olympic Committee and interna-  tional sports federations which had shown interest  in Unesco's studies, the exchange of detailed infor-  mation among Member States about the place occu-  pied by spoit in those States, discussions on the  educational value of sport, and the publicizing of  basic principles. Provision might be made for the  inclusion in the programme of a whole series of  activities involving no additional expenditure. The  Secretariat might study those suggestions and make  appropriate proposals.
(41) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  said that the references mentioned by the French  delegate could be used in writing to Member States.  He accepted his other suggestions in general terms.
(42) Mr. LEE (United States of America) was in  favour of the French delegate's suggestion that  Unesco should ask for voluntary help from National  Commissions.
(43) There were no further comments on paragraphs
(44) There were no comments.
(45) The CHAIRMAN said that, subject to consider-  ation of the section on fundamental education, the  Committee had completed its study of the Chapter  on Education, He thanked Mr. Elvin for the help he  had given the Committee and suggesied, after con-  sultation with the Secretariat, that the Chapter on  Cultural Activities should be studied next.  CHAPTER 4: CULTURAL ACTIVITIES
(46) The CHAIRMAN welcomed Mr. Thomas  (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) and  asked him to introduce the Chapter,
(47) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural  Activities) introducing the draft programme of his  Department, pointed out that, like those of the other  Departments, it was divided into two sections, the  first containing established service activities of  universal interest which were necessary for the  development of international cultural co-operation  and, the second, an action programme of projects  designed to furnish advice and assistance to Member  States. He gave a rapid survey of both sections,  drawing attention to changes as compared with pre-  vious years. With regard to subventions to non-  governmental organizations, the only increase pro-  posed, which was for the International Council of  Museums, was a small one. On the other hand, the  Secretariat had sought, whenever possible, to con-  vert subventions into contracts, with the result that  the total amount of subventions for 1955-56 was  slightly lower than that for 1953-54, So far as bib-  liographical services were concerned, Mr. Thomas  drew the Committee's attention to an amendment to  - 667 -     paragraph 405, contained in document 8C/5  Corrigendum, relating to the anslationum,  The part of the programme dealing with activities  relating to international agreements already con-  cluded or on which preparatory work was being  done contained no new proposals. The first section  ended with a number of paragraphs relating to  the Unesco library.
(48) In the second section, dealing with the action  programme, efforts had been made to group cultu-  ral activities under three main headings, covering  ten major projects. The first heading was the  preservation of the cultural heritage of mankind  (artistic, historic and scientific records, monu-  ments and collections of universal interest) and the  programme provided for direct or indirect aid to  Member States for the preservation of that heritage,  direct aid being given by sending out expert  missions. The second main division, headed  ‘Culture and Education, made provision for cultural  activities forming a necessary develcpment and  extension of the educational programme at all  levels; it covered four main projects: humanistic  studies in culture and education, education through  the arts and the crafts, the development of libraries  for all stages of education and for research, and  the development of museums and their contribution  to education. A new project, which was likely to  make considerable progress, aimed at providing  help for Member States in preparing reading mat-  erials for people who had recently learnt to read  through fundamental education programmes; that  project was being planned in close co-operation with  other Unesco Departments: Education, Social  Sciences, Mass Communication and Natural  Sciences. Finally there was a third main heading -  Culture and International Understanding, under  which the proposed activities were designed to  develop exchanges between the cultures of East and  West and, especially since 1952, relations between  the Old World and the New. Provision was made  for artistic exchanges through reproductions,  travelling exhibitions, recordings of the music of  different peoples, etc. It was an enormous pro-  gramme, in full course of development, and con-  centrated mainly on cultural exchanges between  East and West. The project for the translation of  great books representative of the genius of the  various peoples included a series devoted to the  literatures of Asia. Mr. Thomas concluded by  saying that he had drawn attention particularly to  activities which marked a strengthening of the pro-  gramme compared with previous years.
(49) The CHAIRMAN thanked Mr. Thomas for his  statement and commented on the clarity with which  this Chapter had been presented. He asked for  comments of a general nature on the Chapter as a  whole.
(50) There being no general comments, a detailed  discussion was opened.  Paragraphs 23-26
(51) The CHAIRMAN, in his capacity as Australian  delegate, asked for an explanation of the provision  for staff travel in paragraph 26, pointing out   VI-5 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  that each project had also a provision for staff  travel.
(52) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultu-  ral Activities) pointed out that paragraph 26 refer-  red to the travel of the Director and Deputy Director  of the Department, whereas the provision made  under the individual projects was for travel by the  Department's specialists.
(53) The CHAIRMAN, speaking as the delegate of  Australia, expressed the opinion that the only cri-  terion should be whether the travel was absolutely  necessary for the carrying out of the projects.
(54) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Programme  and Budget) explained that travel costs appearing  under the heading of the Office of the Director of a  Department were to enable the Directors to carry  out missions covering a number of projects at the  same time.
(55) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) asked whether  the sum mentioned for staff travel and hospitality  in the draft budget for 1955-56 was responsiole for  the increase in the budget over that for 1953-54.
(56) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Programme  and Budget) replied that the increase was due rather  to the increase in staff costs caused by annual  increments.
(57) There were no further comments on paragraphs
(58) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) asked the  meaning of the first sentence in paragraph 31, Was  it intended that new organizations would not receive  subventions ?
(59) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultu-  ral Activities) explained that, for 1855 and 1956, it  was not proposed to grant subventions to any organi-  zations other than those on the list of subventions  for 1953 and 1954,
(60) Mr, SOMMERFELT (Norway) asked whether,  if new organizations were affiliated to already :  established organizations, they would also come  under this provision,
(61) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) asked for a  closer definition, as the present one did not make  it clear whether reference was only being made to  the period 1855-56 or whether it applied also to the  future.
(62) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  drew attention to an error in translation which  might be responsible for Mr. Cowell's remarks;  further organizations should be substituted for new  organizations.
(63) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) said that he  would be satisfied with the substitution of the word  further.  - 668 -
(64) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cul-  tural Activities) pointed out that the International  Society for Education through Art was already in  existence in 1953-54; it was included in paragraph
31 among the organizations to which a starting  subvention had been granted in 1953-54; it was  now proposed that contracts be concluded with  those organizations for 1855 and 1956, and inform-  ation about them was given in the appropriate para-  graphs of the programme.
(65) In answer to a question from Mr. AVIDOR  (Israel) whether all the organizations included in  document 8C/ADM/20 would be discussed by the  Administrative Commission, the CHAIRMAN said  that the Administrative Commission would only  review them in connexion with their past perform-  ance, The Committee could discuss them from the  point of view of granting subventions.
(66). Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) thought that there would’  be some contradiction if the Committee recom-  mended subventions for the period 1955-56 and  then the Administrative Commission decided that  a project should be discontinued on the basis of its  past record,
(67) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  mentioned that the Committee had received docu-  ments 8C/ADM/20 and 8C/ADM/ 21 and considered  them from a different point of view from that of the  Administrative Commission, which had to take  decisions on Unesco's general policy with regard  to such organizations, in the light of the last four  years' experience, whereas the Committee had to  satisfy itself that the Secretariat had duly observed  the existing directives and criteria.
(68) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) presumed that the Ad-  ministrative Commission discussed the principles  of continuing or undertaking a specific project and  wondered how the Committee could possibly discuss  the amounts of subventions before the principles  had been agreed upon.
(68) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  observed that Mr, Avidor's remark would be justi-  fied if the programme were entirely new, but, in  point of fact, there were scarcely any changes in  the new programme from previous years, and  those were generally in the nature of reductions.
(70) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) proposed that  the Committee in its report should suggest that  the proposed subvention for the International  Council for Philosophy and Humanistic Studies was  insufficient. The Council was still growing and  its affiliated associations were not all included in  the list contained in paragraph 32.
(71) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) associated  himself with the remarks made by Mr, Sommerfelt.
(72) It was agreed to make a recommendation to  the effect that the subvention proposed for the  International Council for Philosophy and Hum-  anistic Studies was insufficient.   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VI-§
(13) Mr. BOW (Canada) indicated that on the whole,  Canada supported the cultural programme.
(74) There were no further comments on paragraphs
(15) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural  Activities) mentioned that project 4.12 (co-ordination  of bibliographical services and exchanges of inform-  ation) marked a natural continuation and extension of  activities whose usefulness had already been proved.  The Co-ordinating Committee was going to assess  the value of Unesco's bibliographical activities and  give its views on the Organization's work in that  field; it was also concerned with the co-ordination  of national and international services, and many  States had already made considerable progress in  that respect,
(76) Mr. Thomas also drew the Committee's  attention to the corrigendum (paragraph 83) relating  to the Index Translationum published before the  war by the International Institute of Intellectual Co-  operation and revived by Unesco, which had under-  taken its annual publication with the co-operation of  Member States, At the outset, the Secretariat had  been doubtful, not about the value or form of the  Index, but about the cost of production; publishing  This work placed a considerable burden upon the  Secretariat and no more than 700 copies were sold  anmually. Questions about the need for continuing  the publication had been asked in the Executive  Board, and it had been decided to discontinue it.  The Committee on Bibliography had discussed the  question and had unanimously requested the Director-  General to reconsider that decision.
(77) The Director-General had investigated the  matter, with encouraging results: experts had point-  ed out that the sales level could be considered satis-  factory and that it would be a pity to discontinue the  publication row that an increased number of countries  figured in it, The Director-General left it to the  General Conference to decide whether the Index  Translationum should continue as a regular feature  of the programme or should be discontinued at the  end of 1955.
(78) The CHAIRMAN, referring to paragraph 14 of  document 8C/5 Add. 1, (submission of the Proposed  Programme and Budget for 1955-56 by the Executive  Board) asked whether the work connected with the  Index Transiationum was done under contract or  whether it was done by the Secretariat of Unesco.    {19) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultu-  ral Activities) replied that the work was done mainly  by the Secretariat, which consulted the National  Commissions and specialized services of Member  States. For certain countries, the information  obtained was inadequate and had to be supplemented  or revised by specialists, especially as concerned  languages which were not widely spoken.
(80) The CHAIRMAN asked for comments on pro-  ject 4.13  - 669 -     Paragraphs 84-117, Project 4.13
(81) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultu-  ral Activities) pointed out that the corrigendum en-  tailed no material change or budgetary implications;  the work plans relating to copyright were simply  presented in a more satisfactory form, in accord-  ance with the recommendations of the Provisional  Committee.
(82) There were no further comments on para-  graphs 84-117.  Paragraphs 118-121 - Project 4, 14
(83) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) asked why the amount  proposed for travel in paragraph 121 was so high.
(84) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultu-  ral Activities) said that the provision for travel was  to enable the Unesco librarian to attend meetings of  the co-ordinating committee of librarians of the  United Nations and Specialized Agencies.
(85) The CHAIRMAN, speaking as the delegate of  Austraiia, said that the Australian Government had  always doubted whether the amounts spent on travel  were justified and he asked whether business could  not be carried out just as satisfactorily by corres-  pondence.
(86) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultu-  ral Activities) answered that the bulk of the work  was done by correspordence; the librarians of the  United Nations and the Specialized Agencies met  once a year and, if the budget item in question were  deleted, the Unesco librarian would be the only one  absent from the meeting. The meetings were ex-  tremely useful and providzd an opportunity of  making detailed arrangements for the exchange of  documents.
(87) The CHAIRMAN replied that the contacts made  by trave! were obviously useful but he considered  that travel was a luxury when the budget was res-  tricted. le suggested that meetings could be held  perhaps once every two years instead of annually or,  alternativeiy, that only half the amount be spent on  travel for annual meetings.
(88) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultu-  ral Activities) replied that the figures were based  on actual expenditure in past years.
(89) Miss LAISE (United States of America) asked  whether it was logical to include the Unesco library  in the programme for the Department of Cultural  Activities. The library provided an administrative  service for the whole of Unesco and not only for  this Department.
(90) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  thought Miss Laise’s point a good one. Though  there were arguments for showing the appropriations  for the library under the Department dealing with  libraries, there were also arguments for showing   Vi-5 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  them under the administrative services. It was a  question of the administrative organization of the  Secretariat, which might, it seemed, be left to the  Director-General.  Paragraphs 122-147 - Project 4.2
(91) The CHAIRMAN asked for comments.
(92) Mr. THOM..; (Director, Department of Cultu-  ral Activities) mentioned that the project for an  international centre for the preservation and res-  toration of monuments and museum objects, with  which the Conference was already familiar, was  now being put into effect, The centre, which would  be at the service of all Member States, would come  into being in the near future. The Director-General  had taken the view that it would be well to begin  with organizations which were already in existence  and had proved their worth, and he had received  offers frorn the Governments of Belgium and Italy,
(93) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) drew attention  to paragraph 131, which included an amount of  $900 for contracts; he asked for information con-  cermng this sum.
(94) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultu-  ral Activities) reminded the meeting that the Exe-  cutive Board would have to give its vievs on the  location of the proposed centre. Legal regulations  would have to be drawn up to establish its interna-  tional status, and the Secretariat had felt that, for  that purpose, the advice of experts would be needed.  In reply to a query from the delegate of the United  Kingdom, Mr. Thomas explained that the budget  estimates were based on the remuneration of an  expert, for six weeks, at $150 a week, which was  the usual rate for an expert of that category.
(95) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) asked whether  the sum of $900 represented the cost of the prepa-  ration of draft agreements.
(96) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Depzrtment of Cultu-  ral Activities) remarked that the centre would be  an important international institution, comparable  in its own field with the International Laboratory  for Nuclear Research in Geneva, an international:  organization in whose work all countries wishing to  do so could take part.
(97) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) asked whether  the document could not be prepared by the Bureau  of Legal Affairs.
(98) Mr. MAHEU] (Assistant Director-General)  explained that, in the case of the European Council  for Nuclear Research, the work had been done by  the Bureau of Legal Affairs. He pointed out, how-  ever, that the Bureau was too small to include  specialists in every field. In the case in point, the  services of an expert with technical as well as legal  knowledge were required.
(95) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) thought that,  as a matter of principle, the cost was too high,  - 670 -
(100) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  repeated that the Bureau of Legal Affairs played a  part in all the Organization's Legal work; but its  staff of officials numbered only four and could not  have specialized knowledge in every field, whence  the need for calling in an outside expert. With  regard to the estimated cost, the Secretariat was,  of course, quite prepared to use the services of a  British expert if one could be secured at a lower  rate.
(101) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom), referring  to paragraph 132, asked whether use would be made  of the experience gained by members of the Egyptian  Excavation Fund.
(102) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cul-  tural Activities) replied that it would. The Secret-  ariat had taken advice and, by a decision of the  Executive Board, a mission had been sent to Egypt  to make a detailed study in preparation for the  missions that were to be organized in 1955 and 1958,  The project would not be begun unt! a very careful  preparatory investigation had been completed.  Paragraphs 148-171 - Project 4. 31
(103) Mr. JUNANKAR (India), referring to para-  graph 151, asked whether it was the intention of  Unesco to consult oriental countries as to which  orientalists were to undertake this work, The  normal procedure would be to confide in the Mem-  bar States of areas in which it was proposed to work.
(104) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cul-  tural Activities) pointed out that the project was  stil! at a very early stage. Unesco had begun by  asking ICPHS for advice; the Council had set up a  working party consisting of representatives of the  International Union of Orientalists and the Inter-  national Federation of Societies for Classical  Studies, which had drawn up a questionnaire to be  sent out to all the countries concerned.
(105) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) proposed  that projects A, B and C in paragraphs 153-164  should be given a very low priority. He was of the  opinion that they were not of sufficient importance  at the present time,
(106) Mr. BOW (Canada) supported the United  Kingdom proposal. He did not mean that the pro-  jects were not good in thernselves, but supported  the allocation of a low priority.
(107) Mr. CABOUAT (France) could not support  the proposals made by the United Kingdom delega-  tion. The projects in question were a central part  of cultural activities and the French delegation  proposed to submit a draft resolution requesting  the Director-General to encourage experiments in  educational television, which, like broadcasting,  was proving a most effective means of spreading  ideas and techniques, especially in rural areas.  He was therefore in favour of giving a high prior-  ity to the project mentioned in paragraph 161  of the programme,   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON
(108) Mr. LEE (Unued States of America) was 1n  favour of projects A, B and C having a low priority  especially in relation to project D, which, he felt,  should be given a high priority.
(109) The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the United  Kingdom proposal that the Committee should recom-  mend that projects A, B and C be allocated a low  priority in relation to the other projects in the pro-  gramme of the Department of Cultural Activities.
(110) The motion was adopted by 6 votes in favour,
4 against and 1 abstention.
(111) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  pointed out that, in view of the differences 1n prio-  rity recommended for projects A, B ard C, or the  ~ne hand, and project D, on the other, :t would be  necessary to amend resolution +. 31.
(112) The CHAIRMAN asked Mr. Maheu to draw  the attention of the Committee to this point later,  when the question of overall priorities was being  discussed, '  Paragrapiis 172-184 - Project 4,32
(113) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Departmen. of Cul-  tural Activities) mentioned that he had already said  in his general statement that project 4.32 was con-  tinuing. Seminars had been organized, including a  recent one in Japan, at which the problem of crafts,  which was of great importance in many countries of  the Far East, had been raised. It was probable that  the technical aid to Member States, for which pro-  vision was made in paragraphs 182, 183 and 184,  would be concerned with the crafts,
(114) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom), referring to  paragraph 172, expressed the opinion that the staff  costs were too high. In his opinion, a great deal  could be done at a lower cost.
(1153 Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cul-  tural Activities) remarked that two questions had  been raised: (1) cost and (2) staff. With regard  to the cost, it was proposed, 1n paragraphs 177 and
178, that contracts be concluded with two interna-  tional associations - the International Society for  Education through Art and the International Society  for Music Education - which had recently been es-  tablished as a sequel to conferences organized by  Unesco. Those contracts would take the place of  the starting subventions granted in the past, Much  of the expenditure provided for under paragraphs
182, 183 and 184 was to be devoted to technical aid  in the form of missions sent out in response to  specific requests.
(116) The staff had not been increased, and con-  sisted of a specialist in the teaching of the visual  arts, with an assistant who was an expert on the  - 671 -     PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VI-5  questions involved in the teaching of music, Prob-  ably, increasing demands would have to be met in  that field. It was a minimum programme with the  smallest possible staff. Mr. Thomas concludad  by saying that, 1f he had known the results of the  Tokyo Seminar in time, he would probably  have put forward a broader, and therefore  more costly, programme,
(117) Mr. LEE (United States of America) said  that the United States Government regarded pro-  Ject C (paragraphs 182-184) as having consider-  able significance and proposed that it should be  given a higher priority thun projects A and B  (paragraphs 177-181). In submitting this proposal,  he understood that the higher budgetary level was  not being taken into account.
(118) Mr. CABOUAT (France) observed that the  proposal of the Urited States delegation raised «  question of principle, since requests for higher  priorities for projects classed as special services  might entail cuts in projects classed among the  established service activities.
(119) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director -General)  did not think that the proposal of the United States  delegation ould mvan dropping anything else. It  was Indeed a pleasant innovation to accord positive  rather than negative priorities,
(120) Mr, CABOUAT (France) asked again whether  the propcsal of the United States delegation could  be accepted without 1tS having automatic reper-  cussions on the established service activities.
(121) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  left it to Mr. Thomas to answer that particular  case, but thought that, gene1ally speaking, Mr.  Cabouat's fears arose from pushing logic rather  too far. The established service activities formed  a sound enough foundation to support such increase  of techmcal aid without there being a need for in-  creased appropriations therefor. .
(122) Mr. CABOUAT (France), while acknowled-  ging that some f exibility was necessary, drew  attention to the n°ed for preserving a balance  between the two sections of the programme.
(123) Mr. LEE (United States of America) ex-  plained that, in making his proposal, he had only  wanted to emphasize one part of the programme.  He had not intended to suggest that the other twn  projects should be abandoned,
(124) As the United States proposal was not se-  conded, the CHAIRMAN ruled that the projects  up to paragraph 184 were to be considered as  having equal priority.  The meeting rose at 6.30 p.m.