GENERAL COMMITTEE I-89  NINTH MEETING  ! December 1954 at 9.15 a.m.  Chairman: Mr. MALAKUL (Thailand)
(1) The CHAIRMAN asked the Chairmen of Commis-  sions and Committees to report on the progress of  the work of the various organs of the Conference.
(2) Mr. BOURGEOIS said that the Programme and  Budget Commission had completed its study of the  Education chapter (item 8.4.1 of the agenda), and of  the Natural Sciences chapter (item 8. 4. 2) except for  one question which could not be decided until the  Secretariat supplied certain figures. He intended to  convene the Commission at 3 p.m. that same day, in  order to complete the study of the Natural Sciences  chapter and begin that of the Cultural Activities  chapter.
(3) Owing to the limited time available, it had been  necessary to restrict the number of speakers, and he  envisaged the possibility of having to curtail the  number of speakers on each question.
(4) Budget questions would be dealt with on the fol-  lowing Tuesday, 7 December, after the Advisory  Committee on Programme and Budget had first met  in order to adjust the programme to the budget ceiling  fixed by the Conference. He expected that the Advi-  sory Committee would find it difficult to meet all the  wishes of the Programme and Budget Commission.
(5) Mr. BEEBY said that the Administrative Com-  mission had begun to examine the proposed  amendments to the Staff Regulations; it was difficult  to estimate how long those discussions would last.  When they had been completed, the headquarters  question would be taken up. He was of opinion that,  after consideration of the Staff Reguli tions had been  completed, the Commission could conclude its work  in two meetings.
(8) Mr. AL-HANI stated that the Committee on  Reports of Member States had set up four working  parties on a linguistic basis, one for each language  of the General Conference; he read out the draft  resclution adopted by the Committee, appearing at  the end of document 8C/REP/!.
(7) Mr. AWAD said that the Legal Committee had  only one or two supplementary items left to examine,  and would need to meet once during the next few days  for that purpose.
(8) After consultation with the Secretariat, it was  decided that the meeting in question could be held the  following morning.
(8) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO said that he would pre-  sent the report of the Headquarters Committee tothe  Administrative Commission on Thursday afternoon.
(10) Mr. KABIR, referring to the coming election of  the Executive Board, stated that he would like to  receive directives from the General Committee with  regard to two problems which would confront the  Nominations Committee: that of the geographical  distribution of posts ana the procedure to be followed  for the election.
(11) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL felt that the General  Committee should send the Nominations Committee a  communication on the matter; the Secretariat could  inform the General Committee, at its meeting on  Friday, of the policy adopted in previous years with  regard to geographical distribution.
(12) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser), referring to the  method of election, pointed out that there was a con-  tradiction between Rule 89 of the Rules of Procedure  of the General Conference, permitting pluralities in  the case of a second vote, anc. Article IV of the Con-  stitution, according to which all decisions of the  General Conference required an absolute majority vote.  He felt that the Article of the Constitution should pre-  vail in the matter.
(13) Mr. KOTSCHNIG did not think that the problem  envisaged by the Legal Adviser would arise in  practice.
(14) Mr. BEEBY did not see how it would be possible  to resolve the geographical distribution problem at a  plenary meeting, unless the Nominations Committee  presented a list of the candidates which it proposed.
(15) Mr. KABIR said that that was why he had raised  the question. before the General Committee.
(16) Mr. BERNAL JIMENEZ felt that the General  Committee should take a decision on th application of  Rule 89. With regard to the method of election, the  principle so far adopted wes that each candidate had  to be proposed by one nr more delegations other than  his own; Mr. Bernal Jimenez asked whether it would  not be possible to group candidates by geographical  regions.
(17) Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS felt that the Legal  Committee should be consulted on the method of elec-  tion and that on the following Friday the General  Committee should examine the memorandum, to be  drawn up by the Secretariat, on the policy previously  adopted with regard to geographical distribution.
(18) Mr. HAGUIWARA raised the problem of the  validity of ballot papers containing fewer names than  - 257 -   n-10 GENERAL  there were persons to be elected to the Board. He  also asked whether candidates not proposed in plenary  session by the Nominations Committee would be  eligible.
(18) M'. RUIZ-GIMINEZ felt that the General Com-  mitte* should decide and give a lear indication  couce.‘ning the form of the election. With regard to  geogriphical distribution, he thought that the best  distribution possible should be aimed at but that no  mathen'atical formula could be established, That  was more a matter for the Nominations Committee  than for the General Committee, as all Member  States were represented on the former but not on the  latter.
(20) Mr. SHARIF, referring to geographical distri-  bution, also thought that it concerned the Nominations  Committee rather than the General Committee, and  that the former should be given all possible informa-  tion (e. g. ns to precedents), with a view to assisting  it in its work. As for the method of election, he felt  that the Legal Committee's opinion should be sought,  having regard to the problems which had been raised  by the Japanese delegate.
(21) Mr. KABIR recalled that it would be difficult to  consider in advance the best form of geographical  distribution, seeing that candidates could be nomi-  nated up to the last moment in the plenary meeting  itself. He expressed the hope that on the following  Friday ideas could be clarified and a practical  decision arrived at.    COMMITTEE
(22) Mr. AWAD asked what kind of report was  expected from the Legal Committee. H it were simply  a question of the legal aspect of the method of election,  he saw no great difficulty. In any case, he asked that  the request should be expressed in a concrete form,
(23) Mr. MIGONE, with a view to avoiding a debate  by the Nominations Committee, proposed an unafficial  meeting of heads af delegations in order to deal with  the matter of the Board's election.
(24) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) recalled that, for  Friday's meeting, the Secretariat would supply the  information for which it had been asked concerning  the question of geographicel distribution.
(25) The questions which the General Committee re-  ferred to the Legal Committee were as follows:  (a) Validity of ballot papers containing fewer names  than there were persons to be elected (Rule 14 of the  Rules for the Conduct of Elections by Secret Ballot);  (b) Eligibility of candidates not nominated by the  Nominations Committee (Rule 85, paragraph 2, of the  Rules of Procedure of the General Conference);  (c) Discrepancy between Article IV 8(a) of the  Constitution and Rule 89 of the Rules of Procedure of  the General Conference, with regard to the majority  required for election on a second ballot.  The meeting rose at 10 a.” .,  TENTH MEETING
3 December 1954 at 9 a.m.  Chairman: Mr. ZAVALA MUNIZ (Uruguay)  REPORTS OF THE CHAIRMEN OF CONNISSIONS AND  COMMETTEES
(1} Mr. BOURGEOIS said that the work of the Pro-  gramme and Budget Commission was proceeding  slowly. In fact, the Commission was at the moment  in a very difficult position and its only possible course  was to hold nigat meetings. Although the time ellowed  to speakers had been reduced to three minutes, the  study of Part II of the programme was still far from  finished, and the discussion of chapter 4 (Cultural  Activities) had not been completed. The situation was  due to the fact that the Commission had been unable  to begin its work until the provisional budget ceiling  had been adopted and the report on methods of finan-  cing the programme drawn up. A week had passed  at the beginning of the session without the Compr :s-  sion's being able to hold a meeting. Mr. Bou geois    stressed that appropriate measures should be taker  to enable the Commission in future to begin its wort  not later than three days after the opening of the Con-  ference. It was very unfortunate that it should be  necessary, as at present, to limit the time allowed  for speeches, when the purpose of delegates’ attending  the Conference was to make known their views. Every-  thing possible should be done to ensure that a similar  situation did not arise in the future.  {2) Mr. Bourgeois also mentioned tha! the Commis-  sion had unanimously adopted, by acclamation, a draft  resolution on peaceful co-operation, presented jointly  by the United States of America, Indis and Czechoslo-  vakia (document 8C/DR/115).
(3) Finally, he said, the Commission would like to  refer project 3. 4 (Social science and problems of  international understanding and tensions) back to the  Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget. The  - 258 -