IV-27 PROGRAMME AND BUDGET COMMISSION  TWENTY - SEVENTH MEETING
3 December 1954 at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman: Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland)  ITEM 8.4.5 OF REVISED AGENDA : MASS COMMUNICATION  (continued)
(1) The CHAIRMAN stated that, with the agreement  of the Soviet delegation, the discussion of the draft  resolution it had submitted regarding the Mass  Communication programme and budget (document  BC/DR/70) had been postponed until a later meeting.
(2) The Chairman had also informed the General  Committee that the Commission wished to refer  Project 3.4, under Social Sciences, to the Advisory  Committee or. Programme and Budget; the Chairman  of the Advisory Committee had demurred, pointing  out that his Committee had already discussed the  chapter, and that there was every likelihood that a  fresh examination would give much the same results  as the original one.  Project 5. 2 (continued)
(3) Mr. MAHEU (Assistani Direetor-General) felt  that to postpone the discussion of draft resolution
8C/DR/70 would automatically mean postponing that  of draft resolution 8C/DR/117. He asked whether the  Commission wished to await that discussion before  taking a decision on paragraphs 47 and 48 (Corr.)  relating to brochures and folders.
(4) The decision taken that morning on project (J)  "Film showings in Member States' was still not clear  to the Secretariat; the adoption of the recommenda -  tion of the Advisory Committee on Programme and  Budget to place the project in Category 3 (for  implementation once Categories 1 and 2 had been dealt  with) no longer had any meaning, for although the  Committee had proceeded on the basis of priorities,  not having been informed of the budget total, the  Commission was not in the same position. It had  fixed those totals, and for that reason could and  should take firm decisions, not relative or conditional  ones,
(5) From the Secretariat's point of view, the Com-  mission's vote would mean postponement of the  project until 1957-58,  (€ Mr. BENDER (Netherlands) expressed anxiety  over the quick decision which had been taken at the  morning's meeting in connexion with paragraph 72.  He had no wish to reopen the discussion of that item  but stressed his Government's view of the importance  of producing another film of the type of "World  Without End".
(7) Paragraph 72 proposed that a new film should be  completed by the end of 1956. If, as he understood  the morning's decision to mean, the production of the  film were postponed, there would be a gap of two  years during which there would be no film available    on the work of Unesco. In his view, such films were  of very great value in disseminating information about  Unesco and he was against any postponement.
(8) He concluded by asking whether the decision of the  Commissiondid, in fact, put that project inCategory 3.
(9) The view of the Secretariat was that the Com-  mission's decision would mean a postponement of the  project to another financial period.
(10) Mrs, PECSON (Executive Board) said that  Sections (I) and (J) {paragraphs 72-75) had been the  subject of lengthy discussion in the Executive Board.  The Board had studied reports from the Secretariat,  from Member States, from members of the Executive  Board and from the Director-General on all aspects  of the film "World without End". In addition, the  Chairman and one member of the Executive Board had  made an on-the-spot investigation of the film in action  in several countries. The consensus of opinion in the  Executive Board had been that the activity provided an  effective method of bringing together Member States  and of publicizing the work of Unesco. The Board had  received the impression that many Member States wera  anxious to show the film for purposes of spreading  information about Unesco and for achieving better in-  ternational understanding.
(11) Mr. BRANCA (Italy) thanked the Secretariat for  its explanation. He also had not been very clear about  the decision taken at that morning's meeting, for,  while the Conference was stressing the importance of  visual aids, the Commission wir more or less  systematically eliminating draft resolutions which  called for their development. The delegate asked the  Director-General to re-examine the budget for visual  aids and to broaden the scope of the programme  instead of merely increasing the staff. He proposed  taking up the project again and assigning it a high  priority, together with the project referred to in  paragraph 69: prints and negatives.
(12) The delegate of India protested, on a point of  order, against resuming the discussion of an item  already decided, and the CHAIRMAN explained in  reply that a delegate was always at liberty to propose  the reopening of a discussion, but that he did not  advise the Commission to follow the suggestion.
(13) Mr. HACQUAERT (Belgium) had not gathered  whether the foregoing discussion had referred to  paragraph 72 or to the report of the Advisory Com-  mittee on Programme and Budget. He thought the  previous vote should be reviewed, and also advocated  the project relating to the production of a film to  promote international understanding (paragraphs 72  - 454 -   PROGRAMME AND  and 73 of the Programme and Budget). If the question  were not discussed at the current meeting there would  still be time to return to it in plenary meeting,  although that was not very desirable, The Commis-  sion was very much better placed to hold such a  discussion than the General Conference.
(14) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commission)  pointed out that the curr znt discussion seemed to  refer to paragraphs 72 and 73, whereas all that the  Assistant Director-General had mentioned in his  question had been the section for film showings  (paragraphs 74 and 75).
(15) Mr. TERROU (France) remarked on the lack of  clarity in the debate and proposed taking a fresh  vote,
(16) The delegates of the United States of America,  South Africa and the United Kingdom stated that they  had voted on paragraphs 72-75 at the morning meet-  ing on the understanding that placing an item in  Category 3 was tantamount to suppression.
(17) The delegates of Iran and Italy supported the  remarks made by the French delegate.
(18) The Commission agreed by 18 votes in favour,
6 against and 9 abstentions, to suppress item (J)  concerning film showings in Member States  (paragraphs 74-75).
(19) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) felt  that the vote had ¢larified the position, and he could  now deal with the question as a whole.
(20) Referring to the comments of the Italian  delegate, he reminded the Commission that it had  wished a well-staffed and active section to be set up  in the Mass Communication Department to deal with  all visual aids, including the cinema. But the staff  depended on the programme, and yet the Commission  had just struck out all the projects relating to the  cinema. How could there be a staff without a  programme? And how could there be a visual aids  division if there were no film programme? The only  way out would seem to be to authorize the Secretariat  to submit new proposals on films, dealing with both  the programme and staffing. Mr. Maheu suggested  that a sum of $50, 000 for the two years be set aside  for that purpose.
(21) Mr. TERROU (France) asked the Secretariat to  let the Commission have technical details: if the  Commission saw them in writing, it could proceed to  examine them; there was no point in referring to the  Advisory Committee a project which could be  thoroughly discussed by the Commission with the  foremost specialists in Mass Communication present.
(22) Mr. HARDY (United States of America) hoped  that his vote would not be construed as an objection  to the use of films for Unesco work.
23) He would object to any suggestion that Unesco  should set up a film unit. In his opinion, conti acts  could be placed with commercial concerns which  would allow of much more economic production,
(24) The CHAIRMAN announced that the Assistant  BUDGET     COMMISSION IV-27  Director-General would submit the Secretariat's  proposals in 24 hours.
(25) The decision was approved.
(26) Paragraphs 78-80 were adopted without  discussion.  Project 5.3: Free flow of information (paragraphs
(27) Mr. DUERING (Sweden), referring to paragraphs
90-93, called attention to nroblems concerning the  international exchange of the negatives of educational  films.
(28) The international agreement covering the  exchange of educational material applied only to the  positives of such films, but greater use was made, in  the adaptation of films for various purposes, of  negatives. He drew the attention of the Secretariat  to that point.
(29) He further suggested that reference to the  difficulties arising in importing materials for art  exhibitions should be added to the recommendations  of the Advisory Committee concerning the import of  broadcasting and television equipment. The words:  "and an enquiry into the conditions governing the  temporary import of material for art exhibitions"  could be added to the Committee's report (document
8C/BUD/1).
(30) Mr. TERROU (France) remarked that project
5.3 marked the beginning of the section deal ng with  the second major function of the Department of Mass  Communication. The French delegation considered  the activities in question to be the most vital part of  the Mass Communication programme, for by them  pecple in every walk of life could be won over to the  work of Unesco. If Unesco could one day secure the  free flow of information on an international scale,  and set up clearing houses, the leaders of world  opinion would rally to the support of the Organization.
(31) Mr. SOLODOVNIKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) stated that his delegation attached great  importance to resolutions 5.31, 5,32 and 5. 33, while  reserving the right to make its position clear at a  later stage. The recommendations to Member States  relating to those resolutions had been formulated at  the fifth and seventh sessions of the General Confe-  rence before the USSR had joined Unesco. The  delegate added that his delegation had received the  documents on the Mass Communication budget rather  too late to study them thoroughly.
(32) The delegation of the USSR would therefore  abstain from voting on the resolutions,
(33) Sir Kenneth GRUBB (United Kingdom) stated that  the United Kingdom delegation had always been in  fevour of the fullest and freest flow of information  and welcomed any activities by countries which would  assist or promote such flow,
(34) With reference to paragraph 94, however, he  thought that, as the choice of facilities was so great  and the ultimate ability or willingness of countries to  co-operate so variable, there was not much  - 455 -
1V-27 PROGRAMME AND  chance of success and he  project be dropped,
(35) He strongly supported the project outlined in  paragraph 99 and saw no objection to extending the  principle and system to include such things as  objets d'art.  proposed that the
(36) Mr. WIDDOWSON (Unicn of South Africa) was of  the opinion that bilateral agreements on the free flow  of information were of greater value than  multilateral agreements, and were adequate to meet  existing needs,
(37) He suggested that the Secretariat should draft a  model convention or agreement on a bilateral basis,  which would be of great assist. 1c€ to countries  wishing to conclude bilateral agreements.
(38) Mr. DESJARDINS {Department of Mass Com-  munication), in reply to the French and Swedish  delegates, said that the Department could include in  its programme an enquiry into the facilities for the  temporary import of artistic material.
(39) Referring to the international instrument fur the  free movement of persons, Mr. Desjardins drew the  Commission's attention to the Report of the Working  Party on International Regulations (8C/PRG/23), with  special reference to section IV (pages 4 and 5). The  Working Party had examined the Director-General's  report (document 8C/PRG/8) and adopted the following  draft resolution:
(40) Mr. Desjardins then read the text of the  resolution on pages 4-5 of document 8C/PRG/23,
(41) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) pointed  out that, if the Commission adopted that resolution, it  would have to be inserted after resolution 5. 33,  becoming 5, 34.
(42) Mr. PRATT (Australia) associated himself with  the recommendation of the Working Party on Inter-  national Regulations and complimented it on its  realistic approach to the problem.
(43) He supported the principle motivating Unesco in  its programme for the Exchange of Persons,
(44) The recommendation of the Working Party on  Interrational Regulations was adopted with 4  abstentions,
(45) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commission)  drew the attention cf delegates to the draft resolution  proposed by the Austrian delegation, International  Students' Correspondence (document 8C/DR/10). The
1dea was to request the Universal Postal Union to  prepare an international agreement on the reduction  of postage fees for international students"  correspondence.
(46) The Secretary added that the Advisory Committee  had not felt able to entertain the project, since the  General Conference was not competent to approachthe  Universal Postal Union direct.
(47) The Executive Board, on the other hand, was not  in a position to recomment that the Conference approve  the proposal, for the request contained in it was  outside Unesca's scope.  BUDGET
(48) Mr. LOEWENTHAL (Austria) asked if the  words "suggests to" might not be substituted for the  words "calls upon" in his delegation's draft  resolution,
(49) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  explained that the Director-General of Unesco could  neither "call upon" the UPU to take action nor  "suggest" that it do so. Member States alone could  submit proposals to the Coagress of that organization,  Since many States were members of both Unesco and  the UPU, the last paragraph of the draft resolution  of the Austrian delegation might be drafted as follows:  "Invites Member States to propose to the Congress of  the UPU,.,.".
(50) Mrs. PINTO DE VIDAL (Uruguay) hoped that  the Austrian proposal would receive wide support. In  her view, any measure which helped to promote inter-  school correspondence should be supported by Unesco,
(51) Mrs. LEGARDA (Philippines) supported the  Uruguayan proposal.
(52) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) said that,  although Unesco was interested in the proposal, it  had no jurisdiction in that field.
(53) The correct procedure would be for the Austrian  Government to put a proposal before the Universal  Postal Union.
(54) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commission)  read out the draft resolution submitted by Uruguay  relating to the free movement of persons (document
(55) The Secretary added that the Advisory Committee  had not recommended the proposal, the aims of which  had been pursued by the Organization for several  years past. Neith~r had the Erecutive Board  recommended its adoption.
(56) The CHAIRMAN stated that, as it was not  seconded, the draft resolution would not be put to the  vote.  (A) International action for reduction of obstacles to  free flow of information (paragraphs 88-102)
(57) Adopted, with 4 abstentions,  {B) Co-operation with United Nations, Specialized  Agencies and other International Organizations  (paragraphs 103-124)
(58) Adopted, with 5 abstentions.  (C) Studies on free flow of information (paragraphs
(59) Adopted with 5 abstentions.
(60) The CHAIRMAN declared resolutions 5.31, 5.32,
5.33, and the new resolution 5, 34, adopted.  - 456 -   PROGRAMME AND  Project 5.4: Clearing house and exchange and  stimulation of educational, scientific and cultural  programmes.  Paragraphs 127-135.
(61) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commission),  referring to paragraphs 130 to 135, drew attention to  a draft resolution submitted by the French delegation  on educational television broadcasts (document 8C/  DR/34). The Advisory Committee had recommended  the adoption of the proposal, which entailed no  additional expenditure.
(62) The French proposal was adopted.  (A) General clearing house activities (paragraphs
(63) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commission)  also drew the Commission's attention to the draft  resolution put forward by the Austrian delegation:  Encouragement of international co-operation in the  field of educational tilms on the part of Unesco  (document 8C/DR/ 16), which he read out. He added  that the Advisory Committee had not recommended  the adoption of the resolution, which would entail  expenditure of $1, 000.
(64) Mr. LEFRANC (France) thought the Advisory  Committee's decision hasty and ill-considered,  There were technical film dictionaries, but there  was none dealing with audio-visual techniques for  teaching purposes, laying stress on the use and  application in teaching of such techniques. The  International Council for Educational Film, which  had three working languages, thus experienced the  greatest difficulty in dealing with its correspondence,  owing to the lack of a suitable dictionary.
(65) Mr. DUERING (Sweden) agreed with the delegate  of France and supported the Austrian resolution  (document 8C/DR/ 16).
(66) He drew the attention of the Commission to the  similarity between the activities proposed in  paragraphs 139 and 158 and asked what the difference  between therm was.
(67) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  munication) noted that the International Council for  Educational Film might indeed have been mentioned  in paragraph 139, but it was already referred to in  connexion with the international exchange of  educational programmes (paragraphs 157 to 159),  which was a related activity,
(68) Mr. HACQUAERT (Belgium) asked whether the  Austrian draft resolution called for the sum of  $1,000 in addition to the appropriations mentioned  In section (A).
(69) The additional appropriation was approved,  with 7 abstentions.
(70) The whole of section (A) (paragraphs 136 to
142), together with resolutions 5. 41 and 5. 42, was  adopted.  BUDGET     COMMISSION IV-27  (B) Press, film and radio for children (paragraphs
143-145 and document 8C/5, Corr, 3)
(71) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  munication) stated that when document 8C/5 had gone  to press, the Director-General was still without  certain details needed to draw up the final text  (document 8C/5 Corr. 3), which was now before the  Conference and contained particulars of the two  projects in view.
(72) He drew delegates' attention to the revised draft  of the resolution submitted by the Italian delegation  regarding Press, Film and Radio for Children (docu-  ment 8C/DR/22 rev.). The Secretariat agreed to the  substitution of the text there set out for paragraphs
143 and 143 bis.
(73) Mr, CHEVALIER (Secrctary of the Commission)  noted that the Advisory Committee had remarked on  a Certain overlapping between the activities described  in paragraphs 143 and 144 of the original text  (document 8C/5) and the action of Member States at  national level. Documents 8C/5 Corr. 3 and
8C/DR/22 rev, had both appeared since then.
(74) Mr. CALO (Italy) recalled that the General  Conference in 1952 had recommended that an  international organization be set up to enquire into  problems concerning children and young people in  their relation to the cinema, television, press and  radio. As could be seen from document 8C/ PRG/ 16,  many Member States and several non-governmental  organizations had replied to the circular letter asking  for their views on that recommendation. In many  countries, particularly in Italy, the movement had  made great strides, for government departments,  educationists, programme producers and official  representatives had taken an interest init. What was  needed was to co-ordinate the movement at the  international level and to make use of the goodwill  aroused in all countries and among all the organiza-  tions concerned. Exchanges should be arranged  between the Member States in connexion with all the  measures to be taken in the matter.
(75) If the estimated budget was too high, full use  should be made of the studies and fact-finding  campaigns conducted by the Department.
(76) Mrs. JOBORU (Hungary) said that films and  radio played a big part in the upbringing of a child as  well as did the home and school. It was suggested  here that they should be used for the purpose of  procuring better international uncerstanding but they  could also be the cause of hatred.
(77) She proposed that Unesco should collect  information on the use of the cinema and radio in
1955 as a clearing house activity and, in addition,  that at the end of 1955 the possibility or desirability  of setting up a group of experts to study the problems  involved, should be considered.
(78) If it should be discovered that films encouraged  wars and hatred, Unesco would be in a position to  raise a very strong protest. The authority of Unesco  in the realm of teaching peace and spiritual values  would thereby be increased.  - 457 -
(79) Mr. ESTELRICH (Spain) wished to support the  Italian draft resolution.
(80) Sir Kenneth GRUBB (United Kingdom) indicated  that the United Kingdom delegation was opposed both  to the resolution contained in document 8C/DR/22  rev, and to the contents of paragraph 143,
(81) An enquiry had been made in the United Kingdom  on the effect of the cinema on young people and it had  been discovered that to pursue the enquiry properly  would be extremely costly.
(82) He would be more inclined to support the  proposal by the delegate of Hungary that the collection  of information should be a clearing house activity,
(83) After some discussion, it was agreed, by 27  votes to 9, with 6 abstentions, to substitute the  Italian draft resolution for paragraphs 143 and
(84) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  munication) explained that the paragraphs 144 and
115 of Corr. 3 resulted from a Conference of experts  on the film industry which had been held under the  auspices of Unesco in July 1954 by the organizers of  the International Film Festival at Locarno, It was  expected that the film industry would, after a few  years, soon take over responsibility for the measures  advocated,
(85) The project was adopted without opposition.  (C) Co-operation with communication research  institutes (paragraphs 146-148)
(86) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commission)  read out the draft resolution on the Clearing House  submitted by the French delegation (docuraent
8C/DR/ i112), and quoted document 9C/PRG/17, on  co-operation with communication research institutes.
(87) Mr. TERROU (France) remarked that there were  many communication research organizations in the  world. Such research work was at the moment very  little connected and to co-ordinate it would be just  the sort of activity normally pursued by Unesco. The  document quoted confirmed that such a project would  be useful to Member States. The annual appropriation  of $3,500 was obviously inadequate, and Unesco  should take steps to deal with that point.
(88) The French proposal, supported by several  delegations, was adopted by 29 votes to 4, with 6  abstentions,  (D) Television and the educational and dccumentary  film (paragraphs 149-153)
(89) Mr. DUERING (Sweden) expressed doubt of the  value of this activity, He thought that, as the  possibility of financial co-operation between tele-  vision and the production of documentary films  was a commercial one, its solution lay in the  commercial field,
(90) The various countries had different technical  standards in the use of television, and their  financing and programme policies were different. In  - 458 -  BUDGET     COMMISSION  addition, the conditions governing the expansion of  television were unstable, Rapid developments might  render the contents of paragraph 151 obsolete.
(91) He moved that paragraph 151 be deleted from the  present programme.
(92) Mr. SHAHANE (Indiz, -1so thought that the  proposal contained in paragraph 151 was premature  and that it would be wiser to give countries and  commercial interests time to propound their views,  He proposed that the activity should be postponed for  two years.
(93) Mr. LEFRANC (France) could not accept that  argument, for the film industry had come into being
50 years previously and television had been in  operation with every success for 10 years past.
(94) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  munication) wished to make a general remark on the  subject of television, In a very few years, there would  be few countries without their own network; of the
58 Member States which already had or would within  a year have their own television system, 16 were in  North and South America, 28 in Europe, 7 in Asia, 4  in Africa and 3 in Oceania.
(95) Radio, with several years' experience behind it,  already had firmly rooted customs, which those in  charge were reluctant to change.
(96) Television needed enormous quantities of  expensive programmes, and many producers desired  or expected action by Unesco.
(97) There were technical difficulties, and they were  constantly changing; efforts might be made to solve  them by co-operation between cinema and television  technicians. The cinema was unquestionably going  through a critical period, and television offered an  excellent market for educational films. It was an  extremely useful means of promoting international  understanding, since producers in many countries  were already eager to take part in programme  exchanges at their own expense. It should be borne  in mind that television was established in Japan, in  the USSR, etc., and that it was in the process of  developing in many other countries.
(98) In conclusion, Mr. Desjardins said that he had  found it hard to believe that such was the situation,  but that in the past two years he had become  absolutely convinced,
(99) Mr. HARDY (United States of America) said that  the United States delegation would give its general  support to the practice of exchanging educational films,
(100) He warned against an over-optimistic view of  the use of television in education. Television offered  great opportunities for the use of educational films  and would limit the cost of production but it would  also show the shortcomings.
(101) He thought that 1t would be wiser to postpone  the activity to allow countries to experiment before  determining whether the scheme should have  universal application,
(102) Mr. FORSYTH (New Zealand) thought  that the Commission was in agreement on  the activity in so far as documentary  films were concerned and wondered if the   PROGRAMME AND  item could be split into two parts with a  separate vote being taken on each.
(103) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  munication) was not sure that he had fully understood  the proposal he had just heard, His project related  to documentary films for which there was too small  a market. It would entail an increase in the  production of such films.
(104) The project was adopted by 31 votes to 3,  with 8 abstentions.  (E) The rôle of broadcasting in the dissemination  of culture (paragraphs 154-156)
(105) After explanations by Mr. DESJARDINS  {Department of Mass Communication) and the  CHAIRMAN, the project, which the Commission  had already approved in dealing with the cultural  activities budget, and which, moreover, was  supported by the Belgian delegate, was adopted  without opposition.  (F) International exchange and stimulation of  production of educational, scientific and cultural  programmes (paragraphs 157-159)  {106) The project, warmly seconded by the French  delegate, was adopted without opposition.  (G) World Braille Council (paragraphs 160-162)
(107) The project had been approved by the Advisory  Committee, which had raised the sum for contracts  for the establishment of the Council by $2, 500 for
(108) Adopted with increased allocation.  (H) Assistance in the production and dissemination  of art films (paragraphs 162a to 162h, document
8C/5 Corr.)
(109) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass  Communication) explained that the activities formerly  dealt with partly by the Department of Cultural  Activities and partly by the Department of Mass  Cammunication had been linked up by the Director-  General in the budget of the latter Department.  Obviously the two services concerned wouid work  closely together.
(110) The project was adopted, and included in the  draft programme and budget.  Project 5.5: Use of the means of communication for  fundamental and workers! education.  (A) Educational Film Institute for Latin America  (paragraphs 172 and 173)
(111) Mr. SANDOVAL VALLARTA (Mexico),  referring to paragraph 172 of the chapter on Mass  Communication, said that he was happy to see that an  educational film centre was to be set up in Patzcuaro,  but that his Government wished to make one  BUDGET     COMMISSION IV-27  reservation, It did not know what the total cost of  the scheme would be, but was agreeable so long as  the Mexican contribution was no greater than  Unesco's.
(112) Paragraphs 163-173 were put to the vote and  approved.  (B) Local production of fundamental education films  (paragraphs 174-176)
(113) Adopted.  (C) Visual aid kits for fundamental education  (paragraphs 177 and 178)
(114) Adopted.  (D) Influence of educational broadcasts (paragraphs
179 and 180)
(115) Adopted.  (E) Perindical reading material for new literates  (paragraphs 181 and 182)
(116) Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) said that the  United Kingdom delegation approved the project for  providing periodicals for new literates. He stressed  the importance of seeing that the periodicals were of  a type to suit the readers and that they should be  published cheaply.
(117) The most difficult problem of all about such  periodicals was that of dissemination. He cited the  case in British colonial experience, where it had  been discovered that within two hundred yards of the  official bookshop official books were sold in the  market at five times their official price.
(118) He drew the attention of the Secretariat to that  and similar problems of dissemination and asked that  it should tackle them.
(119) Mr, DESJARDINS (Department of Mass  Communication) agreed with the United Kingdom  delegate that such problems should be tackled and  stated that the Secretariat was aware of them and  had already approached the Director of the Bantu  Press with a view to obtaining information about the  difficulties involved. The Secretariat would keep the  request of the United Kingdom delegate in mind.
(120) Paragraphs 181 and 182 were adopted.  (F) Fellowships (paragraph 183)
(121) Adopted.  (G) Regional Film Library for the Middle East  (paragraphs 184 and 185)
(122) Adopted.  (H) Use of television for fundamental or workers!  education (paragraphs 186 and 187)
(123) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commission)  stated that the Advisory Committee had  - 459 -   IV-27 PROGRAMNE AND  considered that the project was premature and  recommended postponing it until the 1957-58  programme.
(124) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass  Communication) reminded the Commission of what  he had already said of television, An experts"  seminar had been held in London with great success  and a similar experiment was to be tried in Japan.
(125) Mr. SUZUKI (Japan) stated that his country  had had its own television service for a year. It  was developing very rapidly and consideration would  have to be given to the use of television for  fundamental education much sooner than had been  expected. He ended by saying that Japan would be  very happy to take part in such an experiment.
(126) A vote was taken, and the project was adopted  by 32 votes to nil, with 3 abstentions.  (I) Development of the radio forum as a means of  fundamental education (paragraphs 188 and 189)
(127) Adopted without opposition,  Project 5.6: Technical aid to Member States in  development of mass communication services  (paragraphs 190-199)
(128) The project was adopted without opposition.  Project 5.7: Voluntary international assistance  (paragraphs 200-220)  (A) Unesco coupon scheme and travel coupon scheme
(129) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commission)  said that the whole project had been recommended by  the Advisory Committee, which had laid special  emphasis on its educational aspect.
(139) Mr. FAUBLAS (Haiti) pointed out that  Unesco coupons were not accepted by booksellers  everywhere in his country. He asked that efforts  should be made to co-ordinate the scheme.
(131) Mr. SOLODOVNIKOV (Union of Soviet Sdcialist  Republics) said that the Soviet delegation could not  vote in favour of the projects concerning Unesco  coupons, as the Soviet Government had taken no part  in working out the various coupon schemes and it  would need to give the programme further study.
(132) Mr. HARDY (United States of America)  supported the provisions of this section and said  that it offered greater opportunities for world-wide  international understanding than any other section of  the Mass Communication programme.
(133) Mr. WALKER LINARES (Chile) said that his  delegation was keenly interested in the Unesco Coupon  Scheme, but that in view of existing difficulties in  getting coupons accepted, particularly in Latin  American countries, he thought it advisable that a  resolution be put forward recommending that banks in  Member States accept the coupons in question,  BUDGET     COMMISSION
(134) Mr. SUZUKI (Japan) recalled his proposal to  set up a working party on the coupon schemes, Other  delegations were interested in irnproving them, and  he suggested that unofficial talks be held with  representatives of the Secretariat.
(135) The CHAIRMAN remarked that similar talks  held at the General Conference in Florence had  produced excellent results.
(136) Mr. ZUCKERMAN (Department of Mass  Communication) said that a discussion of that kind  might be arranged for the following week.
(137) Mr. PAIK (Korea) testified to the effect of the  gift coupon scheme in his country. His countrymen  had been greatly impressed by the extent of the aid  extended to it under the scheme. He hoped that it  would be extended still further and gave it his  whole-hearted support.
(138) Mr. LI U-YING (China) stressed the  educational and social value of the Unesco Coupon  Scheme. He thought that, modest though it was, the  scheme should help in promoting the aims of the  Organization,
(139) Mrs. KOCH (Denmark) agreed with the opinion  expressed by the United States delegate.
(140) Denmark was concerned with four countries in  the gift coupon scheme and concentrated on teaching  about those four countries in its schools. All teaching  was followed np with Unesco mater:al. She emphasized  that any textbooks on the four countries should not be  prepared by Unesco but by experts having an inside  knowledge of the countries corcerned.
(141) The Danish Government felt that the ideals  underlying the scheme were most vital to the work of  Unesco.
(142) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that the loyal  co-operation of Member States in the gift coupon  scheme provided Unesco with its happiest experiences  in the carrying out of its programme,
(143) Paragraphs 200-210 were adopted with 5  abstentions.  (B) Gift Coupon Programme (paragraphs 211-221)
(144) Paragraphs 211-218 were adopted with 5  abstentions.
(145) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commission)  drew delegates! attention to the resolution submitted  by the French delegation: Discounts-for administra-  tive expenses in connexion with Unesco Coupons, He  read out the draft resolution (document 8C/DR/ 33),  and added that the Advisory Committee had not  recommended its adoption.
(146) The CHAIRMAN mentioned the Congress  of the International Federation of Library  Associations, which had been held in  Zagreb. He thought the French delegation's  resolution was founded on insufficient  - 460 -   PROGRAMME AND  information, and he himself endorsed the  Advisory Committee's view,
(147) The delegate of Italy seconded the French  resolution.
(148) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out that  the resolution had budgetary implications amounting  to $100, 000. He was of the opinion that it would be  impossible to accept it, as the Commission had  still a long way to go in its work of cutting the  programme.
(149) The delegate of France withdrew his resolution  {document 8C/DR/33).
(150) Paragraphs 218-221 were adopted with 5  abstentions.  Draft resolution DR/11: United Nations stamps  honouring Unesco
(151) This resolution was not seconded and was  rejected.  Draft resolution DR/57 rev.: Circulation of  educational, scientific and cultural publications
(152) Mrs. PINTO DE VIDAL (Uruguay) regretted  that many of the proposals submitted by her    BUDGET COMMISSION 1v-28  delegation had been rejected, She could not  understand why the Executive Board had not  recommended the proposal to bring out a special  stamp to facilitate the exchange of cultural material.
(153) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass  Communication) said that the proposal would have to  be amended, since the Director-General could not  himself issue a stamp, The suggestion should be  studied and submitted as a proposal to Member  States, who could on their own account bring it  before the Congress of the Universal Postal Union.
(154) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive  Board) added that the Board had not supported the  proposal.
(155) The Uruguayan delegate agreed to the  amendment and Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-  General) accordingly proposed the following wording  for the beginning of the draft resolution. "The  General Conference invites Member States to  propose that the Universal Postal Union 1ssue.....".
(156) The proposed wording was accepted by the  delegation of Uruguay, and by the delegate of the  United Kingdom, and the project was adopted by 12  votes to 7, with 18 abstentions.  The meeting rose at 6.30 p.m,  TWENTY - EIGHTH MEETING
1 December 1954 at 11 a.m.  Chaurman : Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland)  ITEM 8.4.6 OF RFVISED AGENDA : EXCHANGE OF PERSONS  SERVICE
(1) Mr, W, CARTER (Chief, Exchange of Persons  Service) said that the programme was divided into  three parts: clearing house and advisory activities;  administration of fellowships; and the promotion of  exchange of persons for international understanding.  Continuous work in the three fields since 1947 had  enabled the Secretariat to build up experience in all  aspects of problems pertaining to the exchange of  persons, The service now possecsed extensive  documentation, had developed a series of publica-  tions and established contacts with governments and  provate organizations in the countries concerned,
(2) The policy for 1955-56 was a continuance of the  previous programme with the addition of certain new  features, the first of which was the development of  advisory services and assistance to Member States in  the form of technical consultations and discussions  on problems raised by them.
(3) With regard to fellowships, the policy was to offer  a limited number for the pursuit of studies abroad in  specific fields related to Unesco's programme. The  programme would inevitably fall short of the needs of  Member States, but the Secretariat had felt that it  would be better, instead of trying to cope with an  unlimited number of requests, to plan in collaboration  with the programme departments and link fellowships  with specific activities in those departments, Fellow-  ships would thus be an essential tool in the execution  of projects. The whole programme represented a  concerted effort, in collaboration with the beneficiary  and host countries, to develop programmes adequate to  to the needs of individual fellows, and was, in addition,  a form of technical aid to both the individual and his  country, Underlying it was Unesco's basic objective  of international understanding.
(4) With regard to the third part of the programme,  exchange of persons for international understanding,  which was concerned especially with young persons,  manual and non-manual workers, and teachers, new  - 461 -