15 November 1954 at 10 a.m.  Chairman. Mr. BEEBY (New Zealand)
(1) The CHAIRMAN asked the Secretary to announce  the names of the Vice-Chairmen: Mr. Huzayin  (Egypt), Mr. Kibovy (Israel) and Mr. Gomez  Robledo (Mexico).  ITEM 9.4 OF REVISED AGENDA: FINANCIAL QUESTIONS.  REPORTS OF EXTERNAL AUDITOR TO THE GENERAL  CONFERENCE ON THE ACCOUNTS OF THE ORGANIZATION  FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 1932 AND 1953  RESPECTIVELY. (documents 8C/ADM/4 snd addendum and
8C/ADM/5)
(2) The CHAIRMAN explained that the task of the  Administrative Commission was to recommend the  reports to the General Conference.
(3) Mr. BENDER (Executive Board) said that the  Finance Committee of the Executive Board and the  Board itself had heard a verbal statement by the  External Auditor. Their impression was that the  accounts and finances of the Organization were in  good order. The Board had made two comments on  the report for 1952.
(4) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) proposed that the  decision taken by the Executive Board should be  immediately accepted,
(5) Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Representative of the  Director-General) said that the Auditors had made  two comments on the report for 1952 (document
8C/ADM/4): (1) On unpaid contributions, the report,  made nearly 18 months ago, was largely out of date,  Part II (document 8C/ADM/ 8), which dealt with the  subject, would be taken up by the Committee on  Contributions later. (2) On the Headquarters building  preliminary expenses incurred were now being  refunded by the French Government.  {6) On the Auditor's Report for 1953 {document
8C/ADM/5) he made four points, (1) The accounts  represented the first part of a two-year period,  therefore there was an unobligated balance included  in the appropriations for 1954, (2) There had been  an improvement in the arrears of contributions.
(3) In the liquidation of obligations the Financial  Regulations had been contravened by the Director-  General, but that had been done in the interests of  the Organization, and had not been criticized.
(4) He drew attention to the existing state of affairs  in the arrangements with the International Commission  for the Scientific and Cultural History of Mankind.
(7) Miss LAISE (United States of America)  appreciated the measures taken by the Executive    Board to ensure stricter control over the payment of  contracts. She queried the large transfer of funds to  indirect personnel costs (1952). She also remarked,  with reference to the arrangements made with the  International Commission for the Scientific and  Cultural History of Mankind, that stricter control  appeared to be desirable, and suggested that a formula  should be found by the Secretariat to cover the point  raised, so that similar situations should not occur  again,
(8) Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) asked for  time on the first question. On the second, he said  there had been some discussior. of the matter. In  answer to a query by the Auditor, the Director-  General had replied that the Commission, created as  a result of a resolution proposed by the fifth session  of the General Conference, was an independent ent'ty,  and should enjoy autonomy. There was no budgetiry  control by Unesco over its expenditure, as there was  in the case of a number of other organizations with  which Unesco had contractual arrangements. It was  controlled by its own auditors, and their report,  although not formally required, had been made  available. Further control could take two forms: a  more detailed study of the budget estimates aud a more  detailed report on the disposal of funds; and, more  drastically, an examination of al! the financial  commitments of the Commission before they became  facts, as took place in Unesco itself, where every  project was thoroughly examined beforehand: by the  Comptroller. That was a duty which did not belong  to Unesco, but to the Commission.
(8) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) was sorry 0 note that  a comparison between the Werking Capita’ Fund  statement of deposits for 1952 and 1953, relating to  Member States' contributions, vevealed a considerable  increase in unpaid dues.
(10) Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptioller) said that the  question raised by the delegate of Belgium would  probably be considered as soon as the Committee on  Contributions had presented its report.
(11) Miss LAISE (United States of America) said that,  although the report as it stood could be approved, the  Administrative Commission should call the attention  of the Programme and Budget Commission to the  statement of the Auditor, so that, when appraising  the programme for the future, some alteration could  be made in the arrangement with the Interna ‘tional  Commission for the Scientific and Cultural  History of Mankind,  - 515 -   v-2 ADMINISTRATIVE
(12) That proposal, seconded by the delegates of  Greece and Italy, was approved.
(13) The Administrative Commission agreed to  recommend the two resorts to the General Confer-  ence and, at the suggestion of the delegate of the  United Kingdom, seconded by the delegate of  Pakisian, to qualify them as very satisfactory.  ITEM 8.4.8.1 OF REVISED AGENDA : EXPANDED PROGRAMME  OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE (document 8C/ \DM/28)
(14) Mr, HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) said that  the audited accounts fer 1952 were approved by the  Executive Poard, in accordance with the resolutions  of the seventh session. It was necessary for those  audited reports to be approved each year for forward-  ing to the United Nations, The 1953 accounts had not  been submitted in time, owing to the clash in dates  between the General Conference and the General  Assembly.
(15) A resolution was proposed pro forma by the  CHAIRMAN, and secoided by the Umted Kingdom,  Greece, Israel, and Iraq, that the General Confer-  ence be recommended to authorize the Executive  Board to examine and approve the report on the  expenditure of technical assisicnce funds for 1955  and 1956.
(16) Agreed,  ITEM 9.4.5 OF REVISED AGENDA . ADMINISTRATION OF [HE  WORKING CAPITAL FUND (document 8C/ADM/9)
(17) Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) summarized  the contents of document 8C/ADM/9.
(18) The CHAIRMAN, taking each clause separately,  moved a pro forma resolution recommending the  General Conference to adopt the decision proposed  under B (i) (page 2).
(19) The motion was seconded by the delegates of  Belgium, the United Kingdom and France, and  adopted.
(20) The CHAIRMAN then moved a similar resolution  on B (ii).
(21) Miss LAISE (United States of America) asked  whether it was essential to move a resolution before  a subject could be discussed. She hoped a precedent  would not be created, A number of issues were for  information only.
(22) The CHAIRMAN explained that his method of  proposing resolutions pro forma, in cases where  they had not been presented by the Executive Board,  was merely intended to speed up procedure, but that  nothing could stop delegates from speaking on  whatever they wanted to.
(23) Miss LAISE (United States of America), on (ii),  objected to the use of the word unpredictable as being    COMMISSION  synonymous with unforeseen, and proposed its  replacement by the word extraordinary. Secondly,  she thought 1t was not possible to take a final  decision on a resolution of that sort before all he  programme items had been considered, Sub-  paragraphs (a) and (b) related to specific activities,
(24) The first proposal by the delegate of the United  States of America was adopted.
(25) It was decided to defer the discussion of  sub-paragraph (ii).
(26) Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) pointed out that the use  of the words objected to by the United States delegate  need not prevent the Commission from adopting the  resolution. For one thing, the word extraordinary,  in connexion with the budget, had been 1n universal  use for a long time. For another, rejection of the  word unpredictable would leave the problem  unchanged, since it would not affect the nature of  such expenditure (which was useful precisely because  it gave the Secretariat a free hand in its financial  administration).
(27) The CHAIRMAN agreed that a decision had been  taken too quickly on the word unpredictable in  sub-paragraph (i1).
(28) Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) said that  what was unpredictable was not the event but the  amount, for example in the case of salary  adjustments.
(29) Miss LAISE (United States of America) saw the  point but considered that the Working Capital Fund  should not be used to create additional cominitments  unless the expenses were really extraordinary. It  was not meant to cover cases of bad budgeting.  {30) Mr. KELLY (Australia) remarked that the  resolution {sub-paragraph ii) was worded differently  in the three languages. The Spanish referred to  gastos imprevistos y extraordinarios, the English to  unforeseen and unpredictable expenses, while the  French talked of faire face à des dépenses imprévues  ou à des dépenses dont le montant ne peut être  évalué exactement. The French text was the most  precise.
(31) Mr. EL-ZAYAT (Egypt) proposed that the three  qualifying adjectives used in the different versions  should all be included.
(32) That proposal was seconded by the delegate of  South Africa and adopted.
(33) Mr. KELLY (Australia) raised a question of  substance on sub-paragraph (ii). Why had special  provision been made for salary adjustments from the  Working Capital Fund for 1955-1956?
(34) Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) said that that  provision was linked with the comrionpolicy of the United  Nations and Specialized Agencies, inregard to salary  adjustments due torises inthe cost of living index. A  document on the subject wruld be debated later.  - 516 -   ALMINISTRATIVE
(35) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) wondered why the  Director-General had submitted a separate resolution  for each year. Adoption cf a two-year basis left more  room for unforeseen factors. It would surely be  more natural to insert the two paragraphs in question  in the Financial Regulations for the subsequent  financial years, rather than to submit a single  resolution for 1955-56 as a whole.
(36) Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptrcller) replied that  the financial regulations of Unesco were drawn up on  a common basis with those of the United Nations and  Specialized Agencies, However, the Director-General  could be asked to discuss the position with the other  agencies to see whether a regulation of the kind  suggested could be inserted in the general framework  of all of them.
(37) The delegate of Japan accepted that solution.
(38) Mr. EL-ZAYAT (Egypt) supported the remark  made previously by the Lebanese delegate. There  could be no fear (as suggested by the delegate of the  United States of America) that resolution (ii) could  become a pretext for the Director-General to  impose a heavier burden on Member States, since,  prior to any commitments, the approval of the  Executive Board would have to be ottained. The  Director-General should be allowed a margin of  error. That amounted to no more than 3% of the  budget. The delegate of Egypt moved that the  (shghtly amended) text should be adopted.
(39) Mr, ARTHUR (United Kingdom), replying to the  remark by the delegate of Japan, did not want to see  provisions adopted by the Administrative Commission  at that stage incorporated in the Financial Regulations.  Each General Conference would wish to consider the  use of the Working Fund.
(40) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan), in reply to a question  from the CHAIRMAN, said that he would not go so  far as to urge that the United Kingdom delegate's  suggestion should become a formal resolution but  hoped it would be passed to the Director-General for  his consideration.
(41) Miss LAISE (United States of America) proposed  that the resolution should not be definitely recom-  mended until the end of the proceedings of the  Admimstrative Commission, as it might still be  affected by the discussion on the cost of living, and  other discussiors.
(42) The resolution was approved, with the provision  that any member of the Commission could bring it up  again for discussion at a later stage.
(43) The resolution contained in sub-paragraph  B (iii) was proposed pro forma by the CHAIRMAN  and seconded by the delegate of Thailand,
(44) Mr. POHL (Union of South Africa)  enquired whether any time-limit had  been set for the reimbursement of  the advances mentioned in the  sub-paragraph.    COMMISSION V-2  {45) Mr, HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) agreed that  that could be done. It had not been found necessary  up to the present.
(46) Mr. MENDOZA (Guatemala) asked for a brief  explanation of the kind of self-liquidating expenditures  referred to, as he considered it essential for the  Commission to have concrete information on the  subject before it decided on a time-limit for the  reimbursement of the advances in question.
(47) Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) said that a  number of items were met by the fund 1n connexion  with work carried out with or on behalf of another  United Nations Agency.
(48) Sub-paragraph B (i1i) was adopted.
(49) Sub-paragraph (1v), moved pro forma by the  CHAIRMAN and seconded by the delegate of the  Philippines, was adopted.
(50) Sub-paragraph (v), seconded by the delegate of  Lebanon, was adopted.
(51) The whole resolution (subject to the French text  being found satisfactory) was adopted for  recommendation to the General Conference,  ITEM 9.4.6 OF REVISED AGENDA PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO  THE FINANCIAL REGULATIONS (document 8C/ADM/10)
(52) Mr, BENDER (Executive Board) said that these  amendments had been examined and approved by the  Board.
(53) The delegate of South Africa proposed their  adoption by the Administrative Commission and was  seconded by the delegate of Iran.
(54) Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) explained  that surpluses arose on two occasions. At the end of  each financial period there was a difference between  the appropriations and the obligations entered into;  and at the end of the period of time given for liqui-  dation, another surplus arose: the difference between  the amount disbursed and the amount recorded as an  obligation. The original financial surplus was not  distributed unless it was in cash. The distribution of  a book surplus would create a sort of bankruptcy.  The question was: should balances be returned to  Member States and, if so, how? It had been done by  deduction from the budget assessment, in the case of  Member States who had paid their contributions. In  the case of those who had not paid, it was distributed  to them by reduction of their arrears. But the result  of that procedure was that 100% was never collected.
(55) Mr. HARPER-SMITH went over the sample  figures given in the annex to document 8C/ADM/10.  It was proposed to alter the Financial Regulations so  as to prevent the distribution of cash surpluses to  members who had not paid. That would avoid the  recurrence of failure to collect 100% in any given year.
(56) Mr. KELLY (Australia) appreciated the lucid  - 517 -   v-2 ADMINISTRATIVE  explanation given by Mr. Harper-Smith, but raised  the question of a case in which a dispute over a  triflisg amount between a Member State and Unesco  might show a small arrear from year to year which  would prevent that State from receiving a share of a  cash surplus. Was some form of pro rata  distribution practicable? Could the Director-General  amend his amendment in that sense?
(57) Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) asked for  time to think that over.
(58) Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) thought that sounded a  very sensible arrangement but he would like to have  a few more details. Did the resolution as it stood  make it quite clear that Member States which had not  yet paid their contributions in full could, once they  had done so, be credited retroactively with their  share of surplus cash distributed? To avoid any  misunderstanding on the point, Mr. Ammoun  proposed to add the following:  "Member States are entitled to receive their share  of the cash surplus for any financial year, once they  have paid the whole of their contributions relating to  that same financial year".
(59) The proposed amendment was seconded by the  Egyptian and Argentine delegates.
(60) Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) considered  that the wording of the text covered the suggestion by  the delegate of Lebanon, The surplus vras to be  surrendered to any Member State who h. d paid in  full, the moment he had done so.
(61) Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) pointed out .nat  Regulation 4. 4. referred to a twelve-month period  dating from the end of a financial year, and suggested  that such a time-limit might leave some doubt as to  the general application of the arrangements.
(62) Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) said that  the date was that on which the amount was fixed, not  that on which the distribution was made. Some  surpluses dated back to 1947.
(63) The delegate of Lebanon withdrew his objéction.
(64) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) supported the  phrase proposed by the Director-General, in spite of  the sound objections of the delegate of Australia,  because it contained an exhortation to pay up.
(65) Mr. KELLY (Australia) was all in favour of  such exhortations but did not think their right place  was in an amendment to the Financial Regulations.
(66) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) asked what was the  practice in other international organizations on that  question,
(67) Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) said that  after consideration he thought there could be no  objection to a proportionate distribution of surpluses,  Answering the delegate of Japan, he added that in    COMMISSION  spite of considerable effort they had not succeeded  in making common financial regulations on that  question, as the problems varied so much from  agency t” agency.
(68) Mr. MENDOZA (Guatemala) suggested that all  questions of distribution of surpluses and contributions  by Member States who had or had not paid in full,  should be settled by adding the total amount of each  surplus to the next budget, under the head of extra-  ordinary revenue, as soon as it became available.  Distribution of surpluses would thus become automatic,  as the amount of the contribution decreased for the  following year.
(69) Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) said that  that had actually been the procedure for the past two  or three budgets, but it did not give‘Member States  their due, in proportion to what they had contributed,  Taking up the suggestion by the delegate of Australia  of a pro rata distribution, he said that would lead to  the same situation as that which the document under  discussion was intended to meet. He suggested that,  if there were a dispute over an amount due, the  Conference could decide that a Member State should  not pay, and the amount would have to be added to the  next budget estimates. On the whole, the proposal  was best as it stood.
(70) The delegate of Australia was satisfied with that  explanation.
(71) The CHAIRMAN proposed that, as it had a  complicated legal aspect, it could be left until  Wednesday when surpluses in general were to be  taken up.
(72) Mr. SALIM (Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan)  suggested that surpluses be added to the Working  Capital Fund.
(73) Mr. MENDOZA (Guatemala) stressed the fact  that a surplus was the rightful property of the Organi-  zation, and not of the countries which had contributed  to it. He therefore considered that, if the sum were  not to be added to the next budget, it would be more  logical for the Organization to make use of it in  attending to one of its many pressing needs, such as  technical assistance.
(74) Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) said that  that practice had been followed, for instance in the  Food and Agriculture Organization, but was not  appropriate where the full amount of working capital  had been called up.
(75) Miss LAISE (United Siates of America) objected
10 the implications of the proposal by the delegate of  Guatemala, which would involve a departure from  the present Financial Regulations, whereby a surpius  was credited to Member States.
(76) The resolution was adopted for recommendation  to the General Conference.  - 518 -   ADMINISTRATIVE  ITEM 9.4.7 OF REVISED AGENDA: REQUEST FROM THE  GOVERNMENT OF IRAN FOR THE WRITING OFF OF TRE  SUM OF $4,913.13, BEING A LOSS INCURRED BY THE IRANIAN  NATIONAL COMMISSION ACTING AS A DISTRIBUTING AGENCY  FOR UNESCO COUPONS (document 8C/ADM/ 29)
(77) Mr. RAADI (Iran) said that, in view of the  detailed nature of the document under discussion, he  would give no more than a brief summary of the  subject, He pointed out that the circumstances which  had led to an altered exchange rate for the rial in  terms of the dollar were exceptional, and stressed  the fact that the National Commission's budget was in  any case not large enough to meet the resultant  situation, He accordingly submitted a motion to the  effect that "the Administrative Commission recommend  that the General Conference authorize the Director-  General to write off the sum of $4,915, 15 to the  Iranian National Commission acting as a distributing  agency for Unesco coupons,"
(78) That motion was supported by the Colombian,  Chilean, Belgian, Egyptian, Israeli and Italian  delegates,
(79) Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) explained,  further, that it was not always easy for Unesco to  accept payment for Unesco coupons in the currency  of the country in which they were issued, of which it  often had no need. Occasionally that problem was  solved by negotiations with other Specialized Agercies  who could use the currency. That had been the case  with Iran, The United Nations had accepted Iranian  currency and repaid Unesco in French francs, but it  had specified a date for receipt of payment on the  part of the Iranian National Commission: 1 November
1952, when the rate was 41 rials to the dollar. The  proceeds were only deposited on 31 August 1953, by  which time the ratc had moved and $4,900 were lost  on the exchange,
(80) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) was wholly in favour of  the proposal submitted by the delegate of Iran, but  wished it enlarged to cover similar losses incurred  by other Nationai Commissions ($5, 700 had been lost  in Israel, $1,600 in Yugoslavia in a similar manner).
(81) Mr. SALIM (Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan)  thought that each case should be studied on its merits.
(82) Mr, EL-ZAYAT (Egypt) supported the motion  in the case of Iran, but felt that, if the concession  were made general, Unesco would be the loser.
(83) Mr, BENDER (Executive Board), in reply to a  question by the delegate of Ceylon, said that the  Board had not been informed of the cases of Israel  and Yugoslavia.
(84) Miss LAISE (United States of America) thought  that the real problem was to avoid the occurrence of  similar incidents in the future. Should National  Commissions be entrusted with the distribution of    COMMISSION v-2  Unesco coupons unless underwritten by their govern-  ments? She proposed that the discussion be postponed  until all the facts had been presented,
(85) That proposal was supported by the delegates of  the Netherlands and Australia.
(86) Mr. RAADI (Iran) said that the proposal  submitied by the United States delegate was equivalent  to a request to the Director-General to fix future  policy. He was not opposed to that idea, but, silice  the Iranian request, which had been prompted by  exceptional circumstances very unlikely to recur,  had already been carefuily examined, he repeated  his request that the question be discussed 1rnmediately.
(87) Mr, EL-ZAYAT (Egypt) moved an amendment  to the motion for postponement, He suggested that  deferment should apply to the other two cases. rhe  case of Iran should be considered at once.
(88) Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) said he hz no wish to  complicate procedure, Lut he wondered whether it  would not be helpful if anv motion or draft resolution  framed in the course of a meeting were submitted to  the delegates in writing, so that they might have a  definite text clearly in mind when they voted. If  necessary, the mover might dictate slowly to his  colleagues.
(89) Mr. RAADI (Iran) reminded the Commission  that the question had only been brought before che  Executive Board in order to obtain the latter's  permission to include it on the Administrative  Commission's agenda. He wanted to add, however,  that after a study of that special case had been made,  the Director-General had intimated, in the course of  the discussion, that he would support thz Iranian  Government's request before the General Conference.
(90) Mr, FRAGA IRIBARNE (Spain) remarked that  only the request of the Government of Iran figured  on the agenda; those submitted by the delegations of  Yugoslavia and Israel were not included; there was  therefore no need to decide whether or not the for mer  should be dealt with, The Commission should proceed  with it at once.
(91) Miss LAISE (United States of America) feared  that, if a decision were taken, the Com mission  might be creating a precedent. It was not yet known  why the National Commission of Iran had not made  the payme at at the arranged time. A fair decision  could not be taken at that stage.
(92) Mr. KELLY (Australia) said that the delegate  of the United States of America had raised a question  of principle, He moved that the discussion be  deferi'ed until the afternoon meeting.
(93) Agreed.  The meeting rose at | p.m.  - 518 -