GENERAL  (Tuesday, 16 November) to discuss means of finan-  cing the budget, and it was hoped that it would be able  to report back to the Commission on that subject by  Wednesday morning at the latest. With regard to the  Commission's own agenda, it would first examine  she Auditor's Report and would then go on (on Tuesday  morning, 16 November) to consider the important  question of the structure of the Executive Board.
(8) Mr. Beeby asked the Chairman if the question of  China's contribution was to be referred to the  Administrative Commission.
(10) The CHAIRMAN replied in the affirmative,
(11) In reply to a question from Mr. KABIR, Mr.  BEEBY said that the Secretariat had already drawn  up a tentative scale of contributions for 1955-56.
(12) Mr. GARDNER uA IES asked if the Adminis-  trative Cominission cuuld consider the means of  financing the budget and the question of budgetary  surpluses within 48 hours.
(13) Mr. BEEBY replied that, in his opinion, it  would be better for the Commission to consider that  question on the basis of the report of the Advisory  Committee. He therefore suggested that the itembe  taken by the Commission on Wednesday afternoon.  THIRD     COMMITTEE m-3
(14) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES agreed,
(15) Mr. VERONESE reminded the meeting that 3  December was the date scheduled for the election of  the Executive Board, The procedure for that election  would depend on whether the General Conference  accepted the proposed amendment to Article V of the  Constitution. Mr. Veronese would therefore be glad  to know whether the Administrative Commission would  soon be able to submit a preliminary report on the  problems raised by that draft amendment (item 9.3.1  of agenda of the Conference).
(16) Mr.BEEBY replied that he expected the Commis-  sion to be able to make an interim report including that  item. He did not share the fears of certain delegates, who  believed that the debate on the structure of the Executive  Board would last three or four days; he very much hoped  that it would be possible to conclude i: on Tuesday after-  noon. The question would then have to be referred to  the Legal Committee. It was important to report on  the matter to the Conference in plenary meeting as  soon as possible, as the Secretariat had informed him  that there would be a fortnight's work to be done be-  tween the Conference's decision and the election of  members of the Executive Board.  The meeting rose at 9,35 a.m.  MEETING
17 November 1954 at 9 a. m.  Chairman : Mr. ZAVALA MUNIZ (Uruguay)
(1) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL announced that the  Secretariat had some suggestions to make regarding  the sequence of work of the General Conference. He  requested the Assistant Director-General to explain  what the Secretariat proposed.
(2) Mr. MAHEU pointed out that the time-table of  work depended mainly on when the Programme and  Budget Commission fixed the provisional budget  total. [t could do so only after it received the  Report of the Administrative Commission on:(1) the  scale of contributions, and (2) the financing of the  projects included in the programme.
(3) Mr. Maheu thought that the Administrative Com-  mission would be able to submit its report on  Monday, 22 November, s0 that on Tuesday morning,
23 November, the Programme and Budget Commission  could consider the problem of fixing the provisional  budget total.
(4) Mr. BEEBY replied that he thought it à fair  estimate. The Administrative Commission would  start on financial questions that afternoon and he    was sure that it would be in a position to report on  Monday morning at the latest.
(5) Mr. MAHEU submitted the Secretariat's proposals  concerning the sequence of work of the Programme  and Budget Commission. The Commission would not  start discussing its agenda proper until the morning  of 18 November, but might be holding its first meet-  ing in the afternoon of 17 November to appoint its  officers and consider some organizational questions.  By Monday, 22 November, the Commission would  Lave to consider three major questions and Mr.  Maheu indicated the order proposed by the  Secretariat for those discussions:
(8) (1) General discussion of the Proposed Pro-  gramme and Budget for 1955-56. The draft pro-  gramme would be presented by the Chairman of the  Executive Board and the Director-General on 18  November at the morning meeting. At the same  meeting the Chairman of the Advisory Committee on  Programme and Budget would submit his report,
(7) (2) General consideration of the document pre-  pared by the Executive Board on the Remodelling of  - 241 -   mI-3 GENERAL  the Future Programme. It seemed logical to link  those two items, even though they were the subject of  separate reports by the Advisory Committee. Fol-  lowing that preliminary discussion, the item might be  sent back to the Advisory Committee for further study,  the Programme? Commission would then take its final  decision after thet first consultation.
(8) (3) Technical Assistance. The Commission  would complete its discussion of that item, whereas  it would undertake only a general discussion of points
(1) and (2), leaving detailed discussion of the draft  programme and budget until the budget ceiling had  been fixed and a general attitude determined  towards (2).
(9) That work would occupy the period from Wednes-  day 17 to Tuesday 23 November, as a plenary meet-  ing was to be held in the meantime to consider the  Administrative Commission's proposals on the  amendments to the Constitution; that meeting could  be held between the consideration of points (2) and (3)  indicated above.
(10) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES formally moved  adoption of the Secretariat's proposals,
(11) Mr. KABIR asked whether it would be possible,  in order to save time, for the Programme and Budget  Commission to combine the first two items, namely,  the discussion of the draft programme and budget for
1955-56 and the discussion of the Executive Board's  Report on the Remodelling of Unesco's Future  Programme,
(12) Mr. MAHEU thought that it might be wiser to  leave it to the Commission itself to decide that point.
(13) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES observed that the Ad-  visory Committee would be submitting & separate  report on each of those items.
(14) Mr. BOURGEOIS endorsed the Secretariat's  proposals, which for the time being were the most  satisfactory, since the discussions would be basedoc:  two separate reports. He thought that the report of  the Chairman of the Advisory Committee would  clarify the line to be followed ir those discussions.
(15) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES explained that the  report of the Advisory Committee on its examination  of the draft programme and budget had already been  printed, but the Committee had not yet approved the  final draft of its Report on the Remodelling of the  Future Programme. Therefore, if the Programme  and Budget Commission met the following day (18  November), it would be able to examine the first  report only.
(16) In reply to Mr. HAGUIWARA, Mr. MAHEU  explained that the decision concerning the budget  total was taken at a plenary meeting on the  recommendation of the Programme and Budget  Commission.
(17) Mr. HAGUIWARA enquired whether a plenary  meeting would be held immediately after the Pro-  gramme Commission had decided the budget total in  order to approve that total, He gathered from the    COMMITTEE  Secretariat's affirmative reply that the plenary meet-  ing could be held on Tuesday 23 or Wednesday 24  November.
(18) The General Committee approved the  Secretariat's proposals concerning the organization  of work.
(18) Mr. MAHEU pointed out that the Chairman of  the Advisory Committee would present that Commit-  tee's report to the Administrative Commission that  very afternoon and to the Programme Commissionthe  following morning and would draw the attention of  each Commission to the subjects within their  respective competence.
(20) Mr. BEEBY stated that the Commission had  three urgent matters to settle: (1) the method of  financing the budget (on which it would report by  Monday, 22 November); (2) the structure of theExe-  cutive Board; and (3) arrears of contributions of  Member States. The Commission had held a whole  day's discussion on the constitution of the Executive  Board, but had decided not to vote on it until Thurs-  day afternoon (18 November). With regard to arreurs  of contributions, the Committee on Contributions was  almost ready to report back to the Commission, but  Mr. Beeby did not know exactly when the latter would  be able to present its own report on that subject.
(21) Sir Ronald ADAM asked {f it would be possible  for the Executive Board to rieet the following morn-  ing (18 November) at 8 a, m., instead of the General  Committee, to discuss applications of international  non-governmental organizations for admittance to  consultative arrangements with Unesco.
(22) It was agreed that the Board should meet at that  time,
(23) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES asked the Chairman of  the Headquarters Committee when he was expecting  the Committee to meet.
(24) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO said that no decision  had yet been taken as to when his Committee would  meet. The date would depend on consultations which  were proceeding with the Secretariat,
(25) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL thought that there  Was no great urgency. Mr. Callison of the Head-  quarters Office was arriving in Montevideo the  following week, and the Committee might decide to  meet then.
(26) In reply to a question from Mr. MAHEU, Mr.  BEEBY said that the Commission intended to discuss  the directives concerning subventions to international  non-governmental organizations immediately after it  had settled the three urgent matters he had already  mentioned. It would then discuss staff questions  later in the following week.
(27) Mr. MAHEU explained that it would facilitate  the work of the Programme and Budget Commission  if, before discussing subventions, it could have  - 242 -   OENERAL COMMITTEE oI-3  the report of the Administrative Commission on  that supject.
(38) Mr. BERNAL JIMENEZ aanounced that he was  going to raise a different subject f..om those under  discussion. Uruguay was a country that had always  been in the van of Latin American civilization owing  to the wealth and vigour of its national culture. In  earlier days Uruguayan culture had been represented  by such famous writers and poets as José Enrique  Rodd, Herrera y Relasig and Zorrilla de San Martin.  Today, that culture was personified by the poetess  Juana de Ibarbourou, who was famed all over the  continent.
(29) He thought that Unesco should pay homage to  the Uruguayan poetess by inviting her to a plenary  meeting at which one of the delegates would pay a  tribute to her intellectual eminence. The ceremony  would not last more thar five minute; and would be  held at the time consider.“ most convenient.
(30) The CHAIRMAN said he had been deeply moved  by the words of the representative of Colombia. The  proposal filled him with pride and joy, especially as  Juana de Ibarbourou, besides being his compatriot,  came from his own part of the country and was a  personal frierd. He accepted the tribute as an  honour paid to Uruguay.
(31) Mr. RUIZ-GIMENEZ supported Mr. Bernal  Jimenez! proposal and expressed his gratification at  the tribute to be paid to "Juana de America" at a  session of a Unesco General Conference held in  America. )
(32) The CHAIRMAN said that, if there was no ob-  jection, the General Committee would take the pro-  posal into consideration and would consult with the  Director-General on the arrangements to be made.
(33) Mr. BADINI CONFALONIERI supported Mr.  Bernal Jimenez ' proposal and referred to the pre-  cedent of the Florence Conference. There a similar  tribute was paid to Madame Montessori, who had been  - 243     invited to speak at a meeting of the Programme  Commission.
(34) The CHAIRMAN announced that the General Com-  mittee wouid make arrangements for the tribute to be  paid to Juana de Ibarbourou and thanked members on  behalf of Uruguay for having approved the proposal,
(35) Mr. BEEBY requested the advice of the General  Coruraittee on whether or not to include two new items  on the agenda. He recalled that the Commission had  sircady adopted a resolution recommending the grant  ing of à request from the Government of Iran for the  writing off of the surn of $4,915.15, being a loss  incurred by the Iranian National Commission acting  as a distributing agency for Unesco coupons. Just  before the Conference, à similar request had been  received from the Government of Yugoslavia and,  since the Conference had started, another from the  Government of Israel. If so desired, those two  items could be added to the agenda.
(36) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL stated that the Secre-  tariat could see no objection to the inclusion of the  two items.
(37) Mr. MONTAGNIER pointed out that the inclusion  of additional items on the agenda of the Conference  had to be approved by a two-thirds majority of the  Conference, on the recommendation of the General  Committee.
(38) In reply to a question from Mr. GARDNER  DAVIES, Mr. BEEBY said that the Administrative  Commission had not voted on the principle involved,  but only on the specific case of Iran, However, the  Commission had been informed by the Secretariat  that, as other arrangements had since been made, it  was practically impossible for the situation to  recur,  The meeting rose at 9.50 a.m.