24 November 1954 at 11 a.m.  President: Mr. BADINI CONFALONIERI (italy)  CONTENTS  Payment of arrears of contributions (document 8C/ADM/30  Add.1). China's right to vote fete ee ees cee ee 179  Scale of contributions and methods of financing the budget in
(1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  The General Committee decided this morning to hold  a plenary meeting to discuss two items un the agenda:
(1) The payment of arrears of contributions and  China's right to vote (document 8C/ADM/30 Add, 1);
(2) The scale of contributions and the methods of  financing the budget for 1955 and 1956. I call on the  Rapporteur nf the Administrative Commission.
(2) Mr. ERIKSSON (Sweden) (Rapporteur of the Ad-  ministrative Commission): Mr. President, fellow  delegates, owing to changes in the meetings sched-  uled, 1 am not able to present a written report on  this first item just mentioned by the President. I  hope, however, that you will be willing to accept  this cral report,
(3) I will first take the arrears of contributions -  reauests from Czechoslovakia, Hungary and Poland.
(4) The Administrative Commission recommends  the adoption cf the draft resolutions contained in  this document, subject to the following changes:  The words ".., each of the ordinary sessions of  the General Conference” should be substituted for  "... each session of the General Conference", in  paragraph (iii) of each resolution, There are also  some small drafting changes in the French text,  concerning paragraph 1 of each resolution,
(5) The Commission has also considered the intro-  ductory remarks and recommends their adoption,  subject to the following changes: on page 2, the end  of the second paragraph should read: "... in imp-  lementing the current programme or in formulating  future programmes of the Organization”. On the  same page, add at the end of the second paragraph:  "Neither should such an arrangement constitute a  precedent. This resolution, of which we have re-  commended the adoption, includes full voting rights  for the three countries concerned: Czechoslovakia,  Hungary and Poland. 1 would add that the delegates  - 178 -     ces 4 00 + + se. + 1 » 180  of these countries have .nformed the Admimstrative  Commission that their Governments accept these  arrangements for the payment of their arrears,  China's right to vote
(6) The next point is the voting rights of China.  The Administrative Commission recommends that  the General Conference adopt the following resolu-  tion:  "The General Conference  Decides to permit the Chinese delegation to vote  during the present session of the Conference in  pursuance of Article IV, 8 (c) of the Constitution’.
(7) That is exactly the same wording &s was adop-  ted by the General Conference last time,
(8) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):
1 call on the delegate of the Union of Burma.
(9) Mr. THA HLA (Union of Burma): Concerning  the arrears of contributions, we were discussing  the right to vote in the case of Czechoslovakia,  Fungary and Poland. 1 note, in document 8C/ADM/30,  Add. 1, that these countries are paying their debts.  Czechoslovakia is paying back in nine years, Hungary  in ten years and Poland in twelve years, In the  opinior of the Burmese delegation, it is evident  thit these countries are genuine in their desire to  pay back; it is a matter of time and the particular  manner in which this payment will be made. So  in the name of the delegation of the Unior of Burma,
1 am in favour of their being given the right to vote.
(10) With regard to the debts of the Kuomintang  Chinese Government, ! do riot see the same sincer-  ity, and 1 am not quite sure, under these circum-  stances, whether 1 could support their desire to  vote. It may be that I am prejudiced by the fact  that the Kuomintang Chinese Government is scll  carrying on an act of war, affecting, amongst  other things, cultural buildings and sites on  Burmese territory today. However, for the moment   II-12 PLENARY  I will try to ignore these incidents. But i am still  thinking in terms of the technical requirements of  the Constitution. Here is a country which, in my  opinion, does not show real evidence of a desire to  pay back its debt, and I think, in such a case, we  should be mindiul of the requirements of our Consti-  tution; therefore I, for one, shall not vote for the  recommendation that the Kuomintang Chinese Gov-  ernment be given the right to vote in the proceedings  to come,
(11) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call on the delegate of Brazil.
(12) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) (Translation  from the French): Mr, President and delegates, the  Brazilian delegation fully supports the request made  to us to give the right to vote to the countries which  are in arrears with their contributions - Czecho-  slovakia, Hungary and Poland, The Brazilian Gov-  ernment commends the formula that has been so  skilfully found and the efforts made by these countries  to meet their obligations towards our Organization.
(13) The Brazilian Government similarly supports  the request put forward by the Chinese Government,  which has been represented in this Organization  since its inception.
(14) In the Committees and Commissions where  these two questions have been discussed, political  reservations have been made by various parties  against various motions, and these may be found in  the records. I had hoped that at this plenary meeting  we could make an effort to reach mutual understand-  ing and not reopen these bitter questions, all of which  have left their trace 1n the records and on each of  which individual delegates have commented as instruc-  ted by their governments, ! would like to see a un-  animous gesture of mutual concession and to haope  that we might keer as far as possible out of our dis-  cussions reservations that might be more appropri-  ately raised and debated in the United Nations. !  should like to appeal for unbroken unanimity so that  we can work in harmony with Czechoslovakia,  Hungary, Poland and China.
(35) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  If no one wishes to speak I declare the discussion  closed and we shall proceed to the vote,
(16) We shall now vote on the question of Hungary,  Poland and Czechoslovakia. If there is no oppo-  sition, the vote will be taken by roll-call.
(17) The vote was taken by roll-call.  Voted in favour: Argentina, Australia, Austria,  Belgium, Brazil, Burma (Union of), Byelorussian  Soviet Socialisi Republic, Cambodia, Ceylon, Chile,  Costa Rica, Cuba, Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt, El  Salvador, France, German Federal Republic, Haiti,  India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Italy, Japan,  Jordan (Hashemite Kingdom of), Lebanon, Liberia,  Libya, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicar-  agua, Norway, Pakistan, Philippines, Saudi-Arabia,  Sweden, Switzerland, Syria, Thailand, Turkey,  Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics, United Kingdom, Uruguay,  Yugoslavia,  - 180 -     MEETINGS  Abstained: Canada, Colombia, Dominican  Republic, Greece, Guatemala, Honduras, Korea,  Spain, Union of South Africa, United States of  America, Viet-Nam.  Absent: Afghanistan, Laos, Luxembourg,  Monaco, Nepal, Panama, Peru, Venezuela.
(18) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  The result of the voting is as follows: in favour: 48,  against: nil; abstentions: 11; absent: 8.
(19) The delegations of Poland, Czechoslovakia  and Hungary are henceforth admitted to the vote.
(20) We shall now take a vote on the question of the  voting rights of the Chinese delegation. The vote  will be taken by roll-call and will be on the right  of China to vote.
(21) The vote was taken by roll-call,  Voted in favour: Argentina, Australia, Austria,  Belgium, Brazil, Cambodia, Chile, Colombia,  Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador,  Egypt, El Salvador, France, German Federal  Republic, Greece, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras,  Italy, Japan, Jordan (Hashemite Kingdom of),  Korea, Lebanon, Liberia, Libya, Mexico, Monaco,  Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Pakistan,  Philippines, Saudi-Arabia, Spain, Thailand, Turkey,  Union of South Africa, United States of America,  Uruguay, Viet-Nam.  Voted against: Burma (Union of), Byelorussian  Soviet Socialist Republic, Ceylon, Czechoslovakia,  Denmark, Hungary, Norway, Poland, Sweden,  Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics, Yugoslavia.  Abstained: Canada, India, Indonesia, Iran,  Iraq, Israel, Switzerland, Syria, United Kingdom.  Absent: Afghamstan, Laos, Luxembourg, Nepal,  Panama, Peru, Venezuela.
(22) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  The result of the voting is as follows: 42 in favour;
12 against; 9 abstentions; 7 absent.
(23) The resolution granting the Chinese delegation  the right to vote at the present session of the Con-  ference is therefore adopted.
(24) Before taking the second item on the agenda |  should like to make ‘t clear that the vote taken on  the admission to the right to vote of Hungary,  Czechoslovakia and Poland covers approval of the  report of the Administrative Commission on the  scale of contributions.  SCALE OF CONTRIBUTIONS AND METHODS OF FINANCING  THE BUDGET IN 1953-56 (doc. 8C/ADM/33)
(25) I call on the Rapporteur of the Administrative  Commission.
(26) Mr. ERIKSSON (Sweden) (Rapporteur of the  Administrative Commission): Mr. President,  fellow delegates; you have received this morning  the first interim report of the Administrative Com-  mission on matters relating to the ceiling of the  budget for 1955-56 - see document 8C/ADM/ 33.   PLENARY  You will find ir. that report, under paragraph i,  Scale of Contributions, that the Administrative  Commission recommends the adoption of the draft  resolution which appears on page 5 of document
8C/ADM/31. That is the second interim report of  the Committee on Contributions, on Scale of  Contributions. ‘
(27) I will take the main points in that report. We  recommend that the scale of contributions for Mem-  ber States for 1955 and 1956 shall be calculated on  the basis of the scale of contributions adopted by the  General Assembly of the United Nations for the year
1955, suitably adjusted to take into consideration  the difference in membership between Unesco and  the United Nations, the principle that no one Member  State should in normal umes contribute more than  one-third of the budgetary appropriations of Unesco,  and the principle that in normal times the per capita  contributions of any Member State should not exceed  the per capita contribution of the Member State which  bears the highest assessment.
(28) Member States of Unesco, according to Point 2,  who are members of the United Nations shall be in-  cluded in the scale on the basis of their percentages  in the United Nations scale of assessments.
(29) Member States of Unesco who are not members  of the United Nations shall be included in the scale  on the basis of their theoretical probable percentages  in the United Nations scale. You will find those  countries listed under Point 3.
(30) The resolution further recommends that the  General Conference of Unesco shall give full effect  to the principle of per capita limitations. This  concerns five countries which are listed under  Point 4.
(31) Numbers 5, 6 and 7 are in accordance with  resolutions adopted by other sessions of the Guneral  Conference. A new point is added under No. 8: we  recommend that the contribution of Associate Mem-  bers shall be assessed at 60% of the minimum per-  centage assessment of Member States and those  contributions shall be accounted for as miscellaneous  income.
(32) Paragraph 2 of our interim report concerns  methods of financing the budget. There you have the  report of the Committee on Contributions on methods  of financing the budget (8C/ADM/32). The Admini-  strative Commission has considered this report and  adopted the following resolution:  "While agreeing to finance the budget for 1955-56  in accordance with tae Financial Regulations, re-  commends that surpluses from 1947 to 1852 in an  amount of $603,600 be retained instead of being  returned to Member States, pending a decision of  the ninth session of the General Conference,"
(33) The effect of such a decision is that the follow-  ing sums would be available for the financing of the  budget of 1955-56:  Miscellaneous Revenue........... ...$ 389,614  Assessments on new Member States .. $1, 228, 216
(34) The rest of paragraph 2, down to Point 6 inclu-  ded, is more or less to help you put in the figures  which we shall be voting on. 1 will not go into any  details. If anyone wants any information, they may  get it from the Secretariat. The main thing is, as  far as the Administrative Commission's recom-  mendations go, that we have $1, 617, 830 for the  - 181 -     MEETINGS 11-12
1955-56 budget and that $603, 600 will be retained,  instead of being returned to Member States, pend-  ing decision of the ninth session of the General  Conference.
(35) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  French): Ithank the Rapporteur of the Admini-  strative Commission, The discussion on the scale  of contributions is now open. I call on the delegate  of Jordan.
(36) Mr. SALIM (Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan):  I just want to refer to No. 7 in the resolution on  the scale of contributions, 1 feel that this para-  graph should either be deleted altogether or the  introduction of three decimal places in the scale of  contributions should be accepted, It would be im-  possible to adjust the figure unless three decimal  places were used. I do not speak on this point for  Jordan, 1 feel I am speaking for 49 countries which  have to pay more than they should,
(37) As regards No. 8 of the same resolution, I  feel that, if the minimum contribution should be  . 04%, the figure 50 should take the place of the  figure 60, for if you put the figure 60 then you  would have to use three decimal places. My re-  marks are not a formal proposal; but are intended  to explain why ! did not wish to vote on paragraph
7 of the resoluticn.
(38) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call on the deiegate of Turkey.
(39) Mr. TUNCEL ‘Turkey)(Translation from the  French): The compro nise solution just proposed  by the Committee on Contributions for the settle-  ment of arrears of contributions by payment in  instalments does not seem to us a convincing one.
1 am addressing this assembly with the sole inten-  tion of calling your attention to the fact that the  riethod proposed for payment of the two annual  sums falling due in 1955 and 1956 is a deviation  from the general principle laid down in resolution
17. 3 adopted by the seventh session of the General  Conference.
(40) I may add that the arguments advanced by the  governments of the three countries in question  would apply equally to all Member States in general  and to certain States in particular,
(41) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):
1 call on the delegate of the Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics.
(42) Mr. SOLDATOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics)( Translation from the Russian): Mr.  President, the Soviet Union delegation has already  explained in the Administrative Commission why it  is unable to support the draft resolution approving  the scale of contributions levied on Member States  of Unesco, which has now been submitted to the  plenary meeting for examination, and which in fact  is based on the scale of contributions adopted by  the United Nations.
(43) At sessions of the General Assembly and in  the United Nations Contributions Committee the  Soviet Union delegation has advanced relevant   n-12 PLENARY  arguments demonstrating that, in fixing the propor-  tion of the contributions from the Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics, the Ukrainian SSR and the Byelo-  russian SSR to the United Nations, insufficient  account was taken of the following facts: first, the  enormous destruction suffered by the economy of  the Soviet Union during the Second World War and  the fact that severa! branches of the Soviet economy  are not yet completely rehabilitated; secondly, the  difficulties experienced in obtaining foreign curren-  cies, due, as we #11 know, to the artificial barriers  erected by certain countries in the sphere of inter-  national trade, thirdly, in determining the scale of  contributions to (he United Nations, no account was  taken of the fact that the Soviet Union had joined a  number of international organizations, such as the  International Labour Organization and the United  Nations Educalional, Scientific and Cultural Organi-  zation, which entailed additional expenditire in  foreign currencies by the Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics, the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic  and the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic.
(44) The Soviet Union delegation considers that the  above factors should also be taken into iccount  when determining the share of contributions to  Unesco to be paid by the Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics, the Ukrainian SSR and the 13velorussian  SSR. The Soviet Union delegation considers that the  rates of contribution to Unesco of the countries in  question would be correctly assessed as follows:  Soviet Union - 10 per cent, Ukrainian SR - 1 per  cent, Byelorussian SSR - 0. 45 per cent. A proposal  in this sense was submitted for the consideration of  the Administrative Commission, but fiiled to gain  the necessary support. The section of the draft  resolution concerning the scale of cortributions pro-  vides for increases in the contributios to be paid  by the USSR, the Ukrainian SSR and the Byelorussian  SSR which the Soviet Union delegation cannot accept.  Further, the Administrative Commission, when  dealing with the scale of contributions, discussed  the question of the amounts to be contributed by the  United States of America. The proposal submitted  to the Administrative Commission that the contribu-  tion of the United States of America should remain  - 182 -     MEETINGS  at its previous level, namely, 33.3 per cent, was  not adopted. The Soviet Union delzgation considers  that there were no grounds for this decision, and for  this reason also objects to the scale of contributions  submitted for approval by the plenary meeting. In  view of the above considerations the Soviet Union  delegafion will vote against the scale of contrit tions  and the relevant draft resolution submitted by the  Administrative Commission for the consideration  of the plenary meeting.
(45) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  We shall now vote by show of hands on the repart of  the Administrative Commission on the scale of  contributions.
(46) The scale of contributions is adopted by 47 votes  in favour, 10 against and 2 abstentions.
(47) I call on the delegate of Greece.
(48) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece)(Translation from  the French): Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen,  we have pointed out to the Administrative Commission  the illogicality of the proposal that the former  member countries which have now rejuined the  Organization snould pay their contributions in  local currencies; we can see no reason for this  change in the method of payment since nothing  special has havpened in the meantime.
(49) At the plenary meeting we pointed out that  the Greek delegation fully endorsed the point of  view put forward by the Turkish delegation.
(50) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  We shall now proceed to a vote by show of hands  on the second item on the agenda: methods of  financing the budget.
(51) The method of financing the budget was  adopted by 50 votes in favour, 3 against and 6  abstentions,  The meeting rose at 12,05 p.m.