(85) Mr. W.CARTER(Chief, Exchange of Persons Ser-  vice) did not recall an actual project on the exchange  of young scientists. He felt however that scientists  had a great many opportunities of travel, particularly  in the field of research. The university grants  for the regional cultural studies project were one  way of broadening the interests of young teachers  and advanced s‘udents.  PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  Summary Tables I and II (paragraphs 107-111)
(86) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) welcomed the  strengthening of the staff. It would make it easier  to maintain the essential contact with National  Commissions.  The meeting rose at 12,45 p.m.  ELEVENTH MEETING
8 November 1954 at 10 a.m.  Chairman : Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Australia)  ITEM 7.2 OF THE AGENDA: PRELIMINARY CONSIDERATION  OF THE DRAFT PROGRAMME AND BUDGET FOR 1955-36  BEFORE THE OPENING OF THE SESSION (continued)  DEPARTMENT OF MASS COMMUNICATION
(1) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Communi-  cation) submitted the proposed programme for his  Department. To fecrestall any potential ambiguity  arising from the dual or even tripartite character of  the activities of the Department of Mass Communica-  tion, the Director-General had endeavoured to draw  a clear distinction between its different functions.  First, there was publicity, designed to reach the ‘er  lightened" sectors and the mastes. Its tasks were  (a) to explain why Unesco existed, what it was, what  it did and what it would do in future; (b) to foster in-  ternational understanding by devoting a considerable  part of its activities to propaganda for the United Na-  tions and the Specialized Agencies and ensuring that  the press, radio and visual means of communication  gave support to the constitutional aims of Unesco,  namely human rights, fundamental education, the  struggle against illiteracy and against racial discri-  mination, and so forth. That work demanded close  co-operation with the other Unesco departments and  could be developed effectively only with the help of  Member States and their National Commissions. Pro-  jects under this heading had been placed under general  activities, Section I,items 5.1 and 5.2, "A. Public  information and the promotion of international un-  derstanding’. For the first time, large sums had  been provided to help certain Member States and  their National Commissions translate and adapt Unes-  co publications and documents, organize meetings de-  signed to further international understanding, etc.  That propaganda work, which everyone agread was  needed, absorbed by itself 53% of the staff and 50% of  the proposed budget for the Department, not includ-  ing the sums set aside for the latter's direction. The  service was one which had to be made available to the  entire Organization, as well as to the United Nations  and Specialized Agencies, It was a functionto which    the Director-General attached the greatest importance  and which was not peculiar to Unesco, since all the  other Specialized Agencies of th: United Nations de-  voted large sums to their publicity work - although  less than Unesco in proportion to their budgets,
(2) Mr. Desja.dins went on to the programme activi-  ties proper which Unesco was constitutionally obliged  to undertake, These were found under Section I, B,  Assistance in development of mass communication,  reduction of obstacles to the free flow of information  (by causing Member States to adhere to international  conventions and administrative arrangements), mass  communication clearing house, exchange and stimula-  tion of educational, scientific and cultural programmes.  Some of those activities would also be found uader  Section I, items 5.3 and 5.4. On the other hand,  projects under item 5.5 (organization of pilot projects  and research in the new techniques to facilitate devel  opment of mass communication in Member States and  enable full use to be made of them for educational,  scientific and cultural aims) had been placed, together  with technical aid to Member States in the development  of their mass communication services (item 5.6) un-  der Section II, Special Activities, consisting, on the  one hand, of pilot projects (item 5.5) and, on te other  hand, of projects for technical aid (item 5.6), This  part of the programme absorbed about 28% of the st .’f  of the Department, and 28% of the total appropriations  requested, plus 8% for technical assistance missions  tc Member States. It had to be emphasized that 70%  of the proposed budget for these forms of assistance  towards developing means oi communication concern  ed almost exclusively the underdeveloped regions,  while the remaining 30% was devoted to activities of  interest to all Member States. In addition, all the  projects envisaged under items 5.3, 5.4, 5.5 and5.6  closely corresponded to requests which Unesco had  been receiving for several years past from the Eco-  nomic and Social Council (especially the seventeenth  session, held in April last) and from the General As-  sembly of the United Nations. Mr. Desjardins stated  that some of the projects were carried out jointly, or  in close co-operation,with the Departments of Education,  - 709 -   VI-11 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON  Social Sciences and Cultural Activities, and his De-  partment naturally worked in constant liaison with  Technical Assistance and the Exchange of Persons  Service. The activities of the Department were, in  other words, very largely linked with the activities of  other Unesco departments. In conciusion, Mr. Des-  jardins mentioned project 5, 7 cf Section II: Voluatary  international assistance, which covered activities that  were also very valuable and had been approved by  many Member States: these were activities of a some-  wi.st speclal'technical natu:e and some of them (e.g.  item 5.71 - Unesco Coupon Scheme) were designed to  facilitate the flow of educational, scientific and cul-  tural materials, as well as the exchange of persons.  Another item. 5.72, concerned the Gift Coupon pro-  gramme, which, he pointed out, had an undeniable  propaganda and publicity value. Twenty per cent of  the staff and 14% of the budget of the whole Depart-  ment were absorbed by this last function. Mr. Des-  jardins said he had marely described the various  objectives of the Department; he proposed to give the  Committee, as discussion of the programme proceed  ed, any additional explanations which might clarify  certain parts of the projects submitted to it.
(3) The CHAIRMAN asked for discussion of the chap-  ter as a whole before the projects were examined in  detail.
(4) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) wished to paytrr  bute to the Director of the Department of Mass Com-  munication for his work in preparing the programme;  his absence was to be regretted. The scope of the  activities of the Department of Mass Communication  was so wide that that Department alone could easily  use up the whole of Unesco's budget. It was, more-  over, a Department which provided Member States  with good opportunities for collaboration, and he con-  sidered that the Organization should call upon them to  participate more closely. It had been underlined that  Unesco acted as a publicity agent not only for itself  but also for the United Nations and the other Speciali-  zed Agencies, He was uneasy on the matter of co-  ordination, since the other agencies had their own  budgets for propaganda, Unesco might well look to  the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies for  financial assistance. Mr. Cowell proposed that,owing  to the varied nature of the objectives pursued by the  Mass Communication Department, the Programme  Commission should establish a working party to study  the structure of that Department.
(5) Mr. LEE (United States of America) emphasized  the primary need at this stage of Unesco's program-  me for a dynamic and imaginative programme of pub-  lic information on its work rather than for clearing  house activities, studies, agreements and elimination  of obstacles. He did not consider that new resolutions  were necessary for that purpose, but hoped that at  would be achieved by the proposed administrative  changes.
(6) Mr. CHAYET (France) agreed with the United  Kingdom delegate and considered that the problem of  the structure of the Department of Mass Communica-  tion should be thoroughly examined. The United  Kingdom delegate had rightly recommended to the    PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  Programme and Budget Commission that it should lay  particular stress op this problem. Mr. Chayet was  also in favour of setting up à working party to study the  division of functions in the Mass Communication De-  partment. On the other point raised by the United  Kingdom delegate, Mr. Chayet felt too that close at-  tention should be paid to the assistance given by Unes-  co towards developing the mass communication  services of countries badly equipped in that respect;  that was, indeed, one of the essential tasks of the  Organization,
(7) The CHAIRMAN asked whether the Committee  would agree to the proposal that the attention of the  Programme and Budget Commission should be drawn  to the need to examine the organization and structure  of the Department.
(9) The Chairman then invited discussion of the  programme in detail.  Project 5.1: Public information and promotion of in-  ternational understanding by Member States  (paragraphs 15-28)
(10) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Communi  cation) stated that this project dealt with direct assist  ance to Member States and National Commissions -  assistance which had repeatedly been requested and  was now being extended for the first time. He had no-  thing to add to the text of the programme, which was  sufficiently explicit.
(11) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway), referring topara-  graph 12, recalled the doubts expressed by his and  other delegations at the previous Conference, He asked  the Secretariat whether it was satisfied with the results  of its initiative.
(12) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Commu-  nication) said that the work done so far was only a be-  ginning, based on requests received. Whether the  experiment would be developed or not would depend on  results.
(13) The CHAIRMAN said that the project had been in-  cluded in the programme on the recommenuation of a  meeting of National Commissions at the time of the  seventh session of the General Conference, and that it  had been understood that Unesco and the National Com  missions should contribute to it jointly, He wondered  how far that policy had been kept to during the past  year.
(14) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) asked how far  Member States had contributed to the project.
(15) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) said  that the idea had been mooted at the last session of the  General Conference by several delegations, the Swe-  dish delegation in particular, in connexion with assist  ance to National Commissions, The experiment made  in 1953-54 had had most encouraging results, many  requests having been submitted to the Secretariat.Wth  a very small amount of money - afew hundred dollars -  - 710 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET Vi-11  the National Commissions had been able to carry out  a programme of translations which would have cost  Unesco several thousand dollars; the total sum pro-  posed, $15,000 for the two years, was small when it  was remembered that Unesco now had 72 Member  States. The appropriations so far granted ranged  from $370 to $1,075. He could show the Committee  the list of countries with which contracts had been  concluced.
(16) In answer to a question by the CHAIRMAN, the  Assistant Director-General indicated that the contri-  butions of Member States had always exceeded that of  Unesco, sometimes by as much as fifteen or twenty  times.
(17) Mr. BOW (Canada) asked whether the contracts  for 1955-56 included printing or whether they covered  only translation.
(18) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  munication) said that only adaptation and translation  were envisaged for the present.
(19) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) said that the programme  was a very important one. At present the majority  of Unesco's publications were in English, Frencha..d  Spanish, which were not understood in large areas of  the world; if they were to reach a wider public,it was  essential to increase the number of languages. He  proposed that the programme should be given a higher  priority.
(20) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) proposed that,  since the work was of a scope wider than the pro-  gramme of the Department of Mass Communication,  discussion be deferred until the question of  regionalization came up.
(21) Mr, MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) said  that the Secretariat endorsed the suggestion that there  should be a special enquiry by a working party into  the administrative structure of the Department. The  working party might also consider the scope to be  given to paragraph 19,
(22) The CHAIRMAN interpreted the proposal of the  United Kingdom delegate to mean that the activity in  question was a case which the proposed working party  might discuss,
(23) The proposal of the delegate of India, seconded  by the delegate of the German Federal Republic, to  raise the priority of sub-project (A) (paragraph 18),  was adopted by 9 votes to nil with 2 abstentions. It  was agreed that the report of the Committee should  include a combined reference to the proposal of the  delegate of the United Kingdom and that of the  delegate of India.
(24) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom), referring to  paragraph 25, expressed surprise that a project en-  titled Direct Action by Member States should entail a  cost to Unesco of $10,000 for the years 195546.  He proposed the reduction of the budgetary pro-  vision in paragraph 28 to $100,000 spread  over 1955 and 1856,
(25) The CHAIRMAN,speaking as delegate of Aus-  tralia, questioned the use of Unesco funds for suchac-  tivities, He considered the first example given ir  paragriph 26 ill chosen, since the Australian authori  ties, in producing the documentary film on Unesco in  action in that country, had done without financial help  from Unesco.
(26) Mr. LEE (United States of America) supported  the views of the Australian delegate and said that he  would like to see more emphasis put on activity and  financial support by Member States. He, for his part,  did not like the idea of Unesco financing the organiza-  tion of "Unesco weeks" in Member States (paragraph
(27) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) agreed with the  preceding speakers and was in favour of reducirz the  budgetary provision.
(28) Mr. BOW (Canada), while supporting the view of  the United Kingdom delegate, pointed out that the Com-  mittee had not previously made recommendations on  the specific allocation of funds. He asked whether the  United Kingdom delegate would agree to limit his pro-  posal to lowering the priority of the project, provided  that his suggestion regarding the budget appeared in  the summary records,
(29) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) agreed to modify  his proposal accordingly.
(30) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) was in favour of the bud-  getary reduction proposed by the delegate of the Uni-  ted Kingdom, and would further assign to the $10,000  a lower priority. The proposal was supported by the  United Kingdom delegate, and adopted by 9 votes to  nil with one abstention.
(31) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) point-  ed out that it would be as well to make it clear th={the  lower priority accorded to this activity by the Commit-  tee referred only to the budget allocation and not to  the substance of the project,  Project 5.2: Public information and premotion of  international understand: .g by Unesco  Paragraphs 29-42
(32) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  munication) said that this project covered the whole of  the activi.12s of the Press Division. In reply to the  delegate of Norway, he stated that the amounts set  aside for travel in paragraph 42 applied to all the pre-  ceding paragraphs. Journeys had been made to many  countries, for instance, to Or,uaize press confer-  ences in countries visited by the Director-General,to  produce topical articles and to collect on-the-spot in-  formation. All these were activities which had re-  sulted in the publication of articles in the Courier or  in ‘he preparation of booklets which had been  distributed.
(33) Mr. JUNANKAR (India), recalling the statement  of the United S.ates delegate, considered that the in--  formation projramme should be leas concerned with  - 711 -   VI-11 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  publicizing Unesco, the United Nations and the other  Specialized Agencies. A co .'ructive approach to  the problem was needed.
(34) Mr, LEE (United States of America) agreed with  the delegate of India. Information should be concen-  trated on constructive Unesco work in progress, for  example, seminars, technical assistance missions,  experimental studies and other such activities, with  a view to informing a public which was unaware of  what was being done.
(35) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) supported the  view of the United States delegate. He felt also that  there was insufficient reference to co-operation with  Member States and National Commissions, especially  in paragraphs 31, 32 and 35.
(36) He regretted that limited tin.e often made 1t pos-  sible only to raise points of criticism, but he wished  to pay a tribute to the Director-General for his many  achievements. The United Kingdom delegation had  in the past criticized the Unesco Courter, and he was  pleased to see that it had now greatly improved.
(37) Turning to paragranh 42, he asked whether staff  travel, which accounted for a large sum, could be ac-  commodated under paragraph 24, which provided for  staff travel in connexion with activities in Member  States.
(38) Finally, he proposed that resolution 5,2 should  be expanded by the insertion of the following words af-  ter "authorized" in the first line: "with the co-opera-  tion of National Commissions and Member States",
(39) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) supported the proposal by  the United Kingdom delegate in regard to resolution
(40) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) en-  dorsed the remarks of the United Kingdom delegate on  co-operation with National Commissions and co-ordi-  nation with the United Nations and the Specialized  Agencies; the Secretariat always kept both those  matters in mind.
(41) The proposal of the United Kingdom delegate was  adopted.
(42) The CHAIRMAN, speaking as Australian dele-  gate, referred to the press clippings service. The  Australian authorities considered the cost of this ser-  vice excessive and he would iike some information on  results.
(43) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  munication) said that only one staff member was em-  ployed on the work, The press clippings service was  of great importance in giving information on world  reaction to Unesco; unfortunately, owing to insuf-  ficient funds, it was only possible to subscribe to  services in a limited number of countries.
(44) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) ad-  mitted that the total cost of making this world press  survey was rather high, but it was essential for the  Secretariat to know the attitude of the press in the dif-  ferent countries towards Unesco. Some of the un-  favourable comments rested upon misunderstandings    or were due to inadequate information which it was im-  portant to dispel or supplement by promptly issuing a  corrective,
(45) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom), while sympathi  zing with the Australian point of view, was impressed  by the explanations of the value of the service. How  ever, the service was an internal one for the whole of  Unesco, and its use was not limited to the Department  of Mass Cominunication. It might therefore be shift-  ed to another part of the Organization, more centrally  placed, and he proposed that it should be inciuded  among the items to be considered within the  framework of the administrative study.
(46) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) considered that the taskof  compiling a press review could be carried out by the  National Commissions and the regional offices of Unes-  co, which could send monthly or periodic reports as  convenient. In that way the work could be done at  lower cost and with great efficiency.
(47) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) said  that the Unesco regional offices were already doing  this, but they also had to subscribe to press clipping  agencies. The Secretariat would be happy to see the  work done by the National Commissions, but he doubt  ed whether this was possible. The delegate of Mexico  had advocated reports every month, but that would be  far too long an interval. If Unesco's reactions were  to be effective, it would have to get the information  promptly.
(48) In reply to the CHAIRMAN, Mr. DESJARDINS  (Department of Mass Communicatio:.) said that his De-  partment received every week nearly a thousand press  cuttings in over twenty languages.
(49) Mr. BOW (Canada) recognized the importance of  the service and asked whether the contracts in para-  graph 42 applied to this service only or to the whole of  project (A).
(50) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  munication) said that the figures applied to the project  as a whole, $3,000 being in respect of the press  clipping service.
(51) Mr, JUNANKAR (India) asked how helpful the  analysis of the reactions of the public through press  cuttings had been in planning the programme of the  Organization.
(52) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) said  that the Secretariat took those reactions into account,  while continuing touse its own judgment in deciding on  the general lines of the programme - and still more on  how to carry it out,
(53) The CHAIRMAN drew attention to the United King  dom delegate 's proposal that the press cuttings ser-  vice should be discussed in connexion with reorganiza-  tion of the activities of the Department of Mass Ccm  munication. There being no objection, the Rap-  porteur was asked to take note accordingly.  - 712 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON  paragraphs 43-50
(54) The Chairman drew attention to document 8C/  PRG/18 concerning the Unesco Courier,
(55) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  munication) said that the situation of the Courier was  clearly set forth in document 8C/PRG/18. Since the  format of the publication had been changed, it had  made some progress and sales were much better. De-  tailed figures of the number of copies printed, as well  as of sales, with individual sales figures for thosc  countries where the propaganda campaign was pro-  ceeding, were given in the document mentioned. He  added that the annual income from subscriptions  amounted to over $15,000,
(56) The CHAIRMAN asked whether paragraph 46 con  tained the whole appropriation for the Unesco Courier,  or whether there were additional estimates in other  parts of the programme.
(57) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Programme  and Budget) replied that the figures did not cover ali  the costs: the remainder came from the Publications  Fund.
(58) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel), while reading and appre-  ciating the Courier, did not understand its purpose.  Paragraph 43 indicated that it was focused at school-  teacher and university undergraduate level, but the  number of teachers alone exceeded the circulation  figures which had been given.
(59) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) said  that the intention in mentioning students and teachers  was to give some indication of the cultural level of the  public at which the Secretariat was aiming, without,  however, suggesting that this would be the only public  affected. While sales were still lower than the num-  ber of copies printed, a rapid increase in sales could  nevertheless be observed, and for the first time it  appeared that the future could be regarded  optimistically.
(60) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) asked for figures  on the cost of the Courier for the period 1953-54.
(61) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Programme  and Budget) replied that he would provide the answer  a little later.
(62) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel), supportedby Mr, COWELL  (United Kingdom), suggested that the following ques-  tion be studied: whether the Unesco Courier was ne-  cessary, and whether its function might not be  fulfilled by other publications.
(63) It was agreed that the point should be included in  the Committee's report.
(64) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) asked whether the work  of the joint information mission proposed in paragraph
49 was not already being performed by the United Na-  tions and the Specialized Agencies themselves.
(65) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass    PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VvIi-t1  Communication) stated that the reference was to joint  missions the costs of which were shared equally by  four Specialized Agencies - UNICEF, WHO, FAO and  Unesco, each paying 25%; the missions deal witu  both press and radio.
(66) In reply to the United Kingdom delegate, Mr .Des-  Jardins said that members of the Secretariat some -  times took part in these missions, but that 1t was pre-  ferable for them to be led by well-known journalists,  whose articles would be sure to have a better recep-  tion in the press. In reply to a question by the CHAIR-  MAN, Mr. Desjardins explained that the travel expen-  ses of members of the Secretariat who formed part of  such missions were included in the staff travel costs  mentioned in paragraph 42.
(67) The CHAIRMAN expressed surprise at this ex-  planation; he had always understood that the budgetary  provisions shown with each project were directly re-  lated to it, Such flexibility in the application of re-  sources was a new factor, which would have to be  considered seriously.
(68) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) added  that the inclusion in these joint missions of journalists  from outside the Secretariat had the twofold advantage  of securing the services of journalists with world-wide  reputation and of allowing them a freedom of expres-  sion that was not permissible to international officials.  The missions were sometimes organized so as to fitin  with staff travel; that was in conformity with a recom  mendation by the General Conference, which invited  the Director-General to ensure, whenever possible,  that members of the Secretariat who were travelling  were used for several purposes, so far as their com-  petence permitted. Thus the travel provided for in  paragraph 42 might assist the missions envisaged in  paragraph 50, the budget for which, however, covered  only contracts with persons outside Unesco.
(69) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) asked whether a  document could be produced isolating staff travel acti-  vities, with a view to ascertaining whether there was  any overlapping.
(70) Turning to paragraph 49, he asked what evidence  there was to justify the word "successful", He pro-  posed, and Mr. JUNANKAR (India) seconded, that the  project be given a lower priority.
(71) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) point-  ed out that no travelling expenses were provided for in  connexion with paragraphs 49 and 50, but journeys in-  tended for other purposes might very well be used to  implement these two paragraphs.
(72) The proposal of the United Kingdom delegate,se-  conded by the delegate of India, was adopted by 6 votes  to 1, with 3 abstentions.  Paragraphs 51-64: Co-operation with radio organiza-  tions and production of recorded radio programmes
(73) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Commu-  nication), in presenting this part of the programme,  recalled that activities in this field comprised, inter  alia, the preparation of weekly scripts designed for  broadcasting stations and known as the Unesco World  - 713 -   VI-t1  Review, which contained two five-minute talks and a  radio newsreel. It served broadcasting organizations  in 115 countries with an audience of about 100 million  listeners every week. Another activity consisted of  recordings of interviews, and the p1eparation of re-  corded programmes for organizations which asked for  them. Finally, in order to encourage national orga-  nizatioas to broadcast certain programmes ,producers  belonging to broadcasting organizations in Member  States whose language was not one of the Unesco work-  ing languages were invited to take courses at the Se-  cretariat, where they prepared the basic essentials  fora series of broadcasts intended for their own coun  try. That system had produced excellent results and  the Secretariat proposed to extend it.
(74) In reply to an earlier question from the Chair-  man, Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Programme  and Budget) said that the printing costs of the Courier  in 1953 were $40,000, The increase for 1955-56 was  due to the new format and an increased circulation,
(75) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom), reverting to  paragraphs 51-64, considered the Radio Division  among the most successful activities of the Depart-  ment of Mass Communication. He asked whether  there had been an increase in the number of receiving  countries.
(76) Mr, DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Commu-  nication) replied that the broadcast had expanded and  requests had steadily increased during the past two  years.
(77) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) asked whether any action  had been taken to ensure the broadcasting of Unesco  announcements over commercial radio networks. In  some cases it was difficult to induce such companies  to take part in this publicity, but in others it was often  possible to obtain collaboration,
(78) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  munication) said that the Secretariat had established  contact with commercial broadcasting organizations  in many countries. These organizations warmly we}  comed scripts with an educational, scientific or cul-  tural value, which they bad themselves no means of  preparing and which were transmitted outside . their  commercial programmes; numerous contacts of this  kind had been made, in particular with South  American countries,
(79) The CHAIRMAN, referring to paragraph 64,pro-  ject (F), asked why the cost of equipment was $4,500  in 1955 but ucreased to $15,000 in 1956,
(80) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Programme  and Budget) explained that the 1956 figure included the  cost of new equipment for studios in the new  headquarters building,
(81) The CHAIRMAN wondered if such equipment  should be included in the estimates for the new  building.
(82) Mr. DESJARDINS (Deoartment of Mass Com-  municationjconfirmed that the entire studio installation,    ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  sound-proofing, etc. was covered by the funds provid.  ed for the construction of the new Unesco building, but  there were some expenses, such as the adaptation of  existing apparatus to the new premises, which would  be borne by the Department of Mass Communication,
(83) The CHAIRMAN said that he was not entirely sa-  tisfied by that explanation and asked to what exact use  the additional appropriation of $10,000 would be put,
(84) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) asked  that the Secretariat be given time to refer to the de-  tailed estimates for the construction of the new  building.
(85) Mr. BOW (Canada) asked for an assurance that  there were no hidden costs for the new headquarters in  the 1955-56 budget in ie present document.
(86) Mr, MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) gave  that assurance; he repeated, as Mr. Desjardins had  already stated, that the studio installation was includ-  ed in the plans for the new building. All that was re-  ferred to here was the adaptation of existing apparatus  to the new building and it was that point which he had  asked for time to check upon,
(87) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) compared the al  locations for the Unesco World Review in paragraph 53  with those for the production of recorded radio pro-  grammes in paragraph 64, The World Review, with  its comparatively small cost, was obtaining excellent  results; did the $70,000 in paragraph 64 produce  proportionately greater results?
(88) Mr, DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  munication) said that the method of inviting "guest-  producers’ would bring in five or six countries,where-  as that of sending programmes to broadcasting orga-  nizations would extend to about 115 countries, with  consequent reduced expenditure and the certainty of  obtaining much greater results. He considered that  both methods were valuable and that both were  necessary.  Paragraphs 65-71
(89) Mr, LEE (United States of America), referring  to the proposed exhibitions in paragraph 65, suggest-  ed that the exhibitions programme be reviewed by a  working party of the Programme Commission,
(90) With regard to the use of certain terms in the  chapter, the United States National Commission had  emphasized the desirability of "on-the-spot" reporting  as opposed to "exclusive or semi-exclusive" stories  referred to in paragraph 70.
(81) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel), referring to paragraph 66,  asked if it would be necessary to produce an exhibition  if the next Conference were held elsewhere than in  Unesco House,
(92) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) ex-  plained that all the budget estimates had beendrawn  up on the assumption that the next session of the Ge-  neral Conference would take place in Paris, but  obviously, if the session were to be held elsewhere,  - 714 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON  the words "in Unesco house" would have to be  deleted from paragraph 88.
(93) Mr. BOW (Canada) asked whether the cost of the  exhibition in question would be higher if the  Conference were not held in Paris.  (#4) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) said  that the Director-General was placing before the Con-  ference a document about an invitation for the ninth  session, which would come up for discussion by the  Conference. At the moment it was difficult to give  any exact details of the possible effects which accep-  tance of this invitation would have on the cost of the  exhibition; transport charges would obviously have to  be added to the proposed budget, but money might be  saved by constructing certain parts of the exhibition  on the spot.  Paragraphs 72-77
(95) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) considered that the cine-  ma made a powerful contribution to international un-  derstanding; many people obtained much clearer ideas  about other countries as a result of its influence. Unes-  co was carrying out effective and well-defined work in  that direction, However, the production of education  al films should be based on three conditions: (a) use  should aiways be made of technicians who were na-  tionals of the country where the film was to be made,  so as to save costs and to avoid overdoing the folklore  aspect; (b) approval of the script should be sought of  the National Commission in the country where the film  was to be made; and (c) permission to show the film  should be obtained from the government concerned.
(96) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  munication) assured the Mexican delegate that the Se -  cretariat would duly note his observations; it was ob-  viously desirable to ensure co-operation by govern-  ments and National Commissions and, so far as they  existed, by local producers, when making films in  collaboration with Member States.
(87) Mr. FREY (German Federal Republic) consider  ed that efforts should be made to find {ilm subjects  which reflected regional points of view, rather than  such as might be of interest to the world as a whole;  it would be useful if a committee of experts were in-  structed to study the scenarios of films approved for  production and see that regional points of view were  respected,
(98) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom), referring to  paragraph 73, asked for amore detailed justification  of the allocation for a film, which he consideredhigh.
(99) With regard to project (K), he proposed that pa-  ragraphs 76 and 77 be deleted, Priority could not be  given to small prizes of that nature, and the United  Kingdom Commission doubted whether they were the  best kind of stimulus in the field,
(100) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  munication) referred to the success achieved bythe  film "World Without End",    PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VI-11
(101) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) proposed a lower priority  for paragraphs 72-75.
(102) In reply to Mr. JUNANKAR (India, Mr. DES-  JARDINS (Department of Mass Communication) regret-  ted that Africa had been omitted in error from the re-  gions mentioned in paragraph 74.
(103) The proposal of the delegate of Israel, seconded  by the delegate of the United Kingdom, was adopted by
8 votes to 1 with 2 abstentions,
(104) Mr. CABOUAT (France) recalled that the pro-  ject mentioned in paragraphs 76 and 77 was the out-  come of the work of a Committee set up by the Execu-  tive Board, He would like to know the conclusions  reached by that Committee, which must have been of  a positive nature, seeing that the project had been  included in the programme.
(105) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) con-  firmed that the project was the outcome of a proposal  submitted to the Executive Board; the special commit-  tee had met during the Board's thirty-seventh session  last March, and had made certain proposals which the  Director-General had translated into a work and ap-  propriations programme. The document prepared by  the Executive Board, he added, had been addressed to  all Member States.
(106) Mr, LEE (United States of America) seconded  the motion to omit paragraphs 76 and 77.
(107) Mr, CABOUAT (France)stated that inthe French  delegation's view the method of international compe-  titions was likely to give good results for smaller ex-  penditure, and it also had the advantage of awakening  public interest in Unesco and its aims, He formally  moved that no vote be :aken on the motion by the dele-  gate of the United Kingdom until the representative of  the Executive Board had given his views.
(109) Mr. CHAYET (France) noticed that in discussing  the means of publicity used by the Secretariat no re-  ference had been made to topical newsreels, Were  there any difficulties which militated against the use  of such means of information?
(110) Mr, DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  munication) said he would revert to the point in  connexion with paragraphs 158 and 159.  Assistance in development of mass communication  (paragraphs 78-180) and Project 5.3: Free flow of  information (paragraphs 81-126)
(111) Mr, Desjardins briefly reviewed the activities  of the Division for the Free Flow of Information and of  the Mass Communication Clearing House, Their tasks  consisted mainly in reducing obstacles to the flow of  information and in sssembling, for redistribution, in-  formation capable of contributing towards the develop-  ment of national information centres in Member States.
(112) Mr. COWELL, (United Kingdom) said that Unesco's  - 715 -   VI-11  initiative in this field involved certain diplomatic dif-  ficulties, and it was essential that staff in the section  be maintained at an adequate level to deal with the  various programmes involved and to carry out the ne-  cessary negotiations in a diplomatic manner. He was  opposed to the extension of international conventions  and did not consider the international instrument pro-  posed in paragraph 94 necessary. He would like more  information on negotiations with international agencies,  in particular the International Labour Organization.
(113) The CHAIRMAN drew attention to document 8C/  PRG/8.
(114) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  munication) said that the draft international instru-  ment to reduce obstacles to the free movement of per-  sons engaged in educational, scientific and cultural  activities and wishing to travel for purposes connect-  ed with those activities (document 8C/PRG/8) was an  extremely technical one andhe thought it would be ne-  cessary to set up a special working party to examine  the proposal in detail.
(115) The CHAIRMAN proposed that the matter be  left to this special working party.  {.16) Mr. LEE (United States of America, associated  himself with the remarks of the United Kingdom dele-  gate. He was concerned with the free flow of infor-  mation and wished to see no lessening of Unesco's in-  terest in reducing barriers; at the same time success  must not be jeopardized by over-emphasis of the le-  gal approach, He supported the Chairman's proposal
(117) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  munication) said that the sixth and seventh sessions of  the Conference had already decided it was advisable  to take that action; it would be a good thing if a small  working party elaborated the details before the  question was discussed by the Commission.
(118) Mr. CHAYET (France) said that the French de-  legation would like the Secretariat to examine under  what conditions technical equipment used for broad-  casting or television could be temporarily imported  for programme exchanges; an enquiry by Unesco on  that point would be valuable.
(119) The CHAIRMAN asked if the French proposal  could be included in an existing resolution; otherwise  the French delegation would have to submit a formal  proposal for consideration by the Executive Beard.
(120) It was agreed that mention would be made of  the proposal of the delegate of France in the Report.
(121) Replying to the Chairman, Mr. DESJARDINS  (Department of Mass Communication) said it appeared  at first sight that the French delegate's proposal could  be taken over by the Secretariat and incorporated in  the resolution on the programme without additional  cost; it might be that after further study, proposals  for fresh action would prove necessary. The Secre-  tariat would study the point and give a reply shortly.
(122) In reply to the United States delegate's question  whether the Secretariat had any definite subject in    ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  mind in connexion with paragraph 125, Mr. Desjardins  said that a study entitled "The Printed Word", would  go to press at the beginning of 1955; it had been pre-  pared by Mr. Barker, Assistant Secretary of the Bri-  tish Publishers’ Society; one study which had already  appeared would be revised with a view to a second edi-  tion and a new study would be prepared for 1955-56;  the choice of the subject submitted to the Executive  Board would depend on how mass communication pro-  blerrs developed. It might perhaps usefully deal with  schedules of press charges; he had no formal proposal  to make at the moment,  Project 5.4: Clearing house and exchange and stimu-  lation of educational, scientific and cultural program-  mes (paragraphs 127-142)
(123) Mr. Desjardins pointed out that the function  of the clearing house was to ensure wide dissemination  of existing knowledge. He listed the resultant activi-  ties as follows: the clearing house published bulletins  and booklets which were put out for sale; requests ad-  dressed to the clearing house amounted on an average  to 10 a day, and some of them entailed a greal deal of  work, sometimes lasting several months. The num-  ber of publications had been reduced, but it was essen  tial, now and then, to issue a publication which filled  a real need; such bulletins, which were mimeographed  and did not appear regularly, gave detailed informa-  tion solely intended for specialists.
(124) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom), referring to  paragraph 127, asked what justification there was for  an additional increase in costs.
(125) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  munication) drew attention to the breakdown in para-  graph 162 (a) of the Corrigendum and explained that  the additional money came either from the Department  of Cultural Activities or from the Department of Mass  Communication.
(126) On the CHAIRMAN's proposal, it was agreed to  defer discussion until paragraph 162 was reached.  Paragraphs 143-145: Press, film and radio for  children
(127) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  munication) stated, with reference to paragraph 143,  that a resolution had been submitted to the seventh  session of the General Conference by the Italian dele-  gation, asking for the creation of an international or-  ganization to safeguard children from the possible  adverse influences of cinema,radio and press. Document
8C/PRG/16 contained the replies received from var-  ious Member States. It was therefore proposed to  hold a meeting of a small committee of experts to de-  termine future action by Unesco in this field; later  contracts would have to be concluded with an interna-  tional orgamzation in order to set up a clearing house  for information of a specialized nature.
(128) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom), referring to  paragraph 143, said that, since the activity was of na-  tional concern, it should suffice for Unesco to draw to  - 716 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET vi-11  it the attention of Member States. He proposed a  lower priority for the item.
(128) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  munication) said, with reference to paragraph 144,  that it had been proposed, as a result of the very de-  tailed recommendations of the experts who met at  Locarno, to continue the information work witha view  to drawing up a list of films recommended for chil-  dren and adolescents, to prepare a yearbook of pro-  ducers of such films, to plan a conference to study  related psychological problems and to organize an in-  formation centre on children's films. Unesco had  agreed to prepare the list of films and had collected  about 2,000 titles; it did not propose to finance the  organization of a conference, which might be held as  part of other meetings already envisaged. The World  Brotherhood might lend its support for the execution  of this plan. The International Centre was considered  the most urgent project, with a view to encourag-  ing the production of films for children. The Secre-  tariat estimated a budget of $6,000, of which $2,000  would be for a meeting of experis, and $2,000 would  be used annually to subsidize the centre.
(130) Mr. LEE (United States of America) supported  the proposal of the United Kingdom delegate, There  were important research pro ' ‘ammes undertaken in  many parts of the world, and Unesco could therefore  in the interest of concentration devote 1ts limited re-  sources to other fields which called for its action.
(131) Mr. CHAYET (France) insisted that, on the  contrary, the problems raised by paragraphs 143 and
144 were of great importance. The sums placed at  the disposal of the Department for the purpose were  relatively small and they should be left unchanged as  exemplifying the importance of such exchanges of in-  formation in enabling each State to solve its own  difficulties.
(132) Mr. CABOUAT (France) £-ked whether any  contacts had been established with the International  Children's Centre and what had bee . the results, if any.
(133) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  munication) said that he had been in communication    with a representative of the Centre, but pending a de-  cision by the General Conference negotiations had not  gone any further.
(134) The CHAIRMAN asked for a vote on the United  Kingdom delegate's proposal to reduce the priority of  project (B), paragraphs 143-145.
(135) The proposal was adopted by 7 votes to 4 with 1  abstention.  Paragraphs 146-148: Co-operation with communica-  tion research institutes
(136) The CHAIRMAN drew attention to document
(137) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  munication) drew attention to the conclusions of docu-  ment 8C/PRG/17. The agreement of specialists in  all countries had been obtained, and a token sum in-  cluded in the programme so as to ensure liaison  between the existing organizations.
(138) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) said that pro-  ject (C) was of interest to other departments (Educa-  tion and Social Sciences) and asked whether full  co-ordination within the Organization was assured, He  asked whether the amount of $17,000 for clearing  house activities (paragraph 142) was necessary.
(139) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) said  that inter-departmental co-ordination on the lines men-  tioned by the United Kingdom delegate did in fact  exist, particularly in the case of the Department of  Social Sciences. As it was a technical question,  the main responsibility had been given to the  Department of Mass Communication. From the  budgetary standpoint, the amount could not be  absorbed by the general budget of the three De-  partments concerned; consultations between mass  communication specialists were essential, and  that was why the project appeared in the budget  of the Mass Communication Department.  The mecting rose at 12.55 p.m.  - 717 -