12 November 1954 at 8.39 p.m.  Chairman : Mr. KABIR (India)  ELECTION OF THE PRESIDENT AND VICE-PRÉSIDENTS OF  THE GENERAL CONFERENCE AND OF THE CHAIRMEN OF  COMMISSIONS AND COMMITTY ES téocument 8C/NOM/1)
(1) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL opened the meeting  and pointed out that the Executive Board had drawn  up a list of candidates for election to the posts of  President and Vice-Presidents of the Conference,  and chairmen of the commissiors and committees.  He cailed on the Chairman of the Executive Board  to present his report.
(2) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive  Board) exp'ained that the Board had considered at  length all the possible moninations to the various  posts to be filled, so as to ensure representation of  all continents and groups of countries onthe General  Committee of the Conference, The list drawn up on  the basis of the Board's discussions seemed to  satisfy that requirement.
(3) He called on the Committee to elect first its  Chairman, and, in accordance with the Board's  recommendation, t« appoint the delegate of India.
(4) Unanimously approved.  (Mr. KABIR (India) then took the Chair)
(5) The CHAIRMAN thanked the Committee for the  honour done to his delegation and askedthe Chairman  of the Executive Board to present his suggestions for  the choice of other members of the General  Committee.
(6) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of tne Executive  Board) read out Rule 30 of the Rules of Procedure  of the Conference, according to which the Nominations  Committee, on a report by the Executive Board,  was required to submit a list of candidates for the  posts of President and Vice-Presidents of the  General Conference, andto submit to the commissions,  committees and subsidiary organs, proposals for  the election of their chairmen, vice-chairmen and  rapporteurs.
(7\ He stressed the difficulty of the task devolving  - 870 -     upon the Executive Board, which, in drawing up its  list, had taken account of two main factors: (1) the  reed for ensuring fair geographiczl distribution, so  that all regions and cultural groups would be represented  on the General Cornmittee of the Conference; (2) the  desirability of bringing in certain Member States  which had not yet been represented on the General  Committee of the Conference.
(8) Furthermore, although the functions assigned to  the various members of the General Committee were  equally important, some called for gifts of leadership  and experience of Unesco work not possessed by all  candidates, The Executive Board had therefore  thought 1t should in some cases nominate individual  delegates who had already successfully discharged  such functions, For instance, for the Programme  and Administrative Commissions, which carried the  great bulk of the Conference's work, it suggested  calling upon Mr. Bourgeois (Switzerland) and Mr.  Beeby (New Zealand) respectively.
(9) The Executive Board nad made the following  proposals:  President of the Conference: Uruguay  Vice-Presidents of the Conference: Brazil, France,  Italy, Japan, Pakistan, Spain, Thailand, Union of  Soviet Socialist Republics, United Kingdom and  United States of America.  Programme and Budget Commission, Chairman:  Syitzerland (Mr. Bourgeois)  Administrative Commission, Chairman: New  Zealand (Mr. Beeby)  Legal Committee, Chairman: Egypt  Nominations Committee, Chairman: India  Credentials Committee. Colombia  Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget,  Chairman: Australia (Mr. Gardner Davies)  Committee on Reports of Member States,  Chairman: Iraq  Headquarters Committee: Venezuela.
(10) As the Chairmen of the Credentials and the  Nominations Committees had already been elected,  the Committee had to decide on the other proposals.
(11) Mr. SOLDATOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) pointed out that the list proposed by the  Executive Board did not allow for adequate   NOMINATIONS  representation of the Eastern and Central European  countries, of which six were already members of  Unesco and saveral others had applied for admission.  He thought that at least two seats on the General  Committee of the Conference should be granted to  those countries and asked for the Committee's views  on that point.
(12) Mr. COLOMBO (Argentina) emphasized that not  one of the Vice-Presidents of the Conference was a  representative of the Spanish-speaking Latin American  countries and proposed considering nomination of  candidates from Chile and Mexico.
(12) Th- CHAIRMAN explained that in the General  Committee the Chairmen of Commissions and  Committees were on an equal footing with the Vice-  Presidents of the Conference and that among them  the Spanish-sneaking countries seemed to be well  represented (Spain, Colombia, Uruguay and  Venezuela).
(14) Furthermore, he wondered how the Committee  could take decisions on the suggestions of the  representatives of the Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics and Argentina, as put forward.
(15) He proposed that the Committee first decide on  the choice of the F.esident of the Conference.
(16) The nomination of Uruguay was unanimously  approved,
(17) Mr. THA HLA (Union of Burma) agreed with  the delegates of the Union of Soviet Socialist  Repuoli:s and Argentina that the list proposed by the  Executive Board was less satisfactory than he  had expected. He emphasized that South East Asia,  for which only one country, Thailand, had been  nominated, was inadequately represented.
(18) Mr. TERAN ROBALINO (Ecuador)  congratulated the delegate of Uruguay on the honour  done to his country by offering it the Presidency of  the Conference.
(19) The CHAIRMAN asked members to vote on the  res’ of the list as a whole, as the comments made  did not take the form of specific proposals.
(20) Mr. SOLDATOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) explained that his remarks were based  on two considerations: (1) the list proposed did not  allow for a fair geographical distribution of the  countries of Eastern and Central Europe; (2)  considering the number of memt :rs on the General  Committee, those countries w.re obviously less  well represented than the others. It would be only  right to give them another seat. A fair decision on  that point would make it easier to deal later with a  number of other problems.
(21) Mr. BUSTAMANTE (El Salvador) proposed  adding Chile and Mexico to the list.
(22) The Proposal was supported by the delegate of  Brazil.    COMMITTEE via-i
(23) Mr. SHARIF (Pakistan) pointed out that the  list had been drawn up by the Executive Board after  lengthy discussion and with due regard to certain  basic considerations; he proposed that the  Committee vote first on the nominations to (he  posts of Vice-President,
(24) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) thought  that, as all seats on the General Committee were of  equal importance, the Committe= should consider  the list as a whole. However, as Venezuela did not  seem likely to be represented at the Conference, the  proposal concerning the Chairmanship of the  Headquarters Committee would probably have to be  amended.
(25) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive  Board) explained that out of the 18 posts to be filled,
6 were allocated to Europe, 5 to the American  continent, 4 to Asia, 2 tu the Middle East and 2 to  other regions of the world, including Africa and the  South Pacific (2 seats had been set aside for the  latter group because of the special qualifications of  the candidates proposed).
(26) The CHAIRMAN asked the Committee to vote  on whether it would take a decision on the list as a  whole.
(27) Mr. SECCO ELLAURI (Urtiguay) thought the  Committee should adjourn thé meeting in order to  work out a new procedure. It was difficult to take  a decision on a single proposal.
(28) Mr, BERNAL JIMENEZ (Colombia) recalled  that the original idea had been to appoint Egypt one  of the Vice-Presidents, and he wondered whether it  would not be possible to give one of the Latin  American countries the post originally proposed for  Egypt seeing that the latter had finally been chosen  for the Chairmanship of the Legal Committee.
(29) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) was disappointed to  find the Committee working so slowly.
(30) Mr. HUZAYIN (Egypt) saw no reason to alter  the list of Vice-Presidents, Spain had been chosen  to replace Egypt on that list and he supported the  new nomination,
(31) Mr. VASSALLO ROJAS (Chile) thought it was  contrary tothe democratic principles on which Unesco  was based to discuss one single list; every country  should be given a chance of expressing its views.
(32) Mr. BERREDO CERNEIRO (Brazil) emphasized  that the Executive Board had always proposed lists of  candidates without any idea of imposing them on the  Conference. He suggested taking a secret vote which  would enable all delegates to include new names on the  list.
(33) Mr. NUFER (United States of America) was  prepared to vote on the whole list, which did not  imply that he would accept all the names proposed  by the Board.  - 871 -   VII-1 NOMINATICNS
(34) Mr. COLOMBO (Argentina) supported the  proposal of the delegate of Brazil.
(35) Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) also felt that the  Committee should prepare a new list.
(36) Sir Charles Webster (United Kingdom) thought  that the Committee should bear in mindthe Executive  Board's efforts and vote first on the proposed list.  If that list were not approved, the Committee could  then consider a different solution.
(37) Mr. THA HLA (Union of Burma) saw no point  in prolonging the discussion, The only question was  whether to vote on the entire list or consider the  different categories of posts separately.
(38) The CHAIRMAN put that ques.ion to the vote.
(39) The Committee decided, by 26 votes to 13, to  vote on the list as a whole.
(40) The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the nominations  proposed by the Executive Board.
(41) That list was approved by 25 votes to 12 with
6 abstertions.
(42) Mr. KOTSCHNIG (Ur.ited States of America)  said that be had voted against the Board's proposals,  not from lack of confidence in the Board but because  he thought that when a delegation submitted a new  nomination it was entitled to have that nomination  considered.
(43) Mr. COLOMBO (Argentina) also said that he  had not intended to show any mistrust in the Board.  He had voted against merely 1n order to make his  position clear.    COMMITTEE
(44) Mr. TERAN ROBALINO (Ecuador) said he had  voted against the Board's list in order to emphasize  that not enough seats had been set aside for Latin  America aud also to affirm the principle according  to which the Board should make proposals and not  impose its suggestions,
(45) Mr. VLAHOVIC (Yugoslavia) was satisfied with  the appointment of nine of the ten countries included  on the list. He had voted against the list because  he had had no opportunity of expressing his opinion  by a secret vote.
(46) Mr. PRATT (Australia) asked whether a new  nomination would be made for the chairmanship of  the Headquarters Committee if it turned out that  Venezuela would not be attending the Conference.
(47) Mr. de ERICE y O'SHEA (Spain) urged that  when the time came to elect the Vice-Chairman of  the Headquarters Committee consideration be given  to appointing a delegate of Latin America.
(49) The CHAIRMAN replied that the suggestion  would be borne in mind,
(49) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained that the  Secretariat had not yet received any official  communication about Venezuela attending the  Conference.
(50) The CHAIRMAN poiated out that, by its vote,  the Nominations Committee had adopted the same  list as the Executive Board.
(51) He congratulated the countries nominated.  The meeting rose at 6.15 p.m.  - 872 -