PROGRAMME AND  information, and he himself endorsed the  Advisory Committee's view,
(147) The delegate of Italy seconded the French  resolution.
(148) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out that  the resolution had budgetary implications amounting  to $100, 000. He was of the opinion that it would be  impossible to accept it, as the Commission had  still a long way to go in its work of cutting the  programme.
(149) The delegate of France withdrew his resolution  {document 8C/DR/33).
(150) Paragraphs 218-221 were adopted with 5  abstentions.  Draft resolution DR/11: United Nations stamps  honouring Unesco
(151) This resolution was not seconded and was  rejected.  Draft resolution DR/57 rev.: Circulation of  educational, scientific and cultural publications
(152) Mrs. PINTO DE VIDAL (Uruguay) regretted  that many of the proposals submitted by her    BUDGET COMMISSION 1v-28  delegation had been rejected, She could not  understand why the Executive Board had not  recommended the proposal to bring out a special  stamp to facilitate the exchange of cultural material.
(153) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass  Communication) said that the proposal would have to  be amended, since the Director-General could not  himself issue a stamp, The suggestion should be  studied and submitted as a proposal to Member  States, who could on their own account bring it  before the Congress of the Universal Postal Union.
(154) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive  Board) added that the Board had not supported the  proposal.
(155) The Uruguayan delegate agreed to the  amendment and Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-  General) accordingly proposed the following wording  for the beginning of the draft resolution. "The  General Conference invites Member States to  propose that the Universal Postal Union 1ssue.....".
(156) The proposed wording was accepted by the  delegation of Uruguay, and by the delegate of the  United Kingdom, and the project was adopted by 12  votes to 7, with 18 abstentions.  The meeting rose at 6.30 p.m,  TWENTY - EIGHTH MEETING
1 December 1954 at 11 a.m.  Chaurman : Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland)  ITEM 8.4.6 OF RFVISED AGENDA : EXCHANGE OF PERSONS  SERVICE
(1) Mr, W, CARTER (Chief, Exchange of Persons  Service) said that the programme was divided into  three parts: clearing house and advisory activities;  administration of fellowships; and the promotion of  exchange of persons for international understanding.  Continuous work in the three fields since 1947 had  enabled the Secretariat to build up experience in all  aspects of problems pertaining to the exchange of  persons, The service now possecsed extensive  documentation, had developed a series of publica-  tions and established contacts with governments and  provate organizations in the countries concerned,
(2) The policy for 1955-56 was a continuance of the  previous programme with the addition of certain new  features, the first of which was the development of  advisory services and assistance to Member States in  the form of technical consultations and discussions  on problems raised by them.
(3) With regard to fellowships, the policy was to offer  a limited number for the pursuit of studies abroad in  specific fields related to Unesco's programme. The  programme would inevitably fall short of the needs of  Member States, but the Secretariat had felt that it  would be better, instead of trying to cope with an  unlimited number of requests, to plan in collaboration  with the programme departments and link fellowships  with specific activities in those departments, Fellow-  ships would thus be an essential tool in the execution  of projects. The whole programme represented a  concerted effort, in collaboration with the beneficiary  and host countries, to develop programmes adequate to  to the needs of individual fellows, and was, in addition,  a form of technical aid to both the individual and his  country, Underlying it was Unesco's basic objective  of international understanding.
(4) With regard to the third part of the programme,  exchange of persons for international understanding,  which was concerned especially with young persons,  manual and non-manual workers, and teachers, new  - 461 -   IV-28 PROGRAMME AND  features included the extension of workers’ travel to  Latin America and Asia; advisory services for the  recruitment of foreign teaching staff; and the promo-  tion of regional cultural studies. The object of the  regional studies, which were described in paragraph
104, was to promote better international understand-  ing by enabling graduates to acquire knowledge of  countries other than their own.  Paragraphs 1-8
(5) Approved.  Project 6.1. Clearing House and Advisory Services  Paragraphs 9-22
(6) Mr. HACQUAERT (Belgium) thought it would be  advisable to merge certain publications dealing with  travel. The Belgian delegation knew that the  Secretariat had already given thought to that question  and it brought it up only in order to encourage them  to continue with it.
(7) Mr. W. CARTER (Chief, Exchange of Persons  Service) assured the delegate of Belgium that the  possibility of collaborating with the International  Union of Official Travel Organizations was being  actively pursued.
(8) Mr. HUZAYIN (Egypt) considered that the  clearing house and advisory services should be  encouraged. Unesco was not the only organization  handling the exchange of persons: Egypt, for  example, had developed its own system and had  already arranged exchanges of nearly 5,000 students  and 1, 600 teachers with 35 countries. If Unesco  would work out a scheme fcr co-ordinating such  activities, Egypt would be glad to participate.
(9) Referring to paragraph 17, he urged that  evaluation of the results of exchange schemes shoula  be pursued more vigorously. Staff and students who  had been sent abroad were not always able to work in  their fields of specialization when they returned to  their countries,
(10) Mr, RIESZ (International Association of  University Professors and Lecturers), after recall-  ing the basic aims of the non-governmental  organizations he represented, emphasized the  extremely important part played by the exchange of  teachers and students in the dissemination of  knowledge and the developmer.t of international  understanding, and as a preliminary to the  establishment of international faculties; in that  connexion, he mentioned the measures taken by  Uruguay in establishing a Faculty of Humanities and  Sciences (the work of the philosopher Vaz Ferreira).
(11) The International Association of University  Professors and Lecturers received no subvention  from Unesco but the Organization concluded contracts  with it for producing reports on given subjects.
(12) In 1955-56, the survey in progress would be  published, revealing difficulties and obstacles which  still hampered the exchange of teachers, such as the  necessity of providing accommodation in some of the  BUDQET     COMMISSION  large towns. The equivalence of degrees, the status  of teachers and the question of sabbatical leave were  all bound up with the problem and had already been  dealt with in the Association's previous reports.
(13) Mr. Riesz mentioned another report which the  Association was preparing for Unesco, and which  would show the significance of the exchange of  teachers to the important problem of collaboration  between the universities and industry.
(14) Finally, with regard to research fellowships,  Mr. Riesz was of the opinion that they should not  always be allocated according to a rigid plan, but  that some of them should remain at the disposal of the  Director-General to meet possible needs connected  with new activities,
(15) Mr. Riesz concluded by saying that increased  expenditure on education and international understand-  ing should reduce the necessity to spend money on  armaments.
(16) Mrs. LEGARDA (Philippines), speaking as  observer for the World Association of Girl Guides and  Girl Scouts, thanked Unesco on behalf of the  Association's three million members for the valuable  work which was being done in sponsoring exchanges of  young persons, Two members had benefited in 1952  and two in 1954, but, with the establishment of a new  training centre in Mexico during the coming year,  more exchanges would be needed. She asked if the  Director-General or the Executive Board would  consider the possibility of increasing exchanges for  young persons.
(17) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) said that the  Executive Board was well aware of the importance of  the rdle played by the Exchange of Persons Service,  She read out the Board's comments (document 8C/5  Add. 1., paragraph 16, page 3).
(18) Paragraphs 9-22 were approved.  Project 6.2: Fellowship administration  Paragraphs 27-36
(19) Mr. ESTELRICH (Spain) said that it was essential  to maintain at the same figure, and, if possible, to  augment in future, the sums set aside for fellowships,  by increasing the budgetary appropriation and reducing  administrative expenses; to secure an equitable  distribution of fellowships among countries and  cultures; to award fellowships in such a way as to  meet the particular needs of each country; and to  rationalize the basis on which they were granted,  stressing their technical character and their bearing  on the principal educational problems.
(20) Mr. SAMBURSKY (Israel) said that it was  important when arranging fellowships to send people  to countries with a standard of development not too  far above that of their own country, since it was more  profitable for them to study conditions which had a  reasonable possibility of attainment in the near future.  It would also be useful if fellows could be given  opportunities ot studying the problems of the poorer.  parts of the host countries.  - 462 -   PROGRANME AND
(31) Mr. CLEGG (United Kingdom) supported the  section under discussion, but urged that awards  should be notified as early as possible. Improvised  arrangements for placing holders of fellowships at  short notice might impair the quality of work.
(22) Mr. TOROCHESHNIKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) proposed that the following sentence be  added to resolution 6. 2:  "Taking into account in this matter that in the  granting of these fellowships priority should be given  first of all to the needs of the underdeveloped  countries.
(23) Underdeveloped countries had expressed a need  for experts to help in implementing Unesco's pro-  grammes in the fields of education, science and  culture, and every effort should be made to help  them to train their own personnel,
(24) Mr. FRIEDMAN (ORT World Union) suggested  that, with an eye to the future, consideration be given  to the possibility of including in the draft programme,  under project 6.2, fellowships for the investigation  and extension of the study of vocational guidance  probleins, and of incorporating in draft resolution
6.34 (paragraphs 99 and 100) the exchange of teachers  fron: vocational training schools, in order to promote  international understanding.
(25) Mr. ZAMORANO HERNANDEZ (Chile) said that  his delegation supported the proposal made by Spain  and suggested, in addition, that in granting fellowships  Unesco give preference to technical education.
(26) Mr. GOMEZ HOYOS (Colombia) referred to the  successful experiment being carried out by the  Instituto Colombiano de Especializacion en el Exterior  (Colombian Institute for Specialization Abroad); and  said he had come to the conclusion that administrative  expenditure in Unesco's Exchange of Persons Service  was in excess of real needs and absorbed a large part  of the funds which might be used for fellcwships.
(27) Mr. MONTALVO (Ecuador) whole-heartedly  endorsed the views of the Spanish delegation, and  proposed that, in granting fellowships, the Unesco  Secretariat should take due account of Technical  Assistance programmes being carried out in various  countries,
(28) The amendment to draft resolution 6. 2,  proposed by the delegation of the USSR, was  seconded and unanimously adopted.
(29) Paragraphs 27-36 were unanimously adopted.
(30) Paragraphs 37 and 38 were unanimously adopted  Paragraphs 39-43
(31) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commission)  said that the prograinme activities referred to in  those paragraphs had been given high priority and the  Advisory Committee understood that the same priority  would extend to the relative fellowships,
(32) Paragraphs 30-43 were approved.  BUDGET     COMMISSION IV-28  Paragraphs 44-46
(33) Miss DOUGLAS (Canada) urged that in granting  fellowships special attention should be given to  subjects in which Unesco was particularly interested,  for example, the Arid Zone and the Geophysical Year.  She hoped the Director-General would bear that in  mind when using any surplus funds.
(34) The CHAIRMAN said that the Director-General  and the Advisory Committee would bear the comments  in mind,
(35) Mr. SANDOVAL VALLARTA (Mexico) said that  in the discussion on paragraph 45 (in connexion with  paragraph 136 of the Natural Sciences chapter) it had  been decided to add the word "astronomy" after  "nuclear physics and cosmic rays".
(36) The CHAIRMAN thanked him, and put paragraphs
45 and 46 to the vote.
(37) They were unanimously approved.  Paragraphs 47 and 48
(38) Mr. HUZAYIN (Egypt) said that mauy countries  which were making efforts to promote education were  hampered by the lack of statistical experts. He urged  that the Secretariat should pay special attention to the  need for helping such countries.
(39) Paragraphs 47 and 48 were approved.  Paragraphs 49-51
(40) Approved,  Paragraphs 52-54 and draft resolution 8C/DR/24
(41) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commission)  reported that the Advisory Committee, after hearing  from the Secretariat that the budgetary allocation was  $20,000, had expressed approval of the project,
(42) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) said that the  Executive Board had been greatly interested in draft  resolution 8C/DR/24, but in view of the efforts made  to draw up a programme equitably distributed between  existing needs, had been unable to recommend it for  adoption,
(43) Mrs, PATRONETTO VALTER (Italy) said that,  if her information was correct, applications for the  seven fellowships for artists and writers had already  been received from 38 States.
(44) The Advisory Committee was undoubtedly  justified in asserting that an increase in the number  of such fellowships would upset the balance of the bud-  get; but it was regrettable that the Secretariat, in  seeking to achieve a balance, had not made more  allowance for such important fellowships,
(45) The Italian delegation therefore asked for an  increase in the number of such fellowships, if not  immediately, at least for the years 1957-58.
(46) Mr, IBANEZ GOMEZ (Chile) said that his  - 463 -   IV-28 PROGRAMME AND  delegation supported the Italian proposal; he also  wished to know in what proportion furds wcre to be  assigned, respectively, to librarians and to artists  and writers; he understood that Unesco was very  little known as yet in artistic and literary circles and  he moved that the sums for artists' and writers'  fellowships be increased as much as possible in the
(47) Miss BOLLO (Uruguay) said that her country was  most sympathetic towards the Italian proposal and  welcomed any effort to obtain an immediate increase  in those fellowships,
(48) Mr. W. CARTER (Chief, Exchange of Persons  Service) said that, although it was difficult to  calculate exactly, the proportions in respect of  Cultural Activities were approximately $24, 000 for  artists and writers and $12, 000 for librarians. He  pointed out that any increase under that project might  affect paragraphs 55-61 and urged the necessity of  maintaining the balance between the different parts  of the programme,
(49) The proposal of the Chilean delegate to defer  the Italian proposal (document 8C/DR/ 24) until the
1957-58 period was put to the vote and adopted by 19  votes to 6, with 14 abstertions.  Paragraphs 85-01
(50) Approved,  Paragraphs 62 and 63
(51) Approved,  Paragraphs 64-67
(52) Approved,
6.3: Promotion of exchange of persons for  international understanding  Project 6,31: General promotion (paragraphs 69-76)
(53) Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) proposed that  resolution 6.31 be amended by adding the phrase,  “taking into account, as far as possible, the problems  raised by unemployment among intellectuals",
(54) The Lebanese delegate was not blind to the fact  that the question was specially difficult because there  was no precise definition of the profession of  intellectual worker,
(55) But the problem was a real one and the former  International Institute of Intellectual Co-operation  had studied it very carefully and had come to the  conclusion that a solution might be found by  co-cperating with ILO.
(56) Unesco might revive that idea of co-operating  with ILO in attempting by a series of measures, such  as the opening of an information office or the  compilation of some kind of world register, to find  remunerative employment for young intellectuals  who were otherwise thrown back on themselves and  ready to resort to anything.    BUDGET COMMISSION
(57) The social structure of many countries was still  threatened and history would show what effect  unemployment in a section of the intellectual class  had had on the rise of dictatorships.
(58) Mr. HUZAYIN (Egypt) said that the discussions  proposed in paragraphs 73-74 represented one of the  most useful of Unesco's activities, since many  countries met with serious practical difficulties in  connexion with exchange of persons. He fully  supported the project and, while hesitating to ask for  an increase in the number of the proposed meetings,  urged that the existing plans should be implemented,
(59) Mr. SUZUKI (Japan) said that the Japanese  delegation attached great importance to the question,  and his Government would be very pleased if the  meeting for the Asian countries were held in Tokyo,
(60) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that the  Secretariat's attention had frequently been drawn to  the problem referred to by the delegate of Lebanon.  If the intention of his proposal was that the Secretariat  should bear it in mind and take whatever steps were  possible within the framework of the programme, he  was willing to accept it.
(61) Mr. STEWART (Canada) had no objection to the  proposal, but was not satisfied with the drafting of  the English text,
(62) The proposal of the delegate of Lebanon was put  to the vote and adopted by 41 votes to nil with 2  abstentions.
(63) Paragraphs 69-76 were approved.  Project 6.32. Exchange of workers  Paragrapns 77,84
(64) Mr. HACQUAERT (Belgium) observed that  there was no mention of individual travel in Europe  for workers, although that type of study tour had been  encouraged and supported by Unesco.
(65) So long as every care was taken to ensure that  such study tours were of use to the communities to  which the grant-holders belonged, provision for them  should continue to be made in the programmes, or  should be introduced.
(56) Mr. W. CARTER (Chief, Exchange cf Persons  Service) said that efforts were being made to extend  study tours not only in Europe but also further afield.  Future activities had been planned more on a group  basis than in the past, but he would bear in mind the  possibility of individual tours when feasible. The  plan envisaged, however, was to promote contact  between small groups of workers.
(67) Mr. PRATT (Australia) supported the project  but asked if it would be possible at a later stage to  widen the scope of paragraph 81 to include Oceania.
(68) Mr. MATIC (Yugoslavia) drew the attention  to the Secretariat to the fact that in certain  countries - Yugoslavia, for instance - trade  - 464 -   PROGRAMME AND BUDGET COMMISSION IV-28  unions were not necessarily affiliated with the  international trade union organizations.
(69) The Secretariat should therefore try to find a  means of enabling such workers to benefit from  Unesco fellowships, as had already been done in the  case of those offered by the United Nations Technical  Assistance or other Specialized Agencies.
(70) Mr. FAUBLAS (Haiti) wondered whether, as  resolution 6, 31 concerned intellectuals in particular,  resolution 6.32 should not refer solely to manual  workers, in order to avoid duplication.
(71) It would be sufficient to delete the words "and  non-manual” at the end of the resolution.
(72) The CHAIRMAN pointed out to the Haitian  delegate that the term "non-manual" did not  necessarily mean "intellectual" (business employees,  for example, were not manual workers in the usual  sense of the term), and there was therefore an  objection to deleting the words ‘and non-manual"  from the resolution.
(13) Mr. FAUBLAS (Haiti) did not insist on the  deletion of the words, but urged that, in carrying out  the resolution, priority be given to manual workers.
(74) Mr. W. CARTER (Chief, Exchange of Persons  Service) explained that a technical problem of  terminology was involved. The co-operative and trade  union organizations with which Unesco was collaborat-  ing distinguished only between manual and non-manual  workers and did not speak of writers, artists or  musicians as such. It was a question of clarification,  since some of tne trade union organizations concerned  included civil servants and clerks, who were termed  non-manual workers in contrast to those who worked  in factories and industry; he would prefer to retain  the existing wording.
(75) With regard to the question of proportions,  while the Secretariat was willing to bear it in mind,  the problem was a delicate one. In selecting 75  groups from about 150 applications it was not easy to  analyse the proportions of, for example, older and  younger workers or men and women,
(76) In reply to a question from the delegate of  France, Mr. Carter said that rural workers were  included under the resolution, applications being  received through the International Association of  Agricultural Producers.
(77) Mr. CHARYAVIBHAJ (Thailand) supported the  project but asked that South East Asia should be  included under paragraph 81.
(78) Mr. W, CARTER (Chief, Exchange of Persons  Service) said that it had been the intention to include  that area in the project.
(79) Paragraphs 77-84 were approved.  Paragraphs 85-87
(80) Approved,
(81) Mr. W, CARTER (Chief, Exchange of Persons  Service) said that in developing the scheme the    Secretariat had always borne in mind the need for  emphasis on young workers as well as on the more  mature,  Paragraphs 88 and 89
(82) Approved.  Paragraphs 90 and 91
(83) Approved.  Project 6.33: Exchange of young people (paragraphs
(84) Miss MILLER (World's Young Women's Christian  Association) said that the YWCA had been in existence  for a hundred years and for the last fifty years the  World's YWCA, with headquarters in Geneva, had  united National YWCAs, which now numbered 64.  Through Unesco, the World's YWCA had been  admitted to a sisterly relationship with other  international non-governmental organizations each  working for a particular aspect of Unesco's programme.  She pointed out that nearly every women delegate to  the present Conference was a member of a YWCA.
(85) Travel grants for young persons were of special  interest to her organization and she regretted that in  spite of the rise In travel costs the budget for the  coming two years had been reduced from $33,000 to  $30,000. Unesco's travel grants were of inestimable  value to young leaders in the movement, who were  thereby given opportunities of travel and international  contact far beyond the means of either headquarters  or the local organizations. Women had hitherto had  far less opportunity than men, and she urged the  importance of helping them to play their full part in  the international field and in supporting Unesco's  programme for mutual understanding between the  peoples of the world.
(86) Mr. W, CARTER (Chief, Exchange of Persons  Service) explained that the reduction was due to a  change In the programme. During the past three years  travel grants had been made to enable members of  qualified international youth organizations to partici  pate in brief study tours, international conferences  and seminars, lasting from three weeks to a month.  With regard to the future, however, it was felt that  long-distance travel grants should be conditional not  only on attendance at short-term activities but also on  development by the organizations concerned of periods  of training for youth leadership lasting from three to  five months, Despite the resulting need for additional  financial efforts on the part of the organizations  themselves, a slight decrease in Unesco's grant was  considered justifiable,  (£7) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  recognized the difficulties facing the Secretariat in  meeting the competing needs for fellowships and travel  grants and did not wish to disturb the balance that had  been achieved. He urged, however, that more attention  should be given to the training of youth leaders and  emphasized the close relationship between travel grants  and the work of the non-governmental organizations  whose co-operation was sought by Unescu, He hoped  - 465 -   v-29 PROGRAMME AND  that the Secretariat would consider the possibility of  transfers from other parts of the programme to  increase study grants in 1955-56 and that more  attention would be given to that aspect of the  department's activities in 1957-58.
(88) Paragraphs 92-97 were approved.  Project 6.34: Exchange of Teachers  Paragraphs 98-102 and draft resoiution 8C/DR/23,
(89) Mr, CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commission)  drew attention to the Advisory Committee's recom-  mendation that draft resolution 8C/DR/23 be  considered by the Director-General when preparing  the 1957-58 programme.
(50) Mr. VITO (Italy) introducing document 8G/DR/23,  which had been submitted by his delegation, stressed  the mutual .nterest of Unesco and the International  Association of University Professors and Lecturers,  the recent international conference had greatly  appreciated the message of support received from  the Director-General. Reports at that conference  had emphasized the importance of the study being  carrier out by the Association and the fact that no  other organization was working in that field.
(91) The fact that the number of affiliates was  increasing and now included Canada, Australia and  BUDGET     COMMISSION  other distant countries made it clear that a  contract of $1,000 was inadequate to carry out  the world-wide study of matters connected with the  recruitment, employment and exchange of teaching  staff. He therefore urged that the amount should be  increased to $2,000 for each of the years 1955  and 1956.
(92) Mrs, PECSON (Executive Board) said that  the proposals in draft resolution 8C/DR/23 were  already contained in paragraph 101 of the  proposed programme and budget. Taking into  account, however, the resources of the International  Association of University Professors and Lecturers  and the intended programme of action, the Executive  Board had decided to recommend adoption of the  resolution to enable 1h» study to be carried out in a  satisfactory manner.
(93) Miss BOLLO (Uruguay) said that her delegation  warmly supported the Italian proposal.
(94) (Document 8C/DR/23) submitted by the Italian  delegation was approved by 29 votes to 6, with 2  abstentions.  Paragraphs 103-106
(95) Unanimously approved.  The meeting rose at 1 p.m.  TWENTY-NINTH MEETING
1 December 1954 at 3 p.m.  Chairman: Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland)
(1) As there was no quorum the meeting adjourned  for .0 minutes; it then opened in accordance with the  provisions of Rule 69, paragraph 2, of the Rules of  Procedure.  PROPOSAL BY THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL CONCERNING THE  VISUAL INFORMATION SECTION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF  MASS COMMUNICATION (document 8C/PRG/28)
(2) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Commu-  nication) said that the object of the proposal by the  Secretariat was to give effect to suggestions put  forward by several delegations, and particularly by  those of France and Italy. He recalled that the  Commission had decided to set aside a sum of  $50, 000 to develop the activities of the Visual  Information Section. The Director-General considered  that, if the proposals contained in the document were  to be carried out, a sum of $60, 000 would be    necessary. It was therefore  an extra $10,000 be freed.  proposed that
(3) Mr. BENDER (Netherlands) thanked the Secretariat  for the information provided.
(4) It had been intended that $ 50, 000 shouid be  devoted to making a film such as "World Without End",  Then the scheme had been dropped and the Secretariat  had been asked to see whether the money could not be  used for other purposes. Did the reference to the  making of "topical shorts” mean that the scheme was  being taken up in some other form?
(5) Under paragraph 248, no particular provision was  made for staff. Was the one P.5 post proposed in  document 8C/PRG/28 really needed?
(6) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Communi-  cation) said that the proposa! that Unesco should make  another big film had been decisively defeated. At the  same time the Secretariat had been asked to reinforce  - 466 -