PROGRAMME AND BUDGET COMMISSION IV-14  FOURTEENTH MEETING
27 November 1954 at 9 a.m.  Chairman : Mr, BOURGEOIS (Switzerland)  ITEM 8.4.1 OF REVISED AGENDA, EDUCATION (continued)  (H) Further contribution to the international funda-  mental education centres (paragraphs 308 and 309)  (continued)
(1) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education),  developing remarks previously made by the Director-  General, said that, when the budget was originally  drafied, provision had been made for financial sup-  port of the Patzcuaro Centre for two years, while  support for the other centres had been put on the  higher budgetary level. The aim had been to draw  attention to the point made at the previous meetingby  the delegate of Australia, namely, that the time must  inevitably come when Member States might reason-  ably be expected to bear the costs themselves. The  Director-General hoped the Commission would not  think he was advocating cuts in order to force through  what at the present time must necessarily be a diffi-  cult decision, i.e., whether Unesco should continue  its financial support or not.
(2) Mr. FORSYTH (New Zeala1.d) said he had been  instructed to raise the same point as the delegate of  Australia, His attitude towards such centres was by  no means unsympathetic. But he felt that the time  must come when such projects must stand on their  own feet, otherwise there would be no possibility of  creating new ones. He understood that the Patzcuaro  project was already costing the Mexican Government  a good deal of money. Surely those other countries  taking advantage of the facilities there offered ought  at least to pay for the maintenance of their students?
(3) Mr. AL-KOUSSI (Egypt) said that direct contact  with the centres and with the States sending students  there would convince Unesco of the value of continuing  its assistance, which in any case would taper off in  future years. Its premature cancellation would be  most damaging to the centres. He trusted that the  amounts provided for in the programme and budget  would be approved.
(4) Mr. ANGELL (United States of America) was in  favour of assisting the centres, which were doing  most important work. But he recognized the force  of the arguments adduced by the Australian and New  Zealand delegations.
(5) An essential condition, if the centres were to see  their influence strengthened, was that the support of  governments be enlisted to a much greater e.itent,  and that governments should be anxious to see the  training acquired by students they had sent there used    to the best advantage. One of the best ways of achiev-  ing that aim was to call on governments to contribute  to the cost.
(6) However, it was perhaps premature to expect the  governments to take over full financial responsibility  right away. He would propose that Unesco make its  fuls contribution for 1955, but that in 1956 govern-  ments be expected to pay half the cost of the centres,  Unesco paying the other half.
(7) In submitting his proposal, he had been more  anxious to strengthen the influence of che centres than  to save money for Unesco.
(8) Mr. ATADEMIR (Turkey) seconded the proposal.
(9) Mr. FAUBLAS (Haiti) stated that his Government  had given him instructions to support any recommen-  dation the Director-General might make concerning  the Fundamental Education Centre at Patzcuaro.  e
(10) Mr. SANDOVAL VALLARTA (Mexico) said that  his Government would keep strictly to the terms of  the contract it had signed with Unesco with regard to  the Regional Centre at Patzcuaro. In addition, his  Government would welcome adoption of the recommen-  dations which had been made under paragraph 308 of  the programme by the representative of the Executive  Board and by the Advisory Committee on Programme  and Budget.
(11) Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) sympathized with  the views expressed by the delegates of Australia and  New Zealand. Sooner or later the question would  have to be faced whether Member States should pay a  proportion of the cost of maintaining their students at  the centres, pending the time when they would take  over full financial responsibility.
(12) Nevertheless, the point should not be pressed at  the moment. Let the Secretariat decide, in consulta-  tion with the directors of the two centres and the  governments concerned, how arrangements might be  made for Unesco's financial aid to taper off.
(13) Mr. ZAMORANO HERNANDEZ (Chile) considered  that the question under examination had three aspects,  which led to confusion. Firstly, it was not a question  of touching on the problem of what Unesco should con-  sider permanent and what it should consider temporary.  If Patzcuaro or any similar project were to be per-  manent, they should not be dealt with at that meeting.  Secondly, what steps Member States should take in  developing those projects had not been submitted for  examination either. Thirdly, there was the concrete  problem of subventions to those regional centres. In  - 353 -   PROGRAMME AND IV-14  that respect the speaker believed that what the Secre-  tariat had proposed should be approved.
(14) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) pointed out that, if  those Arab States that were interested in the function-  ing of the Centre at Sirs-el-Layyan could not at  present give it sufficient financial aid, 1t was because  they had to face a concrete problem: the training  given was of an extremely high standard and the  countries from which trainees came were not yet  equipped for putting the necessary resources at their  disposal for the rational and fruitful use of the know-  ledge they nad acquired at the Centre.
(15) The Secretariat had fixed the credits indicated  In paragraph 309 with a full knowledge of the facts.
(16) Mr. SEDES (France) supported the United  Kingdom delegate's statement. It was without doubt  desirable to find a way in which the States concerned  could participate financially, but any premature  decision might compromise the existence of the two  centres, which, as had been said and emphasized,  was a necessity.
(17) Mrs. PINTO DE VIDAL (Uruguay) said that, in  view of the good results so far obtained by the  Regional Centre at Patzcuaro, she considered that  its present organization should not be changed for  another two years. She also believed that the govern-  ments of countries whose students enjoyed the benefits  of the Centre, should contribute to its maintenance  and should far example bear travel expenses. Mexico  for its part could help by providing cheaper accom-  modation.
(18) She supported the project it the form in which it  had been presented.
(19) Mr. AL-HILLI (Iraq) said th: Centre at  Sirs-el-Layyan was in its early stages, and after two  years of existence had turned out only five Iraqi  students, who were being used by tae Iraqi Govern-  ment to start two new centres, the cost of which it  was bearing itself.
(20) The Egyptian Government, he had been told, was  making a substantial financial contribution. In fact,  he believed it was paying more than Unesco.
(21) He agreed that governments should be expected  to contribute, but not in the early stages. A cut in  the Unesco contribution would gravely endanger the  centres.
(22) Mr. PRATT (Australia) wished to make it clear  that his delegation was strongly in favour of the  centres. There had beensubstantialagreement among  previous speakers as to their value. The only ques-  tion was how their influence and value could best be  ensured.
(23) He would be the first to acknowledge that the  Egyptian and Mexican Governments had given the  centres magnificent support. But in general he would  be inclined to associate himself with the United States  proposal, for the reasons given by the delegate of the  United States of America.
(24) Mr. C,W. CARTER (Canada) thought that the  United States proposal would go far to meet the fears  entertained by the delegates of Australia and New  BUDGET     COMMISSION  Zealand. A rather similar situation had arisen in  Canada in the past, and had been settled along the  lines indicated in the United States proposal.
(25) Even if the Commission supported the United  States proposal, it should, he considered, support the  estimates given in the document for 1955. The acti-  vities were central tc the programme of Unesco.
(26) Mr. ANGELL (United States of America) repea-  ted that his proposal had been submitted merely in  order to reinforce the position and influence of the  centres and, since it seemed to be meeting with a  cold reception, he would be perfectly willing to  withdraw it.
(27) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  said that one important point had not been made.  Every Member State sending students to the centres  paid in some way or other. For example, since most  of the students were married men with commitments,  the States concerned undertook to continue paying  their salaries. In addition, they paid students! travel  expenses.
(28) A distinction should be made between the two  centres. That at Sirs-el-Layyan was much the  younger, and it was felt that at least five years would  be required to estimate the extent ro which it had  succeeded in making its influence felt in the Arab  world.
(29) Then there was the question of timing. The  Latin American States had been asked for their views  whether Unesco assistance should not be tapered off.  Most of the replies received had been sympathetic,  but the view had buen expressed that, if such steps  were taken too early, the future of the centres would  be jeopardized. The Director-General might be asked  to investigate the attitude of States towards the ques-  tion whether they should take over maintenance costs  and to report thereon to the General Conference at a  later session.
(30) Paragraphs 308 and 309 were unanimously  adopted.  (I) National experiments on the production of reading  material for aew literates (paragraphs 310-312)
(31) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education),  commenting or. a suggestion by the delegate of the  United Kingdom that discussion of the two paragraphs  should be postponed until the Commission came to  discuss cultural activities, said that such a course  was possible, but that the two activities were  complementary rather than identical.
(32) Paragraphs 310-312 were unanimously adopted.
(33) Resolution 1.311 (pages 33 and 34) was unani-  mcusly adopted.  Project 1.32: Adult Education (paragraphs 313-333)
(34) Mr. WEILENMANN (Switzerland) said that his  country approved resolution 1. 322, and was apprecia-  tive of what the Director-General had done in that  field during the preceding year.
(35) He stressedthe great importance of adult education,  - 354 -   PROGRAMME AND  to which, indeed, almost every chapter in the pro-  granme made reference in some way or other.
(36) The world was rapidly shrinking and adult  education was of vital importance in training people  to live peaceably side by side. The experience of  Switzerland showed that a modus vivendi between  various linguistic and cultural groups could be found,  provided education emphasized the principles of  freedom, equality and voluntary association.
(37) Education in those three principles was equiva-  lent to education for democracy, and democratic  principles had to be instilled not only into children,  but also into adults.
(38) Adult education was being largely carried on by  independent voluntary associations, some of which  had grown up in the nineteenth century, such as  workers! educational movements. In addition, he  would mention the Universidad de Trabajo in Uruguay,  and the extension lecture system operated in British  universities. Such bodies and such schemes were  working in the same direction as Unesco.
(39) Thence Unesco should maze better use of them.  To that end he proposed that the Director-General  be authorized to have recourse to adult education  institutes for advice and to foster regional and world-  wide associations of such institutes. He understood  that such an association was being formed in Europe  and another in the United States of America.
(40) Mr. HACQUAERT (Belgium) seconded the  proposal.
(41) Mr. SEDES (France) said that the French dele-  gation attached great importance to that chapter and  approved the long-term progremme which would  make it possible for all departments to take a greater  part in the various tasks cons -7te& with adult  education,
(42) Referring to paragraph 327, the French delegate  proposed that the sentence "in consultation with the  staff specially concerned with adult education" should  be completed by the addition of the words "and with  the practice of the social sciences", and suggested  to the Drafting Committee that they find an expres-  sion more satisfactory than "the common people"
(43) This proposal was seconded by the delegations  of Haiti, Lebanon, and Switzerland.
(44) Mrs. DOUGLAS (Canada), referring to para-  graphs 314 and 315, in which the words "aduit  education, including workers' and women's education"  were used, said that a simple change in wording  would remove the impression that women's education  was somehow not the same as education for adults.  Perhaps the words "also special projects for  women's education" might be inserted.
(45) Mr. FORSYTH (New Zealand) wished to make it  clear that his delegation fully supported the project  as a whole.
(46) As regarded the expression "workers' educa-  tion", used in paragraph 319, it would be better to  say "adult education‘. In New Zealand the word  “former term" had certain ideological implications and  it should not be suggested that distinctions should be  made in educational needs along class lines.  BUDGET COMMISSION     IV-14
(47) In connexion with paragraph 322, he would  suggest that the Consultative Committee on Adult  Education, therein mentioned, should be made more  representative of the world as a whole.
(48) In paragraph 332, mention was made of a per-  manent International Centre. Was the Secretariat  satisfied that with its existing resources and staff il  could organize and direct the activities of such a  centre.
(49) Mrs. JOBORU (Hungary) said that her country,  since the war, had acquired much valuable experience  in adult education. It would be very willing to offer  other Member States the benefit of that experience.
(50) Mr. CASSANI (Argentina) was in agreement with  the part of the programme under examination and with  the suggestions presented by New Zealand and Canada  for altering the wording of paragraph 314. He con-  sidered that the words "workers" and "women" should  be deleted, as it was absurd io talk of adult education  that excluded workers and women. He thought the  most suitable wording would be: “Member States are  invited to encourage the development of adult educa-  tion, of both. men and women without exception". In  that form he unreservedly supported the paragraph in  questinn.
(51) Mr. ANGELL (United States of America) wel-  comed the two resolutions 1.321 aia 1.322 as also the  statement by the delegate of Switzui1and on the  principles involved,
(52) As regarded the wording of paragraphs 314, 315  and 319, the distinction made between workers' and  women's education, as branches of adult education,  was, he felt, a valid one. Inthe United States of  America there were no less than thirty million men  and women belonging to labour unions of one kind or  another which actively promoted adult education for  better international understanding - the United States  National Commission would be very ready to supply  information about programmes, if requested. He was  therefore in favour of keeping the existing wcrding.
(53) Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) enquired how the  Consultative Committee was constituted. Was the  advice of the National Commissions taken in regard  to the choice of members?
(54) He was a little sarprised that the delegate of the  United States of America was in favour of keeping the  expression "workers' education".
(55) Mrs. PINTO DE VIDAL (Uruguay) stated that,  when the time came, her delegation would vote in  favour of the resolution in the form in which it had  been presented. However, the fact that the Swiss  delegate had alluded to the Universidad del Trabajo  (Workers' Ui.iversity) in Uruguay led her to declare  that from the age of twelve upwards everyone could  be admitted to that university; it taught all the work-  ing techniques in use not only in Montevideo, but  throughout the country.
(56) She pointed out that in Uruguay there were  primary courses for adults, which both men and  women could attend. As a rule, they were  evening courses arranged for those who worked  during the day.  - 355 -   IV-14 PROGRAMME AND
(57) For secondary education, a secondary school  with evening classes had been organized on the same  lines.
(58) Higher education was open to all those who had  completed primary and secondary education.
(59) With regard to the expression "workers and  women'', appearing in resolution 1.321 (paragraph
314), she considered that the word "adults' would be  sufficient.
(60) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) was surprised that the  chapter nowhere mentioned the trade union movement.  Did Unesco not collaborate with the different bodies  representing that movement ?
(61) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education),  commenting on the expression "workers' education"  used by the Secretariat, said that the word "worker"  obviously had different connotations in different  countries; there were historical reasons for that.
(62) The Secretariat was in frequent consultation  with workers' organizations of various kinds, and  often helped international non-governmental organiza-  tions and international trade unions to organize  summer schools in adult education. ‘There was  therefore some reason for making a special refer-  ence to workers' education.
(63) As regarded women's education, there was, in  the Unived Nations, a special commission on the  status of women, which was continually asking  Unesco what it was doing for women. For that  reason the Secretariat had made specific reference  to women's education more to protect itself against  criticism from that quarter than for any logical  reason.
(64) It had been suggested that the text might be ex-  panded to show that the Department of Education  worked in co-operation with the Department of Social  Sciences and other departments. The Secretariat  was quite prepared to make such an addition, but he  could assure the Commission that such collaboration  already existed.
(65) With regard to the question raised by the dele-  gate of New Zealand about the permanent International  Centre mentioned in paragraph 332, the field was one  in which expansion had been impnssible because of  pressure to give priority to school education and  fundamental education. But it was planned to go  ahead as soon as the budget permitted.
(66) Mr. HORNE (International Confederation of  Free Trade Unions) stated that workers did not  think that educational, cultural and scientific activi-  ties could achieve .heir real objectives if workers,  who were an important and large body of the popula-  tion, were excluded from them.
(67) Two recommendations in the education  programme deserved the firmest support from  ICFTU: the transformation of the International  Workers' Educational Centre through the decentra-  lization of its activities, and the transference of  international summer schools run by international  non-governmental organizations to underdeveloped  areas. -
(68) ICFTU had been pleased with the proposals  contained in the draft resolution concerning the  organization of national or regional adult education  BUDGET     COMMISSION  seminars. He stressed the need for full co-operatior  between the competent national or regional organiza-  tions, including trade union organizations, in the  running of such seminars.
(69) He praised Unesco activities in underdeveloped  areas.
(70) He also expressed his satisfaction at the  increased possibilities offered by Unesco to non-  governmental organizations in the last two years, and  hoped that that interest would grow.
(71) Although, at the international level, relations  between ICFTU and Unesco had certainly been  generally satisfactory, collaboration between free  trade union organizations and a large number of  Unesco National Commissions left much to be desired.  It was only exceptionally that representatives of  workers! organizations were members of National  Commissions, or were consulted by National Com-  missions on problems of particular concern to  workers. The work that Unesco was doing in Member  States through its National Commissions would be  seriously compromised if trade union organizations  were not represented on them as they should be.  Consequently, ICFTU asked Unesco once more to  request Member States to appoint representatives of  workers' organizations to sit on National Commissions  as well as to select them as members of delegations  to Unesco General Conferences.
(72) Mr. VIEBRA FERNANDEZ (International  Federation of Christian Trade Unions) supported what  the previous delegate had said.
(73) Although the work that Unesco was doing was  effective, he believed that it had not been understood  by the general public; most of the inhabitants of  Montevideo were still wondering what Unesco was and  what purpose it served. For that reason he considered  that, when the general public started to understand  and take interest in Unesco, it would be very near to  achieving the result that it was seeking: to achieve  peace through culture.
(74) He was in agreement with all that had been done  and was to be done for the education of children, who  formed the essence of tomorrow's community, but he  considered that the workers were the reality of today  and that, for that reason, their education should not  be neglected.
(75) He thought tbat, if the workers took a more  active part in Unesco activities, it would dispel the  idea that Unesco was ro more than a gathering of  intellectuals who talked a great deal but did little or  nothing.
(76) Mrs. PINTO DE VIDAL (Uruguay) recalled that  the distinguished Italian delegate had stated at the  last meeting that he no longer wished to take part in  the debates of the Commission. Although she did not  know the reason for that drastic decision, she would  ask the Italian delegate to reverse it and continue to  assist with his wide knowledge and experience in  solving the problems facing Unesco.  {77) The CHAIRMAN said that, under the procedure,
1t was not possible to reverse a decision taken on  the previous day.
(78) He recalled that all delegations none the less  had the right to present in the form of oral proposals  - 356 -   PROGRAMME AND  draft resolutions on which the Advisory Committee  had not been able to give its opinion.
(19) Mr. CALO (Italy), after thanking the delegate  of Uruguay for the friendly words addressed to his  country, stated that he had made reservations about  the usefulness of taking part in the discussion and  above all had declared that he would avoid making  suggestions which constantly came up against  budgetary obstacles.
(80) Mr. Calo considered that the problem in adult  education which required urgent solution before all  others was that of training teaching staff.
(81) The establishment of permanent courses, in  which workers could take a personal part to explain  their desires and impart their experiences and con-  cerns, would be a first step in that direction.
(82) The teaching profession and university circles  could also give a great impulse to adult education.  Universities should therefore be encouraged to inten-  sify their university extension courses as practised  so successfully in English-speaking countries.
(83) Mr. Calo then referred to the highly desirable  creation of a permanent international adult education  centre and assumed that the present Consultative  Committee on Adult Education would be merged in the  new body, since it would be doing the same work.
(84) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) stated that  Brazilian experts on their return from a seminar at  the International Workers! Centre (La Brévière) had  launched an active movement for fundamental educa-  tion; they hoped to get wider support in the national  field.
(85) On the basis of that example, the delegate of  Brazil drew the Commission's attention to the text  of a draft recommendation which had no budgetary  implications but which would be of great help to  Member States who had to face those problems.
(86) The CHAIRMAN then reminded the meeting that  the Commission had to take a decision on several  proposals, notably on the amendment to resolution
1.322 presented by the delegation of Switzerland  (seconded by Belgium).
(87) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  said that an expert committee convened by Unesco  had considered the possibility of forming an associa-  tion of adult education movements. That committee  had given most sympathetic consideration to the  problem, but had reluctantly concluded that, in view  of the diversity of such movements, the tume did not  seem ripe to carry the matter further. Did the  Commission think that the problem should be given  further consideration?
(88) Mr. WEILENMANN (Switzerland) felt, neverthe-  less, that it would be good if Unesco were to help in  the formation of regional associations.
(89) The Swiss proposal that Unesco should foster  collaboration between the various adult education  movements was put to the vote and adopted by 24  votes to 0, with 19 abstentions.
(80) The French proposal (seconded by the  BUDGET     COMMISSION IV-14  Netherlands), to amend the last line of paragraph
327 to read: "adult education and, in co-operation  with social science experts, to adapt their programmes  to the needs of the common people’ was unanimously  adopted.
(91) The Brazilian resolution (seconded by Argentina)  was amended so that the words "fundamental educa-  tion" read "fundamental and adult education".
(92) It was subsequently put to the vote and adopted  by 34 votes to 0 with 5 abstentions.  (A) Consultation at the international level (paragraphs
(93) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education),  answering a question raised earlier by the delegate  of the United Kingdom, said that thitherto the Com-  mittee mentioned in paragraph 334 had been small
(10 or 12 members). Its members were not nominated  by National Commissions, since that would have  involved asking no less than seventy-two such com-  missions to put forward candidates. Also there were  the interests of the non-governmental organizations  to be considered.
(94) The Committee was made up of individuals drawn  from countries with much experience of adult educa-  tion, or from suitable non-governmental bodies. When  a member of the Committee did not come from some  clearly international organization, informal contact  was kept with the National Commission of his home  country.
(95) A suggestion had recently been made, and had  been approved by the Director-General, that a list of  thirty associate members should be drawn up. Per-  sons unable to attend meetings of the Committee at  frequent intervals would be included in that list. It  was proposed to ask some of those associate members  to take part, in turn, in the meetings held by the  Committee.
(96) The membership of the Committee changed from  time to time, and was not exclusively European.
328, 329 and 330 laid stress on the need for regional  meetings and called for special efforts to be made in  the underdeveloped countries.
(98) Accordingly, he felt that the Committee in ques-  tion should be such as topermit the active participation  of the various parts of the world. A fundamentally  European body inviting persons from elsewhere from  time to time was not enough, since most of the peoples  of the world lived in the underdeveloped areas.  (F3) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  said that a distinction had to be made between funda-  mental education (normally understood to mean basic  education for those who had not enjoyed a normal  schooling) and adult education (i.e., further education  for those who had had a normal education),
(100) Adult education movements were most strongly  developed in the countries where literacy was most  widespread, and thence, in setting up the Consultative  Committee, it was inevitable that recourse should be  had, first anc foremost, to such countries, The  Committee itself was anxious to be broader, but it was  - 357 -   IV-14 PROGRAMME AND  difficult to give exactly equal representation to the  various parts of the world without interfering with  the basic purposes of the Committee.
(101) Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia) said that, if what  the previous speaker had said was true, paragraphs
328, 329 and 330 were largely meaningless. The  point was that the countries with large illiterate  populations were trying to industrialize and wished  to benefit from the experience acquired, and the  mistakes made, in the more highly developed  countries.
(102) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  said that, in setting up a committee to conduct a  literacy campaign, it would surely be only logical to  have recourse to countries which were culturally  more high'y developed. It was natural that the  Éountries with highly developed adult education move-  ments should be called on to provide most of the  members of the Committee.
(103) Paragraphs 328-330 were not meaningless.  In fact, that very year, there had been two seminars  in adult education, one in India, the other in Latin  America.
(104) Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia) said that the Social  Science Department was holding a meeting in the  Ivory Coast on problems of industrialization and  urbanization, which surely proved that such prob-  lems were not peculiar to European countries. Africa  was rapidly evolving, particularly in areas like the  Congo and South Africa, and should not be used by the  rest of the world for experimental! purposes only.  The machinery already existed for making use of  African experience and should be used.
(105) Mr. AL-HILLI (Iraq) enquired whether the  Committee included any member: from the Arab  countries.
(106) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  said 1t did not. No adult education movement of any  strength existed in the Arab countries, but represen-  tatives of the Arab States would attend seminars on  adult education.
(107) Mr. AL-HILLI (Iraq) said that, in his country,  there were evening classes on a wide scale. No  fewer than 3, 000 lawyers had graduated from such  classes alone, and similar figures could be given for  other Arab countries. It was important, therefore,  that there should be an Arab member of the  Committee
(108) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  had much sympathy with the views expressed as  regarded the terms "fundamental education" and  "adult education', havingasked the same question him-  self onfirst entering Unesco. He hadoftensuggested  that work should be divided under headings, according  to the type of personto whom those activities were  directed. But inthe circumstances the best course was  probably to keep the twoterms "fundamental education”  and "adult education" as ordinarily used, i.e., under-  standing, under "adult education", the further education  of those whohad already enjoyed an ordinary schooling.  - 358 -  BUDGET     COMMISSION
(109) Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) supported what  had been said by the delegate of Liberia. He had  lived in Africa and he was in a position to affirm that  there did exist, in Africa South of the Sahara, a  growing movement for adult education as that term  was normally understood in Europe.
(110) In the Gold Coast, for example, an organization  known as the People's Education Association was  doing work very similar to that performed by the  Workers! Educational Association in Great Britain,  and the University College of the Gold Coast was also  active. Other examples could doubtless be given for  Sierra Leone and elsewhere. It was certain therefore  that there did exist, in Africa, people well qualified  to advise the Committee, or at least to serve on the  consultative panel.
(111) Mr. BARRIOS (Nicaragua) thought that funda-  mental education embraced rural and adult education;  beyond being a method of teaching, it was a philosophy  of education, the purpose of which was to co-operate  with those two branches of teaching (rural and adult).
(112) Mr. SANDOVAL VALLARTA (Mexico) proposed,  in accordance with Rule 76 of the Rules of Procedure  of the General Conference, that the debate be closed  and that a vote be taken on paragraphs 334 to 336.
(113) Mr. BARDALES (Honduras) stated that the  general lines of the fundamental education school were  laid down at the seminar in Rio de Janeiro in 1949.  It was said on that occasion that there was a serious  shortage of primary schools in Latin America and in  other countries and that the population of school age  had no chance to attend school, while even those who  could do so, remained only one or two years. It was  for that reason that the name of "fundamental educa-  tion!" had been given to a minimum teaching period of  three years with the object of extending it to the whole  population, including adults and children.
(114) He thought that adult education should be for  those who already had some fundamental education and  wished to widen their knowledge; that included those  who had studied in schools of all types. Adult educa-  tion also aimed at improving the condition of the  workers (manual and professional).
(115) Section (A) was unammously approved.  (B) Summer schools and training courses for mem-  bers of approved international organizati_ns  (paragraphs 337-339)
(116) Unanimously approved.  (C) Technical aid to Member States (paragraphs
(117) The CHAIRMAN recalled that the Commission  at the previous day's meeting had decided to delete  the word "technical".
(118) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) pointed out (with  reference only to the French text) that the wording  "en vue de l'organisation de cours" in resolution 1. 323  was too restrictive, as the organization of  seminars was also proposed.   PROGRAMME AND
(118) Mr. MARTI (El Salvador) asked that the part  of the paragraph which read: "including workers!  and women's education" should be deleted. He  thought it was clear that workers' and women's  education was included in adult education.
(120) The CHAIRMAN said that that point had already  been discussed and that it had been decided to «eep  the present wording.
(121) Mr. FORSYTH (New Zealand) said that, at a  meeting held by his National Commission, there had  been a person who had attended two seminars on  adult education. That person had made two sugges-  tions, first, that there should be a broader  geographical representation at such seminars and,  second, that, before the seminar met, its aims should  be clearly defined by the Secretariat. Much time  had been lost in deciding whether the seminar was  merely a group of individuals or a group called upon  to submit a report.
(122) Resolution 1.323 was unanimously adopted.  Project 1.33. Work with youth  Paragraphs 351-371
(123) Mr. HACQUAERT (Belgium) regretted, in  view of the importance and of the occasional diffi-  culty of relations with youth movements, that the  post of a qualified staff member had been suppressed.  He urged that that post be maintained.
(124) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) considered that the  reduction of credits for that chapter by 12% was not  compensated in its effects, as the Director of the  Department of Education had given to understand, by  the subventions granted to the Youth Institute, which  was not a recent creation; ‘urthermore, it served  an informative purpose and stood aside from the  active rôle which that branch of the Department of  Education had to play.
(125) Mr. Frangois stigmatized the complete failure  of the present programme to fulfil the promises con-  tained in the Florence programme. Most young  people escaped early from the school atmosphere,  and youth movements could alone take them in hand.  The Council of Europe, with its fourteen Member  States, supported those movements with sums ten  times those provided by Unesco.
(126) For that reason the French delegation proposed  that the credits for contracts and the purchase of  publications should be increased by $5, 000 and  $1,500 per annum respectively.
(127) The proposal was seconded by Belgium, Brazii,  Italy and the Lebanon.
(128) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) recalled that Unesco's  first efforts in the field had met with a cool recep-  tion and that young people themselves had been  sceptical about the results to be obtained from them;  he was disappointed to see the credits cut in that  particular chapter.
(129) He considered that a larger place should be  given to contracts drawn up with youth organizations  BUDGET     COMMISSION 1V-14  if real encouragement was to be given to ideas of  co-operation and citizenship in the international field.
(130) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  pointed out that the figures in paragraph 351 showed  the scale of expenditure for 1953 and 1954, as well as  the proposed expenditure for 1955 and 1956.
(131) Tl: total expenditure for the first period had  been estimated at $143,000. Proposed expenditure  had been cut to $136,000 - a reduction of only $7, 000.
(132) It had to be remembered that the normal budget  of Unesco v as expected to find $64, 000 for the Youth  Institute at Gauting.
(133) As regarded staffing, 1t was not often that the  Secretariat could give light-hearted approval to staff  reductions, but 1t was a fact that the work in question  could be performed with the staff proposed, 1.e., with  one established post less.
(134) Paragraphs 351-371 (Work with youth) were  unanimously adopted.  (A) Associated youth enterprises (paragraphs 372-384)
(135) The proposal of the French delegation (DR/100),  seconded by the delegations of Belgium, Brazil, Italy  and the Lebanon was approved by 14 votes to 10 with
17 abstentions.
(136) Mr. HACQUAERT (Belgium) proposed that  "access of women to education" should be added as a  theme to the subjects of study enumerated in para-  graph 376.
(137) Referring to paragraph 380, he furthermore  suggested that Unesco should encourage the Interna-  tional! Federation of Organizations for School  Correspondence and Travel to extend its aid to youth  movements.
(138) With regard to paragraph 381, which proposed  the creation of a Consultative Committee on Youth  Work, Mr. Hacquaert thought that experts should be  chosen in collaboration with the large international  youth associations, so that scout movements and  workers and correspondence associations etc., should  be represented on the Committee.
(129) In addition, he asked Unesco to consider paying  not only travel expenses but also a per diem allowance.
(140) Mr. STEINIG (United Nations) said that the  United Nations naturally took the keenest interest in  Unesco's work with youth, 1n so far as youth work  represented a contribution to international understan-  ding, and also in so far as Unesco's work impinged  on special United Nations projects, such as the pre-  vention of juvenile delinquency, and youth welfare  services.
(141) He would reiterate the assurances given by the  Secretary-General of the United Nations to the  Director-General of Unesco that the United Nations  would co-operate to the full with Unesco in planning  further projects and in preparing the agenda for  seminars and conferences in that field.
(142) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) shared the Belgian  delegate's point of view,
(143) He added, however, that the Consultative  Committee proposed under paragraph 381 should be  - 359 -   IV-14 PROGRAMME AND  formed on the basis of a wide geographical distribu-  tion. In Near and Middle Eastern countries, in  particular, youth movements were very popular.
(144) Mr. CLEGG (United Kingdom) said that, in  paragraph 374, the Director-General would "inform"  Member States, National Commissions, etc., of the  prorosed scheme and of the conditions for associa-  tion. Surely it would be better if he consulted  National Commissions and youth organizations first?  As a compromise, he would suggest that National  Commissions and youth organizations be given time  to make their comments.
(145) As regarded paragraph 381, how would the  members of the Consultative Committee on Youth  Work be chosen? Would the National Commissions  be consuited ?
(146) The CHAIRMAN recalled that the problem of  contacts between Unesco and the National Commis-  sions had already arisen several times. It seemed  that they could not be as direct as would sometimes  be desirable, because governments had tobe informed  of such steps being taken.
(147) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  explained that the members of the Committee would  largely be drawn from international youth organiza-  tions, and would be selected primarily for their  international standing. Their nationality, therefore,  would be more or less incidental, although he saw no  objection to informing National Commissions of the  choices made.
(148) As regarded paragraph 381, it had been sug-  gested that Unesco pay travel costs plus per diem  allowances. That was a suggestion the Secretariat  could accept. If the Committee met once a year, for  five days, the cost would be $1, 000 a year.
(149) As to the point raised by the United Kingdom  (paragraph 374), the Secretariat would most certainly  send out proposals well in advance and leave time for  comments to be received before any final decision  was taken.
(150) Mrs. PINTO DE VIDAL (Uruguay) said that,  in dealing with the chapter regarding youth organiza-  tions likely to.improve international understanding,  mention should be made of one such organization  which deserved Unesco's attention: the Junior Red  Cross. It was a branch of the International Red  Cross and was based on three principles: the health  of young people, national solidarity and international  solidarity. Unesco had taken an interest in the  organization and had granted scholarships to some  of its members. It would be a good thing to organize  camps with government aid; the friendships between  young people and adolescents which might be formed  there would be a very valuable factor in understan-  ding. She therefore hoped that Unesco would consider  what she had said, with a view to aiding the Junior  Red Cross throughout the world.
(151) Mrs. LEGARDA (Philippines) said that in her  country there were plenty of youth movements - boy  scouts, girl guides, Catholic youth, etc. The prob-  lem was rather how to cater for young people not yet  organized in youth movements and for young people  - 360 -  BUDGET     COMMISSION  out of school hours. She would therefore urge the  adoption of paragraph 381, with special reference to  that problem, which was closely bound up with the  problem of juvenile delinquency and the provision of  suitable films and literature for young people.
(152) Paragraphs 372-384, as amended by France,  were unanimously adopted, subject to the comments  made.  (B) Collaboration with the Unesco Youth Institute,  Gauting (paragraphs 385-395)
(153) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Australia), speaking  as Chairman of the Advisory Committee on Pro-  gramme and Budget, said that there had been doubts  in the Committee as to financial support for the  Institute. The Committee, after lengthy discussion,  had been of opinion that the Institute had been in  existence for too short a time for any final judgment  on its usefulness to be passed, and so had recommen-  ded that the estimate of expenditure should be  maintained, and that the Director-General should  submit a critical study on the matter to the ninth  session of the Conference,
(154) The Committee had drawn attention to the  report by the Expert Committee on Education for  International Understanding and Co-operation. Both  staff and studies should be made more international  in character, and the results of the studies carried  out should be disserninated.
(155) Paragraphs 385-395 were unanimously adopted.  (C) The rôle of sport in education (paragraphs 396-398)
(156) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commission)  said that the question was explained in detail in  document 8C/PRG/12.
(157) Mr. CALO (Italy) was surprised that large  international organizations like the World Health  Organization and the International Council of Philo-  sophy and Humanistic Studies had not been invited by  Unesco to take part in the preliminary studies in a  field in which their opinion might carry particular  weight.
(158) Public health specialists, physiologists,  pediatrists and moralists had constantly expressed  doubts of the value of sport in character formation  (when practised intensively and from an early age)  unless it led gradually from simple games to compe-  titions properly so called, passing through the stages  of methodical exercise and moderate sporting  activity.
(159) For that reason, the Italian delegation, which  had always strongly favoured all exchanges of infor-  mation between Member States, now thought it  necessary to call an international conference or a  meeting of experts to study, on the basis of question-  naires and other documentation, more particularly:
1. The influence of sports organizations and  international sports meetings on the development of  international co-operation and understanding;
2. The desirability of sport at different ages and  scholastic levels.
(160) Those problems should also be studied by the   PROGRAMME AND  Youth Institute at Gauting; senior boys and girls  obviously had something to say on the question of  sport as a factor in education.
(161) It was only a suggestion, but the Itahan delega-  tion would be glad if it were taken into consideration.
(162) Mrs. JOBORU (Hungary) said that her Govern-  ment gave every encouragement to sport both at  school and outside, and much valuable experience  had been acquired. Sport, if properly organized,  helped to build character and contributed to inierna-  tional understanding among young people.
(163) Hungary, which had achieved great successes  in the field of sport, would be very ready to take part  in any scheme for the pooling of information and  experience in connexion with the rôle of sport in  education.
(164) Mr. BROWNELL (United States of America)  said that, while the United States of America had  been criticized for the almost excessive importance  it attached to sport as a means of education, he  questioned how far Unesco could go in the matter  under discussion, in view of pressing educational  needs in other fields.
(165) Two organizations in the United States of  America had just made a careful study of the problem  (the North Central Association of Colleges and Secon-  dary Schools, and later the Educational Policy  Commission of the Urited States). Their findings  might usefully be consulted by the Conference.
(166) Mr. STEWART (Canada) said that, while the  paragraphs in question had no budgetary implications,  there might well be some in two years! time.
(167) In document 8C/PRG/!2, Canada was quoted,  but, while Unesco must have consulted various organs,  it had not consulted the educational authorities. If  the resolution 1. 332 were adopted, confusion might  well result, unless the points on which Member States  were consulted were very clearly defined. Informa-  tion might be submitted, for example, on semi-  commercial or commercial sport. Hence he would  support the United States proposal (document
8C/PRG/12) that none of the activities mentioned in  resolution 1. 353 of the seventh session be undertaken.
(168) Mr. CLEGG (United Kingdom) said that, if the  value traditionally ascribed to organized games was  taken for granted, and it was assumed that Unesco  was not concerned with a favoured minority, the  practical problem which arose was the following: did  there exist, in the great cities and agglomerations,  sufficient open ground available for games?
(168) The Advisory Council on Education in Scotland  had decided that not enough ground was available in  Scottish towns. It had, however, suggested that a  careful enquiry ought to be carried out. As far as he  knew, no such enquiry had been made.
(170) He would suggest two lines of enquiry. Firstly,  was enough ground available? Secondly, if not, could  games be encouraged involving less ground but  inculcating the real or supposed virtues of organized  games ?
(171) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) thought that the object  of the consultations and studies proposed by the authors  - 361 -  BUDGET     COMMISSION IV-14  of paragraphs 396 and 397 was to throw light  nationally and internationally on the great problem  of the coexistence of amateur and professional  sport; it was certainly within the scope of Unesco to  ask Member States in which the problem existed to  make a study of the repercussions of professional  sport on education, and France would particularly  need to know how those things were arranged in other  countries.
(172) The French Government would even be prepared  to devote large sums to a study of the kind and would  probably be glad to know the results of the large-scale  enquiry of which the delegate of the United States of  America had spoken.
(173) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) thought  that there were two distinct aspects of the rôle of  sport in education: on the one hand, there was sport  as seen in the framework of physical culture, on the  other, the part it could play and the effects it could  have in the field of international understanding.
(174) The delegate of Brazil considered that Unesco,  through resolutions appearing in other parts of the  programme, was already in a position to face the  tasks that that implied, and he thought that too great  an importance would be attached to sporting organiza-  tions, which anyway had more money than did cultural  organizations, if the question were given special  attention.
(175) The proposal submitted by the delegation of  the United States of America was rejected by 16 votes  to 8 with 15 abstentions.
(176) Resolutions 1.331 and 1. 332 were unanimously  adopted.  Creation by Unesco of an International School in  Paris (document 8C/PRG/1)
(177) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Australia), speaking  as Chairman of the Advisory Committee on Pro-  gramme and Budget, said that his Committee, after  considering the recommendation by the Expert  Committee on Education for International Understan-  ding and Co-operation had decided to support the  experts' view that, while there might be a call for  such a school, Unesco should not take the initiative  of founding it.
(178) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  said that clear advice had been given by the Expert  Committee and by the Advisory Committee, so per-  haps no comment was appropriate.
(179) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) said that his country  was very pleased to welcome children of different  nationalities in its schools, but was also anxious to  educate them in such a way as to satisfy the very  varying aspirations of parents.
(180) He therefore wondered whether that direct  experiment in international understanding was not,  first and foremost, part of the mission which Unesco  had undertaken and whether that eminently varied  sphere was not the best suited to the study of the  possibilities for developing the idea of living in a  world community.   IV-14 PROGRAMME AND
(181) For that reason the French delegaticn would  favour the Secretariat's continuing the study of that  project while envisaging the formation of an expert  committee, which would naturally be composed of  education=lists, but also of legal experts, since one  day the problem of the equivalence of degrees woull  arise,
(182) As regarded the financial aspect of the ques-  tion, the French delegate recalled that the French  Ministry of Education had promised to collaborate  directly with Unesco by offering to put the necessary  teaching and administrative staff at its disposal.
(183) Mr. FORSYTH (New Zealand) was against the  scheme. Such a school would be founded merely to  render a service to international officials, and could  never be considered a Unesco project in the field of  work for international understanding. In addition,  many parents would no doubt want their children to  obtain higher education in their home countries. It  would be a great blow to Unesco's prestige if the  scheme were a failure. Hence he was strongly  opposed to it.
(184) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) spoke of  the existence of private international schools in  Switzerland, which could achieve the same result  without new schools! intervening, Furthermore, he  considered that a problem might arise in that children,  having studied in this school, could not be certain  that their degrees and diplomas would be recognized  by their own countries or by countries in which they  had to take up their residence.
(185) Mrs. PINTO DE VIDAL (Uruguay) accepted the  creation of the proposed international school in  principle. She particularly supported the expari-  mental character of the school, having regard to the  fact that what was most important would be to give  the pupils basic training both in how to belong to a  world community and in how to be potential citizens  in a local community.
(186) She thought that the school could be set up by  private contributions and would not need financial  aid from Unesco.
(187) She remembered a visit she had paid to the  school for the children of United Nations staff mem -  bers in New York, and she considered that teaching  in a school of that kind would be fraught with difficul-  ties, particularly with regard to languages.
(188) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) said that the  Board had discussed the scheme to determine  whether it could constitute a pilot project or whether  it was merely for the benefit of international officials.  Reports on the international schools in New York and  Geneva had been considered.
(189) The Board had come to no very clear decision  for or against, and had merely referred the document  to the Conference without comment.
(190) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) said that he would be  surprised if Unesco were to ignore a problem to  which many other international organizations, less  directly interested, had already found a solution.
(191) The French delegation had, moreover, done no  more than ask that a study of the kind should be  - 362 -     BUDGET COMMISSION  pursued, so that it could be put before the General  Conference at its next session.
(192) As for the argument of possible failure, put  forward by the New Zealand delegate, its use, for  that project or for others, could only foreshadow  Unesco's own failure.
(193) Mr. SIDDIQI (Pakistan) said that, as a proposal  to offer reasonable facilities to international officials  in educating their children, the scheme had much to  be said for it.
(194) Such a school, however, could never be coa-  sidered a pilot project, as it would be operating under  very special conditions.
(195) Mr. CALO (Italy) was in agreement with the  continued study of a project of the kind and paid  tribute to the generosity of the French offer.
(196) However, if he had to vote on a proposal for  carrying out the project immediately, he would feel  obliged to abstain, as he doubted the desirability of  early bilingualism or multilingualism, as much from  the educational point of view as in the fu. mation of  character.
(197) Mr. CLEGG (United Kingdom) thought that,  with so untypical a group of pupils, such a scheme  could never be a pilot project. In addition, how  could Unesco with a good conscience set up a costly  school when dedicated to the cause of free compulsory  education for all? At 2 time when so much urgent  work remained to be done elsewhere, the scheme  was wholly unsatisfactory.
(198) Mr. SUNDARAM (India) could not support the  scheme. How much support was there for such a  school amongst the staff of Unesco? It would be by  no means easy to find suitable staff. It would be  better to leave the creation of such a school to  voluntary enterprise.
(199) Then there was the grave problem of religious  education, a question on which parents might have  strong views. The difficulties were so great that  there was no point in further study.
(200) Mr. FAWZI (Egypt) thought that fear of the  school being a failure was no argument against its  establishment.
(201) The French offer was extraordinarily generous  and offered a unique opportunity of assembling chil-  dren of all nationalities and creeds for an experiment  in peaceful coexistence.
(202) He himself had been against the scheme in the  Advisory Committee, but had since changed his view  and had become a firm supporter.
(203) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  said that the school would certainly offer a most  interesting opportunity for experiment. At the same  time, conditions would be very far from typical. In  addition, the school would be competing with other  schools in Paris. There were, for example, an  American school, an Anglo-French school, a Swedish  school, and possibly other national schools, besides  the French oncs.
(204) Then, again, there might be financial difficul-  ties. The financial calculations had been bas: d on the   PROGRAMME AND  assumption that Member States would supply teachers  without cost. Hitherto, only France had made such  an offer.  {205) There would be the capital costs of some  $550, 000, which would have to he borrowed. If the  scheme were adopted, the Conference would have to  authorize a loan from the Working Capital Fund to  borrow half of the money required; the rest would  no doubt have to be raised from some French agency.
(206) The delegate of France had suggested that the  principle involved should be further studied. But  that had already been done at length in the document  itself.
(207) Hence .t would be well to take a decision forth-  with on the principle involved. If the principle were  rejected, there would be no call for further study.  If it were adopted, there would be need of course for  planning.  BUDGET     COMMISSION rv-15
(208) By 25 votes to 2, with 16 abstentions, it was  decided that Unesco should not create such a school.
(209) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  said that the Commission had recommended increases  in the expenditure of the Education Department amoun-  ting to $96, 990 net. Should the Director-General  continue to submit proposals for reductions?
(210) The CHAIRMAN recalled that, in accordance  with an earlier decision, the Commission was entirely  free after it had finished its examination of the pro-  gramme as a whole to return to each main chapter  separately and to hear what the Director-General had  to say about suchdetailed adjustments as he thought  possible.  The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m,  FIFTEENTH MEETING
29 November 1954 at 10a.m.  Chairman : Mr, BOURGEOIS (Switzerland)
(1) Before the debate on the programme of the  Department of Natural Sciences began, Mr. SEVERI  (Italy) wished to pay tribute to the memory of the  physicist, Fermi, who had just died from cancer in  Chicago. Fermi, who was born in Italy and had  taught for several years at the University of Rome,  had done remarkable work on nuclear physics and  artificial radio-activity. Mr. Severi hoped that  Fermi's discoveries would be used solely in the  service of civilization and peace, and that the great  scientist, whose death was so untimely, would be  counted amongst the benetactors of mankind.
(2) Mr. ANGELL (United States of America) wished,  in the absence of the United States scientific repres-  entative, to express his delegation's deep regret at  the untimely death of Professor Fermi, which had cut  short a career with great potentialities for world  peace and security. The United States of America,  the home of much of Professor Fermi's work, could  not but suffer from the loss.
(3) Mr. LEROY (France), on behalf of the French  delegation, expressed sympathy with scientific  circles in Italy and the United States of America in  their loss.
(4) Mr. SANDOVAL VALLARTA (Mexico),on behalf of  his delegation, joined inthe tribute paidtothe memory  of Enrico Fermi. He had personal reasons for doing so,  as he had known him and been a friend of his, and national  reasons, as the distinguished research worker hadhad  scientific contacts with Mexico for more than 20 years.
(5) The CHAIRMAN asked the Commission to observe  a few moments' silence in homage to the memory of  Enrico Fermi.
(6) He reminded the Commission that the decisions it  had taken when discussing the Education Department's  programme had resulted in an increase of nearly  $100, 000 in the buugct estimates. He suggested that  the Commission consider the other chapters of the  draft programme and budget and refer its recammen-  dations to the Advisory Corimittee on Programme and  Budget, which would study them at the same time as  the Director-General's proposals. The Commission  could then consider the views expressed by the Com-  mittee and draw up its final report for the General  Conference.
(7) The Chairman then drew his colleagues’ attention  to the need for expediting the discussions and Limiting  th: ir remarks to the essential minimum. Even then,  evening meetings would perhaps be required to get  through the Commission's extremely heavy agenda.  ITEM 8.4.2 OF RFVISED AGENDA: NATURAL SCIENCES  Paragraphs 1-16
(8) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) first paid tribute to the scientific genius of  Enrico Fermi, with whom he had on several occasions  been able to collaborate.
(9) He then said that it would be difficult for him to  give the Commission full details of his Department's  programme in a few minutes. Much had been said  - 363 -