16 November 1954 at 3.30 p.m.  President : Mr. ZAVALA MUNIZ (Uruguay)  CONTENTS  Discussion of the Director-General's Report (continued)  Speeches hv the delegates of Brazil, New Zealand, Israel,  Colombia, China, Philippines,  Soviet Socialist Republic,  Umion of Burma, Ukrainian  Union of South Africa, German  Federal Republic, France, United Kingdom and the repres-  entative of WHO. . . . . . . ..  DISCUSSION OF THE DIRECTOR-GENFRAL'S REPORT  (continued)  {1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spaaish):  I call on the delegate of Brazil.
(2) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) (Translation  from the French): Mr. President, ladies and gentle-  men, Unesco, in deciding to meet this year at Monte-  video, paid deserved tribute to the civic virtues, in-  ternational spirit and great cultural achievements of  the Uruguayan people. :  Nowhere would we have found an intellectual and  moral atmosphere more conducive to the accomp.ish-  ment of our work. Everything around us bears the  inspiring and ennobling imprint of freedom. Every-  thing around us holds out the prospect of a happier  future for mankind. To the expressions of sympathy  and admiration conveyed to the Government of Uru-  guay by all the members of this assembly, I should  like to add the fraternal greetings of my country.
(3) The proposed programme presented to this as-  sembly by the Director-General is, 1 think, worthy  of the highest praise. Slight alterations may, “of  course, be necessary here and there; and we nay  even decide, in the light of our discussion, t- make  certain changes of form or substance. But, aken  as a whole, it constitutes an excellent surve ; of our  work plans. The division of each chapter into two  parts, one dealing with the services and obligations  proposed for Member States as a whole, the other  with undertakings related to specific problems af-  fecting certain groups of States, is a most useful  innovation. Since the first set of projects are of a .  permanent nature, the second temporary, this  arrangement is an eminently logical one,
(4) I am happy to inform you at the outset, Mr.  Director-General, that the Brazilian delegation will  support your proposals with the utmost enthusiasm,  and approves unreservedly the higher budgetary level  you propose. Each of the proposed projects will he  - 114 -     studied and analysed in detail, at the appropriate  moment, in the various commissions and commit-  tres.
(5) I should like to congratulate you also on your  excellent report on the activities of the Organization  during the eighteen months of your term of office.  Those who, like myself, have followed the wor and  life of Unesco since its inception are in a position to  appreciate to the fuli the intensive work done in 1953  and 1954. The Unesco Secretariat has given yet fur-  ther proof of its high standard of efficiency and un-  stinting devotion to duty.
(6) The Executive Board has undoubtedly contribu-  ted much to the success of the work accomplished  under your administration. May I be permitted to  convey my sincere congratulations to my former  colleagues on the Board, and to their eminent Chair-  man, Sir Ronald Adam,
(7) It is unfortunate that, owing to its limited re-  sources, Unesco has not yet been able to match its  programme to the needs and aspirations of most of  its Member States. The vast disparity between our  resources and our aims, instead of decreasing, is  growing daily more marked. The further we ad-  vance along the road mapped out by our Constitution,  the greater are the obstacles we encounter. The  arm of our lever is too short, try as we may, to  lift the weight of ignorance, lack of understanding  and poverty crushing the world. Until such time as  we have overcome the forces of apathy paralysing  our work, there is no point in our wearing nurselves  out in planning and revising programmes, establish-  ing priorities, adopting administrative reforms.  In order to make a muscle contract, the intensity  of the nerve impulse must attain the threshold of  excitability. Until it reaches this point, though the  stimuli are multiplied indefinitely, the muscle will  not react. This law of all or nothing applies to  social mechanisms ay well as to the nervous ;ystem.  Unesco has not attained the threshold of its efficiency.  If it is to exert any influence on the chaotic world   PLENARY  around it, to expand its machinery - its financial re-  sources must be augmented.
(8) I am aware that this is impossible at the present  juncture. We must content ourselves, for the moment,  with the ten million or so dollars in our annual budget.  But we must not despair of better prospects for the  future.
(9) The continent whose guests you are at the moment,  ladies and gentlemen, invites you to consider the pro-  blems of education, sciznce and culture on a scale  corresponding to its vast area, its prodigious stores  of unexploited wealth and its rapidly growing popula-  tion. From our fields, our cities, our factories and  our schools there arise the strains of the Canticle to  Hope which you heard from the lips of the students,  the workers and the peasants of Uruguay on the day  our proceedings were inaugurated: a song of joy but  also a litany laden with the suffering of the humble  and the obscure,
(10) South America offers the strange and spectacu-  lar contrasts of a world in the making. Its cities are  springing up and expanding with breath-taking speed;  its population is being doubled from one generation  to the next; a new type of man, strong and vigorous,  is emerging gradually from the mingling of the races  and peoples who have come here from all quarters of  the globe, attracted by the riches of its soil and the  friendly welcome awaiting them everywhere. South  America is destined to become one of the world's  largest granaries, and a well-nigh inexhaustible  source of vital raw materials for all kinds of indus-  tries. But, behind this stupendous upsurge, behind  this rich promise for the future, there still remains  a mass of men, women and children living in utter  destitution, without schools, books or teachers,  lacking all access to education and culture, hovering  on the fringes of our civilization and our age. In  several of our countries, half the population can  neither read nor write. It is in the interests of us  all, in ycur interests as well as ours, to help them  unstintingly to educate, train and equip themselves,  firstly in order to enlist their valuable natural abili-  ties for the service of the human community, and  secondly in order to help them to exploit  their natural resources.
(11) The same needs and demands exist, I am aware,  in many other parts of the world as well - all the  more reason for taking them carefully into account  when planning for the future,
(12) When we review the most urgent cultural needs  of so many peoples and regions and compare them  with the scanty services we can give them, we can-  not but experience acute disquiet. Indeed, in order  to bear real fruit, each of the main projects in our  programme would by itself require the whole cf our  budget resources. The critically minded accuse us  of raising hopes which are far beyond our fulfilment,  and believe that we are doomed to dally for ever with  illusions, with nothing to offer the world but small  samples in education, science and culture.
(13) Must we accept so sweeping a verdict and re-  sign ourselves to inaction because the work devolv-  ing on us proves too arduous? [| am loath to believe  it. The loyalty we owe to our Constitution, the res-  ponsibilities resting on our shoulders, and the dan-  gers threatening a vast part of the world, defenceless  in the face of ignorance and poverty, make it  - 115 -     MEETINGS 11-8  incumbent cn us to seek a path of salvation, cost  what it may.
(14) A year ago, President Eisenhower, in a speech  dalivered before the United Nations Assembly, spoke  of the deep concern of his country and his Govern-  ment for the cultural needs of our era, In connexion  with the utilization of atomic energy for peaceful  purposes, he gave us a glimpse of the cultural  treasures and abundant wealth which the whole of  mankind could enjoy if only the threat hanging over  the world were dispelled. The words of the Head of  the American State deserve to be recorded in the  records of this Conference as a message of cheer  and hope.
(15) It is, alas, still too early to think of abolishing  our military budget to finance the peaceful cultural  work on which we are engaged. But it might already  be possible for all countries, East and West alike,  to make their contribution to tne creation of an  International Cultural Fund designed to meet the  real needs of the world, as regards ecucation,  science, philosophy, arts and letters, technical and  industrial training, libraries, books, schools, and  travel and study fellowships. À sum equivalent to  only one-hundredth part of present-day military  budgets would suffice to set up a fund sufficient to  provide Unesco with the peaceful tools it needs for  the accomplishment of its mission.
(16) Allow me, Mr. President, to remind this as-  sembly of statesmen, educationalists, sociologists  and scientists of the solemn warning Artigas one  day gave his fellow citizens:  "La causa de los pueblos, no admite, sehores,  la menor demora”".  (The cause of the peoples, gentlemen, brooks no  delay). May this General Conference follow the ad-  vice of the wise founder of your nation, and proceed  forthwith to constructive action.
(17) 1 wish, with your permission, to place under  your august patronage the appeal which I am making  to the most favoured Member States of this Assem-  bly. Great power always entails heavy obligations.  And I know also that generosity is infectious. We  are entitled to hope thai those countries, of both  East and West, which are in a position to remedy  the ills afflicting the great majority of mankind will  not refuse their help. It might perhaps be possible  to set ip immediately, under your auspices, a small  workit, * party to study the proposal I have the hon-  our to submit,
(18) Wy cannot lose the opportunity afforded by  this Cor,prence cf discussing the core of our prob-  lems ant embarking on joint action on the strength  of this discussion. If this debate is conducted with  the goodwill and tolerance befitting our assemblies,
1 am confident that the Montevideo Conference will  constitute the cradle of our renaissance. The cre-  ation of an International Cultural Fund would enable  us to look forward confidently to a new era of enter-  prises designed to meet the real needs of mankind.  The balance between the forces of good and evil,  life and death, hope and despair would thus be re-  stored, Furnished with the necessary implements,  we would resume with a surer hand the work of  building the world of tomorrow. With but one   n-8 PLENARY  hundredth part of the resources hitherto devoted by  man in his folly to his own destruction, it would be  easy to ensure the triumph of the aims and ideals  of our Constitution, and to give millions of outcasts  a full spiritual and material life such as, with the  wealth of our civilization, we are now able to offer  to all alike, without distinction of class, race, reli-  gious belief or political ideology.
(19) This victory is within our grasp; we have but  to stretch out our hands to pluck it.
(20) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call on the delegate of New Zealand.
(21) Mr. BEEBY (New Zealand): Mr. President,  ladies and gentlemen, may 1 first say, on behalf of  the New Zealand delegation, how grateful we are to  be able to spend these few weeks in your lovely and  interesting country; a country which, as you so  eloquently said in your opening speech, is one where  no man can feel a stranger.
(22) I have thought in the last few days more and  * more that this country reminds me of my own, and  there is no greater praise that any man can give to  a country that is not his own. We of the New Zea-  land delegation - the whole two of us - have felt  completly at home here. We feel that we have so  much in common with this country - our size, our  age, our aspirations, our social legislation, our  fighting love of freedom, all those things we feel  are shared here. If 1 could for a moment discard  all modesty and speak on behalf of the Southern  Hemisphere, 1 should like to wrlcome Unesco on its  first visit to this side of the Equator. It is an ex-  perience that will do both Unesco and the Southern  Hemisphere a great amount of good.
(23) And now, if I may turn to the programme of  Unesco, the New Zealand delegation, and the New  Zealand National Commission, of which I am the  Chairman, have asked me to congratulate the  Director-General on his new programme. We bel-  ieve it is a better programme than any that we have  had and, if you will forgive me for a moment being  personal, I would like to break a good rule and refer  to one department. Five years ago 1 was responsible  for the Education programme of Unesco; I should  like to say to the Director-Genzral that I find it now  an infinitely better programme than when I left it.
(24) I should like also to co.igratulate the Executive  Board on its statement on the remodelling of the  future programme, with which we found ourselves  in general, though not necessarily of course, in full  agreement.
(25) We in New Zealand feel some concern about  what might be the results if the new programme  were carried to extremes. We do believe in the  technical assistance programme, in technical aid  of all kinds, within the Unesco programme and in  the expanded programme, to underdeveloped areas;  but we share some of the fears expressed, 1 under-  stand, by other members, that it might lead to some  lack of balance in Unesco's programme. Some of  the technical assistance projects have been among  our most successful and spectacular. To oppose  technical assistance, on the one hand, to interna-  tional understanding, on the other, would be, I  know, to oversimplify. There is not much  MEETINGS
116 -  international understanding in an empty belly or an  ignorant mind, and technical assistance may have  to provide the conditions under which international  understanding can exist. But I feel at times that  possible dangers may follow from a misunderstand-  ing of our old Unesco concept of the free flow of  ideas.
(26) We sometimes speak as if all you had to do to  get ideas to flow in all directions, is to remove  barriers. But when you remove barriers, ideas  do not flow in all directions any more than water  does. If you have water at different levels and  remove the barriers, the water flows downhill and  so, 1 think, do ideas. Ideas, if you merely remove  barriers, flow downhill, and the downhill, in this  case, is descent from the highly technically deve-  loped countries to the countries with a low level of  technical development, the technological gradient,  I might call it, down which flow the motor cars,  the refrigerators, the aeroplanes, the fabrics, the  tools, the gadgets of modern life. With those mat-  erial things flow the ways of life and the thoughts  of the people who make them. If, on the other hard,  people at the lower end of this technological gradient  want to get their ideas to flow to the other countries,  they must flow uphill, flow against the force of  gravity, as it were,
(27) For example, the ideas, the philosophies, the  religions of the Far East, and Eastern ways of life  generally, have less chance of becoming known in  the highly developed technical countries of the world  than have ideas flowing in the opposite direction.  Now, a mere technical assistance programme could  intensify this state of affairs. You can speed up the  flow of materials and with them the flow of ideas,  down this technological gradient, but you must use  the process wisely, What may happen if it is used  unwisely? First of all, you may tend to get a flat,  level lake of culture throughout the whole world,  and the world would be the poorer for losing the  turbulence and diversity of the various cultures  On the other hand, you could also arrive at the point  when some countries were always givers and other  countries always receivers. You run the risk that  an international organization like this might gradu-  ally become a place where countries that have,  meet countries that have not, and hand them out  some kind of assistance, I know that this is not  what the Executive Board means and I am complete-  ly sure that this is not what the Director-General  means nor, indeed, what any delegation wants. I  know also that everything I am saying now has been  said before, ever since our earliest Conferences.  But I am not quite sure that we have always seen  the practical consequences to our programme that  follow from this set of ideas.
(28) Unesco's function, as I see it, is twofold in  this respect. In the first place, it must help guic-  down the gradient certain sets of ideas, partici.-  larly in science and in education, that will be of  assistance to the people with a lower level of tech-  nical development. The other function - just as  important - is to help to pump up - if I may con-  tinue the analogy - against the force of this gravity,  the ideas, philosophies, arts, religions, whatever  you like, of the countries that are technologically  underdeveloped. That is, the business of Unesco   PLENARY  is to see that there is a circulation of 1deas in the two  directions. It is easy to exaggerate, to pretend that  the only values and philosophies in the world are the  ones that came from the East. It does not follow that  because a country is underdeveloped it has necessa-  rily better ideas than one which is highly developed.  Unesco still has and must go on having the old function  of an exchange of ideas between peoples at the same  levels. But, my point is this - I know of no other  organization in the world, besides Unesco, that can  perform this function of helping to pump ideas up  against the stream of technological and mechanical  products that are flowing down the gradient of which  I speak.
(29) Here I see an important and dynamic function  for the Cultural Activities Department of Unesco  and, in part also, for the Social Science Department.  They again will always have to ensure the inter-  change of ideas between people at the same level, but  above everything, they are concerned with seeing  that the countries which have something to give on  the cultural and the spiritual side are given the op-  portunities for their ideas to flow to other countries.
(30) If you see the whole programme from this point  of view, you get a new and dynamic conception of the  function of these Departments, The Cultural Activi-  ties Department 1s not one that deals with the mere  decorative additions to life: it is, and must be, an  essential part, for example, of the technical assist-  ance programme. It is not compelled to do the same  kind of things that the Science Department and the  Education Department should do, It may have to do  almost the opposite, Or it can continue to do both,  but its functions and its emphasis will be very dif-  ferent from those of the Natural Sciences and Edu-  cation Departments. We have talked a great deal  here of co-ordination within the Secretariat, but co-  ordination within the Secretariat does not mean that  all departments will necessarily have the same kind  of functions. What it means is that the Organization  as a whole, with all its internal variety and complex-  ity, will move towards one predetermined goal, What  that goal will be, none of us who have been connected  with Unesco through the years can have any doubt.  Unesco must be dedicated to the one overriding pur-  pose of helping human beings throughout the world to  live in such conditions, material and spiritual, that  they can understand ore another, can share the rich  diversity of their common cultures and can learn to  live together in peace.  »
(31) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call on the delegate of Israel.
(32) Mr. KUBOVY (Israel) (Translation from the  French): Mr. President, Colleagues: 1 would like  to begin by associating myself with all those who  have expressed their pleasure at finding themselves  in this hospitable country, whose people, last Friday,  gave so moving a demonstration of confidence. My  delegation is doubly grateful to this country for, in  addition to appreciating its hospitality, we cherish  the memory of the unforgettable part played by  Ut uguay during the events leading up to the estab-  lishment of the State of Israel,
(33) I would like next to congratulate the Director-  General on his report presented to this Conference.  - 117 -     MEETINGS 11-8  It 18 a very valuable document, firstly because of  the projects and activities it describes and, sec-  onily, because it gives a very clear picture both  of the trends underlying our work in the past, and  of our present policy. The programme, which is  based on an overall plan and follows a number of  clear-cut lines, constitutes a remarkable survey  and a first-class working document.
(34) We have been pleased to welcome to Israel,  during the past financial year, the Director-General,  Dr. Adiseshiah, then Chief of Technical Assistance  (whose promotion we are pleased to note), and Mrs.  Myrdal, Director of the Department of Social  Sciences, These visits, and the thoroughgoing  discussions to which they gave rise, threw invalu-  able light on our common problems.
(35) To turn now to the work programme before us,  I am pleased to be able to say that the delegation of  Israel - as well as our National Commission - fully  approves the new trends which have been introduced  into our Organization, particularly as regards the  concentration of our activities and the emphasis on  projects undertaken at the national level.
(36) The concentration of activities necessarily  involves reducing the number of projects under-  taken by our Organization, but that is all to the  good. Unesco's field of action is so vast - bounded  only by the limits of the human spirit - that there  is a natural temptation to cover everything, to  fritter away meagre resources on a multitude of  activities, instead of concentrating on the major  problems - raising the cultural level of the broad  masses and creating, through fundamental and  adult education, an atmosphere of universal agree-  ment and co-operation, By sponsoring a few major  projects serving to dramatize its aims and designed  to provide an example and an inspiration for the  world at large, Unesco would do more to fulfil the  high hopes centred in it than by pursuing a multi-  tude of different projects which, valuable though  they unquestionably are, have not succeeded, up  till now, in catching the imagination of the general  public, so that Unesco, for millions of people, has  remained an inc omprehensible, mysterious symbol.
(37) We are also, as we have said, in favour of the  increased importance attributed to natioral activi-  ties in the planning and execution of programmes,  of the system whereby Unesco acts merely as an  auxiliary, stepping in when projects have already  been initiated at the national level. Unesco's job  is to encourage, assist and co-ordinate, but not  to be a substitute for the efforts of Member States.  This is not merely a question of the budget, although  the cuts which have had to be made in certain pro-  jects already under way have demonstrated clearly  that, in view of our meagre resources, every penny  of Unesco's money has to be spent with the utmost  care. The main point is that, in order to achieve  any lasting results in the fields of education, sci-  ence and culture, Unesco must recruit and train  national workers, for the nationals of a country  have a deeper and more vital interest in the work  to be done than that stemming from mere expert  knowledge; they feel that the people to whom they  are dedicating themselves are their own flesh and  blood, and regard it as their mission to raise the  cultural standard of their fellows and so repay the   II-8 PLENARY  debt they owe for the opportunities they themselves  have enjoyed.
(38) This method is applicable to all countries, but  to the underdeveloped ones 1n particular. Unesco's  aim must be to help them to discover and use the  abilities of their own people, and to train a group of  leaders from amongst the natiorals of the sountry.  There is a risk that the work of even the greatest  expert may bear no fruit, or produce only temporary  effects, if, when ke has completed his mission in a  foreign country, he leaves nothing but à report,  albeit a model of lucidity. But a less eminent con-  sultant, who leaves behind him disciples fired with  the desire to increase their knowledge and to carry  on his work, will have done a job of lasting value  both for Unesco and for the country concerned.
(39) Let us beware, however, The growing import-  ance of work at the national level and the ensuing  decentralization must not be co fused with excessive  administrative decentrali~ation. The regional  centres scheme, for instance, has produced remark-  able results in Latin America, owing mainly to the  homogeneity of language; but that is a single iso-  lated case, and, I fear, an exceptional one, We are  pleased to see that Unesco has dropped the idea of  setting up a world network of regional centres, which  threatened to sow not goodwill, but discord.
(40) I cannot tell you how deeply the Israeli delega-  tion regrets having to request, from this platform,  that Unesco should refrain from setting up any  centre or any establishment in regions which, for  political, racial, religious or other reasons, are  inaccessible to the subjects of other Member States,  What is the good of talking solemnly, at our meetings,  of the universality o! Unesco, and the international  community of peoples it constitutes, if this univer-  sality is not even respe-.te 4 v.ithin Unesco itself? It  is not for practic.} r .asons that | am saying this. To  try to eliminate Israel from the Middle East is, we  feel, as futile as to try to eliminate Mount Sinai or  the Mount of Olives from history or geography.  But can one speak, in the reports before us, of the  success of the Sirs-el-Layyan Centre when this  establishment, by the fact of its being virtually  inaccessible to the State of Israel and its Arab  subjects, bears daily witness to the defeat of the  most sacred principles of our Organization?
(41) We are fully aware how difficult it is to trans-  late the Universal Declaration of Human Rights into  practical international laws; but, if there is one or-  ganization where intolerance should be utterly taboo,  and where tolerance and the desire for mutual under-  standing should find a last refuge, that organization  is, surely, Unesco.
(42) Israel is a bold undertaking for, as proclaimed  by the name it has adopted, my country is striving  to realize, in a small patch of territory, all that  Israel has represented in the field of culture and  human aspirations down through the centuries. My  country is a giant laboratory, a melting pot where  peoples belonging to every country and every century  are blended. The problems raised by education and  the need for imparting moral unity to such hetero-  geneous elements have obliged us to create a sort of  national microcosm of Unesco. We know that our  first task is physical survival; but we know tus - it  is an obsession with us - that, unless Israel  - 118 -     MEETINGS  contributes to the spiritual enrichrient of the world,  uniess it hastens the advent of the Kingdom of God  on earth, its resurrection will have been a cruel  disappointmert both for us and for mankind as a  whole. It is in this spirit that we wish to make our  contribution to the progress of Ur..sco, in order  that, in the words of the Prophet the earth may be  filled with the knowledge of God, as the waters  cover the sea.
(43) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):
1 call on the delegate of Colombia.
(44) Mr. BERNAL JIMENEZ (Colombia) (Trans-  lation irom the Spanish): I wish, as Head of the  delegation of Colombia, to take this opportunity,  once again, to male a number of comments on  various subjects general and detailed, affecting the  future of our Organization in varying degrees.
(45) May I be permitted, first of all, to endorse  the comments of those distinguished speakers who  have praised the report presented by the Director-  General, it reflects the profound sense of respun-  sibility and objectivity which have characterized  his administration of Unesco.
(46) Although this United Nations Educational,  Scientific and Cultural Organization has existed  less than a decade, its activities already cover al-  most the entire globe. The original nucleus of  forty-three nations, which signed the Constitution  one November day in 1945, has expanded year by  year so that, at present, we have seventy-two  States assembled under the banner of world solida-  rity and the generous auspices of this noble city of  Montevideo.
(47) This period has sufficed to overcome the first  and most difficult stage of Unesco's work - that of  laying the foundations of vast projects. This work  has been characterized by prudence as well as am-  bition, by a spirit of co-operation and a keen desire  to succeed. Thus Unesco has been able to streng-  then cultural relations between peoples through the  medium of their governments and university orga-  nizations; to encourage scientific research in the  natural and social sciences; to facilitate the ex-  change of persons, books and knowledge, And it  has served as a means of communication between  organizations all over the world which are striving  to attain the lofty ideals of justice, freedom and  peace.
(48) One of the most important tasks of Unesco has,  perhaps, been to encourage the underdeveloped  countries to apply for technical assistance from the  culturally advanced ones. Unesco's technical assis-  tance is, fundamentally, nothing but an organized  form of the acculturation which is essential to  modern progress. Actually, this acculturation  operates spontaneously, without being organized,  as a result of the migration of human groups. This  was what the settled peoples in ancient times ach-  ieved in respect of the nomad invaders; what the  Greeks received from the Aegeans and the Cretans;  what Rome received from the Greeks and what  Europe assimilated through the medium of Roman  thought. In these South American countries, this  process of technical assistance began from the  moment when the Spanish conquerors brought the   PLENARY  yoke and the plough to this territory, and trereby  drove vut the rudimentary methods of aboriginal  farming.
(49) Today new forms of acculturation are needed,  and it can no longer be left to the spontaneous oper-  ation of bygone ages. The evolution of the under-  developed countries needs to be accelerated by their  peoples' receiving education, guidance and advice  from experts sent by societies of broad and recog-  nized ex erience.
(50) Naturally, the chief beneficiaries of Unesco's  cultural work are the underdeveloped countries, in-  cluding most of the countries of this American  hemisphere. In this connexion, one of my comments  on the report before us would be to call the attention  ot ‘his assembly to the need to consider more ade-  quate means of reinforcing the technical assistance  programme, both economically and from the admini-  strative point cf view,
(51) It is particularly heartening to see the attention  the Director-General's report devotes to fundamen-  tal education, In this field, Unesco is already ach-  ieving satisfactory results, with the inauguration of  the first centres of a vast network of fundamental  education centres planned to extend to all countries  having a large proportion of illiterates.
(52) The President of the Republic, in a memorable  speech delivered recently to the National Constituent  Assembly of Colombia, said that the era of man had  arrived; in other words, the time had come to focus  official attention primarily on the education of the  human being, to whose service all the achievements  of technical progress should be subordinated. And  he commented, with great wisdom and common  sense, on the paradoxical and widespread truth that  a peasant who can neither read nor write is quick  to lei.rn how to manage an agricultural tractor and  other mechanized instruments of modern progress.
(53) Many other points of this report on Unesco's  activities might be singled out for mention. Mention  should be made of the important place given to the  social sciences, The Department of Social Sciences  is doing some of the most useful work on sociologi-  cal research, both by co-ordinating the sociological  research done throughout the world in congress and  conferences, and by means of its excellent  publications,
(54) I would like now to refer briefly to two under-  takings which are closely connected with Unesco's  cultural work in Latin America. I meau the Suta-  tenza Educational Radio Project, and the Medellin  Public Library Pilot Project. These projects have  just been visited by the Director-General of Unesco  and the Chairman of the Executive Board, who, in  their reports to those bodies, expressed satisfac-  tion with the results obtained.
(55) The Public Library Piiot Project for South  America was inaugurated on 24 October, United  Nations Day, with a stock of over 10, 000 volumes.  On the same day the foundation stone of the new  building was laid. All these functions bore witness  to the interest of the authorities and the enthusiasm  of the whole population. That the Library Pilot Pro-  ject was able to overcome the difficulties of the ini-  tial stages was due, mainly, to the work of Mr.  Carlos Victor Penna, the Unesco expert, to whom  Colombia owes a debt of profound gratitude. The  - 119 -     MEETINGS Il->  Library is run on the lines laid down by Unesco in  its pamphlet: "The Public Library, a living force
1n popular education". It also has gramophone  record library and film and filmstrip services,  and its educational work is designed to extend co all  sectors of society. But it is essential to s2e that  its mission is fully carried out in the international  environment of Latin America.
(56) The lively interest roused by the new experi-  ment in the education of adult peasants now being  carried out by the Accibn social popular at Sutatenza  is fully justified by the results obtained,
(57) From the strictly pedagogical point of view,  perhaps, the radio school cannot Le regarded as a  substitute for the ordinary primary school, It was  never intended to be. Mechanical equipment cannot  take the place of the teacher, with his personal in-  fluence on the pupils, But in backward countries,  where the peasant communities are separated by  precipitous mountains or vast plains, and where  the State educational system is unable to cover the  whole of the territory, the radio school is invalu-  able as an emergency substitute.
(58) This is being demonstrated in Colombsa ny the  powerful network of fundamental education schools  which, under the inspired direction of Father  Joaquin Salcedo, and with the technical aid of  Unesco, is incorporating many thousands of form-  erly iliiterate peasants and country people into the  cultural life of the people,
(59) At this moment, when I am about to relin-  quish the seat on the Executive Board to which the  General Conference, at Florence, saw fit to elect  me, it gives me particular satisfaction to have had  Colombia selected as the site of the Library Pilot  Project for Latin America and to have secured  Unesco's technical assistance for an educational  undertaking on the scale of the Sutatenza educational  radio project.
(60) I could not conclude my remarks without refer-  ring to a question which was raised by the delegation  of Colombia at the General Conference in Florence  in 1950, repeatedly revived by the United States  delegation and recently brought up again by Profes-  sor Veronese, with great skill and effectiveness,  in the Executive Board. 1 refer to the so-called  concentration of the programme.
(81) During the Unesco General Conference held in  Florence in 195C, I spoke, on behalf of the delega-  tion of Colombia, very clearly and frankly of the  danger Unesco was running of frittering away its  efforts and resources on a multitude of activities  of secondary importance, and so losing in quality  anything it might gain in quantity. 1 remarked, on  that occasion, that Unesco should do its utmost té  avoid that danger and concentrate its attention on e  few basic objectives.
(62) I note today with deep satisfaction that this  policy is taking practical shape in the document on  the revision and remodelling of the programme, as  an outcome of the informal discussions held by the  Executive Board at Gif and Longchamps, and fin-  ally adopted by the Board at its session in Venice.
(63) This policy, which Colombia continues to  support vigorously, does not, of course, involve  abandoning activities which form part of Unesco's  original work; but it does mean avoiding the
11-8 PLENARY  dissipation of resources on obtaining mediocre results  in activities which are only remotely connected with  the specific projects of Unesco, or which overlap  with work already being done by ‘other organizations.
(64) Many other comments occurred to my delega-  tion on reading the report of the Director-General;  but, since I do not wish tn exceed the time-limit  fixed for these speeches, I shall refrain from  stating them,
(65) Nevertheless, I do not wish to conclude without  expressing an opinion which may well, I think, be  shared by the majority of delegates here assembled.  This is, perhaps, the largest gathering of States  ever witnessed by history. In addition to the seventy-  two member nations, whose standards float against  the glorious Uruguayan sky, there are the emissaries  of many associated countries, whose swarthy count-  enances we have seen transfigured by the light of new  hope. Other countries, where the language of free-  dom is not yet spoken, have entered the great com-  munity of Unesco. It is our duty to say to one and  all: Welcome. Welcome because, when a new guest  comes knocking at the door of the mansion built to  serve as the abode of the basic human freedoms, it  is clear that his intention can only be to respect and  enforce respect for the regulations of the house into  which he is received. Both the ends of Unesco and  its means are well known, but they may be summed  up in a single sentence: to achieve peace and friendly  coexistence between peoples through recognition of  human dignity and of fundamental human rights in the  fields of education, science and culture.
(66) Many fears have been expressed of the ability  of certain countries to fulfil, in practice, the pro-  mises they undertake, on entering Unesco, regard-  ing respect for human rights such as freedom of  thought, free movement of persons, books and peri-  odicals, and freedom of conscience, which implies,  essentially, freedom to disagree and to follow the  bent of one's convictions. 1 myself had occasion to  express similar fears. But, at the same time, it  must be assumed tha! a State which pledges its word  through signing an international treaty, such as the  Unesco Constitution, is in honour bound to keep its  promises. The assumption of good faith is the  basis of all agreements between individuals and  nations. It cannot therefore be assumcd, evenas a  hypothesis, that any State which vndertak.:'s, before  an international community, to guarantee human  rights, would wish to maintain any form of sub-  jection within its own boundaries.
(47) Many are the efforts which have been made,  from the time of Grotius to that of Gandhi, to ach-  ieve peaceful coexistence amongst men. Many are  the illustrious names connected with these attempts.  But for my country, and for ail those countries  which were formerly part of Greater Colombia, it  is a source of great satisfaction to be able to name,  as one of the most eminent amongst them, one who  flashed like a glorious comet across the American  firmament. I am speaking of the Liberator, Simén  Bolivar. The conquering genius of Bolivar cher-  ished, as his political ideal, the dream of a com-  munity of free nations ruled by a pact of peaceful  coexistence, This was no Utopia, such as those  conceived by certain Renaissance philosophers;  but a grandiose, practical conception, All the    MEETINGS  peoples of the earth were to assemble in a great  amphictyony where any disputes which might arise  would be settled by amicable means. Bolivar  thought that the first steps towards the realization  of this noble ideal might be to form a union of ali  the American States; but his ideal went further  than that, and his real aim was to create a kind of  ecumenical federation. In his famous Jamaica  Charter, when proposing the International Congress  of Panama, he stated his aim in the following words:  How glorious it would be if the Isthmus of Panama  were to become for the American peoples what  Corinth was for the Greeks, a place where all the  nations assembled to deliberate on the problems of  peace and war.
(68) Thus, the history of the peoples of this Ame-  rica of ours is steeped in this tradition, which  stems from the theories of Bolivar, and is per-  sonified, at a later stage, in the illustrious figure  of President Wilson. For this reason, and because  the American peoples are free of the heavy burden  of surviving traditional inter-State feuds, we hope  that the American continent may one day form the  meeting place of all the peoples of the world.
(69) This august assembly of nations, which I have  the signal honour of addressing this afternoon, is  no more than a stage, a link in the great chain of  efforts to achieve international brotherhood. We  are assembled, this time, under the aegis and the  generous hospitality of a great country whose pur-  suit of freedom was sustained by the will of the  indomitable Artigas. We have been speaking of  the contribution made to peace by many noble  human values. I, for my part, would like to invoke  the memory of one who, after dedicating his life  and his divine gift of eloquence to preaching the  doctrine of goodwill between men, left, as his  testament, this sublime message: Peace be given  unto you, my peace I leave with you.
(70) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Span-  ish): I call on the delegate of China.
(71) Mr. LI YUYING (China) (Translation from  the French): I am very pleased to be here for the  purpose of studying the numerous problems which  arise in the fields of education, science and culture  and the organizations dealing with natural and social  sciences. It is a veritable encyclopedia, comain-  ing a series of stories, so long that - as the Chinese  proverb puts it - we do not know what subject to  talk about. Fortunately we Live the guidance of  the Director-General's report, which is in jtself,  if not a whole encyclopedia, at least the table of  contents or the introduction to an encyclopedia. I  can only congratulate him, and express my admi-  ration for his work, for this report is both a sum-  mary of ana a monument to the work of Unesco.
(72) 1 shall have occasion to revert to this report,  considered as a world encyclopedia. I have only  fifteen minutes in which to speak of so vevied and  such vast subjects - a virtual impossibility. But,  thanks to this simple and clear method of arrange-  ment, we have a sort of picture which, like an  encyclopedia - word by word, fact by fact - imparts  knowledge and enables us to treat every subject  thoroughly.  - 120 -   PLENARY
(73) All my colleagues have greeted the Republic of  Uruguay, and I do the same; but I wish to do more  than that, and my words are not mere politeness or  forma! courtesy. They are sincere, and they are  true: Uruguay, Monfevideo represent a torch of  freedom, on account not of words alone, but of  ceeds.
(74) You are all aware that there is a Sino-Interna-  tional library in the National Library of Montevideo.  This library, like the continent of China, was about  to fall into the hands of the invaders; and its  salvation was due much less to concrete, material  conditions than to a high sense of democratic and  impartial morality. Words fail me to express my  gratitude to the Government and people of Uruguay,  o. Montevideo; the library stands as a symbol of '  f1 eedom and justice in the history of Unesco, of  the whele of mankind.
(75) Another iord about Uruguay. Uruguay, as you  all know, is aiming at a progressive ideal which is  sometimes symbolized by the colour red. There is  in China an adage which says that red (colorado) is a  good colour; this is not true of purple because the  colour purple is not the true red: it is deceptive.  Uruguay is not deceptive: its ideology is the true  ideology of freedom, equality, fraternity and social  justice. In Uruguay education is free at all levels;  everyone is entitled to protection, which implies  social justice, and everyone is eligible for social  ingurance. There is no need for me to dwell on this  point, as you are all familiar with it.
(76) I shall pass on to another term: the term Sino-  International. You will probably ask me, as many  people did in Geneva, what justifies the use of this  term. The word international covers all the coun-  tries of the world; why add the word Sino?
(77) I personally, and we collectively - all of us who  belong to the true liberal China, that is to say - are  certainly not nationalists or partisans of State con-  trol, either Right or Left. It was wrong to call us  the Nationalist Goverrment; the Chinese Govern-  ment itself never called itself by this name, a mis-  translation of National Democratic Party. lam  speaking of China, not as a Chinese, but from a  completely objective point of view. I and my great  friend President Herriot used often to say: We are  citizens of the world. It is from this point of view  that 1 speak of China, of the Chinese language, of  Sinology. Linguistically speaking, Chinese should  have been a working language here, but we have not  requested that it should be as has been done in the  case of Russian, since Chinese is a complicated  language, and its adoption as a working language  would entail expenditure too heavy for Unesco's  budget to meet. Ve prefer to express our ideas  from the point of view both of linguistics and of  Sinology. There can be no universality without the  real centuries-old China, without Chinese culture  and science. The Director-General was formerly  Director of the Library of Congress, which was  interested in Sinology; and an article of mine on the  study of Chinese words was published in Free  World . Some Chinese words, :*pecially those in  the sphere of moral and psycholo;'ical conceptions,  do not exist in the dictionaries 31 other languages.  Any internationalism omitting China is incomplete.  That is why we are stressing this point, not from  - 121 -     MEETINGS 1-8  any spirit of narrow nationalism, but from the ob-  jective and universal point of view. The French  Lycée in Montevideo has a course in Chinese; and  there are 40 Chinese-speaking students who are  assisting with the said library, to be inaugurated  shortly «ith an exhibition.
(78) I return to the report of the Director-General,  which is, I repeat, an encyclopedia, or the table of  contents of a living encyclopedia. The report has  been praised but comments have also been made on  it. It is said that it is a very extensive programme,  perhaps even too extensive. It might be better to  concentrate the work, and set up a few large insti-  tutions, large branch establishments of Unesco.  We do not think the two methods are incompatible.  Scale and depth are the two dimensions - horizontal  and perpendicular. In rny capacity as encyclopedist,  I have already published sorae works o.. this subject.  At the time when I was delegate every year to the  Institute of Intellectual Co-operation, both in  Geneva and in Paris, 1 used to submit a project of  this kind every time. Unfortunately, although the  principle was upheld it was never applied in prac-  tice by the Institute.
(79) I have no desire to diminish the scope of  Unesco's work - on the contrary, I think it must be  extended, but from the encyclopedic point of view.  I do not mean that Unesco should issue the whole  encyclopedia - we have not sufficient funds, and it  is not necessary to have centralized funds in order  to perform this task. With our system, every  country, institution or even individual could pro-  duce a separate, independent volume on a given  subject, which might even be a highly specialized  one. Thus, it is not my intention that the prog-  ramme or the scale of Unesco's work should be  reduced.
(80) I believe that the French delegation has a  research project to submit; and I am convinced  that delegates can do no other than support this  project. We approve this proposal, not only as a  specific proposal but also by way of example.  There are many projects regarding science and  research, by which I mean to say that size and  depth are not incompatible.
(81) The social sciences must not be neglected.  The very structure of Unesco is an example of  applied sociology. It was Auguste Comte who  coined this happy term: sociology. I believe -  and I have already expressed these ideas both  verbally and in writing - that there is room for a  social science which might be called sociotechnics.  Sociotechnics would study both society in general  end special organizations such as Unesco. Unesco  is prospering and progressing - there is no deny-  ing that, But one sometimes senses a certain un-  easiness; I am not pessimistic on this score - it  is only a passing phase.
(82) In the individual there are physiological ail-  ments and pathological ones, In society ailments  or diseases are no longer incurable. It is hoped  that even cancer, though at present not easy to  cure, will in the future be curable. The same  applies to society: there is normal and abnormal  physiology. It is our job to study abnormal physi-  ology also. How are these problems to be solved?  We are suffering from certain diseases, and they   n-8 PLENARY  are not benign diseases, but stem from deep-lying  causes,
(83) I now come to another word, or rather, two  other words, of which we speak every day here. 1  mean the word peace. [No one is against peace,  everyone is for it, an4 has been for it since Confu-  cius, from the phil ;sophers of ancient times to those  of our day. But there are two kinds of peace: normal  peace, which might be called physiological, and  pathological peace. There are times when aggres-  sion is approved in the name of peace. I would like  to quote an example which I noted myself in France.  France, at a certain moment, refused to use the  word collaboration, although collaboration is a very  fine word. Like the word peace. It is not a question  of politics. Many people here say that Unesco is  too political; I do not believe it. Regarded from  the sociological or socio-technical point of view, all  problems are natural, as all diseases are natural  and curable. But these problems must be studied,  it is not enough to have one word only, particularly  in our era, when there is such confusion both mental  and factual. Labels no longer have any meaning.  People at one time used to say that the Left stands  for progress, the Right for reaction; but now this  no longer applies; we do not know which side is the  left and which is the right. We therefore need a  new name and the encyclopedia I have in mind will  orovide the true definition. That 1s why I think it  corresponds to a deep need.
(84) I now come to the last word, the word univer-  sality. It ic like the word peace - everyone is for  it. it is on account of this word that we are here;  no one is against universality, In order to achieve  universality, we have to take accourt of the factors  and phenomena of which I have just spoken: univer-  sality must be genuine, like all words, all facts, all  phenomena. I long passionately - I and all my friends,  not in China alone but throughout the world - for the  advent of true universality; and though I am,  naturally, interested in China, 1 have perhaps  been much more interested, for the past 50 years,  in the question of world co-operatian and of the  World Federation of Inter national Organizations  which was presided over by Mrs, Roosevelt, in  New York, some ten years ago, and which  constitutes the real basis for universality. I long  passionately, I repeat, for the advent of universality,  but on condition that it 1s an instrument not for world  hegemony but for true co-operation, true federation,  true universality, and true peace.
(85) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I cali on the delegate of the Philippines.
(86) Mr. DE LOS SANTOS (Philippines) (Translation  from the Spanish): Mr. President, Mr, Director-  General, delegates: I have the undeserved honour of  greeting, on behalf of the delegation of the Philip-  pines, all the illustrious delegates gathered here to  share with us in the difficult tasks facing this Gen-  eral Conference; and of greeting, also, the people  and the Government of Uruguay, who have welcomed  us all to their beautiful and hospitable country.  Fortunately our two countries - nay more, all the  South American countries and the Philippines - are  bound, though not by concrete, physical ties, by  - 122 -     MEETINGS  the imperishable bonas of religion, culture and a  common desire to improve both our own countries  and all the other countries of the world. The  Filipinos and the South Americans pride ‘hem-  selves on the fact that they have, for historical  reasons, or maybe by the dispensation of provi-  dence, inherited from a common ancestor some  of the same spiritual and moral traditions.
(87) Eight years ago, in Paris, the city of light,  leaders from all over the world, men of all races  and all political and religious beliefs, spurred by  the same desires, beset by the same anxieties,  united by the same desire and fortified by the same  unswerving faith, assembled in that c‘ty at the  First General Conference of this international  organization
(88) Unesco as a whole believes that mankind must  save itself by its own efforts; that it must, in or-  der to do so, protect itself against its own weak-  nesses; that it must cure itself of its cwn afflic-  tions: ignorance, hunger, physical and spiritual  ailments; fanaticism, intolerance, love of Pxces-  sive power, all of which lead to war and the defeat  of the weak at the hands of the strong. :nd by what  means did the visionaries of 1946 hope to achieve  their noble aims? Strange as it may seem, they  put their trust not in material but in moral forces;  not in death-dealing weapons, but in the fruits of  the creative mind; not in hate, but in love; not in  excessive nationalism but in universal understand-  ing. In a word, they laid all their hopes in Man,  man with all his human, moral, dynamic and meri-  torious qualities.
(89) How can this man be produced, how can he be  developed? That, is the great question which we  must answer satisfactorily on pair of seeing man  disappear, or revert to the brutish state in which  he lived before the dawn of civilization. Ours is a  titanic task, a great and noble task. There is no  room for overweening impatience, destructive  criticism or unwarranted despair. We must work  earnestly and with perseverance; and because the  work on which we are engaged is good and great  and noble, it must needs be slow; it will take gen-  erations to complete, since we have to destroy the  roots of evil which have spread wide and deep.
(90) It has rightly been said that there are no  longer several worlds, but only one; and that this  one world bas shrunk so much that all problems  affect us all equally. That is perhaps why the  founders of Unesco adopted the single principle of  human solidarity and universal comprehension. To  know is to understand; to understand is to love.
(91) In the light of this irrefutable truth, I shall  endeavour to tell you briefly of the position of the  Philippines towards the problems with which we  are dealing. 1 shall give a true picture. I shall  not confine myself to describing the successes we  have achieved whilst glossing over our failures and  weaknesses. The picture will be in chiaroscuro,  it will not be overwhelmingly beautiful, but it will  be accurate. For the thinker who said that half-  truths are better than a lie struck the right note.  We cannot solve the problems of the world if we  provide those who are seeking after the truth with  misinformation or information which is only half  complete.   PLENARY  (v2) The Philippines are comparatively small; they  have an area of only 15,000 square miles, inhabited  by some twenty-one million peopl: of different  racial stocks. There are immense natural resources  in its 7, 000 islands and islets, but they are as yet  untapped. As an independent country, it is still very  young. Our independence was granted us by the mag-  nanimous United States of America, as recently as
1946, in loyal fulfilment of a pledge voluntarily  given when it occupied the country at the close of  the Spanish-American war. Our independence came  at a time when we were still suffering acutely {rom  the horrors of the last war, Economically, our  position is worse thar. it was before 1941. But,  despite this ditficult position, the Philippines have  not been backward in participating in all interna-  tional activities aimed at improvinj the conditions  of twentieth-century man. We are members of all  the international or ganizations, and we were among  the rirst to join Unesco.
(93) Our Constitution furnishes definite proof that  we Filipinos renounce war as a national policy,  since we wish to live in peace with all the world.  We have no designs on so much as a square inch of  territory which is not ours; we do not ever wish to  exercise moral or spiritval domination over any  other country, near or far. It is written ‘n our  Constitution, moreover, that all educational centres  must undertake: (i) to train young people in accord-  ance with the lofty principles of humamty; (2) to  inculcate personal discipline; (3) to develop civic  consciousness; (4) to teach the duties incumbent  on the citizens of a democracy; and (%) to train  everyone for an occupation or a profession. The  Constitution also stipulates that primary school edu-  cation shall be free and compulsory for all, and it  guarantees freedom of expression, thought and reli-  gion, and freedom to exercise any profession. Fin-  ally, arts and science are placed ‘inder government  protection. I have tried to sum tp briefly the rea-  sons impelling us to take par: in all Unesco's  activities.
(94) I canno: give impressive statistics of the number  of books we publish, or other details calculated to  produce a good effect. We are beginning to tread the  path of progress, but we are proceeding with reso-  lution and tenacity, overcoming obstacles here and  there. Our oroportion of illiteracy is, nevertheless,  high - approximately 40% of the adult population are  illiterate. As from the present sct.ool year, how-  ever, we have succeeded in admitting every child of  school age to school. The school attendance through-  out the whole of the country is approximately five  millions. We have hundreds of secondary schools,  arts and crafts colleges, agricultural colleges,  domestic science colleges, teacher training and  higher educational colleges, and fourteen universi-  ties. But it is not only numbers we are aiming at;  we are now engaged in {improving the standard of all  our schools. We are also faced with the serious  problem of reducing the number of young people en-  tering the liberal and also the technical professions,  The fact is that we are training more school tea-  chers, engineers, accountants, chemists, dentists,  graduates in commerce than the economic develop-  ment and industrialization of our country, at least  in its initial stages, is able to employ.  - 123 -     MEETINGS I1-8
(95) Since the general economy of the country is  at present at a low ebb, there is a great deal of  poverty and unemployment amongst the masses.  The standard of ‘:ving of the rural population has  not improve . very much over the past thirty years.  We are -..edged to find adequate remedies for these  evils, which are being accentuated by the rapid in-  crease of the population: the total population has  trebled in fifty years. I take this opportunity to  request that there be included, amongst the urgent  probizms with which Unesco has to deal, a study of  demographic conditions in Eastern Asia. Half the  population of the world lives in this area with the  result that food, fundamental education and health  problems there are more acute. With all the good-  will in the world, there is not much we can do for  people who are sick, hungry and who lack the means  for satisfying their most pressing needs.
(96) Another questicn to which the delegation of the  Philippines wishes to draw the attention of the Con-  ference is that of spreading the knowledge of the  use of new scientific discoveries and techniques,  with a view to enabling the whole world, the great-  est possible number of people, to enjoy the benefits  of modern scientific discovery and so live, if not  in happiness, at least in comfort; so that people  may enjoy a higher degree of well-being, without  being beset constantly by the fear that science and  modern technique may one day be used for the dia-  bolical purpose of destroying mankind. As Carlos  Lazo, the designer of the new university city of  Mexico rightly said:  "The world is lacking in co-ordination. Science  introduced order intc life, and the time has now  come for life to put order into science so that the  two may he made compatible, and that we may  prevent life from coming to an end. It is not  order that is lacking, What we lack is the co-  ordination of order, a complete vision of the world  and society, a consciousness of universality, a  sense of planning. We are witnessing the spectacle  of an age when the only technique which is not  flourishing is that of using the accumulated know-  ledge possessed by mankind for the benefit of  society’.  The following declaration, made by James  Roscoe, President of the North Western University  of Illinois, Uiuted States of America, is also very  apposite:  "It is not the atom bomb which is the greatest  power in the world at present. The human mind  which invented the atom bomb is a greater force,  from all points of view, We have no reason to  fear this power, if it operates in an atmosphere  of freedom. We have reason to fear it if it is used  for wrong ends, if we allow the intellect to be  civorced from the conscience; if that happens, all  the achievements of science, the accumulation of  human wealth, the monuments erected by man and  the discoveries of medicine will be worth no more  than a handful of dust",
(97) 1 shall now proceed to stzte briefly the views  of the Philippines delegation on a number of subjects   n-8 PLENARY  directly connected with the questions before us.
(88) Firs'ly: we support the idea already put for-  ward by several delegations - that we must cele-  brate the tenth anniversary of the Organization by  adapting our action to the new political, social and  econom.ic developments of the world.
(99) Secondly: the delegation of the Philippines  considers the Director-General's report on the  Orgunization's activities during 1953 and the first  hal? of 1954 very satisfactory as regards both form  and content and accordingly offers the Director-  General its warm congratulations, We reserve the  ight, none the less, to submit our comments, both  favourable and otherwise, when the opportune mo-  ment arrives.
(100) Thirdly: we support the plan to reinforce the  National Commissions in every way possible. All  Member States agree that the strength of Unesco is  derived from its individual Member States.
(101) Fourthly: our Government and our people  deemed it a great honour to receive the visit of the  Chairman of the Executive Board, the Director-  General and Mr. Secco Ellauri, which gave the  Philippines National Commission and the friends of  Unesco in our country fresh inspiration. Moreover,  Mr. Secco Ellauri's praise of the beauty of your  country was partly responsible for our decision to  send a full delegation to this Conference, for the  second time only since the establishment of Unesco.
(102) Fifthly: we support the proposal that the staff  of Unesco should be free from political pressure,  should enjoy stability of tenure in their posts, and  be given the opportunity for promotion to higher  posts subject to personal integrity, loyalty to the  aims of the Organization, efficiency and devotion to  duty. Without an efficient staff Unesco cannot  achieve its aims.
(103) Finally, the delegation of the Philippines  wishes to thank Unesco for all the assistance it has  given our country since it was first founded. We  have received much more than we have contributed;  but we are determined to do all in our power to in-  crease our assistance.
(104) May I be permitted, by way of conclusion, to  quote one of the stanzas of the Last Farewell, writ-  ten by the Philippine national hero, Dr. José Rizal,  on the night before he was shot:  "On the field of battle, wrestling with delirium,  others are giving their lives, without hesitation or  regret. The spot matters not - cypress, laurel or  lily, scaffold or open field, in battle or cruel mar-  tyrdom, it matters nought, when country and home  command”,
(105) Indeed, the place is of no importance, be it  the open field, the office of the official or the pro-  fessional worker, the research worker's laboratory,  the factory, the teacher's rostrum, the pulpit - no  matter, when the call of tortured humanity resounds.  All alike must contribute in the measure of our re-  sources to the dignity of man and the realization of  the noble aims of Unesco.
(106) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Span-  ish): I call upon the delegate of the Union of Burma.  - 124 -     MEETINGS
(107) Mr. THA HLA (Union of Burma): Mr. Pre-  sident and fellow delegates: 1 would like to join  previous speakers in their spontaneous expression  of gratitude to the Government and people of Uruguay  for inviting the General Conference to this beautiful  city which symbolizes the great and glorious culture  of the Latin American peoples, For the members  of my delegation and myself, this is the first visit  to this great continent, and I would say with honesty  that our information, gathered from books and pre-  vious visitors about the traditional hospitality and  friendly attitude of the Uruguayan people, is not  exaggerated. The moment we landed in Montevideo,  after crossing the Equator for the first time, we  felt we were in the midst of a sincere and friendly  people - despite our unfortunate ignorance of the  language. We are all sincerely grateful for the  hospitality of our charming and considerate hosts,  and we feel privileged to be in this part of the world  which lies far from our own country in space though  certainly not in spirit: in their ways of living, and  in their cultural values and sense of hospitality,  the Asian and Latin American peoples have inuch in  common. It is our ardent hope that Unesco will be  able to promote cultural excha:ges on an ever  greater scale between these two regions and also  between all nations of the world. On behalf of the  Government and the delegation of the Union of  Burma, may I extend our hearty greetings to the  great Republic of Uruguay?
(108) Turning to the report of the Director-General  on the activities of Unesco and the Proposed Pro-  gramme for 1955-56, I shall be brief in my com-  ments at this stage. The Burmese delegation  wishes to congratulate the Director-General on the  very substantial achievements of Unesco during the  last twe years both in the implementation of import-  ant projects and in the planning of future activities.  Unesco has now established itself as an instrument  of international co-operation in the fields of educa-  tion, science and culture, and is therefore capable  of making substantial contributions towards build-  ing up the intellectual and moral solidarity of man-  kind. That intellectual and moral solidarity is,  indeed, the very foundation upon which the entire  structure of the United Nations is built. All that  now remains is for the Member States to show ever  greater faith and zeal in the activities of Unesco,  (and, in this particular, special responsibilities  rest on those Member States which are more fortu-  nately endowed with material resources) and show  what is even more important, enough goodwill and  faith in carrying out this great task of promoting  knowledge and understanding so that the true worth  of man everywhere may be revealed. In the infal-  lible teaching of our omniscient Lord Buddha, the  three flames, lobha, dosa and moha, which in our  sacred Pali language mean greed, anger and infatu-  ation, are the cause of distrust, fear, misunder-  standing and all evil in mankind. When these  flames have been extinguished, we shall all prefer  the building of schools, public libraries and museums  to the gigantic production of armaments for the des-  truction of humanity, its culture and all besides.
(109) The Government of the Union of Burma has  been deeply interested in the ideals and the work of   PLENAKY  Unesco from the time we were honoured by joining  this great Organization. In a letter addressed to  the Director-General, our Minister for National  Planning, Religious Affairs and Union Culture sent  this message: ‘I am taking this opportunity to con-  vey to you through the Burmese delegation the kind-  est greetings of my Ministry and of the Government  of Burma and their best wishes for the success of  the Montevideo Session of the Unesco Conference.  We in Burma are looking to this Conference to come  to the aid of the cultural programme of our people,  Indeed, we feel very strongly that Unesco should  make greater efforts to prove its active interest in  matters cultural as much as it has been doing in  matters scientific and educational”.
(110) We feel that, in the activities planned for  Unesco's future action, cultural activities should be  given a very high priority and certainly much more  generous resources should be allocated for such  activities than are proposed in the programme and  budget for 1955-56. In making this suggestion, 1  do not for one moment ignore the magnitude and the  importance of the immense needs in the fields of  education and science, but when Unesco's total bud-  get is less than the annual expenditure of a single  American university .f medium size, its efforts in  these fields, where the main problem 1s one of re-  sources, will not even touch the fringes of the pro-  blem, It is in this light that I made my humble  remark just now that more goodwill and zeal are  called for from Member States, particularly from  those with ampler material resources than others.  Whatever is being done or planned by Unesco in  education and science is certainly very useful and  our delegation would like to see even greater efforts  made in these directions also. In fact, my delega-  tion has submitted a formal request for aid to the  Director-General to be granted in the form of essen-  tial equipment for geophysical research and a teach-  ing labc catory in the University of Rangoon, There-  fore, it is not our intention to emphasize Unesco's  cultural activities at the expense of its educational  and scientific activities. But we do feel that, ina  proper balancing of the programme of Unesco, cul-  tural activities should be undertaken on a bigger  scale than has been possible so far, We believe  that Unesco will find even better opportunities for  the promotion of international understanding in the  field of culture than in the fields of education and  science. Activities such as the establishment of  national libraries, national museums, the preser-  vation of a cultural heritage, the promotion of arts  and crafts and the dissemination of the highest form  of culture through books, art reproductions, musi-  cal recordings, films, etc., are of the greatest  importance to all countries, especially to those  which are economically less developed and where  traditional cultures are threatened by the onslaughts  of mcdern technology. Technology should certainly  march forward and rapidly in these underdeveloped  countries, but only hand in hand with cultural appre-  ciation. For this reason we welcome the inclusion  of aid to Member States in the field of culture,  which was unfortunately, in our Gpinion, ignored by  the United Nations Programme of Technical Assist-  ance. Assistance in the field of culture is not a one-  way traffic; the expert who brings techniques and  - 125 -     MEETINGS II-8  equipment often carries back the knowledge and  appreciation of another culture, and in this way  such programmes are invaluable for the enhance-  ment of international understanding.
(111) Among the fields of Unesco's action, the  Union of Burma attaches the highest priority to  advice and technical aid for establishing our  National Cultural Centre in the city of Rangoon,  with its offshoots outside the capital and, secondly,  for establishing a teaching and research laboratory  in geophysics in the University of Rangoon. For  us, this project for a Cultural Centre will not only  fulfil the cultural ideals of a single people, but  also contribute substantially towards the success  of the historic and truly international meeting of  the great Sixth Buddhist Synod now in session,  which will last for two years. In the last 2, 500  years there have been only five such Synods. The  first three were held in India, the fourth in Ceylon  and the fifth in Burma. Thus an international  Buddhist Synod or Council has been convened on an  average cnce in every 500 years, A Synod is a  conference of all the leading Buddhist eminences  from all over the world, at which the existing  position of Buddhist philosophy and culture is  assessed, standardized and recorded after the  necessary purification and regularization of texts.
(112) We propose to establish a National Culture  Centre, the nucleus of which will comprise a  National Museum, a National Library, a school of  Fine Arts and Crafts, a National Theatre and a  National Art Gallery. The Union Government has  been able to allocate four hundred thousand dollars,  only a quarter of the total sum requested for the  purpose by the Ministry concerned. The funds  will probably suffice to carry out the main part of  the project, but Unesco's assistance in the form of  experts and equipment would certainly be most wel-  come, The Government's preoccupation with minor  internal troubles and with the still very serious  troubles created by Kuomintang Chinese aggression  in Burmese territory i3 responsible for the drastic  cutting down of the funds requested for cultural  activities.
(113) We feel that Unesco's association with this  national cultural project will give it an international  character. There is no better way of improving  international understanding than for nations to help  each other in carrying out cultural and allied tasks;  in the course of this collaboration they learn to  understand and respect each other.
(114) My delegation notes with satisfaction the  improvement effected by the Director-General in  the organization of the Secretariat. ! should, how-  ever, like to associate myself with the remarks of  the delegetes of Indonesia and India, on the question  of à better geographical distribution of posts both  in the Secretariat and on the Executive Board. We  feel there is room for improvement in this regard.  For instance, the Union of Burma, long a staunch  supporter of Unesco from the South East Asian  region, stili has not had the honour and opportunity  of serving either in the Secretariat or on the Exe-  cutive Board. As for experience, we shall never  have it unless an opportunity is first given us. And  we feel that the requirement of proficiency in both  English and French is quite unnecessarily harsh.   PLENARY  We do not deny the value of proficiency in two  languages, but we are sure that duties can be effi-  ciently discharged in the Secretariat even with a  proficiency in one language only.
(115) I wish, in conclusion, to express the satis-  faction of our delegation :.. the enlarged membership  of Unesco although we a e sorry that the General  Conference has seen fit to postpone application of the  principle of universal membership in the case of  certain States, particularly Rumania, Bulgaria and  the great Republic of Peiping, China. The Chinese  people number today over 600 millions, in other  words, there is one Chinese person to every four  people in the whole world, and I feel that we shall  be missing something if we do not hear the views  and do not receive the co-operation of that great  people. But we hope that the present obstacles to  universality will soon disappear and that we shall  be abie to welcome all, whatever their ways of  thought or living, to this great family of nations in  a spirit of tolerance and goodwill which must con-  quer the intolerance and distrust that corrode the  hearts and minds of man.
(116) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Span-  ish): I call on the delegate of the Ukrainian Soviet  Socialist Republic.
(117) Mr. KOVAL (Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Rep-  ublic) (Translation from the Russian): Mr. Presi-  dent, ladies and gentlemen: Allow me on behalf of  the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic to greet the  delegates to the Eighth Session of the General Con-  ference of Unesco and to wish all of you success in  your work. On behalf of the delegation of the Soviet  Ukraine I wish *o thank the Government of the Reçub-  lic of Uruguay for creating favourable conditions for  the work of our session.
(118) The delegation of the Soviet Ukraine considers  that Unesco can make a definite contribution to the  development and strengthening of cultural ties bet-  ween States and to co-operation between them in  matters of culture, science and education, if ii acts  in strict compliance with the principles which are  laid down in the Constitution of the Organization.  The Soviet Ukraine for its part is ready to support  the activities of Unesco directed toward the develop-  ment in every direction of science, culture and edu-  cation in the interests of strengthening peace and  creating an atmosphere of confidence, friendship  and mutual understanding among the peoples. Our  attention should be constantly concentrated on the  strengthening of peace, all-round development of  economic and culturai ties between peoples on the  basis of confidence and equality, the elimination of  racial discrimina:ion and extending every kind of  assistance to the underdevelopæd countries.
(119) Our delegation will actively support all pro-  posals direcced against the vtilization of the means  of mass information for th« propaganda of war,  which brings in its train endless unhappiness to the  peoples and destruction cf material and cultural  values. We, the Soviet people, recall fhe destruc-  tion which befell our country in the Second World  War. Nearly all the scientific and cultural estab-  lishments in the Soviet Ukraine - institutes, schools,  theatres, museums, hospitals, monuments and  - 126 -     MEETINGS  natural reserves - were ruined, destroyed and  plundered. The total damage amounted to over
285 billion roubles, Many valuable examples of  the sculpture, architecture and painting of the  Ukrainian people were irrevocably lost.
(120) The Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic  joined Unesco after the annual report for 1853 on  the work done in the field of education, science and  culture had already been submitted. I would ask  you, therefore, Mr, President, to permit me  within the time-limit which has been laid down to  give the Conference some facts and data on public  education, science and culture in the Ukraine.
(121) The Ukraine, whose people suffered before  the great October Soclalist Revolution took place  in Russia from social and national oppression,  from economic and cultural backwardness, has  during the period of the Soviet régime become a  country with a highly developed economy and cul-  ture. The grievous heritage of previous years -  illiteracy and a low level of education among the  adult population - has been completely eliminated  in our Republic. All the children everywhere enjoy  universal primary education extending over seven  years and every year sees an increase in the faci-  lities for secondary education with a ten-year  course, which will soon become universal also.
(122) Teaching in the schools is given in the native  language of the pupils; schools where the classes  are taught in Ukrainian constitute 92 per cent of  the total but there are also schools where the  children are taught in the Russian, Moldavian,  Polish and other languages.
(123) The Soviet Ukrainian Government a:nually  assigns large sums of money for public education.  Expenditure on public education and culture in the  current year amounts to about 60 per cent of the  whole budget of the Republic. The steady growth  of State allocations for public education makes it  possible from year to year to increase the con-  struction of school premises, institutes of higher  education and children's homes, to give schcols  much larger supplies of school equipment and lit-  erature, to train and maintain teaching staff, to  provide the pupils with all the necessary textbooks  in their native languages. In 1954 alone 428 new  school buildings were erected and more than 40  million copies of school textbooks were published.  In the seven years since the war ended, 4, 430  school buildings have been restored or erected.  Education in our schools is secular and is organ-
1zed on a scientific basis. Our Soviet system for  the education and upbringing of the young genera-  tion is imbued with lofty humanitarian ideas and  respect for all nations, large and small. The  young boys and girls matriculating from Ukrainian  secondary schools are given the necessary training  to enter any higher educational institution or to  work in industry, farming or culture.
(124) In my country great attention is devoted  to the education of young workers and the  adult population. Thousands of seven-year  and secondary schools have been opened for  such groups inthe towns and countryside,  and there are numerous correspondence  schools. In these schools young workers and  the adult urban and rural population can get   PLENARY  a secondary education free of charge without leaving  their employment.
(125) Young people in the Soviet Ukraine have ample  opportunities of acquiring a university education.  The Ukrainian Soviet Republic devotes special at-  tention to teachers in primary schools, We have a  very extensive network of higher and secondary  institutions where teachers are trained, At the  present time 145,000 students are preparing to be-  come school-teachers, Over 300, 000 teachers are  now working in the schools of the Ukrainian Soviet  Socialist Republic. More than half of our teachers  are women. Women teachers in our country receive  the same salary as men.
(128) Teachers in the Ukrainian Republic are given  two months' vacation a year on full pay. Since the  war the real salary of teachers has more than  doubled. To help teachers in their work special  newspapers, magazines and educational works of  various kinds are published. There are also con-  sultation cabinets and research institutes for peda-  gogy, psychology and the treatment of defects.
(127) Large numbers of intellectuals trained in  higher educational institutions have played a leading  rôle in the economic and cultural development of the  Soviet Ukraine. In the Ukraine there are 137 uni-  versities, polytechnics, pedagogical, agricultural,  architectural, medical or other institutes of higher  education which train all the specialists required by  the national economy. In 1954 alone Ukrainian in-  stitutes of higher education trained over 40, 000  teachers, doctors, engineers, agriculturists, and  other specialists.
(128) All students recording normal progress re-  ceive State scholarships, and graduate students are  offered employment suited to their speciality. Our  Republic has created facilities also for the training  and development of science teachers for the univer-  sities. In addition, the Ukraine has 634 special  secondary schools (technical schools).
(129) Five hundred and eighty-one thousand students  are being trained in higher and special secondary  schools, some of them by correspondence, without  interrupting their employment,
(130) The Ukraine has an Academy of Sciences and  a large network of scientific research institutes, in  which more than 20, 000 scientists are studying pro-  blems of agriculture, technology, medicine, biology,  literature, language, history and art. The results  of the research work done are widely published in  the press. All of them are directed to peaceful  development, to the production of material wealth  for the people, to the alleviation of working condi-  tions, to the use of natural resources for the well-  being of humanity. Thz research v.ork done by  the Academicians E, O, Paton in the field of electric  welding, N.D. Strazhesko in clinical medicine,  V. P. Philatov in cphthalmology, A.A, Bogomolets  in clinical physiology, A.V. Palladin in the bio-  chemistry of the bruin, V.Y. Youriev in grain  selection and by ms ny others is widely known.
(131) The scientists of the Ukraine are always  ready to share the results of their research  with the scientists of other countries and to  take an active part in the work of  international scientific conferences,
(132) We sympatluze with and support the proposal  MEETINGS     - 127 -
11-8  of Unesco for the improvement of relations bet-  ween the scientists of the various countries. In  recent years scientists from Great Britain,  Finland, Norway, Japan and other countries have  visited the Soviet Ukraine «nd have become ac-  quainted with the v .rk of Ukrainian scientists.  Ukrainian scientists have attended scientific con-  gresses abroad.
(133) The Soviet Ukraine is coverad by a dense  network of clubs, libraries, cinemas, museums,  opera houses, theatres and philharmonic societies.  I shall not cite figures but will only say that every-  one in the Soviet Ukraine has full facilities to ob-  tain from a library any book he is interested in, to  see cinema films and go to the theatre. The Uk-  rainians lcve music, singing, and theatre and books.  Our theatres and art groups give performances with  great success in the other Republics of the Soviet  Union and abroad.
(134) The cultural relations of the Ukrainian people  with the peoples of other countries, relations of  friendship and peace, are becoming stronger and  more extensive day by day. These relations take  the form of exchanges of literature, musical works,  and artistic productions. Suffice it to point out that  in the last three to four years alone dozens of dif-  ferent delegations of representatives of culture,  including delegations from Argentina, Great Brit-  ain, France, India, Denmark, Itaiy, Belgium,  Luxembourg and other countries, have visited the  Ukraine.
(135) The delegation of the Soviet Ukraine consi-  ders that Unesco has great possibilities of develop-  ing and strengthening cultural ties between all  countries. We consider that Unesco will be defini-  tely successful if it subordinates all its work to the  interests of peace and the strengthening of world  security. Science and culture must serve mankind,  serve the noble purposes which are laid down in  the Charter of the United Nations and in the Con-  stitution of Unesco. The delegation of the Ukrain-
1an Soviet Socialist Republic hopes that at this  eighth session of the Unesco General Conference  all possible and necessary action will be taken to  consolidate peace and international co-operation,  that no single possibility of easing international  tension and of strengthening friendly relations in  the fields of education, science and culture will be  missed. On this will depend the success of cur  Conference and the real influence of the decisions  adopted here on further progress in the life of the  peup:es.
(136) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Spanish): I call on the representative of the  Union of South Africa.
(137) Mr. POHL (Union of South Africa): Mr.  President and fellow delegates: After listening  yesterday to the moving discourse of the delegate  of Uruguay - a speech, if I may be permitted to  say so, completely in line with the record of this  progressive and friendly country whose hospitality  we are all enjoying so much - there is no more that  I can say about the aims and objects of our Organi-  zation or about its achievements, Nor is there  anything I can add to the remarks of other delegates
11-8 PLENARY  about the praiseworthy work of the Director-General  and the Secretariat, both of the Organization and of  this Conference.
(138) A point however in the address of the delegate  of Uruguay that struck me forcibly was his descrip-  tion of the occurrences which led to what he called  a small crisis in our Organization some while ago.  This crisis had an economic basis and the thought  immediately came to me: is it not our duty so to  regulate our affairs that we can avoid so far as is  humanly possible running into more crises?
(139) Previous South African delegations :0 Unesco  have consistently urged that in the planning of pro-  grammes certain fundamental points be accepted  if the most effective use is to be made of available  resources. These are, very briefly, the need for  budgetary stabilization, for concentration of the  programme and the paramount need for the appli-  cation of a systern of priorities that will ensure that  the Organization's resources are used to the best  advantage.
(140) As regards budgetary stabilization, my Gov-  ernment has observed with regret the introduction  of the concept of a higher budgetary level. To say  the least, we consider this a retrograde step and I  am instructed to make it clear at the outset that the  South African Government is strongly opposed to the  adoption of a budget on this basis. Other Specialized  Agencies, in response to the wiches of a majority of  Member States, have succeeded in introducing an  element of stability into their budgets and it was our  earnest hope that Unesco would follow this line and  stabilize its programme activities now at the 1953-
(141) On the question of priorities, my Government  feels that, althought the principle has been acknow-  ledged, it has not sufficiently been translated into  action. To us it appears that the only priority dis-  tinction in the 1955-56 budget is the differentiation  between a programme item falling under the present  budgetary level and one falling unter the higher  budgetary level. My Government is of the opinion  that programme items which do not give satisfactory  results should be discarded in favour ” those which  do.
(142) It will be recalled that the Economic and Social  Council of the United Nations at its eleventh and thir-  teenth sessions laid down - and recommended Spe-  cialized Agencies to adopt - certain criteria for  priorities. At its fourteenth session the Economic  and Social Council laid down certain programme  priorities for education and science, My Govern-  ment feels that these concepts of priority should  serve as a guide to Unesco when drawing up its  grammes.
(143) In making these few remarks, ] sincerely  trust that my delegation will not be regarded as  wishing to introduce an unnecessarily sombre  note at this early stage of the Conference. On the  contrary, our comments are rnotivated solely by a  sincere desire to further the best interests of the  Organization. Let us do a few necessary things  well rather than attempt too much and lay ourselves  open to the charge of biting off more than we can  chew.
(144) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  - 128 -     MEETINGS  I call on the delegate of the German Federal Re-  public.
(145) Mr. HALLSTEIN (German Federal Repub-  lic): Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. In  addressing this Conference on behalf of the German  Federal Republic, I wish first of all to convey our  sincere gratitude to the country which is extending  to us such generous hospitahty. By holding this  session on the South American continent, Unesco  gives proof of the sincerity with which it follows  its leading principle of universality, The Republic  of Uruguay, a foremost exponent of a common  Latin American culture, can be proud of its ach-  ievements. In these parts of the world, the heri-  tage of Europe is happily blended with ancient  traditions of the native soil. Many nations, and  among them the German people, have benefited  from the fruits of this growing civili.-ation, which,  at all times, has been open to international inter-  course. "We Germans feel gratified by a mutually  productive cultural relationship with Uruguay, as  indeed with the whole of Latin America. Itisa  particular privilege to lend expression to this  feeling before a distinguished gathering such as  the General Conference of Unesco.
(146) The occasion of this biennial Conference  should, on our part, be used for re-stating our  attitude towards the basic conception of Unesco,  for reporting to the Conference the ways in which  we try to meet our obligations at home and, finally,  for setting forth some principles which we hope to  support, during the deliberations of this assembly,  together with many other delegations.
(147) Germany feels privileged to bc a member of  the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cul-  tural Organization. We are deeply attached to its  principle of universality. We understand this  prin-iple not merely in the sense of aiming at a  maximum number of members, We understand it  rather in conjunction with the basic principles of  common action as it is expressed in the first para-  graph of Article I of the Unesco Constitution. The  fundamental aims of Unesco correspond to a basic  need established in every human being by nature  itself. It is the need for the free and productive  development of the human personality, Here is  the common basis which justifies the principle of  universality. In this service to the very humanity  of the human being all nations should feel united  beyond differences.
(148) You will allow me, I am sure, to speak  frankly. At a moment when all responsible people  are aware of tensions, we sincerely hope that this  session of Unesco's General Conference will make  a contribution towards the relaxation of this world-  wide tension, All nations are suffering from it -  the German people in particular, by the loss of its  unity. And therefore this meeting, precisely be-  cause it is devoted to the ultimate goal of cultural  co-operation, kindles our hopes for being reunited  in peace and in liberty.
(148) Today, we Germans look back upon more  than three years of active participation in the work  of Unesco. Many links, both technical and person-  al, have been established between this world or-  ganirzii… 2nd Germany. They were strengthened   PLENARY  in particular by the recent visit of the Director-  General to my country. I should like to express my  heartfelt thanks to him for his visit and for his  presence at the General Meeting of the German  National Commission for Unesco. During these  three years, my fellow citizens have learned to  understand the significance of Unesco. We are con-  vinced that (1) Unesco is destined to be the moral  conscience of the United Nations; (2) by committing  each of us to work in commen with other member  naticrs for the nobler purposes of human civilization,  Unesco has become an institution of international  co-operation unique by its very universality; (3) by  engaging in this endeavour the German branch of  human civilization is given the chance of displaying  all that is best in it and, in turn, of being infinitely  enriched by its contacts with others,
(150) As you know, we are not yet a member of the  United Nations. All the more, we Germans feel  gratified at belonging to Unesco, which is devoted  to the peaceful tasks for which the United Matiors  are to lay the political foundations. For too lorg  mankind has been engaged in promoting the art and  science of war. We conceive of Unesco as the out-  standing instrument of the wor!d community for  developing the art and science of peace.
(151) Thus, we are pledged to active co-operation  in the work of Unesco, and I may now turn to some  organizational problems. We approve the intention  manifested in the new programme to consolidate the  achievements of Unesco by a wise self-restraint.  We have few objections to raise, and nine of them  on grounds of principle. From time to time, as a  matter of course, the programme will be re-exam-  ined in the light of duly appraised experience.
(152) We welcome, therefore, the thorough exam-  ination of certain problems, as it is envisaged in  the programme, especially in regard to educational  activities and to the social sciences. We hold that  the emphasis laid upon the humanities is a most  gratifying development. It will bring a better in-  sight into the particular variety of human culture  which each national civilization represents, and  into the ground common to all of them. We believe  that the foremost need of our work is a sincere res-  pect for the autonomous roots of each culture, for  the particular wisdom inherent in each language,  for the humanity basic to each religion. All of us  have learned that the promotion of international  understanding depends upon such respect for each  other's basic cultural formation. The fact has been  increasingly recognized that he who teaches also  learns. In this spirit, we are resolved to take our  modest share in the proposed studies and meetings  on problems of inter-cultural relations and educa-  tion, in the continued efforts at securing translations,  and in providing reading material for naw literates.
(153) In order that this work may be as effi-  cient as possible, we approve Unesco's decision  more and more to use already existing channels  of international exchange rather than to act  directly. For the same reason the relation  between Unesco and regional international org-  anizations needs to be drawn closer. For ex-  ampl: the co-operation between Unesco and  the Council of Europe holds great promise.  The process of consolidation initiated by the  - 129 -     MEETINGS 11-8  new programme will greatly entance the results of  the Organization's work,
(154) Both for financial reasons and for the sake  of more thorough preparation, we welcome the de-  cision to convene the General Conference biennially.  This makes it even more necessary to strengthen  the work of Unesco within each Member State and  to strengthen likewise co-operation between the  Executive Board, the Secretariat, Member States  and the National Commissions. With the longer  interval between Conferences, increased signifi-  cance is attached to the permanent institutions of  Unesco. Therefore, attention should be given to  the most effective organization of the work of the  Member States during these intervals. In order  to maintain and possibly to increase Unesco's pro-  ductivity, serious consideration should be given:
(1) to the adequate participation of Member nations  in the wo: +f the Secretariat and (2) to the adequate  participation of Member nations in the Commissions  and other bodies set up by Unesco. If these ques-  tions of organization are solved in a spirit of fair-  ness and equity, as well as in accordance with the  needs of the work before us, the impulse toward  active co-operation on the part of all Member States  will gain momentum and, with that, the success of  Unesco activities as a whole will te increased, We  hope that the solution of this problem will already be  reflected in the decisions to be taken by this General  Conference.
(155) I will conclude my remarks with an expres-  sion of corfidence that Unesco will preserve its  character as a universal forum for discussion; that  it will maintain free and intensive exchanges between  all nations and cultures, and that it will succeed in  engaging each of them more and more in the common  task. You will find, we are suirc, that we Germans  shall accompany you along this common road, sin-  cere, co-operative, ready to learn and, above all,  unfalteringly attached to the great aim of Unesco.  I am saying this not only on behalf of the population  of the German Federal Republic, but on behalf of  the whole German people.
(156) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Span-  ish): I call on the delegate oï France.
(157) Mr. BERTHOIN (France) (Translation from  the French): My first duty, or rather, my first  pleasure, is to convey greetings, on behalf of the  Government of the French Republic, to the whole  of this American land, whose very name, the New  World, speaks of the promising discoveries which  the old civilizations are ever eager to find there  and the aspiratiors they have reason to hope will  be realized there. Protessor Carneiro already  spoke in eloquent terms, three years ago, on the  occasion of the 500th anniversary of Christopher  Columbus and Isabella of Castile, of the historical  and contemporary significance of the links between  the Old World and the New.
(158) The history of Unesco, even before its Con-  stitution was laid down, was linked with the West-  ern hemisphere, It was in fect, in 1945, at San  Francisco, the cradle of the United Nations Charter,  that the foundations of the Greek temple which con-  stitutes our symbol were laid. It was in Mexico,
11-8 PLENARY  in 1947, that the Organization first took stock of the  full scale and complexity of its task. And now,  seven years later, during which our Organization  has matured, striving to forge an effective instru-  ment to serve the cause of peace, it is again one of  the republics of Latin America that provides our  meeting place.
(159) I wish to convey particularly warm greetings  and thanks to the people of Uruguay, to whose tradi-  tional hospitality we are indebted for the opportunity  of assembling here.  The French delegation to Unesco considers itself  very fortunate to have been invited - albeit at the  price of a 32 hours! flight - to visit this city of  Montevideo, some 3,000 miles away from Paris in  distance, though, happily, much closer to it in  spirit.
(160) We are no longer at the stage of discovering  Uruguay; and we know a little more about it than  did Juan Diaz de Solis or Magellan. We are now  able to appreciate with our own eyes the beauties of  which we knew, up till now, only by hearsay. And  indeed what we had heard was true. And this plea-  sant abode, with its inodern boldly constructive  town planning, which has yet managed never to mar  the beauty of the natural sites, is symbolic of the  scale and boldness of the progress which you in  your country have always managed to achieve with-  out trampling on your most venerable ancestral  traditions. We know that you Uruguayans are justly  proud of your democratic institutions; that your  social security system, for instance, was intro-  duced a quarter of a century before ours in France;  that children, families and workers enjoy protection  which might well be taken as a model. And I could  continue in the same strain......
(161) You will, I hope, forgive me for not enlarging  further on a subject of vital importance to a State  which is a credit to mankind; and passing on to or.  with which I am more closely acquainted. I want to  speak of the admirable progress made by Uruguay  in the field of public education, As I remarked, it  is a matter for special eulogy, and one directly  relevant to the work on which we are all engaged,  that this country is one of those which has the lowest  percentage of illiteracy and the highest number of  playing fields and sports grounds, doubly useful for  being attached to schools. I need hardly remind you  that higher education is given here in Uruguay ‘ree  of charge, by eminent teachers, some of whom are  world renowned; nor need I describe so daring an  experiment as the evening high school catering  specially for young people working during the day;  and divers other admirable experiments the success  of which nay well make us envious and rather  abashed.
(162) Everything indeed, in this generous country,  bears witness to its deep feeling for humanity.  And if the song of the thousands of children who  came to celebrate the solemen inauguration of this  Conference, under the aegis of the illustrious  Vice-President of the Republic of India, touched  a chord deep down in the hearts of those privi-  leged to be the guests of this country, it was  because they all had the overwhelming feeling of  finding in Uruguay a true spiritual brother,
(163) To proceed to the subject we have to discuss,  MEETINGS     - 180 -
1 shall, 1 feel sure, speak for all the delegations if  I begin by congratulating the authors of the pro-  gramme of work we have before us this year. To  prepare that programme was no. easy; it required  a great effort of clarification and synthesis.
(164) All the questions covered in the programme  are of vital importance; there can be no question  of omitting any. We shall have an opportunity, in  the course of our work, of taking them one by one.  Indeed, the peoples who have placed their reli: nce  on us from the outset would be justified in becom-  ing more and more demanding as their anxiety  increases; and we are in honour bound to heed  their indicaticns.
(165) Let us clear up, without further delay, a  question which, rs all our governments know, is  perhaps the most serious and disturbing of all: the  question of our budget. The budget should, in our  opinion, be so adjusted as to maintain the requisite  balance between two categories of projects - the  one dealing with direct assistance the other with  the maintenance of the continuir -crvices and  international intellectual co-op. ation work - which  act. as it were, like beacons lighting up our path.
(176) That is why the French delegation will give  whole-vearted support to the Director-General's  proposa. that Unesco, in conjunction with the  World Hea'th C-genization, should undertake inter-  national action to promote and co-ordinate funda-  mental research on cancer, the vital importince of  which was stressed yesterday by the eminent spokes-  man of the Swiss delegation.
(167) The French delegation would also view with  favour the establishment of an Institute of Industrial  Techniques in South America, an immense area  full of promise for the future.
(168) On the other hand, the French delegation  would regard the elimination from the Secretariat  of the section on international understanding, and  the absence of any project on teaching about human  rights, as an indication that the Organization was  neglecting one of the tasks considered by most  countries to be one of its essential duties.
(169) These subjects would appear to require fur-  ther examination, and the French delegation will  make its views thereon clear in the various com-  mittees and commissions. If the reasons for these  and other changes are financial, it might perhaps  be possible to reallocate the budgetary credits, or  to concentrate certain administrative expenses  somewhat; or even, if necessary, to allocate  increased funds to certain items. France would  certainly, in view of the importance she attaches  to the retention of certain activities, raise no  objection.
(170) One thing which I can state now - but do I  really need to repeat it? - is that my country has  never ceased to regard money invested in cultural  enterprises as one of the best forms of investment,  and to consider that the highest and safest securities  on the market, in this world where .he passage of  time lays all too much stress on material trends,  are those which, if I may so put it, promise good  returns in the form of culture, that is to say, in  the final analysis, of spiritual profit.
(171) Nor do I intend to shirk speaking  from this rostrum, albeit very briefly,   PLENARY  on the subject of the Organization's staff.
(172) Under your outstanding administration, Mr.  Director-General, and on the basis of the tradition  inherited from your eminent predecessors, the  Organization has, amidst the multiple activities to  which the voluminous reports presented at this Con-  ference bear witness, achieved 2 number of highly  successful results. These are due both to your  personal initiative, to which I have great pleasure  in paying public tribute, and also to the unremitting  efforts of all the officials whose competence and  devotion to the ideal of international co-operation  are known to us ail and, I am confident, fully  appreciated by you. It behoves us to keep our con-  science alert when it comes to dealing with certain  questions which you, as chief int: rnational official  of the Organization, have thought fit to sub.nit to  this Conference.
(173) France, which has the great privilege of being  the seat of the headquarters of the Organization - to  which it has readily granted important concessions,  especially as regards territorial sovereignty - does  not consider that it is thereby entitled to interfere  in the Organization's domestic affairs. But it can-  not remain indifferent to this problem. It cannot  but hope that the General Conference will examine  it calmly, in a spirit of impartiality, and that a  balance will be struck between the powers invested  in the Director-General and the guarantees enjoyed  by the members of the staff. France also hopes,  naturally, that the independence of the officials of  the international organization and of the members of  the Board in regard to their governments will be  maintained. Incidentally, the rights of the members  of the Board would seem in any case to be safe-  guarded, since it is the governments which appoint  delegates to the General Conference, and it is the  Conference itself which decides on the amount and  composition of the budget. But let us view the prob-  lem from a wider angle: is it not celf-evident that  sure and lasting happiness for any people can only be  achieved through the happiness of the world as a  whole; and that, accordingly, a good servant of  Unesco must, ipso facto, also be a good citizen of  his own country?
(174) As regards the programme which we have be-  fore us, and on which the French delegation has  just now indicated its views, it must in any case be  examined as a whole; and the separate parts of it,  different as they may appear to be, must necessarily  reflect a single guiding policy. This underlying unity  must be stressed over and over again, for it deter-  mines the specific nature and to some extent the au-  thentic character of the enterprise to which we are  dedicated, a character which must be maintained at  all costs, even if it means rejecting projects which  in themselves are excellent, but which would in  practice lead to dispersal of effort.
(175) The Organization must make its influence felt  in {ts Member States not merely through its special  projects, its offices and its delegations, but above  all, through its work, its special initiatives and its  support of everything designed to further internation-  al co-operation in the non-political sense of the  term, its rdle always being to rise above individual  and sectarian interests (noble though they may be),  and to seek the human, the universal element.  - 131 -     MEETINGS 1-8
(176) In short, France considers that, while a  certain pragmatism is undoubtedly necessary in  order to continue to bring the benefits of progress  within the reach of the underdeveloped countries,  Unesco's reputation would be enhanced if it demon-  strated courageously that the first duty of so noble  an institution must always be to elevate a civiliza-  tion which is in danger, unless we take heed, of  making efficiency the be-all and end-all.
(177) The French delegation therefore ventures to  suggest that even the initial premises must be re-  examined if we can thereby restore to our hur.am  tarian policy the full significance it sometimes  seems to have lost. The path ¢~ ideal fratern ty  is a long and a thorny one.
(178) Why is it that, despite an =ncouraging glim-  mer on the horizon, the fruits of the first, albeit  restricted, agreement between the Great Powers  on disarmament - so long pursued like a myth -  the world is still fumbling on the road to universal  peace?
(179) It is because all spoken or written protesta-  tions, however sincere, are powerless in the face  of a contradiction which still remains fundamental:  the contradiction between the individual and the  group, between the conception of the Nation or the  State - corresponding to the conception of order  and efficiency - and that of the world, or the human  community - corresponding to an ideal of solidarity  and justice which is irrefutable but which cannot,  obviously, become part of everyday life until man's  needs, which appear egoistic but are in fact merely  vital have been satisfied.
(184) If one thing is certain, it is that all the dele-  gations assembled here firmly intend to reach a  sincere agreement, one dedicated passionately to  the cause of peace. And we are equally sure that  their desire for agreement is a faithful reflection  of the fundamental wishes of our peoples and our  governments.
(181) But it is true too that each of our countries  derives, from its traditions, customs and peculiar  racial characteristics, certain dominant local,  geographical, historical, and even ethnic trends  which, besides being truly symbolic of the diver-  sity of life, are probably necessary in order to  lend civilization a pleasing variety.
(182) Now, our national soul is imprisoned in a  body called the State, making its own demands and  also having its own exalted duties, which are not  invariably compatible, at any rate for the present,  with those we are striving for. That is why ne  societies based merely on considerations of poli-  tical ccexistence can ever, even at the best, be  more than federations of agreements, a far cry  from an empire linked by ties of friendship. If  such an empire ever came into existence, an  empire which might take as its motto the famous  saying of your great Artigas, "I have no enemies  save those who are hostile to the public weal", its  first decree, against which there would be no  appeal, would be to proclaim peace. And none of  the subjects of this empire would ever have to face  problems such as those by which our world is  racked. But we are well aware that this empire,  if ever it comes into being, must be born of some-  thing other than reason: from an impassioned   I-8 PLENARY  appeal for the restoration of the ascendancy of spiri-  tual over material values.
(183) This is not the actual atmosphere in which we  are living in this € -a of machinery and speed, this  atomic, or rather t! is nuclear age whose wizardry  could, on the contra y, be devoted to reviving the  prosperity as well as the virtues of the golden age.
(184) Never has it been more vital for man, unless  he is to plunge into the abyss, to defend all spiritual  values and to promote all means, both of improvirg  understanding in communion with his fellow men of  all countries and of savouring life with greater  pieesure. The more mechanized civilization be-  comes, the deeper rnan penetrates, though without  really understanding them, into what we call the  secrets of pature, the more completely he appears  to tame these forces, which nevertheless remain  dangerously mysterious; the more widely he exploits  them to extend his conquests in the eternal night  through which he is travelling - the more imperative  does it become for man to preserve the things which  in this new age still remain free: the power of  thought and the power of love.
(185) Thus culture alone is capable of defending  everything that makes this life worth living; and  this makes us realize the full grandeur of our  mission, which is to render education ever more  worthy of humanity and give man an ever closer  understanding of the thought of his fellows. This  alone would be a magnificent achievement, and we  must make every effort to fulfil it worthily, enlist-  ing all the successes of material progress for the  protection and salvation of the spirit,
(186) And it may be that, by dint of working for  and passionately desiring this end, we shall, one  day, go a step further, and, passing beyond the  realm of thought, creating the new ethical standards  of which Dr. Schweitzer s;...ke in his remarkable  address in Stockholm a few weeks ago, we shall  attain to the state of heightened awareness which  trancforms everything and engenders, in perfect  love, those great emotional forces which alone are  irresistible. When the time comes, ladies and  gentlemen, politics will no longer matter much,  the domain of man will know no bounds, U:+sco will  reach its supreme aim, and the noble sacrifices  made by all national patriotisms will appear to have  been made for the sole purpose of paving the way  for the utter devotion of the citizen of the world to  his boundless country, his ideal of peace and com-  plete humanity.
(187) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Span-  ish): I call on the representative of the World  Health Organization.
(188) Dr. BUDNIK (World Health Organization): The  Director-General of the World Health Organization  has instructed me to convey to the General Confer-  ence of Unesco his greetings and good wishes.  Unesco and WHO are members of the family of  Specialized Agencies of the United Nations. They  are organizations with closely related objecti ‘es  in raising standards of human welfare, and with  mutual interests in the fields of education and  science. These are fundamental reasons for close  association and co-operation. On behalf of the  - 132 -     MEETINGS  Director-General of WHO it is, therefore, a  pleasure for me to report to you our acknowledge-  ment of the constant and friendly collaboration of  the two organizations, and of the excellent assist-  ance and support we receive from Unesco in so  many fields, The essential contribution Unesco  has to make to the work of WHO in all countries  and in all subjects through extending basic know-  ledge is well recognized,
(189) In the period since your last General Confer-  ence there has been a growing mumber of subjects  in which the two organizations have successfully  co-operated. These have included your prcgramme  of fundamental education and arid zone studies,  conferences on education and scientific publications,  joint work on community development, health edu-  cation, housing, documentation and bibliography.
(190) WHO is pleased to be represented at this  eighth session of the General Conference, to take  note of your deliberations in general and of those  which bear directly on matters o? health and medi-  cal interest.
(191) I have been instructed by my Director-Gen-  eral to call your attention to the communication he  has sent to the Director-General of Unesco asking  for clarification of two points in the document con-  taining the Proposed Programme and Budget for
1955-56 . The details are fully explained in the  document before you. I might, however, for your  information, explain to you the interest of the  World Health Organization in the field of cancer.
(192) The problem of cancer and the possibility of  further organized international action have been  before the World Health Organization regularly.  Account has been taken of the substantial funds in  many countries at the disposal of universities,  foundations, research institutions and individuals.  We know that the scientists concerned are con-  stantly considering all possibilities of extending  and improving study of the whole complex range  of pathological conditions implied in the word  cancer. Guidance in the matter must come from  the experts, whether expressed through their  national or international association with the World  Health Organization,
(193) It has been accepted too that international  programmes ace only needed where appropriate  action is not possible through local institutions or  arrangements. As local resources and effort are  enormous, and are appropriate for meeting most  needs, WHC has not been requested to undertake  many international programmes in this field.  Apart from general health and medical services,  which are as important in cancer as in other con-  ditiuns, WHO has undertaken the requested inter-  national services, covering such fundamental  matters as nomenclature, standardization of defi-  nitions, collection and analysis ot :pidemiological  data, co-operation with the resporsible international  bodies concerned with cancer, ard related subj ucts.
(194) However, with the many newer techniques  available, WHO intends to review the position  even more thoroughly. It will consult the respon-  sible experts ad scientific groups to determine  whether there is any way in which the world medi-  cal and health groups amalgamated in WHO can  fruitfully contribute more to the investigation of   PLENARY  this subject. This too will be a most timely comp-  lementary survey, to be linked with possible ints  national application of the newer techniques coming  from the field of atomic and nuclear physics.
(195) These cons!durations are sufficient confirm-  ation that any work Unesco can laurch in the basic  sciences, studying cell growth and other phenomena  of the cell, will be welcome to medicine. Indeed,  such study is an essential parallel to medical  scientific work on cancer, I am therefore instruc-  ted to say that WHO, so far as resources are pro-  vided, will be willing to accept any responsibilities  which co-operation in such work with Unesco will  impose.
(196) May I again convey to you the good wishes of  WHO to its sister organization.
(197) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Span-  ish): I call on the representative of the United  Kingdom.
(198) Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS (United Kingdom):  Mr. President, fellow delegates: As I joir in this  debate, now drawing to its close, I recall that good  man who married a widow with ten children. With  entirely estimable humility he confessed to a friend  that he felt that there was little left for him to do!  We remaining speakers now feel that there ic little  left for us to say. My first word, however, is a  simple one. It is that all the members of the United  Kingdom delegation are glad to escape from their  northern winter into the summer sunshine of  Uruguay and to find that this sunshine has its  counterpart in the warmth of heart of their hosts.
(199) This is the first time that a Unesco Confer-  ence has met in South America. Among the Latin  American republics, what better choice could have  been made than Montevideo, the capital of Uruguay?  My country has always taken a special interest in  this liberal State, having had the honour to play  some small part in its foundation, The ideals prac-  tised here are the 1deals of Unesco, too, and so the  hospitality of the Government of Uruguay is parti-  cularly welcome. May I on behalf of the British  delegation express our pleasure at being in this  country, so happily free from political persecution,  tyranny and oppression and now so melodiously  active in the excitements of an election campaign.  We are watching this with great interest. If we  cannot readily grasp all the issues at stake, we are  gratified to see that, in contrast to the fate of the  people of some countries, everybody here can say  what he thinks, or sing what he likes if he feels that  to be a more satisfying way of expressing himself.
(200) Today is the sixteenth day of November. On
16 November, nine years ago, Unesco's Constitution  was approved in London. Today we number 72 Mem-  ber States and 4 Associate Members. The mere  numbers are sufficiently impressive, but far more  significant are the hosts of individual men and  women who will now be brought into active co-opera-  tion with Unesco through the action of the Government  of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in signing  the Constitution of Unesco. The United Kingdom  delegation, and Her Majesty's Government in the  United Kingdom which it represents, share the satis-  faction I am sure we here all feel at the entry into  - 133 -     MEETINGS 1-8  Unesco of the USSR, We recall their co-operation  with the London Conference of Allied Ministers of  Education, whose work led to the foundation of  this Organization, We remember how at our first  conference in Paris we all hoped to see a dele-  gation from Moscow, and how disappointed we  were that they did not come. Much has happened  in the nine years that have since elapsed; fear  and suspicion again cloud the minds of men. The  preamble of the Constitution of Unesco contains  words which, when they were drafted, were  thought likely soon to become out of date as  cbsolete reminders of a state of affairs that had  passed away. Unfortunately we have by no means  seen an end to the denial of the principles of the  dignity, equality and mutual respect of men.  Ignorance of each other's ways and lives and the  prejudice which that ignorance breeds have con-  tinued to create suspicion and mistrust between  the peoples of the world, My delegation therefore  warmly welcomes the presence here of delegations  from the USSR, Byelorussia and the Ukraine, and  also those from Czechoslovakia, Hungary and  Poland, We have noted with profound satisfaction,  especially in the comprehensive soeech delivered  by the leader of the USSR delegation, “hat his  country has decided to accept with sincerity the  fundamental principles on which Unesco is founded.  If he and his colleagues have come here with a  desire to co-operate with us in the work of this  Organization, then bright vistas open before us.  Perhaps we shall at last be able to see an end of  recrimination, to bridge the gap which divides the  Communist from the non-Communist world and  gradually bring about that intellectual and moral  solidarity of mankind of which Unesco's Constitu-  tion speaks. Printed and spoken words however  are not enough. It is easy to write and talk about  principles in general terms, but it is right to ask  for deeds as well, What kind of deeds do we want  to see? Virtue and truth are the monopoly of no  group or people. We want to see a readiness on  the part of all of us to give as well as to take, we  want to see the free exchange of ideas of knowledge  recognized as a two-way traffic, including the  adrnittance to and circulation within all Member  States, of information and ideas which governments  may not like, and of knowledge which may be poli-  tically inconvenient. We want to see the free  movement of peoples and "ot merely the approved  transport of officials, experts and delegates. Nor  do we want a rigid political approach to the prob-  lems which confront us. To push rigid principles  remorselessly in the affairs of international insti-  tutions is to produce frustration and instability.  Let us rather work for practical expediency, based  upon increasing mutual understanding and respect.  We do not want a political approach to the problems  which confront Unesco, and so we should like to see,  not merely at this Conference but in the years to  come, the abandonment of any tendency to approach  our affairs in terms of political blacks and whites,  rights and wrongs. We want a spirit of real toler-  ance, for, without it, education becomes indoctri-  nation, science becomes bigotry, and culture  degenerates into thought control. Let us then start  our work together in the belief that we are making
11-8  small beginnings from which great things will grow.  Suggestions as to what might be done can be found  on almost every page of Unesco's draft programme.  I! we eschew the general and abstract and concen-  trate upon the modest, the practical and the con-  crete, we shall find ourselves building on better  foundations than we know.
(201) Saturday, 13 November 1954 will be a proud  day in the annals of the British Commonwealth, for  we then witnessed the entry into Unesco, in their  own right and with impressive dignity, of two large  territories and two large groups of territories  forming part of the British Commonw 2alth of  Nations, as Associate Members. There have always  been representatives frcm these territories on  United Kingdom delegations, but they will now, as  Associate Members, make their own independent  contribution. We are confident that they will effect-  ively enrich our proceedings. They have already  thanked you, but the United Kingdom delegation, on  behalf of the people of Great Britain and of all other  British overseas territories, would also like to do  so.
(202) Our colleagues who have att2nded other  General Conferences will be aware of the constant  preoccupation of the Government 1 represent with  the cause of economy. It is forced upon us by the  heavy financial burdens our own people are bearing  at the present time. We represent a country in  which thrift is still regarded as a virtue and unjusti-  fiable expenditure as an evil. In the last ten years  my country has contributed nearly 8 million dollars  to this Organization, and very much more to the  United Nations and other Specialized Agencies. At  the same time we are making available for econo-  mic and social development within our Common-  wealth over 350 million dollars each year. These  contributions are being made at a time when expend-  iture upon the defence of all those values for which  Unesco stands absorbs about one-eighth of the total  resources of the United Kingdom, and when our  country is only just emerging from a long period of  austerity, during which there was little to spare for  the considerable social and industrial development  that was necessary within the United Kingdom  itself. We are deeply concerned at the steady rise  in the budgets of the international governmental  agencies, to all of which we contribute. In our  opinion, it does not necessarily follow that, because  new Member States join us, we must expand our  programme. The concentrated programme for  which so many delegations ; iead should remain con-  centrated, whether there are 50 or 100 Member  States. Ir these circumstances, the United Kingdom  stands firmly for the adoption of the present level  budget which the Director-General has presented.  So strongly do ww believe this that at a suitable  opportunity we shall propose a resolution to that  effect. Subject to this, my delegation believes that  Unesco is developing on the right lines, and *hat the  remodelled programme gives promise that such a’  development will continue.
(203) The Director-General has shown a sincere  and sensitive appreciation of thé needs of our Mem-  ber States in this draft programme. Let me pay a  special tribute to Dr. Luther Evans. First of all  we are very greatly in his debt for undertaking the  PLENART     - 134 -  MEETINGS  heavy burdens of this most difficult office. They  were more than Dr. Torres Bodet could bear, as  he himself told us. His loss two years ago was a  serious blow, but we remember him with res-  pect and with gratitude. We hope that with his  health restored he will, in his present high posi-  tion, continue to follow and help the fortunes of  Unesco. High courage was needed to follow in his  footsteps. Dr. Luther Evans possesses that cour-  age and we should like him to know that he has our  confidence, We must have a strong and resolute  Director-General. He must also know that we are  strong and resolute in his support.
(204) Of course we have our duties also. May!  briefly rectate them as I see them ? We need  loyal and active Member States, effective National  Commissions and enterprising international non-  governmental organizations, aiding Unesco volun-  tarily with their own resources. We also want the  record of Unesco to be more widely known; its  achievements in fundamental cducation and cam-  paigns for literacy and free and compulsory edu-  cation, its work for the arid zones, the progress  of the social sciences and their international appli-  cations, library development throughout the world,  the dissemination of reproductions of the world's  masterpieces in art, copyright conventions, the  reduction of barriers to the movement of books  and films, coupon schemes and facilities for the  exchange of persons, We need to see growing  amongst people an awareness of their responsibility  to co-operate in these tasks; tasks to which they  have been dedicated through their governments.  There are no international interests and duties  that are not national interests and duties and are  not ultimately private interests and duties, and we  cannot lose sight of the needs and aspirations of  the millions of human beings on whose collective  behalf we meet here in Uruguay.
(205) I believe that there is a character in an Ice-  landic saga named Hord. It was his attribute that  he saw things clearly and without glamour. Let  our discussions too be of a practical nature, in  which we shall concentrate upon securing a man-  ageable programme related to urgent and neces-  sary tasks.
(206) 1 think I have said enough to show that the  economy for which my country stands is not a  rigid and inelastic economy, rather is it that of a  prudent and eminently practical economy. This  view is one which we know that we share with other  Member States.
(207) In the successful conduct of public affairs,  in the exercise of the arts of the possible, there  must always be a combination of three factors:  there must be idealism, there must be realism,  and the two must be married in an effective and  practicable policy. Let us keep our hearts warm,  but let us keep our eyes clear, let us keep our feet  firm and steady on a broad highway. Bertrand  Russell, that doyen of British philosophers, in his  latest book concluded with words which I would like  to quote to you on this occasion:  "1 see before me a shining vision: a world  where none are hungry, where few are ill, where  work is pleasant and not excessive; where kindly   PLENAR  feeling is common and where men released from  fear create delight for eye and ear and heart.  Beyond all reason, I am unconquerably persuaded  that this will come, "'  Y MEETINOS 11-9  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, let us bend  our energies to the task of hastening its coming.  The meeting rose at 7. 20 p. m.  NINTH PLENARY MEETING
17 November 1954 at 10.30 a.m,  President: Mr. ZAVALA MUNIZ (Uruguay)  CONTENTS  Addition of two items to the Conference Agenda .  Discussion of the Director-General's
135  Report  (continued): Speeches by the delegates of Costa  Rica, Cuba, Iraq, Czechoslovakia, Turkey,  Laos, Mexico, Cambodia, Viet-Nam, and the  representatives of the United Nations and of the  Organization of American States  ADDITION GF TWO ITEMS TO [HE CONFERENCE AGENDA
(1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):
1 have ‘o announce that Yugoslavia and Israel have  submitted requests, similar to that put forward by  the Government of Iran under item 9. 4. 7 of the  agenda, for the writing off of a sum owed to the  Organization, being a loss incurred by the National  Commission acting as a distributing agency for  Unesco coupons.
(2) The General Committee proposes that two new  items be added to the agenda:
9.4.7.1: Request from the National Commission  of the Federal People's Republic of Yugoslavia for  the writing off of the sum of $1,666.67, being a  loss incurred by the Commission acting as a dis-  tributing agency for Unesco coupons.
9.4.7.2: Request from the delegation of Israel  for the writing off of the sum of $5,714. 30, being  a loss incurred by the Israeli National Commission  acting as a distributing agency for Unesco coupons.
(3) In accordance with Rule 14, paragraph 2, of  the Rules of Procedure, new items of the agenda,  proposed to the Conference by the General Commit-  tee, must be approved hy a two-thirds majority of  the members present and voting. If there is no  objection, I shall take the vote on the two requests  together, as both are concerned with the same  question and will be dealt with in the same  resolution,
(4) The result of the voting is: 26 in favour, 2  against and 2 abstentions. The requests made by    - 135 -  the delegations of Yugoslavia and Israel are there-  fore to be added to the agenda.
(5) I have to announce that, this morning, on the  proposal of the delegate of Colombia, Mr. Bernal  Jimenez, the General Committee unanimously  decided to invite the famous poetess, Juana de  Ibarbuurou, to attend a meeting of this Conference,  as a tribute both to her genius and to the Republic  of Uruguay. The General Committee will be res-  ponsible for making the necessary arrangements.  DISCUSSION OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL'S REPORT  (continued)
(6) As the list of speakers is still so long, 1  should like to ask delegates wishing to speak to  confine themselves strictly to the prescribed time -  limit. I call upon the delegate of Costa Rica.
(7) Mr. GAMEZ SOLANO (Costa Rica) (Trans-  lation from the Spanish): Mr. President, ladies  and gentlemen, the Government of Costa Rica,  through its delegation to this eighth session,  wishes to convey its greetings to the General  Conference of Unesco.
(8) In 1949, as a member of the Jinta Fundadora  of the Second Republic, the present President of  the Republic, Mr. José Figueres, signed the  decree whereby Costa Rica became a member of  this Organization. He therefore wished to send  me, the present Minister of Education, to rep-  resent him at this session of the Conference, for