ADMINISTRATIVE  criteria of interpretation, proposed in paragraph 27  of the document, for judging aptitude for international  civil service,
(104) In connexion with paragraph 4. 6, Mr, Henquet  stressed the dangers of including in the Staff Regula-  tions a text strictly applying the principle of  geographical distribution. The International Civil  Service Advisory Board had recognized the necessity  of a certain elasticity in the {implementation of that  principle, and neither the staff regulations of the  United Nations nor those of the other Specialized  Agencies contained any hard-and-fast rule in that  matter. The Staff Association was very anxious for  the administration not to invoke that principle when  renewing contracts, but only when recruiting new staff
(105) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL, answering the  question raised by the delegate of Lebanon, said that  the only person who could dccide what exactly pro-  gramme requirements involved, as far as staff  contracts were concerned, was the Director-General.  It stood to reason that the Director-General would  always keep programme requirements, in the general  sense, in mind, but the phrase "in the light of pro-  gramme requirements" was open to no wholly  satisfacrory interpretation, and he therefore  recommended its deletion.
(106) The delegate of the United States of America  had said that the proposal he ha” made in paragraph
19 ran counter to his proposal for a new paragraph
4,6. In that paragraph, he was proposing that con-  tracts expiring on or before 31 December 1956 should  not be renewed, in cases when their renewal would  militate against improved geographical distribution of  staff, The authority given him to take such action  would expire at the end of 1956, Even if tha proposed    COMMISSION v-18  new paragraph 4,6 were adopted, he would still award  many indeterminate contracts, so that in the next two  years steady progress would be made towards the  target figures set forth in paragraph 19.
(107) During the years 1955-56, but especially in
1956, he would recruit from the under -represented  areas, und persons appointed early in 1956 would have  two years of service before the General Conference  met in 1958, by which time the percentage of per-  manent posts would have approached even more closely  the figure proposed in paragraph 19.
(108) He had submitted his proposals because he  believed that better geographical distribution was  necessary for Unesco, and that such geographical dis-  tribution could not be achieved without changes in the  Staff Regulations. There could be no decisive  improvement in that respect with the number of  vacancies now occurring. Some of those vacancies,  in addition, were of so responsible and specialized a  nature, that a few countries only were likely to be able  to provide suitable candidates,
4.2.1, the reasons were set forth in document
8C/ADM/14,
(110) He wished to make it clear that he desired to  obtain the services of staff ~f the highest standards of  competence and integrity, and also to improve geo-  graphical distribution. If the new paragraph 4.6  were adopted, it was his intention, after 1956, to lay  less stress on geographical distribution when con-  sidering how posts should be filled. But adoption of  that paragraph was essential if a proper balance was  to be obtained at the outset.  The meeting rose at 1 p.m.  EIGHTEENTH MEETING
29 November 1954 at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman : Mr. BEEBï (New Zealand)  ITEM 9.5.1 OF REVISED AGENDA: PERSONNEL  RECRUITMENT STANDARDS AND METHODS  (document 8C/ADM/11) (continued)
(1) The Commission renewed its examination of  proposed amendments to Staff Regulations 4.2 to 4.6.
(2) Mr. ATTAGARA (Thailand) moved the adoption  of the proposed amendment to Regulation 4. 2.
(3) Mr. SHARIF (Pakistan) suggested that Regulation
4.2 be linked to Regulation 4. 3.1 by adding the  following words at the end of Regulation 4. 2:  "Due regard shall be paid to recruiting staff on as  wide a geographical basis as possible".    The amendment would thus bring Regulation 4. 2 into  line with the corresponding regulation of the United  Nations,
(4) Mr. SOLDATOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-  lics) stated that, in his delegation's opinion, the  principle of geographical representation should  override all others.
(5) Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS (United Kingdom) agreed  with the Soviet delegate that geographical distribution  was an extremely important consideration, but the  United Kingdom delegation felt that it should not take  precedence over the aim of securing the highest stan-  dards of efficiency, competence and integrity. He  - 601 -   v-18 ADMINISTRATIVE  therefore proposed the addition of the following sen-  tence at the end of Regulation 4.2: “and shall pay due  regard to the desirability of achieving as wide a  geographical distribution of staff as possible",
(6) The above amendment would presuppose the with-  drawal of the existing Regulation 4, 3.1 and the pro-  pcsed new Regulation 4.6. Tle United Kingdom  delegation consiiered that two years were too short a  time in which to achieve a geographical redistribution  of the Secretariat; to aim at that might lead to in-  Justices; the delegation was therefore against tying  the Director-General down, either in time or in the  matter of percentage.
(7) Mr. SUNDARAM (India), drawing attention to the  chart in Annex I to document 8C/ADM/11, which  showed the distribution by nationality of members of  the Secretariat, pointed out that vast underdeveloped  areas of the world were under-represented on the  Secretariat, while a number of small and advanced  countries were over-represented. It was true that  underdeveloped countries could not afford to release  their key people for .ervice in international oganiza-  tions, but, even if less efficient people were recruited  in the interests of geographical representation, with  experience they would gradually attain the highest  standards of efficiency and competence. In promotion  and renewal of appointments, as well as in initial re-  cruitment, geographical distribution should be the  main consideration, provided that efficiency were not  sacrificed, The Indian delegation therefore moved  the addition of a sentence to Regulation 4. 2, which  would read roughly as follows: "In the matter of  promotion and renewal of appointments, other quali-  fications being equal, geographical considerations  should be kept very much in view".
(8) Mr. HUZAYIN (Egypt) paid tribute to the Director  General and his staff for having tried to present a  practical scheme to the Conference, with a view to  redressing the bad balance of geographical distribu-  tion within the Secretariat. Geographical distribution  was not a political, but a cultural issue; even cul-  tures which did not seem as developed as others had  something to contribute to Unesco. Further, ata  time when Unesco was launching a programme of  practical projects designed to meet the felt needs of  Member States, it was important that the countries .  with the greatest needs should be represented on the  Secretariat.
(9) With regard to the United Kingdom amendment,  the Egyptian delegation felt that the wording needed  strengthening and would prefer to substitute for "and  shall pay due regard to the desirability of achieving.."  the words: "and shall also aim at achieving...".  Although he agreed that the amendment made Regula-  tion 4.3.1 unnecessary, he thought that Regulation
4.5, which related to a temporary measurz, should  be kept.
(10) Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS (United Kingdom)  agreed to withdraw his proposal to delete  Regulation 4.6.
(11) The CHAIRMAN, seconded by Mr. AMMOUN  (Lebanon), proposed that the Commission adjourn for  a few minutes to enable the delegations of Pakistan,    COMMISSION  the United Kingdom, India and Egypt to reach agree-  ment on a joint amendment to Regulation 4. 2,
(12) Mr. VILLALON GALDAMES (Chile) thought it  might help the discussion if the original text of the  proposed amendments to the Staff Regulations were  carefully examined. The various sections of that  text were perfectly interrelated, and they all dealt  with the problems then under discussion, The princi-  ple of geographical distribution was taken into account  in Regulations 4.3.1 and 4.6 (in the latter, in respect  of the renewal of contracts), Those two regulations  were complementary to the general stipulations con-  tained in Regulation 4.2, with regard to the other  criteria for the appointment, transfer or promotion of  staff.
(13) A study of that text might simplify the discussion  and prevent the submission of somewhat improvised  amendments, aimed at settling points already dealt  with in the text itself.
(14) Mr. KELLY (Australia) was not convinced that  the recruitment of staff on as w.de a geographical  basis as possible" would achieve the desired result,  unless it were made clear that the connexion between  a national and his country should not merely be a  legal one. A Frenchman, for example, might be  born in France, but live all his life in Patagonia. The  Director-General should also ensure that staff  recruited were truly representative of their countries.  If a new formula could be substituted for "geographical  basis", the Australian delegation would be satisfied.
(15) The DIRFCTOR-GENERAL did not think that the  Secretariat was competent to decide whether or not an  individual was representative of his country, but he  pointed out that, before any candidate was appointed,  his government was asked to comment on him. The  Director-General assumed that no government would  recommend a candidate who had spent most of his life  in another country.
(16) Mr. TREJOS DITTEL (Costa ica) supported the  proposals made by the United Kingdom and Egyptian  delegates. He said that the Secretariat had made  considerable e.forts to apply the principle of fair  geographical representation, but there was still room  for improvement, Central America had never been  represented on the Secretariat and, although it con-  sisted of small countries, that geographical zone  possessed people who were sufficiently qualified to  work as officials of Unesco.
(17) A Unesco official was a publicity agent for the  Organization in his own country. That was a good  reason why geographical distribution should be  improved along general lines that would render it  more effective,
(18) Mr. RIANO JAUMA (Cuba) agreed that the  Director-General should be empowered to secure a  fair geographical distribution, in regard both to the  recruitment of staff and to the renewal of contracts.
(19) He pointed out that in the statistics published in  document 8C/ADM/11, Cuba was shown, in 1952, with  a representative on the Secretariat, who had later  disappeared without any reason being given, The  nationality of officials on the Secretariat should be  - 602 -   ADMINISTRATIVE  defined more clearly, in order that they should not  appear as the nationals of a country to which they  were attributed but to which they did rot actually  belong.
(20) Mr. RAADI (Iran) reminded the Commission  that the discussion bore on a text submitted by the  Director-General, to which several amendments had  been proposed, The authors of those amendments  were about to try to work out a joint text, and it  would therefore be useful to know whether the spirit  of the amendments was in keeping with the Director-  Generalis wishes, or nearly so, If those amendments  were approved by the Commission, would the  Director-General be able to carry out his wishes?
(21) Although the United Kingdom - Egyptian amend-  ment did not quite correspond to what he had in mind  the DIRECTOR-GENERAL would be prepared to agree  to it, if it were acceptable to the majority of members  of the Commission,
(22) Mr. VILLALON GALDAMES (Chile), on a point  of order, thought it would be useful to adjourn the  meeting in order to allow the authors of the amend-  ments to come to an agreement over the wording of  their ext,
(23) The point of order involved a question of pro-  cedure, namely, that, whatover the text agreed upon  it should not include anything on the geographical  distribution of the staff until Staïf Regulations 4.3.1  and 4. 6 had been dealt with.
(24) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that Regulation 4.6  was not yet at issue, as the delegate of the United  Kingdom, at the request of the delegate of Egypt, had  withdrawn his proposal to delete it, The only Regu-  lations at issue, therefore, were 4.2 and 4.3.1 and  the motion to combine the substance of 4.3.1 and 4.2  was perfectly in order,  {25) Mr. FRAGA IRIBARNE (Spain) took the view  that the Chilean delegate was invoking Article 85 of  the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference; in  other words, that he had called for a Separate vote  on the terms of the draft resolution under discussion.  The Spanish delegate joined the delegate of Chile in  making that request.
(26) The CHAIRMAN remarked that the point of order  raised by the delegate of Spain was not the same as  that of the delegate of Chile. He would therefore  first take account of the latter.
(27) Mr, BAUGNIET (Belgium) said that his wishes  were similar to those of the Chilean delegate. He  hoped it might be possible to vote on the proposed  amendment in separate parts. If the text submitted  by the Director-General, to which several amend-  ments had been proposed, were eccepted, there would  have to be a provision covering the acquired rights of  staff members whose contracts were due to be  renewed,
(28) The CHAIRMAN asked members of the Com-  mission to take the point raised by the delegate of  Belgium into consideration, since it seemed likely    COMNMIBSION v-18  that they would be asked to vote on the two parts  separately.
(29) The meeting adjourned for ten minutes to enable  the delegations of Pakistan, the United Kingdom, India  and Egypt to prepare a joint amendment,
(30) The meeting having reassembled, the following  joint amendment to Regulation 4.2 was submitted for  consideration:  "In appointing, transferring or promoting sta!f  members, and in renewing appointments, the  Director-General shall aim at securing as wide a  geograplical distribution as possible and the highest  standards of efficiency, competence and integrity".  {31) Mr. von GRAEVENITZ (German Federal  Republic) considered that, in matters of staff recruit  ment, Unesco must establish a balance between two  criteria: that of the highest standard of efficit.icy,  which could be best assured by continuity of service,  and that of a fair geographical distribution of p-sts  between the Member States, Clearly, continuity  could only come into play when the programme was  concentrated round a small number of long-term  projects. In the view of the German delegation,  those two criteria were of equal importance; neither  should be regarded as prevailing over the other. The  speaker noted with regret that the resolutions of the  seventh session of the Conference had accorded  priority to the first of those criteria - that of  continuity - by placing too great an emphasis on  indeterminate appointments; the second requirement  had accordingly been only partially met. However,  no blame attached to the Director-General in that  connexion; he had, on the contrary, done all he  could in the circumstances. Paragraph 23 of
8C/ADM/11 ran: "The present geographical distri-  bution of the Secretariat is not satisfactory and  special action by the General Conference is necessary  if the Director-General is to be able to improve it  quickly and satisfactorily”. Assuming that there  were general agreement on that statement, it was  necessary to redress the errors which had brought  about such a situation, but it was not by reversing  the relationship between the two criteria - i.e. by  giving priority to geographical distribution - that the  situation could be put right or the necessary compro-  mise achieved. The mistake had been to lay too  much stress on the idea of continuity at a time when  the programme had reflected a certain discontinuity.  Now that Unesco was assuming greater long-term  obligations, it would be inadvisable to allow too much  fluctuation in the staff. That reason carried all the  more weight since Unesco was faced with an additional  task - for which the Conference had repeatedly pres-  sed - that of evaluating certain of the programme  projects undertaken by Unesco in the light of critical  and detailed observations, The sooner past errors  could be rectified on the basis of such an evaluation,  «he better it would be for Unesco's reputation.
(32) In conclusion, the speake * aid that the fore-  going ideas were reflected in thc proposedamendment  which accordingly had his approval.
(33) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) agreed with the dele-  gate of the German Federal Republic, but would like  - 603 ~   v-18 ADMINISTRATIVE  an explanation on one point. Was the expression  "geographical distribution" to be interpreted in terms  of territories and frontiers or - as it should be - in  terms of joint efforts in the realm of science, educa-  tion and culture, on the basis of which the  Director-General should make his choice?
(34) Mr. GOMEZ ROBLEDO (Mexico) asked whether,  if the amendment were approved, Regulations 4.3 and
4.6 would still stand. He agreed with the United  Kingdom proposal, because he understood it to imply  the deletion of Regulation 4.6, but it now appeared  from the discussion that that Regulation would be  maintained, The powers of the Director-General  were thereby considerably increased, and the not  altogether fair criterion of geographical distribution  was introduced as an important factor in the recruit-  ment of Unesco officials. The amendment would be  logical if Regulation 4.6 were deleted. If that  Regulation were maintained, there was no point in  the amendment.
(35) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL observed that, even  if the amendment to Regulation 4. 2 were passed, it  would still be essential to maintain Regulation 4.3  (selection without distinction of race, sex or religion)  which was not covered by 4.2, He had understood  that Regulation 4.6 was to be discussed separately.
(36) Mr. BROWNELL (United States of America)  sympathized with any misgivings which the Director-  General might have at the idea of operating under the  joint amendment proposed to 4.2. In interpreting  the amendment, there would certainly be many  pressures as to whether geographical distribution or  the highest standards of efficiency, competence and  integrity should have priority. To make the Director  General's task casier, therefore, he proposed the  deletion of the word "and" and the substitution of the  words: “without sacrifice to". The sentence would  thus read: "... as wide a geographical distribution  as possible, without sacrifice to the highest  standards..."
(37) At the DIRECTOR -GENERAL's suggestion, Mr.  BROWNELL (United States of America) agreed to  accept the more usual form of wording: "without  prejudice to”,
(38) Mr. HUZAYIN (Egypt) thought that both consi-  derations should be given equal weight and would  therefore prefer the word "and" to be maintained,
(39) The CHAIRMAN drew attention to paragraph 4  of Article V1 of the Constitution, where it was laid  down that the highest standards of integrity,  efficiency and technical competence should be given  paramount consideration,
(40) Mr. JUVIGNY (France) much regretted that the  suggestions of the United States delegate had not been  accepted, subject to drafting changes, at least in the  French version. The text of the amendment submit-  ted jointly by a number of delegates read: "In appoint-  ing, transferring or promoting staff members......  the Director-General shall aim at securing as wide  a geographical distribution as possible and the highest    COMMISSION  standards of efficiency, competence and integrity",
(41) He pointed out that, whereas in the text of the  Staff Regulations of the United Nations, as in the text  proposed by the Director-General, emphasis was laid  in the first place on professional qualifications, ef-  ficiency and integrity - the need for recruitment ona  wide geographical basis being stipulated in the second  place only - the new text reversed this order, and  required the Director-General, in recruiting the staff  of the Organization, to give first thought to geographi-  cal distribution in the light of high policy considera-  tions based on quantitative values, assigning a  secondary place to competence and integrity. The  speaker thought that the texi had perhaps gone beyond  the intentions of its authors, Whilst agreeing with the  principle, he therefore recommended, with a view to  dispelling that unfortunate impression, that a form of  words similar to that proposed by the United States  delegate should be used.
(42) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) said that, after  listening carefully to the remarks made by the United  States and French delegates, he was of the opinion  that to adopt the joint amendment would be to violate  one of the fundamental provisions of the Constitution.  Paragraph 4 of Article VI, the terms of which he  recalled, would have to be modified by the Conference  before that amendment could be accepted. All that  the Commission could do was to propose the insertion  in the Staff Regulations of a sentence which would be  a mere repetition of what was stipulated in the  Constitution.
(43) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that he personally  would interpret the joint amendment to mean that the  highest standards of efficiency, competence and  integrity should take precedence over geographical  distribution, but, if the Commission wished to make  the position clearer for some other Director-General  it should adopt the amendment proposed by the United  States delegate. He drew attention to the fact that,  in Regulation 4. 2, the appointment of staff was more  important than transfers or promotions,
(44) Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS (United Kingdom)  regretted to say that, when he had consulted with the  delegations of Pakistan, India and Egypt, he had not  been aware of Article VI, paragraph 4 of the Consti-  tution. In order not to be inconsistent with that  provision, he felt obliged to ask his colleagues if they  would accept the United States amendment.
(45) Mr. SUNDARAM (Ind!a) thought that acceptance  ot tue United States amendment would be equivalent  to reverting to the status quc. whereas, in his dele-  gation's view, slightly more importance should  thenceforth be attached to geographical distribution  than to the other considerations.
(46) Mr. HUZAYIN (Egypt) thought that the joint  amendment was complementary, but not contradictory  to th2 Constitution,
(47) Mr. RAADI (Iran) thought that the discussion  might have taken an uneasy turn because there was a  tendency to contrast the notion of efficiency with that  of geographical representation. But the two notions  - 604 -   ADMINISTRATIVE  should not in fact be set against one another. If an  official was to work competently and effectively, he  must have a clear idea of the conditions obtaining in  different parts of the world and understand the  factors that enabled Unesco to have a real influence  in the world; in the minds of the authors of the  Constitution, competence and geographical distribution  had been parallel ideas.
(48) With regard to Article VI, paragraph 4, of the  Constitution to the effect that "subject to" a combina-  tion of the highest standards of integrity, efficiency  and competence, staff should be recruited on as wide  a geographical basis as possible, that sentence could  also be taken to mean that the widest possible geo-  graphical basis was at once an essential and desirable  condition, subject to, etc, The speaker thought  that those were purely legal considerations which  could be left out of account; in his view, the proposed  compromise amendment might provide a basis for  immediate agreement, and to depart from it was to  run the risk of reopening the question of the priority  of the aforesaid two notions, which would lead to  interminable discussions.
(48) At the proposal of Mr. SHARIF (Pakistan) 1t  was agreed that the Commission should again adjourn  for a few minutes to enable the sponsors of the draft  amendment either to reamend it or to withdraw it in  favour of the Director -General's original proposal.
(50) The meeting having reassembled, Mr. HUZAYIN  (Egypt) anncunced that he and his colleagues had  decided to withdraw their amendment.
(51) The CHAIRMAN observed that the Commission  should therefore vote on the original motion of the  delegate of Thailand to adopt the amendment to  Regulation 4. 2 proposed by the Director-General.
(52) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) said he would abstain  from voting on Regulation 4, 2 since, unless a reser-  vation on the acquired rights of staff were included,  it was unacceptable to him.
(53) The amendment to Regulation 4. 2 proposed by  the Director-General ii. document 8C/ADM/11 was  put to the vote and adopted by 26 votes to A, with 14  abstentions.
(54) The CHAIRMAN drew the Commission's  attention to section 15 on page 7 of document
8C/ADM/14 (Regulation 4, 2.1).
(55) Mr. SOLDATOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) recalled that his delegation had already  had an opportunity to state its point of view, namely,  that Regulation 4, 2. 1 should be maintained. He  therefore moved acceptance of the Executive Board's  opinio. that the regulation should not be deleted.
(56) Mr. JUVIGNY (France) reminded the Commis-  sion that the Executive Board's opinions on Regula-  tion 4.2.1 were set ouf in 8C/ADM/14, referred to  in the document at present under discussion
(8C/ADM/11); =nart from the delegations of the  USSR and Ecuador, no delegation had given its views  on that matter, and Mr. Juvigny preferredtoreserve    COMMISSION v-18  comment on Regulation 4. 2.1 until 8C{ADM/14, which  contained the justifications, was discussed.
(57) The CHAIRMAN asked if the Commission wished  to consider Regulation 4. 2.1 forthwith, or at a later  stage in connexion with document 8C/ADM/ 14.
(58) Mr. SOLDATOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) stated that his delegation attached a great  deal of importance to Regulation 4.2.1 and that its  retention or deletion would determine the Soviet  delegution's attitude towards a series of other ques-  tions. He did not think that it would be correct  procedure to jump from one document to another, and  therefore proposed that the Commission decide at  once whether or not to delete Regulation 4.2.1,  examining the question in document 8C/ADM/14 at a  later stage.
(59) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) regretted he could  not share that view, As regarded the order of dis-  cussion, texts should be exainined according to the  documents prepared by the Director-General. Regu-  lation 4.2.1 should be considered when document
8C/ADM/14 came before the Commission.
(60) The Soviet motion to discuss Regulation 4.2.1  forthwith was put to the vote and rejected by 22 votes  to 6, with 19 abstentions.
(61) It was thus agreed to discuss Regulation 4.2.1  at a later stage in connexion with document 8C/ADM1 4.
(62) The Commission agreed to maintain Regulation
4.3 and passed on to Regulation 4.3.1.
(63) In order to meet the intention of the ma, or  portion of the original United Kingdom amendment,  the DIRECTOR-GENERAL proposed the following  wording:  "Without prejudice to the terms of Regulation 4.2,  the Director-General shall strive to secure a staff  distributed on as wide a geographical basis as  possible",
(64) Such an amendment would make Regulation 4.6  unnecessary.
(65) The Director-General's proposal was seconded  by several delegations.
(66) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) faiied to see how that  draft amendment, as he understood it, differed from  the text proposed; he would be glad to know where the  distinction lay.
(67) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained that the  difference was that Regulation 4.3.1 limited the  question to recruitment, whereas his amendment also  covered transfers, promotion and renewal of  appointments.
(68) Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) said that the wording  now proposed: "The Director-General shall strive  to recruit his staff on as wide a geographical  basis as possible", enabled the Director-General  to express his views on the substance of the problem.  - 605 -   V-18 ADMINISTRATIVE
(69) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out that the  correct wording was: "Le Directeur général  s'efforcera d'obtenir un personnel....".
(70) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) acknowledged that it  was difficult to evolve a sound French text at the  meeting itself. He suggested the following: "Le  Directeur général s'efforcera d'assurer que le per-  sonnel représente une distribution géographique  aussi large que possible", but that would need  polishing.
(71) Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) replied that the sub-  stance of his remarks would not be affected by the  difficulty of finding a suitable way of expressing a  notion that was quite clear. The wording "shall  strive to secure" in effect expressed a wish, whereas  the present text was an imperative which would be  weakened by the change proposed. He only pressed  that point because he thought that the heart of the  matter had not yet been touched.
(72) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL agreed to strengthen  his amendment by altering it to read: "shall ensure  a staff distributed on as wide a geographical basis as  possible",
(73) Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) agreed that that text  vas clearer, but thought that it brought the debate  back to its starting-point and still left the substance  of the problem untouched, since all the difference lay  in the form used. Mr. Ammoun was aware of the  Director -General's difficulties, who, in order to take  into account the two aspects of the problem (indeter-  minate contracts and equitable geographical repre-  sentation), had to reconcile two often contrac.ctory  conditions, The whole point was that he must be  empowered not to renew indeterminate appointments  The staff representative had referred to tribunal  decisions based on jurisprudence, and he would like  to have details of that; had there been any legal  decisions on that particular point, th2 non-renewal  of contracts? The point should be studied very  ciosely. Perusal of the General Conference resolu-  tions showed that the Conference had never recom-  mended that a text be modified, but only that methods  be changed, for the better implementation of prin-  ciples already incorporated in the Constitution and  the Staff Regulations. After hours of discussion a  text Lad emerged which stated: "The Director -  General shall strive". Mr. Ammoun urged that a  serious study of that question be placed before the  Commission. In conclusion, he-assured the  Director-General that he fully sympathized with him  in his perfectly justifiable attempts to redress a  situation which left him with his hands tied.
(74) Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS (United Kingdom)  asked if the Director-General would accept the  substitution of "constituted" for "distributed" on as  wide a geographical basis as possible.
(75) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL thought it a greut  improvement.
(76) Mr. BERNAL JIMENEZ (Colombia) agreed, in  general, with the Lebanese delegate. Regulation 4.6    COMMISSION  as originally drafted in the proposal, was more ex-  pressive than the amendment which purported to  strengthen it. The phrase: "in order to achieve  more equitable geographical distribution within the  Secretariat" should be maintained. The aim was to  rectify a lack of equity, Paragraph 4 of Article VI  of the Constitution was clear, but there had beena  discrepancy between constitutional principle and  actual practice. That was no new state of affairs  but one which had recurred since the foundation of  Unesco.
(77) If the amendment were accepted, the above-  quoted phrase of Regulation 4.6 in the proposed  amendments to Staff Regulations should be maintained,
(78) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL, who said that he  had merely been trying to help the Commission to  reach agreement, would not insist on his amendment,
(79) In reply to a question from Mr. KELLY  (Australia) concerning the interpretation of the word  "selection", the DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that he  would interpret it to mean recruitment only in  Regulation 4.3.1. In 4.3.2, it might mean recruit-  ment only. In 4.3, he would take it to apply also to  transfers, promotions, renewal of appointments, and  all other personnel matters.
(80) Mr. JUVIGNY (France) seconded the remarks of  the Lebanese delegate, which he himself had touched  on in two of his own statements, He hoped the  Secretariat would take thern into account and study  the points raised by the Lebanese delegate from a  legal point of view,
(81) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) stated that to his  knowledge there was no legal provision for the case  of non-renewal of contract for the purpose of assuring  better geographical distribution, although the Admims  trative Tribunal of the United Nations and the Unesco  Appeals Board had had to give decisions in cases of  non-renewal of contracts. Those authorities had  decided that staff members were entitled to a reason-  able expectation of renewal and they had held them-  selves to be competent to pronounce upon the reasons  for which a contract had not been renewed, The  Legal Adviser personally considered that the oight  not to renew contracts on expiration was strictly a  prerogative of the Director-General, who had full  discretion in the matter; but in view of the prece-  dents established by the appeals authorities in that  connexion, and of the fact that those precedents  might be applied to non-renewal in the interests of  better geographical distribution, the Director-  General had wished for a clear and precise decision  on the matter.
(82) Mr. TUNCEL (Turkey) saw no obstacle in the  way of adopting Regulation 4.3.1, which was merely  the logical sequel to Regulation 4. 2 as it had been  amended on the proposal of the Director-General,  Regulation 4.3.1, which had been rather vague in its  original form, had become more precise as a result  of the amendments proposed by the United Kingdom  delegate and the Director-General. He accordingly  supported those amendments,  - 806 -   ADMINISTRATIVE
(83) Mr. SHARIF (Pakistan) wondered if the amend-  ment proposed by the Director-General would give  him the same powers as under Regulation 4.6. If  Regulation 4.3.1 were approved, he would later  propose an amendment to Regulation 4.6.
(84) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) presumed that what  the delegate of Pakistan wished to know was whether  the amendme at to Regulation 4,3.1 proposed by the  Director-General would give the latter the same  rights as those deriving from the proposed amend-  ment to Regulation 4.6. He explained that, since  the idea of selection was to be replaced by a more  general wording, to the effect that "The Director-  General shall secure as wide a geographical distri-  bution as possible", it was perfectly clear that that  covered appointments proper, as well as renewal or  non-renewal of contracts, However, there was a  difference of degree in the force of the two articles,  Regulation 4. 6 as proposed being by far the more  categorical; also, non-renewal was explicitly  mentioned in Regulation 4,6 but was only implicit in  Regulation 4.3.1.
(85) In reply to a question from the CHAIRMAN, Mr.  SHARIF (Pakistan) said that he had received an  answer to his question from the Legal Adviser. There  was a difference in degree, but the Director-General  did have the same power under both Regulations to  ensure geographical distribution when it came to  renewing appointments, If necessary, he would  later move an amendment to Regulation 4.6.
(86) On a point of order, Miss LAISE (United States  of America) drew attention to the fact that Unesco's  own Staff Rules and Regulations clearly specified that  there was no presumption of the renewal of a con-  tract when it expired, and that the United Nations  Regulations and jurisprudence were not relevant.
(87) Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) asked whether the  Director-General thought the proposed wording would  suffice to eliminate any difficulty of interpretation in  cases of non-renewal of contracts, and whether he  thought it would cover the case of all Unesco staff  members. If so, the speaker was prepared to vote  for the proposed text without further discussion.
(88) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL believed that, as  the machinery for appeal existed, the text proposed  would provide the maximum protection both for  Unesco and for its staff members.
(88) Mr. JUVIGNY (France) observed that, if he  understood aright the Legal Adviser's explanation,  the proposed text would leave the Administrative  Tribunals with practically no control, since the  equitable geographical distribution clause would in  fact give the Director-General arbitrary powers - a  situation which seemed to him somewhat difficult to  accept. Account must be taken of the legal decisions  taken by Administrative Tribunals, from which  common principles had emerged. The proposed  wording, by giving the Director-General full power,  might cover a number of other reasons (the officials  conduct, etc.) and, in extreme cases, the geogra-  phical reason might well be used to conceal others.  - 807 -     COMMISSION V-18
(90) The speaker gave a second reason, of a practical  nature. Supposing that there were, in one department  of the Secretariat, four or five officials with the same  grade and the same nationality, the Director-General  would be obliged to choose which of them should be  sacrificed in the interests of better geographical  distribution - and that choice ought not to be purely  arbitrary. It would therefore be necessary to adopt  objective criteria, such as the standard of service  rendered by those officials; the Appeals Board, and  later the Administrative Tribunal, would thus be  enabled to apply a material test (comparison of reports  on the officials in question), Mr, Juvigny thought  such jurisdictional controls would still be necessary,  even if the proposed new text were adopted, as they  were an essential safeguard for staff members.
(91) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL understood as well  as any member of the Commission that the gift of  power placed a heavy responsibility on a Director-  General and inescapably provided the possibility of  the abuse of power. That was why he had told the  General Conference in a plenary meeting that he  would always be ready to give a reason when he  refused to renew a contract, although he was not  obliged to give such reason. That gave the tribunal  an opportunity to evaluate his reason and provided  staff members with maximum protection against the  exercise of arbitrary power. He had, for example,  given a reason for his recent refusal to renew four  contracts.
(92) The CHAIRMAN called for a vote on the amend-  ment to Regulation 4.3.1, as proposed by the  Director-General:  "Without prejudice to the terms of Regulation 4.2,  the Director-General shall ensure a staff constituted  on as wide a geographical basis as possible”.
(93) The amendment was adopted by 42 votes to 0,  with 5 abstentions,
(94) Mr. MARTINEZ COBO (Ecuador) asked for an  explanation regarding Regulation 4.3.2. He wished  to know whether the statement that staff should be  selected "on a competitive basis" meant that the  selection was to be made by a comparison of their  merits or by examination, The situation would vary  according to the method used.
(95) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL replied that either  method could be employed, the main point being to  ensure that the best person secured the position,
(96) It was agreed to maintain Regulation 4. 3. 2 and  the Commission passed to Regulation 4. 4.
(97) It was agreed to maintain Regulation 4.4 and the  Commission passed to Regulation 4.5.
(98) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained that, since  the document had been prepared, he had asked the  Conference for permission to suppress the post of  Deputy Director-General and to appoint two Assistant  Directors-General, If the Conference agreed to his  proposal, the text of Regulation 4,5 would have to be  amended accordingly,   v-19 ADMINISTRATIVE
(98) Subject to the Director-General's reservation,  the proposed new text of Regulation 4.5 was approved
(100) The adoption of the proposed amendment to  Regulation 4.5,1 was moved and seconded by several  delegations.
(101) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) pointed out that the  present wording of Regulation 4.5.1 as given in  document 8C/ADM/11 was not in accordance with the  French text adopted by the General Conference and  given on page 122 of the Resolutions (French) of the
1952 session of the Conference, which provided for  the renewal of certain contracts "pour des périodes  déterminées d'un an au moins et de cing ans au plus}  the text given in document 8C/ADM/11 read "not less  than one year up to a maximum period of service of  five years”. There was an appreciable difference  between the two, as the text adopted by the Confer-  ence in 1952 allowed of several five-year contracts  in succession, whereas the text submitted to the  Commission might be interpreted as meaning that all  higher officials would have to go after five years'  service if they had not been granted indeterminate  contracts,    COMMISSION
(102) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained that the  original text, adopted by the Conference in 1952, had  been written in English; the error was merely ore of  French translation. He was certain that the text in  document 8C/ADM/11 was correct and reflected the  intention of the Conference at its 1952 session,
(103) Mr.JUVIGNY(France)asked that note should be  takenof the abstentionof the French delegation; he asked  whether the text meant that the Director-General could  not renew a contract that implied the retention of an  official in his post for more than five years.
(104) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained that, taking
1 January 1952 as a starting-point, a person in con-  tinuous service could not serve the Organization  beyond 1 January 1957 without having an inieterminate  contract; on all successive dates after 1 January 1952  the same principle would apply.
(105) The amendment to Regulation 4.5.1 proposed  by the Director-General was adopted by 43 votes to 0,  with 3 abstentions.  The meeting rose at 7.10 p.m.  NINETEENTH MEETING
30 November 1954 at 10 a.m.  Chairman : Mr. BEEBY (New Zealand)  ITEM 9.5.1 OF REVISED AGENDA: PERSONNEL  RECRUITHENT STANDARDS AND METHODS  (document 8C/ADM/11) (continued)
(1) The Commission turned to the examination of  paragraphs 19 and 24,
(2) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that it was highly  desirable for the General Conference to give him  definite guidance as regarded the proportion of fixed-  term and indeterminate appointments within Unesco.
(3) The principles set forth in paragraph 19 had been  endorsed two years befoi € by the Administrative  Committee on Co-ordination,
(4) Some time would necessarily elapse before the  percentages indicated in that paragraph were achieved  That was why he had proposed that the date by which  those figures should be attained should be 1958. He  would, of course, report on progress made to the  ninth session.
(5) All he was doing in that paragraph was to ask the  Conference to set target percentages and a target  date by which they should be attained, leaving him  free to decide, with the best interests of the  Organization in mind, how to set about attaining them
(6) The adoption of the principle set forthin paragraph
24 would considerably strengthen his hand in dealing  with applications for employment.
(7) Mr. BROWNELL (United States of America)  sympathized with the Director-General. In any or-  ganization it was difficult to decide what the propor-  tion of fixed-term and indeterminate appointments  should be. But he was not sure that the Commission  would be assisting the Director-General by adopting  a resolution on the lines suggested. To lay down  fixed percentages for such posts might not be in the  best interests of Unesco.
(8) Accordingly he would propose the following  motion:  "The Commission recommends that the General  Conference authorize the Director-General to con-  tinue his efforts to build up a permanent cadre of  Unesco officials in the interests of continuity and  stability, and request him to report to the next  session on the progress made”,
(9) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL, answering a question  by Mr, HUZAYIN (Egypt), said that about 40% of  staff in the Professional categories were at that  moment in possession of permanent contracts,  - 608 -