Vi-31 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  document 8C/BUD/4, and proposed adjournment.
(17) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) agreed, but  wanted to know what principles had guided the  Director-General in making his proposals.
(18) Some projects had been adopted by the  Programme Commission by very small margins,  That was a point to which the Director-General  might have given attention in considering where to  make cuts.
(19) There seemed to be some inconsistency in the  treatment of subventions. Why were some sub-  ventions reduced while others were not mentioned  at al}?
(20) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that he had  tried to decide on the reductions to be made in    VI-37  subventions in the light of three factors: the views  expressed by the delegations in the Commissions,  his own views, and the opinions of the Heads of  Departments as to the cuts which would cause least  damage to the Unesco programme as a whole,
(21) Some savings had been effected by simply  postponing the date on which it was intended that  action should start. Thus, in connexion with  paragraph 222, it was proposed that money should  be saved by delaying the recruitment of staff for  several months.
(22) It was agreed to adjourn and to contine the  discussion at the next meeting.  The meeting rose at 6.30 p.m.  THIRTY-SEVENTH MEETING
7 December 1954 at 10 a.m.  Chauman : Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Australia)  RESUME OF BUDGETARY EFFECTS OF DECISIONS TAKEN BY  THE PROGRAMME AND BUDGET COMMISSION AND THE ADM}  NISTRATIVE COMMISSION AND PROPOSED REDUCTIONS  WITHIN THE BUDGET FOR 1953-56 TO BALANCE THE BUDGE  (document 8C/BUD/4) (continued)  SECOND PART : PROPOSED REDUCTIONS  PART I~ GENERAL POLICY  CHAPTER 1} — EXECUTIVE ROARD  Paragraph 17: Reduction of $102
(1) Approved,  PART Il — PROGRAMME OPERATIONS AND SERVICES  CHAPTER 1 — EDUCATION  Paragraph 51 - Subvention to World Confederation  of Organizations of the Teaching Profession
(2) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) asked whether  during the discussions in the Programme and Budget  Commission any proposals had been made for  increasing other subventions in the Department of  Education.
(3) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  replied in the negative.
(4) Mr. LEE (United States of America) considered  - 859 -     that, on the whole, document 8C/BUD/4 represented  an excellent piece of work on the part of the  Secretariat in adjusting the programme to meet the  views of the Conference and the various contingencies  which had arisen. In the present case, however, he  formally opposed the recommendation of the  Secretariat on paragraph 51. The World Confeder-  ation of Organizations of the Teaching Profession  was doing valuable work and to reduce its subvention,  without adequate explanation, at a time when  subventions were being granted to new organizations,  was contrary to the criteria which had been laid  down. The Programme and Budget Commission  had justly proposed restoring the subvention to its  level in previous years and he urged that that  recommendation should be adopted.
(5) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the Committee,  if it decided against any of the Direcior-General's  proposals, would have to indicate other items where  the reduction could be made. Any proposals for  maintaining budgetary provisions under one project  must therefore be accompanied by suggestions for  deletion elsewhere.
(6) Mr. LEE (United States of America) proposed  that the $4, 000 required under paragraph 51 should  be taken from the campaign against cancer  (Natural Sciences, paragraphs 101 and 102). He  further proposed deferment of the campaign and  retention of the funds for other purposes. The  Advisory Committee had recommended the  deletion of that project and the Programme and  Budget Commission had only approved it after   V1-37 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  considerable argument and by a very narrow margin.  As funds were short, it was a suitable part of the  programme for making reductions and it would be  wise to allow the project to mature before Unesco  became involved in a controversial field.
(7) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) supported the  proposal of the United States delegate, for the  reasons the latter had given, and also because  such enquiries as his own delegation had been able  to make during the Conference indicated that  considered scientific opinion would favour the line  of action he liad proposed. The arguments in tae  Programme Commission had been emotional and  not scientific. If the United States proposal were  accepted, nearly $18,000 would become available,  which were needed for increases in other farts of  the programme. The Programme Commission,  for example, had wished to increase the subvention  to the International Council of Scientific Unions, but  the Director-General had been unable tc implement  the proposal through lack of funds. He therefore  moved the adoption of the United States resolution,  the savings, after deduction of $4,000 for the World  Confederation of Organizations of the Teaching  Profess.on, to be held in abeyance.
(83) Mr BOW (Canada) supported the proposal of the  United States delegate and the suggestion of the  United Kingdom delegate. He approvea the principle  of tapering off subventions, but, in that instance, he  would favour maintenance at the previous level for  the reason which had been given,
(9) Vith regard to the campaign against cancer, he  urge | that the Committee, in its report, should  stro gly reaffirm its previous decision. Approval  of the project would create an unfavourable  impression in Canada, where more than Unesco's  total budget was being spent annually on cancer  research, and where it would be difficult to explain  how Unesco could hope to do any effective work with  such a small allocation.
(10) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) agreed with the first part  of the United States delegate's proposal. With  regard to the campaign against cancer, however,  while he understood the reasoning, he could not  approve the suppression of the project for reasons  of economy, or because it was desired to use the  funds for another project. If delegates were opposed  to the allocation of funds for the campaign, they  should raise the question in the Programme and  Budget Commission or in the Plenary Conference,  but not in the Advisory Committee, whose task was  to adjust the budget. The Committee must be  practical: if the project were suppressed, it would  certainly be raised again during the Conference and  more time would have to be spent discussing it. He  urged that the Committee should have faith in the  judgment of the Secretariat not to proceed with a  project if it were found to be impracticable, He  proposed that the $4,000 in question should be taken  from paragraph 384 of the chapter on Education.
(11) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) proposad that  the campaign against cancer should not be eliminated,  but that it should be left in the programme,  - 860 -     even with a reduced budget, to allow the possibility  of further consideration.
(12) Mr. LAUGIER (France) said that his  delegation would do everything in its power to  convince the Executive Board and the General  Conference that cancer research needed to be co-  ordinated and promoted by international action,  Research had been begun in many countries, and  fresh results were being obtained every day. But  the French delegation was persuaded that, if the  results of ail the research were internationally  co-ordinated, it would be considerably more  effective,
(13) Mr. Laugier pointed out that the appropriations  requested were ludicrously small, and that it was  not a question of setting up a laboratory, but of  endeavouring to make better use of the effor:s of  isolated research workers.
(14) When the World Health Organization had made  its position clear, it had been found that WHO could  usefully undertake concerted action with Unesco.  {15) Mr. Laugier felt that Unesco could not stand  aside from the campaign against cancer and was  convinced that the Organization's decision would  be of historic significance.
(16) Mr. LEE (United States of America) accepted  the Egyptian delegate's proposal to postpone  discussion of the campaign against cancer and saw  some merit in the United Kingdom delegate's  proposal, He requested that the cancer project  should be considered as the source for the $4,000  needed to restore the WCOTP subvention to the  level agreed by the Programme and Budget  Commission.
(17) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that there could  be no subsequent discussion of the campaign against  cancer, since it was not included in the document  under consideration. It was essential to consider  not only the re-establishment of the subvention, but  also where the funds were to come from, and a  vote must therefore be taken first on whether or  not to restore the subvention, secondly on the  United States delegate's proposal and lastly on the  delegate of Israel's proposal.
(18) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) said that there could  be no question of returning to major items on which  the Programme Commission had already taken a  decision, and he doubted whether the Committee  had the right to say whether a project or a  budgetary allocation already approved by the  Commission should be dropped or deferred. With  regard to the subvention, in view of the explanation  in document 8C/BUD/4 (page 1, Education:  paragraph 51), and since it appeared adequate for  the present needs of the Confederation, he could  see no reason for an increase.
(19) Mr. BOW (Canada) disagreed with the  statement of the delegate of France that research  cn cancer was unco-ordinated: on the contrary,  there was close international liaison in that field.  He did, however, agree that the sum Unesco was  proposing to allocate to such an important subject   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VI-37  was ludicrous, and that its adoption would be  i egarded as an historic retrograde step on the part  of Unesco. With regard to the World Health  Organization, he had listened to the speech of the  representative of that Organization and his  interpretation of it did not accord with that of the  French delegate.
(20) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) proposed that a vote be  taken first on whether or not the subvention should  be increased and then, if necessary, on where the  additional money should be found.
(21) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL considered that  adequate reasons had been given for reducing the  subvention. The normal procedure in helping an  organization to establish itself was to start with a  high subvention and taper it off as the organization  became more secure. In certain circumstances,  as in the case of ICSU, a normal sustaining  subvention was given. The original proposal had  been to give a sustaining subvention to WCOTP,  but, in view of the Commission's decision, it had  been decided, as a compromise, to make the  tapering off process more gradual.
(22) With regard to the campaign against cancer,  it would be out of order to cancel the project at the  present stage, but there would be no objection to  proposing a reduction in the budgetary allocation.  If it were decided to increase the subven:ion to  WCOTP by $4,000, he would not oppose the  deduction of that sum from the cancer project. He  did not, in any case, consider the budgetary  provision for that project ludicrous: the work  envisaged was in the nature of co-ordination, and  at the present juncture it was only proposed to make  a study for submission to the next General Confer-  ence. He had consulted the World Health  Organization, which had approved the plan of work.
(23) The CHAIRMAN did not accept the p »ssibility  of restoring a subvention as an excuse fc» elimin-  ating another project. He insisted that only the  amount needed should be sought and accordingly  proposed the following procedure:
(1) A vote on the desirability of restoring the  amount of $4, 000 to WCOTP,  {2) A vote on the United States proposal to take  the sum from the cancer project.
(3) A vote on the delegate of Israel's proposal,  if the United States delegate's proposal were  rejected.
(24) Mr. LEE (United States of America)  accepted the course proposed by the Chairman.
(25) With regard to the Director-General's  explanation, he saw no evidence in the budget for  Education to show that the tapering off process was  a normal procedure: it appeared to be limited to  the case in question,
(26) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that there had  been no inconsistency. The case in question  happened to be the only one arising under Education.
(27) Mr, SEDES (france) said that the French  delegation fully accepted the reasons the  - 861 -     Director-General had given to justi‘y the reduction  in the subvention.
(28) In his opinion, a distinction should be made  between star. ng subventions and sustaining  subventions, The decision taker. might have  implications for the future and «nable Unesco to  revise its policy on contracts,
(29) Mr, Sedes agreed with the Indian delegate  that the Committee should accept the explanations  given by the Secretariat and Jet the proposed  reduction stand.
(30) A vote was taken on the proposal to restore  the sum of $4,000 to the su'svention granted to the  World Confederation of Organizations of the  Teaching Profession,
(31) The proposal was re;ected by 7 votes to 4  with 1 abstention.  Paragraph 167
(32) Approved,  Paragraph 175
(33) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) said that the recom-  mendation was the first instance of the elimination  of an entire project. He proposed that an amount  of $2,000 should be retained, to be round from  paragraphs 178, 213 or 384 under Education. In  the case of paragraph 384, it would mean reducing  the addition proposed by the Programme and Budget  Commission from $14, 000 to $12,000,
(34) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa-  tion) said that the Secretariat had proposed the cut  with great reluctance, and it had been thought that  funds might perhaps be found under paragraph 246  of the Department of Social Sciences. The  Secretariat would not, however, oppose the  delegate of Israel's proposal, and would prefer  the last of the three alternatives suggested.
(35) Mr, SEDES (France) said that, as a practical  social scientist, he considered it impossible to  evaluate a pilot project with an appropriation of  $2,000. In his opinion, the solution proposed by  the Director-General should be adopter
136) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that the  $2, 000 would be of some use, and it might be  possible to transfer other funds to add to it  later in the year.
(37) The proposal of the dele gate of Israel,  seconded by the delegates of Germany, India and  Egypt, was adopted by 8 votes to 2 with 1  abstention,
(38) Paragraphs 185, 192, 13, 218, 413 and 415  were apprcved.  CHAPTER 2 — NATURAL SCIENCES  Paragraph 58
(39) Approved.   v1-37 ADVISORY CONMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  Paragraph 79
(40) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) asked how the proposed  cut would be made.
(41) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) said that, in the past, the records of  sympcsia on arid zone research had been published  in a bilingual French-English edition, the papers  remaining in the original language. It was proposed  to insert after each paper a summary in Spanish,  sufficient to give the reader the gist of it.
(42) That course would involve an additional  expenditure of only $2,500, whereas a separate  Spanish edition would cost double that amount.  Moreover, in the latter case, there would be no  reason for not having separate French and English  editions.
(43) The CHAIRMAN asked whether the volume  included an English summary of the original French  and a French summary of the original English.
(44) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) replied in the negative and contirmed the  Chairman's assumption that Spanish readers would  have readier access tu the complete records,  although in summarized form.
(45) Paragraph 79 was approved.  Paragraph 137
(46) Mr. BOW (Canada), recall.ng that the question  of the campaign against cancer was still in abeyance,  proposed that the budget for ‘hat project should be  reduced to a nominal amour.t, to maintain it in  existence, and that the reriainder of the funds be  applied to paragraph 137,
(47) The proposal was supported by the delegates  of Egypt and the United Stites of America, and the  Chairman pointed out that the restoration of  $15, 000 under paragraph 137 of Natural Sciences  would leave a sum of about $2, 000 for the project  on cancer,
(48) In reply to a question irom the United Kingdom  delegate, the CHAIRMAN sa d that there was nothing  to prevent further cuts being made in the allocation  for the carnpaign against cancer if funds had to be  found under any paragraphs where the Committee  might decide to reject the Secretariat's proposed  reductions,
(49) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) asked why the Director-  General and the Secretariat had not themselves  proposed any reduction for the cancer campaign.
(50) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) recalled that there had been a lengthy  discussion in the Programme and Budget  Commission on the campaign against cancer,  and that the Commission had voted in favour  of maintaining the project. "he Secretariat  had therefore taken the view that it would  be improper to do away with the project for  purely financ>ai reasons.  - 862 -
(51) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) accepted the explanation  given.
(52) Mr. BOW (Canada) found the explanation  concerning the campaign against cancer inconsistent  with the Secretariat's proposal to eliminate the  project under »aragraph 175 of the chapter or  Education.
(53) The (CHAIRMAN pointed out that in the case  of paragraph 175 the Director-General's proposal  had not b:en approved in its entirety; an amount  of $2,000 had had to be found from another part  of the programme. He saw no inconsistency.
(54) Tne DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that, even if  the sura of $2,000 had not been retained under  paragraph 175, the project would not have been  entirely ruled out, since evaluation was also  provided for under Soc‘al Sciences. The situation  was therefore different.
(55) He recalled the rernark of the Director,  Department of Natural Sciences, that it would be  inelegant to kill a project, and also his reference  to the long debate in the Programme and Budget  Commission, It was undesirable to delete the  project entirely, but he haa been willing to agree  to funds being transferred f-om it if the proposal  to restore the subvention to WCOTP had been  adopted.
(56) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the delegate  of Canada would be quite at linerty to oppose the  cut under any paragraph and t> recommend in each  case that funds be taken from the campaign against  cancer.
(57) Mr, SEDES (France) thought the Canadian  delegate's proposal regarding paragraph 137  inadmissible. It was not a question of eliminating  a project, but of reducing the number of experts  from 3 tu 2, In his opinion, with the co-operation  that could be expected from the National Com-  missions, the project could be carried out with
(58) Mr. Sedes informed the Committee that his  delegation approved the proposed reduction of  $15,000,
(59) Mr. COWELL (Urated Kingdom) failed to  understand the degrees of elegance as between  reductions proposed by the Director-General and  those recommended by the Committee. In his view  the wisest procedure would be to work through the  document, leaving to the end of each chapter the  task of deciding how to find the func's for the total  of any cuts which the Committee wished to restore.
(60) The CHAIRMAN was strongly opposed to the  procedure suggested by the United kingdom  delegate, which would involve the Committee in  working through the programme a second time. If  cuts were opposed, the means to restore them  must be considered in each case when a proposal  was made.
(61) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) supported the procedure   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON  advocated by the Chairman. Any other method would  involve a complete revision of the programme, and  the reopening of controversial discussions,
(62) Mr. HACQUAERT (Belgium), reverting to the  Committee's ‘decision on paragraph 175, pounted  out that it meant deleting an appropriation of  $7 000, which had been obtained for youth move-  ments, with great difficulty, during the discussions  uf the Programme and Budget Commission, He was  surprised at such a hasty decision.
(63) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL did not understand  the objections of the Belgian delegate. The  procedure prorosed for paragraph 137 of the Natural  Sciences chapter was entirely analogous to that  followed in connexion with paragraph 175 of the  chapter on Education.
(64) Mr. \VIDOR (Israel) proposed that a vote  should be -aken on whether or not to retain the  campaign :gainst cancer.
(65) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) referred to the  question of a balanced programme, and suggested  that the deletion of the activity under paragraph 139  of the chapter on Natural Sciences might to some  extent be compensated by the retention of the  $15, 000 under paragraph 137. He accordingly  proposed the restoration of the budget under  paragraph 137, the funds to be taken from the  campaign against cancer, leaving the sum of  $2,680 for the retention of that project.
(66) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) proposed that  the retention under paragraph 137 and the reduction  for the campaign against cancer should be voted or  separately.
(67) The CHAIRMAN said that a vote to restore the  $15, 000 to paragraph 137 must be conditional on  finding the sum elsewhere in the programme.
(68) Mr. SEDES (France) thought that the two  decisions should be taken together, for, if the  Committee decided to restore the $15,000, the  sum would automatically be taken frorn the  appropriations for the campaign against cancer.
(69) Mr. BOW (Canada) supported the proposal of  the French delegate.
(70} The proposal of the delegate of France was  put to the vote and adopted by 7 votes to 4 with
2 abstentions.
(71) A vote was then teken on the proposal of the  Canadian delegate to restore the amount of  $15, 000 under paragraph 137 of the Natu -al  Sciences chapter, and to deduct the amnu-.. from  the campaign against cancer,
(72) The proposal was adopted by 6 votes to 4  with 3 abstentions.  Paragraph 172   (73) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  - 863 -  PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VI-37  Sciences) reminded the Committee that the  Programme and Budget Commission had decided  to maintain the Delhi Office at the existing level,
1.e., with an appropriation of $95, 000 for the  two years, instead of the $35, 000 provided for  in the draft programme.
(74) The Secretariat proposed that the extra  $60, 000 be obtained in the following way: (1) a sum  of $35,000 would be allocated to the Delhi Office;
(2) to cover the remainin ! 25,000, an official  (grade P. 4) from the Depariment of Natural  Sciences would be seconded to Delhi to fill one of  the posts that were to have been abolished in the  draft programme. The appropriation for the P. 4  post would be found by 1 transfer within the budget.  The sum required would be $21, 826.
(75) Ir answer to a question from the CHAIRMAN,  Mr, AUGER said that the Indian delegation had  agreed to a reduction of $25, 000 on the $60, 000  required for maintaining the office at the existing  level, on condition that an official from headquarters  were sent to Delhi. :  Paragraph 196
(76) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Programme  and Budget) explained that paragraph 196 referred  to a headquarters post for co-ordinating Science  Co-operation Offices. The proposal incluu.d an  incumbent who might be transferred to New Delhi.
(77) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) asked for an  explanation of how the add.tional $60,000 proposed  by the Prograinme and Budget Commission in the  first part of document 8C/BUD/4 under paragraph
172 of the Natural Sciences chapter (page 3) was  financed,
(78) Mr, RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau cf Programme  and Budget) explained that the Programme and  Budget Commission had proposed an increase of  $10,000 under paragraph 172 and the Secretariat's  proposal was to reduce that increase by $25, 000  and to restore the staffing pattern by having a P.5  post instead of a P.4 one. The remainder of the  sum would be provided partly by the reduction  under paragraph 196 and partly by the Indian  Government,
(79) Paragraph 196 was approved.  Paragraph 197
(80) Mr, AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) thought the Committee realized that the  Director-General would have to review the whole  question of Science Co-operation Offices during
1955. The proposal regarding paragraph 197  marked the beginning of that review.
(81) As the Secretariat saw it, the Scienc:  Co-operation Offices were destined to become  decentralized bodies, napable of carrying out the  Unesco programme themselves. whereas in the  past they had been liaison agents,
(82) It had been found that, in the new programme,  the Offices could be made responsible for   VI-37  co-ordinating Unesco's activities in their respe-tive  regions. Those, like the Istanbul Office, which  existed solely for liaison purposes, could be  dispensed with,
(83) The Cairo Office would take over the activities  of the orar.ch office in Turkey.
(84) Mr. AVIDOK (Israel) said that the Istanbul  Office had been established for three countries:  Turkey, Iran and Israel, The delegate of Turkey  baa indicated that his country wished to belong to  the European and not the Middle East region; for  Israel, contact with Headquarters in Paris was  adequate; and Iran could be accommodated by  either Cairo or Paris. He accordingly supported  the closing cf the Istarbul “ffice,
(85) Paragraph 197 was pproved.  Paragraph 198
(86) Approved.
(87) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) asked what  weight should be attached to the note at the top of  page 4 of the document: a recommendation to  increase the subvention to ICSU"if funds are  available had no meaning. As he understood 1t,  if the Commission had recommended that the  subvention should be increased, the Director-  General would have submitted proposals on how the  necessary funds should be found.
(88) The CHAIRMAN said that funds were not, in  fact, available. In any case, he did not see how  the Advisory Committee could take action in the  absence of a definite recommendation from the  Programme and Budget Commission.
(89) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained that the  Programme and Budget Commission had had in  mind that if, after the proposed reductions had  been considered, there were found to be any surplus,  it should be used to increase the subvention to ICSU.  Since the Commission had made no suggestions for  finding funds from other parts of the budget, he had  not felt it possible to offer any proposals himself,  The Commission had not taken a vote on ‘he matter,  CHAPTER 3 — SOCIAL SCIENCES  Paragraphs 123 and 127
(90) Approved.  Paragraphs 140-163
(91) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of  Social Sciences) said that the sum of $826 was an  incidental saving resulting from the replanning of  Project 3.4.
(92) Paragraphs 140-163 were approved.  Paragraph 190
(93) Approved.  - 864 -     ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  Paragraph 222
(94) Mr. LEE (United States of America)  recalled that the Advisory Committee, when  discussing the project, had advocated high  pricrity because it was eminently suited to the  basic purposes of Unesco. In the cou se of  discussion the Social Sciences Department had  suffered most and been the least demanding, and  he felt that the reduction under paragraph 222  should be less severe. He accordingly proposed  the restoration of a sum of $6, 420, to be taken  from the project in draft resolution 8C/DR/63  (referred to on page 5 of document 8C/BUD/ 4) to  publish the works of the Polish poet Adam  Mickiewicz. That resolution had Leen placed in  the programme at a very late date and was not  integrated in the programme; it was, moreover,  an activity more appropriate for non-governmental  organizations, National Commissions and  national orgamzations, Several similar projects  had been rejected, and he Saw no reason to depart  from principles in programme planning at the  expense of a high priority project.
(95) My. JUNANKAR (India) agreed that the  project under paragraph 222 deserved nigh priority  and appreciated the fact that the proposed  international centre was to be located in India.  ‘The proposal tu stagger the establishment of the  centre would not materially affect its priority and  he accordingly gave it his support.
(96) Mr, SEDES (France) was prepared to approve  the proposed reduction if the Indian delegate  agreed to it.
(97) But he found it difficult to accept the method  suggested by the delegate of the United States of  America, who had advocated a cut in one item of  the programme in order to make possible an  increase in another,
(98) Mr. Sedes pointed out that, if an appropriation  of $6,420 for a particular project were cut out,  so that the sum might be transferred elsewhere,
1t would not necessarily meet the requirements of  the project to which it was allocated,
(99) Mrs, MYRDAL (Director, Department of  Social Sciences) said that the amount of $13, 400  represented reductions of from $2, 000 to $3,000  in five posts at the centre. A delay in recruiting  staff from the beginning of January 1956 to  February or March was possible and introduced  a certain flexibility in the funds required.
(100) Mr, LEE (United States of America), while  realizing that the country primarily concerned  with the project was India, considered that the  Secretariat should not take a decision without  consulting all interested countries.
(101) With regard to the proposed reduction,  it appeared to him irresponsible tc reduce  funds for a high priority project, while  adding funds for a project which was not  viewed very favo.rably and which had been  submitted too late to be properly integrated  in the programme,   ADVISORY
(102) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that the item  referred to by the delegate of the Umted States ci  America had been approved in the Program.ne and  Budget Commission by 14 votes to 12 on a motion  to delete the resolution.
(103) Mr BOW (Canada) supported the proposal of  the United States delegate,
(104) The proposal of the delegate of the United  States of America to restore the sum of $6, 420 to  paragraph 222 and withdraw the amount from the  implementation of resolution 8C/DR/€3 was put to  the vote and rejected by 2 votes to 5 with 4  abstentions.
(105) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) explained his  abstention from voting. He might equally well have  been iaced with a choice between diphtheria and  smallpox, neither of which he desired,
(106) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) said that the  United Kingdom delegate had voiced his own views.  The vote which had just been taken was a departure  from normal rrocedure. The operative part had  been the proposed reduction, and while he favoured  that cut he would have preferred to see the funds  anplied elsewhere.
(107) Mr. LEE (Umted States of America) pointed  out that he had spoken in favour of the International  Centre lor Research on Social Froblems of  Irdustrialization in Asia long before resolution
8C/DR/ C3 had been received.
(108) The CH*IRMAN noted the comment of the  United States delegate.
(102) The Director-Ceneral's proposal concerning  parag.aph 222 was approved.  Paragraph 261
(110) Approved.  CHAPTER 4 — CULTURAL ACTIVITIES : PARAGRAPHS 32-34,
(111) Approved.  CHAPTER 5 — MASS COMMUNICATION : PARAGRAPHS 197 and
(112) Approved.  CHAPTER 6 = EXCHANGE OF PERSONS: PARAGRAPHS 106  and 111
(113) Approved,  CHAPTER 7 — GENERAL RESOLUTIONS : PARAGRAPH 27
(114) Approved.  COMMITTEE ON     - 865 -  PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VI-37  CHAPTER 8 — DOCUMENTS AND PUBLICATIONS: PARAGRAPI
(115) Approved.  PART Ui - GFNERAL ADMINISTRATION  CHAPTER 1: PARAGRAPH 16  CHAPTER 2: PARAGRAPIIS 39 AND 37  CHAPTER 4: PARAGRAPH 79
(116) Approved,  PART IV — COMMON SERVICE COSTS  Paragraphs 14 and 39
(118) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of  Programme and Budget} drew attention to two  further alterations proposed by the Programme  and Budget Commission, which had been received  too late for inclusion in the document:
1. A reduction of $2,000 for the two-year  period under General Resolutions, paragiaph 21,
2. Approval of resolution 8C/DR/15 (Friends  of Unesco Clubs) involving a sum of $500 for 1956.
(119) The total amount available would therefore  be $1,500.
(120) Mr. JUNANKAR {India) proposed that the  sum should be applied to the International Centre  for Research on Soctal Problems of Industrialization
1n Asia (paragraph 222 of the Social Sciences  chapter).
(121) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) proposed that
1t should be used for the pilot project under  paragraph 175 of the chapter on Education,
(122) The proposal of the delegate of Egypt was  adopted.
(123) The CHAIRMAN recalled that the first report  of the Advisory Committee had contained a  recommendation that draft resolutions from  Member States should be submitted to the Director-  General at an earlier date in order not to impede  the work of the Conference, as had happened at  the present session. No action, however, had  been taken by the Programme and Budget  Commission, and he thought that it would be  appropriate to call the matter to the Commission's  attention.
(124) Another question still outstanding w-< the  future of the Advisory Committee. In his opinion,  the change in the Executive Board's structure to  provide for government representation eliminated  the need for the Committee, but members would  have to consider the matter so that a recommend-  ation could be made to the Conference.
(125) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that the   VI-38  question of draft resolutions would normally come  up for discussion by the Executive Board in  connexion with the organization of the work of the  next session of the General Conference. If,  therefore, no action were taken by the Programme  and Budget Commission, he himself would bring it  to the attention of the Board,
(126) In reply to a question from Miss LAISE  ‘United States of America), the CHAIRMAN said  that the Appropriation Resolutioh would be  discussed at the next meeting of the Programme  ard Budget Commission and subsequently by the  Advisory Committee,    ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET
(127) Mr. HACQUAERT (Belgium) thought that the  changes made 1n the structure of the Executive Board  should be a reason for keeping the Committee in  being, since it represented the voice of the majority  in the Conference.
(128) He therefore proposed that the Committee be  maintained, and that its members be chosen, for  preference, from among the delegates of countries  not represented on the Executive Board.
(129) The CHAIRMAN said that the question would  be taken up at the next meeting of the Committee.  The meeting rose at 12,10 p.m,  THIRTY-EIGHTH MEETING
8 December 1954 at 5.30 p.m.  Chauman: Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Australia)  APPROPRIATION RESOLUTION FOR 1935 AND 1956 (document
(1) The CHAIRMAN, on behalf of the Committee,  paid a tribute to the work done by Mr. Rao in  producing the resolution and appropriation table.
(2) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Programme  and Budget) said that the resolution and table had  been drawn up as in previous years.  Paragraph 1 and the Annex
(3) The CHAIRMAN pointed out a typing error,  The figure 874, 861 opposite Total, Part I should  read 847,861 (English text only).
(4) Paragraph 1 and the Annex were adopted.
(5) Paragraph 3 was adopted.  Paragraph 4
(6) On a point being raised by Mr. LEE (United  States of America), there was some discussion  whether the figures given referred to assessments  or to total estimates,
(7) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) suggested  (and it was so decided) that the paragraph should  read: "Assessments in respect of 1955 shall he  based on the total estimates ($9, 491, 420), for that  year, and assessments in respect of 1956 shall be  based on the total estimates ($10, 508, 580) for  that year."
(8) Paragraphs 5 and 6 were adopted.    - 866 -  Paragraph 7
(9) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Programme  and Budget), in answer to a question by Mr, ARDEL.-  RAHMAN (Egypt), said that the Executive Board  would have to endorse any emergency transfers  the Director-General might make between  appropriation lines.
(10) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) said that, when the  Executive Board were informed of the details of the  transfers and the reasons for them, it might  disagree with the Director-General's action.
(11) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Programme  and Budget) said that the paragraph was a safety  clause, which the Director-General had never in  fact invoked, The Director-General would take the  action mentioned only when it was perfactly clear  that the Executive Board would not take exception  to it,
(12) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive  Board) said that the Director-General had ever  used the authority given him under the clause and  was very unlikely to do so. In practice, he cculd  always get i,0ld of the Chairman of the Board, who  would quickly send a circular letter to the  members, before action was taken,
(13) Paragraph 7 was adopted.
(14) Paragraphs 8 and 9 were adopted.
(15) The CHAIRMAN said that the resolution, as am-  ended, with the table, would be submitted to the Pro-  gramme and Budget Commission at its next meeting.