NOMINATIONS cCoOv“I!TTEE VII-4  FOURTH MEETING
7 December 1954 at 10 am,  Chairman : Mr. KABIR (India)  NOMINATION OF CANDIDAT 8 FOR MEMBERSHIP  OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD
(1) The CHAIRMAN recz!led that it had been agreed  the previous day to proceed immediately with the  secret ballot. As soon as tiie ballot had started, no  new names could be proposed. He therefore invited  any delegations wishing to propose new names to do  so at once.  (No new candidates were proposed.)
(2) The Chairman informed members of the  Committee that, out of the 30 candidates, they were  to vote for 22: if they voted for more or fewer, their  ballot papers would be invalid.
(3) At the Chairman's request, Miss McPHEE  (Secretary of the Committee) read the list of  candidates.
(4) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) read out Rule 95 of  the Rules of Procedure of the Conference, as  amended,
(5) Norway and Yugoslavia were appointed as tellers.
(6) The Nominations Committee then proceeded to  vote by secret ballot,
(7) The result of the vote was as follows  Mr. G. A. Raadi (Iran) 65 votes; Mr. Oscar Secco  Ellauri (Uruguay) 64; Mr. José Ricardo Martinez  Cobo (Ecuador) 64; Mr. Athelstan Spilhaus (United  States of America) 64; Mr. Orestes Ferrara Marino  (Cuba) 62; Mr. Henri Laugier (France) 62; Mr.  S. M. Sharif (Pakistan) 62; Mr. Mohamed Awad  (Egypt) 61; Mr. Paulo E. de Berredo Carneiro  (Brazil) 61; Mr. Arcot L. Mudaliar (India) 60; Sir  Ben Bowen Thomas (United Kingdom) 60; Mr,  Vittorino Veronese (Italy) 58; Mr, Haguiwara (Japan)
55; Mr. Juan Estelrich y Artigues (Spain) 54; Mgr  Jean Maroun (Lebanon) 53; Mr. Nathaniel V.  Massaquoi (Liberia) 53; Mrs. Maria Schlueter-  Hermkes (German Federal Republic) 51; Mr. Frans  Bender (Netherlands) 48; Mr. Jakob Nielsen (Denmark)  (Denmark) 44; Mr. Alexandr V. Solodovnikov (Union  of Soviet Socialist Republics) 42; Mr. Herman  Johannes (Indoresia) 41; Mom Luang Pin Malakul  (Thailand) 41; Mr. Jean Piaget (Switzerland) 39;    Mrs. Paz Reinoso de Rodriguez (Philippines) 35; Mr.  Samuel Sambursky (Israel) 33; Mr. Stefan Wierblowski  (Poland) 32; Mr. Rafael Bardaies (Honduras) 23; Mr.  George L. Paik (Korea) 23; Princess Souvanna  Phouma (Laos) 23; Mr. Vo Van Lua (Viet-Nam) 20.
(8) The CHAIRMAN announced that the number of  delegations entitled to vote had been 72. Four  delegations had been absent and there had been |  abstention and 1 invalid ballot.
(9) There had thus been 66 valid votes. The majority  required was therefore 34 votes. There were 24  candidates who had more than the required majority.  He therefore proposed that the Nominations Committee  recommend the first 22 names to the General  Conference, adding that two other candidates had  obtained more than the required majority.
(10) The Genera! Conference might wish to adopt a  provision for the future, stipulating that, when the  number of candidates having obtained more than the  required majority was greater than the number of  seats available, the first 22 on the list should be  elected.
(11) To solve the problem and avoid any difficulty  when the election was held at the plenary meeting,  Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) suggested that the  Committee recommend the General Conference to add  .he following clauses to Rule 89 of its Rules of  Procedure:  "If at any of the ballots a number of candidates  greater than the number of seats to be filled obtains  the required majority, those candidates having  obtained the greatest number of votes shall be  declared elected.  If, however, amongst the candidates having  obtained the greatest number of votes, two or more  have obtained an equal number of votes and are  competing for one or more seats yet to be filled, the  President shall decide between them by drawing lots."
(12) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) considered that the  Committee could hardly express an opinion straight  away on a proposal which had not been submitted in  writing, He therefore asked for it to be distributed  in the various working languages.  - 877 -   VII-5 NOMINATIONS
(13) The CHAIRMAN asked if the Committee would  agree to the proposal in principle, leaving it to the  Legal Adviser and the Rapporteur of the Legal  Committee to prepare a text for approval by the  General Conference.
(14) Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland) asked whether  the nroposal had been studied beforehand by the Legal  Committee and recommended by it.
(15) It was unanimously agreedto recommendthe first
22 names to the GeneralConference, adding that two  other candidates had obtained the required majority.
(16) With regard to the proposed modification of   procedure, as the text of the proposal was not  FIFTH  COMNITTEE  available and as 1t had not been considered by the  Legal Committee, it was agresd iv suppe7t, ht  not to recommend, ,that procedure to the General  Conference,
(17) The CHAIRMAN thankedallthe heads of  delegations for the patience and goodwill which  they had shown at the third meeting of the  Nominations Committee. Heassured them that  his only intention in proposing that discussion  be limited to procedural matters had been to  ensure that the Committee completed its work  in time.  The meeting rose at 1.45 p.m.  MEETING
10 December 1954 az 3.30 p.m.  Chairman : Dr. MUDALIAR (India)  RECOMMENDATIONS TO THE GENERAL CONFERENCE  CONCERNING THE ELECTION OF MEMBER STATES  TO SERVE ON THE LEGAL COMMITTEE, THE ADVISORY  COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET AND THE  COMMITTEE ON REPORTS BY MEMBER STATES
(1) The CHAIRMAN said that he had been called  upon to replace the Chairman of the Committee, who  had left for India,
(2) The task of the Committee was to elect the  Member States who would serve on three Committees  of the General Conference at its next session: the  Legal Committee, the Advisory Committee on Pro-  gramme and Budget and the Committee on Reports  by Member States,
(3) Document 8C/DIV/154 showed the membership  of those Committees as elected at previous sessions,
(4) The Member States to serve on the Headquarters  Committee and on the Executive Board had already  been elected,
(5) The President proposed the following lists for the  approval of the Committee:  Legal Committee (15 members) - Colombia,  Czechoslovakia, France, Italy, Japan, Laos,  Lebanon, Mexico, Netherlands, Pakistan, Union of  South Africa, United Kingdom, United States of  America, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,  Uruguay.  Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget
(17 members) - Australia, Burma (Union of), Chile,  Egypt, France, Guatemala, India, Israel, Philippines,  Poland, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, United Kingdom,  United States of America, Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics, Yugoslavia. Of those 17 members, 6 were  also members of the new Executive Board.    Committee on Reports by Member States (15  members) - Argentina, Austria, Cambodia, Ceylon,  Colombia, France, Honduras, Hungary, Iran, Jordan  (Hashemite Kingdom of}, Norway, Spain, UnitedKingdom,  United States of America, Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics. It hadbeen suggestedthat, inthe last  Committee, Korea should take the place of Colombia.
(6) Mr. MARTINEZ COBO (Ecuador) said that the  Latin American countries were under-represented on  the three Committees as proposed. They would not,  however, ask for additional seats, They did,  nevertheless, wish to propose that Colombia and  Argentina should be represented on the Legal  Committee, Chile and Mexico on the Advisory  Committee, and Guatemala and Honduras on the  Committee on Reports by Member States.
(7) Mr. SECCO ELLAURI (Uruguay) said that the  group of Latin American countries had reached easy  agreement on candidatures for the Executive Board,  because a nuraber of possible candidates had stood  down to make way for others. His country would  follow that example and would not stand for election  to the Legal Committee.
(8) Mr. MARTINEZ COBO (Ecuador) thanked the  delegate of Uruguay, and proposed that the place of  Uruguay be taken by Argentina.
(8) Mr. COLOMBO (Argentina), thanking the delegate  of Ecuador, said that his country was unable to  accept, being already proposea for the Committee on  Reports by Member States, It would prefer a seat on  the Legal Committee.  - 878 -