10 December 1924 at 9 a.m.  Chairman: Mr. ZAVALA MUNIZ (Uruguay)
(1) Mr. MONTAGNIER gave some explanations con-  cerning the programme of work appearing in the  Journal of the General Conference.
(2) At the last plenary meeting of the previous day,  the General Conference had almost concluded its  examination of the Administrative Commission's  report. The meeting had been presented with two  draft resolutions on the use of Russian as a working  language, and a draft amendment to Part III of  section F (page 41) of the Commission's report,  changing the section into resolution form (document
(3) A corrigendum to the Programme and Budget  Commission's report had also been issued (8C/PRG/
(4) With regard to item 20, an amendment to the  Ir lian delegation's draft resolution (document
8C/DR/4) had been proposed by the Chinese dele, a-  tion (document 8C/PRG/120). The draft resolutiois  had also been submitted on the organization and  working methods of the General Conference  (documents 8C/DR/118 and 119).
(5) The discussinn of {tem 10 would have to be post-  poned, pending receipt of the Nomination Committee's  report.  COMMEMORATION OF UNIVEFSAL DECLARATION  OF HUMAN RIGHTS
(6) Mr. LEROY, recalling the proposal that there  should be one or two speeches commemorating the  Universal Declaration of Human Rights at the plenary  meeting in the afterncon, asked which delegations  were to be asked to speak. He added that Mr. Laugier  was prepared to do so.
(7) Mr. VERONESE, without denying that such a  commemoration was timely, considered that it should  be as restrained ss possible. Too many speeches  could not fail to detract from the solemnity of the  occasion.
(8) Mr. SHARIF recalled that, on the last occasion,  the oaly two speakers designated to speak on biman  rights had been the President of the General Con-  ference and the delegate of France. He thought it  wiser once again to limit the number of speakers on  that subject to two. :
(8) Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS remarked that, since  speeches on human rights had become a biennial  event, it would be advisable to establish some stan-  dard procedure. The Conference should avoid  informality and should not recognize any vested right    in a particular State to speak on human rights. He  therefore proposed that the Executive Board be  asked to present a resolution, which would be moved  by the host country - in the present case Uruguay -  and seconded by the next host country, namely India,  The resolution would then be put to the vote without  any further speeches.
(10) The CHAIRMAN proposed that, instead of  speaking himself as President of the General Con-  ference, the Chairman of the Executive Board should  speak, inaccordance with the United Kingdom proposal.
(11) Sir Ronald ADAM hoped that the General  Committee would allow him to depute his right to  speak to a member of the Executive Board. He  moved that Mr. Henri Laugier be authorized to speak  on human rights as representative of the Executive  Board.
(12) Mr. LEROY was sure that Mr. Laugier would  be very happy to speak, not only on behalf of the  French delegation, but also as representative of the  Executive Board.
(13) The proposal of Sir Ben Bowen Thomas, as  amended by the Chairman of the General Committee  and the Chairman of the Executive Board, was  adopted.  REQUEST TO ADDRESS THE PLENARY CONFERENCE
(14) Mr. MONTAGNIER announced that the represen-  tative of the Universal Esperanto Association had  asked t~ speak at a plenary meeting on thc Programme  and Budget Commission's report.
(15) Under Rule 68 of the Rules of Procedure, the  General Committee could grant that authorization,  but, in order not to set a precedent, it had never yet  done so.
(18) Mr. BOURGEOIS did not wish either to support  or oppose the granting of the authorization, but he  felt bound to remind the General Committee that the  speeches made against the Association's proposal  had been made in terme that were hardly fitting  That, together with the fact that speakers were  allowed only three minutes each, explained why the  Association's representative might have some cause  for dissatisfaction and might wish to express him-  self more fully in a calmer atmosphere.
(17) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL observed that,   ORNERAL COMMITTEE m-18  normally, he would not intervene in such a matter,  but be feit it his duty to call attention tc the fact that  the speeches to which the Chairman of the Programme  and Budget Commission had referred, had given rise  to a somewhat difficult public relations problem vis-  -À-vis a large, influential and determined Organization.  Moreover, it seemed that there was some basis for  a grievance. He therefore proposed that, in order  to ease Unesco's relations with the Universal Esper-  anto Association, an exception be made in the present  case.
(18) While sympathizing with the Director-General's  point of view, Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS pointed out  that, if the test were to be public relations'and the  removal of a sense of grievance, there were several  other organizations which had lost their case before  the General Conference and would carry their sense  of grievance to the ends of the earth. He felt that to  allow the representative of the Universal Esperanto  Association to speak, would create a very dangerous  precedent.
(19) In view of the difficult situation which had  arisen, Mr. ZAMORANO HERNANDEZ thought that  the Director-General's proposal should be adopted,  but that it would be still more appropriate to authorize  the General Committee, if it so agreed, to allow the  representative of the Universal Esperanto Associa-  tion to speak, only on condition that time was  available.
(20) Mr. BROWNELL fully appreciated the Director-  General's problem and was glad that Unesco realized  that its usefulness was dependent upon the support of  organizations in sympathy with its aims. The  Universal Esperanto Asscciation had undoubtedly done  much to further Unesco's aims. At the same time,  the request of the representative of the Association  did not seem to be in Unesco's interests, as it would  be liable to alienate the sympathy of certain other  groups. The United States delegate therefore pro-  posed, as a possible solution, that a small committee  be formed to assist the Director-General to solve  the public relations problem by talking over the  Association's case with its representative.
(21) Mr. LEROY considered that the question of  working languages was of vital importance to an  organization like Unesco. dowever, in supporting  the Director-General's proposal, he hoped that the  General Committee would stress the exceptional  nature of the authorization granted.
(22) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL agreed with the  delegate of the United Kingdom that a dangerous  precedent would be created if the representative of  an organization whose case had been rejected were  allowed to speak on the merits of his case at a  plenary meeting. In the present circumstances,  however, there was no question of reopening a dis-  cussion on the merits of the resolution; it was  simply that the representative of the Universal  Esperanto Association felt that he had been the victim  of a procedural injustice. The Director-General  appreciated the suggestion made by the delegate of  the United States of America, and proposed that the  - 287 -     Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission,  cne of the Vice-Presidents of the General Conference  and the Director-General form a committee to listen  to the case of the reprasentative of the Universal  Esperanto Association.
(23) Mr. VERONESE was in complete agreement  with the solution proposed by the United States  delegate and accepted by the Director-General, but  he would have preferred less emphasis on the aspect  of righting an injustice, the procedure followed at  the meeting in question having been perfectly in order.
(24) He suggested that the representative of the  Universal Esperanto Association, after his talks  with the Director-General and the Chairman of the  Executive Board, be given the opportunity to circu-  late a document amongst the delegations, if he  desired to do so.  ITEM 19 OF REVISED AGENDA
(25) In connexion with item 19 of the agenda, Mr.  HAGUIW ARA wanted to know whether the Acting  Chairman of the Nominations Committee had been  appointed, whether the list to be presented to the  Committee had already been drawn up, and what  decision had been taken about the nomination of  members of the Advisory Committee on Programme  and Budget.
(26) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained that the  usual procedure was for the Chairman of the Nomi-  nations Committee, with the assistance of the  Secretariat, to prepare a list of States for submis-  sion to the Committee, In the present case,  however, the Chairman of the Committee had been  obliged to leave, and there was no Vice-Chairman.  Either the Nominations Committee or the General  Committee would, therefore, have to appoint an  Acting Chairman. The Secretariat had already pre-  pared a tentative list of States.
(27) Mr. VERONESE considered that, although the  election of a new Chairman for the Nominations  Committee was legally entirely in order, the most  elementary justice demanded that the Indian delega-  tion be asked to choose a deputy from amongst its  members. He wished to propose that as a formal  motion.
(28) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL stated that the  Programme and Budget Commission had recom-  mended to the General Conference that the Advisory  Committee on Programme and Budget be elected that  day, 10 December, that it consist of 17 members,  a majorit: of whom should belong to Member States  not represented on the Executive Board. The  Secretariat had prepared a list of States, of which  six were represented on the Board and the rest were  not,
(29) The Indian delegation having agreed to  nominate another member of the delegation to  replace the Chairman of the Nominations  Committee, the proposal of the delegate of  Italy was adopted.   I-13 GENERAL
(30) Mr. HAGUIWARA asked whether the number of  members to serve on the three committees had been  definitely fixed. It happened only too often that  certain delegations not represented on them proposed  that the committees should be enlarged, which was  not conducive to efficient work.
(31) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL announced that,  under Rule 31 of the Rules of Procedure, the Lr "al  Committee consisted of 15 members and that the  membership of the Committee on Reports of Member  States had been raised to 15 members; if the Con-  ference adopted the proposal of the Programme and  Budget Commission, the Advisory Committee on  Programme and Budget would have 17 members; the  Headquarters Committee had 14 members. Although  the members of the Headquarters Committee had  already been elected, its membership should perhaps  be reviewed from the point of view of geographical  distribution.  Draft resolutions 118 and 119
(32) Referring to item 4 (1) on page 2 of the Journal  of the General Conference (No. 24, Montevideo, 10  December 1954), Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS thought  that the phrasing of the proposal was too casual. He  proposed that there be a rider to draft resolutions
8C/DR/118 and 119, requesting delegates, on return  to their own countries and in consultation with their  governments and National Commissions, to formulate  their ideas on the organization of the General Con-  ference and to submit them in good time to the  Executive Board.  - 268 -     COMMITTEE
(33) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL welcomed the  proposal of the delegate of the United Kingdom.
(34) Mr. VERONESE moved that the United King-  dom delegation, responsible for draft resolution  DR/119, contact the Danish, Norwegian and Swedish  delegations, which had submitted draft resolution  DF./118, with a view to combining the two proposals  in one, since they were identical in substance and  very similar in form.
(35) Mr. Veronese considered that the revision of  the methods of work of the General Conference  should be studied as soon as possible, so that the  experience gained at the current session might be  used to the best advantage.
(36) Adopted.
(37) The CHAIRMAN thanked members of the  General Committee for their co-operation, which  had enabled the Committee's work to be brought to  a successful close.
(38) Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS moved a vote of  thanks to the Chairman of the General Committee.  He himself had been a member of the General  Committee at three or four sessions of the General  Conference and had never known a happier atmosphere  in the Committee; that was certainly due to the  Chairman's skill and wisdom in guiding its work.
(39) The motion was adopted by acclamation.  The meeting rose at 10 a.m.