1 GAL COMMIT . BE VHI-6  SIXTH MEETING
2 December 1951 ut 10 a.m,  Chairman. Mr, AWAD (Egypt)  VAT OLS QUESTIONS REG AR ING THE PROCEDURE FOR  TIFF FLECTION OF MEMBERS Of THT #\EFCUTIVE BOARD
(1) The CHAIRMAN said that the subje.t had been  raised in the General Committee and had been  referred to the Legal Com: ‘ttee 1n its legal aspects.  The Secretar :at hid on the other hand circalated …  pa >r on the conduct of elections by secret ballot,  which was subr.itted for 11e consider tion of tue  Comrutte as document 8C/D1V/133.
(2) He invit d the Legal Adviser to introduce the  subject.
(3) Mr. SABA (Leg .l Adviser) said ‘hat, with  regard to the procedure for the slection of members  of the Executive Board, the Legal Committee | ad  Leen reques:ed to ~eport co tt : General Con mittee  on the three following questions:
1. Would a ballot pape. carrying fewer ames  than the number of vacancies be valid?
2. In vaat circumstances could candidat s whose  names had not been approved by the Nomina .ons  Committee, be considered eligit "2?
3. What action should be taken to remove the  contradiction between Article IV, 8, a of the  Constitution and Rules 8! 89 of the Rules of  Procedure of the General conference?
(4) On the proposal -* Mr, HAGUIWARA (Japan),  the Committee decided to take the third question  first.  (+) Mr. SAJA (Legal Adviser) explained that  paragrapt 2 of Rule 88, and Rule 89, of the Rules of  Procedure were not in keeping with Article IV. 5.a  of the Constitution, as they permitted the election n1  c: lidates in the second ballot who had obtained no  more than a plurality, while Article IV, 8. a stipulated  ‘at decisions of the Conference should be taken by  an "absolute majority", i.e. by 50% lus one of the  votes,
(6) Mr. CABOUAT (France) observed that the  Constitution took precedence of the Rules of  Procedure. He therefore proposed that Rules 88  and 99 of the Rules of Procedure should be amended  so as to bring them into line with Article 1V. 8. a of  the Constitution,
(7) This proposal was seconded by Mr. HAGUIWARA  (Japan),
(8) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the rules for  the conduct of elections by secret ballot adopted by  the General Conference at its sixth session laid  - 897 -     down that a candidate to be elected needed to obtain  the majority required by Rures 48 o1 89 of the Rules  of Procedure.
(8) Mr. BLANCO ACEVEDO (Uruguay) stated that  paragraph 8a f Section C of Article IV of the  Constitution required a simple najority, while Rule  £3 (2) of the "ules of Procedure said that,a relative  majority was needed. In view of that discrepancy he  recommended that the Constitution should prevail and  that the necessary amendment be made in the Rules  [J ocedure to bring them into line with the  Constitution,
(10) Sir Kenneth GRUBB (Uuited Kingdom) supported  the views expressed by the representative of France.
(11) The CHAIRMAN drew attention to paragraphs 17  and 18 of the Rules adopted by the General Conference  for the conduct of elections by secret ballot, with  particular reference to the definition of "absolute  majority’ in the first hallot under Rules 88 and 89 of  the Rules of Procedure. The defimtions adopted by  tie General Conference in 1951 were still binding  aud it was for the Legal Coinmittee to accept them  or alter them.
(12) Mr. sABA (Legel Adviser) said that the  contradiction Letween Rules 88 and 89 of the Rules of  Procedure and Article IV. 8. a of the Constitution  could be removed by the following amendments:
(13) In paragraph 1 of Rule 88, delete the words "in  the first ballot”. Delete paragraphs 2 and 3 of Rule
88 in their entirety.
(14) In Rule 89, first sentence, delete the words "in  the first ballot’ and delete the second sentence in its -  entirety,
(15) In document 8C/DIV/133 (Rules for the conduct  of elections by secret ballot, extract from the  Resolutions of the sixth session of the Geueral  Conference), the last sentence of paragraph 17 should  be amended to read:  "Fifty per cent plus one of the votes recorded  shall constitute the absolute majority required under  Rules 88 and 85,"
(16) Mr. KOTSCHNIG (United Stztes of America)  agreed that it was preferable to alter the Rules of  Procedure rather than the Constitution. However, in  order to avoid an indefinite number of drawn votes,  with the votes being continually recast for the same  candidates, the most practical solution would be to  replace Rules 88 and 89 of the Organization's Rules  of Procedure by the corresponding Rules of the Rules  of Procedure of the General Assembly of the United   VIIL-6 LEGAL  Nations. Rule 88 would then read’  "When only one person or member is to be elected  and no candidate obtains in the first ballot the  majority required, a second ballot shall be taken  which shall be restricted to the two candidates  obtaining the largest number of votes. If in the  second ballot the votes are equally divided, the  President shall decide between the candidates by  drawing lots,"
(17) Rule 89 would read  "When two or more elective places are to be filled  at one time, those candidates obtaining in the first  ballot the majority required shall be elected, If the  number of candidates obtaining such a majority is  less than the number of persons or members to be  elected, there shall be additional ballots to fill the  remaining places, the voting being restricted to the  candidates obtaining the greatest number of votes in  the previous ballot to a number not more than twice  the places remaining to be filled."
(18) The same principle would thus be embodied in  both Rules, and the discrepancy between the  Constitution and the Rules of Procedure would be  eliminated.
(19) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) supported the  proposal to adopt the wording of the Rules of  Procedure of the General Assembly of the United  Nations,
(20) Mr. WEST (United Kingdom) was ia favour of  radically amending Rules 88 and 89 and the relevant  paragraphs inthe Rules for the conduct of elections  by secret ballot adopted by the General Conference at  its sixth session, That would make it rossible to  avoid the difficulties connected with the notion of  "absolute majority",
(21) The CHAIRMAN assumed that the Committee  was in favour of substituting the relevant Rules of  Procedure of the General Assembly of the United  Nations for Rules 88 and 89, and invited a drafting  committee, composed of the Representatives of the  United Kingdom, the United States of America,  France and Japan, as well as of the Legal Adviser  and the Rapporteur, to j:5pose an exact text.
(22) He suspended the meeting for 10 minutes.
(23) The meeting having res: sed, Mr. SABA (Legal  Adviser) submitted the following proposals which  tnok into account the exchange of views that had  taken. vlace:
(24) In paragraph 1 of Rule 88 the words "in the  first ballot" would be deleted.
(25) Paragraphs 2 and 3 of the same Rule would be  replaced by the texts quoted by Mr. Kotschnig from  the Rules of Procedure of the United Nations General  Assembly. Mr. Saba read out the texts again,  adding that the French version would be brought into  line with that of the Rule in question.
(26) Rule 89 would also be replaced by the text  proposed by Mr. Kotschnig.
(27) Mr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America),  supported by the representative of the United  Kingdom, proposed that, in order to eliminate  entirely the difficulty arising from the notion of  - 898 -     COMMITTEE  "absolute majority", the first sentence vo Rule 88 he  deleted; he pointed out that it was already implied in  the text of the Rule as adopted by the drafting  committee.
(28) Mr, CABOUAT (France) remarked that the  phk-ase "absolute majority" was not an appropriate  term to designate a number of votes equal to "fifty  per cent plus one of the votes".
(29) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) observed that under  Mr. Kotschnig's proposal no more than the “required  majority" would now be necessary under paragraph
88. He therefore invited the Committee to approve  that proposal, In that event the words "absolute  majority" should also be deleted from the last sentence  of Rule 17 of the Rules for the conduct of elections by  secret ballot (document 8C/DIV/133). This sentence  should then read:  "Fifty per cent plus one of the votes recorded shall  constitute the majority required under Article IV. Ba  of the Constitution and Rules 88 and 89 of the Rules of  Procedure of the General Conference."
(30) The Committee said it was prepared to approve  the amendments just mentioned by Mr. Saba to the  following paragraphs or Rules: Rule 89 and paragraphs
1 and 2 of Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure; Rule 17  of the Rules for the conduct of elections by secret  ballot.
(31) With regard to Rule 88, paragraph 3, Mr.  HAGUIWARA (Japan) observed that the drawing of  lots betvreen two candidates who had obtained the  same number of votes was contrary to the Rules of  the Constitution, since ultimately it might lead to the  election of a candidate who had not obtained the  required majority.
(32) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) considered that  legally Mr. Haguiwara was right and that the proposed  drawing of lots was not really compatible with the  provision that no candidate should be elected without  having obtained the required majority.
(33) Mr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America)  pointed out that the incompatibility meniioned by Mr.  Saba was not absolutely true. The system proposed,  if accepted, meant in fact conferring on the Chair a  right of vote which the Chair would use in favour cf  the candidate designated by the draw, thus permitting  him to obtain the required majority.
(34) Mr. WEST (United Kingdom) observed that the  system of drawing lots was sanctioned by numerous  precedents.
(35) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) none the less thought  it incongruous that a Director-General, for example,  might ultimately be elected by drawing lots.
(36) Mr. BLANCO ACEVEDO (Uruguay) agreed with  the Japanese delegate. In important votes the final  decision shoulc not be left to chance but to the  conscience of celegates. It would hardly seem serious  to leave it to chance. He preferred and therefore  recommended at the ballot should continue until it  clearly reflected the opinion of delegations,   LEGAL COMMITTEE
(37) Mr. MERMINOD (Switzerland) also shared the  Japanese delegate's opinion.
(38) Mr. CABOUAT (France) asked Mr. Saba to  describe the practice in othu: international  organizations.
(39) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) replied that, as the  United States delegate had already stated, the Rules  of Procedure of the United Nations General Assembly  permitted the drawing of lots when there was an equal  number of votes in the second ballot for two candidates  to one post. Not all the Specialized Agencies had  adopted that procedure, the ILO, for instance,  followed another method.
(40) In reply to a remark by Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan)  regarding the system used in certain parliaments of  giving the Chair an additional vote in case of an equal  division in the voting, Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser)  pointed out that there was a considerable difference  between a parliament and an intergovernmental  organization. At the General Conference it was  States and not deputies who ha he right to vote. But  the State to which the President or Chairman belonged  already had a vote which was exercised by another  member of the delegation appointed to represent 1t at  the Conference.
(41) Mr. BAUGNIET (Rapporteur) and Mr.  MERMINOD (Switzerland) approved Mr. Saba's  observations.
(42) Taking into account the exchange of views  which had just taken place, Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan)  proposed that paragraph 3 of Rule 88 be replaced by  a clause stating that in the event of an equal division  at the second ballot, further ballots must be held  until the required majority was obtained,
(43) Upon the Committee's taking a vote on the  Japanese proposal, it was found that an equal number  of votes had been cast on either side.
(44) Mr. JARAMILLO ARANGO (Colombia)  suggested as a compromise that the Japanese proposal  should be discarded in favour of another, viz. that a  third baiio: =hould be held and, if both candidates  still obtained the sème number of votes, then lots  should be drawn. he asked the Secretariat to draft  a resolution to that ef ect.
(45) M.. TA ROUAT (France) seconded the Colombian  delegate's propos “i
(46) The CHAIRMAN invited the Committee to vote  on the substance of the proposal, leaving it to Mr.  Saba to find a suitable draft later.
(47) The Colombian proposal was adopted by 9 votes  to 1, with no abstentions.
(48) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) explained that in  voting against the Colombian proposal he had been  prompted solely by a legal doubt, for, as he had  already said, he felt that to draw lots was at  variance with Unesco's Constitution,    VIII-6
(49) The CHAIRMAN invited the Committee to study  the second question on which the General Committee  had asked it to come to a decision - the validity or  invalidity of certain ballot papers.
(50) Mr. BAUGNIET (Rapporteur) imad.cated the  shanges which he thought should be m: de 1n Rules 13  and 14 of the Rules of Procedi re concerning the  conduct of elections by secret allot.
(51) Mr. Baugniet's proposals were seconded by the  United States and United Kingdom delegates and  approved,
(52) The CHAIRMAN invited the Committee to take a  decision on tne question as to the conditions in which  candidates could be regarded as eligible whose names  had not been avproved b: the Nominations Committee.
(53) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) recalled that, in  conformity with the decisions recently taken, the  clause which stipulated that "Only delegates  nominated either by the Nominations Committee or by  two delegations, before the ballot, may stand for  election (to the Executive Board)" had been struck out  trom Rule 95 of the Rules of Procedure of the General  Conference. That being so, he considered that the  rôle of the Nominations Committee was now a purely  advisory one and that all candidates nomznated by  Member States were in fact eligible, irrespective of  what the Nominations Committee felt about them.
(54) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) accepted Mr. Saba's  interpretation but wished to know until when it was  open to Member States to nominate candidates.
(55) Mr. SABA {Legal Adviser) thought nominations  would be acceptable until the ballot was taken. The  second and later ba.lots could however only apply to  those candidates not so far elected who had obtained  the largest number of votes in the preceding ballots.
(56) Mr. BAUGNIET (Rapporteur) added that the  number of names on the ballot papers must always be  equal to the number of vacancies still to be fillea.
(57) The Committee approved the foregoing  interpretation of the provisions regarding the  nomination of candidates.
(58) The Comirittee then examined the following  question. interpretation of Article V, paragraph 3,  of the Constitution (eligibility for re-election of  Executive Board Members) {document 8C/JUR/ 4).
(59) The CHAIRMAN recalled that Article V,  paragraph 3, of the Constitution dealt with the  re-eligibility of members of the Executive Board. A  memorandum had been prepared on the subject by the  Japanese delegation (document 8C/JUR/4), which the  Committee had before it.
(60) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) had very little to add  to the memorandum submitted by his delegation, but  thought it desirable that Mr. Saba should offer the  Committee his comments,  - 839 -   VIII-6
(61) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) recalled that Article  V. 3 of the Constitution stipulated that members  completing their term of office on the Executive  Board were immediately re-eligible for a second  term, but that they could not sit for more than two  consecutive terms. Having regard to the change in  the Board's structure, the question now was whether  terms or parts of terms during which any particular  individual had sat on the former Board should or  should not be taken into account with regard to his  re-eligibility to the new Board.
(62) Mr. BAUGNIET (Rapporteur) thought the reply  was in the affirmative. He saw no reason for  distinguishing between the old and the new Board  with regard to re-eligibility.
(63) Mr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America)  said that, in addition to the two extreme interpreta-  tions given in the Japanese memorandum, there was  a third interpretation, which, he thought, should be  taken into account, That was the case of the  member who, at the time of the modification of the  structure of the Executive Board, had served only  half his term on the Board. He knew of members  who were in precisely that situation. In his opinion  that should not he counted as a term, and the  provisions of Article V, paragraph 3 should not, in  that particular case, apply.
(64) Mr, KABIR (Chairmon cf the Nominations  Committee) hoped that the case of individual members  would not be taken into account in the discussion. He  also pointed out that it would in some cases be  difficult to apply such a rule to members elected on a  casual basis.
(65) Mr, KOTSCHNIG (United States of America)  said that, after the explanations given by the Legal  Adviser, he would be prepared to support the  proposal ou.l*~ed by tbe Rapporteur.
(66) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) thought that there  might be some doubt as to the effect of the  modification of the Board's structure, namely  whether the rule of non-eligibility for immediate  re-election was applicable to present members of the  Board who had so far sat on the Board in a personal  capacity. Nevertheless, 1f it were decided to apply  that rule, no distinction could be made between  members on the basis of the effective duration of the  terms they had already served. A distinction of that  kind would not, moreover, remove all unfairness and  could not, he felt, be approved without a prior  alteration of certain provisions of the Constitution.
(67) Mr. BRIGHT (Liberia) wished to know if under  the provision under consideration the members of  the Executive Board were individuals or Member  States.  (€8) Mr. SA BA (Legal Adviser) explained that  thenceforward the members of the Board were persons  representing States.
(69) The CHAIRMAN thought the Committee agreed  that the interpretation given by the Rapporteur,  - 800 -     LEGAL COMMITTEE  advocating continuity in the Executive Board, was the  correct one,  {70) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) pointed out that the  Administrative Commission had, in his view, decided  in favour of the principle of "discontinuity" between  the old and the new Boards The Japanese proposal  which the Commission had rejected as being at  variance with that interpretation, had, on the contrary,  aimed at ensuring a measure of "continuity" between  the old and the new Boards by allowing for the  re-eligibility of certain members whose term had  been curtailed as a result of the changes in the  Board's structure.
(71) Mr. WEST (United Kingdom) had the impression  that the Admimistrative Commission, while accepting  the principle of discontinuity in the memuvership of  the Executive Board on a purely legal basis, had, from  the point of view of personalities, been in favour of  continuity. That was shown by the fact that under the  new system the members of the Board, who were now  representing their governments, would still be  considered as individuals. They could for example  resign personally but could not be recalled by their  governments,
(72) The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the principle that  any previous term served by a member of the Executive  Board should be taken into account with regard to his  re- eligibility to that body, any part of a term being  counted as a full term.
(73) The principle, as enunciated by the Chairman,  was adopted by 7 votes to none, with 4 abstentions.
(74) The Committee went on to consider the amend-  ments to the Rules of Procedure resulting from the  adoption of Kussian as a working language of the  General Conference.
(75) Mr. 5ABA (Legal Adviser) stated that the  amendments in question would inevitably affect Rules
52, 55 and 60, in which Russian would be included  among the working languages enumerated, unless the  list of working languages were dropped in accordance  with the solution already adopted for Rules 57, 59 and
78, where mention was made of the working languages  but without any list.
(76) In reply to a question from Mr, KOTSCHNIG  (United States of America), Mr. MONTAGNIER  (Chief of the Bureau of Conference Planning and  Gereral Services) said that, when the General  Corference was held away from headquarters, it  would be difficult to have the Conference Journal  printed in Russian, but the Russian edition might  perhaps be replaced by a shorter, unprinted version  got out with whatever duplicating apparatus might be  available.
(77) Mr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America)  said that his delegation would not object to the  proposals outlined by the Head of the Bureau of  Conference Planning and General Services. It would  thenceforward be necessary to interpret Rule 55 in  the light of what Mr. Montagnier had said.   LEGAL COMMITTEE
(78) After a brief discussion it was decided to add  Russian to the list of working languages at present  appearing in Rules 52, 55 and 60.
(79) Upon the proposal of Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan),  it was also decided that the heading of Rule 53 should  SEVENTH  VIII-7  be amended to read "language of the country in which  the Conference is being held" instead of "Additional  working languages".  The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m,  MEETING
2 December 1954 at 3,30 p.m.  Chairman : Mr. AWAD (Egypt)  DRAFT RESOLUTION AMENDING THE FINANCIAL  REGULATIONS (document 8C/DR/90)
(1) Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller), referring  to the proposal contained in paragraph 4 of the Spanish  resolution that the Director-General should submit a  revised version of the Financial Regulations to the  General Conference at its ninth session, pointed out  that the United Nations and its Specialized Agencies  had held a series of meetings three years previously  to try and agree on uniform financial regulations.  Financial regulations common to the United Nations  and its Specialized Agencies, with variations only 1n  accordance with their various Constitutions, had been  finally agreed upon. Those regulations had been  submitted to and adopted by the General Conference  at its sixth session. Slight modifications had been  made by the General Conference at its seventh session,  but they did not alter the substance of the regulations.
(2) He submitted that it would be difficult for the  General Conference to revise the Financial Regula-  tions without going through the machinery of the  United Nations and its Specialized Agencies.
(3) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) added to the remarks  made by the Comptroller and said that one of the  provisions of the draft resolution (first paragraph)  would be difficult to apply. It was stipulated that  thenceforward no decision of the General Conference  should be valid if it was contrary to the provisions of  any part of the Financial Regulations. As it was the  Director-General and the Secretariat who were  responsible for executing the decisions of the  Conference, that provision would put the Director-  General in a difficult position by obliging him to  interpret both a resolution and the Financial  Regulations; it might also force him to forbid a  particular resolution being executed; he would thus  act both as executive agent and final arbiter; Mr.  Saba urged the Committee not to impose sucha  responsibility on the Director-General, He asked  the Spanish delegate if he would be prepared to  withdraw that provision.  - 901 -
(4) In answer to the CHAIRMAN, who asked what was  really expected of the Legal Committee, Mr.  HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) said that the  Administrative Commission had considered that, as  the majority of points in the resoluticn would involve  changes to the Rules of Procedure, it would request  the advice of the Legal Committee.
(5) If paragra; h 1 became effective, an insertion  would be necessary in the Ruies of Procedure.  Likewise, paragraphs 2 and 3 referred to Rules of  Procedure.
(6) The CHAIRMAN remarked that the Admimstrative  Commission had taken no ecision on the resolution  and it was not yet clear what 1t wished to do about it.  In that case, he t.ought that the Committee vias frer  to give the resoluuon consideration along an, lirz,  suggested by 1ts members.
(7) Mr. KOTSCHNIG (United Sta‘ - o America)  shared the apprehension of the Lega. Comittee  concerning the impact of paragraph 1 and wondered  if the delegation of Spain would be villing to withdraw  that paragraph.
(8) In his opinion, paragraphs 2 . nd 3 presented no  difficulties. À financial regulaticn would not be  suspended lightly. He was willirz to support the  proposals.
(9) Paragraph 4 was not clear. He would agree if  the Director-General were asked to make a study of  the effectiveness and soundness of the financial  regulations and to report to the General Conference  at its ninth session.
(10) Mr. FRAGA IRIBARNE (Spain) thanked the  Chairman and members of the Committee for allowing  him to speak although he was not a member of the  Committee.
(11) He said he had listened to the criticism made  about tne draft resolution presented by his delegation  to amend the Financial Regulations and was prepared  to withdraw paragraph 1. He thought that paragraph
4 could be altered so as to avoid the disadvantages  which had been mentioned; thus paragraphs 2and 3 would  remain; those he wishedto maintainas being of value.