VI-15 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  FIFTEENTH MEETING
10 November 1954 at 10 a.m,  Chairman: Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Australia)  ITEM 1.2 OF THE AGENDA: PRELIMINARY CONSIDERATION  OF THE DRAFT PROGRANME AND BUDGET FOR 1933-36,  BEFORE THE OPENING OF THE SESSION (continued)  CHAPTER 7: GENERAL RESOLUTIONS  Project 7.3: Regional Office in the Western Hemis-  phere (paragraphs 22-27)
(1) The CHAIRMAN invited discussion on the Havana  Office, bearing in mind the decision to recommend to  the Programme and Budget Commission to set up a  working party en the problem of decentralization,
(2) Mr, MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) intro-  duced Mr, Francovich, Director of the Havana  Regional Office.
(3) Mr. FRANCOVICH (Director of the Regional  Office in the Western Hemisphere) reported briefly  on the work of the Havana Regional Office. Despite  its official title, it worked only in Latin America,  among a group of peoples who were not only geogra-  phically related but linked by similarities of political,  linguistic and economic organization, etc. so that  they formed a homogencous whole, an interaational  community in which Unesco could develop the general  lines of its policy. That was the real reason why the  Office was necessary.
(4) The Havana Regional Office differed from the  Science Co-operation Offices, in that the field of  activity of the latter, being limited to the natural  sciences, was sharply defined, whereas the Havana  Office carried out in the whole of Latin America the  full range of work required by the programme of  Unesco, dealing with governments, Natjonal Com-  missions and scientific centres and covering an  extremely wide and varied field.
(6) The activities of the Office could be divided into  three main sections; the first was concerned with  relations with the Member States in the region, the  governments of those States, and their Ministries  and authorities, and included the encouragement of  the growth of National Commissions and the sup-  plementing of their work. The Commissions were  not functioning as they should and constant effort had  therefore to be devoted to them. That work was  carried out by tne Regional Office through visits and  through assistance to meetings and congresses, in  regular consultation with the National Commissions,  with whom it also maintained a considerable  correspondence. In order to provide a stimulus *~  the Commissions, the Office produced and circulated  its Monthly Information Bulletin, which gave news  about Unesco and the Office itself.
(6) Secondly, the Havana Office was always at the  disposal of the Secretariat for carrying out Unesco's  programme in the countries of the region, Work  done in that way was rnore effective than if done from  Paris. The officials of the Regional Office were  better acquainted with political, social and religious  conditions, etc. in the countries concerned and knew  better which people in Latin America were interested  in the Unesco programme. Moreover, in carrying  out the programme itself, technical assistance  activities had to be conducted, and advice and guidance  provided, in closes co-operation with people whe took  an interest in Unesco, The assistance thus provided  by the Regional Office reduced the amount of official  travel necessary for members of the central Secre-  tariat. It was easier to work from Havana than from  Paris and the expenditure on travel was naturally  lower.
(7) The third aspect of the work of the Havana Office  was extremely important: through the Office, Unesco  and all its regular forms of activity were continuously  represented in the region. Unesco did not mean a  programme only: it was a kind of conscience whereby  a new type of international co-operation could be  developed.
(8) In Latin America, there was a tendency to hold  frequent meetings and conferences, between the  countries designated as Spanish American, Latin  American, Indo-American, etc, according to the  special characteristics and cultural features of ihac  region. If it were not for Unesco, such trends  towards regionalism would become excessive.
(9) The Office collaborated in these meetings,  attended them and offered them the benefit of its own  experience, keeping before them the world-wide  interests of Unesco, It took part in the meetings,  acquainted them with the Organization's programme  and made every effort to ensure that the resolutions  they adopted were in accordance with Unesco's ideals,  The Centre of American Studies, the Health Institute  and the Caribbean Commission, for instance, were in  direct and continuous contact with the Havana Office  and could thus be influenced by Unesco, The work  of the Office therefore covered a very wide field and  entailed not only office -rork but travel,
(10) The Unesco Bulletin for Libraries wns published  in Spanish by the Regional Office and ht 1 a circulation  of 1,000 to 1,500 copies. One thousand copies of the  monthly Information Bulletin were distr buted to  Ministries, organizations and individuals interested in it  throughout the region In the same way, the Spanish  edition of the Bibliographical Newsletter was  distributed to people interested in that publication,
(11) To give an idea of the activities of the  Havana Office, mention might be made of  - 738 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON  some carried out in the previous month.
(12) On 4 October 1954, the study and information  seminar for youth leaders in Latin America was  opened, Sixty .epresentatives took part in that  seminar, which was extremely successful, as Mr.  Maheu, who had been present at it, had seen. Mr.  Frangois had also expressed his satisfaction at the  results of the meeting,
(13) On 15 October, the Office took part in the Second  Inter-Latin American Congress on Education, heldin  Quito by the Institute of Hispanic Culture and attended  by seven Ministers of Education and representatives  of 14 countries. Unesco was invited and was also  present. At that Congress, Mr. Francovich had  reported on the work of Unesco and, as a result, the  Congress adopted resolutions concerning co-operation  with Unesco on many points.
(14) On 24 October, the Medellin pilot project Public  Library for Lati> America was opened - an oxtremely  important event. The Regional Office had taken an  active par! in the preparations for the opening, and  an expert, Mr, Carlos Victor Penna, had worked for  five months organizing it. The Director-General,  who had been present at the opening ceremony, had  been able to appreciate the importance of the project,  which was of great value to Colombia and should help  enormously towards the development of public  libraries in Latin America.
(15) Mr. Francovich did not think it necessary to  enumerate further aspects of the work the Havana  Regional Office was doing in execution of Unesco's  programme in Latin America but was prepared to  provide the Committee with any further information  delegates might desire,
(16) Miss LAISE (United States of America) con-  sidered that neither the statement of the Director of  the Regional Office nor the justification in the  Director-General's Report gave a clear indication of  what the Office had achieved, It was true that the  initial activities would be largely concerned with  disseminating information on Unesco and its work,  but enough time had now elapsed for people interested  in the development of regional programmes to ask  what were the lessons to be learnt and what were the  specific accomplishments expected from a regional  office which could not be achieved by other means.  She asked if it would be possible to have a brief  summary of the Havana Office's contribution to the  development of National Commissions in Latin  America.
(17) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) agrced  that the question put by the delegate of the United  States of America was a very important one but he  emphasized that 1t was difficult to give a brief, cate-  gorical, immediate reply. Miss Laise had, infact,  asked what the Office had done which could not have  been done without it. In his statement, Mr.Francovich  had shown that the functions of the Office were of a  general character and that the influence it exercised  was indirect; it was rather difficult to say what  was directly and exclusively due to the Office.  The Secretariat did not claim that the Office  was essential for the representation uf Unesco  in the region. The fact that the Office was  situated in the centre of the countries it served    PROGRAMME AND BUDGET Vi-15  conferred upon its activities a psychological value  which, although difficult to measure, should not be  underestimated.
(18) Mr. FRANCOVICH (Director of the Regional  Office in the Western Hemisphere) said that an idea  of the practical achievements of the Office could be  gained from a description of the work it had done for  libraries, The staff of the Office included a  specialist on cultural activities, and work with  libraries was an item in the programme of the cultur-  al section, The work in that field would not have  been done if there had been no such Office. The  libraries specialist brought out the Unesco Bulletin  for Libraries in Spanish and distributed it throughout  the region, but the Bulletin published by the Office  was not simply a literal translation of the one pub-  lished in Paris; a quarter of the contents of each  number was composed of material relating to the  countries of Latin America. It was an important  work of reference which would not have existed if it  had not been published by the Office and it was thanks  to it that Unesco's activities were known throughout  Latin America,
(19) The same specialist circulated the Bibliogra-  phical Newsletter in Spanish, a task which took up  much of his time.
(20) In addition to its publications, the Havana Office  was greatly interested in library activities and took  part in the librarians' conferences, of which two had  already been held in Cuba, and others in Panama and  Colombia, Those conferences were attended by  librarians, who derived from them guidance and  encouragement in their work. The libraries expert  had also prepared a handbook on library conferences.
(21) There had also been a conference in Cuba on the  exchange of publications, The countries concerned  had concluded agreements on that type of exchange,  but experience had shown that the agreements were  often not implemented, The Havana Office had helped  to publicize Unesco's programme regarding the  exchange of publications for 1955-56.
(22) The influence of the expert was felt in the  schools and universities but also reached out to other  spheres, He had, for instance, taken part in other  meetings such as that on rural libraries at Turrialba
(23) The Havana Office aiso maintained close con-  tacts with the National Commissions and had helped in  establishing those of Nicaragua and Chile. Besides  stimulating the work of the Commissions, it supplied  them with information they required, through the  Information Bulletin.
(24) Mr, SILLER (Mexico) confirmed that the work  described in the statement by the Director of the  Havana Regional Office was useful and constructive,  The support of Unesco was extremely useful in the  Caribbean region, Mexico and the whole of Central  America, The National Commissions had made con-  siderable progress, and the Mexican Commission, at  least, had tc thank the Regional Office for its co-  operation in securing that result,
(25) Moreover, the davana Office was doing work  which could not be carried on in the same way from  Paris. America, like Asia, had special charac-  teristics that made Regional Offices necessary for  carrying out campaigns which could thus be better  - 739 -   VI-15 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  planned and more successfully executed, Lastly,  the Havana Office was also necessary for securing  the best results from missions of experts, The pur-  pose of these Regional Offices was not decentralization  but the extension of the activities of the Central  Secretariat.
(26) Mr. RANIERI (Uruguay) entirely agreed with  everything the delegate of Mexico had said and felt  that the Havana Office was a necessary auxiliary for  Unesco's work in Latin America, There should be  continuity in the activities of Unesco, and he consi-  dered that the Havana Office should retain the  priority allotted to it in the budget.
(27) Miss LAISE (United States of America) asked  for information on the extent of co-operationbetween  the Regional Office and the Organization of American  States.
(28) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) expressed  appreciation of the Cuban Government's contribution  of $10,000 and asked whether financial assistance  had been received from other Member Governments  or from the Organization of American States and, if  not, whether any might be expected in the future.
(29) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) re-  plied that such assistance from OAS was neither  forthcoming nor expected.  Project 7.1: Developmer:t of National Commissions  (paragraphs 3-12)
(30} The CHAIRMAN invited the Chief of the Division  for Relations with Member States and National  Commissions to introduce the item.
(31) Mr. CHEVALIER (Chief, Division for Relations  with Member States and National Commissions),  introducing project 7.1, mentioned that 62 of the 72  Member States at the moment had National Commis-  sions, the highest proportion so far achieved. Their  structure and operation were very varied; some were  practically independent bodies, with a staff of up to
60 full-time officials and a budget of as much as  $100.000, whereas others consisted only ot a single  official in a central government department, who had  a list of leading people in the country; in some  countries, meetings of those people were held, in  others not. National Commissions of the second  type could be regarded as existing in name rather  than in fact. Between those two extremes were  National Commissions consisting of a small nucleus  of government officials, together with representa-  tives of the world of culture, The Secretariat had  drawn up a schedule of all the National Commissions  in order to study their relations with government  circles, and that survey had revealed a very great  diversity. The distinguishing feature of the pro-  posed programme was the desire to ensure that the  necessary variety of methods made the Commissions  really effective; the budget estimates set forth in  material terms what were almost symbolic projects,  indicating the directions in which the Secretariat  wanted to act and the directions in which it had been  asked to act by the National Commissions themselves.    All the propcsed activities had been tried and their  efficacy proved, They included visits Ly the  Secretaries of National Commissions, selected from  different continents, (0 the headquarters of Unesco,  at the rate of about ten a year, in order to see how  the Secretariat worked and the kind of liaison that  could be established between the Secretariat andtheir  own countries, It was essential for the success of  the system that the Secre.aries of National Commis-  sions should remain in office. The budget estimuies  for the project, which had amounted to $13,000 a  year, had been reduced by 50% in order that the 50%  saved might be devoted to another form of activity  complementary to the former.
(32) This second activity consisted in the appointment  of national correspondents, a method of procedure in  accordance with the Constitution and widely used by  the International Labour Organization, which devotea  no less than $350,000 a year to correspondents and  regional offices, This activity had been thought  advisable by the Secretariat, but its efficacy naturally  depended on the choice of the correspondents, who, it  was proposed, should be appointed for a limited per-  iod in countries experiencing difficulties in setting up  a National Commission, during which time they  would take steps to establish the Commission. In the  meantime, they would act as Secretaries of the  National Commissions; an appropriation of $6,500  had been proposed for that purpose - a sum not  exceeding that included in the previous budget and  which should make it possible to appoint two or three  such correspondents, paid at local rates, in different  countries, whereas, if an international official were  employed, all the funds would have to be used for one  person,
(33) The third activity included in the programme,  missions of members of the Secretariat, had already  been tried out: in 1354, for instance, an official had  visited two National Commissions which required  reorganization and had taken the opportumty of  attending regional seminars and meetings; $1,500  had been provided for work of that type.
(34) The programme then went on to provide for the  organization of a regional conference; two confer-  ences of that kind had already been organized by  Unesco, at Havana in 1950 and at Bangkok in 1951.  A third conference, which it had been decided, in
1952, should be held in the Middle East in 1953, had  had to be replaced by a series of activities of interest  to the region. A proposal had been made, at the  instigation of a delegation to the General Conference,  that a conference of 16 Furopean National Commis-  sions be held in 1955. In the light of experience with  the previous conferences, and having regard to the  smaller distances to be covered, a sum of $20,000  had been requested for that purpose,
(35) Mr, Chevalier concluded his statement by  mentioning onz other project, for the republication of  the Handbook of National Commissions in looseleaf  form so that sections which were out of date could be  replaced. One thousand dollars was requested for  that purpose for 1955.
(36) The CHAIRMAN drew attention to the following  comment by the Executive Board indocument 8C/5 Add. 1:  "The Executive Board therefore stresses the  necessity for governmental action to make National  - 740 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON  Commissions more active and effective. On the  other hand, provision should be made for the second-  ment of Secretariat members to National Commissions  in accordance with Article VII 3 of the Constitution,"
(37) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway), referring to  paragraph 7, said that his Government had opposed  the appointment of national correspondents at previous  conferences and the situation did not merit any altera-  tion in that attitude. It was a dangerous policy to  encourage Member States to believe that everything  was to be paid for by Unesco, and to take away the  incentive of countries which had not yet established  National Commissions.
(38) He also opposed the Regional Conference of  European National Commissions proposed in para-  graph 9. If such à conference were desired, it could  be organized by other cultural organizations in  Europe or by the National Commissions themselves.
(39) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) said that the  National Commission in his own country had received  invaluable help from the Division for Relations with  Member States and National Commissions, with which  it was in almost daily contact. Nevertheless, he  agreed with the views of the delegate of Norway and  deplored especially the revival of the proposal to  appoint national correspondents, He appreciated the  Secretariat's concern at the relatively slow develop-  ment of National Commissions, which were essential  to Unesco's work, but felt that it would not be has-  tened by financial aid or stimulation of individuals in  the countries concerned, In any case, it was not  clear what the functions of a national correspondent  wouid be and, as he could not perform what must be  essentially national functions without government aid,  the government might well take care o. the entire  activities, He also shared the delegate of Norway's  objection to the proposed conference, which, while  useful in areas with limited means of communication,  was not really necessary in Europe,
(40) He supported the remainder of the programme,  in particular the proposed Unesco Handbook of  National Commissions (paragraph 11) and the visits  by Secretaries of National Commissions to the  Organization's headquarters (paragraph 6).
(41) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) supported the views of the  two previous speakers. The fact that there were  already 62 National Commissions was proof that  national correspondents were unnecessary. With  regard to paragraph 9, while regional conferences  were important in areas outside Europe to strengthen  National Commissions, they were unnecessary in  Europe. He proposed that the funds saved by sup-  pressing the two projects should be applied to other  activities for strengthening National Commissions.
(42) The CHAIRMAN asked the Chief of the Division  for Relations with Member States and National Com-  missions if he could provide any evidence of the value  of missions of Secretariat members proposed in  paragraph 8.
(43) Mr. CABOUAT (France) reminded the meeting  that complaints that the Organization was failing to  secure a hearing, not only among the general public    PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VI-15  but also among teachers and cultural circles, were  very common, The French delegation was convinced  that the best means of securing such a hearing was  through the National Commissions, and it would  always be prepared to support any action to strengthen  National Commissions or to encourage their establish-  ment. The means proposed in paragraph 7 - appoint-  ment of national correspondents - seemed to be  necessary in countries where the goverr.ments did not  appear to take as much interest as they should in the  setting up of a Commission, With regard to the  organization of a conference of European National  Commissions (paragraph 9), Mr. Cabouat was  inclined to agree with the United Kingdom's view,  although he felt that the appropriation requested  might be left as it stood in order to give the Secre-  tariat the opportunity of encouraging the establish-  ment of new Commissions throughout the world or of  promoting the work of existing Commissions; in that  respect, he favoured the proposal of the delegate of  Israel,
(44) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) agreed with part of what  the representative of the United Kingdom had said,  and was anxious that provision should be made, in  paragraph 7, for another, different form of  remuneration. He proposed that the activities  referred to in the paragraphs in question should be  carried out, at least in some cases, through the Co-  operation Offices and Regional Offices, as that would  make the work easier.
(45) Miss LAISE (United States of America) said that  the United States Government considered the develop-  ment of National Commissions a unique feature and  one of the most important parts of Unesco's work and  was disappointed that Secretariat efforts in that  direction had been so small, She was disturbed by  the small obligation for 1953 and the transfer of  unused funds to another section through the non-  materialization of a project, She asked whether the  Secretariat could provide information on activities  during the past two years.
(43) With regard to exchanges between the Secre-  tariat and National Commissions, she proposed that  these be expanded to include exchanges between  National Commissions themselves.
(47) Mr. FREY (German Federal Republic)supported  the previous speakers and, inparticular,the proposals  of the delegates of Israel and the United States of  America.
(48) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) said that there had been  adverse criticism of the reciprocal activities of  Unesco and National Commissions and asked whether  the Secretariat had made any effort to discover why,  in spite of efforts by the Secretariat and Member  States, National Commissions had never fulfilled  their intended rôle. He supported the United States  delegate's proposal for exch: nges between National  Commissions,
(49) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief} Bureau of Programme  and Budget), replying to the delegate of the United  States of America, said that the low level of obliga-  tions in 1953 was due to an allocation of $25,v00 for  - 741 -   VI-15 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  a regional confe.-ence in the Middle East being trans-  ferred from 1953 to 1954 and being assigned to other  activities in the Middle East. The amounts for 1855
56, however, represented the minimum required to  carry out the proposed activities. With regard to  the transfer of funds to another section, ..» Director-  General had considered that it would not be useful to  invite the Secretaries of National Commissions to  headquarters when the Secretariat was absent in  Montevideo.
(50) Replying to the obje.tions raised to the proposal  that national correspcuucnts be appointed, Mr.  CHEVALIER (Chief, Division for Relations with  Member States and National Commissions) agreed  that it was an innovation, but the Secretariat, which  had foreseen the objections in question, had endea-  voured to anticipate them by proposing that corres-  pondents ce appointed only for a limited-period,not  exceeding two years. If, at the end of that time,  they had not succeeded in setting up a Commission,  the experiment would automatically come to an end,  The establishment of a National Commission was  still the aim, but it had been thought expedient to  provide, in certain cases, for someone who could  learn the work of Secretary of a National Commission  With regard to the relations between the correspon-  dents and governments, it had been stipulated that  correspondents could be appointed only at the  proposal of their own governments, and that they  would work only in full agreement with the national  authorities; *hey would receive programme  instructions from the headquarters of the Organi7a-  tion, It should net be forgotten that certain countries  had great difficulty in seconding a full-time official  for work connected with Unesco, and that the  appointment of correspondents vould provide a  temporary solution. Mr. Chevalier left it to the  Assistant Director-General to answer the objections  to the proposal for a European conference,
(51) The usefulness of missions of members of the  Secretariat to other countries had been questicned  and, as an answer to the doub's expressed, Mr.  Chevalier quoted the case of one of his colleagues,  who had been sent to the Middle East, where he had  been able to make arrangements for the reorganiza-  tion of one National Commission and to promote the  establishment of another; he had also taken  advantage of a regional meeting to attempt to co-  ordinate work throughout the region. The idea of  exchanging information among the Secretaries of  National Commissions had been put forward, and Mr.  Chevalier could inform the Committee that the  experiment had already been tried out during the  current year when visits of Secretaries of National  Commission: © headqua-ters had been made to  coincide and several of the Secretaries had been  given the opportunity of visiting other countries to  study the organization of their National Commissions.
(52) The delegate of India had spoken of evaluating  the results achieved and Mr, Chevalier mentioned  that the Secretariat had considered doing this by  assembling all the available information in order to  determine the best way of organizing the National  Commissions and of establishing contacts between  Commissions in different countries. Overlapping  had sometimes Leen discovered between National  - 742 -     Commissions and governmental bodies and improve.  ment in that respect was necessary. It might be wel),  when the working party had finished its discussions,  to make a more detailed study of the organization and  functions of National Commissions and their relations  with governments,
(53) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General), re-  ferring to the proposal for convening a conference of  European National Commissions, remarked that the  Justification for such a meeting was rather different  from that for the similar regional meetings held in  Havana and Bangkok or for the assistance it had been  proposed to give to a regional confereace in the  Middle East in 1953, In those three cases, the object  had been to encourage and help countries handicapped  by their distance from headquarters, in setting up  Nationa! Commissions or developing those already in  existence which were still in the very early stages.la  Europe, though there was still room for improve-  ment, it could be said, in general, that the organiza-  tion and func.ioning of the National Commissions were  satisfactory. It had to be remembered, however,  that in Europe several regional organizations wielded  an influence over Member States which Unesco could  not ignore, It had to maintain its influence in a  region which was the scene of very ‘moortant internal  developments, all the more so because European  representation on Unesco did not coincide with the  membership of the organizations referred to. After  recalling that certain European countries not  represented on the Committee were closely interested  in this proposal, the Assistant Director-General said,  in conclusion, that the motives behind it were political  rather than technical; 1t was for the Conference to  say what should be done.
(54) The CHAIRMAN said that a vote had to be taken,  first on the proposal of the delegate of Norway,  seconded by the United Kingdom, to delete the activi-  ties in paragraphs 7 and 9 and, if that were adopted,  on the proposal of the delegate of Israel, seconded  by the delegate of the German Federal Republic, to  retain the funds for other activities in the Division,
(55) Mr. CABOUAT (France) put forward a third  proposal, If the project for a European conference  were accepted, it would be wiser to hnld the con-  ference in 1956, as it would then be able to discuss  the draft programme to be submitted to the General  Conference at its ninth session, If it were held in
1955, it would have to limit itself to the current  programme and to general considerations.
(56) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  agreed that the proposal made by the delegate of  France was a good one, but he pointed out that  it raised a problem; tine project, as proposed,  drew the attention of the proposed conference to  methods of implemen.’ ng the programme, whereas  the French delegate's proposal directed it to-  wards the study of future programmes. The  National Commissions were, however, government  advisory bodies and Member States would have to  decide whether it was a good thing to lead them  to express their views formally on the draft  programme.   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET
(57) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) reminded the Chairman  that he had made a proposal with rega.d to paragraph
7, suggesting that the activities there mentioned  should be carried out through the Regional Offices.  That did not imply any criticism of the existing  system, but the procedure he had suggested would be  cheaper and more practical.
(58) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  mentioned that the Director-General was suggesting  a variety of methods to the Conference so that the  latter could decide which it preferred. The proposal  for action at the national level was an alternative to  another possibility - regional co-operation. But so  far as he was concerned, there was no reason of  principle for preferring one method to another; that  was a question for ccnsideration by the working party  on decentralization,
(58) The CHAIRMAN asked if the delegate of Mexico  would agree to his proposal being brought up when  the working party was established,
(60) The Mexican delegate accepted the suggestion.
(61) Mr. CABOUAT (France) explained that he had  never intended that National Commissions should be  given powers normally pertaining to governments but,  from the meetings of the French National Commission  he had attended, he had gained the impression that  the Commission would be very much interested in  having an opportunity to discuss with other National  Commissions problems it thought particularly impor-  tant. A comparison of views on the draft programme  might produce very good results,
(62) Miss LAISE (United States of America) proposed  that paragraphs 7 and 9 should be voted on separately.  With regard to paragraph 9, one of the difficulties was  perhaps that the objects of such a conference had not  been clearly defined, The United States National  Commission considered an activity of that character  necessary, since the object of developing National  Commissions was not only to create new ones but to  help existing ones to be useful to Unesco. The United  States Commission had been hampered by the fact  that its rôle was not clearly established and, if a  conference could usefully be devoted to what National  Commissions could and could not do in relation to the
1955-56 programme, it would serve a useful purpose,  She supported evaluation among National Commissions  but was in favour of the subject being discussed by  the proposed working party.
(63) The CHAIRMAN asked for a vote on the proposal  of the delegate of Norway, seconded by the United  Kingdom delegate, to delete paragraph 7.
(64) The proposal was adopted by 7 votes to 1 with
4 abstentions.
(65) A discussion ensued on the proposal of the dele-  gate of Israel that the funds released should be  retained in the Division for other activities.
(66) Mr.SOMMERFELT(Norway)understood that the  disposal of funds was to be left to the working party.    VI-15
(67) The CHAIRMAN explained that the Committee  could recommend the transfer of funds to other acti-  vities within the chapter, leaving the Director-General  to make specific proposals. The procedure would be  correct, since members had expressed views on  priorities for specific items. The Director-General  could, if necessary, make immediate proposals.
(68) Mr, MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) re-  plied in the neg~tive to the Chairman's last point and  in the affirmative to his opening remarks. The Director  General's position was clear: he received the right,  according to the Committee's recommendations, to  make any subsequent proposals likely to help the  Committee or the Programme Commission in its  work, The Chairman was righ’ :n saying that the  Con.mittee could properly recommend the transfer of  funds within any g:ven chapter, but the Secretariat  was not in a position to make immediate, practical  proposals for the use of the sum thus made available.
(69) The CHAIRMAN was opposed to leaving the  matter open; if no decision were taken, an unalloca-  ted sum would be left on completion of the examination  of the programme and budget.
(70) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) considered that,  as the Committee was acting in a programme and a  budgetary capacity, it could assign funds in general  terms to the section and defer proposals on their  specific purposes.
(71) Turning to general considerations, one of the  difficulties in Unesco's work had often been said to  be the inactivity of National Commissions, The  problem should therefore be one of Unesco's major  considerations, even if inactivity were due to circum-  stances outside the Secretariat and the Conference.He  would propose a higher priority, in respect of both  finance and status, to the question of National Com-  missions, which were an instrument for judging the  success of Unesco's work,
(72) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) was in complete  agreement with the Egyptian delegate on the impor-  tance of the work of National Commissions. With  regard to the vote on the delegate of Israel's proposal,  he was not sure that it was necessary for funds to be  spent within the Division in order to achieve the  desired ol jective; they could, for example, be used  to increase the expenditure for staff travel under dif-  ferent chapters to enable heads of Departments to  visit National Commissions, He was reluctant to vote  a sum for unspecified activities.
(73) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) asked if the Secretariat  could prepare a document setting out the functions,  scope and place of National Commissions in Unesco's  programme and stating why it was considered they  had not developed as had been originally hoped.
(74) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)asked  the delegate of India if he would be satisfied with a  preliminary document; the Secretariat would be able  to make a full analysis and submit a constructive  report on the matter in 1955-56. The Director-  General needed directives from the General Confer-  ence and the purpose of the project submitted had been  - 743 -   vi-15 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  to evoke those. He was sorry to say that it was im-  possible tc. make a proper critical assessment  immediately.
(75) The CHAIRMAN thought it would be preferable  to rely on Secretariat participation in the working  party and not ask for a document.
(75) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) proposed that the Commit-  tze should recommend that the amount in question be  assigned to general purposes in aiding Member States  to strengthen their National Commissions.
(77) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) regretted that  the suggestion did not solve hs difficulty.
(78) The proposal of the delega.e of Israe!,seconded  by the delegate of the German Federal Republic, that  the sum of $13,000 released under paragraph 7 be  retained in the project for activities in the develop-  ment of National Commissions was put to the vote and  adopted by 9 votes to 2 with 1 abstention.
(79) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) proposed, and the Commit-  tee agreed, that the following words should be  inserted after "headquarters" in paragraphs 6 and 12:  "and/or National Commissions".
(80) The Committee then voted on the Norwegian  delegate's proposal, seconded by the United Kingdom  delegate, to delete paragraph 9. The proposal was  adopted by 7 votes to 1 with 3 abstentions,
(81) Mr. CABC LAT (France) did not press for a  vote on his proposal, but pointed out that it related  to the same conference, except that it would have  been held in 1956.
(82) The CHAIRMAN asked for a vote on the proposal  of the delegate of Israel, seconded by the delegate of  the German Federal Republic, that the sum of  $20,000 available under paragrcph 9, be retained for  the purpose of developing National Commissions,
(83) The proposal was adopted by 8 votes to 2 with 1  abstention.
(84) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) sup-  posed that the decision taken on paragraph 6 applied  to paragraph 12, which also related to visits by  Secretaries of National Commissions to the Organi-  zation's headquarters, and that the total budget was  therefore $26,000 instead of $13,000,
(85) The CHAIRMAN asked for a vote on the Egyptian  delegate's proposal, seconded by the delegate of the  United States of America, to accord a high priority  to the development of National Commissions,
(86) The proposal was adopted by 9 votes to 1 with 1  abstention,
(87) Mr. CABOUAT (Rapporteur) summed up the  results of the voting on project 7.1: the project  as a whole had been allotted a high priority;  the whole of the proposed appropriations stood  sub-paragraphs (b) and (d) were deleted.
(88) The CHAIRMAN confirmed that the Rapporteur  summary was correct,  New York Office (Part III, Chepter 1), paragraph 13
(89) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) said  there had been no appreciable changes, The staff for  which provision was made in 1955-56 was the same as  the existing staff. He wished to remind the Commit-  iee of the comments of the Chairman of the Executive  Board, which were borne out by what he had seen for  himself. The many and, in the aggregate, heavy  functions carried out by the New York Office were not  always appreciated, and the only criticism which  could be made of the budget estimates was that they  were too conservative, too modest, He recalled that  the Office had nothing to do with decentralization; it  was a liaison office between the United Nations and  Unesco,
(90) In reply to a question from the United Kingdom  delegate, Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Pro-  gramme and Budget) said that the two upgradings in  the Professional category were reclassifications  through increase of work,
(91) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) men-  tioned that the Director-General, in view of the  increased volume of work, had a choice between two  possible courses - maintaining posts at the existing  level and establishing an additional post, or increas-  ing the responsibilities of existing posts without  establishing 2 new post, The latter course had been  adopted as being more economical.
(92) Discussion on the New York Office being con-  cluded, the CHAIRMAN asked the Chief of Bureau of  Personnel and Management if he was ready to supply  the information asked for at the previous meeting,
(93) Mr. FARR (Chief, Bureau of Personnel and  Management), referring to paragraph 39 of Part IV  of the programme and budget, said that he had some  information on the practice in other Specialized  Agencies, but was waiting for additional information  from the New York Office,
(94) It was agreed to defer discussion until complete  facts were available,
(95) Miss LAISE (United States of America) asked  whether the promised information on reclassifications  was available, as she could not submit a proposal  without information on the General Services category.  With regard to the suggested average for the Profes-  sional category, she would like to suggest P-2,9,  based on the averages quoted for Unesco, the United  Nations, WHO and FAO. In the meantime, in con-  nexion with the amount of $73,000 for reclassifica-  tions for 1955-56, she asked what was the total cost  of within-grade increments in the same period,
(96) The CHAIRMAN understood that it had been  agreed to accept the Director-General's average  for the General Services category as being  between grades D and E.  - 744 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON
(97) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) was puzzled by  the United States delegate 's proposal. He considered  that the system of working on an average grade was  administratively impracticable and wondered how, if  adopted, it could be put into practice, He asked  whether it was used in other agencies.
(98) Mr. FARR (Chief, Bureau of Perscnnel and  Management) said that the United Nations and all the  Specialized Agencies kept a careful watch on the  tendency for grading patterns in their secretariats to  become higher. He was not, however, aware of any  action to lay down methods of control, except that the  Fifth Committee of the United Nations Assombly, on  receipt of the Secretary-General‘s proposals ‘or  upgrading, had reduced the amount available. The  Director-General's proposal had been for the Com-  mittee to set an average grade rather than deal with  the matter in terms of finance. In maintaining the  average, he would consider the administrative struc-  ture of divisions where upgradings were proposed,  and make equivalent downgradings if necessary.
(99) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) was still  sceptical of the procedure and considered it too  arbitrary. Uresco's Constitution gave the Director-  General complete freedom of action in staffing and,  having appointed a Director-General, it was not  advisable to restrict his actions in that respect,
(100) Miss LAISE (United States of America) said  that she too had been sceptical, but had made her  suggestion in view of the wishes expressed by the  Director-General, She still wished for the informa-  tion she had requested and also asked whether the 86  reclassifications had been taken into account when  calculating the within-grade increases for 1955-56.
(101) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau c° Programme  and Budget) said that within-grade increments had  increased by $319,027 in 1955-56 over 1953-54, and  he confirmed that the 86 reclassifications had been  taken into account. An amount of 6% was deducted  from the budget for established posts in each depart-  ment to allow for turnover and lapses in recruiting  for new posts.  PROGRAMME AND BUDGET     VI-16
(102) Miss LAISE (United Staies of America) pro-  posed that the amount of $73,000 for reclassifications  should be reduced to $50,000.
(103) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  wished to know whether it was the intention of the  delegate of the United States of America that the  proposed reduction should be made specifically on  reclassified posts, or was it to be spread over all the  appropriations for established posts? Did she agree  to a reduction of $23,000 in the whole budget for  established posts, as a gesture?
(104) Miss LAISE (United States of America) accepted  the Assistant Director-General's interpretation of  her proposal,
(105) Mr, BOW (Canada) remarked that the Director-  General would still be free to increase the proportion  of high-grade posts if he so wished.
(106) The CHAIRMAN said that, while that would be  the budgetary effect, the Director-General would no  doubt wish to take account of the considerations  behind the proposal and not make reclassifications on  a large scale.
(107) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  confirmed that opinion and thanked the delegate of the  United States of America for her understanding of his  question,
(108) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) said that, in  the light of possible proposals to reduce the budget,  it would be advisable to examine the summary by  object of expenditure in Annex V of the programme  and budget to see if cuts could be made in the major  items. Staff costs being a major item, he supported  the proposal of the delegate of the United States of  America.
(109) The proposal of the United States delegate,  seconded by the United Kingdom delegate, was  adopted by 7 votes to nil with 3 abstentions,  The meeting rose at 12.50 p.m.  SIXTEENTH MEETING
10 November 1954 at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman : Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Australia)  ITEM 7.2 OF THE AGENDA: PRELIMINARY CONEIDERATION  OF THE DRAFT PROGRAMME AND BUDGET FOR 1953-36,  BEFORE THE OPENING OF THE SESSION (continued)
(1) The CHAIRMAN announced that, before the  meeting could proceed to the discussion of the  draft resolutions, a few general questions re-  mained to be cleared up. He therefore  asked if the delegate of Israel wished to  comment on the general matter of subventions.  - 745 -