6 December 1954 at 4.30p.m  Chairman: Mr. KABIR (!ndia)  NOMINATION OF CANDIDATES FOR MEMBERSHIP OF THE  EXECUTIVE BOARD (documents 8C/JUR/2, 8C/JUR/S,
8C/NOM/35 8C/DIV/133 and 8C/DIV/ 140)
(1) The CHAIRMAN reminded the Nominations  Committee that the purpose of the meeting was to  discuss the procedure for the election of members  of the Executive Board. That procedure, set forth  in document 8C/DIV/ 133, had just been partiuily  amended by the adoption of document 8C/JUR/5 by  the General Conference in plenary session. The  Committee would not vote on nominations until the  following morning (7 December). He asked if that  procedures would be acceptable to the Committee.
(2) The procedure proposed by the Chairman was  approved,
(3) At the request of Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece), Mr.  SABA (Legal Adviser) read Article V of the  Constitution, as amended, relating to the Executive  Board.
(4) The CHAIRMAN asked if the Committee would  agree not to have any discussion on the merits of  individual candidates or countries,
(5) Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland) agreed entirely  with the Chairman's suggestion, but asked whether  he might apprise the Committee of a letter he had  received from Mr. Piaget, a candidate for the  Executive Board,
(6) Speaking on a point of order, Mr. TUNCEL  (Turkey) asked whether the Committee would, before  voting, discuss document 8C/DIV/140, relating to the  geographical distribution of seats among Member  States.
(7) Replying to the delegate of Turkey, the CHAIRMAN  explained that the relevant document would be  considered as soon as th: question of procedure had  been settied, On the subject of the letter from  Professor Piaget, he feared that to allow his message  to be read would open tne door to other communica-  tions relating to individual candidates, He therefore  wondered if the delegate of Switzerland would be    kind enough to refvain from pressing his point,
(8) Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland) explained that he  had no intention of going into Mr. Piaget's merits;  he merely wished to inform the Committee of a  personal communication from Mr. Piaget, giving the  reasons for his absence and explaining his views  regarding Unesco.
(8) Mr. CABOUAT (France) asked that Mr. Bourgeois  be authorized to read the communication from an  absent candidate. If other delegations wished to  present other official communications likely to  influence the voting, it was the time to bring them  forward too.
(10) Mr, MIGONE {Italy) supported Mr. Cabouat's  proposal,
(11) Mr. BERNAL JIMENEZ (Colombia) saw no  reason why the letter should not be read, since it  related to a person so important as Professor Piaget.  He thought, however, that it would be difficult later  to refuse the same right to other candidates who were  prevented from being present at the session or felt it  would be unsuitable for them ‘to attend, but who might  also wish to make written communications to the  Committee.
(12) The CHAIRMAN decided to put the matter to  the vote.
(13) The French proposal that the Committee hear  the communication from Professor Piaget was  adopted by 30 votes to 1, with 20 absientions.
(14) Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland) read the  following passages from Mr. Piaget's letter:  Princeton, December 1954  "Although the General Conference has modified  the structure of the Executive Board, this decision  has naturally not altered my attitude towards  Unesco. I had agreed to stand again for election to  - 874 -   NOMINATIONS  the Board, and I stand b: my agreement, since our  Government and my friends of the Swiss delegation  are good enough to place their confidence in me -  for which I am infinitely grateful,  I regret that I am unable to be among you on this  occasion, Invited by the Princeton Institute to spend  two years here in order to finish a job with the help  of the mathematicians of this famous School, I was  able to accept a stay of only three months, and my  obligations in Geneva and at the Sorbonne made it  imperative that I should take these three months  precisely this auturnn when | should have liked to be  in Montevideo.  So I should be most grateful if you would explain  and excuse my absence to all my friends, whom 1  should not like to disappoint, Despite appearances  and the circumstances I have just mentioned, I am  atill as anxious as ever to work with the Organization,  whose shortcomings and growing pains have never  prevented us from believing in it and its great future.
(15) It was unanimously agreed that there should be  no discussion of individual candidates.
(18) The Committee then considered document
8C/DIV/140.
(17) Mr. TUNCEL (Turkey) considered that  document 8C/DIV/140 was already out of date. The  Turkish delegation had studied it closely, particu-  larly as it dealt with a question which had been  discussed in Turkey's last two reports to Unesco.  In its relations with (he Unesco Secretariat,  Turkey was at the moment regarded as one of the  European countries,
(18) Turkey, however, in the document, was  included in Group B. In spite of its close relations  with the other countries in that group, Turkey wished,  by reason of its membership of the Council of  Europe and its relations with Unesco, to be  included in Group À.
(19, Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) pointed out that  document 8C/DIV/140 was not intended to define  "regions". It was a tentative arrangement, taking  into account the distribution in the past. Mr. Saba  added that, for the purposes of the Secretariat's work,  Turkey was at the moment included in the European  group.
(20) Mr. TUNCEL (Turkey) was quite satisfied with  Mr. Saba's statement, but asked for Turkey to be  included in Group A for the Executive Board elections.
(21) The CHAIRMAN considered that the Committee  was in agreement with the Turkish delegate's proposal.
(22) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) stressed that the  Committee was an adviscry body and asked how many  of the candidates for the Executive Board were persons  competent in the arts, the humanities, science,  education and the diffusion of ideas, within the meaning  of Article V, A, 2 of the Constitution.    COMMITTEE vi-3
(23) The CHAIRMAN was sure that members of the  Committee would bear the remarks of the delegate of  Greece in mind. He pointed out that the curriculum  vitae of each candidate was before the Committee and  that those defined their special fields of interest and  competence; clearly all c¥ndidates were eminent  personalities in their fields. All were persons of  culture.
(24) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) would have liked the  same of each candidate to be accompanied by an  indication of his specialty.
(25) Mr. HUZAYIN (Egypt) asked whether the  Nominations Committee had power to transfer :  country from one geographical group to another. He  pointed out that Turkey had been chosen more often  and for a longer time than any other country to  represent Member States of the Middle East on the  Board, His delegation very much hoped that Turkey  would continue to feel that she belonged to that  geographical area.
(26) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) pointed out that the  document in question did not bind the Committee in  any way. It had been drawn up at the request of the  General Committee, which wanted to have a list in  accordance with the recommendations made by the  Programme Commission at the sixth session. There  was no official definition of regions; the document  merely gave indications on the bas:s of what had  been done in the past.
(27; Mr. TUNCEL (Turkey) pointed out that since the  previous year Turkey had been included in the  European group for the purposes of the Secretariat.
(28) Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) considered that there  could be no objection to the contentions of the Turkish  delegation. Moreover, a strictly geographical  distribution was not enough; the main factor to  consider was cultural grouping.
(29) Mr. TUNCEL (Turkey) stressed that the problem  was solely that of the relations between Turkey and  Unesco. Turkey wanted those relations to be  maintained through the "European unit. Mr. Tuncel  had no wish to go into the definition of the geographical  region of the Middle East, and stated that Turkey,  whose territories were situated in both Europe and  Asia, could freely choose to be included in the  European group for the purposes of its relations  with Unesco,
(30) The CHAIRMAN announced that the two  following candidatures had beer withdrawn: Mr,  Diaz Samayoa (Guatemala) and Mr, Al-Hilli (Iraq).  There thus remained thirty candidates.
(31) The ballot would take place the following  morning, 7 December, at 10 a.m.
(32) Mr. SANDOVAL VALLARTA (Mexico) wished  for clarification of a point regarding electoral  procedure which was obscure in the Rules of  - 875 -   Vii-3 NOMINATIONS  Procedure. Rule 95, read with Rule 89, which had  been amended that afternoon, stipulated that the  majority for election was 50 per cent plus 1 of the  votes cast. Half the number of votes might not be  an integer, for example, half 41, would Le 20 1/2.  According to generally recognized parliamentary  practice, it would be necessary to take the nearest  whole number above, and accordingly, in the case  he had instanced, 22 votes would be required for  election. The Mexican delegate asked if that  interpretation was correct.
(33) Mr, SABA (Legal Adviser) endorsed that  interpretation. Supposing that 61 votes were cast,  half of that figure would be 30,5, and the majority  required would be 32,
(34) Mr. BERNAL JIMENEZ (Colombia) desired  that, before rising, the meeting should take note of  a statement by the group of Latin American countries  and perhaps svoscribed to by the United States of  America and Canada; while geographical and  cultural distribution was a criterion commonly  adopted for elections, it was unfavourable to the  American continent because it did not take into  account the proportion of countries included in that  continent nor the importance of its culture.
(35) Tne American countries might have hoped that  when the number of members of the Executive Board  was increased to 22, they would be allowed a larger  representation on it.
(36) The question had been studied very unselfishly  and the American countries were willing that other  continents should have a larger number of members  on the Board so that Europe and Asia would be better  represented, That did not mean that in the future  distribution of seats on the Board which would  certainly be made at the next session of the General  Uonference, the American continent should not be  given the proportion of Executive Board members  tc which it was entitled.
(37) The countries of America had taken that  decision in the hope that it would lead to closer  understanding between all the peoples and abate  regional self-interest; it wes for that reason that  America was prepa: ed to give the advantage to the  peoples of Europe and Asia.
(38) The Colombian delegate asked that his statement  should appear in the record.
(39) The CHAIRMAN was sure that all delegations  would appreciate the spirit of generosity shown by the  countries of the American continent Their gesture  would not of course serve as a precedent, as each  session of the General Conference was inaependent  of the others.
(40) Mr, SPILHAUS (United States of America)  reverted to the definition of a simple majority. The  Legal Adviser had said that, if there were 61 valid  votes, ithe majority required would be 32; the  minority, however, would then be 29 and there would  be a difference of three voies between the two.
(41) Mr, SABA (Legal Adviser) while appreciating  the United States.delegate's point, stressed that under    COMMITTEE  the terms of Rule 17 (new Rule 16) of the Rules for  the Conduct of Elections by Secret Ballot, as amended  "Fifty per cent plus one of the votes recorded shall  constitute the majority required...". If the number  of votes cast was 61, fifty per cent plus Due of that  figure would be 31.5. Mr. Saba also pointed out that  the procedure of drawing lots if votes were equally  divided, which was already in force at the United  Nations, had been adopted.  ,
(42) Mr. SPILHAUS (United States of America) vas  perfectly .atisfied with the legality of the  in.erpretation, but not with the wisdom of it.
(43) Mr. RUIZ-GIMENEZ (Spain) had wished to speak  immediately after the statement by the Colombian  delegate. The debate had then turned to legal ques-  tions. He wished, however, to record his satisfaction  and gratitude for the geierous action of the American  countries and asked that it should be taken into  consid- ration at the next General Conference.
(44) In order to avuid any doubt on the matter, Mr,  SANDOVAL VALLARTA (Mexico) again asked the  Legal Adviser whether fractions were to count as  whole votes, i.e. whether half counted as a whole.
(45) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) replied  affirmatively.
(46) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) wanted to know what  would happer if the result of the ballot was 31 votes  to 30. There would not be an equal division of votes,  and lots could not be drawn as laid down in document
8C/JUR/S.
(47) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) admitted that in such  a case there would be no need to draw lots. As from  the third ballot, a candidate obtaining 31 votes against
30 could be regarded as elected.
(48) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) thought that it would  be well, at the ninth session of the Conferer-e, tc  propose an amendment to the provisions concerned in  order to remove any ambiguity,
(49) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) considered that it  would be more satisfactory to regard 31 votes to 30  as constituting a majority even if the figure was not,  mathematically, fifty per cent of the votes recorded  plus one,
(50) Mr. MONTAGNIER (Secretary of the Conference),  replying toMr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland), said that the.  Committee mei in camera only if it decided so to do.
(51) The proposal to hold the next meeting of  the Nominations Committee in the main Conference  Hall was adopted by 34 votes to 0, with10  abstentions.  The meeting rose at 5.50 p.m.  - 876 -