x-8 COMMITTEE ON REPORTS OF MEMBER STATES  Unesco. Keen interest had been displayed in  seminars and conferences. Much progress was also  recorded in the field of adult education.
(44) The report of Iraq reflected the energetic  efforts of the authorities to implement the aims of  Unesco, more particularly in the field of primary  education, where impressive resulte were being  achieved, Iraq had shown great interest, and had  participated, in almost every cultural conference  and seminar organized by Unesco. With the help of  a Unesco mission a vigorous approach had been  made to the problems of adult and fundamental  education,
(45) The report of Israel indicated the existence    of a highly organized and very active National  Commission. A particularly interesting aspect of  its work was noted in connexion with the use of the  media of mass communication to give publicity to  the work and auns of Unesco,
(46) The CHAIRMAN thanked the representatives of  Turkey, the United States of America and South  Africa for their reports, which provided a valuable  contribution to the study of the matter under  consideration. The first stage of the Committee's  work had been completed.  The meeting rose at 5.45 p.m.  EIGHTH MEETING
24 November 1954 at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman : Mr. AL-HANI (Iraq)  {1} The CHAIRMAN invited the delegate of the  United States of America to introduce his proposals  for the Committee's report.
(2) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  asked if he might first submit his comments on the  report of the Brazilian Government.  ITEM 10.2 OF REVISED AGENDA: CONSIDERATION OF  REPORTS PRESENTED BY MEMnER STATES FOR :9°2-53  (continued)
(3) Mr. McCullough said that the report of the  Brazilian Government which had been presented in  six sections in accordance with the Director-  General's suggestions, showed intensified co-  operation between Brazil and the Secretariat of  Unesco during the past two years. Of especial  interest was an account of the efforts of the  Brazilian Institute of Education, Science and Culture  (which was acting as the National Commission) to  publicize the Declaration of Human Rights. The  work of the Institute had been greatly stimulated by  visits from members of the Secretariat, in  particular, the Director-General and the Assistant  Director-General.
(4) The headquarters of the National Commission  was set up in 1952, with a documentation service,  and during that year the secretary had spent four  months at Unesco headquarters. A budget had been  provided ior the secretariat of the National  Commission since 1953.
(5) Activities included the issue of a monthly  bulletin, a number of publications (listed in the  report) and co-operation with commissions in other  States of Brazil - an interesting experiment in    State co-operation in a country with a decentralized  government.
(6) The activities of the National Commission and  the Brazilian Government on behalf of Unesco had  shown a steady increase during the two years under  review.  ITEM 10.4 OF REVISED AGENDA: REPORT TO THE  GENERAL CONFERENCE
(7) Turning to the question of the Committee's  report, Mr. McCullough said that the suggestions he  had to offer were not intended as a draft, but were  ideas which, if approved by the Committee, might  serve as a basis for the Secretary and the Rapporteur  in preparing the report. Their adoption would  necessitate some modification of resolution 60 of the  seventh session of the General Conference.  Form and Content of the Reports
(8) Mr. McCullough said that, in the first place, it  was essential to find a more efficient method of work  for the Committee. To that end he hoped that for the  next General Conference the Secretariat would be  able to prepare an analysis of the reports so that the  Committee would not have to spend time on a detailed  study of the individual reports but would be able to  start immediately on its real task of formulating  proposals to guide the Conference in framing  policies relating to Member States.
(9) As to the form in which Member States should  submit their next set of reports, he proposed that  they should be in four main sections, with two  obligatory annexes. The four sections would  contain: (1) an introductory comment; (2) information  - 820 -   COMMITTEE ON REPORTS OF MEMBER STATES  on action taken to implement the resolutions of the  seventh and eighth sessions of the General  Conference (formerly Section 4); (3) 'nformation on  measures to establish, promote and assist the  National Commission or other co-operating bodies,  and a survey of their activities (formerly Section 5);
(4) information on measures to assist and develop  other organizations ard associate the appropriate  national groups or ins‘-rutes with the execution of  Unesco's programme (fo merly Section 6). The  obligatory annexes would deal with the most  important changes in laws and regulations affecting  education, science and culture (formerly Section 2);  and action taken on international conventions and  recommendations adopted by the General Conference  (formerly Section 3).
(10) A specific outline should be provided by the  Secretariat for those annexes in order to permit the  Member States to submit their information in a  uniform way, which would be of greatest use to the  Secretariat and to each other.
(11) Miss BISHOP (United Kingdom) agreed that the  task of the Committee was not to conduct a detailed  examination of the reports, but to draw conclusions  from them, She therefore supported the proposal  that the Secretariat should be responsible for  studying the reports and pointed out that a change of  procedure for the Committee would be involved.
(12) Mr. TUNCEL (Turkey) thought that the  Committee agreed in general with the United States  proposals, which could be usefully inserted in the  Committee's final report.
(13) He had however additional suggestions to make.  The Committee might with advantage be enlarged,  as he had already recommended on behalf of the  Turkish delegation during the general discussion of  the Director-General's report. The Committee  should be 1n a position to play a more important  rôle and give effective help to the Executive Board  in drawing up the draft programme.
(14) Member States' reports were a valuable source  of information on their real needs and should be  taken into consideration in planning the draft  programme. He was therefore in favour of  increasing the membership of the Committee and  widening its competence.
(15) Mr. HONG HOEUNG DOEUNG (Cambodia)  seconded the Turkish delegate's proposals, since in  his view the programme should primarily be based  on Member States' reports, The Committee should  perhaps meet a few days before the opening of the  Conference, in accordance with the practice adopted  for the Advisory Committee on Programme and  Budget.
(16) The CHAIRMAN asked for comments on the  proposal of the Turkish delegate that the  Committee's membership be increased and its  powers extended.
(17) Mr. HONG HOEUNG DOEUNG (Cambodia)  said that he entirely agreed with the proposals for  increasing the membership of the Commi{* und  adding to its powers.    - 921 -
(18) In reply to the CHAIRMAN, Mr. TUNCEL  (Turkey) suggested that the number of members of  the Committee be increased from, say, 11 to 18.
(19) Miss BISHOP (United Kingdom} asked the  delegate of Turkey what would be the advantage of  increasing the membership of the Committee. She  doubted its efficacy in ensuring attendance at  meetings, since many delegations found it difficult  to supply members for all the working bodies of the  Conference,
(20) Mr. TUNCEL (Turkey) thought that a larger  Committee would find it easier to go through  Member States' reports, In the current year the  Committee had been in some difficulty owing to the  increased number of reports to be reviewed. His  proposal had the purely practical object of allowing  a more penetrating analysis of Member States"  reports,
(21) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United States of Ax. :rica)  said that the proposal of the Turkish delegate touched  on one of Unesco's main problems, which was how  to secure an objective account of the way in which  Member States implemented Conference resolutions.  With regard to the review of work by Member States,  it was inevitable that members should emphasize  achievements rather than omissions.
(22) If a more important function could be  formulated for the Committee, especially with  regard to National Commissions and Member States,  its status would be enhanced in the eyes of the  Conference and delegations would be obliged to  appoint members.
(23) Mr. TUNCEL (Turkey) asked for the  Secretariat's opinion,
(24) Mrs. MALTERRE (Secretary of the Committee)  thought that the increase in the membership of  Unesco made it reasonable to contemplate enlarging  the Committee. It might therefore be advisable to  bring in two or three more members.
(25) Mr. TUNCEL (Turkey) suggested that, to avoid  causing the Conference any anxiety, the Committee  should recommend increasing its membership to  fifteen.
(26) The delegate of Ecuador supported that  proposal.
(27) In reply to Mr, HONG HOEUNG DOEUNG  (Cambodia), Mrs. MALTERRE (Secretary of the  Committee) said that the volume containing the  reports received by the Secretariat within the time-  limit was sent to governments seven weeks before  the Conference opened, but the main question to be  settled was that of reports arriving late. The  Committee knew from experience the difficulties to  which that gave rise, and a solution would be all the  more necessary if the Secretariat was to be asked  to make a more thorough preliminary analysis of  the reports.
(28) Mr. TUNCEL (Turkey) was averse to taking a   X-8 COMMITTEE ON REPORTS OF MEMBER STATES  decision with regard to reports received late. There  was always such a possibility, but it should be  regarded as exceptional and no provision should be  made for it in advance.
(29) Mrs. MALTERRE (Secretary of the Committee)  felt that attention should nevertheless be drawn to  the need for observing the time-limit, since the  Secretariat would otherwise be unable to make the  proposed analysis of the reports and the Committee  itself would have to review late reports, as it was  doing that year.
(30) The CHAIRMAN thought it would be helpful to  insist upon the time-limit being observed, and asked  whether the Committee would agree to insert a  recommendation to that effect in its report.
(31) Mr. TUNCEL (Turkey) pointed out that the  Committee was responsible for an exhaustive  analysis of the reports; and he felt it would be  better not to spend too much time on the question of  late reports. He was not however, opposed to  inserting in the report a recommendation on the  observance of the time-limit.  {32) Reverting to the Cambodian delegate's  proposal, which he willingly supported, he feared  that in practice it might prove very difficult for  Member States to send representatives to  Committee meetings before the General Conference  opened.
(33) Mrs. MALTERRE (Secretary of the Committee)  thought it would be possible to convene the Committee  in the very first days of the session so that it could  circulate its report to the Programme and Budget  Commission at an early date, before submitting at  in plenary session.
(34) Mr. HONG HOEUNG DOEUNG (Cambodia)  agreed with that solution on condition that the  Programme and Budget Commission only met after  the Committee for the review of Member States"  reports.
(35) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  said that it would assist the work of the Committee.  at the next Conference if the fifteen members could  be designated before the end of the present  Conference, and if each country would undertake to  reply to the Director-General's letter, sent  together with his observations on the reports of  Member States, and submit proposals for the  Committee's agenda.
(36) The proposals of the delegates of Turkey and  the United States of America were approved.
(37) On the proposal of the United States delegate,  it was further agreed to include the following  sentence in the Committee's report: "The  Committee notes with satisfaction the increased  number of reports received on time this year and  urges Member States to comply with the regulations”.
(38) The discussion having reverted to the form of  future reports, Mr. TUNCEL (Turkey) recalled that    in Section 2 of the plan proposed by the Director-  General (document 8C/4, rage 5), Member States  were invited to supply "information on the most  important changes made in laws and regulations  relating to education, science and culture”. In most  of the reports the following note appeared tn Section
2: "The information supplied under ths heading has  been sent to the Clearing House of the Department  of Education in Unesco".
(30) As those reports were finally intended for the  general public, he thought that Member States should  treat that part of their report with the attention it  deserved.
(40) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  agreed that it was essential to retain in the reports  a compilation of information on the most important  changes in laws and regulations affecting education,  science and culture, and also that the Committee  should be given a summary of the contents of that  part of the report. He had proposed 1t as a separate  annex because of its importance and because 1t did  not fit into the framework of the first four sections.
(41) Mr. TUNCEL (Turkey) explained that he was  willing to agree to the information in question  appearing as an annex, or in any other form in  reports framed in accordance with the new plan  that had been suggested,
(42) Mrs. MALTERRE (Secretary of the Committee)  pointed out that the reasons for deleting Section 2  were set out in the introduction to the volume  containing Member States’ reports. The available  appropriations were insufficient to allow publication  of the total content of reports in one volume and it  had therefore been necessary to pass the information  under Section 2 to the Clearing House of the Education  Department. She added that Member States had been  requested to keep their reports within 5 to 15 pages  of typescript, but in many cases they had greatly  exceeded those limits.
(43) The CHAIRMAN asked for a decision regarding  the four sections proposed in Part 1 of the United  States delegate's suggestions.
(44) Approved.
(45) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  pointed out that the four sections (with the two  annexes) were equivalent to the six sections under  the Director-General's existing plan.
(46) Mrs. MALTERRE (Secretary of the Committee)  asked whether the Committee wished the compulsory  annexes to be published in the same volume as the  reports or as separate documents. A budgetary  problem was involved.
(47) Mr. TUNCEL (Turkey) thought it necessary to  limit the length of reports. If all Member States  kept within the fixed limits, it should be possible to  avoid the difficulties of publication and yet have  availabie all the information required.
(48) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  - 922 -   COMMITTEE ON REPORTS OF MEMBER STATES X-8  supported the Turkish deiegate's plea for the size  of reports to be limited. As, however, it might be  difficult for Member States to condense that  information in the reports ‘hemselves, he proposed  that it be contained in compulsory annexes, with  summaries of them prepared by the Secretariat  and incorporated in its analysis of the reports.
(49) nir. TUNCEL (Turkey) urged that the annexes  too should be as short as possible.
(50) Mr. HONG HOEUNG DOEUNG (Cambodia),  while agreeing that the number of pages should be  limited, pointed out that that might inconvenience  Member States who wanted a little more space.  The necessary funds might be found in, for example,  the budget of the Department of Mass Communication,  where some publications seemed to overlap with  others.
(51) Mrs. MALTERRE (Secretary of the Committee)  recalled that the sums intended for the publication  of Member States' reports appeared in the General  Conference budget. It was impossible to take funds  from the budget of other departments.
(52) The CHAIRMAN asked for comments on the  two proposals:
1. That a limit be set to the number of pages.
2. That, if Member States exceeded the limit,  only a summary of their reports would be included.
(53) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  proposed including a suggestion in the Committee's  report that sufficient funds be available for the  publication of the reports and that the Director-  General be authorized to have summaries made  where necessary.
(54) Mr. HONG HOEUNG DOEUNG (Cambodia)  would not oppose a limitation on the number of  pages but hoped that the maximum allowed would be,  say, 15.
(55) Mrs. MALTERRE (Secretary of the Committee)  pointed out that Member States had been asked to  keep to an average of 10 pages, but all the reports  received contained at least 15. For practical  reasons, therefore, it would be better to fix a  pretty strict limit.
(56) Mr. HONG HOEUNG DOEUNG (Cambodia)  remarked that the National Commissions of small  States were anxious to obtain publicity for those of  their activities which they considered the most  interesting. Their publication funds being  inadequate, such information had to be included in  Member States' reports and an adequate number of  pages was needed for that purpose.
(57) Mrs. MALTERRE (Secretary of the Committee)  pointed out that, 1f the question were that of  prriodical reports concerning National Commissions,  there already existed in Unesco's Official Bulletin a  special section dealing with the Commissions Other  information on their activities appeared in the Courier,  Unesco Features, etc. Several Commissions  - 923 -     also published their own bulletin,
(58) Miss McPHEE (Secretariat) said that one of  the chief difficulties facing the Secretariat in  relation to Member States was the lack of information  about them and interest on their part. It was  difficult to find interesting information for the  Official Bulletin, and, if reports of activities were  forthcoming, the Secretariat would be glad to  publish them in the Official Bulletin and in the  Courier and the Radio Review.
(59) Mr. HONG HOEUNG DO.LUNG (Cambodia)  pointed out that many National Commissions had  been founded very recently and often had no news to  publish. It might be a useful suggestion that the  Official Bulletin should publish, in the issue preceding  the opening of the Conference, fuller information on  the work of the various National Commissions.
(60) After mentioning that the problem of periodical  news about the activities of National Commissions  was entirely different from that of Member States!"  reports, Mrs. MALTERRE (Secretary of the  Committee) said that, as editor of Unesco's  Official Bulletin, she would be glad to publish in it  any news from National Commissions,
(61) Mr. TUNCEL (Turkey), reverting to the  question of the size of reports, suggested that the  limits laid down for the present session of the  Conference be retained. It could, however, be  stated, without causing inconvenience, that the  maximum number of pages should be between 10  and 15.
(62) The CHAIRMAN summarized the points on which  the Committee had agreed: 1. That reports from Mem-  ber States should not exceed 15 pages. 2, That, if any  Member State exceeded the limit, the Secretariat had  the right to summarize that report. 3. That the two  annexes should be issued as separate documents,  Action Reported by Member States
(63) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  said that his first proposals dealt with procedures  and the form of reports. Those that followed  represented conclusions reached after studying the  reports of Member States submitted to the present  session of the General Conference and concerned  the links between the Secretariat and Member States  and the need for Membea States to assume greater  responsibilities,
(64) He suggested that the following points should  be emphasized in the Committee's report:
1. The need for continuous communication  between the Secretariat and Member States and the  value of reporting both failures and successes.
2. The need for closer contact between the  Secretariat and each Member State.
3. The need for greater efforts on the part of  the Secretariat and the appointment of additional  field staff to ensure closer and more effective  contact.
4. The need to concentrate effort on activities  promoting international understanding and  co-operation.   X-9
5. The need for more effort to  promote public understanding of, appreciation  of, and participation in Unesco's  work.  NINTH
29 Novembe  COMMITTEE ON REPORTS OF MEMBER STATES
(65) The Committee agreed to include tne foregoing  five suggestions in its report.  The meeting rose at 6.0 p.m.  MEETING  r 1954 at 3.30p.m.  Chairman : Mr. AL-HANI (Iraq)
(1) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL regretted that he had  not been able to attend all the meetings of the  Committee. He greatly appreciated its work and  in particular approved the general trend of the  conclusions it had reached. Since a new tendency  of the Organization was to pay greater attention to  the needs and activities of Member States, the  reports they submitted would acquire greater  importance. Member States, he hoped, would take  still more care in preparing them and he assured  the Committee that the Secretariat would give them  the inost detailed and thorough consideration.  ITEM 10.4 OF REVISED AGENDA: REPORT TO THE GENERAL  CONFERENCE (document 8C/REP/1 (prov.)) (continued)
(2) The CHAIRMAN invited the Committee to  consider its draft final report point by point:  Study of the Reports submitted for 1952 and 1953
(3) This section of the report was approved without  comment, except that it was recommended to  include in a footnote the list of the 58 Member States  having submitted reports.  Conclusions and Recommendations of the Committee
1. Form and contents of future reports
(4) Miss BISHOP (United Kingdom) feared that  there might be some overlapping between Section
2 and Annex II.
(5) Mrs. MALTERRE (Secretary of the Committee)  did not think Annex II overlapped with Section 2,  The latter was intended to contain general  information on the implementation of the programme  resolutions as a whole, while Annex II would deal  with only a few specific points.
2. Recommendations concerning the work of  Member States
(6) Approved.
3. Procedure for the study of future reports
(7) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  expressed a wish to submit a revised text for the  final paragraph of the draft resolution contained in  the Committee's report, which would have a bearing  on paragraph (a) of the third part of the report, He  therefore proposed that the Committee consider  first paragraphs (b), (c) and (d), and return to  paragraph (a) after approval of the text of the  draft resolution,
(8) Agreed.  Paragraph (b)
(9) Mr. HONG HOEUNG DOEUNG (Cambodia) found  the phrase "allocating, in future, sufficient funds",  a trifle vague and suggested replacing "sufficient"
(10) Mrs. MALTERRE (Secretary of the Committee)  explained that for the current year the funds were  rather too small but an increase of only some  -$1, 000 for the two coming years would suffice to  overcome the difficulties.
(11) Mr. WIDDOWSON (Union of South Africa)  thought it would be necessary to justify the request  for more funds by pointing out, for example, that  with the entry into the Organization of new States  the number of reports being submitted was steadily  increasing.
(12) Mr. HAZOUME (Rapporteur) recalled that the  Committee was not empowered to fix a figure for  increased appropriations, but it could stress the  need for such an increase.
(13) He therefore suggested that paragraph (b) be  completed by a phrase to the effect that, in  consequence of the constant increase in membership,  and, consequently, of the total volume of reports  submitted and costs of publication, the attention of  the General Conference should be drawn to the need  for adjusting the amount allotted under that head.   (14) That proposal was approved.  - 924 -