m-8 GENERAL  Copimittée on the supplementary report of the  Director-General. The questions concerning working  larguages had been settled. The only work which  remained outstanding was that on staff questions,  which would be dealt with by the Administrative Com-  mission during the following week. The Commission  tad been able to allocate the remaining meetings of  the current week to the work of the Legal Committee.
(10) As there were no comments, the CHAIRMAN  declared the report of the Chairman of the Admini-  strative Commission approved. He then called on  the Chairman of the Advisory Committee on  Programme and Budget  {11) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES said that the Committee  had completed its examination of the report of the  Expert Committee on Education for International  Understanding and Co-operation, modifying specific  points. The Committee's report was ready and he  hoped to present it to the Programme Commission  at the beginning of its morning meeting.
(12) The Advisory Committee had still to consider  various points on the remodelled programme and  would require, for that purpose, three or four  meetings in the following week.
(13) In the absence of the Chairman of the Head-  quarters Committee, Mr. Gardner Davies reported  that that Committee had discussed the main item on  its agenda at its last meeting, namely, the supple-  mentary report on the installation of an office of the  International Civil Aviation Organization at the per-  manent headquarters of Unesco. One point had  emerged clearly from the discussion, which was that  the new headquarters building must remain wholly a    COMMITTEE  Unesco building. The Committee had, however,  agreed in principle to recommend that the Director-  General should negoilate a contract with the Interna-  tional Civil Aviation Organization for the building of  a block for its u£ & andhad agreed that the Headquarters  Committee should discuss plans for such a building.
(14) Mr. HAGUIWARA wished to know whether the  Headquariers Committee had fixed a date for the com-  pletion of the new headquarters building. That date  was bound to influence the decision concerning the  meeting place of the next General Conference. How-  ever, he gathered that the Administrative Commission  had already taken a decision on that last point.
(15) Mr, GARDNER DAVIES replied that the Head-  quarters Committee expected the building to be  completed by December 1956 or January 1957.
(16) The CHAIEMAN called for comments. As there  were none, he declared the report of the Chairman of  the Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget  approved. He then called on the Secretary to outline  the programme of work for 27 and 28 November,
(17) Mr. MONTAGNIER, after listing the meetings  of 27-29 November, added that the Headquarters  Committee would need to hold another meeting to  consider the report it would be submitting to the  Administrative Commission; that meeting would  probably be scheduled for the afternoon of Wednesday,
1 December.  The meeting rose at 9.35 a. m.  EIGHTH MEETING
29 November 1954 at 9 a.m.  Chairman : Mr: ZAVALA MUNIZ (Uruguay)
(1) Opening the meeting, the CHAIRMAN called  upon the Chairman of the Administrative Commission  to make a progress report.
(2) Mr. BEEBY announced that, as the Commission  had not met since the General Committee's last  meeting, the position was still as he had stated it on  Friday morning (26 November). In the course of the  day (Monday, 28 November), the Commission would  first consider reports from the Legal Committee and  would then go on to staff questions, which would  probably require four meetings.
(3) The above verbal ruport was approved.
(4) Mr. BOURGEOIS reported that the Programme    and Budget Commission had concluded its scrutiny  of the Education chapter. He would not at the  moment describe in detail the changes made but they  were substantial, more particularly in the item on  Palestine refugees, for whom a considerably higher  appropriation wes being recommended, In all, the  Commission had approved additional appropriations  of $97, 000 in chapter 1 as a whole. Could the  Director-General say whether that figure could be  ofiset within the chapter pending the general redis-  tribution between all parts of the programme which  would follow on completion of the examination of the  remaining chapters? In conclusion he had to report  that a large majority of the Commission had no* seen  its way to accept the proposal for an International  School. At its meeting that morning the Commission  - 254 -   GENERAL  would be beginaing its scrutiny of chapter 2, Natural  Sciences.
(5) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL drew attention to à  difficult question of procedure in the Programme and  Budget Commission. He recalled his earlier sugges-  tion that, when the Commission had concluded its  examination of the chapter on Education, he should  propose all the cuts which he was willing to foresee  st that time, reserving additional cuts to be made  when all the programme chapters had been considered.  The Commission would then adopt, reject or change  the cuts he had proposed, with the aim of getting  back to the budget level in document 8C/5. Even if  all programme chapters were reduced to the 8C/5  budget level, there would still be an excess of  $200, 000 over the approved provisional budget figure.  if that sum were distributed over all the programme  chapters in accordance with the percentages allocated  to them, a cut of some $60, 000 would have to be  made in the Education chapter, As a result of the  work of the Programme and Budget Commission,  however, the Education chapter was already $987,000  in excess of the BC/5 budget level, so that, if the  percentage for each chapter were strictly followed,  a total cut of some $150,000 would have to be made  in the chapter on Education. The Programme and  Budget Commission might wish to redistribute the  percentages, but, if the Education chapter were  allowed to exceed the 8C/5 budget level by $ 150, 000,  other programme chapters might be penalized.
(8) Two alternative procedures were therefore pos-  sible: (1) the Director-General could refrain from  proposing any cuts in the Education chapter until all  chapters of the programme had been considered; or
(2) as already suggested, he could propose cuts  forthwith, with the intention of reducing the Education  chapter to the 8C/5 budget level before the other  programme chapters were examined. He added that  the Department of Natural Sciences had a very impor-  tant proposal to make in connexion with the United  Nations scheme for the use of atomic energy for  peaceful purposes.
(1) Mr. BOURGEOIS felt offhand that, as the under-  standing was that all the changes made in the  programme were provisional, it might be worth  waiting until the remaining chapters had been  examined and then reviewing the whole programme  with a view to a judicious redistribution within the  prescribed budget ceiling; probably it would be an  easier matter then. He would also like to make a  personal suggestion to the Director-General and the  General Committee of the next Conference. It might  be worth following the example of the Advisory Com-  mittee and not scrutinizing the various chapters of  the programme always in the same order. He would,  in conclusion, tell the Programme and Budget Com-  mission that the figures it had adooted would remain  provisional until the whole programme had been  examined, at which time the Commission could make  the necessary adjustments,
(8) Mr. BEEBY thought it essential that the Pro-  gramme and Budget Commissicn should be as  conscious as its Chairman of the need to keep within  à budget ceiling. If the Commission thought of    COMMITTEE 11-8  increasing any items, it should at the same time  think of other items which it was prepared to propose  for suppression.
(8) Mr. BOURGEOIS asked whether the Director-  General agreed to his telling the Commission that,  in principle, each chapter should be kept more or  less to the percentage laid down in the proposed pro-  gramme and budget and that large transfers between  chapter and chapter were undesirable.
(10) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL considered that one  of the Conference's most important tasks was to  decide whether or not the percentage allocated to  each programme chapter was appropriate. The  existing percentages were only his own proposal and  he was anxious, not only for the Conference to take  a decision in respect of the programme for 1955-56,  but also to give him guidance for the preparation of  the programme for 1857-58.
(11) Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS wondered whether the  ‘wo suggestions made were not compatible, that was  to say, the Chairman of the Programme and Budget  Commission might make the statement he had sug-  gested, and the Advisory Committee on Programme  and Budget, working parallel to the Programme and  Budget Commission, might study the cuts proposed  by the Director-General and make a statement to  help the Commission when the latter came towards  the end of its work.
(12) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES agreed that the Advisory  Committee could consider the Diréctor-Genera.'s  proposals for adjustments in the programme chapters,  but, having seen how little the Committee's advice  was followed in the Programme and Budget Commis-  sion, he doubted if it would serve any useful purpose.
(13) Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS sympathized with the  feelings of the Chairman of the Advisory Committee  on Programme and Budget, but pointed out that the  position had changed since the Chairman of the Pro-  gramme and Budget Commission had undertaken to  inform the Commission that it must work within a  budget ceiling. As it was the Advisory Committee's  task to help the Commission to do that, the experience  of the Chairman of the Committee might thenceforth  be happier.
(14) Mr. KABIR thought that the difficulty which had  arisen was inherent in the procedure followed: if  every item of the programme was brought before the  Programme and Budget Commission, it was impos-  sible to ensure that percentages were adhered to.  He agreed with the Director-General that the Com-  mission should decide upon the overall percentages,  but it should not go into every detail. He therefore  suggested that the Director-General, in consultation  with the Executive Board, might be asked to work  out a better procedure for the ninth session of the  General Conference, providing, for instance, for an  initial general debate in the Programme and Budget  Commission, when the overall percentages for the  programme chapters would be laid down.
(15) Referring to the proposal of the delegate of the
11-8 GENERAL  United Kingdom, the DIRECTOR-GENERAL did not  think it possible for the Advisory Committee to work  pa.allel to the Programme and Budget Commission.  However, when the Commission had terminated its  consideration of all the programme chapters, it could  refer the matter of cuts :o the Advisory Committee  for advice, giving it a number of general considera-  tions for its guidance. The Advisory Committee  could then work as an expert working party, and the  Director-General could be invited to make proposals  to it for cuts. The Advisory Committee might under-  take that task for a day and a half during the election  of new members of the Executive Board and, during  that time, the Programme and Budget Commission  might adjourn.  {16) Mr. BOURGEOIS fully approved the general  lines of the proposed procedure, always assuming  that the Commission had time to follow it. H the  Advisory Committee was to meet meanwhile and  report back thereafter to the Programme Commission  the latter would be obliged to complete its scrutiny  of all chapters by Wednesday, 8 December.
(17) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES said that the Advisory  Committee would accept the task, if it were possible  for the Programme and Budget Commission to com-  plete lis first examination of the programme chapters  in time.
(18) Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS moved that the Com-  mittee approve the procedure suggested by the  Director-General, even if it meant that the  Programme and Budget Commission was obliged to  hold night meetings.
(19) Mr. BOURGEOIS had no objection to night mee-  tings and had warned his Commission that they might  be necessary if there were too many speakers and  they talked too long.
(20) Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS said that his delegation  had been much concerned at the length of speeches in  the Programme and Budget Commission. He sug-  gested that members of the Commission be asked to  limit their speeches to ten minutes.
(21) Mr. BOURGEOIS asked whether the delegate of  the United Kingdom would be willing to ask delegates  to limit their speeches to five minutes, with ten  minutes as the outside limit. Scientists might  reasonably be expected to be more terse than educa-  tionists. Besides, the earlier discussions had been  a sort of running-in process; they could now hope  for greater concentration. While he did not at that  stage wish to lay down a hard-and-fast rule, he him-  self was not losing sight af the fact that a strict time-  limit might have to be imposad on speeches.
(22) The CHAIRMAN announced that the procedure  would be as follows: first, provisional decisions by  the Programme and Budget Commission; next,  reference of thess to the Advisory Committee; lastly,  return of the items to the Commission, with the  Committee's comments, for final approval. In addi-  tion, speeches inthe Programme and Budget  Commission would be limited to a maximum of ten  minutes.
(23) Agreed.  - 256 -     COMMITTEE
(24) Mr. LEROY (France) asked leave to submit a  draft recommendation on natural disasters. The  Committee would recall the damage recently caused  by the hurricane "Hazel", the sympathy of the United  Nations with the sufferers and thelr invitation to the  Specialized Agencies to associate themselves with  those sentiments. It was much to be feared, how-  ever, that such an expression of sympathy would  remain empty words unless some funds were  provided. The French delegation had therefore felt  that the logical step was to work out a proposal  involving neither an increase in the budget nor the  appropriation of any part of the present budget. It  consisted essentially (1) in asking the Director-  General to give absolute priority to forwarding to the  technical assistance services requests from victims  of natural disasters for help to restore the economic  situation and alleviate the sufferings of the victims;
(2) in asking the Director-General to request the  technical assistance services to give similar absolute  priority to the examination of such requests.
(25) What procedure should be followed in submitting  such a draft recommendation?
(26) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL remarked that it was  for the Chairman of the Programme and Budget Com-  mission to say whether the Commission could revert  to the Technical Assistance chapter. I it could not,  the proposal of the French delegation might be in-  cluded in the General Resolutions, which had yet to  be considered.
(27) Mr. BOURGEOIS said he would find it difficult  to reopen chapters which his Commission had just  finished discussing; several requests to that effect  had already been made to him and he had always  turned them down,
(28) He felt that the Director-General's concluding  suggestion might well provide an answer, The Com-  mission could examine that project as a general  resolution, if it had no budgetary implications, while  the Advisory Committee embarked on a general  survey of the programme.
(29) Mr. LEROY (France) admitted that the project  was bzing submitted rather late and quite agreed  to its being discussed at the end of the  session.
(30) It was agreed to refer the French delegation's  proposal to the Programme and Budget Commission,  with a view to its possible inclusion in the General  Resolutions.
(31) Mr. BEEBY asked if the Spanish delegation's  proposal, contained in document 8C/DR/80 and  concerning amendments to the Financial Regulations  and Ruies of Procedure, was to be referred to the  Administrative Commission.
(32) It was agreed to refer document 8C/DR/90 to  the Administrative Commission.  The meeting rose at 10 a.m.