Vi-34 ADVISORY  paragraph 10 and also suggested th:  "task force’ be altered.  the expression
(109) Mr, LEE (United States of America) agreed  to the dropping cf'task force.
(110) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) suggested  merging paragraphs 10 and 11 wnich formed one  directive.
(111) Mr. LEE (United St. *e~ zf America) favoured  separate paragraphs. In paragraph 11, there was  a specific authorization to the Director-General to  establish a planning unit.
(112) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) recommended  therefore changing the order, and making paragraph
11 become 10, as the sejuerce would then be more  logical, Fe also favoured suppression of the words  in his immediate office in that paragraph.
(113) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) doubted whether  paragraph 11, which in ro way increased the powers  of the Director-General, served any useful purpose,  as he could already introduce changes in the admini-  strative structure of the Organization without the  authorization of the General Conference, and had in  fact done so.
(114) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  confirmed that the Director-General was competent  to alter the administrative structure of the  Orgamzation.
(118) Nevertheless, he hoped that paragraph 10  would be retained in an amended form, in order to  give a more concrete basis for the Director-General's  COMMITTEE ON     PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  action in introducing tne changes made necessary by  the remodelling of the programme. He suggested  the following wording:  "The Director-General 1s authorized to study the  methods for administering major projects and to give  specia. consideration to the organizational pattern  calculated to ensure full use of all relevant discip-  lines, as each project may require".
(116) He agreed that the order of paragraphs 10 and
11 should be changed as suggested by the United  Kingdom delegate, but doubted whether paragraph 11  was really necessary. It seemed to him even  dangerous.
(117) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) agreed to the  suppression of paragraph 11 and suggested further  that paragraph 10 might be deleted.
(118) Mr, LEE (United States of America) agreed  to deletion of paragraph 10.
(119) Mr. COWELL (United “ingdom) wished to  know what additional authority paragraph 10 gave  to the Director-General,
(120) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  admitted that paragraph 10 in no way increased the  existing powers of the Director-General. He thought,  however, that, for psychological reasons, 1t would  be wiser tc reassert the principle.
(121) It was decided by 5 votes to 1, without  abstention, that paragraph 10, in its new form,  should be retained.  The meeting rcse at 6.55 p.m.  THIRTY-FOURTH MEETING  ! December 1954 at 10 a.m.  Chairman: Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Australia)  DRAFT RESOLUTION CONCERNING THE FUTURE PROGRAMME  (document 8C/DIV/127)
(1) The CHAIRMAN, opening the discussion, said  that he did not understand paragraph 10,
(2) Mr, LEE (United States of America) said it was  not known whethier money and staff would be required  for planning, The paragraph had been included to  ensure that the proposals made in the resolution did  not fall through if the Director-General and his staff  felt unable to devote the necessary time to the import-  ant planning required for the high priority activities.
(3) Mr, MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) stated    - 850 -  that he now understood more clearly the sense which  the United States delegate attribut. i to paragraph 10.  Even so, he thought that it might with advantage be  moved elsewhere, and that the wording might be  altered.
(4) The point of the paragraph was to ask the  Director-General to pay particular attention to the  planning referred to in paragraph 7. It gave the  Director-General increased authority by empha-  sizing that the work in question was no mere  routine matter, but creative and imaginative work  which should accompany the implementation of the  programme for 1955-56, It would therefore be  better for that paragraph 10 to come at the end of  paragraph 7, or to be inserted between the   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON  existing paragraphs 7 and 8, with a number of  its own.
(5) He also thought that the wording of paragraph 10  was not clear, particularly in its reference to  evaluation, Apparently what was meant was the  pla.ining of future activities. The Assistant  Director-General according'y proposed the following  text, subject to subsequent rewording:  “In carrying out activities in the 1955-56 pro-  gramme which fall within priority areas, the  Director-General shall attach special importance to  making a critical review of those act,.vities with a  view to preparing major projects for execution in
(6) The CHAIRMAN observed that an additional  sentence in paragraph 7 would cover the point.
(7) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) agreed with the  Assistant Director-General, namely, that paragraph
7 could be suitably enlarged and that paragraph 10  could be deleted.
(8) He would like to see the words'is authorized to’  replaced, throughout the resolution, by shall.
(9) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) agreed with the Assistant  Director-General as regarded paragraph 10, but, if  the paragraph were retained, ‘evaluation and planning  aspects should read planning and evaluation aspects,  since evaluation of results normally followed the  implementation of action proposed.
(10) In addition, there was a certain abuse of the  term high priority, used adjectivally throughout the  document,
(11) The CHAIRMAN, referring to the first point  made by the delegate of Israel, said that evaluation  was put before planning because the cvaluation was  evaluation of past work, while the planning was the  planning of future work.
(12) Mr. LEE (United States of America) said that,  in planning future work, it would be desirable to  have some idea of what methods had been most  successful in the past. Perhaps a small-scale  evaluation project should be orgamzed tu assist  planmng.
(13) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) asked about the  funds for such work.
(14) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  observed that such planmng, to be conducted un the  basis of a critical review of past work, was regarded  by the Director-General as a task of the greatest  importance, Emphasis would, however, be laid on  quality rather than quantity in reviewing past  achievements.  {15) The Director-General already had the  necessary staff available, There was no advan-  tage in creating & special office, since such  work should be regarded as a combined effort  on the part of the Secretariat as a whole. (he  Planning Group which had occasionally been  mentioned already existed. 1t consisted cf the  Director-General, the Assistant Directors-  General and their immediate assistants,  - 851 -        PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VI-34
(16) It might be necessary, 1n organizing the work,  to engage some temporary lower ranking officials.  In addition, the help of certain consultants aad  specialists might be needed. That did not mean,  however, that it would be necessary to provide  extra funds and posts. The Director-General conld  meet requirements by exercising his right to  transfer funds during the year, That flexible  procedure seemed better from every point of view.  The work planned migh* accordingly be carried ou.  by the staff and with the funds already available,  subject to transfers to be arranged later.
(17) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt), referring to  paragraph 10, said that, i” evaluation were limited  to high priority areas, ard did not extead to the  programme as a whole, it was hard to see how any  general planning was possible,
(18) Mr, MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  replied that such an idea was rather a long way  from the original intention of the United States  delegate, who regarded evaluation as the starting  point for planning. The major projects belonged to  the limited priority areas, and the evaluation in  question only concerned those areas. If evaluation  were to apply to the whole programme, the  propositioh would be quite a different one.
(19) Mr. LEE (United States of America) agreed  that evaluation should extend to as much of the  programme as possible. But the point of the para-  graph was to stress that planning and evaluation  were pat ticularly important in the high priority  areas,
(20) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) said that, with all  deference towards the social scientists, 1t was  over-optimistic to believe that evaluation could be  applied to the whole range of Unerco's activities.  If &valuation were to apply to the whole programme,  there was a danger that a special organ might be  required. That, of course, would have budgetary  :mplications.
(21) The Director-General, he added, was given  authority to implement the programme decided on  by the Conference. Paragraph 11 implied that he  was being given latitude to tamper with it, which  was surely improper,
(22) The CHAIRMAN said that evaluation as used  in the document did not have the technical meaning  it bore for the social scientists.
(23) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  suggested placing paragraph 11 before paragraph 7,  at the same time broadening its scope as suggested  by the delegate of Egypt. The purpose of the para-  graph was to ask the Director-General to keep  constantly in mird the need for a critical review,  but not for a scientific evaluation of the  programme. As the programme was to be  scrutinized with an eye to the future, the  Director-General would endeavour to complete  certain projects in 1956 and, where appropri-  ate, to cut down those appearing unlikely to  yield results.   VI-34
(24) Paragraph 11 thus pointed to a critical review  of the whole programme by the Director-General,  with the aim of ensuring a certain amount of flexibility  in carrying it out.
(25) Paragraph 7 as it stood would be followed by a  modified version of paragraph 10; paragraph 8,  providing for consultation with Member States and  the bodies concerned, and paragraph 9, dealing with  the possible administrative repercussicns of  remodelling the programme, would then follow  logically.
(26) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt), referring to the  point raised by the delegate of India, said that Unesco,  in its Social Sciences Department, was continually  using the word ‘evaluation’ in the scientific sense.
(27) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  pointed out that, for the time being, the evaluation  on which the Department of Social Sciences was  engaged was more limited in scope. What it was  principally concerned with was trying out different  evaluation techniques. No really certain methods  yet existed in that field, For the time being, plain  commen sense and some critical thinking were all  that were needed.
(28) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) suspected that  the word ‘evaluation: as used by the United States  delegation in its draft resolution, simply meant a  critical review.
(29) As a matter of drafting, he felt that it would be  well to reverse the order of the existing paragraphs
(5) and (6), so that the definition of priority area  came before the definition of major project.
(30) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) noted, in paragraph
3 (v), that the term‘action sur les esprits”had been  replaced by action sur l'opinion publique? The  French delegation very much preferred the previous  version, which had the advantage of covering  educational activities concerned with human rights  and international co-operation.
(31) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  believed that the original French text had been  translated by action on public opinion, and that the  expression had been translated back word for word.  when the present resolution was being drafted. He  proposed readopting the originai French text, and  leaving the English as it stood.
(32) Approved.
(33) Referring to the French text, Mr. FRANCOIS  (France) thought that paragraphs 4 and 5 needed to  be brought into line. They contained the expressions  ‘activités spéciales; ‘projets’ and ‘entreprises; all of  which appeared to represent the same idea.
(34) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  suggested that “projets d'importance majeure"  be substituted for “entreprises d'importance  majeure: The amendment did not affect  the English text.
(35) Approved.  - 852 -     ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET
(36) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) was glad to accept  Mr. Cowell's suggestion that the order of paragraphs
5 and 6 be reversed, but he thought that the definition  of priority areas in paragraph 6 should be reworded,
(37) As proposed by Mr. François, it was agreed  to amend the beginning of paragraph 6 to read:  "Priority areas are those subject fields to which  the General Conference decides to attach particular  importance within the framework of special activities,  and in which major projects should be worked out  and organized".
(38) Mr, JUNANKAR (India), referring to paragraph
3 (v), said that public opinion, therein mentioned,  was a vague concept. It would be better to say  action to promote human rights and international  co-operation,
(39) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  wondered whether it would be possible to satisfy  the delegate for India without arousing objections  on the part of the delegate of France, who had made  a special request for the reintroducticn in the French  text of the expression‘actio.1 sur les esprits:
(40) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) said that in paragraph 3,  «general activities*were defined as the permanent  functions of the Organization of interest to all  Member States. Would it not be better to say  *continuous’rather than’permanent?
(41) The CHAIRMAN said it had originally been  agreed to use the expression‘continucus functions:  The words'permanent functions might be a  translation back from the French.
(42) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) said that there were  some activities, such as the furthering of co-  operation between National Commissions faced with  similar problems, that were difficult to class either  as general or as special activities, as defined in  the document.
(43) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  recalled that the Chairman of the Executive Board  had on several occasions emphasized the fact that  Unesco's tenth anniversary would mark a new  starting point in the Organization's career. The  remodelling of the programme was the first stage  in the new phase. The request for the collaboration  of Member States and the choice of methods to be  employed in order that such collaboration might be  effective was another stage.
(44) Mr. PANNETON (Canada) suggested  substituting long-term functions ‘for ‘permanent  functions’
(45) Mr. MAHIU (Assistant Director-  General) suggested the following reading  for paragraph 3: ‘those functions of the  Organization which concern all Member  States”.
(46) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) would prefer to  retain “permanent functions.   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET Vi-34
(47) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) said that in  previous discussions much stress had been laid on  the fact that the two parts of the programme, i.e.  general and special activities, were really parts of  a whole, and that the full use of knowledge gained  as a result of general activities could be applied  with advantage to the special activities. But the  reserse was also true, and perhaps the point should  be made in the resolution.
(48) In paragraphs (a) and (b) of paragraph 3, it  was stated that general activities were designed to  develop education, science and culture and to  improve international understanding. But that could  be said of the special activities too.
(49) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  acknowledged the cogency of the Egyptian delegate's  remarks, and hoped that Mr. Abdel-Rahman would  be able to suggest ways of solving the difficulties  to which he had referred.
(50) Mr. Maheu also recalled that sub-paragraphs  (a) and (b) had been inserted at the request of the  French delegation. He agreed that they referred to  general aims, which were equally applicable to  special projects and technical aid.
(51) Further, point (3) of paragraph 4 on page 2  had been inserted at the proposal of the United  States delegate. It was true that general activities  also were covered by budget estimates and carried  out in accordance with clearly defined methods.  The United States delegation, however, must have  meant that the Conference should know exactly  what it was undertaking when it agreed to the  implementation of a long-term project. If a project  were spread over several financial years, provision  should be made for the necessary funds in the  budget for each of the years concerned.
(52) Mr. Maheu went on to emphasize the fact that  the unity of the programme had two equally valid  meanings. General activities were essential to  special activities; conversely, general activities  increased in effectiveness as the Organization  developed its special activities and technical aid.  It would accordingly be advisable to draw attention  in paragraph 2 to the complete interdependence  of the two parts of the programme.
(53) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) understood that  the problem of the balance between general and  special activities lay outside the terms of reference  of the Committee. But it would inevitably arise  once the resolution was forwarded to the Programme  and Budget Commission. Should the Committee  recommend that it be considered? If a mathematical  balance between the two activities was not necessary,  should not the Commiitee say so?
(54) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) did  not see any difficulty there. The Programme and  Budget Commission had announced that it intended  to return to the matter, and the Committee had  already expressed its opinion in document 8C/BUD/ 2.
(55) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) pointed out  that the point raised by the dclegate of Egypt was  clearly dealt with in paragraph 18 of the report by  the Executive Board on remodelling of the future  - 853 -     programme (document 8C/PRG/13). To remove  all misunderstanding, it might be well to include,  at the beginning of the draft resolution, a statement  recording the Committee's approval of the general  policy set forth in document 8C/PRG/13,
(56) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  said that, in its own report on document 8C/PRG/13  (document 8C/BUD/2, paragraph 7), the Committee  had already recorded its agreement with the views  of the Executive Board "that, in considering each  of the proposed activities, the need for integration  should be constantly borne in mind", That same  paragraph went on to say that "it would therefore  be harmful to seek to determine in advance the  apportionment of funds between the general aspect  and the special aspect of these activities". Hence  it would be sufficient to say that the Committee  agreed with the views of the Board, as set forth  in document 8C/PRG/13.
(57) In reply to a question from the CHAIRMAN,  Mr. FRANCOIS (France) stated that he maintained  his position in favour of retaining sub-paragrapha  (a) and (b) of paragraph 3 (DIV/127). He had  however noted the comments of the Egypuan  delegate with keen interest, and would suggest the  following wording for sub-paragraph (a): “The  development, in ail Member States, of education...’  further, the beginning of paragraph 4 might read-  ‘Special activities are those of the general  activities designed to meet ...".
(58) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  thought that the second amendment might lead to  confusion between two quite separate ideas.
(59) Mr. LEE (United States of America) agreed  with the Assistant Director-General that paragraphs  (a) and (b) might not be logically necessary. They  had been introduced merely in order to emphasize  the purpose of all Unesco activity. It would be  better to include them under paragraph 2, with a  sentence stressing the essential solidarity of both  parts of the programme, and then to say that both  types of activity were designed to achieve the aims  set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b).
(60) It was decided by vote not to delete paragraphs  (a) and (b) of paragraph 3, but to include them  under paragraph 2.
(61) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) thought that  some reference ought perhaps to be made to the  Constitution at that point in the resolution.
(62) The CHAIRMAN, personally, would prefer  to omit such a reference,
(63) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) agreed with  the delegate of Norway. Perhaps the existing  paragraph 3 (v) might suitably become (c) under  naragraph 2.
(64) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  saw no reason for altering the position of sub-  paragraph 3 (v), which would lose much of its   Vi-34 ADVISORY COMMITTEE O  point if it merely drew attention to a very general  aim. On the contrary, it referred to very definite  and practical action with a view to teaching adults  and young people the principles of numan rights  and international co-operation.
(65) It was finally agreed not to move sub-paragraph
(66) In paragraph 3 (v) it was agreed that the English  words "action on public opinion" should be revised  with a view to finding an exact translation of the  French expression "action sur les esprits”.
(67) Mr. LEE (United States of America) and  Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) supported the idea  advanced by the delegate of the United Kingdom,  ramely, that the Committee and its resolution should  record approval of document 8C/PRG/13, and the  latter thought that there should also be a reference  to document 8C/BUD/ 2,
(68) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) stated that the French  delegation was fundamentally opposed to paragraphs
62 and 68 of document 8C/PRG/13. On the other  hand, it approved document 8C/BUD/2, in which the  Committee had expressed quite a different opinion on  the problem dealt with in those two paragraphs,
(69) The CHAIRMAN said that, because of the views  held by the delegate of France, the question would  have tu be decided by vote.
(70) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) said that reference ought  perhaps to be made to the report by the Expert  Committee on remodelling of the programme
(71) The CHAIRMAN and Mr. MAHEU (Assistant  Director-General) both agreed that the report  referred to was not a report by an organ of the  Conference. It was a report to the Director-General,  referred to the Committee in order that the Commit-  tee might submit its views on it to the Programme  Commission. In submitting the resolution,  reference might be made to the fact that the report  had been so used, but the Conference should not be  asked to take note of the document, .
(72) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive  Board) asked whether the Committee would agree  to add a paragraph at the end on the procedure to be  followed for aid to Member States.  N     - 954  PROGRAMME AND BUDGET
(73) In paragraph 63 of document 8C/PRG/13, the  Board had recommended the methods and procedures  successfully used in implementing the Expanded Pro-  gramme of Technical Assistance. The view of the  Board had been that the period 1955-56 should be  considered a trial period as regards the allotment of  funds for such purposes, and that, in the light of the  experience gathered, the Director-General should  include in the draft programme for 1957-58 a state-  ment of the conditions proposed for the grant of aid to  Member States, together withan apportionment of funds  under that heading, inthe light of the requests received  from Member States during the preceding period.
(74) The CHAIRMAN said that, if a member  cared to move something on those lires,.a  paragraph might be added, under the heading  Aid to Member States.
(75) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) assumed that  tn any major project, such as fundamental  education, there might be activities which would  be clasced as aid to Member States. The two would  not be mutually exclusive. He would prepare an  amendment to the resolution designed to make his  point clear.  +
(76) It was agreed that the Secretariat should  prepare a final draft of the resolution to take into  account the comments and amendments made  during the meeting.
(77) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) called attention to a  point of drafting in the last paragraph of paragraph
4. It was stated that some projects required only  small resources, while others called for  concentration of efforts and rescurces, i.e,, a  contrast was presumably intended. If so, was the  word concentration not misleauing?
(78) Mr. LEE (United States of America) said  that paragraph 4 began as follows; “Special  activities are those designed to meet the individual  needs of Member States". It would be better to  say: . to meet tne needs of individual Member  States or groups of Member States".
(79) The CHAIRMAN said that the above points  would be duly considered in preparing the second  draft.  The meeting rose at 12,15 p,m,