PLENARY MEETINGS 1-16  Mr. Spilhaus (United States of America): 64 otes,  Mr. Awad (Egypt): 63 votes;  Mr. Ferrara Marino (Cuba): 63 votes;  Mr. Massaquoi (Liberia): 63 votes;  Mr. Raadi (Iran): 63 votes;  Mr. Sharif (Pakistan): 63 votes;  Mr. Bender (Netherlands): 62 votes;  Mr. Berredo Carneiro (Brazil): 62 votes;  Mgr Maroun (Lebanon): 62 votes;  Mr. Mudaliar (India): 62 votes;  Sir Ben Bowen Thomas (United Kingdom): 62 votes;  Mr. Secco Ellauri (Uruguay): 61 votes;  Mr. Martinez Cobo (Ecuador): 60 votes;  Mr. Bardales (Honduras): 17 votes;  Mr. Paik (Korea): 15 vutes.
(105) In accordance with the transitional provision  in the Rules of Procedure of the Conference, we will  now draw lots to choose, from among the 22 delegates  who have been elected members of the Board, the 11  who will retire two years after taking office.
(106) 1 ask the Chairman of the Nominations Commit-  tee kindly to draw the lots.
(107) As a result of the lots drawn by the Chrirman  of the Nominations Committee, the following mem-  be-s of the Executive Board will retire in two years'  Mrs. Schlueter-Hermkes {German Federal time:  Republic): 58 votes;  Mr. Estelrich (Spain): 54 votes;  Mr. Nielsen (Denmark): 51 votes;  Mr. Malakul (Thailand): 50 votes;  Mr. Johannes (Indonesia): 49 votes;  Mr. Solodovnikov (USSR): 48 votes,
(104) In addition, the candidates lam about to  mention received the following number of votes:  Princess Souvanna Phouma (Laos): 25 votes;    Mr. Bender (Netherlands)  Mr. Massaquoi (Liberia)  Mr. Solodovnikov (USSR)  Mr. Haguiwara (Japan)  Mr. Malakul (Thailand)  Mr. Mudaliar (India)  Mr. Sharif (Pakistan)  Mr. Ferrara Marino (Cuba)  Mr, Spilhaus (United States of America)  Mrs. Schlueter-Hermkes (German Federal  Mr. Piaget (Switzerland): 24 votes; Mr, Estelrich (Spain). Republic)  Mr. Vo Van Lua (Viet-Nam): 18 votes; «  Mr. Wierblowski (Poland): 18 votes; | The meeting rose at 7. t5 p.m.  SIXTEENTH PLENARY MEETING
8 December 1954 at 3.45 p.m.  President: Mr. ZAVALA MUNIZ {Uruguay)  CONTENTS  Consideration and adoption of the Report of the Committee on  Reports of Member States (document 8C/REP/1) . .. . .. 195  Considerationand adoption of the Report of the Administrative  Commission (documents 8C/ADM/35 and Appendix) . . . . 197  CONSIDERATION AND ADOFTION OF THE REPORT OF THE  COMMITTEE ON REPORTS OF MEMBER STATER (document 8C/  REP/1)
(1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  We shall consider the report of the Committee on  Reports of Member States, I call upon the Rapport-  eur, Mr. Hazoum.
(2) Mr. HAZOUM (Rapporteur) (Translation from  the French): Mr. President, in addressing this  Conference for the first time, I wish, first of all,  to state my heartfelt conviction that this eighth    - 185 -  session of the General Conference of  Unesco is a landmark in the annals of  the Organization - and, 1 might add, in  the history of mankind - in that it has  furthered Unesco's unfailing efforts to  increase understanding and hence also  friendship amongst men, and to extend  that international co-operation which should  lead to banishing the spectre of war  forever and wiping out other scourges  which enfeeble, when they do not actually  decimate, the ranks of mankind.
(3) Yes, there is no doubt that this Conference will  be a landmark. It is the first Conference a* which,  in addition to the 70 old Member States, 5 of which  belong to the African ccntinent, we have had  representatives of two new countries in .:quatorial  Africa, ranking as Associate Members; Sierra  Leone and the Gold Coast.
(4) As an African I cannot but rejoice at this.  the glow which ! see today on the horizon of my  beloved Africa grow soon into a dazzling light which  will disperse the shades of illiteracy, of ignorance,  May  the root, as we well know, of all too many prejudices  and evils.
(5) The Head of my delegation has thanked the  Uruguayan people for their warm welcome to the  delegates of Member States, for the magnificent  reception organized in their honour on the day of the  opening of this Conference; and, finally, for all the  solicitude displayed by the Government of Uruguay  in order to make our stay in this city a pleasant one.
(6) Speaking for myself, my heart was won by your  schoolchildren, at once the pride and the hope of  your country, the young people who sang to us that  beautiful Canticle to Hope. My heart was won, too,  by your magnificent spirit of universality, which  finds expression in deeds as well as in words. You  are thus, all unwittingly, setting the world a noble  example.
(7) I am aware that a country like yours has always  inspired its sons to fine poetry, and that you do not  lack talented poets,  a people must necessarily possess good composers.  Your poets and musicians could have produced in  honour of this Conference held in your capital words  and music equal to the finest produced by the writers  and composers of other nations. But you preferred  to choose a poem by a French writer - Paul Claudel -  and had it set to the music of a German composer -  Paul Hindemith, That you elected to do this was  proof of your spirit of undersianding ard of your  fervent desire for the international co-operation  which will engender an atmosphere of friendship  among men and dispel the suspicion that paralyses  our spontaneous goodwill, poisons our minds and  creates the war psychosis which mankind has for the  last few years been struggling in vain to throw off.  This fervent desire for international co-operation  does you great credit.
(8)  in the warm tribute paid in this city to the memory  of Henri Poincaré. That tribute finally confirmed  my conviction that, for all your attachment to your  own country, you have a very deep interest in  mankind in general, in the people of other countries,  and that your spirit 1s universal. You admire the  wide learning personified in that great French  scholar,
(9) I have seen that you are deeply imbued with the  spirit of democracy: that intelligent, tolerant  demeccracy which suffers no sectarianism of any kind,  and permits the free expression and clash of opinions.  This true democracy, based on justice, has never  despised or repressed the humble and the members  of minority groups but, oa the contrary, has  consistently respected them.
(10) If nd ample proof of this in your recent  parliamentary elections which I have been able to  PLENARY  I ain aware also that so sensitive  I find further proof of your spirit of universality     - 196 -  ETINGS  witness in Montevideo. During the electoral  campaign, I wandered freely through your capital  and through some of your provincial cities, and was  thus abie to realize the extent of your attachment to  the freedom of expression which alone mikes Man  truly Man, Your elections were marked by extra-  ordinary calm and admirable dignity.
(11) This is surely incontestable proof of your  great political maturity. Proof too of a true  democracy, which never stoops to acts of violence  against those who, in accordance with their rights,  hold political opinions contrary to our own.
(12) It is no doubt this democracy, truly understood  and conscientiously applied, which is at the root of  the serenity of mind which I find so admirable in  you, and which explains the domestic peace which  other nations must envy you.
(13) But it is time for me to stop, and to come to  the subject on which I am here to speak, in my  capacity as Rapporteur
(14) The Report of the Committee on Reports of  Member States contains four sections: the first  section consists of the first seven paragraphs, and  deals with the establishment of the Committee on  Reports of Member States, set up at the fifth session  of the General Conference, by resolution 30. 214.  it deals also with the purpose of that Committee,  which is to examine the reports that Member States  are required to submit under Article VIII of the  Unesco Constitution. Eleven Member States are  represented on this Committee - Austria, Cambodia,  Dominican Republic, Ecuador, France, Iraq,  Luxembourg, Turkey, Union of South Africa, United  Kingdom and United States of America. Two Member  States - Luxembourg and Austria - were absent.  (Austria was able to send a representative to our  first meeting only.)
(15) We also had four States represented by  observers - Argentina, German Federal Republic,  Haiti and Spain.
(16) At our first meeting, we elected our Officers,  consisting of a Chairman, two Vice-Chairmen and  a Rapporteur. The post of Chairman fell to Iraq,  those of the two Vice-Chairmen to Cambodia and  the Dominican Republic, and that of Rapporteur to  France.
18, 22, 23, 24 and 29 November.
(18) At the last meeting, the Director-General, the  Assistant Director-General and the Acting Chief of  the Division for Relations with Governments and  National Commissions were present,
(19) At the other seven meetings the Chairm:s was  accompanied hy the Director of the Havana Regional  Office, representing the Director-General. At all  meetings we had our Secretary and a representative  of the Division for Relaticns with Governments and  National Commissions.
(20) That is a short s»exmary of the first section.
(21) The second contains a general study of the  reports submitted for the years 1952-53. The  Committee was able to study 58 reports in all.  These reports were submitted by the following  Member States: Afghanistan, Argentina, Australia,  Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Cambodia, Canada,  Ceylon, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba,  Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt,   PLENARY  El Salvador, France, German Federal Republic,  Greece, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, lran,  Iraq, Israel, Italy, Japan, Jordan {Hashemite  Kingdom of), Korea, Laos, Lebanon, Libya,  Mexico, Monaco, Netherlands, New Zealand,  Nicaragua, Norway, Pakistan, Panama, Philippines,  Poland, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Syria, Thailand,  Turkey, Union of Burma, Union of South Africa,  Umted Kingdom, Uruguay, Viet-Nam, Yugoslavia.
(22) I will now read you the rest of the report and  the draft resolution that follows it, *
(23) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Discussion of the report presented by the Rapporteur  is open. If no delegate wishes to speak, I shall put  it to the vote.
(24) The report and the draft resolution were adopted  by 45 votes to 0, with 4 abstentions.  COYSIDERATION AND ADOPTION Vi THE REPORT OF THE  ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION (document 8C/ADM/35 and  Appendix)
(25) 1 call upon Mr. Eriksson, the Rapporteur.
(26) Mr. ERIKSSON (Raproiteur of the Adininistra-  tive Commission): Mi. President, fellow delegates,  I shall not be able to make such an eloquent speech  in presenting this report as the Rapporteur of the  Committee on Reports of Meraber States. I will,  however, mention some of the main points in the  Report of the Administrative Commission.
(27) Before doing so, I will draw your attentioa to  a few minor errors:
(28) On page 26, in the .niddle of the page,  resolution No. 31 should read No, 32.
(29) On the last page No. 41, under (b) Part I,  Chapter 2, number (v), comes a resolution or  recommendation "That the Russian language be a  wo. king language of the General Conference", That  paragraph should come under Part I, (a), as number  (it).
(30) I am also sorry to say that the names of the  Vice-Chairmen from Egypt and Israel have been  mis-spelt or wrongly typed, which of course will be  corrected. I hope they will excuse those errors.
(31) I will not go into details, as all Member States  had delegations on this Commission; 1 will simply  present the report submitted to the General Confer-  ence for approval except for certain resolutions  which have already been adopted by the General  Conference in plenary session. I wi'l mention those  exceptions when I come to them.
(32) The Report contains six main Sections from A.  to F. On page 2 you will find A. Financial Questions.
1 -..aw your attention there to the fact that the  accounts and reports on Financial Business were  not only accepted by the Commission, but that the  Commission also congratulated the Director-  General on the excellent state of the finances of the  Organization, which congratulations, I feel, were  particularly directed to the Comptroller of the  Organization, Mr. Harper-Smith,  * The final text of the Report will be found in
8C/Resolutions (Annex 3).  - 197 -     MEETINGS 11-16
(33) Let us now turn to prge 3, which starts the  chapter on Member State s' Contributions. If you  look under Scale of Contributions, you will find on  page 5 a footnote saying that this resolution was  adopted at the twelfth plenary meeting of the General  Conference, so we do not have to take a de. ision on  that part of the report at this meeting. We can pass  directly to Currency of Contributions on page 6.  You will find under Currency of Contributions that  this resolution is similar to that adopted by the  seventh session of the General Conference, except  that Switzerland is no longer required to pay in  Swiss francs, and that provision is made for the  acceptance of national currencies for Member  States where the Director-General considers that  there is a foreseeable need for a substantial amount  of that currency. ! will not read the resolutions,  you will find them under each chapter.
(34) The resolutions on Collection of Contributions  are on pages 7 and 8, These have already been  adopted by the General Conference at the twelfth  plenary meeting, We can therefore turn to Admin-  stration of the Working Capital Fund - which covers  page 11 and part of pare 12. The Commission  agreed to the various uses to which the Fund may  be put during the years 1955-56 on the same basis  as was approved for 1953-54, but with the addition  of an item relating to any awards of compensation  ordered by the Administrative Tribunal of the  International Labour Organization. Certain  delegates also expressed the hope that the Director  General would examine the possibility of amending  the Financial Regulations so as to incorporate in  them the substance of the resolution proposed  thereafter, instead of submitting such a resolution  at each session of the General Conference.
(35) Turning to Amendments to the Financial  Regulations (pages 12 and 13), the revised text that  is proposed provides that cash surpluses shall not  be credited to Member States who have not paid in  full their contribution for the year to which tke  surplus relates. We also examined a resolution  submitted by the delegate of Spain relating to  amendments to and departures from the Financial  Itegulations, and considered that any departure  from the Financial Regulations should be preceded  by the preliminary suspension of the provision to  which an exception is to be made, that no amend-  ment to the Financial! Regulations can be considered  by the Conference unless the question has been  placed on the agenda of the Gereral Conference in  accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and that  it would be desirable to insert in the Financial  Regulations a provision that the Regulations may  not be amended, nor the application of one of the  Regulations suspended, éxcept by a decision taken  by a two-thirds majority.
(36) On pages 13 and 14 you will find that Iran,  Israel and Yugoslavia submitted requests for the  writing off of losses incurred by the National  Commissions of these States in acting as  distributing agencies for Unesco Coupons. The  Commission has agreed to these losses being  written off.
(37) Methods of Financing the Budget are on pages
14 and 15 and were adopted at the twelfth plenary  meeting of the General Conference.   I-16
(38) The next main Section is on Social Security  Questions. This calls for little comment, but I want  to mention especially that the Cornmission recom-  mended the election of a Permanent Delegate to  Unesco of the following Member States as represent-  atives of the General Conference on the Unesco Staff  Pensions Committee. They recommended as  Members: Australia, Francs and Italy, and as  Alternate Members: Japan, Lebancn and the United  States of America.
(39) Staff Questions starts on page 19, I will first  take up Per-onnel Recruitment Standards and  Methods (pages 19 to 21). We noted there especially  ",.. that the proposed amendments were aimed at  maintaining the highest standards of efficiency,  competence and integrity, affording the maximum  security of tenure, and ensuring equitable geograph-  ical representation within the Secretariat." We also  considered certain measures to enable the Director-  General to improve the present situation. If you  look at resolution 26.1 (and the same applies later  to 29.1), you will find that we have left out the date  on which these changes shall take effect. We had  to do that as we were not quite sure when this  meeting would take place, and it should be the date  of this meeting, failing any other decision.
(40) I will then turn to page 21 - Personnel Policy,  Obligations and Rights of Staff Members: Proposed  Amendments to the Staff Regulations. We examined  in detail the Director-General's proposals for  amendments to the Staff Regulations, the purpose af  which was to define more clearly the obligations and  rights of staff members and to bring Unesco's  personnel policy into closer conformity with that of  the United Nations. In the course of the debate, the  attention of the Commission was drawn to Article 13  of the Agreement between the United Nations and  Unesco, which Article calls for close co-ordination  in matters of personnel policy. Several delegates,  while agreeing that close co-ordination was most  desirable, maintained that this did not necessarily  mean that the Staff Regulations of the two Organiza-  tions should be identical. Certain delegates were  not sure that some of the changes were opportune  and wondered if consideration of them should not be  postponed until the ninth session of the General  Conference. Some delegates were of the opinion  that the existing Staff Regulations were adequate,  but that, if the Director-General considered that  certain points required clarification, it was the  duty of the General Conference to clarify them.  While there was some question whether there could  be an exhaustive definition of the term integrity, it  was pointed out that staff members had to observe  certain overall standards of behaviour, and in this  respect the particular attention of delegates was  called to paragraph 4 of the report of the International  Civil Service Advisory Board on Standards of Conduct  It was emphasized in the International Civil Service,  that staff members had duties and obligations as well  as rights and that, although they were not required  to give up their convictions, they were obliged at all  times to regulate their actions in such a way as to  put the interests of the Organization above their own  personal interests,
(41) I also wish to mention specially that, in  connexion with Regulation 9.1.1, the Director-General  PLENARY     - 198 -  ETINGS  stated that he wculd make a Staff Rule providing for  a Special Advisory Board, consisting of a Chair-  man and of four otl'er members selected by himself  in consultation with the Staff Association.
(42) On page 24 you will find that we considered a  proposed resolution concerning the Statutes of the  Appeals Board and one concerning recognition of  the competence of International Administrative  Tribunals.
(43) On page 25, we have Staff Regulations and  Staff Rules as they appear in document 8C/ADM/27%,
(44) The next main Section deals with Official and  External Relations (page 2t). We noted resolutions  and recommendations of the United Nations organs  concerning Unesco and discussed at some length  the review by the Executive Foard of the employment  of subventions and also of the Directives concerning  Unesco's relations with international non-govern-  mental organizations. While approving the con-  clusions and recommendations of the Executive  Board, the Commission decided to refer (with one  exception) the proposed changes to the Directives  contained in document 8C/ADM/ 21 back for further  study by the Executive Board, with the request that  it submit a report to the ninth session of the General  Conference.
(45) On pages 27 and 28 you will find the results of  our discussions corcerning applications by inter-  national non-governmental organizations for  admission to consultative arrangements with  Unesco. You will find under item 33.1 the list of  those which we suggest that the Conference approve,  and on page 28 under 33. 2, those which we suggest  should be reconsidered at the ninth session of the  General Conference. In that connexion the delegation  of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics informed  the Commission that it would raise the question of  item 33. 2 again in plenary session.
(46) We can now turn to Legal Questions (pages 29  to 39). We considered amendments to Article II of  the Constitution, relating to the withdrawal of  Member States, and approved in principle the right  of Member States to withdraw by unilateral action.  You will find the draft resolution under 35.1.
(47) Amendments to Article V of the Constitution  relating to the composition of the Executive Board  (pages 30 and 31) have already been adopted by the  General Conference. The amendments to Article  V, 9 and VI, 3, of the Constitution, relating to the  Director-General's reports on the activities of the  Organization, were also considered and you will  find the resolution under 35. 23.
(48) You may then turn to page 32, where 1  especially want to mention draft amendments to the  Rules of Procedure of the General Ccnference  relating to the election of members of the Executive  Board, which were adopted by the General Confer-  ence, on 22 November. The Conference adopted  amendments to Rule 95, paragraphs 1 and 2, Rule
95A and Rule 98. Under (b) you will find draft  amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the  General Conference relating to Associate Members.  The numerous changes made 1n the Rules of  Procedure will be found on pages 34, 35 et seq.
(49) We also, as you will find on page 33 under (c),  considered draft arnendments to the Rules of  Procedure of the General Conference resulting   PLENARY  Irom the adoption of Russian as a working language  of the General Conference. Under (d) you wili find  some miscellaneous amendments to the Rules of  Procedure of the General Conference. These latter  amendments aim at clarifying certain points of  drafting, at bringing certain rules into closer  conformity with existing practice or at harmonizing  the texts of certain other rules in the three languages.
(50) You may now turn to page 40, where you have  General Questions under Section F. We considered  and have suggested resolutions concerning the new  Headquarters in Paris; but I do not think I have to  go further into that.
(51) On page 41, you will find some recommendations  which you had submit.ed to the Programme Co:n-  mission, but we do not have to discuss that part here,  since it will be presented to the plenary conference  by the Rapporteur of the Programme Commission. 1  wish, however, to mention that the Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics' delegation informed the Com-  mission, in this connexion also, that it would take up  the question of Russian as a working language of the  General Conference and the Executive Board, at a  plenary meeting of the General Conference.
(52) That is really all 1 have to say for the present  about this report. 1 must, however, express the  gratitude of all the delegations who participated in the  work of the Commission to the Chairman - Dr. Beeby  of New Zealand - for his excellent conduct of the  Commission's work. We had some really difficult  questions to deal with, and without his help we could  not have disposed of them as we did.
(53) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):
1 submit for your consideration the report which has  been presented to the Conference. In view of iis  complexity, and the variety of subjects dealt with, 1  suggest that the Conference should discuss and vote  on the resolutions chapter by chapter,
(54) If the Conference has no objection to this  procedure, we will adopt this method, discussing  each section separately and voting on the resolutions  pertaining thereto. We shall thereforc omit those  sections containing resolutions already adopted by  the Conference.
(55) I take it that this suggestion is accepted, and  ask you to consider the first section of the report,  dealing with Financial Questions, resolutions 15.1,
15.2, 17, 19, 20 and 21.
(56) Resolution 15.1 was adopted by 43 votes to 0,  with 4 abstentions.
(57) Resolution 15, 2 was adopted unanimously.  {58) Resolution 17 (17.1 to 17.3.5 inclusive):  Currency of Contributions was adopted unanimously.
(59) Resolution 19 (19.1 to 19.5 inclusive): Admini-  stration of the Working Capital Fund was adopted by
46 votes to 0, with 2 abstentions.
(60) Resolution 20 (20.1 to 20. 3 inclusive): Amend-  ments to the Financial Regulations was adopted  unanimousiy.
(61) Resolution 21 (21.1 to 2i,2.1 inclusive): Losses    MEETINGS 1-18  on Exchange on Unesco Coupons was adopted by
46 votes to 0, with 2 abstentions.  Section B: Social Security Questions
(62) Resolution 23 {23.1 to 23. 3 inclusive): Report  by the Director-General on the Medical Benefits  Fund was adopted by 47 votes to 0, with 1 abstention.
(63) Resolution 24 (24.1 to 24. 4 inclusive): Report  by the Director-Genera! on the Staff Compensation  Plan for service-incurred risks was adopted  unanimously.
(64) Resolution 25 (25.1 to 25.3 inclusive): Report  by the Director-General on the United Nations Joint  Staff Pensions Fund was adopted unanimously.  Section C: Staff Questions
(65) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call upon the delegate of France.
(66) Mr. CABOUAT (France) (Translation from the  French): Mr. President, | merely wish to ask that  the vote be taken item by item, i.e, that we vote or  resolution 26.1, taking 26.11, 26.12, 26,13, 26,14  and so on; and then vote separately on resolution
26. 2 and again on resolution 26. 3.
(67) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Sparsh):
1 call upon the delegate of Belgium.
(68) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) (Translation from  the French): Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen,  I would like to make a comment about the date  suggested by the Rapporteur for the entry into force  of the changes in the Staff Regulations which we have  to consider. There appear to me to be serious  objections to deciding that these changes shall take  effect as from today. No private employer can change  his staff regulations and make those changes appli-  cable overnight, No civilized State would act in this  way, and I scarce.y think that an international  organization like ours can refuse to allow a certain  delay before the proposed amendments enter into  effect, especially as these amendments make con-  siderable changes in the Staff Regulations. I there-  fore suggest that their application be postponed until  three months after the staff has been given notice of  them by the usual procedure.
(68) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Sganish):  Does anyone wish to speak? We have to consider the  motion proposed by the delegate of Belgium and  seconded by the delegate of Greece. 1 call upon the  Director-General.
(70) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL: Mr, President,  this would, I believe, constitute a clear departure  from the practice of the General Conference. In the  past you have adopted amendments concerning the  Executive Board, you have passed amendments to  Financial Regulations, you have changed the Rules  of Procedure at this Conference and I believe in  every case you mace them effective immediately.
1 think that in the mind of the Administrative  - 198 -   I-16 PLENARY  Commission when it put this proposal before you,  the only thing that needed to be written in was the  date of your adoption of these Regulations, and I  should like to recommend most strongly that you  make them effective according to the usual practice.
(71) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  If no delegate wishes to speak, a vote will first be  taken on the item under discussion, namely the  proposal of the Belgian delegate.
(72) In the opinion of the Commission, the motion  presented by the Commission should first be put to  the vote. I call upon the delegate of Belgium.
(73) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) (Translation from  the French): Mr. President, gentlemen, 1 feel  obliged to speak again because | think we are making  an error of procedure. My proposal constitutes, 1  think, an amendment to the proposal of the Rapporteur  of this Commission, and should therefore, as I see  it, be voted on before we vote on the report before us.
(74) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Very well, A vote will be taken on the amendment  submitted by the Belgien delegate. It is understood  that approval of this amendinent will mean acceptance  of a three months" delay.
(75) The amendment submitted by the Belgian delegate  is rejected by 24 votes to 15, with 9 abstentions.
(76) We shall now take « vote on the proposal  submitted by the Rapporteur - item by item - in  accordance with the French delegate's request.
(77) Resolution 26.1 - 26.15 was adopted by 44 votes  to 0, with 4 abstentions.
(78) Resolution 26. 2 was adopted by 46 votes to 0,  with 2 abstentions.
(79) Resolution 26.3 was adopted by 47 votes to 1,  with no abstentions,
(80) Resolution 28: Salary Adjustments for Staff in  the Prircipal Officer and Director, and Professional  Categories was adopted vnanimously.  Resolution 29 - 29, 2: Personnel Policy, Obligations  and Rights of Staff Members; Proposed Amendments  to the Staff Regulations.
(81) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call upon the delegate of France.
(82) Mr. JUVIGNY (France) (Translation from the  French): Mr. President, gentlemen, the French  delegation wishes to pay tribute to the important  work done by the Administrative Commission, which  had a particularly heavy agenda. .
(83) Whilst the Frerch delegation agrees with most  of the decisions reached by the Commission, it is  obliged tn express its regret and state certain  reservations with regard to one vital question.
(84) The fact is that the suggested changes in the  Staff Regulations, affecting the articles dealing with  the obligations and rights of staff members, were    MEETINGS  adopted by the Commission without its being  possible to judge what their exact repercussions  would be.
(85) The concepts mentioned, in particular that of  integrity, should have been defined beforehand, as  the Executive Board urged. There was, in our  opinion, no question of drawing up a comprehensive  and watertight code of the obligations of staff  members; but you will agree with us that there was  room for a middle course between drawing up an  out-and-out catechism and providing no defini tion  at all of an abstract, ambiguous and inevitably  controversial concept. There is, perhaps, a  tendency to lose sight of one fact - that the resolutions  adopted by the Administrative Commission lay down  rules of conduct not only for the staff members but  for the administration as well, The staff member  must know whether any action Le is about to perform  does or does not constitute a lapse from integrity.  Similarly, the administration must know whether or  not any action a staff member takes or proposes to  take constitutes a lapse from integrity. And this  necessitates, if not actually a code, at least a guide.  We wished, in tne interests not only cf staff members  but of the reputation of the Organization itself, to  determine the general features of the notion of  integrity, its meaning and its scope. This was  particularly necessary, we thought, because some  of the provisions adopted appear to be retroactive.  Our hopes and expectations in this matter were  disappointed, Mr. President. That is the reason  for the reservations which we have expressed and  which we now repeat before the General Conference.  However, we have reason to hope that our fears will  be allayed, principally because the Director-General  has already shown that he appreciates our contention  by withdrawing some of his original proposals which  we opposed in the Administrative Commission and  which, of course, we do not intend to raise again at  this point; and also because the Director-General  has undertaken, to use his own words, to make  known for the guidance of the staff the principles  and criteria on which his decisions are based, and  to submit those principles and criteria for the  approval of the Executive Board. We are hopeful,  finally, because the appeals system will continue to  provide basic guarantees of justice. In this  conrexion, we are very pleased to see that the  Appeals Board now has Statutes which will ensure  its stability, the stability of its organization and  the impartiality of its rulings.
(86) There is one point, however, Mr. President,  which we are in honour bound to mention and on  which the General Conference should, we think,  state its opinion: this is the amendment to Regulation
1.7 of the Staff Regulations. This Regulation, as  adopted by the Administrative Commission, states  that: ''Staff members may exercise the right to  vote but shall not engage in any political activity  which is inconsistent with or might reflect upon the  independence and impartiality required by their  status as international civil servants". Mr.  President, we entirely agree. It is one of the prime  duties of an international civil servant to take no  public part in political controversies and to refrain  from giving public support, in word or writing, to  any political party, for such action would, as the  - 200 -   PLENARY  International Civil Service Advisory Board has said,  detract ftom the value of his contributic n to the work  of an international organization. But, while we  approve of this principle, we cannot accept a form of  words which, even thought it may not be the intention  of its authors, opens the door to discrimination on  the grounds of an attitude of mind. The inclusion of  the words "or might reflect upon", by endorsing and  legalizing what has been called the notion of potential  offence, would leave room for that kind of discrimin-  ation which should, in an Organization with ideals as  lofty as ours, be entirely ruled out.
(87) The use ct this wording, permitting penalization  of staff members on the strength of a doubt, engen-  ders - forgive me for saying so - doubts in the public  mind about the use which might be made of this weapon,  a weapon perhaps as dangerous to the wielder as to  the victim. Another clause adopted by the Admini-  strative Commission, Regulation 1.4, states that  staff members are not expected to give up their  religious or political convictions, or their national  sentiments, but that they shall at all times bear in  mind the reserve and tact incumbent upon them by  reason of their international status. The combination  of these provisions and the order in which they appear  show them to be sufficient, Sufficient, firstly, to  deal with any specific deviations from the political  reserve incumbent upon international civil servants;  and sufficient also to eliminate the possibility of  arbitrary sanctions for potential misconduct.
(88) In any case, Mr. President, we consider that  the contentious phrase "or might reflect upon’ ("ou  qui puisse en faire douter” in the French text) should  be deleted from the regulations we are now amending.
(89) For all the above reasons, we request that the  French text be altered to read as follows:  "Les fonctionnaires peuvent exercer le droit de  vote, mais ils ne peuvent se livrer h aucune activité  qui soit incompatible avec, ou porte atteinte à,  l'indépendance et l'irapartialité qu'exige leur qualité  de fonctionnaires internationaux”,
(90) In other words, the French delegation submits  a formal amendment as follows: (1) in the French  text add, after the word "avec" the words "ou porte  atteinte à'' and (2) delete the words "ou qui puisse en  faire douter’. This, I am toid, would simply  necessitate deleting the word might in the English  text.
(91) That, Mr. President, is the amendment which  my delegation wishes the Conference to adopt, for  the honour and reputation of the Organization.
(92) In conclusion, I need hardly add that we request  a separate vote on each paragraph introducing changes  in the Staff Regulations; in other words, that separate  votes be taken on paragraph 29.1, on Regulation 1.4,  then on Regulation 1.7, Regulation 9.1, and Regulation
9.1.1; within Regulation 9.1.1, the French delegation  also requests that each sub-paragraph be voted on  separately.
(93) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  We now have to consider the proposed amendment,  I call upon the Director-Ceneral.
(94) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL: Mr. President, I  listened with much interest to une statement of the  French delegate. 1 am in agreement with what    MEETINGS 1-16  he has said about Regulation 1.7 contained in this  document under 29.12.
(85) I should like to add that we discussed in the  Administrative Commiszion the use of the Report  of the International Civil Service Advisory Board  as a guide to integrity, impartiality and some of  the other terms that should be interpreted and  defined. 1 have accepted that report as the guide  which I shall follow in developing more precise  statements of criteria for action in connexion with  the application of some of these Regulations. The  Report of the International Civii Service Advisory  Board, which had not been prepared at the time the  paper was developed for presentatiun to the  Conference, will be distributed to all members of  the staff, and they will be told what I have told you  just now about my use of it as a guide. The French  delegate wanted a guide, and that is, for the moment,  the guide that I shall follow.
(86) This has been the practice of the Secretary-  General of the United Nations, and I think it is a  good practice to follow, In these circumstances, 1  have no objection to the amendment of this text as  suggested by the French delegate.
(97) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  The Director-General has expressed his approval of  the French ariendment. Will any delegate second it?
(98) The French amendment is seconded.
(99) 1 call upon the delegate of Belgium.
(100) Mr, BAUGNIET (Belgium) (Translation from  the French): Mr. President, gentlemen, Perscverare  diabolicum est. Even though I may seem diabolical,
1 am at least consistent and, just as I suggested a  short time ago that the date to be inserted at the  beginning of this resolution shovld not be today's  date, so I now propose formally that the date to be  added to paragraph 29.1 of the resolution before  you be not 8 December 1954, but some later date.  Why? The Director-General's explanations, which
1 did not think it necessary to take up when he first  spoke, did not convince me. No doubt, when your  Conference decides something, the resolution takes  immediate effect, because as a rule your decisions  bind only the Organization or the Member States,  which are all represented here. But when it is a  matter of amending the Staff Regulations, not only  the Organization and the Member States are involved;  there is the staff as well and, as the staff is a party  to the agreement, it is only right that, if the Regu-  lations are amended, the amendments should not  take effect until reasonable notice has been given.  This notice, which an industrialist gives his work-  men or employees, which a State gives its officisls,  should also be given by an international organization  of the standing of Unesco.
(101) For that reason, gentlemen, I must once more  urge that the date to be inserted in paragraph 29,1  be later than today (8 December 1954), and be such  as to allow sufficient time for the staff to be notified.
(102) Moreover, I note that, when the Director-  General informs the staff of amendments to the  Regulations, he takes care to leave a certain  interval between the date on which the document is  drawn up and the date on which it becomes effective.  As proof of this, take document 8C/ADM/27, which  - 201 -   a-16 PLENARY  we have approved and which you will have to approve  again in a few minutes. This document, which was  printed and distributed to Member States in October
1954, stipulates: "These rules shall be effective
1 November 1954" (Rule 112.2). On this occasion,  the Director-General found it necessary te notify the  staff and give them a month's warning.
(103) It is, I think, only right to allow an in*erval to  elapse between the adoption of our resolution and its  coming into force.
(104) When a country passes a law, it does not become  applicable until it has been published in the Official  Gazette and until a certain period has elapsed aiter  the date of that publication. 1 see no reason why our  international organization should depart from a  principle of public law which is accepted in all  civilized legal systems.
(105) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):
1 call on the delegate of the United States of America.
(106) Mr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America):  Mr. President, I first of all would like to stuie that  my delegation supports the amendment introduced  by the distinguished representative of France. The  intervention of the honourable representative of  Belgium, ! regret to say, surprises us a little, for  this very meeting only a few minutes ago made it  clear that its vote on other Staff Regulations, and I  repeat Staff Regulations, should become effective  immediately, and we do not see why some c° these  changes in the Staff Regulations which you have just  approved should become operative at once, while  others, which we are still considering, should  become operative later. It would create a situation  which would be, to say the least, confusing. More-  over, it has always been our understanding that tha  adjustments which are being made to the Regulations  now before us do little more than clarify the powers  of the Director-General. For these reasons, we  strongly support, for the sake of consistency and  good administration, the views put forward by our  Director-General and we hope that this plenary  meeting of the Conference will not accede to the  proposal made by the distinguished representative  of Belgium.
(107) The PRESIDENT (Translation from Spanish}:  Has any delegate seconded the motion of the Belgian  delegate?
(108) It has been seconded, We shall now take a  vote on the amendment proposed by the Belgian  delegate.
(109) The amendment is rejected by 25 votes to 15,  with 11 abstentions.
(110) Accordingly, the date inserted will be 8  December,
(111) Paragraph 29.11, Regulation 1.4 was voted  upon and adopted by 38 votes to 1, with 14 abstentions.
(112) Paragraph 29.12, Regulation 1.7, with the  amendment proposed by the French delegate, support-  ed by the Director-General and by other delegates,  was adopted by 41 votes to 0, with 9 abstentions.    MEETINGS
(113) Paragraph 29.13, Regulation 9.1, was  adopted by 42 votes to 0, with 8 abstentions.
(114) Paragraph 29.14, Regulation 9.1.1, sub-  paragraph (a), was adopted by 34 votes to 0, with
14 abstentions.
(115) Paragraph 29.14, sub-paragraph (b), was  adopted by 31 votes to 7, with 12 abstentions.
(118) Paragraph 29.14, the last sub-paragraph,  reading: ''No termination ... shall take effect, "  etc. was adopted by 48 votes to 0, with 2  abstentions.
(117) Parsgraph 29,15, Regulation 9.3, was  adopteu by 45 vntes to 0, with 5 abstentions,
(118) Resolution 29.2 was adopted by 47 votes to
0, with 4 abstentions,
(119) Resolution 30: Statutes of the Appeals Board  was adopted by 48 votes to 0, with 2 abstentions.
(3120) Resolution 31 - 31.2: Recognition of the  Competence of International Administrative  Tribunals was adopted by 49 votes to 0, with 1  abstention,  Section D: Official and External Relations
(121) Draft resolution 32 (32.1 to 32.5 inclusive)  was adopted unanimousiy.  Recommendations of the Executive Board regarding  applications by international non-governmental  organizations for admission to consultative  arrangements.
(122) The PRESIDENT (Translation fror the Spanish):  I call upon the delegate of the USSR,
(123) Mr. SOLDATOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) (Translation from the Russian): Mr.  President, gentlemen, as regards draft resolution
33, submitted by the Administrative Commission,  the Soviet delegation would like to dwell for a  moment on two recommendations of the Commission,  in connexion with the International Union of Students  and the World Federation of Democratic Youth.  These two organizations have applied for consulta-  tive arrangements with Unesco. The Administrative  Commission, after considering the matter, took  what we consider a wrong decision. The decision  was to postpone consideration of the applications of  these two organizations until the ninth session of  the General Conference; ! may mention, incidentally,  that, during the discussion of this question in the  Administrative Commission, those who proposed  postponing decision until the ninth session adduced  no arguments proving the need for so doing. In the  opinion of the Soviet delegation, there are no grounds  at all for postponement until the next session. It is  common knowledge that the International Union of  Students and the World Federation of Democratic  Youth play an active part in the development of  international co-operation in the very fields with  - 202 -   PLENARY  which Unesco also is concerned: the fields of  education, science and culture. Accordingly, in  view of the widely representative character of both  these organizations and the contribution they can  make to the achievement of Unesco's aims, the  Soviet Union supports the applications of both  organizations for consultative arrangements with  Unesco.
(124) At the same time, I should like to recall that  all those here present are well aware that both the  organizations in question have already taken an  active part in Unesco's work, and have had consulta-  tive arrangements. The Soviet delegation therefore  submits for the consideration of the plenary meeting  a proposal to the effect that the International Union  and the World Federation be accepted for consultative  arrangeinents.
(125) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  The delegate of Czechoslovakia seconds the draft  amendment submitted by the delegate of the USSR,
(126) If no delegate wishes to speak, a vote will be  taken on the proposed amendment.
(127) The amendment is rejected by 35 votes to 6,  with 9 abstentions.
(128) A vote will now be taken on the draft resolution  as submitted by the Commission.
(128) Resolution 33 - 33. 2 is adopted by 41 votes to
6, with 3 abstentions.
(130) Resolution 34 - 34.2: Renewal of formal  agreements concluded with non-governmental  organizations was adopted unanimously.  Section E: Legal Questions
(131) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  We now come to resolution 35.1. This is an amend-  ment to Article II, consisting of the addition of 2 new  paragraph 6, and is given an page 30 of the English  text, A two-thirds majority is needed for this  amendment,
(132) The amendment is adopted by 48 votes to 1,  with no abstentions,
(133) We now pass to paragraph 35.23: paragraph
9 of Articie V will be replaced by the passage  appearing on page 31 of the English text, reading as  follows: "The Chairman of the Executive Board  shall present, on behalf of the Board, to each  ordinary session of the General Conference, with or  without comments, the reports on the activities of  the Organization which the Director-General is  required to prepare in accordance with the provisions  of Article V1.3.b,".
(134) This draft resolution was adopted  unanimously.
(135) Resolution 35.3: Amendment to Article VI:  paragraph 3 of Article VI to be replaced by the text  appearing on page 32 ol the English version of the  document.  - 203 -     MEETINGS 1-16
(136) The draft resolution waa adopted unanimously,  as was also resolution 36,
(137) Resolution 37 (37.1 to 37.31 and 37,35 ta
37.38) was adopted unanimously.  Section F: General Qu>stions: Reports of the  Headquarters Committee on the progress of the  project (document 8C/ADM/24)
(138) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):
1 call upon the delegate of France.
(139) Mr. JUVIGNY (France) (Translation from  the French): Mr. President, it is stated in the  report of the Administrative Commission that the  Commission took note of the Director-General's  report on the Headquarters Agreement between the  French Government and the Organization.
(140) Now that the first stone of Unesco's perman-  ent headquarters building is about to be laid in the  very heart of Paris, I should like to repeat, on  behalf of the French delegation, how proud and  happy our country is that the international palace  of education, science and culture is being built  on her soil.
(141) If the French Government, when signing the  Headquarters Agreement, consented to substantial  limitations on its national sovereignty, it was  because it was fully conscious of the great compli-  ment which 72 States were paying to France. ! am  able to confirm that the French parliament now has  before it the text of the Headquarters Agreement  signed on 2 July last by the Director-General and  the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs. The  French delegation hopes that this agreement will  very soon be ratified.
(142) The PRESIDE WT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call upon the ~'rzztor-General.
(143) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL: Mr. President,
1 should like to thank the French delegate for what  he has said and to assure this Conference thai the  Secretariat's relations with the French Government  in this matter are a cause of great satisfaction to  me. If you knew the details of our negotiations and  the concessions which the French Government has  made, you would be happy indeed and would applaud  the wonderful spirit of co-operation and of hospitality  which has been shown us by the French Government,
(144) The PRESIDENT {Translation from the Spanish):  If no delegate wishes to speak, a vote will be taken  on draft resolution No, 40 - 40.3.
(145) This resolution is adopted unanimously.
(146) I call upon the delegate of the USSR,
(147) Mr. SOLDATOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) (Translation from the Russian): Mr.  President, at the beginning of our work today on  the report of the Admanistrative Commission, the  Soviet delegation, as you remember, stated that it  would submit two questions for consideration by  the plenary meeting. The first question we lave   U-18 PLENARY  already discussed; the second concerns the adopticn  of Russian as à working language of the Executive  Board. 1 should like now to deal with this second  question since, I understand, we have come to the  end of our consideration of one section, so that I  can now take up this matter without interfering with  the rest of our work.
(148) The Soviet delegation thinks it very important,  from the point of view of the Soviet Union's contribu-  tion to the work of the United Nations Educational,  Scientific and Cultural Organization, that Russian  should be, not only a working language of the General  Conference, as has already been decided, but aiso a  working language of the Executive Board. In this  connexion, i. is essential, apart from everything  else, to bear practical considerations in mind,  since the Executive Board will meet several times a  year, i.e. five, or sometimes even six times in the  period between the sessions of the General  Conference, and discuss a whole series of important  practical questions directly bearing on the work of  our Organization.
(149) As you know, a representative of the Soviet  Union, Mr. Solcdovnikov, has been elected to  membership of the Executive Board, which, I think,  in itself gives a practical significance to the problem  of making Russian a working language of the Board.
(150) Some people have said that attention must be  paid to the financial cost which this step would involve.  In my opinion, delegates, account must also be taken  of arother very important fact - namely that the  Russian-speaking delegations (the delegations of the  Soviet Union, the Ukrainian and the Byelorussian  Republics) pay, in accordance with the scale of  contributions laid down by the General Conference,  the sum of $2,853, 000 over the two-year period - a  large sum, nearly $3,000,000 in two years. On the  other hand, the cost of making Russian a working  language of the Executive Board would be only  $49,000 - $48,000 over two years. In other words,  the cost of making Russian a working language oi the  Board would represent a mere fraction of the  contributions paid by these three'delegations. To  say nothing of the fact that a number of othe: delega-  tions, which also pay large contributions to our  Organization, are interested in seeing Russian  become a working language of the Executive Board,  as they stated quite clea-ly when this question was  discussed in the Administrative Commission.
(151) Thus, the financial costs, if it is a matter of  that, are, as you see, very small, As regards the  general impor ance of the Russian language and the  development of world culture, I do not think I should  waste the time of the delegates to this Conference by  enlarging on the subject, since every person active  in the fields of science, culture, literature and  education knows very well, without any discourse  from me, the importance of the part which the  Russian language has played and is playing in the  development of world culture. Moreover, we should  take account of the fact that in the United Nations,  for instance, Russian ranks as a practical working  language along with the other official languages of  the Organization. We are asking that the documents  of the Executive Board be printed in the Russian  language and that, at the m.etings of the Board,  there be interpretation into Russian and, when our  - 204 -     MEETINGS  representative speaks, from Russian into the other  languages. All this is done in the United Nations,  in ail seven Committees and in the plenary meetings;  it is also done in the United Nations councils, such  as the Security Council, the Economic and Social  Council and the Trusteeship Council, not to speak  of the many commissions set up by the General  Assembly itself and by the Councils of the United  Nations. Thus, though we are told, as we often are,  that we follow the example set by the United Nations,  we are in fact, in this matter, lagging considerably  behind the practices already adopted by the United  Nations in regard to the Russian language.
(152° The delegation of the Soviet Union therefore  hopes that the following draft resolution will be  favourably received and adopted by the General  Conference:  The General Conference,  “Decides that the Russian l-.guage shall be one  of the working languages of the Executive Board,"
(153) In this connexion, I do not need to make  special mention of the fact that, when the question  of making Spanish a working language of the  Executive Board was being discussed, the Soviet  delegation supported that proposal long before the  question came up before the General Conference,  i.e. in July of this year after the Sovict Union joined  Unesco. Nor do I need to point out that a favourable  decision on this question, i.e. on the question of  making Russian a working language of the Executive  Board, will constitute proof of the fact that the  majority of the Member States of Unesco attach real  ard profound significance to the development of  practical co-operation amongst the members of our  Organization,
(154) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):
1 was glad to call upon the delegate of the USSR to  speak on this question, but the Secretariat informs  me that the matter raised by the delegate of the  USSR is already being studied by the Programme  and Budget Com:nission, which will submit its  report, when ready, to the plenary Conference.
(155) I therefore feel, if the Conference has no  objection, that we must postpone discussion of this  question until the Programme and Budget Commission  submits its report for consideration by the plenary  meeting,
(156) I call upon the delegate of Ecuador.
(157) Mr. TERAN ROBALINO (Ecuador) (Trans-  lation from the Spanish): Mr. President, ladies  and gentlemen, with regard to the report which the  Conference has been discussing this afternoon, the  delegaiion of Ecuador wishes merely to mention  one particularly important point - the resolution  whereby Article V of the Unesco Constitution,  concerning the composition of the Executive Board,  was amended. Since the delegation of Ecuador was  not present at the plenary meeting at which those  amendments were passed, I would like to take this  opportunity of stating the position of my country and  my Government on this fundamental issue, The  delegation of Ecuador earnestly requests that it be  stated in the records of this. meeting that Ecuador  endorses the stand taken by those delegations which  opposed the amendments to Article V of the Constitution.   PLENARY
(158) Ecuador wishes to add its voice to the wise and  authoritative protests of those countries which opposed  the amendments, The President of Ecuador, Dr.  Velazco Ibarra, a statesman and a man of wide  culture, interprets the spiritual values and the  natioral genius of his country with real authority and  ferveit convictivn, Ecuador and its Government  have therefore, from the very first, held the view  that the amendments to Article V might in practice  compromise the principles for which this lofty  institution of the United Nations was established.
(159) The delegation of Ecuador trusts that Unesco  will, nevertheless, always stand fast by the true and  genuine virtues of its early days and that, notwith-  standing the political interests of the moment, the  enduring values of culture, science and education  will continue to guide the thought and action of the  Organization,
(160) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):
1 call upon the delegate of the USSR,
(161) Mr. SOLDATOV [T..vu of Soviet Socialist  Republics) (Translation from the Russian): Mr.  President, I should like to clear up the position as  regards the use of Russian as a working language of  the Executive Board. After I had spoken, you stated  that this question is to be discussed by the Programme  and Budget Commission. The fact is that the question  of the use of Russian as a working language of the  General Conference was discussed in the Admini-  strative Commission and that, in accordance with  the resolution adopted by that Commission, a decision  was then taken by the plenary meeting of the General  Conference. If the position now is that this question  is being discussed or will be discussed, as the  Secretariat states, by the Programme and Budget  Commission, the Soviet delegation would like to  know when that discussion is to take place.
(162) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Sir, according to the Secretariat, the procedure  might be to refer the proposal to the Programme  and Budget Commission,
(163) Mr, SOLDATOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) (Translation from the Russian): Mr.  President, if 1 have understood your explanation  aright, you are propos’ ‘g thai the plenary Conference  should refer this quesuon for consideration by the  Programme and Budget Commission. If this is the  case, the Soviet delegation has no objection to this  questicn first being considered by the Programme  and Budget Commission, but would like to know  when this will be done, an) whether it can be done  tomorrow,
(164) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Very well, I will transmit the request of the delegate  of the USSR to the Programme and Budget Commission,  which will discuss this question tomorrow, so that it  can report immediately to the plenary Conference,
(165) I call upon the delegate of the United States of  America.
(166) Mr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America):  Mr. President, I am sorry to have to raise a point  - 205 -     MEETINGS H-16  of order on this matter, but it is one, I hope, that  will not delay but may perhaps expedite our business.  It seems to my delegation that some error was  committed in the presentation of this report. The  paragraphs on the last page of the report which deal  with Working Languages are paragraphs which were  fully discussed in the Administrative Commission,  to which these questions had been referred. They  were discussed, they were voted on and, as such,  they shculd be presented to the plenary Conference  as recommendations of the Administrative Commis-  sion and not as something that has to go to yet  another committee - the Programme and Budget  Commission. It is, in our opinion. obviously out  of order and would lead to unending confusion if  matters which had already been decided, and clearly  decided, 1n one committee, were to be referred to  another of the major committees before they can  come to us here. This is the kind of duplication  that we think should be avoided and, without taking  any position on the substance of the issue, I would  think that the distinguished representative of the  Union of Soviet Socialist Republics would be as well  satisfied as anybody else if this matter could be  settled here and now.
(167) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I cal! upon the Chairman of the Administrative  Commission.
(168) Mr. BEEBY (Chairman of the Administrative  Commission): Mr. President, can I perhaps help  to simplify this situation? It so happens that the  question of working languages was referred to the  Administrative Commission in two separate items  of its agenda. If you take item 9.2 of the revised  agenda, you find there, Examination of the Report  of the Advisory Committee on Parts I, III and IV of  the budget, and Report to the Programme Commis-  sion. Now, Part III of the budget included the item  on working languages, presumably on the cost of  those working languages, and since that was its  first appearance before our Commission, we  discussed it then and reported to the Programme  Commission on it. You may remember that, when  the Rapporteur of the Administrative Commission  was presenting his report to the plenary meeting,  it was decided that that portion should be postponed.  But if you look at item 9.8 of our revised agenda,  you will find the whole subject of a heading is  Working Languages; thus we had to report directly  to this body on working languages. So I think, Mr.  President, that you will be quite in order in accept-  ing a debate here, or a recognition here of the  principle of working languages, since we had the  right and the duty to report to you directly,  although we also had to report to the Programme  Commission under the other item of our agenda.
(169) The PRESIDENT {Translation from the  Spanish): In accordance with the information  we have now been given, 1 think that, as we  are already in possession of reports from the  Administrative Commission, we can study and  vote on the Soviet delegate's proposal at this  meeting, provided that the Conference agrees  to this procedure,   n-1s PLENARY
(170) I call upon the delegate of Poland.
(171) Mr. MICHALOWSKI (Poland) (Translation  from the Russian): In view of your decision, I! should  like, on behalf of the Polish delegation, warmly to  support the Soviet delegation's proposal regarding  the acceptance of Russian as a working language,  not only of the General Conference, but oi the  Executive Board of Unesco as well. ! should like to  point out that the language of the great Russian  nation is, at the present day, the international  languege not only of the peoples of the Soviet Union,  but also of a large number of other countries; and  serves as the vehicle of communication at many  conferences for international co-operation and  cultural relations. Many of the countries where the  knowledge of Russian is widespread are now Members  of our Organization. We therefore see no reason  for putting Russian on a different footing from the  other working languages of Unesco. “n these grounds,  the Polish delegation supports the Soviet proposal,  and will vote for its adoption.
(172) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):
1 call upon the delegate of China.
(173) Mr. CHEN YUAN (China): Mr. President,  fellow delegates, the Clinese delegation was opposed  to the adoption of Russian as a working language for  the General Conference, and is still more opposed  to its adoption for the Executive Board. The argu-  ments advanced for adoption of Russian seem to us  unconvincing and unjustified. One is that Russian  is a great language. We do not wish to deny that,  No one will deny that the langu>ge of Tolstoy and  Turgenev, Dostoevsky and Tchekhov is a great  language. But there are many great languages in  the world. There is the language of Dante and  Petrarch; there is the language of Goethe, Schiller  and Heine, and there is the language of Confucius  and Lao-Tsu, of Chuang-Tsu, of Chu-Yuan, of Li  Po and Tu Fu. There are many other great languages.  If all great languages were to be made into working  languages of Unesco or the General Conference, the  number would be very large indeed. It would be  quite impossible to make the system work.  {174) Another argument is that Unesco should follow  the United Nations. But five languages are used in  the United Nations and there it no proposal to use  all of the five in Unesco.
(175) The only justifiable argument in favour of  adopting a language as a working language, is that  it meets the convenience of a large number of  delegates and delegations. That is why my delegation  warmly supported the adoption of Spanish as a  working language. It is not because the language of  Cervantes and Calderôn is a great language. It is  aot because Spanish is used in the United Nations.  It was only for the reason that Spanish is the mother  tongue of about 20 Member States of Unesco that we  supported the proposal whole-heartedly.
(176) If the convenience of a number of delegations  is to be the criterion, we believe that Arabic should  take precedence of Russian, as there are, I believe
6 or 7 Member States whose mother tongue is  Arabic and only 3 whose mother tongue is  Russian.  - 206 -     MEETINGS
(177) As for the Executive Board, we cannot see  a shadow of a reason for making Russian a working  language. It is true that, after the elections of  yesterday, there is now a Russian member on the  Executive Board, but he is the only member who  speaks Russian. I find that at least 16 native  languages are spoken by the 22 members of the  Executive Board. Any one of the three working  languages now adopted is spoken by a large number  of members of the Executive Board - more or less  perhaps. It is sheer arrogan:e to demand that one  language out of the other thirteen, spoken by only  one of the 22 members, should be singled out to be  made into an additional working language. Apart  from the large expense and the waste of time  involved, the proposal cannot be accepted in  principle on any grounds. Therefore, my delegation  is strongly opposed to the proposal to make Russian  a working language of the Executive Board.
(178) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call upon the Rapporteur.
(179) Mr. ERIKSSON (Rapporteur of the Admini-  strative Commission): 1 would like to suggest that  the two paragraphs on page 41 concerning the  Spanish and Russian languages can stand as they  are. The text is as it was contained in the  recommendations to the Programme Commission,  But we can add to page 40, under the last section  there, a new Section III, which would read:  "Adoption of Spanish as a working language of the  Executive Board'', and then, as a draft resolution,  take the text from page 41 "That henceforth, the  Spanish language be one of the working languages  of the Executive Board." That should, in that case,  be resolution No. 41.
(180) Then we could add another Section IV "Adoption  of Russian as a Working Language of Unesco". The  resolution would become No. 42 and would read:  "That the Russian language be a working language  of the General Conference", I think that is the  simplest way to settle this question.
(181) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call on the Legal Adviser.
(182) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) (Translation from  the French): Mr. President, gentlemen, I wish  merely to point out that, so far as the use of  Russian as a working language of the General  Conference is concerned, you have already adopted  texts amending the Rules of Procedure of the  General Conference to make Russian a working  language of the General Conference in the same  way as French, English and Spanish. This point  is already covered by the vote you have taken.
(183) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call upon the delegate of Czechoslovakia.
(184) Mr. HAYEK (Czechosiovakia) (Translation  from the Russian): Mr. President, the Czechoslovak  delegation wishes to support the proposal of the  Soviet delegation to the effect that Russian be made  a language of the Executive Board. For the peoples  of the greater part of Europe, Russian constitutes   PLENARY  the first international language, the first language  for international intercourse. For these peoples,  therefore, participation in Unesco's work would be  immensely facilitated if all the documents of the  Organization, including those of the Executive Board,  were issued in Russian. The Czechoslovak delegation  therefore supports the request that Russian be made  a language of the Executive Board,
(185) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  The debate continues. 1 call upon the Director-  General,
(186) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL: Mr. President:  As you know, this is my first General Conference  since becoming Director-General and I have not been  able to find in the Constitution and in the Rules and  Regulations of the Organization a clear definition of  what the duty of the Director-General is in relation  to political issues, as well as certain issues of  substance which are not political, and many other  issues that are before the Executive Board and the  General Conference, Hence, if I am out of order in  making a suggestion nere, I assure you that it is for  the purpose of trying to help this Conference make  Unesco a unified, a harmonious, Organization; it is  for the purpose of promoting coexistence, which all  of you have approved as a principle, and it is also  for the purpose of helping solve a budget problem.
1 feel sure that some of you who are thinking about  this problem, are wondering what projects the  Programme Commission would have to cut out in  order to find $49,000. I therefore take the liberty  of presenting to you for consideration a compromise  text which may possibly facilitate the work of the  Conference. It is as follows: "The General Confer-  ence authorizes the Director-General, subject to the  approval of transfers for this purpose by the Execu-  tive Board, to provide the services of interpretation  and translation from and into the Russian language,  necessary for the effective participation of any  member of the Executive Board in the work of the  Board". Let me explain that the sum transferred  should be less than the $49, 000 and all money spent  would be subject to the prior approval of the Executive  Board. Now the Executive Board, under the  Constitution, has the power - subject to the  instructions of the General Conference - to make  its own Rules of Procedure, so that it would have to  do two things: it would have tc change its Rules of  Procedure and it would have to grant the necessary  funds by transfer. This would leave the budget as it  comes from the hands of the Programme Commission  to you tomorrow, undisturbed. I understand that the  Programme Commission has already voted the  Appropriation Resolution and it would be difficult to  get that matter reopened, but, by the means I have  suggested, that would be unnecessary and the Board  would be ieft to judge the matter on its merits before  any action were taken,
(187) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call upon the delegate of India.
(188) Dr. MUDALIAR (India): At this almost final  stage of our Conference, which has ended in every  one of its Commissions in a harmonious spirit, the  - 207 -     MEETINGS 11-16  delegation of India is most anxious that nothing  shall disturb the tranquillity with which we have so  far conducted our proceedings. It is with that  conviction, and in the hope that what | have to say  may appeal to all of you, that I have requested the  President to allow me a few minutes to speak on  this question. My task has been considerably  lightened by the proposal that the Director-General  has been pleased to make - a proposal with which  my delegation fully agrees.
(189) If I may be permitted to say so, the position  is one of difficulty, not because we do not recognize  the importance of the language, not for any of those  considerations that have unfortunately crept into  this discussion, but because we feel, as the  Director-General has already told you, that the  Programme and Budget Commission has completed  its labours, and that anything done at this late date  would unfortunately disturb the programme and  budget to a considerable extent.
(190) If you will permit me to use my experience  in other international organizations where a some-  what similar situation arose, it has been found  possible to satisfy the delegates of the Executive  Board in the matter of interpretation by an inter-  preter sitting beside the person who spoke, and by  providing all facilities for the interpretation of  certain documents. This is not a final solution,  nor do I suggest that the question should not be  examined and submitted to the ninth session of the  Conference, One thing I suggest is that, having  accepted Russian as an official language of the  General Conference under Rule 52 - Working  Languages, this Conference should place Russian  as one of the working languages at the General  Conference beside English, French and Spanish. I  would appeal to my friends who wish Russian to be  introduced as a working language in the Executive  Board, that they kindly consider the difficulties of  the present situation and accept the proposal of the  Director-General as a compromise. This would  enable them to see later after the ninth session,  whether they can have it as a working language for  the Executive Board. In so saying I am trying to  avoid a situation which may give rise to a feeling  that there has been some lack of appreciation of  the position adopted by the Soviet delegation. In  that manner 1 would appeal to them to consider the  possibility of accepting the suggestion by the  Director-General.
(191) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):
1 call upon the delegate of Uruguay.
(192) Mr. SECCO ELLAURI (Uruguay) (Translation  from the Spanish): Mr. President, ladies and  gentlemen, I asked to speak before ! knew that the  delegate of India wa: going to make the speech he  has just made; for our position resembles his so  closely that we are actually working on a proposal  similar to that submitted by the Director-General.  The position, as we see it, is as follows: it is not  a question of comparing Russian with other languages  that might be used by Unesco. It is a case of  striving for a realistic understanding of the  question, in the light of the fact that Russian has  been adopted as a fourth working language of the   II-16 PLENARY  Gereral Conference. This, sooner or later, must  have repercussions in other sectors of the admini-  stration of Unesco. It is my belief that, once a  language has been accepted as a working language of  the General Conterence, it must inevitably, in the  long run, end by making its way into tke work of the  Executive Board as well. This is a fact.
(193) And this is precisely what has happened with  Spanish. There was a time when Spanish was a  working language of the General Conference, but  not of the Executive Board. We Spanish-speaking  delegates have gradually, thanks to the understanding  attitude of our colleagues on the Executive Board,  secured full recognition of Spanish as a working  language of the Board.
(194) 1 remember being present at the meeting of  the Administrative Commission at which the question  of Russian was dis-ussed, It was said at that time  that Russian would have to wait, as Spanish had done,  to gain acceptance in the Executive Board, I must  admit that this argument does not convince me. We  who had to pay the price of passing through these  slow stages do not wish to force any other working  language to go through the same process.
(195) In our view, the fact that a language is used  in the General Conference but not yet in the Executive  Board in no sense implies any sort of slight on the  country concerned. But we do, in this instance,  think that the adoption of Russian as a language of  the Executive Board should be facilitated.
(196) The Administrative Commission discussed  this question at a time when it was still uncertain  whether or not ‘he USSR would be represented on the  Fxecutive Board; and I have no doubt that this  circumstance influenced the views of many delegates.  Now, the position has changed: we are faced not  with a possibility, but with a fact. But there is a  very serious financial objection to this claim for the  use of Russian. There can be no question of our  sacrificing important sections of our programme in  order to find the sum of $50, 000 which represents  the estimated cost of the adoption of Russian.
(197) I consider, therefore, that the best solution  at the moment, the most equitable one, and the one  best calculated to avoid all difficulties, is to follow  the course indicated in the motion which has just  been submitted by the Director-General, and which  we endorse.
(198) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call upon the delegate of Hungary.
(199) Mr. TAMAS (Hungary) (Translation from the  Spanish): Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen,  whilst entirely agreeing with the spirit of the remarks  made by the Director-General and the delegate of  India, I am deeply convinced that the adoption of  Russien as a working language both of the General  Conference and of the Executive Board would be  most useful and conducive to the growth of co-  operation and mutual understanding among the  Member States of Unesco.
(200) The delegate of Cuba, amidst warm applause,  expressed his pleasure that the Union of Soviet  Socia'’st Republics, with its outstanding literary  tradition, is here with us, We must, I think,  draw the logical conclusions.  - 208 -     MEETINGS
(201) Some delegates, in the Administrative  Commission, suggested that the delegation of the  USSR should speak in the languages of other  Member States. But those delegates were forgetting  that Russian is the medium of communication  between dozens of nations and that there are among  us many delegates who wish to take Russian as  their working language.
(202) I myself am Hungarian, and it gives me  pleasure to speak in Spanish; but there is no reason  to thwart the many other delegates who wish to use  Russian.
(203) We delegates to the eighth session of the  General Conference of Unesco have said much about  the universality of Unesco, the strengthening of ties  between the peoples, and mutual understanding; in  my opinion, the way to promote those ideals in  Unesco is to open the doors to all science and culture  worthy of the name, so that Unesco becomes a  veritable focus for the lofty ideals of mankind.  Russian culture, literature and science enshrine  some of the greatest treasures of mankind. and |  think it is incumbent on TInesco to see that those  treasures are used, For all these reasons, I  propose that the General Conference adopt Russian  as a working language.
(204) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call on the delegate of the United States of America,
(205) Mr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America):  Mr. President, on this stand fifteen minutes ago,  I had the honour to suggest that we ought to tackle  this question, wkich was reintroduced by the  distinguished representative of the USSR, this very  evening, and I am glad that you permitted the  discussion to go on after that intervention.
(206) When I made the suggestion, it was, of  course, on the understanding that we would vote on  the concise proposal which had been discussed  earlier in the Administrative Commission, and  which had been reintroduced by the distinguished  representative of Soviet Russia. We are now,  however, confronted with a new situation. The  Director-General has put before this plenary  meeting a resolution, and a rather complicated  resolution. Frankly, my delegation has not been  able to grasp its full import. We do not know  whether we are now talking about the Russian  language, or whether we are talking about the  language of any of the Executive Board who do not  speak English, French or Spanish. Under these  circumstances, Mr. President, it seems to us,  again without taking a position on the Director-  General's proposal, that this proposal should be  presented to the Conference in writing and that the  final vote be postponed until the next plenary  meeting. That is the proposal I would like to put  forward.
(207) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Spanish): Since this is a procedural motion, it  takes precedence, The motion is that the pro-  posal be circulated in writing, and that the  discussion on it be postponed until the next  plenary meeting. I call on the delegate of ihe  USSR.   PLENARY
(208) Mr. SOLDATOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) {Translation from the Russian): Mr.  President, I, evidently, am also speaking on a  procedural motion; that is why I took the floor. To  begin with, ! would like to point out that, speaking  on a point of order, I have in any case the right to  reply before we take a decision on the question  raised by the representative of the United States of  America; and since I have that right, I shall  continue to speak, in this instance, about the  substance of the question, and not about the proce-  dure to be adopted at this meeting.
(209) The Soviet delegation does not think it  necessary here to dwell on the unworthy manoeuvres  countenanced by a person who has no country and  who is, naturally, indifferent to the fate of Unesco  and to whether or not it is successful in developing  and strengthening international co-operation in the  realms of education, science and culture. We  consider it unworthy to dwell on his speech, even  as we consider it unworthy that this gentleman  should be present in our Organization,
(210) I come now to the substance of the question.  The Soviet delegation is grateful to those delegations  which have spoken here in support of the proposal to  make Russian a working language of the Executive  Board of Unesco. We are grateful also to those  delegations which have taken up an understanding  attitude towsrds our proposal. I have in mind,  firstly, the Indian and Uruguayan delegations, 1  would also like to make special mention, in this  connexion, of the spirit of co-operation and go-dwill  displayed by the Director-General of Unesco who, in  our view, is doing everything in his power to solve  this problem on the basis of the real needs of the  United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural  Organization - which he is, of course, better placed  to appreciate than are other persons who are not so  closely and directly concerned with the practical  work of our Organization. The Soviet delegation of  course considers that the correct decision would be  to accept Russian as a working language of the  Fxecutive Board, and no objections can be adduced  against this perfectly legitimate arrangement. But  at the same time we understand the practical diffi-  culties in the way of an affirmative decision on this  issue.
(211) In this connexion, I am empowered by the  Soviet delegation to state that, in view of the fact  that ft is impossible, at the present moment, to  take a final decision on the subject of the use of  Russian as a working language of the Executive  Board, the Soviet delegation is not cpposed to the  proposal which was suomitied by the Director-  General of our Organization and which, as we  understand the text, refers quite clearly to the  Russian language. It runs as follows:  "The General Conference  Authorizes the Director-General, subject to the  approval of transfers for this purpose by the  Executive Board, to provide the necessary services  of interpretation and translation from and into the  Russian language, for the effective participation of  any member of the Executive Board in the work of  the Board".
(212) It is thus absolutely clear, from this proposal,  that it is a case of the Russian language: so that the  ME     - 208 -  ETINGS I-18  doubts expressed by one of the delegates here are,  as you see, completely groundless,
(213) Such are the comments I wished to make on  the speeches which dealt with this subject. We  consider that, at the present moment, a positive  decision on the basis proposed by the Director-  General would serve to promote the co-operation  about which we have been talking so much at this  meeting.
(214) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Spanish): 1 call upon the delegate of Australia.
(215) Mr, KELLY (Australia): Mr. President, on  behalf of the Australian delegation, 1 rise to  support postponement of the discussion of this  question, and I do so for a number of reasons,  one of the most important of which is this - that  the speaker who immediately preceded me intro-  duced for the first time into this Assembly a note  of personal attack which I, for one, deplore. 1  speak as a citizen of a free country that has  welcomed to its shores the free citizens of other  lands, no matter what their home language.
(216) Secondly, I supvort the adjournment of this  debate for the reason that my delegation has not  had time to see the actual text of the motion  initiated by the Director-General. I also support  adjournment because I feel that such an alternative  proposal might well have been placed at some stage  before the Administrative Commission, which  spent much time discussing this proposal. A  suggestion not put before delegates in writing  cannot now receive full consideration, and it is a  proposal which requires consideration, not only as  a gesture of sympathy towards a great people -  and the Russian people are a great people - but  chiefly and principally because we are not now  discussing the extension of Russian as a medium of  culture throughout the world. We are discussing  simply the more efficient operation of our Executive  Board, And I find that, on that Board, there is  only one representative who can claim Russian as  his home language. 1 wonder, speaking of this  proposal, whether some other delegate may not  propose that Portuguese be also adopted as a  working language of the Executive Board, and thus  pay homage to two great peoples, the peoples of  Portugal and of Brazil. I look at the Executive  Board, and ! find on it many representatives,  Moslem and Christian, of the Arabic-speaking  peoples, and I wonder if at this late hour someone  else may not propose the adoption of Arabic,  partially or wholly, as a working language of the  Executive Board.
(217) This is a practical issue which must be  studied by delegates in the light of the actual work-  ing requirements of the Executive Board. The  Director -General's suggestion requires further  consideration, and I therefore invite yoy to support  the proposal for the adjournment of this debate.
(218) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Spanish): We shall now take a vote. Since one  representative has spoken in favour, and one  against, we shall now, in accordance with the  Rules of Procedure, take a vote on the motion of   Uu-17  the United States delegate for adjournment of the  debate on this question.
(219) For the information of the delegate of the  USSR, 1 would point mut that the Rules of Procedure  require that motions which have precedence shall  be voted on after one representative has spoken in  favour, and one against. As this has been done,  the President must take a vote on the motion. We  shall now vote on the motion of the delegate of the  United States of America, that the debate on the  Director-General's proposal be adjourned until the  plenary meeting tomorrow.
(220) I call upon the delegate of the USSR.
(221) Mr, SOLDATOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) (Translation from the Russian): Mr.  President, I evidently misunderstood the position,  since in fact I was speaking rot on a point of order,  but in reply to the speeches which were made here  on the subject of our proposal. Hence no objection  PLENARY MEETINGS  was raised by the S- viet delegation to adjourning  the debate on this subject,
(222) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  We shall now take a vote on the motion for adjourn-  ment proposed by the delegate of the United States  of America,
(223) The motion for adjournment is adopted by 48  votes to 0, with 4 abstentions.
(224) A vote will now be taken on the new resolution
41, dealing with adoption of Spanish as a working  language of the Executive Board.
(225) Resolution 41 is adopted by 48 votes to 0,  with 2 abstentions.   The meeting rose at 7.35 p.m.  SEVENTEENTH PLENARY MEETING
10 December 1954 at 10.45 a.m.  President: ‘Ar. ZAVALA MUNIZ (Uruguay)  CONTENTS  Consideration of draft resolution concerning the use of the  Russian language at the Executive Board ( documents
8C/DR/124 rev. and 126). 801 2 000 0 0 0 10 6  Consideration and adoption of the Report of the Administrative  Commission (continued) . . . PEN  Consideration and adoption of the Report of the Programme  and Budget Commission (documents 8C/PRG/30 and
8C/BUD/6 rev. 2) uv vt vv tt tte 4 tee eee  Need for making Unesco a global organization (documents
8C/DR/4 and Add., BC/DR/120 and 8C/DR/128).
(1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  The General Coramittee announces that the newly  elected Executive Board will hold its first meeting  and elect its Chairman at 9. 30 tomorrow morning,  in Room 2,  CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION CONCERNING THE USE  OF THE RUSSIAN LANGUAGE AT THE EXECUTIVE BOARD (docu-  meats 8C/DR/124 rev. and 128)
(2) I cali upon the delegate of India.
(3) Dr. MUDALIAR (India): Mr. President and    - 210 -  fellow delegates: the draft resolution that my  delegation has the honour to submit for the consi-  deration of this plenary meeting, runs as follows:  "The General Conference authorizes the Director-  General, subject to the approval of transfers for  this purpose by the Executive Board, to provide the  necessary services of interpretation and translation  from and into the Russian language to the extent  compatible with the efficient operation of the Board  for the effective participation of any member of the  Executive Board in the work of the Board. "
(4) When we adjourned late on Thuraday, it was  felt that a document should be made available in all