COMMITTEE ON REPCRTS OF MEMBER BTATES  interest that country had taken in Unesco.  Netherlands
(38) The report mentioned signature of the Copyright  Convention and contained information on the  implementation of Unesco resolutions.
(39) The National Commission was clearly very  active. The Netherlands Unesco Centre, working  under its auspices, dealt with problems of mass  communication, It issued press releases, published  a monthly news bulletin and promoted the sale of  Unesco publications.
(40) The Netherlands acknowledged assistance from  Unesco after the flood disaster. Money raised by  the Gift Coupon Scheme had aided educational  reconstruction,
(41) The working party, Miss Bishop concluded,  stressed the importance of a statement made in the  report to the effect that it was found difficult to  present Unesco to the general public as a living  reality. The Netherlands felt that the Centre should  devote its attention to forming an improved  information service.  New Zealand
(42) New Zealand had decided not to sign the Visual  and Auditory Materials Agreement, but its ratifi-  cation of the Importation Convention was expected in  the near future; the Copyright Convention was being  considered,
(43) Interesting information was given on the  implementation of Unesco resolutions.
(44) The National Commission was mainly concerned  with stabilizing work done in the different fields.  Union of South Africa
(45) The attitude of this Member State to the Visual  and Auditory Materials Convention was not clearly  stated. It had been decided not to sign the  Computation Centre Agreement. The Union of  South Africa, being a member of the Berne Convention,    X-6  did not feel bound to sign the Copyright Convention.
(46) Unesco resolutions had been implemented in  various fields (education, natural science and  cultural activities).
(47) The South African National Commission was  still an interim body. It worked largely throwgh the  National Advisory Council for Adult Education and  its standing committees for arts, science, adult  education and physical education. There was little  public interest in the work and purposes of Unesco.  Indonesia
(48) Although the Importation Convention had not  been signed, facilities had been granted for the  importation of scientific equipment. The Copyright  Convention had not yet been adequa*ely considered  by the National Commission. The Government was  in favour of joining the Berne Convention.
(49) As to implementation of Unesco resolutions,  close cn-operation was kept up with Unesco through  the Unesco Affairs Section of the Ministry of  Education. The National Commission did not  however keep Unesco sufficiently informed of  operations, Several Unesco officials had visited the  country. Unesco's he! was found particularly  useful over technical assistance.
(50) The National Commission, formed in 1951,  now consisted of 33 members, under the  chairmanship of the Minister of Education.
(51) Some work had been done to promote under-  standing of the United Nations and of Human Rights.
(52) The CHAIRMAN thanked the delegate of the  United Kingdom for the report, which, although  nominally representing the joint work of the Iraq:  and United Kingdom delegations, had been  produced entirely by herself.  The meeting rose at 6.45 p.m,  SIXTH MEETING
22 November 1954 at 10 am.  Chairman : Mr. AL-HANI (Iraq)  ITEM 10,2 OF REVISED AGENDA : CONSIDERATION OF  REPORTS PRESENTED BY MEMBER STATES FOR 1952-33  (continued)
(1) Mr. HAZOUME (France) said that, having been  chosen to submit to the Committee observations on  the reports from Cambodia, Laos, Lebanon, Viet-  Nam and Poland, he had decided that the best method  was to take each section of the plan sent to Member  States 1n December 1953 (CL/867, Annex) and to  make a statement on the activities of the first four  States under each section. As the document sent by  Poland differed substantially from the others, it    would be presented separately. He was therefore  submitting his report in six sections as follows:  I. Introductory comments (Unesco membership  of each Ctate).  II. Information concerning the efforts made by each  Member State concerned, in the fields of education,  science and culture.  II. The international conventions accepted by those  States either officially or unofficially during the  period 1952-53, and the efforts they had made to  give effect to international recommendations.  IV. Action taken to implement the resolutions of the  Unesco programme, with its sub-sections on education,  - 915 -   x-6 CONMITTEE ON REPORTS OF MEMBER STATES  exchange of persons, natural sciences, social  sciences, cultural activities and mass communication.  V. National Commissions and all other co-operating  bodies, and their activities.  VI. Measures taken on behalf of organizations other  than those recognized by Unesco to associate them in  the execution of the Unesco programme.
(2) In the second part of his remarks, dealing with  the report submitted by Poland, the French delegate  said that that country, which had been a foundation  member of Unesco, had later suspended and only  very recently resumed its collaboration. In his  opinion, its most recent report was much more a  document containing information on Poland's  activities in the educational, scientific and cultural  fields, than a report sent in reply to the Director-  General's request in accordance with the proposed  plan.
(3) By way of concluding his analysis of the reports,  he said that, while they fulfilled their purpose, they  gave few or no particulars at all under certain  headings which Unesco rightly regarded as very  important. That remark applied especially to the  Polish report.
(4) He drew special attention to the relative silence  concerning mass communication questions.
15) He considered that the reports did not adhere  closely enough to the plan proposed for their  preparation, with the result that the information  supplied was sometimes confused or obscure.
(6) Generally, he thought that the Secretariat should  do some preliminary work on the reports so as to  produce an overall picture of the various activities  listed in them, in relation to Unesco's general and  special activities.
(7) That was the method of work he had himself  adopted for the reports he had examined, but he  feared the drafting of the Committee's general report  would not te lightened by the fact that other  rapporteurs had felt constrained to submit their  observations on each report individually, that being  the method employed by previous committees.
(8) Mr. HONG HOEUNG DOEUNG (Cambodia),  submitting the reports presented by Austria, Greece,  Iran, Syria and Turkey, said that his method had  been to deal with each report section by section in  accordance with the following scheme:
1. Structure and layout of the report;  II. Content of the report (comprising in whole or in  part the sections proposed by the Director-General);  II. His own conclusions.
(9) He thought that from the Austrian report there  emerged an impression of hard work and of optimism  as to the future relations between that country and    Unesco. The recommendations and general  resolutions of the sixth and seventh sessions of the  General Conference had been put into effec., the  National Commission was active and well organized.
(10) The report showed that Austria was taking more  and more interest in its membership of Unesco, and  an effort of that kind for revival of cultural activities  immediately after a destructive war deserved every  encouragement.
(11) The report from Greece contained important  And fairly complete information on the progress  achieved. It showed that the Greek Ministry of  Edacation hed been very active, but there was  nothing to dicate to the General Conference the  extent, unjuestionably considerable, of the  Ministry's collaboration in Unesco's work.
(12) The report on Iran conformed by and large to  the plan proposed by the Director-General. It set  out in six sections the activities of the National  Commission and its sub-committees In giving effect  to the different points in the Unesco programme.
(13) He considered that Iran's effective collaboration  in Unesco's work was due to the essentially sound  organization of its National Commission, the Iranian  Government's resolute co-operation, and the support  given by cultural and social orgamzations.
(14) The Syrian report followed the proposed plan  fairly closely and gave a general picture of Syria's  participation in Unesco's work; it also gave  particulars concerning the implementation of certain  parts of the programme,
(15) He thought that Syria and Unesco should be in  even closer contact than at present in the implement-  ation of the General Conference's resolutions.
(16) The Turkish report was, generally speaking, in  accordance with the plan suggested by the Secretariat,  and certain of the five chief sections with which it  dealt were adequately developed.
(17) The Secretariat should make a special note of  the particularly satisfactory results achieved by the  Turkish National Commission, whose close collabo-  ration with the Unesco Secretariat promised to be  even more fecund in the future. It was to be hoped  that the National Commissions of the other countries  would achieve similar results and that they would be  helped to do so by even more watchful attention on  the part of the Secretariat, as had been the case in  Turkey during the implementation of certain points  in the regular programme and the Expanded Technical  Assistance Programme,
(18) The CHAIRMAN thanked the delegates of France  and Cambodia for their detailed analyses of the reports.  The meeting rose at 12,45 p.m.  - 916 -