9 November 1954 at 10 a.m.  Chairman: Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Australia)  ITEM 7.2 OF THE AGENDA: PRELIMINARY CONSIDERATION  OF THE DRAFT PROGRAMME AND BUDGET FOR 1933-36,  BEFORE THE OPENING OF THE BESSION (continued)  PART 1: GENERAL ADMINISTRATION  CHAPTER 3: BUREAU OF PERSONNEL AND MANAGEMENT  (continued)
(1) The CHAIRMAN asked the Chief of Bureau of  Personnel and Management to reply to questions  raised at the previous meeting.
(2) Mr. FARR (Chief, Bureau of Personnel «nd  Management) said that the changes in grading pro-  posed for the period 1955-56 comprised 25 movements  upwards and 7 downwards in the Professional cate-  gory and 61 and 3 respectively in the General Services  category, 24 of the 61 concerning the Documents and  Publications Service. To 1llustrate his previous  statement on reclassification, he proposed to give an  example of each of the various kinds of approach.
(3) (1) Department of Education: The replacing of a  P-3 post under Adult Education in 1953-54 by a P-2  post in 1955-56 was not a reclassification, but was  due to a reduction in the programme by transferring  some of the work to the Department of Social Sciences.
(4) (ri) Department of Natural Sciences: The provi-  sion for two P-4 posts in 1955-56 instead of two P-3  posts in 1953-54 was an upgrading. The reorganiza-  tion of the Department in 1954 by amalgamating two  divisions each headed by a P-5 official eliminated  one P-5 post and placed extra responsibilities on the  two P-3 officials,
(5) (iii) Department of Natural Sciences: The sub-  stitution of a post under Teaching of Science fram P-4  in 1953 to P-3 in 1954 and again to P-4 in 1955-56 re-  flected the growth of the programme.
(6) (iv) Department of Mass Communication: The  raising of a Press Relations Officer from P-2 in 1953  to P-3 in 1955-56 was a genuine reclassification in  recognition, after very careful study, of a mistake in  classification,
(7) (v) Exchange of Persons Service: The proposed  P-5 post for 1955-56 to replace a P-4 post in 195364  represented a reclassification of the existing post and  an upgrading of the incumbent. The recommendation  had been made, after considerable discussion, as a  result of the increase in fellowships and in the num-  ber of agencies and governments concerned - both  under the incumbent's administration - and the  abolition of a P-4 post for administration of  fellowships under the Technical Assistance Divi-  sion, which led to an increase in the respon  sibilities attached to the post, the increase    in work load alone not being a reason for  upgrading.
(8) (vi) Documentation and Publications: In 1953-54  four Grade F proof-readers and four Grade P-1 copy  preparers were employed. Experience in 1954 had  shown that the work would be performed more ef-  ficiently by staff able to carry out both functions, and  it was accordingly proposed to replace the existing  posts by eight at Grade P-1,
(9) (vii) Workshops Division: Eleven changes were  proposed, ail in the General Services category, the  total cost for two years being $572. Technical de-  velopments in the Unesco Workshop had altered me-  thods of handling documents, and the typing pool had  been replaced by eleven technicians in types of repro-  duction who were doing work calling for technical  skills above those of a typist, The proposals there-  fore reflected a change in the nature of the work. An  important consideration in fixing salaries had been  the best prevailing rates for the technicians, who  were extremely difficult to recruit in Paris.
(10) The total cost of changes for two years was  $73,000.
(11) Witn regard to the practice in the United Nations  and other Specialized Agencies, comparison was dif-  ficult owing to differences in work and structure, but  the Consultative Committee on Administrative Ques-  tions and other bodies were endeavouring to work out  common lines of policy, so far as was practicable,
(12) The following figures were based on the most  recent budgets of the organizations concerned.
(13) Comparison of Professional and General Service  Grades:  Professional General Services  Unesco 45% 55%  United Nations 41% 59%  FAO 39% 61%  WHO 61% 39%  Comparison of Professional Grades:  P-5 P-4 P-3 P-2 P-1  Unesco 10% 30% 26% 18% 15%  United Nations 11% 26% 38% 15% 10%  FAO 9% 26% 27% 22% 17%  WHO 8% 29% 15% 34% 13%  The average level was therefore:  Unesco P-3 .0:  United Nations P-3.13  FAO P-2.49  WHO P-2 ,86
(14) Miss LAISE (United States of Arnerica) asked  whether there was an increase in activity correspond  ing to the 86 upgradings, and pointed out that, while  Unesco had 86 upgradings for a staff of 864, the Uni-  ted Nations had only 25 for a staff of 4,000. Although  - 726 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BU"NGFT  individual changes were adequately justified, it was  not clear why there was a constant shift of activity  which resulted in an upward movement. It would be  interesting to have comparative figures for other years.  As had been pointed out in the United Nations in estab-  lishing the new salary scales, which were faily liber-  al, it had been intended that fewer individual justifica-  tions should be necessary.
(15) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Programme  and Budget) promised to submit a written document  giving the required comparative figures at the next  meeting.
(16) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out that at  the United Nations, staff was being reduced, which  was no doubt the rcason why few upgradings were re-  commended. Moreover, the United Nations work,  being of a more administrative type than Unesco's,  provided a higher degree of transferability.
(17) Miss LAISE (United States of America) agreed  that an organization reducing its staff would be un-  likely to consider reclassifications; nevertheless the  difference between the figures relating to Unesco and  the United Nations was so striking that she wondered  whether it was due in part to the stability of the United  Naticns programme. Was it possible for Unesco to  endeavour to achieve more stability.
(18) Mr. FOW (Canada) supported the statement of  the United States delegate, adding that it was neces-  sary to achieve stability both of reclassification and  of the programme itself, since they were interrelated.
(19) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that it would  facilitate the Secretariat's task if a level of reclas-  sification could be set which should not be exceeded.  There would, of course, be risks, since a growing  programme needed flexibility, but it could be handled  in the same way as the ceiling which had been given  for the number of posts.
(20) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) asked whether, in the  case of reclassification, the existing incumbent was  retained in the higher post. He also wished to know  the proportion of the budget spent respectively on the  Professional and General Service categories,
(21) Mr. FARR (Chief, Bureau of Personnel and  Management) replied that the incumbent of a reclassi  fied post did not automatically assume the higher-  grade post; a decision had to be made by an appoint-  ments committee. He proposed to answer the second  question of the Indiar delegate at a later stage.
(22) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel), while agreeing with the  view of the United States delegate, could not support  the Canadian delegate 's suggestion that the program-  me must be stabilized, A growing organization need-  ed flexibility, and he hoped to see an increase in both  the budget and the activities of the Organization,
(23) Miss LAISE (United States of America) welcom-  ed the Director-General's proposal on reclassifica-  tions, but wished for time to consider a proposal  along the lines he had suggested.    Vi-13
(24) Mr. BOW (Canada) explained that his remarks  concerning stability had been made from the budgetary  angle. It was possible to have flexibility within the  programme regardless of the budgetary appropriation,
(25) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that the setting  of a level, based on the average given by the Chief of  the Bureau of Personnel and Management, would  automatically allow for control of the budget. The  average could always be reduced, but it would be un-  wise to limit spending on reclassifications, because it  wus difficult to estimate the total very far ahead.
(26) The CHAIRMAN said that the Director -General's  proposal had the advantage of providing the Organiza-  tion with a positive policy on personnel, He proposed  that 1t should be discussed in the light of the additional  information to be provided for the next meeting.
(27) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom), referring to  the table on steps in salary grades (Annex VI, page 259,  pointed out that a senior P-1 post would receive more  than a junier P-2, so that the freezing of grades would  not result in budgetary savings, He naturally sup-  ported any efforts to reduce expenditure, but was  willing to give the Director-General a free hand within  the total level, bearing in mind that the Constitution  granted him full powers in staff matters.
(28) In reply to a question from Mr. JUNANKAR  (India), Mr. FARR (Chief, Bureau of Personnel and  Management) said that where, under reclassification,  incumbents were not given the higher posts, they were  either offered lower posts or dismissed,
(29) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) hoped thatevery  effort would be made to find other work for people  who lost their posts through reclassification, He asked  whether there were any such cases in the proposals  under consideration,
(30) Mr. FARR (Chief, Bureau of Personnel and  Management) was unable to give any examples and  pointed out that recruitment had been slowed down un-  til after the Conference. In reply to a question from  Mr. AVIDOR (Israel), he said that the average of  P-3,02 was calculated on the first step of each grade,  The reason why the cost of the 11 upgradings in the  Workshops Division only amounted to $572 was that  many incumbents had reachzd a step where an up-  grading meant an increase of only $20 annually.
(31) The CHAIRMAN asked Mr. Rao for information  on indirect personnel costs.
(32) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Programme  and Budget), referring to Table I on p. 243 of the  proposed programme and budget, read the items un-  der Common Staff Costs with the relative budgetary  figure. Any savings that might be made in the course  of execuling the programme would be used on pro-  gramme expenditure.
(33) Mr.COWELL(United Kingdom)asked whether any  decrease was likely under item 14, Reimbursement of  National Income Tax, as more members acceded to the  International Conventionon Privileges and Immunities.  - 727 -   VI-13
(34) Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) said that the  item related almost entirely to staff at UN headquar-  ters who had to pay United States income tax, as well  as to a few United States citizens employed by the Or-  ganization who had not yet qualified for tax exemption
(35) Mr. BOW (Canada) asked for an explanation of  the high cost in 1955 under item 13, Travel of Staff  and D~pendents on Home Leave,
(36) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Programme  and Budget) explained that a larger number of staff  would be going on home leave in that year,
(37) Miss LAISE (United States of America) said that  the United States Government was exploring the pos-  sibilities of introducing legislation on income tax in  connexion with the United Nations and the Specialized  Agencies.
(38) With regard to the question of home leave, she  reaffirmed the belief of the United States delegation  that home leave should be on a three-year and not a  two-year basis, since the latter practice could not  but have a deleterious effect on Unesco's work. She  wished to have that view recorded and also the con-  tinued concern of the United States delegation at the  amount spent on temporary assistance during home  leave periods.
(39) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that the Con-  ference had already approved the right of the staff to  annual leave and Unesco simply increased the travel  allowance to enable staff members to return home.  In the case of air travel, there was a slight increase  in the time lost to the Organization, but time spentin  travel by other means had to be taken out of the holi-  day period. In reply to a further question from Miss  LAISE (United States of America), he confirmed that  leave could only be taken when convenient to the  Organization.
(40) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the granting of  home leave probably encouraged stafr to take their  holidays at one time, rather than spacing them out,
(41) Answering a question by the CHAIRMAN, Miss  LAISE (United States of America) said that she would  not press for inclusion of her remarks in the Com-  mittee 's report, provided they appeared in the ‘  Summary Record.  CHAPTER 1: OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL
(42) The CHAIRMAN drew attention to p.26 of the  Corrigendum.
(43) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that the changes  in question were based partly on the Executive Board's  decision to establish the post of Assistant Director-  General for the remainder of 1954 and beyond that  period subject to approval by the Conference. A fur-  ther corrigendum had been discussed in private by  the Executive Board, and would be submitted in a  document, namely the addition of another Assistant  Director-General and the elimination of the post of  Deputy Director-General. He would like the    ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  Committee to discuss the two posts of Assistant D'-  ector-General, for both of which the Executive Board  had proposed salaries of $14,000 with $2,000 repre-  sentation allowance. Certain changes were proposed,  resulting in a net saving, the most significant being  the abolition of the Chief of Bureau of Official and  External Relations (D-1) under paragraph 13 and the  Director of Office of Director-General under para-  graph 9, to be replaced by an Assistant Director-  General and a P-5 post in the Director-General's of-  fice. He hoped to proceed further with reorganizing  his office in order to make it a more effective instru-  ment of general administration and would take every  opportunity of saving, In reply to Mr. AVIDOR  (Israel), he stated that the paper to be submitted  would describe the work of the two Assistant Directors  General.
(44) Miss LAISE (United States of America) consider  ed that the alterations would provide a much sounder  administration. She hoped the new arrangement  would be tried over the next two years and that no  further changes would be made before the next  Conference,
(45) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL confirmed that the  Executive Board had already taken a decision on the  lines of the United States delegate's suggesticn; he  assumed that it referred only to the three top posts.  NEW YORK OFFICE
(46) It was agreed that the item should be deferred  until the discussion of general problems.  BUREAU OF LEGAL AFFAIRS
(47) No comment.
(48) The CHAIRMAN invited discussion on the Offices  of the Directors of the Programme Departments, re-  calling that it had been agreed to discuss them on a  comparative basis,
(49) Miss LAISE (United States of America) repeated  an earlier observation on the tendency in Unesco to  establish directorate staff regardless of the volumeof  work or number of staff to be supervised.
(50) Mr. FARR (Chief, Bureau of Personnel and  Management) said that every department had a Dir-  ector and Deputy Director and the Departments of  Education and Mass Communication each had addition  al D-1 posts to take care of large sections of their  programme, Each department had also an Adminis-  trative Officer at grade P-3 except in the case of  Social Sciences, where the grade was P-2, No de-  partment was small enough not to need an administra-  tive officer. Because of their size, the Departments  of Education and of Mass Communication had an ad-  ditional P-1 administrative assistant each, and a  further similar post was proposed for the Department  of Cultural Activities,
(51) Miss LAISE (United States of Americaconsidered  - 728 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BWDGET VI-13  that three points called for explanation: the need for  a Deputy Director in each department; the reason  why heads of divisions could not deputize for directors;  whether administration could be centralized. The  United Nations had similar problems and the view had  been expressed that one way of developing personnel  was to make division heads deputize for directors.
(52) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that it was es-  sential to consider the nature of the responsibilities  of heads of departments. In Unesco, in addition to  heavy administrative responsibilities, there was con-  siderable work in connexion with other organizations  and with Member States. Experience had demonstra  ted the need for a Deputy, and he suggested that it  might be useful to hear the view of a Director of one  of the departments.
(53) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) thought it essential for Directors of De-  partments to be assisted by a Deputy. Of the eight  years he himself had spent in charge of a Department,  he had had a Deputy only for the last four, and only  then had he been able to attend adequately to the in-  tellectual side of his work and with less detriment to  his health, All Directors of departments agreed that  the division of responsibilities had bzen satisfactorily  arranged and had greatly improved the work of de-  partments. Mr. Auger emphasized that it was im-  portant for Directors of departments to have a per-  son with whom they could discuss each day's develop-  ments. Although Heads of Divisions could, if need  be, deputize for Directors, it should not be overlook-  ed that their work was, and had to be, of an even  more specialized character. They did not, there-  fore, necessarily have the general grasp of the work  of the department that was essential for a Director  and his Deputy.
(54) With regard to the problem of Administrative  Liaison Officers, Mr. Auger thought they were most  useful in assisting the Deputy Director in his adminis-  trative duties and keeping in regular touch with all  other services.
(55) Miss LAISE (United States of America) proposed  that the Committee should recommend that the ques-  tion be studied during the next two years and a spe-  cial report made to the next Conference on the ques-  tion of Deputy Directors and Administrative Officers.  While she appreciated Mr. Auger's statement, it was  important for the efficiency of the Organization to  have greater exchange of persons and less speciali-  zation so that staff should gain a wider knowledge of  the work of the Organization.
(56) It was agreed that the United States delegate's  views should be included in the Committee 's report.
(57) The CHAIRMAN recalled a suggestion, made  during discussion of the Departmen.: of Cultural Ac-  tivities, that the Library should be considered as a  service to ali departments and should not therefore  be placed administratively in any one programme  department.
(58) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that the sug-  gestion was logical, but that it was difficult to decide    which part of the administration should house it.There  were reasons why it was preferable to keep it in a  programme department, and Cultural Activities, which  contained Unesco's bibliographical services, seemed  a suitable department, but he was prepared to consider  its transfer if there were strong feelings in favour of it,
(59) Mr. BOW (Canada) proposed that the matter  should be included in the study suggested by the United  States delegate. He would like to see a centralized  machinery for evaluation rather than decentralized  evaluation within departments, and asked if the Direc-  tor-General in his review of administration could  study the relative merits of centralization and  decentralization.
(60) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that he had al-  ready considered the idea of a Department of Adminis-  tration but had come to the conclusion that it was un-  desirable to increase top bureaucracy. He would,  however, be glad to study the whole problem and  make a report to the ninth session of the Conference,
(61) Miss LAISE (United States of America)suggested  that the >udget organization might be strengthened to  enable it, in addition to controlling finance, to survey  methods and organizational practices and especially  to supf.rvise field activities.
(62) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) proposed the  establishment of a planning section attached to the  Budget Bureau, so that methods of evaluation could be  arranged at the same time as finance, and a direct  means of ascertaining the results of a new project be  established at the time the project was initiated. That  would make evaluation of results far more effective.
(63) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) said that the  question of Archives ought to be considered in  connexion with the Library.
(64) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL, referring to the  I ptian delegate's proposal, pointed out that the  Bureau of Programme and Budget was already respon-  sible for a considerable amount of planning and sub-  mitted a twice-yearly review of work plans, in  addition to supervising all travel anc all changes in  work plans. It also joined the Director-General in  tripartite discussions of work plans and travel in the  different departments.
(65) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) insisted that  criteria for judging the success of a programme  should be established at its inception, so that the  Director-General in executing it and the Conference  in studying it could see whether or not the original  aims had been successfully met,  CHAPTER 4: BUREAU OF CONFERENCE PLANNING AND  GENERAL SERVICES
(66) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that the Bureauhad  been operating in the most satisfactory way: it was well  organized, had good personnel and excellent manage-  ment; posts were kept to the minimum and the service had  reached maturity in its procedures and activities,  - 729 -   VvI-13 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET
(67) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) fully supported  the Director-General's statement,
(68) Miss LAISE (United States of America)asked  whether full use was being made of the Bureau, not  only in connexion with conferences, seminars and  meetings of experts, but also in connexion with ad-  ministrative work in the departments. She asked  who was responsible for providing administrative  officers for meetings outside Unesco House in Paris.
(69) Mr. MONTAGNIER (Chief, Bureau of Conference  Planning and General Services) pointed out that there  were several categories of meetings. When meetings  were held in Paris, the Bureau of Conference Plan-  ning was responsible for all practical arrangements.  For important meetings held elsewhere, the Bureau  helped in the preparations and delegated a member of  the Bureau to be responsible for the organization of  the Conference. For small meetings away from  headquarters, a member of the department concerned  handled all administrative arrangements, which was  more economical than sending for the same purpose  an official from the Bureau of Conference Planning.  PART IV: COMMON BERVICE COSTS
(70) Mr. Montagnier drew attention to the first  paragraph of Part IV showing the savings proposed  for the administration of the Common Services, Those  savings were due partly to reduced prices(particular-  ly for paper). Furthermore, after eight years, the  Organization had sufficient equipment to meet its  needs in the way of typewriters and office furniture,  and the budget estimates provided for the periodic  replacement of some items only. A slight increase  in the appropriations requested for the Cleaning and  Security Services (paragraph 24) would be required,  owing to the decision to increase salaries in France.  The Secretariat obtained those services under con-  tract and was therefore required to make provision  for that increase, which amounted to $9,600in 1955  and $11,072 in 1956, Mr, Montagnier pointed out  that that increase was offset by the reduction for  office supplies referred to previously (paragiaph 6).  The expenses involved in the transfer of the Organi-  zation to its new premises had been calculated very  closely and amounted to approximately $30,000, ‘If  the new building were not completed by the date indi-  cated, an extra $15,000 or so would have to be  provided for rental,
(71) The CHAIRMAN, referring to paragraph 4,  asked whether it could still be expected that the new  headquarters building would be completed during the  first half of 1956,
(72) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that the most  recent information was to the effect that the  next Conference could be held in the new build-  ing by the beginning of Octcber, although the  main Secretariat building would not be entirely  completed, In reply to a question from M-.  COWELL (United Kingdom), he confirmed that che  work would be carried out at the normal cost,
(73) Miss LAISE (United States of America) proposed  that the salary and allowances for the Secretary of the  Staff Association in paragraph 39 be deleted, A Staff  Association should be independent,
(74) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) seconded the  proposal.
(75) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) suggested that the sum in  question could be awarded to the Staff Association in  the form of a subvention.
(76) Miss LAISE (United States of America) referred  to the provision of $1,000 a year for staff culturaland  recreational activities and proposed that the funds be  transferred to the staff training programme, which  was one of the weakest parts of the programme.Efforts  being made to improve geographical distribution and  to employ younger people emphasized the need for a  language programme,
(77) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom), supported by  the delegate of the United States of America and Norway,  asked whether other Specialized Agencies made  similar budgetary provisions.
(78) Mr. FARR (Chief, Bureau of Personnel and  Management) said that the provision for a Secretary to  the Staff Association had first appeared in the 1953-54  budget. Staff Regulations provided for a Staff Asso-  ciation, and its proper functioning was in the interests  of he Organization, which accordingly felt justified in  providing for a Grade E secretary. Membership was  voluntary and included about 90% of the staff on pay-  ment of a subscription, The Association financed  many activities which contributed to the well-being of  the staff and consequently of the Organization, Its  constitution had been approved by the Director-General,  and it was conducted in a representative and democra-  tic manner, Moreover, it was able to deal with many  queries which would otherwise have to be handled by  the administrative services. Speaking as a former  Chairman of the Staff Association and as existing Chief  of the Bureau of Personnel, he cortsidered that the  Association served a useful purpose,
(79) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that, while there  had been controversy between himself and the Staff  Association, he believed that it was instrumental in  developing a spirit of unity among the staff which was  of value to the Organization, Its possibilities could  be considerably developed in the coming two years.
(80) Miss LAISE (United States of America), while  appreciating the Director-General's views, maintain-  ed her proposal. The Executive Board at its last  session had stressed that the Organization should  share responsibility when providing funds; it was not  responsible for the actions of the Staff Association.
(81) After further discussion, it was agreed to defer  the item until the information requested by the United  Kingdom delegate had been provided, and that, if it  were not forthcoming in time for a recommendation to  be made, the Committee should point out the  desirability for further study of the problem.  - 730 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON  PART I: GENERAL POLICY  CRAPYER 1: GENERAL CONFERENCE
(82) Mr. MONTAGNIER (Chlef, Bureau of Conference  Planning and General Services) explained that the  budjet estimates had been drawn up on the assump-  tior. that the General Conference would hold {ts ninth  session at the Organization's headquarters in Paris  and that the session would be roughly on the same  scale and last for the same period as that held in  Paris in 1952. The greatest difference compared  with the 1852 appropriations was for temporary  assistance, which accounted for $137,000 in the 1952  budget, compared with $148,000 in 1853, That  difference was due to the fact that it had been decided  to alter the staff rules and to bring the salary of  temporary staff into line with the Initial salary of  permanent Secretariat officials of the same category.  There was an increase of $4,000 for supplies and  materials (to cover the purchase of paper for the  reproduction of documents during the Conference). In  that connexion Mr. Montagnier reminded members of  the wish expressed both by the Executive Board and  the Committee itself to include under Part I all ex-  penditure occasioned by the General Conference. The  great difference in the provision for hospiiality($204  for 1952 and $3,000 for 1856) was due to the cancel-  lation of the big final reception in 1952.
(83) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) said that, with the growth  of the Organization and the increase in the number of  Member States, it was time to consider the pro-  gramme of work of the General Conference, It was  useless, in his view, for problems to be discussed  by the Advisory Committee, the Programme and  Budget Commission and the Conference, often includ-  ing the same members, and he asked if the Secra-  tariat and the Executive Board could consider the  problem and report to the next Conference.
(84) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that the subject  was automatically discussed by the Executive Board, The  views of the delegate of Israel would be kept in mind,    PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VI-13
(85) The CHAIRMAN said that it would be useful to  have the views of the Administrative Commission
(86) Miss LAISE (United States of America} welcomed  the statement of the delegate of Israel, The United  States delegation hoped that the change in the status of  the Executive Board might eliminate the need for the  Advisory Committee.  CHAPTER 3: EXECUTIVE BOARD
(87) The DIRECTOR-GENERA!,, referring to the  budget proposed by the Chairman of the Executive  Board, in consultation with its members and the  Secretariat, said that the most important considera-  tion was the number and length of sessions, The  information appeared in paragraph 21,
(88) Mr, JUNANKAR (India) pointed out that his  Government had extended an invitation to the next  Conference, whereas the figures in the document were  based on its being held in Paris,
(88) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that a paper had  already been prepared giving the additional cost in  case the Conference were held in India, and including  appropriate additions to the cost of tha Executive  Board sessions which would be held a. the time.
(9C) It was agreed to discuss the document as it  stood.
(91) Miss LAISE (United States of America) proposed  reducing sessions of the Executive Board from 4 to
2 in one year, both to be held at the time of the  Conference in a conference year,
(92) The proposal was supported by the delegates of  the United Kingdom and France.  The meeting rose at 1,00 p.m,  - 131 -