GENERAL  before or after the discussion of all the chapters of  the programme. He wanted that point cleared up.
(33) The DIRECTOR-GENEF.AL explained that, in  accordance with the agenda of the General Conference  the decision on the assessment level and the provi-  sional budget total had to be taken before the  Programme and Budget Commission discussed the  various chapters of the budget. The order of business  would thus be as follows; (1) the General Conference  in plenary session would meet that morning to con-  sider the “eport of the Administrative Commission  on arrears of contributions and voting rights of  certain countries, the scale of contributions and  methods of financing the budget; (2) on the basis of  the plenary Conference's discussions, the Programme    COMMITTEE 1-7  and Budget Commission would meet as soon as  possible to discuss the provisional budget total; that  meeting would start with the presentation by the  Chairman of the Board and the Director-General of  the higher budget proposals; the Commission would  then report back to the plenary Conference, if pos-  sible by 6 p. m., so that the latter could fix the  provisional budget total. The next morning, the  Programme and Budget Commission would be able to  start considering Part II of the budget. It would still  be free to propose a change in the budget total at a  later stage, if it so desired.  The meeting rose at 9.55 a.m.  SEVENTH MEETING
26 November 1954 at 9.15 a.m.  Chairman: Mr. ZAVALA MUNI Z (Uruguay)  PROGRESS OF WORK OF THE GENERAL CONFERENCE
(1) The CHAIRMAN asked members of the General  Committee if they had any reports to submit. He  called upon the Chairman of the Programme and  Budget Commission.
(2) Mr. BOURGEOIS said that the Programme and  Budget Commission had begun its consideration of  the chapter on Education and had reached paragraph
159 under the heading of Education and Child Develop-  ment. It would continue its discussion and would  complete the Education chapter, either at the end of  the afternoon meeting or more probably at the follow-  ing morning's meeting.
(3) Few alterations had been made in the points  alreadr discussed. The main change was the can-  cellatioi: of the appropriations provided under  paragraph 146 for the International Educational  Development Fund.
(4) The CHAIRMAN submitted the report of the  Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission  for discussion. As there were no comments, he  declared it approved.
(5) Mr. COWELL pointed out that, as a consequence  of the decision taken on the budget ceiling, there  would have to be slight adjustments to the budget and  asked what procedure was envisaged for the discus-  sions on the budget in the Programme Commission.
(6) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that he had dis-  cussed the matter with the Chairman of the  Programme and Budget Commission and a procedure    had been agreed which seemed to deal with the matter  in a fair and orderly way. The Chairman of the  Programme Commission would inform the Commis-  sion from time to time of the position with regard to  budget cuts. At the end of each chapter, the situation  concerning cuts and increases would be summarized  and the Director-General be asked if he had any pro-  posals to make before the chapter was finally approved  Each chapter would be subject to reconsideration  before final approval was given to the Programme and  Budget as a whole.
(7) Mr. BOURGEOIS agreed to the remarks raade by  the Director-General.
(8) The CHAIRMAN asked the delegate of the United  Kingdom if he wished to recommend the adoption of  the procedure outlined by the Director-General. The  delegate of the United Kingdom agreed with that pro-  cedure. The Chairman then called on the Chairman  of the Administrative Commission.
(9) Mr. BEEBY said that the Administrative Commis-  sion was well advanced. Its work on Official and  External Relations had been completed, the work on  legal questions had been completed and the Commis-  sion was waiting for the draft amendments to be  forwarded to it by the Legal Committee. All questions  of finance had been settled except the currency of  contributions, which question was being discussed by  the Contributions Committee. With regard to head-  quarters matters, the Commission would have to  await the recommendation of the Headquar:ers   m-8 GENERAL  Copimittée on the supplementary report of the  Director-General. The questions concerning working  larguages had been settled. The only work which  remained outstanding was that on staff questions,  which would be dealt with by the Administrative Com-  mission during the following week. The Commission  tad been able to allocate the remaining meetings of  the current week to the work of the Legal Committee.
(10) As there were no comments, the CHAIRMAN  declared the report of the Chairman of the Admini-  strative Commission approved. He then called on  the Chairman of the Advisory Committee on  Programme and Budget  {11) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES said that the Committee  had completed its examination of the report of the  Expert Committee on Education for International  Understanding and Co-operation, modifying specific  points. The Committee's report was ready and he  hoped to present it to the Programme Commission  at the beginning of its morning meeting.
(12) The Advisory Committee had still to consider  various points on the remodelled programme and  would require, for that purpose, three or four  meetings in the following week.
(13) In the absence of the Chairman of the Head-  quarters Committee, Mr. Gardner Davies reported  that that Committee had discussed the main item on  its agenda at its last meeting, namely, the supple-  mentary report on the installation of an office of the  International Civil Aviation Organization at the per-  manent headquarters of Unesco. One point had  emerged clearly from the discussion, which was that  the new headquarters building must remain wholly a    COMMITTEE  Unesco building. The Committee had, however,  agreed in principle to recommend that the Director-  General should negoilate a contract with the Interna-  tional Civil Aviation Organization for the building of  a block for its u£ & andhad agreed that the Headquarters  Committee should discuss plans for such a building.
(14) Mr. HAGUIWARA wished to know whether the  Headquariers Committee had fixed a date for the com-  pletion of the new headquarters building. That date  was bound to influence the decision concerning the  meeting place of the next General Conference. How-  ever, he gathered that the Administrative Commission  had already taken a decision on that last point.
(15) Mr, GARDNER DAVIES replied that the Head-  quarters Committee expected the building to be  completed by December 1956 or January 1957.
(16) The CHAIEMAN called for comments. As there  were none, he declared the report of the Chairman of  the Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget  approved. He then called on the Secretary to outline  the programme of work for 27 and 28 November,
(17) Mr. MONTAGNIER, after listing the meetings  of 27-29 November, added that the Headquarters  Committee would need to hold another meeting to  consider the report it would be submitting to the  Administrative Commission; that meeting would  probably be scheduled for the afternoon of Wednesday,
1 December.  The meeting rose at 9.35 a. m.  EIGHTH MEETING
29 November 1954 at 9 a.m.  Chairman : Mr: ZAVALA MUNIZ (Uruguay)
(1) Opening the meeting, the CHAIRMAN called  upon the Chairman of the Administrative Commission  to make a progress report.
(2) Mr. BEEBY announced that, as the Commission  had not met since the General Committee's last  meeting, the position was still as he had stated it on  Friday morning (26 November). In the course of the  day (Monday, 28 November), the Commission would  first consider reports from the Legal Committee and  would then go on to staff questions, which would  probably require four meetings.
(3) The above verbal ruport was approved.
(4) Mr. BOURGEOIS reported that the Programme    and Budget Commission had concluded its scrutiny  of the Education chapter. He would not at the  moment describe in detail the changes made but they  were substantial, more particularly in the item on  Palestine refugees, for whom a considerably higher  appropriation wes being recommended, In all, the  Commission had approved additional appropriations  of $97, 000 in chapter 1 as a whole. Could the  Director-General say whether that figure could be  ofiset within the chapter pending the general redis-  tribution between all parts of the programme which  would follow on completion of the examination of the  remaining chapters? In conclusion he had to report  that a large majority of the Commission had no* seen  its way to accept the proposal for an International  School. At its meeting that morning the Commission  - 254 -