8 December 1954, at 9 a.m.  Chairman: Mr. RUIZ-GIMENEZ (Spain)
(1) Mr. MONTAGNIER proposed a programme of  work for Wednesday, 8 December and Thursday, 9  December. If the Advisory Committee und the Pro-  gramme and Budget Commission completed their  work the following day, 9 December, the Conference  could devote its two last plenary meetings, on  Friday, 10 December, to considering the Programme  and Budget Commission's report, a draft resolution  submitted by India and amended by China on the  necessity of making Unesco a universal Organization  (documents 8C/DR/4 and 8C/DR/120), and a draft  resolution submitted by Denmark, Norway and  Sweden (DR/118) on the organization of the work of  the ninth session. The Conference would adopt a  resolution, expressing its gratitude to the host  country, and would also celebrate Human Rights Day,  which, falling on 10 December, happened to coincide  with the last day of the session.
(2) Mr. KABIR pointed out that the United Kingdom  delegation had submitted a resolution (DR/119)  calling on the Executive Board to study the problem  of the ninth session of the General Conference and  suggested that, as the new Executive Board had a  new Constitution which would give it greater authority  in relationship to governments, it would be better to  leave it to the new Executive Board to set up any  necessary committees after it had considered the  United Kingdom resolution.
(3) Replying to a remark by the DIRECTOR-  GENERAL that the Executive Board had no powers to  set up committees of the General Conference, he  said that the General Conference could give it the  necessary powers,
(4) Mr. SHARIF expressed satisfaction that the  General Conference would finish its work on 10  December and hoped that definite information would  be given on that point in the course of the day so as  to enable delegates to make the necessary prepara-  tions for departure.
(5) With regard to the point under discussion, he did  not think that it would be correct for the General  Conference to give powers to the Executive Board to  do work which it should undertake itself.
(6) Mr. MONTAGNIER reminded the Committee that,  during its current session, the Conference had  amended Rule 30 of its Rules of Procedure in order  to enable the Nominations Committee to appoint the  members of the various small committees.
(7) Mr. VERONESE asked for further information  on the proposals regarding the organization of work    of the ninth session. He appreciated that the Execu-  tive Board might be given the right to appoint  members of the Advisory Committee. He nevertheless  shared the doubts expressed in that connexion by the  delegate of Pakistan.
(8) As the new Executive Board would represent only
22 of the Member States, it was a matter of doubt  whether it should be given the power to set up the  Advisory Committee. Moreover, the Advisory Com-  mittee might be regarded as superfluous, in view of  the changes made in the structure of the Executive  Board. The question could be studied at the same  time as the Administrative Commission's report.
(9) Mr. MONTAGNIER pointed out th t there were in  fact two draft resolutions regarding the organization  of work of the ninth session: document 8C/DR/118,  submitted by the Danish, Norwegian and Swedish  delegations, which requested the Executive Board to  revise the organization and method. of work of the  General Conference in collaboration with the Director-  General, and document 8C/DR/119, submitted by the  United Kingdom delegation, making the Executive  Board responsible for determining ways of expediting  the work of the ninth session and rendering it more  efficient.
(10) Mr. Montagnier considered, moreover, that the  desirability of retaining the Advisory Committee  should be discussed by the Programme and Budget  Commission.
(11) Mr. FRAGA IRIBARNE drew attention to the  distinction between: (a) the Legal Committee and the  Committee on Reports of Member States, which were  appointed in accordance with norma! procedure, ind  (b) the Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget  and the Contributions Committee, the desirability of  whose appointment by the Executive Board had been  questioned.
(12) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES did not share the view  expressed by the delegate of Spain. The Contributions  Committee was a committee of the Administrative  Commission and could be set up by that Commission.  The other three committees should be treated alike.
(13) A brief discussion had already taken place in the  Advisory Committee on the future of the Committee,  and some delegates had expressed the view that it  could still play a very useful part despite the govern-  mental structure of the Executive Board. Other  delegates had been of the opinion that an Advisory  Committee would be unnecessary. The matter would  be discussed again at the afternoon meeting of the  Advisory Committee.
(14) In his opinion, the Advisory Committee should be  - 264 -   GENERAL  allowed to discuss the question and to make  recommendations to the Programme and Budget  Commission in due course.
(15) Mr. SHARIF said that the question of an Advi-  sory Committee was tied up with the two resolutions  concerning the reorganization of the work of the ninth  session of the General Conference. If the General  Conference set up an Advisory Committee, the Execu-  tive Board would be faced with difficulties when  studying the problem of reorganization.
(16) He suggested that it should be left to the Execu-  tive Board to decide whether it was necessary to set  up an Advisory Committee. If the Executive Board  decided that it was necessary to have sucha  committee, the ninth session of the General Confe-  rence could set it up.
(17) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out that the  essential value of the Advisory Committee was that  it studied the programme and budget in advance and  was ready with its first report when the Programme  and Budget Commission began its work.
(18) One solution was that the members of the  Advisory Committee should be eiected at the current  session of the Gene-ai Conference and that it should  be left to the discre:inr of the Executive Board to  decide when the Advisory Committee should meet.
(19) Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS pointed out that any  recommendations to the General Conference at the  current session would be subject to recommendations  made by the new Executive Board after it had con-  sidered the organization of the work at the ninth  session of the General Conference. He emphasized  the necessity of mentioning the transitional nature of  any recommendations being made to the present  session.
(20) Mr. BOURGEOIS entirely agreed with the  Director-General's propusal and was strongly against  any suggestion that the Executive Board should desig-  nate the members of the Advisory Committee on  Programme and Budget. That responsibility devolved  upon the General Conference alone. He therefore  COMMITTEE     m-12  agreed that the Advisory Commiitee should be set up  at the current session - the Executive Board being  responsible for convening it when the time came.
(21) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES agreed with the solution  proposed by the Director-General. The General  Conference would have to decide whether or not it  wanted to have an Advisory Committee on Programme  and Budget.
(22) The General Committee adopted the solution  proposed by the Director-General.
(23) Mr. MONTAGNIER thought that, in that case,  the Nominations Committee might meet at the begin-  ning of Friday afternoon, reporting imraediately to  the Conference during the plenary meeting, which  would no doubt be the last of the session,
(24) Mr. KABIR said that he would be unable to be  present at the meeting of the Nominations Committee  and asked if he should send a substitute from his  delegation.
(25) Mr. MONTAGNIER reminded the Committee that,  according to paragraph 4 of Rule 28 of the Rules of  Procedure, the Nominations Committee elected a  chairman only.
(26) Mr. BOURGEOIS thought that it would be more  appropriate to allow the Nominations Committee to  choose another chairman itself, in the absence of Mr.  Kabir, rather than to impose upon it a chairman  designated by the General Committee.
(27) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that he was  unable to give a firm date for the end of the Conference.  The plans made by the General Committee had in-  creased the possibility of the necessity of holding a  plenary meeting in the morning of 11 December. He  assured the delegate of Pakistan, however, that most  of the important business of the Conference would  have been completed by the evening of 10 December.  The meeting rose at 9.40 a. m.  - 265 -