LEGAL
(44) Mr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) felt  that the Japanese amendment should not be adopted  independently of the American proposal.
(45) As no other delegate wished to cpeak, the  CHAIRMAN asked the Rapporteur to submit to the  Comniitiee a draft resolution on the question,
(46) Mr. BAUGNIET (i.apporteur) then submitted to  the Committee the following text:  “The Legal Committee 1s of opinion that the  amendment submitted to the Director-General by the  Japanese Government on 11 August 1954 constitutes,  as indicated by the title of the document annexed to  the letter in question, a draft amendment to the  amendments to Article V of the Constitution proposed  jointly by the United States of America, Australia,  Brazil and the United Kingdom (CL/943, Annex 1).  It cannot therefore be regarded as a separate and  self-contained amendment to the provisions of  THIRD  COMMITTEE     Vvlo-3  Article V of the Constitution. It couid not, therefore,  be adopted by the General Conference unless the  amendment to which it relates were itself adopted."
(47) After a comment by Mr. MAYER (France), Mr.  BAUGNIER (Rapporteur) said that he was willing to  delete the last sentence of the above text.
(48) Mr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America)  said that his delegatior had no objection to deletion  of the last sentence in the rapporteur's original draft,  provided it were clearly understood and acknowledged  that the last sentence was an obvious consequence cf  the earlier part of the motion,
(49) The Rapporteur's text, without the last sentence,  was put to the vote and adopted by 10 votes to 0, with
3 abstentions,  The meeting rose at 12. 20 p. m.  MEETING
19 November 1954 at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman : Mr. AWAD (Egypt)  CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT AMENDMENTS TO PARAGRAPHS 1,
3, 4, 12 and 13 OF ARTICLE V OF THE CONSTITUTION  CONCERNING THE EXECUTIVE BOARD (document 8C/ADM/1,  Annex III)
(1) The CHAIRMAN announced that the Legal  Committee had been convened to examine draft  amendments to Article V of the Constitution as  adopted by the Administrative Commission that  morning. The original United States amendment,  co-sponsored by Australia, Brazil and the United  Kingdom, had been adopted in an amended form by  the Administrative Commission as follows:  A. Composition  Paragraph 1  As in document 8C/ADM/1, Annex II, page 4,  save for the substitution of "twenty-two" for "twenty"  in the second line (Japanese amendment).  Paragraph 3  The United States delegation had withdrawn its  amendment to paragraph 3 and the original paragraph  in the Constitution had therefore been retained.  ’aragraph 4  As in document 8C/ADM/1, Annex III, page 4.  - 883 -     B. Functions  Paragraph 12  Replaced by paragraph 11 of document 8C/ADM/1,  Annex II, page 3.  C. ‘Transitional provisions  Paragraph 15  Asin document 8C/ADM/1, Annex III, page 4, save  for the substitution of "twenty-two" for "twenty" in  the third line, and the substitution of "eleven for "ten"  in the last line but one.
(2) The Chairman explained that it was the Committees  task to see that there was nothing contradictory or  legally inadmissible in the amendments adopted.
(3) In reply to a question from Mr. MAYER (France),  Mr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) said that  the intention in paragraph 4 was that a government  should nominate only one candidate, in the event of  the death or resignation of a member; however, if  that person were not appointed, he assumed that the  government concerned would be able to nominate  someone else.
(4) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) rather feared  difficulties of interpretation in connexion with the  new Article 12, which, he recalled, read as follows:   VilI-3 LEGAL COMMITTEE  "Although th: members of the Executive Board are  representative of their respective Governments, they  shall exercise the powers delegated to them by the  Conference on behalf of the Conterence as a whole,"
(5) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) reccgnized that the  members of the Executive Board would sometimes be  faced with problems if they were to reconcile the  responsibilities they had assumed as mandatories of  the Conference as a whole with the instructions they  had received from their Governments. He observed  that there were precedents for that case, Thus the  Security Council, which the United Nations had made  primarily responsible for the maintenance of peace,  also consisted of representatives of Member States.
(6) Mr. CABOUAT (Frauce) wished to be assured  that the word "resignation" appearing in paragraph 4  would under no circumstances enable a government  to dismiss its representative, In other words, he  wished to be certain that the "resignation" in question  could only be accepted if it were put in by the member  mmself, and not by his government.
(7) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) spoke on a point of  order. He asked the Chairman for information on  the procedure which the Committee intended to  adopt in studying the amendments now submitted for  its examination,
(8) Tne CHAIRMAN suggested that the Committee  might wish to adjourn for fifteen minutes to study the  amendments.
(8) Mr, WEST (United Kingdom) formally moved  adjournment for a quarter of an hour.
(10) Adopted.
(11) The meeting having reassembled, the CHAIRMAN  called upon the Rapporteur to give some explanations.  {12) Mr. BAUGNIET (Rapporteur) read out the few  formal amendments which it was proposed to make  in the French text of paragraph 1. In the third line  of the paragraph (document 8C/ADM/1. Annex III,  page 4), the words "de l'Etat qui l'a nommé" would  be replaced by the words "de i'Etat qui l'avaic  désigné", and “en cette qualité" would replace  ès qualité".
(13) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) observed that, in the  English text, the words "each of whom shall represent  the Government of his State" were not sufficiently  precise and questions might arise in connexion with  people having several nationalities.
(14) Mr. BAUGNIET (Rapporteur) drew the  Committee's attention to the fact that nothing should  normally prevent a State being represented, if it so  Cesired, by a national of another State. The words  of his State“ seemed to him therefore to be too  restrictive.
(15) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) stressed that at all  events the English aid French texts should be made  to agree with each other.  - 884 -
(16) The CHAIRMAN suggested that a drafting  Committee be appointed, composed of English, French  and Spanish-speaking members, to bring the three  texts into line, as far as was linguistically possible.
(17) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser] was not in favour of  a drafting committee being appointed and preferred  that the Committee should continue its discussion, He  therefore invited English-speaking delegates, and  particularly the delegate of the United States, to say  whether they thought it possible to change the English  text so as to bring jt into line with the proposed  French text, which, he recalled, read as follows:  "Chacun d'eux représente le gouvernement qui  l'avait désigné."
(18) Mr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) did  not quite under stand the difference in French between  " désigner” and "nommer", In English, it would be  perfectly correct to say "the governmens of the State  which has nominated him". There was no need to  substitute "designated".
(18) In reply to the United States delegate, Mr.  SABA (Legal Adviser) said that there was no basic  difference between the words "aésigner" and  "nommer", which could both be translated into  English by “appoint”. However, the word "nominate"  meant for the French putting forward a candidate's  name.
(20) Mr. WEST (United Kingdom) asked if the point  under discussion were whether or not a government  could nominate a nationai of another country, or  whether it was merely a question of reconciling the  English and French texts.
(21) Mr. BAUGNIET (Rapporteur) said that the  problem was as follows: the Administrative Coramis-  sion had approved two texts in Engiish and French  which were not in line with each other. The question  therefore was to decide which of those two texts the  Legal Committee would choose.
(22) Mr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America)  remarked that the original language of document
8C/ADM/1 was English, so that any adjustment  should be in the French text.
(23) Drawing attention to paragraph A, 2 of Article V  of the Constitution, where it was stated that "Not  more than one national of any Member State shall  serve on the Board.....", he thought that it was  quite clear that the person nominated had tc be a  national of the country which nominated him.
(24) Mr. HUZAYIN (Egypt) was against restrictirg  the freedom of Member States to nominate nationals  of other countries, if they so desired. He was  therefore in favour of the words suggested by the  delegate of the United States of America, namely  "the government of the State which has nominated  him", which would not restrict that freedom.
(25) Mr. WEST (United Kingdom) thought tnat the  point was substantive rather than legal. He suggested  that the Legal Committee might outline the difficulty  and prepare two alternative texts, one reflecting   LEGAL COMMITTEE  the intention of the United States delegation and the  other that of the deiegate of Egypt, for consideration  by the Administrative Commission.
(26) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) thought that, if the  Committee decided, as the United Kingdom delegate  had suggested, to submit two different texts, it  should none the less express a preference for one or  the other.
(27) Mr. MERMINCD (Switzerland) observed that, if  the proposed French text were agreed upon (i.e.  "Chacun d'eux représente le gouvernement de l'Etat  qui l'avait désigné"), the situation would be as  follows: each State would be free to nominat : any  one of its delegates as a candidate to the Executive  Board; however, in order to conform to paragraph  A. 2 of Article V, States would in fact be obliged to  avold appointing as their representatives on the  Board persons who were not included among their  nationals, For that paragraph stipulated that "not  more than one national of any Member State shall  serve on the Board at any one time, the President of  the Conference excepted".
(28) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) supported Mr.  Merminod's point of view.
(29) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) was in agreement  with the United Kingdom delegate in thinking that it  would be preferable to draw up two different texts  and try to reach agreement on one of them. The best  way of doing that seemed to him to draft a French  text corresponding exactly to the English version and  an English text corresponding exactly to the French  version.
(30) At the suggestion of Mr. WEST (United Kingdom)  it was agreed to adjourn for five minutes in order to  work out texts satisfactory to all delegates present,
(31) The meeting having reassembled, Mr, WEST  (United Kingdom) read out the following text,on which  there was a large measure of agreement among the  English-speaking delegations: "The Executive Board  shall be elected by the General Conference from  among the delegates appointed by the Member States  and shall consist of twenty-two members, each of  whom shall represent the government of the State of  which he is a national. The President of the General  Conference .......etc."
(32) It appeared that an almost word-for-word  French translation would be satisfactory to French-  Speaking delegations.
(33) Mr. West had one reservation to express in  connexion with States which allowed people to have  more than one nationality. In the case of a person  with more than one nationality, it would have to be  clear that, in representing one of the States whose  nationality he possessed, he was choosing for that  purpose the nationality of that State and could not, by  so doing, debar the second of the States whose  nationality he possessed from being separately  represented by one of its own nationals.
(34) Mr. CABOUAT (France) was prepared to  approve the text proposed by the United Kingdom    VIII-3  delegate, the French equivalent of which would be:  "Chacun d'eux représente le gouvernement de l'Etat  dont il est le ressortissant".
(35) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) suggested that in the  English text the number 22 should be written not in  figures, but in letters as it was in the French text.
(36) That proposal was approved.
(37) The Committee finally approved the following  text for paragraph 1:  "The Executive Board shall be elected by the  General Conference from among the delegates  appointed by the Member States and shall consist of  twenty-two members, each of whom shall represent  the Government of the State of which he is a national.  The President of the General Conference shall sit ex  officio in an advisory capacity on the Executive  Board,"
(38) The CHAIRMAN then invited the Committce to  examine paragraph 4 (document 8C/ADM/1, Annex IIL  page 4).
(39) Mr. BAUGNIET (Rapporteur) read out the few  changes which it was proposed to make to that  paragraph, the chief of which would be to replace the  words "En cas de décès ou de démission d'un des  membres" by the words "En cas de décès d'un des  membres ou en cas de démission présentée par un  des membres". That would avoid any interpretation  to the effect that resignations might be brought about  not by the member himself, but by his Government.
(40) Mr. HUZAYIN (Egypt) thought that it would be  better to make the English text perfectly clear by  amending it as in the French text to read: "In the  event of the death of a member, or the presentation  of his resignation by a member of the Executive  Board. ...." That would make it clear that it was a  question of the individual himself resigning and not of  the government's withdrawing him.
(41) In reply to the Egyptian delegate, Mr. SABA  (Legal Adviser) observed that in English the word  "resignation" was sufficiently precise and sufficiently  different from the word "dismissal" for it to be  unnecessary to amend the English text.
(42) Mr. WEST (United Kingdom) strongly endorsed  the remarks made by the Legal Adviser: resignation  could only be a voluntary act on the part of the  individual, so that the two texts were the same;  however, he would be prepared to accept the Egyptian  amendment, if the rest of the Committee so agreed.
(43) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) observed that only  death and resignation were dealt with in paragraph 4,  while disablement was not considered. He drew the  Committee's attention to the problems wnich might  arise in the case of, for instance, insanity.
(44) Mr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America)  agreed that, theoretically, it was possible that a  member might become insane and still insist on  attending meetings of the Executive Board, but that  - 885 -   VII-3 LEGAL COMMITTEE  danger had always existed; it was to be hoped that  the Board would continue tc be protected from such  a misfortune,
(45) In view of the remarks by the Legal Adviser and  the delegate of the United Kingdom, Mr. HUZAYIN  (Egypt) agreedto withdraw his amendment to the first  line of paragraph4, onthe understanding that it would  be recorded in the minutes,
(46) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) proposed that the  words "le Conseil" should be replaced by "le Conseil!  exécutif" in the first line of paragraph 4 (French  text).
(47) That proposal was accepted,
(48) The Committee finally approved the following  text for paragraph 4.  "In the event of the death or resignation of a  member of the Executive Board, his replacement for  the remainder of his term shall be appointed by the  Executive Board onthe nomination of the Government  of the State the former member represented, The  Government making the nomination andthe Executive  Board shall have rega: d to the factors set forth in  paragraph 2 of this Article.”
(49) The CHAIRMAN then invited the Committee to  examine the texts proposed for paragraphs 12 and
(50) Mr. SAUGNIET (Rapporteur) said that the  word "remanié" should be deletedfrom the third line  of the new paragraph 13 (Transitional Provisions,  French text).
(51) Mr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America)  observed that the word "revised" should also be  omitted in the English text.
(53) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) moved the addition of  the word "General" before "Conference" in the second  line of the English text of the new paragraph 12  (former paragraph 11 of document 8C/ADM/1,  Annex II). :
(55) In connexion with paragraph 13, Mr. Haguiwara  raised the question of the re-eligibility of former  members.
(56) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) considered that  former members should, according to the proposed  texts, he eligible for re-election provided their  governments reappointed them.
(57) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the question  was whether to disregard all that had happened in  the past, so that a member of the Board who had  exhausted his two consecutive terms of office would  still be re-eligible as a representative of his  government. He asked the Committee whether it  considered that the position should be made clear in    the Constitution, or whether it thought that the  question could be dealt with under the Rules of  Procedure.
(58) Mr. BAUGNIET (Rapporteur) observed that the  co. ditions for re-eligibility were defined in paragraph
3. The prcrisions of that paragraph, which had  remained unchanged, should therefore be followed  during the transitional period.
(59) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) drew the Committee's  attention to the unfortunate situation that might arise,  during the transitional period, if paragraph 3 were  applied too strictly. He wondered whether it would  be possible to insert provisions allowing of a more  flexible procedure during that period, in the Rules of  Procedure of the General Conference.
(60) Mr. BAUGNIET (Rapporteur) replied that that  question should be raised before the Administrative  Commission.
(61) The CHAIRMAN observed that nothing new was  involved. When the Executive Board had been  established in 1945, some members had been drawn  by lot to» serve for one year only, which meant that,  if re-elected, they could serve for only three years  altogether. He asked the delegate of Japan if he  would be content to have his statement recorded in  the minutes.
(62) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) said that he would be  prepared, if the Committee thought it possible, to  submit a text to the Administrative Commission to  have provisions inserted in the Rules of Procedure of  the General Conference, so as to ensure greater  flexibility in the conditions of re-eligibility laid down  in paragraph 3 during the transitional period.
(63) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) doubted vhether it  would be possible, by aniending the Rules of Procedure  or by any other means, to alter provisions which,  like those at present being examined by the Committee,  had already been approved by the Administrative  Commission.
(64) The CHAIRMAN thought that the feeling of the  Committee was that there was no need to insert a  special provision to cover that point, either in the  Constitution or in the Rules of Procedure.
(65) It was agreed that Mr. Haguiwara's suggestion  should merely be recorded in the minutes.  DRAFT AMENDMENTS TO THE RULES OF PROCEDURE OF  THE GENERAL CONFERENCE — COMPOSITION OF THE  EXECUTIVE BOARD (document 8C/ADM/3 (ID), Add.1)
(66) The CHAIRMAN stated that the United States  delegation had also submitted draft amendments to  the Rules of Procedure concerning the composition  of the Executive Board. The United States amend-  ments to paragraph 3 of Rule 30 and to Rule 96 having  been withdrawn, the only Rules to be examined by the  Committee were 95, 95A and 98. He asked the  Committee to consider the United States' amendments  in document 8C/ADM/3 (lI).  - 886 -   LEGAL  Rule 95 (Elections)
(67) Mr, HAGUIWARA (Japan) observed that, in view  of the changes just made in Article V of the Constitution,  Rule 95 of the Rules of Procedure shouldbeamended  as follows: (a) in paragraph 1, "ten members" should  be replaced by "eleven members"; (b} paragraph 2  should read as follows: "Only a delegate nominated by  the Government of the State of which he is a national for  election to the Executive Board may stand for election"
(68) The changes suggested by Mr. Haguiwara were  approved,
(69) The Committee then examined Rule 95A  (document 8C/ADM/3 (II), Annex I).
(705 The CHAIRMAN indicated the changes which  should be made in the figures contained in that  Article.
(71) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) drew the Committee's  attention to a mistake he had noticed in the third  line of the English text of the paragraph, where the  words "shall be elected by Executive Board" should  be replaced by "shall be elected to the Executive  Board".
(72) Mr, KOTSCHNIG (United States of America)  remarked that that was obviously a clerical error.  He suggested that the text might be amended to read:  "twenty4wo members shall be electedby the General  Conference pursuant to the provisions of Article V  of the Constitution. ...".
(73) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) preferred to keep to  the words of the Constitution (Article V, C.13  revised), which were: ".... shall be elected to the  Executive Board pursuant .... etc, "
(74) Mr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America)  withdrew his suggestion.
(75) Mr, CABOUAT (France) remarked that the  proposed English text of Rule 95A of the Rules of  Procedure exactly reproduced the text which had just  been approved for the new Article V, C.13 of the  Constitution. He thought therefore that the Committee  COMMITTEE     VIII-3  need now do no more than bring the French texts of  the two rules into line with each other.
(76) The Legal Adviser andthe Rapporteur approved  the remark made by Mr. Cabouat.
(77) It was agreed that Rule 95A, 1a English, French  and Spanish, should reproduce the wording of Article  V, C. 13 of the Constitution, as amended.  Rule 98 (death or resignation)
(78) Mr, KOTSCHNIG (United States of America)  pointed out that the situation here was exactly the  same: Rule 98inEnglish was an exact reproduction  of Article V, A, 4of the Constitution as amended; the  French and Spamushtexts also shouldtherefore be the  same in both cases.
(80) The CHAIRMAN stated that the Rapporteur would  report the results of the Committee's work to the  Administrative Commission,
(81) Mr. JARAMILLO ARANGO (Colombia) suggested  that, although the Spanish text had not been examined,  the respective documents -"*ouldbe alteredto conform  with the terms used in English and French, in those  parts on which agreement had been reached.
(82) The CHAIRMAN proposed that the Colombian  delegate's suggestion should be accepted.
(84) Mr. BAUGNIET (Rapporteur) asked if the  Committee would authorize him to inform the  Administrative Commission in his report only of  those texts which had been more or less changed and  which had been finally approved by the Committee.
(85) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) proposed that the  Committee decided to authorize Mr. Baugniet to  submit his report in the form which he had just  suggested.  The meeting rose at 6,40 p.m,  - 887 -