ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VI-35  THIRTY-FIFTH MEETING
2 December 1954 a? 10 a.m.  Chairman : Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Australia)  DRAFT RESOLUTION CONCERNING THE FUTURE PROGRAMME  (document 8C/DIV/137)
(1) The CHAIRMAN said that document 8C/DIV/137  contained the draft resolution appearing in document
8C/DIV/127, as amended at the previous day's  meeting.  Paragraph 1
(2) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director -Gencral)  suggested that the paragraph should be rearranged,  in conformity with the practice adopted for  resolutions; as follows:  "The General Conference  Approves the report ... and  Authorizes the Director-General ...."
(3) Adopted.
(4) He also suggested that, in order to avoid any  ambiguity, the last line but one of paragraph 1 should  read: "in the light of the principles laid down in the  aforementioned documents ...".  Definitions  Paragraph 2
(5) The CHAIRMAN observed that the English text  of the last three lines, together with the final line of  the second sub-paragraph, needed improvement.  The Secretariat could be entrusted with the task of  seeing that they corresponded to the French.
(6) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) wanted the word  compromise’ in the second line replaced by  something stronger.
(7) The CHAIRMAN suggested the word ‘endanger’
(8) Thus amended, paragraph 2 was adopted.  Paragraph 3
(9) The CHAIRMAN observed that the first line should  be brought into line with the French.
(10) After some discussion it was agreed that sub-  paragraph (c) should read: "(c) to develop hetter  mutual understanding among the peoples of the  world,
(11) Thus amended, paragraph 3 was adopted.  - 855 -     Paragraph 4
(12) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) suggested that the words  “as such'in the second line should be deleted.
(13) This amendment was adopted.
(14) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) suggested that the words  “in preparation for’ in paragraph 4 (vi) be deleted.
(15) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  said that the paragraph had been included to meet  the concerns of the Brazilian delegation. Special  activities, and major projects in particular, of  course, always necessitated preliminary studies,  the first stage, as it were, of implementation. But  the studies in question were of a different kind: they  were preliminary enquiries preceding the working  out of defined projects into possibilities, undertaken  even before deciding which of such possibilities  should be retained as a basis for projects, Such  preliminary enquiries were to enable the Secretariat  to keep abreast of a large number of problems which  might occasion action on the part of Unesco.
(16) The CHAIRMAN suggested that the paragraph  should run: "such enquiries, studies and research  as are necessary as a basis for special activities",
(17) This amendment was adopted.
(18) Paragraph 4, as amended, was adopted.  Paragraph 5
(19) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt), referring to  the last sub-paragraph, said that the projects  mentioned as requiring only small resources for a  limited time were presumably the activities  mentioned under 5 (i). The sentence should  therefore read: "Some of the projects mentioned  under (i) above ...".
(20) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) said that ‘will  require’ in the first line of the last sub-paragraph  should read ‘may require?
(21) In (b) of the second sub-paragraph, the words  “in carrying them out'(English text) should read of  their execution!
(22) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) asked whether  the phrase: "in accordance with such pro-  cedures as may be established meant that  the procedures would be altered and whether   VI-35 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON  a special procedure would be established.
(23) The CHAIRMAN referred the speaker to  paragraph 13.
(24) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) suggested that  the transition from paragraph 5 to paragraph 6  would be smoother if the following were added at the  end of paragraph 5: "Such major projects would be  selected in the light of the following considerations’.
(25) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  appreciated the Egyptian delegate's point, but did  not consider the addition necessary. The chain of  ideas carrying on from paragraph 5 to paragraph 6  seemed to him to be clear enough.
(26) With regard to the wording of paragraph 5,  Mr. Maheu proposed that in sub-paragraph (i) of the  French text'activités'be substituted for ‘projets’ and  that after sub-paragraph (ii), “Ces projets tendent...  should be replaced by "Les activités spéciales  tendent A apporter une solution pratique ... "
(27) Mr, SEDES (France) proposed that the last  paragraph of 5 be amended as follows: ‘In the case  of activities initiated by the Organization, some of  the projects will require only ..."
(28) Mr, MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  suggested that the sentence: "They are calculated  to provide a practical solution ..." might follow  immediately after the first sentence of paragraph 5.
(29) Adopted, subject to drafting changes.  Paragraph 6
(30) It was decided that the sentence beginning  "These priority areas..." should form a new  paragraph, and that the description of the areas  themselves should be set out according to the French  text,  Paragraph 7
(31) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  suggested that in line 2 of paragraph 7 (French  version) the word ‘ampleur be substituted for  ‘importance!
(32) Adopted,
(33) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) asked what was  meant by "While no specification is placed upon the  size of the major projects ..." It might be better  to say ‘While there is no specific limit on the size..."
(34) The CHAIRMAN otserved that the idea behind  the paragraph was that no specific recommendation  was made about the size of projects, rather than  that their size should be restricted.
(35) It was agreed to amend the beginning of the  sentence to read: "Major projects must be of  sufficient magnitude to ensure..."
(36) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  thought that the French text might be amended to  read: "L'ampleur de ces projets doit être  suffisante pour permettre d'obtenir...", the  beginning of the sentence being deleted.
(37) The proposed amendments were adopted.
(38) As the result of a point raised by Mr. SILLER  (Mexico), it was agreed to delete the words and  early (fourth line), by 8 votes to 3, with
1 abstention.
(39) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) pointed out  that a reference ‘as nevertheless made to time-  limits in paragraph 5.
(40) The CHAIRMAN suggested (and it was so  decided) that the sentence be amended to read:  "... must be of sufficient magnitude to ensure,  within a given time, substantial practical  results...”
(41) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General;  asked whether the French-speaking delegates would  be willing to substitute projets majeurs for projets  d'importance majeure; for the sake of concision  and conformity with the English text,
(43) Thus amended paragraph 7 was adopted.  Paragraph 8
(44) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel), referring to the second  line, said that the activities referred to were both  special and general. That should be made clear.
(45) He was also in favour of including paragraph
8 after paragraph 10, on the grounds that it merely  constituted advice to the Director-General,
(46) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  suggested that Directives d'exécution’be substituted  for "Ragles d'exécution! at the top of page 3 (French  text).  Major Projects and Aid to Member States might be  deleted.
(47) Mr. Maheu did not agree with the Israeli  delegate with regard to the position of paragraph 8.  It seemed logical to him to mention the financial  conditions for the planning of the future programme  in that paragraph; to make provision for a prelimi-  nary critical study in paragraph 9; and, in  paragraph 10, to invite the Director-General to  draw up the necessary plans, He also suggested  that the second line of the English text of paragraph
8 read: "which special activities can be completed. .  and of the French text: "à déterminer les activités  spéciales qui peuvent être conduites À leur terme...’
(48) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) asked why the same  provisions should not apply also to general  activities.
(49) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  replied that Mr. Avidor's remark touched on an   important question of substance which was  - 856 -  He also considered that the two sub-headings -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET Vi-35  liable to reopen the whole discussion.
(50) Mr. SEDES (France) proposed that the order  of the phrases in paragraph 8 be inverted, to read:  "In order to release funds for the planning of the  future programme, the Director-General is  authorized, with the approval of the Executive  Board..."
(51) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) wanted the words  “Major Projects’(sub-title) moved to immediately  before paragraph 9. It would be better to leave  paragraph 8 as it was.
(52) After some discussion, it was agreed to  eliminate sub-titles completely.
(53) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) thought that  the inversion suggested by Mr. Sedes would make  it look as though funds were only to be obtained by  means of transfers. Did not the Director-General  already have funds for planning work?
(54) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  considered that the only purpose of the French  delegate's proposal was to improve the arrangement  of the text, without changing its meaning.
(55) However, the problem to be settled was what  the paragraph meant, and whether it should stand.  It authorized the Director-General, with the  approval of the Executive Board, to release funds.  The provision was not absolutely essential, as the  Director-General was already authorized to make  transfers within the budget in certain cases, but it  had the advantage of drawing attention to the possi-  bility of such transfers. On the other hand, it might  arouse some anxiety in the Programme and Budget  Commission.
(56) Mr. SEDES (France) thought that, if no other  funds were provided for the planning work mentioned  in the resolution, the Director-General should be  given explicit authorization to make transfers for  the purpose,
(57) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) was not  convinced, and moved deletion of paragraph 8 as  unnecessary.
(58) Mr. LEE (United States of America) said the  only aim of the paragraph was to ensure that the  Directo~-General had sufficient funds for planning.  The Assistant Director-General had said that funds  were not needed. Hence the paragraph was no  - 857     longer needed, and he would second the proposal  for its deletion.
(59) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairrnan of the Executive  Board) said that the Director-General was now in a  strong position, having been authorized to make  transfers from line to line in the budget. Through-  out the year, money was always becoming free for  one reason or another. Hence paragraph 89 by  itself was enough.
(60) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) thought that,  nevertheless, paragraph 8 contained a useful idea  not repeated in paragraph 9 or 10, namely, that  the Director-General was authorized to release  funds for planning.
(61) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  proposed that paragraph 8 be deleted and that the  following sentence be added at the end of paragraph
10: '"He is authorized to release during 1955-56,  with the approval of the Executive Board, the funds  required for the preparation of these major  projects."
(62) No appropriation had yet been made for the  planning of future programmes, but, as it was a  new activity, it would probably be an omission to  make no mention of the possibility of budgetary  transfers in the document.
(63) By 10 votes to 1, with 1 abstention, it was  agreed to delete paragraph 8, and to make the  addition proposed by the Assistant Director-General  at the end of paragraph 10.
(64) Paragraphs 9 and 10 (amended) were  adopted.  Paragraph 11
(65) Mr. SEDES (France) proposed (and it was so  decided) that the third line should be amended to  read: '... National Commissions, the United  Nations and its Specialized Agencies, and non-  governmental organizations."
(66) Paragraph 11, thus amended, was adopted.
(67) Paragraphs 12 and 13 were adopted.
(68) Document 8C/DIV/137, as amended, was  adopted.  The meeting rose at 11.35 a.m.