8 December 1954 at 3.30 p.m.  Chain an: Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland)  Draft resolution 8C/DR/123: Consideration of  measures to promote the use of means of mass  communication to increase mutual confidence and  uncerstanding among the peoples of the world  (continued)
(1) Dr. MUDALIAR (India) said that the resolution  represented the culmination of the Conference's  work; its submission towards the end of the session  was evidence of the degree of unanimity reached  among delegates and a token of the feeling which was  rapidly spreading through Member States.
(2) The Conference had been an eventful one for  several reasons. [t had been attended by the largest  number of Member States to date; new Members had  been welcomed; and the resolution, if adopted, would  go a long way towards demonstrating to Member  States and the people of the world Unesco's true  ideology. It was encouraging to see that the resolu-  tion appealed to the people of the world to use every  effort, individually and collectively, to counteract  attempts to undermine peace, It would be welcomed  by Member States, and delegates would return home  with evidence that, at the eighth session of Unesco's  General Conference, a duty was imposed on every  citizen to endeavour to interpret the spirit of the  resolution, in the quest for happiness, well-being and  the protection of human rights ll over the world.
(3) Mr. FAUBLAS (Haiti) considered that, of all the  resolutions submitted to the Conference, resolution
8C/DR/123 was perhaps the most deserving of  delegates ' attention, In the name of the Haitian  people, the delegation of Haiti begged the other dele-  gations to approve it unanimously, and indeed by  acclamation. It hoped that the resolution would be  effectively and honestly applied, so that it would have  the force of law,
(4* Mr. DE SALIS (Switzerland) was sure that every  delegation would have been pleased to sponsor the  draft resolution. The text exactly expressed the feel-  ings of the Swiss people with regard to peace.  Freedom of information and objective commentaries  on events were indeed essential features of the  functioning of democracies. The Swiss delegate hoped  that the resolution would be effectively imp'emented  everywhere,
(5) Miss BOLLO (Uruguay) supported the  proposal, Uruguay believed in complete  freedom of information through the cinema,  wireless and press, and the Uruguayan  people would never resign .hemselves to  censorship,
(6) Sheexpressedher confidence that truth wouldspread  throughout the world, thanks tofreedom of information,  and did not share the opinion of those who said that the  press was governedsolely by its own interests. Refer-  ence hadalso been made to womens mission in the world,  and the Uruguayan delegate saidthat women believed in  a peace founded on honour, liberty, respect for honest  toil and cunsideration for human freedom.
(7) The Uruguayan delegation would vote in favour of  the proposal.
(8) Mr, CARBONELL (Cuba) said that his delegation  could accept no restrictions on the freedom of the  press, which was one of the constitutional principles  of his country. Liberty of the press was the buttress  of peace, The more attention was paid to frerdom of  the press and to the free expression of ideas, the  more easily would better understanding be achieved  among men,
(9) Mr. LI U-YING (China) stressed the undeniable  complexity of the question of peace. That morningthe  word "falsification" had even been used in that con-  nexion, The Chinese delegate, however, would place  the emphasis On the value of the guiding principles of  freedom and sincerity. Recalling the words of a  speaker at the previous meeting, he stressed the fact  that to talk at length about culture was not enough.  Culture was too often used as a means to other ends.  He concluded by expressing his ardent desire for a  free and genuine peace.
(10) Mr, HAYEK (Czechoslovakia) said that his dele-  gation attached considerable importance to the draft  resolution, In the course of recent history the  interests and indapendence of the Czechoslovak people  had been gravely threatened by pressure and attacks  which had largely taken the form of a tendentious use  of the media of communication. Similar campaigns  had compromised the interests of other peoples and,  indeed, the peace of the world.
(11) Mr. Hayek recalled that the National Assembly  of his country had in 1951 passed a law prohibiting  war propaganda. For that reason the Czechoslovak  delegation was interested in any measures calculated  to emphasize the peaceful purposes and genuine  objectivity which should characterize all news  services, It was anxious that the exchange of informa-  tion and the comparison of ideas should be developed  along those lines, in order to provide a basis for, and  strengthen, mutual understanding, friendship and  co-operation among the peoples of the world.
(12) The Czechoslovak delegation had accordingly  given its support to the Soviet draft resolution and had  taken part in preparing the draft under consideration.  - 496 -   PROGRAMME AND  It had been pleased to find that several delegations  had put forward the same 1deas and had agreed on the  text. That went a long way towards reducing tensions  in a matter 1n which Unesco could play a useful and  perhaps decisive part. The Czechoslovak delegation  therefore associated itself with all those who proposed  the unanimous approval of the resolution.
(13) Mr. MICHALOWSKI (Poland) supported the  resolution, in spite of the difficulty of combating the
24-hour daily stream of war propaganda being issued  through mass communication media in some parts of  the world.
(14) Doubts had been expressed during the discussion  whether certain parts of the resolution might not  interfere with the principle of freedom of information  In the opinion of the Polish delegation, however,  Unescu's Constitution, the United Nations Charter and  the resolution adopted by the United Nations in 1947  implied a plain duty to oppose the use of mass com-  munication for the criminal nurpose of spreading  propaganda for hatred and war,
(15) It could be argued that such action would infringe  the Declaration of Human Rights; but Article 29 of  that Declaration provided that freedom of information  was subject to restrictions defined by the regulations  of State defence, public order, security, health and  moials. Just as in trade there was no freedom for  the sale of pornographic literature or traffic in  persons, so in propaganda there musi be no freedom  to encourage hatred and war. Radio, which was one  of the finest media for promoting culture, must not  be used for the annihilation of man; and despite  Unesco's limited possibility of influencing political  propaganda, all means of mass communication at the  disposal of Unesco and its Member States must be  used to implement the resolution and promote Unesco's  auns and the well-being of mankind.
(16) Mr. DUERING (Sweden) added the Swedish  delegation's support to the important resolution,  which he regarded as a promise for the future. He  recalled that some years before there had existed in  Europe a community of minds known as "the republic  of letters". He had always hoped that Unesco would  create a republic of free minds devoted to the promo-  tion of culture, and he was convinced that culture  must be based on the free flow and exchange of  information.
(17) The Swedish delegation whole-heartedly supported  the resolution,
(18) Mr. SHARIF (Pakistan) associated himself with  the spirit of the resolution, which called for the use  of all means of mass communication to promote  peace and co-operation. He coupled his support with  a wish and a prayer that the spirit be transformed  Into practice so that the resolution would not remain  one of so many empty professions of faith,
(19) Mr. VO VAN LUA (Viet-Nam) was entirely in  favour of the draft resolution, which was inspired by  the highest sentiments of humanity and justice.
(20) He wished, however, to comment on the last  paragraph but one. Although the Viet-Namese  delegation was against any censorship of the oress or  of the various means of expressing ideas, it was none  BUDGET     COMMISSION IV-33  the less true that freedom of expression could be a  two-edged weapon. For ten years Viet-Nam had been  the victim of freedom of expression in certain forms.  In some cases, moreover, even objective Information  could be tendentious.
(21) In the circumstances. the delegate of Viet-Nam  wished the last paragraph but one to be amended as  follows:  "to take the necessary measures to assure free-  dom of expression in normal circumstances and to  remove barriers to the free flow of objective and  pacific information between Member States..."
(22) The last suggestion, incidentally, followed out  one of the ideas voiced by the Czechoslovak delegate,
(23) The CHAIRMAN felt that the point raised by the  Viet-Namese delegate was primarily a question of  interpretation. He proposcd that his comments be  noted, but pointed out that it would be inadvisable at  the last moment to redraft a text which had been  worded after long and care ful thought.
(24) Mr. FORSYTH (New Zealand) supported the  comments of the Chairman. The resolution was the  product of great labour and if conceived in sincerity,  could be a turing point in world history. There must  be no doubt that cach signatory had the full support of  his government, otherwise 1l could only be a farce.
(25) For his part, he accepted the resolution as a  sincere expression of the combined efforts of the  great nations whose names were attached to it, and  he would be sorry to see it altered in any way.
(26) Mr. CARBONELL (Cuba) thought that, 1f the  word undistorted” were deleted, the draft could be  unanimously approved.
(27) Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) said that his delegation  was happy to be among the authors of the resolution,  and was very pleased at the attitude of mind to which
1t bore witness. In his opimion, the text could forma  common basis for all Member States in their work  for freedom of thought and for peace.
(28) The CHAIRMAN thought he would be interpreting  the feelings of the difiurent speakers correctly if he  proposed that the Commission adopt the draft resolu-  tion by acclamation.
(29) Draft resolution 8C/DR/123 was adopted  unanimously by acclamation,  Draft resolution 8C/DR/104: Emergency aid to  States afflicted by natural disasters.
(30) Mr. BRICHET (France) first reminded the  Commission of the disaster which had just ravaged  several countries in Latin America, and Haiti in  particular, He pointed out that in such a situation the  universal impulse to give aid might well take shape in  the repairing of material damage, and added that the  French delegation regretted that neither the United  Nations nor the Specialized Agencies had any relief  fund for meeting disasters of that kind. After com-  menting on his delegation's proposal, Mr, Brichet  hoped that the Commission and the General Conference  would adopt the resolution, which had no budgetary  implications,  - 497 -
(31) Mr. CARBONELL (Cuba) secondedthe proposal  His country had beenthe firstto go to the aid of Haiti  in the recent disasters suffered by its people. The  ~ssistance given had consisted in the provision of  food, medical supplies and over $50,000. By virtue  of his office he had himself been responsible for giving  that aid, which had established permanent ties  between Cuba and Haiti.
(32) The CHAIRMAN put the resolution to the vote  and 1t was unanimously approved.  Draft resolution concerning the Future Programme  (document 8C/BUD/2 Add. 1).
(33) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Chairman of tne  Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget) said  that document 8C/PRG;13 had been referred to the  Advisory Committee after preliminary discussion by  the Programme and Budget Commission. Three  questions were to be studied
(1) the definition of general and special activities;
(2) criteria for selection and development of major  projects within the future programme, and
(3) directives to the Director-General and the  Executive Board for implementing the remodelled  programme.  Draft resolution 3C/DR/86 had also been referred to  the Committee.
(34) He recalled briefly the history of Unesco's  efforts to concentrate the programme, which had  started with the adoption at the fifth General Confe-  rence of a decalogue of ten major items of activity,  Fhe seventh General Conference had set up a working  party to study the future programme, whose recom-  mendations had been circulated to Member States for  comment, and finally, during the past year, the  Executive Board, after long discussion, buth formal  and informal, had drawn up document 8C/PRG/13,  which was an invitation to the eighth General Confe-  rence to take practical steps towards the reorientation  and the remodelling of Unesco's programme.
(35) The Advisory Committee had examined the  questions referred to it and had realized that, while  the Conference had to give specific gnidance to the  Director-General and the Executive Board for prepar-  ing the 1957-58 programme, it vas important toleave  from freedom in the details of the programme. The  Committee’s conclusions were submitted in document
8C/BUD/2 Add. i, which, while not a model of per-  fection, was at least a practical step forward. He  hoped that the Commission would recommend the  document for adoption by the General Conference.
(36) In conclusion, he paid a tribute to the Advisory  Committee for its spirit of co-operation and its con-  cern with the interests of the Organization as a whole  rather than with those of individual Member States.  The resolution which had been prepared was of great  importance to Unesco's future and he formally moved
1ts adoption.
(37) The CHAIRMAN, on behalf of all his colleagues,  thanked the Advisory Committee and its Chairman  for the detailed and thorough work they had performed  for the Commission.
(38) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive  Board), speaking on behalf of the Bcard, paid a warm  BUDGET     COMMISSION  tribute to the Advisory Committee on Programme and  Budget. He had bven present during the discussions  of the Committee and appreciated its concentration on  the practical action which the Board had hoped would  result from document 8C/PRG/13.
(39) Mrs. HEFFELFINGER (United States of Americy  supported both the resolutior and the report, which,  far from representing hastily considered action, were  the implementation of 1deas long discussed by the  Secretariat, the E+ utive Board and the Conference.  The debuies durin, the present Corference had shown  a spirit of co-operation in seeking to promote the  welfare of the Orgamization and concern that Unesco  was not making sufficient impact on the intellectual  world or on the people, the document was the result  of long-range planning to enable Unesco to take its  proper place in the present-day world. While the  gradual transtormation of ideas into practical plans  was not perfect, in her opinion it represented an  admirable balance between the divergent, and some-  times conflicting, needs and interests of Member  States.
(40) The resolution was a milestone in Unesco's  history and, if adopted and accepted with good faith,  could make the eighth General Conference a memorable  Occasion.
(41) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) supported the resolution,  which had been formulated as a result of compromise  and the practice of international understanding among  members of the Committee.
(42) It had been necessary at the present juncture to  take stock of the situation and for the first time it had  been admitted that Unesco was not yet making suffi-  cient impact on the intellectual world or on the masses,  He hoped that in implementing the resolution a just  balance would be struck between activities for the  Organization and activities for the world in general.  Permanent activities were not enough, for Unesco  would be judged not nn its work at headquarters, but  on what it did within Member States, without which it  could not gain the support of the people.
(43) For their spirit of give-and-take and international  understanding he commended the report and the  resolution for adoption by the Commission.
(44) Mr. VERONESE (Italy) said that his delegation  supported the draft resolution and congratulated the  Advisory Committee on its work. In particular, he  stressed the importance of the document, which, with  the resolution recently adopted on strengthening  National Commissions, marked an important stage in  Unesco's development. He asked all delegations to  call the attention of their Governments to the  importance of those directives.
(45) Mr. Veronese also wished to make 1t clear that  the work contemplated in the document could be  carried out only with the whole-hearted assistance  and active support of Member States, He therefore  asked them to facilitate the Director-General's work  in preparing the 1957-58 programme,
(46) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) congratulated the  Executive Board on document 8C/PRG/13, which was  a real exercise in self-examination on the part of  Unesco; he pointed out that the document had provided  - 498 -   PROGRAMME AND  the basis on whichthe Advisory Committee had drafted  the resolution under consideration.
(47) The French delegation supported the resolution,  more particularly for the following reasons:
(1) in answer to repeated demands for concentra-  tion, the Advisory Committee had produced a concise  document, which was thus more likely to be read and  understood.
(11) the draft resolution also added a number of  important ideas to document AC/PRG/13 in particular,  it accentuated the interdependence of the two parts of the  programme, Le., the general activities representing  the Organization's permanent functions, which were  of interest to all Member States, and the special  activities designed to meet particular needs of  Member States.
(48) The French delegation hoped that Unesco would  continue to promote the growth of an international  community of minds, and thought that it should not  become a mere organ for distributing aid to Member  States. It was therefore inadvisable to encourage dne  type of activity to the detriment of the other and, in  particular, to develop special activities at the ex-  pense of general activities. If the Organization ever  had larger funds, they should be equally divided  between the two categories. Subject to those comments  the French delegation enthusiast.cally supported the  draft resolution.
(49) Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS (United Kingdom)  supported the resolution and hoped that it would be  approved by the General Conference. He shared the  sentiments of some of the previous speakers,  especially the delegate of France, wru nz? rad a  tribute to the Executive Board. He wished especially  to pay a tribute to the Chairman of the Board, whose  long and extensive labours had contributed so greatly  to the preparation of the report. At the end of his  term of office he was leaving a testament for which  all would be grateful.
(50) The United Kingdom delegation, however, did  not believe, as the Chairman of the Adv.sory Com-  mittee had seemed to imply, that the Board's report  was simply a new decalogue to replace the one sub-  mitted by the fifth General Conference; 1t was rather  an effort to present in summary form the experience  and experiments of the past nine or ten years.
(51) He congratulated the Chairman of the Advisory  Committee on his excellent work.
(52) Mr. DUERING (Sweden) joined in the tribntes  expressed by the United Kingdom delegate.
(53) The Swedish National Commission Was particu-  larly interested in three items in document 8C/PRG/13.
(54) Firstly, while he did not intend to make a formal  proposal, he hoped that clearing house activities  would not be too limited in scope.
(35) Secondly, the National Commission had had  doubts on the formulation of paragraph 68 of the  document, but he felt that they had been satisfied by  the discussions at the plenary meetings and in the  Advisory Committee, which had resulted in a new  definition of general and special activities.  {58) Thirdly, the most important part of the draft  resolution in respect of Unesco's future was contained  in paragraphs 10-13, which made it clear that the  programme would no longer be presented as a  BUDGET     COMMISSION 1V-33  reflection of the Secretariat's organization, and that  projects would 11 future be presented not in accord-  ance withthe various disciplines, but intheir entirety.  Such an arrangement would facilitate the discussion  of projects at fu:ure conferences.
(57) In conclusion, he expressed whole -hearted  support for the resolution.
(58) Mr. FORSYTH (New Zealand) joined in the praise  which had been accorded to the documents, but re-  emphasized a previous statement that full use was not  being made of the teaching profession in the planning  of programmes. The teaching profession could be one  of the most valuable instruments In implementing the  aims set out in No. 4 of the resolution, He recalled  the decision not to increase the subvention to the World  Confederation of Organizations of the Teaching Pro-  fession and urged that, if there were any doubt about  the merit of such organizations, it was the duty of  Unesco to provide them with the stimulus and ma-  chinery necessary for improvement, since they could  supply the answer to many of the Organization's  problems.
(59) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) pointed out that the draft  under examination was the result of long efforts by the  Secretariat and the Executive Board, and he had  personally seen the part played by the Chairman of the  Board in preparing the document, He also wished to  pay tribute to the work of the Advisory Committee and  its Chairman, and to the Secretariat,
(60) The document marked out the path that Unesco  was to follow in future. The inadequacy of the contacts  between the Secretariat and Member States had often  been deplored ir the past, but some progress had been  made, and the document under consideration asked the  Director-General to maintain and develop the collabo-  ration which had been established between the  Secretariat, Member States and international non-  government organizations. The document rounded off  the already appreciable work accomplished by the  Commission, and Mgr Maroun was happy to associate  himself with the tributes paid to all who had helped to  draft it.
(61) Mr. ABDELRAHMAN (Egypt) wished to associate  himself with the appreciation expressed to the Execu-  tive Board and ‘o all who had been .oncerned with the  preparation of document 8C/PRG/13. The document  represented a transition, and he hoped that co-  operative work during the coming two years, by the  Executive Board, the Secretariat and Member States,  would produce # programme for 1957-58 which was  still nearer to the desired objective.
(62) Mr. MAHIJ:U (Assistant Director-General) first  emphasized the importance that the Secretariat  attached to the document, to the ideas it expressed,  and the directives it contained. He assured the  Commission that the Director-General and the  Executive Boar 1 would spare no pains to follow those  directives faithfully, He thought, however, that in a  document of that kind the spirit was more  important than the letter. Situations not  expressly provided for would no doubt arise  and would hav2 to be dealt with in accordance  with the spirit of the document.  - 499 -   IV-34 PROGRAMME AND
(63) Mr. Maheu added that the Secretariat had noted  all the suggestions and comments made during the  discussions, and would certainly strive to strengthen  the existing bonds between Unesco and the teaching  profession, as suggestad by the New Zealand  delegate. It would also bear in mind the comments  of the Swedish and French dele ates.
(64) Mr. Maheu agreed with the Egyptian delegate  that the document did not give a final definition of  the rôle and future of Unesco; it marked a stage on  a very long journey. Like all living things, Unesco  was continually developing. But the document had  the virtue of freeing Unesco from the tendency to  conservatism and of opening up new paths for the  Organization to follow.
(65) In conclusion, Mr. Maheu endorsed all the  comments made about the part played by the  Executive Board and the Advisory Committee, and  emphasized that the Director-General attached great  importance to the draft resolution, which was, in hic  eyes, the starting point for the Organization's future  activities.
(66) The CHAIRMAN did not think that the Commis-  sion could act on the proposals, made by the Brazilian  BUDGET     COMMISSION  delegation in document BC/DR/86, for the  amendment of the report presented by the  Executive Board (document 8C/PRG/13). He  proposed, however, that the Brazilian  delegat.on's comments be noted.
(67) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  pointed out that the main points in the Brazilian  delegation's proposals had beer. included in the draft  resolution in document 8C/BUD/2 Add, 1.
(68) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Chairman of the  Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget) said  that draft resolution 8C/DR/86 had been prepared  after discussion in the Advisory Committee, and he  understood that the Brazilian delegate was satisfied  with the form in which it appeared,
(69) There being no seconder, the CHAIRMAN said  that note would be taken of the resolution,
(70) The resolution contained in document 8C/BUD/2  Add. 1 was put to the vote and adopted unanimously.  The meeting rose at 5. 20 p.m.  THIRTY-FOURTH MEETING
9 December 1954 at 10 a.m.  Chairman: M. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland)
(1) As there was no quorum, the CHAIRMAN decided  to adjourn the meeting for ten minutes, in accordance  with Rule 69 of the Rules of Procedure of the General  Conference.
(2) Although there was still no quorum when the  meeting resumed, the CHAIRMAN proposed that the  meeting continue,
(4) The CHAIRMAN asked Mr. Gardner Davies,  Chairman of the Advisory Committee on Programme  and Budget to submit the draft appropriation resolution  for 1955-56.
(3) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Chairman of the  Advisory Committee on Programme and budget)  observed that document sc/ BUD/6 rev, 2 setoutthe  work of the Advisory Committee in digestible form,
(6) He pointed out that, in the English text of the  document, the figure for the total appropriation in  Part I of Annex I should read $847, 861,  {7) Mr. TOROCHESHNIKOV (Union of Soviet    Socialist Republics) announced the intention of his  delegation to vote against the à propriation for
1955-56, The reason was to be found in the Soviet  delegation's objection, already expressed, to the  adoption of a budget at such a high level.
(8) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) shared the view  of the Soviet delegate onthe budget total but expressed  his intention of voting for the proposed appropriation The  General Conference had, by a majority decision, ac-  cepted the budget level and it was now necessary onlyto  adopt the form which the appropriation was to take.
(9) The CHAIRMAN observedthatthe decision  concerning the budget total was a matter for the  General Conference, not the Commission.
(10) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) thought  the Un.tedKingdom delegates observation was correct
(11) His impression was thatthe Commission had  embarked on its work with the understanding that, on  the explicit instructions of the Conference, 1t was to  keep to a given budget ceiling. To challenge the ceil-  ing fixed was therefore contrary to those instructions
(12) Mr. Maheu asked the delegate of the  USSR to withdraw his statement and to put  forward his observations at a plenary  meeung,  - 500 -