29 November 1954 at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman. Mr. GARDNFR DAVIES (Australia)  ITEM 7.4 OF THE AGENDA: CONSIDERATION OF THE  REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD ON THE FUTURE  PROGRAMME OF UNESCO (document 8C/PRG/12)
(1) The CHAIRMAN announced that the Committee  would deal first with the four questions referred to  it by the Programme Commission (definition of  general and special activities, criteria for the  selection of major projects, schedule under which  the Director-General and Executive Board could  implement the remodelled programme, and  suggestions proposed by the Brazilian delegation on  the future programme, document 8C/DR/86). It  would then discuss the Director-General's suggestions  for adapting the proposed programme to the budget  ceiling which had beer. voted, and make final  recommendations to the Commission on the cuts  necessary to fit the approved programme into the  approved budget. It would then have to discuss the  Appropriation Resolution.
(2) He opened the general discussion on the re-  modelling of the future programme.
(3) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) said  that the Committee would probably receive the final  text of the programme and budget on 7 December
1954; an Appropriation Resolution would then be  submitted to it. The Committee's main task for the  time being was to clarify the principles which were  to guide the Director-General in drawing up future  programmes,
(4) In the first place, the Committee would have to  define key terms such as general activities, special  activities and major projects, as clearly as possible.
(5) In the second place, the Committee would have  to pronounce upon two essential problems: the  balance to be maintained between general activities  and special activities, and selection of the fields in  which the Director-General would be asked to submit  major projects to the next session of the General  Conference.
(6) In the third place, the Committee would have to  deal with the provisions or methods to be adopted  with a view to the gradual reorganization of  Unesco's activities,
(7) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive  Board) hoped that a lead would be given by the  Committee in defining major projects by means of  examples. He also remarked that, although the  subject had not yet been discussed by the  Commission, technical aid, or preferably  Aid to Member States should be considered,  like technical assistance, as a broad system  - 835 -     within which requests of all kinds might come.
(8) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) thought that the  Brazilian proposal contained in draft resolution  No. 86 should be considered in the light of the  result of the discussion on general and special  activities. Referring to the Assistart Director-  General's remarks on the definition of te-ms, he  said that the task before the meeting was not one  of definition but of revision.
(9) Mr. LEE (United States of America) had talked  to the Brazilian delegation and felt certain it had  not intended to insist on the wording oi uic proposal,  so long as the ideas contained in it were taken into  account.
(10) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) considered that  paragraphs 13-24 of the Executive Board document
(8C/PRG/13) were sufficiently clear on the subject  of the remodelled programme. Why seek farther?
(11) The CHAIRMAN replied that the Programme  Commission had asked the Advisory Committee to  translate that document into a more fully digested  one which would make its task easier.
(12) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) disagreed with the  pasis on which the classification between general  and special activities in the Executive Board  document had been made. The question was not  one of structure or of origin, but of what the  programme sought to accomplish, General acti-  vities, the delegate of India maintained, should be  all those that were of a universal character,  including therefore some that were labelled as  special in the Unesco programme, and special  activities those which, wherever initiated, were  designed to serve particular needs in the different  areas. There should be no question of a balance  between permanent and special activities, since  the basic purpose of permanent activities was to  serve special activities.
(13) Mr. PANNETON (Canada) had already drawn  the attention of the Programme Commission to the  division into general and special activities, He  had objected that he did not understand the distinction  between them, and had suggested the substitution  of other terms. It would be advisable to emphasize  the fact that general activities had a universal, or  preferably world-wide character.
(14) Mr. LEE (United States of America) suggested   vi-31 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  that it might be well to refer back to what the docu-  ment was trying to accomplish: namely, the better  use of limited resources. A special activity was  by definition an activity with limits and, in preparing  a special project, it was necessary to look first for  its basic limitations from the point of view of  objectives, time schedule and work methods. The  delegate of the United States of America then  presented a draft proposal, Suggestions for directive  concerning future programme (8C/DIV/122), which  the United States delegation proposed as a tentative  besis for discussion, That document aimed at a  procedure, he explained, that would be detailed  enough to serve as a directive, while leaving a great  deal of latitude to the Director-General and to the  Executive Board,
(15) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) asked for an  explanation: why divide the p..ogramme into general  and special activities at all? It was usually uncer-  stood that general activities were continuous, while  special activities, though they were attributed a  major part of the budget, were temporary, and  suffered the geod or bad fortunes of Unesco.
(16) In document 8C/BUD/2 the Advisory Committee  had deemed it harmful to consider an artificial  division, That division was perhaps the cause of  many misunderstandings. However much the pro-  gramme was referred to as integral, division had  occurred naturaily for many years, and had to be  dealt with by the Committee as a serious matter.
(17) The delegate of Egypt recommended agreement  in principle with the proposal submitted by the  delegate of the United States of America of dividing  activities into two sections, those Unesco ran on its  own, continuously, and those it ran in collaboration  with Member States, or other organizations, which  were by nature limited. That division would  eliminate a number of difficulties: (1) the matter of  the balance between the types of activities, since  the first category was strictly limited from the  budgetary point of view. (2) The idea held by many  delegates that one type of activity was directed  towards certain countries while the other was  dii ected towards another group of countries. It  would also make evaluation easy, since each project  would be def.nitely outlined from the start.
(18) The CHAIRMAN proposed an interval of ten  minutes for the study of the United States proposal.  (The gencral discussion was then resumed.)
(19) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) thanked the Uruted  States delegate for having provided the Committee  with clearer definitions. He thought 1t unnecessary,  however, to try to make each definition exhaustive -  that would be a dangerous course. Moreover, terms  should be used which the general public could easily  understand.
(20) The CHAIRMAN suggested that the delegate of  the United States of America might look upon his  specific indications as examples of a non-restrictive  character, or as open to completion by the Committee.   (21) Mr, JUNANKAR (India), in reply to the remarks  - 836 -  made by the delegate of France, proposed that  general activities be defined as those which served  Member States in accordance with the basic  objectives of the Organization, while special  activities were defined as those which served a  Member State or a group of Member States in the  solution of their specific problems. The character-  istics mentioned after the definition in the United  States document could be transferred to the  description of a major project on page 2 of  document 8C/DIV/122; nor did they apply only to  a major project, The de'egate of India quoted the  proposed Educational Development Fund as a  special activity which was wider ir scope. He  reminded the meeting that the Organization was not  tied forever to a fixed budget ceiling and that it was  not necessary to assume a permanent basis of  scarcity in making these definitions.
(22) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) agreed with  the delegate of India, A clear division was  essential between those activities which the  Director-General was planning for Member States,  and the technical aid which they requested.
(23) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) reminded the  meeting that his question still remained unanswered:  what was the aim of the division between special and  general activities? Was one section to be regarded  more highly than the other? Or was remodelling  a mere relabelling?
(24) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive  Board) stated that in his view the general activities  built up the general fund of knowledge without  which Unesco could not function at all, and the  best title for those activities was general. He  included in that category all work with non-govern-  mental organizations, public information,  international organizations, and the preparation of  international conventions and regulations, although  the latter were becoming more and more a matter  for the United Nations. Two of those activities  were not included in the United States resolution.
(25) For the rest of the programme it was  essential to concentrate first on major projects,  ard secondly on technical aid. The reason for  allocating a sum under technical aid to be used for  special requests of Member States was that the  latter would not be sufficiently interested to set  up National Commissions until they felt that Unesco  could help them at short notice in something they  were particularly keen on.
(26) The programme, Sir Ronald concluded, in  answer to the question of the Egyptian delegate,  had been stated in the form of general and special  activities. There did not seem to be any particular  reason for changing it.
(27) Mr. HACQUAERT (Belgium) did not think  that the problem was very clearly presented in the  American document. It mentioned major projects  and priority zones. The use of the latter term  was limited to special activities, whereas it should  also be applied to general activities.
(28) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) said that   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VI-31  subdivisions would be helpful both in explaining and  in executing the work. He understood that the first  section was aimed at forming a central pool of  knowledge and the second at making use of it in  specific sectors,
(28) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) considered that the  Committee should retain the division of the pro-  gramme into general activities and special activites,  for they were terms which everyone understood -  if only within Unesco.
(30) General activities were aimed at developing:  (a) education, science and culture, and an inter-  national meeting of minds; and (b) a better mutual  understanding between nations and cultures.
(31) Such activities were carried on continuously  and were of general interest to all Member States.
(32) The special activities were aimed at: (1)  obtaining quick and practical results in the fields  defined in paragraph (a) of general activities; and
(2) helping Member States.
(33) They included the investigation and tackling of  special problems, or again they directly concerned  a Member State or a group of Member States. Their  duration was strictly limited.
(34) It was imperative to mark the close relation  existing between the two kinds of activity; the  French delegation was strongly opposed to any  attempt to dissociate them,  General activities
(35) Mr. PANNETON (Canada) thought that there  was no need to distinguish between the two types of  activity. He drew the Committee's attention to the  last words of the third paragraph in the English text  submitted by the United States delegation,
(36) The fourth kind of general activity was: '(4)  Programme planning and appraisal of a general  nature”. The Canadian delegate considered the  French delegation's definition to be more satisfactory.
(37) Mr. LEE (United States of America) understood  the difficulties of the Belgian delegate on questions  of terminology, but pointed out that in all branches  of activity it was necessary to establish a certain  number of technical terms, Mr, Lee welcomed the  French delegate's contribution to the discussion,
(38) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) drew  attention to two serious omissions in the American  text, when compared with the Executive Board's  report on the remodelling of the future programme  of Unesco (document 8C/PRG/13). Paragraph 23 of  the Executive Board's text read: "(B) Assistance to  international collaboration between specialists”,  and "(D) The preparation of international conventions  ard regulations”. There was no sign of those  activities in the United States proposal.
(39) Moreover, it was important to know what the  United States delegate meant by programme  appraisal. Was it a question of a purely admini-  strative appraisal, or was it a proposal similar to  that of the Brazilian delegation in document 8C/DR/* 3?  As a matter of fact, the Brazilian dalegation had  asked for another activity to be added to paragraph
23, namely: "F. The investigation and study of  - 837 -     fresh subjects with a view tc the preparation of  future programmes of action’.
(40) Mr. Maheu had always thought that appraisal  should be the last stage in the carrying out of any  project,
(41) As regarded international conventions, those  with which Unesco dealt were highly specialized and  did not come within the province of the United  Nations,
(42) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive  Board) suggested that the following sentence should  be incorporated in the text: "General activities  are all those continuing activities which provide  the basis of the programme and are generally of  interest to Member States”.
(43) Mr. LEE (United :jtates of America) accepted  the suggestions made, Une of the two omissions  referred to by the Assistant Director-General had  been made on the perhaps erroneous assumption  that international collaboration between specialists  might be either a form of generai iniormation or a  type of special activity.
(44) He did not object to the inclusion of the phrase  proposed by Sir Ronald Adam, and agreed with the  importance of paragraphs 19 and 20 of the Executive  Board's document, He had no strong feelings as to  where point 4 of General activities (United States  text) was placed, but insisted that the Conference  should recognize a continuing ard not intermittent  obligation of planning and appraisal of a general  nature,
(45) Mr, ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt), comparing  the United States and Executive Board texts in the  hight of the Assistant Director-General's remarks,  thought that assistance to international collaboration  between specialists was not unimportant but should  not be placed in toto under general activities. A  part of those activities were limited in time and  scope. The same applied to the preparation of  international conventions and regulations. The  promotion of a convention, for instance, was a  special activity, Those two types of activity ought  to be subdivided into the two sections.
(46) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  pointed out that anything in the programme could  be described as special or general according to  the viewpoint of the observer. He urged the Com-  mittee to try to reach a satisfactory agreement.
(47) Mr. Maheu feared that, by engaging in  discussions of terminology, the Committee might  "forsake the substance for the shadow’, especially  as its time was limited in comparison with that  spont by the Executive Board on studying the  question.
(48) As far as general activities were concerned,  it was a question of continuing services: exchange  of information, technical advice to the United  Nations, etc.
(49) Special activities, on the other hand, related  to concrete problems capable of delimitation in  time and place. That was the main difference  between the two sections. If a good many special  activities were considered, some would be found to   vi-31 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  stand out above others as mountains towered above  their foothills. Those were the major projects in  favour of which available funds would be concentrated.
(50) Mr. PANNETON (Canada) thought that the  Committee should take the situation as it was and  accept the division into general activities and special  activities, Those terms were just as suitable as  any others, as long as they were properly defined,
(51) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) preferred the list in  paragraph 23 to the text of the United States delegate.  The list in paragraph 23, however, should be com-  pleted by an additional item on Education for Inter-  national Co-operation and Human Rights. The  American document made constant reference to news;  the thirst for news was a modern disease.
(52) Mr. Frangois appreciated the ideas expressed  in the amendments proposed by the Brazilian  delegation (document 8C/DR/86), and particularly  those in item F: Investigations and Studies.
(53) He proposed that the text which he himself had  submitted should be examined at the following  meeting.
(54) The CHAIRMAN suggested that, in line 1 of the  definition of general activities in the United States  text, the word activities on the second occasion of  its use should be replaced by functions. The phrase  proposed by the Chairman of the Executive Board  should then be inserted, after which the text would  run: "the following is a non-limitative list", with  the list proposed by the Executive Board to follow.  Point 4 of the United States draft could be revised  in conne~inn with draft resolution No. 86 submitted  by the Brazuian delegation.
(55) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) drew the Committee's  attention to the wording of document 8C/PRG/13,  Paragraph 23 B read: "Assistance to international  collaboration between specialists. It would be  better to say; ''Assistance to international  collaboration in the fields of science, art and  literature".
(56) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  considered it unwise to relate the idea behind the  Brazilian amendment to the fourth item in the  American list of general activities, The two ideas  were not the same: the United States delegation had  an administrative aim in view, as was apparent from  the third paragraph from the end of its document:  "The Director-General is authorized to establish  in his immediate office a planning unit ,.....".  The United States delegation evidently had in mind  a unit responsible for supervising the preparation  and implementation of projects.
(57) The Brazilian delegation's idea was quite  different: every project implied preparatory stages  and, even before the projects could be selected,  there had to be a stage of general preparation,  Mr. Maheu reminded the Committee that the text  to be drafted was not intended for press or  radio; it was a legal text and from that  point of view the publicity value of the terms  used mattered little, They only needed to be  clear.  - 830 -
(58) Mr, SEDES (Rapporteur) observed that the  Committee could not submit any amendment to  document 8C/PRG/13, for it was an Executive  Board report. It could, however, submit a draft  resolution,
(59) Mr. HACQUAERT (Belgium) agreed with the  delegate of France and suggested that special  activities be described as particular, As an example  of a project for general activities, he mentioned the  conservation of natural resources, which, in his  opinion, should be undertaken by Unesco in collabo-  ration with FAO. He asked whether the Brazilian  draft amendment had allowed for that possibility.
(60) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  explained that Unesco arranged for preliminary  investigations to be carried out by other interna-  tional organizations, especially non-governmental  ones. Even if Unesco decided, at that stage of its  programme, to devote its attention to the conser-  vation of natural resources, it would only be in the  form of preliminary investigation, prior to action  proper.
(61) He added that the example chosen was a good  illustration of the difference between general,  continuing activities, and activities of local interest,
(62) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) remarked that  his interventions had all been made with the aim of  showing that general and special activities should  be integrated into a single programme. He stressed  the point, made by the Chairman of the Executive  Board, that a central pool of knowledge must exist  first, whether divided into continuous activities or  not, and which could be used later in a series of  special activities.
(63) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) agreed with  the Egyptian delegate's remarks. On the assistance  to international collaboration between specialists  (B of paragraph 23, document 8C/PRG/13) he  suggested that what was actually wanted was the  collaboration of the specialists with Unesco.
(64) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  thought the word collaboration was too strong,  since it covered contracts, which were exclusively  special activities.
(65) The CHAIRMAN offered to prepare a draft,  with the assistance of the Rapporteur and the  Secretariat, for discussion the following morning.
(66) Agreed,  Special Activities
(67) There was already a proposal on this subject  submitted by the French delegate.
(68) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) said that the charac-  teristics given in paragraph 4 of document
8C/DIV/122 did not apply to special activities as a  whole, but only to major projects within them.  The United States definition of aid to Member States  was excellent, as those might have long-range   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VI-31  programmes of their own with different budgets and  time schedules, His objection to the Executive  Board's definition was that special activities had to  provide a solution of the problems of Member States.  Special activities, Mr. Junankar concluded, should  be divided into major projects and aid to Member  States.
(69) The CHAIRMAN proposed the following alter-  ations in the United States text, special activities:  line 2, to run: "the solution of specific problems of  Member States, and are made up of minor and major  projects ..." etc.
(70) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) was against the trend  towards multiplying special activities by limiting  their geographiral scope. Why should a special  activity concern orly one Member State, or at most  a small group? Education for living in a world  community, for instance, could be regarded as a  special activity in so far as it was a special project  inthe wider field of educationfor international under-  standing. It was obvious that a subject likely to  interest all Member States could be dealt with in a  strictly limited way and therefore not be included  under general activities.
(71) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) proposed the  division according to certain themes, rather than  general and special activities.
(72) Mr. LEE (United States of America) agreed  with the French delegate that the meeting was  becoming unnecessarily involved in a too detailed  examination of the source of ideas or of geographical  limitations. It would be better to consider a project  as having various forms of limitation. A special  project might have a wide scope but it might be the  limited application of a special type of effort,
(73) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) drew  the Committee's attention to the desirability of  making a clear distinction between projects initiated  by Unesco and those undertaken at the request of  Member States. Unesco projects were focused as  time went on on a few subjects. Aid to Member  States, on the contrary, was designed to become  increasingly diversified.
(74) Education for living in a world community,  referred to by the French delegate, was not a project  or activity which yielded practical results. The  same might be said of many similar activities: they  were studies or propaganda campaigns of a general  and permanent kind classifiable as general activities.  The question of special activities arose when action  was directed to specific and concrete ends.
(75) The CHAIRMAN, summing up, said there  were two points to be included, his own proposal to  include the words Member States, and the subdivision  of projects initiated by Unesco or by the direct  - 838 -     request of Member States into minor and major ones.  He suggested that the Rapporteur should prepare  another text on the subject for the next morning's  discussion, and asked for further comments.
(76) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) queried the  phrase "the solution of specific problems".  Problems had to be stated before they could be  solved.
(77) The CHAIRMAN proposed to replace the word  solution by the word tackling,
(78) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) proposed the  following phrase: ''Special activities are those  whici: are designed to meet the needs of a Member  Staie or group of Member States and are concerned  with specific problems”.
(79) Mr. LEE (United States of America) insisted  on the word solution because the whole idea behind  that definition was one of action.
(80) The CHAIRMAN then suggested the word used  by Mr. Lee, action towards.
(81) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive  Board) asked why the definition given in paragraph
37 of the Executive Board document could not be  used.
(82) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) replied that  that omitted the point made by the Indian delegate,  with regard to the needs of Member States,
(83) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) endorsed that remark.  The whole of the remodelling was aimed at meeting  the needs of Member States, which were not always  in the form of problems. Decentralization, for  instance, had been studied by a working party to  meet the needs of Member States.
(84) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) proposed  another phrase: ''Special activities are those which  are designed to meet the specific needs of a Member  State or group of Member States. They consist of  problems, each of which is characterized by" etc.  A special need, he said, was a problem,
(85) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive  Board) pointed out that the Board had taken seven  paragraphs to define special activities. It had  brought out the needs of Member States in separate  paragraphs.
(86) The CHAIRMAN considered that the United  Kingdom proposal was a fairly comprehensive one,  and proposed to produce a further text for  discussion the next morning.  The meeting rose at 5.35 p.m.