16 November 1954 at 10.30 a.m.  President: Mr. ZAVALA MUNIZ (Uruguay)  CONTENTS  Appointment of Chairman of Headquarters Committee and his  replacement as Vice-President of the Conference .. .. . 97  Discussion of the Director-General's Report (continued):  Speeches by the delegates of Ecuador, Belgium, Hungary,  Spain, India, Netherlands,  APPOINTMENT OF CHAIRMAN OF HEADQUARTERS COMMIT-  TEE AND HIS REPLACEMENT AS VICE-PRESIDENT OF THE  CONFERENCE
(1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I have to inform delegates that it is not going to be  possible to conclude the discussion of the Director-  General's Report today; there are still 30 speakers  on tne paper, so we shall have to devote another meet-  ing to this item. Even so the General Committee  asks delegates to keep strictly to the time-limit for  speeches and so enable us to bring the debate to a  conclusion,
(2) I call on the Chairman of the Nominations Com-  mittee to present the report he was asked to produce  by the plenary meeting.
(3) Mr. KABIR (India) (Chairman of the Nominations  Committee): Mr. President and fellow delegates, as  the delegation of Venezuela is not present, there is a  vacancy for the post of Chairman of the Headquarters  Committee. On the suggestion of the Nominations  Committee, the Headquarters Committee elected yes-  terday the delegate of Brazil, who will act as Chair-  man of the Headquarters Committee for the duration  of this Conference. The delegate of Brazil accord-  ingly resigned from his office of Vice-President of  the General Conference and the Nominations Comit-  tee suggests for your consideration the election of the  delegate of Chile as one of the Vice-Presidents of the  Generai Conference in place of the delegate of Brazil  {Applause.)
(4) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spa-  nish): In view of the obvious sense of  the Conf .ence, the Chair deems the de-  legate of Brazil to have been elected to the  Headquarters Committee and the delegate of  Chile to the Vice-Presidency of the Ge-  neral Conference by acclamation.  - 97 -     United States of America,  Denmark, Guatemala, Yugoslavia. . . 100 +. 97  DISCUSSION OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL'S REPORT  (continued)
(5) 1 now cal! on the delegate of Ecuador.
(6) Mr. MARTINEZ COBO (Ecuador) (Translation  from the Spanish): Mr. President, ladies and gentle-  men, in this world of unleashed passinns, apparently  dominated by a mystique or violence and a gospel of  hate, where selfish forces seek to endanger the lofty  moral values which ennoble the soul and are the true  essence of human personality, where the possibilities  of scientific progress - for good or perhaps fcrevil -  wrack us with anxiety, this summons to men oï cul-  ture to meet in Uruguay, this noble country which is  an ornament and a source of pride to our continent, to  talk o'er matters and achieve better mutual compre-  hension and to feel their common brotherhood in ihe  quest for truth or the solution of common problems ,1s  of extraordinary significance.
(7) Situated on the earth's equator, my country of  plains and mountains, continually battling with geo-  graphy to exploit its naturai resources, is an impas-  sioned devotee of culture and of freedom. It elects  to office its finest thinkers; it reveres its writers  and artists; it sets aside great sums to support a  House of Culture - that institution so well known  throughout the American continent - and for years  past it has lived its life in an atmosphere of unres-  tricted freedom, opening its frontiers to all ideas and  all peoples with no discrimination, political, racial  or religious.
(8) For that reason, because we have dedicated our  lives to peace and culture and because nothing and no-  body can deflect us from that glorious course, we feel  ourselves atone with Unesco; we regard it as the  spiritual nexus of the whole juridical machinery  devised in the post-war period. In our view  peace must be worked for and pursued  patiently in schools and centres of cul-  ture rather thn in the Chancelleries if it   II-7 PLENARY
1s to become an endur ng thing, for we all know that  political understandings secure no more than a pre-  carious balance,
(9) Reading the Repcrts of the Director-General and  the Executive Board, we have rejoiced to observe the  gradual headway made by Unesco as it assembles the  diverse and potent forces of our times. Adistinguish-  ed English thinker, Huxley, first erected a fine juri-  dical framework; next an eminent Mexican, Jaime  Torres Bodet, brought dedica.ed vision and today, as  a sign of our age's co-operation, an element of friend-  liness and human warmth 1s injected by one of our own  continent's educators, Dr. Luther Evans, a man of  action and achievement.
(10) The international bodies working with govern-  ments for the be .ter exploitation of the natural resources  of their countr.es are many; only one 1s concerned  with the greatest capital asset any country can  have, its human capital. Hence the urgent need for  Unesco, without neglecting its lofty charge as the vi-  gilant guardi in of unending intellectual progress and  of the universal heritage of culture, to keep its feet  planted firmly on the ground and continue as an Or-  ganization soundly administered, ever preoccupied  with the problem of man, the synthesis of all creation
(11) We have viewed with approval Dr, Evans' visits  to various Member States: personal contact willhave  enabled him to acquaint himself with those countries’  cultural reeds. We unreservedly applaud his concern  that Unesco's already inadequate resources should not  be reduc:d and we feel that the Organization should be  strengthèned by financial ‘'d from all countries accord-  ing to their abilities, considering that this can be the  most constructive of all investments; for cultivating  the mirds of this generation and of the generations to  come rnay well show us the sure path to peace and  human brotherhood.  {12) Because we believe that Unesco should be world  wide, we have welcomed the admission here, with the  unanimous approval of our Conference, of countries  not as yet fully self-governing.
(13) We have been glad to see the tightening of Unes-  co's relations with the United Nations and the other  Specialized Agencies. In the Economic and Social  Council this country warmly defends the policy of con  certed action, of closer cc-operation between all the  agencies of the United Nations; in this working to-  gether lies our hope of achieving efficiency and co-  ordination of effort.
(14) We believe that Unes.o's rssential task should  be to co-operate with governments in the noble work  of shaping men. In his last message to our Congress,  the President of my country, himself a distinguished  university teacher, said: "The basic concern of the  State should be the expansion of culture tn towns and  in the countryside, which means deepening the per-  sonality, heightening the awareness and increasing  the mental powers, moral sense and working capacity  of every individual".
(15) As long as the possibility of attending school is  not open to every individual, as long as there remain  some who cannot even write the name of their own mo-  ther or their own country and who have never been gi-  ven the rudiments of all-round education, the most  grievous of the problems afflicting half the human  race will remain unsolved. We therefore support  enthusiastically the proposal of the delegation    MEETINGS  of Uruguay for a  free education.
(16) In the last few years we ourselves have accom -  plished a gigantic effort to bring the alphabet to thou-  sands. In the most isolated and inhospitable spots in  our mountain lands or backwoods we have built small  schools and left a teacher to train the children to  think more of their communities than of themselves,  Hundreds of schools have been built with every educa-  tional facility, a:ry and sunny, so that our children  can be educated in cheerful and healthy surroundings.  We have : a1sed the status of the schoolmaster, improw  ing his situation in every respect and providing him  with proper ‘raining for the prosecution of his great  calling.
(17) Today, we are getting ready to explore the divers  paths of fundamental education. We are glad to ob-  serve how tre regional centres, particularly that at  Patzcuaro, are training teachers for cornmunity edu-  cation. We should like to see others added to those  which already exist. My country deems it a privilege  to offer Unesco every possible facility to enable it to  include work in fundamental education, tn a centre  which could perhaps be opened in Ecuador, 1n the com  bined project for the rehabilitation of the Indian to be  undertaken in the Andes area by a number of Speciali-  zed Agencies.
(18) As the journalists in Ecuador have tne best means  of mass communication at their disposal and as it 1s  their task to bring culture and truth to the minds ofall,  it 1s to them that we have entrusted the campaign agair  st adult illiteracy, providing them with the necessary  resources for the execution of their task. The results  have been satisfactory and the index of illiteracy has  fallen markedly, It would be a great satisfaction to  us to have Unesco participate 1n tnis campaign.
(19) As regards the Expanded Technical Assistance  Programme, my country has observed with approval  the steps taken for greater correlation of the ordinary  programme and this expanded programme. In the  Economic and Social Council, Ecuador has argued that  the planning of technical assistance should be the com-  mitment of the governments concerned. We judge  that technical assistance is the most practical and ef-  fective action so far launched by the international agen  cles and we therefore feel that all countries, large and  small, are under a moral obligation to co-operate init  Ecuador earnestly trusts that national contributions  for 1955 will be greater and that, in general, the ex-  panded programme will acquire the features of pro-  gressive evolution and continuity required to make it  more nearly commensurate with the magnitude of the  task ahead. Our understanding is that the reduction  in the numbers of experts and of {fellowships over the  last two years has been the result of financial limita-  ‘ons, This is a situation which we must make a joint  effort to remedy.
(20) We are also anxious that, in the selection of the  Organization's officials and technicians, due attention  be given to geographical distribution and that all the  countries in the world be enabled to arrange for their  finest intellectual representatives to collaborate in  achieving the lofty objectives of Unesco. We suggest  to those in charge in Unesco that, in the selection of  experts, consideration be given to the degree of af-  finity which should obtain between the expert and the  human milieu in which he is to work and we have noted  campaign for compulsory   PLENARY  with satisfaction the unreserved praise bestowed by  the Assistant Director-General of Unesco on the work  of the Latin American technicians working in this con  tinent.
(21) We share the desire of other delegations that  Unesco's programme shall concentrate on a few es-  sential items, It is better to do little and do it well  than try to do much and do it sketchily.
(22) We cherish the hope that the Ecuadorean motion  for the adoption of Spanish as a working language of  the Executive Board, which is supported by the Board  itself, may be approved by this General Conference.  The tongue in which the discovery of a new continent  was universally proclaimed and in which Don Quixote  was given to ihe world deserves that honour - the  more so in that Spanish America, whose influence in  the international order is beneficent, nourishes no  ambitions to anyone's despite and aspires only toes-  tablish more firmly its own well-being and to play its  part in raising the standard of life throughout the  world.
(23) Montevideo 1s holy ground for the men of Am-  erica. Hither we come ever and again as pilgrims of  culture to strengthen our souls with the teaching of  one of the Olympians of American thought - Rodé. To-  day we come here to declare from this rostrum -  where the ideas and aspirations of z11 the peoples of  the earth can be proclaimed in freedom ard democra-  cy, Ecuador's belief that these cr usades of culture  are the only means whereby true International soh-  darity can be established on unshakable foundations,  and to pledge our faith in the future of Unesco.
(24) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call on the delegate of Belgium.
(25) Baron van der STRATEN WAILLET (Belgium)  (Translation fron. the French): As my first words in  this debate may ! re-echo the remarks of Mr. Andres  Martinez Trueba, President of the National Council  of Government of Uruguay, In his address of welcome  to us, We have been touched by the singular warmth  of our reception by the Government and people of Uru  guay, struck by their deep interest in all the things of  the mind and deeply moved by the lovely Canticle of  Hope sung by the young people of your schools. May  that Canticle, sung first at Brussels two years ago,  drown the war scngs and start the great dance of  peace in which the peoples of all the world will join  hands together.
(26) The Director-General's Report will certainly  impress any unprejudiced person who takes the trou-  ble to read it, and I want to pay tribute to the con-  scientiousness and intelligence of its author, who has  been so ably seconded by the staff of the Secretariat.
(27) The Belgian delegation is glad to note the pro-  gress made in concentrating activities and improving  methods, since it attaches the utmost importance to  continued efforts to avoid dispersion of energy and  make the best use of resources.
(28) It is particularly gratified by the Director-  General's tribute of thanks to the Executive Board for  the help rendered and the invaluable counsel given.  This tribute deserves emphasis at the very moment  when the Commissions are starting to study a num-  ber of proposals for drastic changes in the Board's  membership. In this connexion,Belgium attaches the    MEETINGS u-17  utmost importance to full respect for the basic prin-  ciple enshrined in Article V of the Constitution which  stipulates that the members of the Board shall exer-  cise the powers delegated to them by the General Coir  ference on behalf of the Confercnce as a whole and not  as representatives of their respective governments,  What this implies is that, just like the General Con-  ference, of which it is an emanation, the Board re-  presents primarily the people .n every country who  are professionally concerned with education, science  and culture, as well as the institutions set up on their  initiative and the National Commissions they have  helped to establish.
(28) Now these champions of the mind, more than  other men, are worried about the danger of which Dr.  Radhakrishnan warned us sc eloquently in his opening  speech. I hope I do not misrepresent his views In  saying that, briefly, he maintains that even democra-  tic governments are becoming daily more centralist,  more interfering, more authoritarian and more intru-  sive in their control of thought and opinion, It 1s from  fear of this danger that the Belgium delegation attach-  es such great importance to the members of the  Executive Board being independent,
(30) In Part IV of the Report, Chapters Il and III en-  grossed our attention most.
(31) We particularly appreciate what has been done in  the sphere of international scientific co-operation and  of international co-operation between social scientists,
(32) We must, however, insist once more on the ab-  solute necessity of action by Unesco continuing to be  supplementary to national action, Article I of the  Constitution names among the chief purposes and func  tions of Unesco the promotion of collaboration among  the nations and lays it down that Unesco shall colla-  borate, provide an impulse, and maintain, increase  and diffuse knowledge, without putting itself in the  place of national governments. Article XI, on rela-  tions with governmental! and non-governmental orga-  nizations and institutions, 1s drafted on similar lines.
(33) Any attempt to do direct what States and private  organizations are doing just as well, runs counter to  Unesco's mission and alienates the sympathies and  cuts off the aid of which Unesco stands most in need.
(34) We hope it will be possible for Unesco to continue  its financial help to the non-governmental institutions  and organizations doing 1ts work and theirs in such a  variety of fields and that it will continue to encovrage  the foundation of organizations which, like those ‘nat  already owe their existence !o it, will play their part  in carrying out its programme.
(35) With no less interest we have perused the chap-  ters on such forms of practical help as fundamental  and adult education, assistance in general education  and the dissemination of science and culture and last-  ly, the Expanded Technical Assistance Programme.  The progress achieved in these various spheres shows  that Unesco 1s fully conscious of the crying urgency of  spreading knowledge in a world where millions of men  are still sunk in 1gnoranc.e,
(33) The interest Belgium attaches to this practical  work 1s eloquently proved by the report of the Belgian  National Commission on the vast effort put forth in  this domain in Belgiurn and the Belgian Congo.
(37) To conclude my remarks on the Reports of the  Director-General ard the Executive Board, my dele-  gation wishes to record its satisfaction with the  - 99 -
1-7 PLENARY  progress made and to recall that the success of the  work undertaker depends not only on observance of  the principles to which I earlier drew attention but,  just as much, on the maintenance of a correct balance  between the objectives concerned with research and  those concerned with the dissemination of knowledge.  To spread the life-giving waters of science, éduca-  tion and culturc n.ore abundantly through the . hannels  of technical assistance, we must at the same time in-  crease the flow from the source, the work of scien-  tists, educators and artists. The two onjectives are  but parts of a single whole and inflation is no less  harmful in the sphere of knowledge than ‘n that of cur-  rencies. May Unesco never yield to the temptation  to dissipate its "gold reserve" for, if it does, sooner  or later the result will be a debasement of the values  of the mind.
(38) The PRESIDENT (Translation frc.a the Spanish):
1 call on the delegate of Hungary.
(39) Mrs. JOBORU (Hungary): Mr. President, jel -  low delegates, may ! first of all be permitted to ex -  tend on behaif of the Hungarian delegation our sincere  greetings to Uruguay and her beautiful capital and ex-  press our gratitude for the magnificent snirit of hos-  pitality which, manifested on our arrival, has been  attending us ever since, We are very glad indeed that  through Uresco we have the privilege of getting ac-  quainted with Uruguay, whose people share with us  many happy pursuits and noble endeavours.
(40) The Hungarian Government, animated by the  nprincipie of peaceful coexistence and collaboration of  countries with different systems of government, at-  tributes great importance to the development of cul-  tural contacts between the nations. We are sure that  nations that have imbibed each other's culture find it  easier to foster rnutual understanding and peaceful  coexistence in all matters,
(41) The Hungarian Goverrment has amply dernon-  strated the importance 1t attaches to the strengthen-  ing of international cultural relations, to the meetings  and international conferences of representatives of  science, education, literature and arts, In the first  ten months of this year alone, we took part in 60  scientific conferences, among them the Paris-Nice  Botanical Congress and the meeting of the World  Power Conference in Brazil,
(42) Unesco, as an intergovernmental body, has an  especially important part to play in organizing closer  co-operation among nations and in encouraging the  forging of cultural links in the intere:t of peaceful co-  existence. The Hungarian Government is fully aware  of this commitment. The Minister of Foreign Affairs  of the Hungarian People's Republic, in June this year,  advised the Director-General of Unesco that the Hun-  garian Government, accepting the invitation of the Ge-  neral Conference, wished to return to active partici-  pation within the Organization, Its decision was  prompted by the hope that in this period of interna-  tional détente Unesco would come closer to its original  objectives as laid down in the Constitution, working  with genuine devotion in the service of peace and  progress. We apyremiate the reference in tne Re-  port of the Director-General to Hungary's step,rank-  ing it among the factors that contribute effectively to  the acl.ievement of Unesco's objectives,    MEETINGS
(43) Hungary was already participzting in the more  important of Unesco's recent conferences. We sent  a delegation to the Hague Conference, resulting in an  International agreement for the protection of cultural  values in war time, which was among others signed by  the representative of the Hungarian Government. We  also took part in the International Educational Confer-  ence in Geneva organized by Unesco and IBE.
(44) We have studied with gieat irterest the materia’  prepared for the present Conferen-e, especially ne  Report of the Director-General, and came tr nis Cor  ference with high expectations, ™.> sport, which  we consider a thorough 27 * « cellent ene, acquaints  us with many aspects of Unesco's achievements and  fields of activity, which meet with the fullest approval  of our Government and people. The fight against il-  literacy, facilities for education in the native language,  extension of primary education, admission of women  to all levels of education in many countries, provis'ons  for adult education, imbuing younr people with the  spirit of international understanding, the internaticnal  discussion of all kinds of scientific and artistic ques-  tions - these are all tasks of the greatest importance.  The facilities of the coupon system, to which we whole-  heartedly adhere, is to our mind, a very suitable me-  dium for the exchange of various cultural products,
(45) An impostant part of the task of the Hungarian  Government is to continue to raise the cultural level  of the people. Education, literature, arts and science  have progressed tremendously in the past eight or  nine years and are about to embark on a still more  promising period. School attendance 1s free and com  pulsory up to the age of 14 and secondary schools and  institutes of higher education, museums, theatres and  concert halls are wide open to all.
(46) In the field of culture, prime importance 1s at-  tached to fostering the spirit of international co-  operation. Inthe schools the pupils, besides studying  extensively the cuiture of their homeland, are made  acquainted with the classics of other nations. (Shakes-  peare, Cervantes and living authors are studied along  with the works of Bach, Mozart, Mussorgski,  Leonardo da Vinci, Velasquez etc.)
(47) In order to appreciate the culture of other na-  tions more directly, students are studying foreign lan-  guages, Russian, French, German, English, Italian  and Latin languages especially.
(48) Our theatres play to packed houses the works of  the great classical authors - Shakespeare, Gogol,  Molière, Schiller, Gorki, Shaw, Lope de Vega - as  well as plays by Turkish, Chinese and French writers.
(49) Publications include the masterpieces of world  literature as well as contemporary works. The books  of such Spanish-American authors as Pablc Neruda,  Revueltas, Jorge Amado, Jorge Icaza are known all  over the country, Books reach their readers even in  the remotest villages through the facilities of the  well-stocked people's libraries. A number of world  classics have been sold in several hundred thousand  copies.
(50) Cinemas are to be found in the smallest places,  showing the best films produced in the Soviet Union,  France, China, Italy and Mexico, and I have spe-  cial pleasure in referring to a film acquired re-  cently from Uruguay (A Thief of Dreams), which  figures in the programme of the largest Budapest  cinema.  - 100 -   PLENARY
(51) Our actors and film directors have attended in-  ternational festivals at Carlsbad, Cannes, Mar “.:  Plata, New Delhi, etc, We have organized art  folklore exhibitions in Paris, Peking, Berlin, Mos:  cow, London, and next year we are planning an exhi-  bition in India, Recently we have had exhibitions in  Budapest of Soviet, Chinese and Bulgarian folk art,  and of French and Italien painting.
(52) We need not dwell upon our international record  in sport, for this aspect has been sedulously cared  for by the press,
(53) Through all these activities, the Hungarian Gov-  ernment has given, I think, clear indication of the  importance it attaches to encouraging international  cultural relaticns, a better understanding among na-  tions and the peaceful coexistence of different social  systems. For this reason we welcome and whole-  heartedly support all Unesco activity which aims at  this end.
(54) We have to place on record, however, that to  our mind the work of Unesco reveals certain impor-  tant defects. We believe that Unesco should utilize,  to a much greater extent, the possibilities at its com-  mand for mutual understanding among the nations, We  think that we may state, without fear of contradiction,  that countar-forces are at work against this better un-  derstanding. There is an armaments race in raany  countries, racial hatred {s being stirred up by veno-  mous propaganda. We hold that Unesco is inaunique  position to establish contacts between nations onmore  normal lines,
(55) The Hungarian delegation wholeheartedly sup-  ports the proposal brought forward by the Indian de-  legation inviting Unesco to make its full contribution  towards securing peaceful coexistence among nations  with different political or social systems, to raise its  vcice in the cause of the peaceful utilization of atomic  energy and to take its stand against racial discrimi-  nation,
(56) We cannot, however, pass over without comment  the bad impression created in our delegation by the  events of the first days of the Conference - the refus-  al to admit the representatives of 600 million Chinese  with their rich cultural heritage and the postponed ad-  mission of Rumania and Bulgaria to Unesco, two good  friends of Hungary, each with a flourishing culture  and marching in the vanguard of progress.
(57) Allow me to express the hope that the work of  Unesco, which has contributed so much towards  strengthening mutual understanding between nations,  shall in the future expand and, through the active par-  ticipation of its Member States, assure the triumph  of a cause so important to all humanity.
(58) In this great endeavour Unesco can always rely  on the active participation of the Hungarian Govern-  ment and people,
(59) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call on the delegate of Spain,
(60) Mr. RUIZ JIMENEZ (Spain) (Translation from  the Spanish): Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen,  this is the first time that Spain has taken part as a  full member in an ordinary General Conference of  the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultur-  al Organization, It was about two years ago that at  another session like this, in Paris, a clearcut raajo: ity    MEE "INGS 11-7  of Member States, followirg the promptings of jus -  tice, admitted my country's right to become a mem-  ber of this body and invited us to place our energies at  the service of the lofty aims enshrined in the  Constitution.
(61) Those same anms have ever ucus the star which  has gu:ded our path through history. Only a fewhours  ago, in this very hall, we of the Spanish delegation  were thrilled by a passage in the virile greeting ad-  dressed by the delegate of Sierra Leone to this august  Conference, In it he paid a glowing tribute to the me-  mory of two of our greatest theologians, Vitoria and  Suarez, who, on the threshold of the modern age,  planted the seed from which has sprung the true law of  natiors, This they did by enunciating the principle  that all men and all peoples are fundamentally equal,  whatever their race or social rank, because theyshare  a common origin and the same immortal destiny, so  that all the nations are bound !ogêther in a great com  munity which is more than the mere sum of them and  links them as it were in a mystical body whose life is  *ne conjoined lives of all its members.
(62) The reason why we appreciate the aptness of the  adhesion to what is finest in our doctrinal tradition  made by the delegate of Sierra Leone 1s that today we  realize we are marching steadily along the selr-same  road; it 1s because we still believe, with those great  thinkers, in the “natural amity" between all peoples  and we feel as irrevocably ours - bone of our bone -  the ambition to work without respite for the establish-  ment of peace in justice. In contrast to the old aphor-  ism "s1 vis pacem para bellum", we of Spain - who  have no fear of war, when there is à need to defend  our libertier or the liberties of other peoples - would  fain proclaim to all the world a nobler and more ur-  gent challenge, "'S1 vis pacem para jus gentium', or  better still, if we truly and honestly want peace, let  us together prepare the way for the rule of those lofty  values of the spirit which are the most potent levers  to uplift the soul of nations and secure for them a  peaceful destiny,
(63) To help towards the triumph of these ideals  throughout the world, one effective way is that opened  up by Unesco. Accordingly, Spain cannot but express  her joy at being now within that brotherhood nor do  other than apply all her energies to co-operating in  Unesco's undertakings. May I take this opportunity  to repeal that my country, prompt to forget offences  when the claim of a higher cause commands or coun-  sels it, but is ever mindful of kindnesses received,  wishes through my intermediary to renew its thanks  to all the nations scattered over the five côntinents,  which on the former occasion honoured us by casting  their votes for our admission, and more particularly  to the peoples of the grcat Arab family with whom we  are linked by many centuries of cultural exchange, a  recurring motif as it were in the tapestry of a chival-  rous and almost legendary past. We wish also spe-  cially to thank the peoples of the vast and close -knit  family of Spanish America where men speak and pray  in Spanish, where love, labour and death reflect the vi-  gorous impulse derived from one and the same stock,  springing up again, as though by a miracle of  the spirit, thousands of miles away on the  eastern confines of the Pacific and on the  rude but kindly soil of the Philippine  Islands.  - 101 -
(64) And while I am speaking of the sister peoples of  Spanish America, it is but simple justice that I - like  other delegates before me - should have a special  word for the member of that vigorous family on whose  fruitful soil we stand today - Uruguay, youthful and  adventurous, wiich offers us the dazzling spectacle of  its wide expanse of sky and sea expressive, as it were,  of a yearning for universality, a country which will  make all of us here realize the nobility of its descent  by offering every delegate to this Conference, regard-  less of politica) ideologies or the whims of circum-  stance, not only the gracious hospitality which is cus-  tomary and appropriate in cultured nations but also  the warm-hearted friendship of peoples of Castilian  stock.
(65) And now that [ have expressed the natural affec-  tion of our hearts to all these nations of our ownblood,  it behoves me to extend a cordial greeting to all the  representatives of the other peoples met together  here. With them - transcending differences of ideo-  logy - we have to share the labours and toils of a  weary road towards those difficult but necessary  goals, the cultural uplift of all sections of society,the  surmounting of misunderstanding, hates and egoisms  and the tightening of the links of understanding and  friendship between all mankind, These are quesls  not unworthy of that wandering knight of La Mancha  whose revolt against all error, all excess, againstall  meanness of spirit and all injustice might well typify  the inner flame of this Organization, which seeks to  bring a little light and harmony to the tortured huma-  nity of our age.
(66) Precisely because we of present-day Spain feel  the glow of that flame in our own hearts, we have en-  gaged ourselves in Unesco's spiritual war, fully con-  scious of our responsibilities. In submitting his Re-  port on the Organization's activities, the Director-  General, whom we also wish to congratulate on the  success and impartiality of his work - asked for a  spirit of pure loyalty to prevail in the Organization. It  was in that spirit that we crossed Unesco's threshold  with the honest aim of giving rather than receiving.  Now we are of the household and in it we will fight at  Unesco's side for the full achievement of its aims.
(67) May 1 for the sake of brevity take it that this  spirit of loyalty and service can be regarded under  three main aspects: firstly, the aspect of our rela-  tions with the Organization as such; secondly, the as-  pect of our dealings with other Member States and  thirdly, the aspect of our fundamental beliefs.
(68) As to our attitude to Unesco itself and to its spe-  cific work, I need only say that Spain, in the very  short interval that has elapsed since she was admit-  ted to this Organization has gone a long way to bring-  ing herself up to date in the matter of administrative  organization and in this respect recover all the time  lost against her will.
(69, The most eminent figures in science, education  and cuiture - the historian Don Ramon Menéndez y  Pidal, Professor Gregorio Marañ6n, Don Julio Pala-  cios, Don Julio Rey Pastor and Don José Maria Otero,  famous in research and teaching, Father Ramfrez,the  great theologian, and other men of eminence have  agreed to join our National Commission for co-opera-  tion with Unesco; which, thus reinforced, completed  a substantial volume of work. In the light of its gui-  dance and with the effective co-operation of the    MEETINGS  Directors and the members of the Secretariat,the Exe-  cutive Committee of the National Commission under  the chairmanship of Dr. Lain Entralgo, Rector of the  University of Madrid, has contrived in a few months’  time to arouse an interest in Unesco's aims among  the Spanish public and set the requisite services in  motion, In this first year even the specialized work-  ing parties for the several sections of Unesco's pru-  gramme have gone into action: exhibitions have been  arranged with material fom Unesco; its publications  have been widely distributed; and on Human Rights  Day lectures and ceremonies were held in all cultural  and teaching centres, for which we drew on the rich  treasure of Spanish philosophical, legal and general  literature, classical and modern; for Spanish thoughi  has ever been hostile to the slightest suggestionof hu-  man servitude and sees man - as it ever has - as the  focus of social and political life in virtue of his being  the vehicle of eternal values and the possessor of a soul  free to choose damnation or salvation,
(70) The Spanish National Commission has likewise  managed to contribute effectively towards the most  characteristic of Unesco's immediate and material  objectives, for which purpose a large increase is be-  ing made in the number of fellowships and scholarships  open to foreign teachers and stuents in Spain and to  Spaniards abroad - of the latter a number were spe-  cially commissioned to study questions falling within  Unesco's particular province at its headquarters and  regional offices. There has also been a sharp rise in  the number of visits by members of our National Com  mission Secretariat to Unesco meetings and of highly  esteemed visitors from Unesco to Spain, such as Dr,  Evans, whose keen understanding and sound decisions  deeply impressed us,
(71) Further, Spain has taken steps to speed up her  ratification of all the conventions promoted by Unesco,  more particularly the Universal Copyright Convention  and the Agreement on the free circulation of education-  al, scieatific and cultural materials; and our publish-  ing facilities have been put at Unesco's disposal for  the easier and more economical production of the Spa-  nish versions of the Organization's official publica-  tions, a step which should have the further effect of  enabling us to make fuller use of the book coupon sys-  tem as desired ny our universities, academ'es and  senior cultural institutions.
(72) The experience of the first months of our active  membership and a careful and constructive perusal of  the future programme and Eudget, the general lines of  which we regard as satisfactory in principle, have led  us to certain conclusions which we will submit to the  Commissions and Committees of this General Confer-  ence. For the time being I shall merely indicate in  broad outline that our own aspirations and objectives  are the following-
(73) First, we want the Organization's energies com  centrated on a limited number of tasks, graded ac-  cording to importance and urgency, and all possible  simplification of the administrative machinery, not  merely to reduce the proportion of common service  costs but also to speed up the handling of business ar !  reduce to the simplest possible form the complex sys-  «em of questionnaires and consultations which pour  down on Member States. Consideration should be given  to the problem of how Member States could be gi-  ven greater assistance for their National Commissions,  - 102 -   PLENARY  so that the latter could organize more efficiently ser-  vices of their own. This would undoubtedly relieve  headquarters of some of the routine work and enable  National Commissions to take a more effective part  in the work of the Organization. Unesco's future is  largely bound up with the degree of interest taken in  its activities by public Opinion in the Member States,  and there is no better way of achieving this than by  having National Commissions, with increased resour-  ces and prestige, play an effective part in the practi-  cal execution of the directives issued by the central  authorities of the Grganization,
(74) Secondly - and still with the same object of in-  creasing efficiency - the Spanish delegation wishes to  indicate its support of the tendency already apparent  among other delegations to follow a policy of cautious  redeployment, a logical delegation of functions to  groupz of countries linked by language and cultural af-  fimty. Unesco cannot renounce is quality of an or-  ganization for all the peoples, wherever they dwell,  whatever their language and whatever their type of  culture, but it will only succeed in drawing its mem-  hers together more effectively if, in the first place it  increases co-operation, mutual understarding and ex-  changes of educational information among those fami-  lies of nations between which there already exist na-  wral affimities either through a common language or  through the identity of the fundamental beliefs which  shape their culiural personality.
(75) The Director-General of Unesco, with the assis-  tance of a Deputy or Assistant Director totake charge of  each of the main linguistic and cultural sectors ,would  be able to maintain the universality of Unesco and at  the same time by working through decentrai:zed or-  gans to secure greater concentration of effort in anat-  mosphere of greater institutional and psychological  homogeneity.
(76) My third point is closely linked with what | bave  just said and involves the principles of 1air shares and  of recognition of the inherent equality of all Member  States: it 1s important that the number of nationalities  represented both in the senior posts and the admiris-  trative personnel of Unasco shouls be related to the  number of countries belonging to the Organization,  This prog rtional redistribution cf policy-making and  administrative posts and the obsr : sance of norms  which will ensure that complete -.npartiality andloy-  alty prevail among all members of Unesco staff will  create the atmosphere of mutual confidence between  all Member States necessary for the most effective  achievement of Unesco's basic aims.
(77) So much for our views, in brief outline, about  the structure of the Organization. 1 should now like  to say a few words about our relations with the other  countries which are our fellow members in Unesco  and more particularly about the concreie achievements  in teaching and scientific research which Spain can  proffer for their consideration.
(78) I am not proposirg here to cite statistics to ii-  lustrate the greatly increased efforts made inSpain,  both by the population and by the State, for the pro-  motion of culture. I could have done this by compar  ing the figures of the budget of the Ministry of Eu za  tion, which were 345 million pesetas in 1935 and am-  cunt to 2,400 million pesetas in 1954, an enormous in  crease even if allowance is made for the difference in  the purchasing power of ihe peseta. Or again Icould    MEETINGS a-7  have taken the falling curve of illiteracy, which went  down from about 26% in 1930 to 14.24% in 1950, with an  appreciable further reduction in the last four years as  the result of a strictly enforced scheme of adult edu-  cation and a large-scale programme for building mo-  dern schools with all the requisite amenities and  educational facilities.Or again I could have instanced  the efforts made to modernize our universities, insti-  tutes and technical schools, the increase in the num-  ber of libraries, etc.
(79) However, we prerer to have the visitors whoho-  nour us with their presence in Spain note these facts  for themselves, More than 2 million foreigners have  crossed our frontiers and travelled all over our coun  try since 1 January last. They included a large num-  ber of scientists attending international congresses of  every type. Spain has made a special point in the  last ten years of opening her doors to intellectuals,  scientists and teachers from all kinds of countries,  without distinction of race or creed, wishing to visit  us or give us valuable lessons in the field of scientific  or technical research or new methods of vocational  and pedagogic training, Let them testify to what they  have seen, We are also glad to extend similar invi-  tations to all the distinguished delegates here present  who decide on returning home to visit us, that they  may without any interference, and in full knowledge of  the facts, judge for themselves the real extent of the  effort in the sphere of education, science and culture  «hich 1s being made in Spain today.
(80) The same spirit of loyalty moves us to the view  that Unesco should be broad-minded in accepting the  co-operation of other peoples. Like the founder of  the Uruguayan nation, that great gentleman Jesé Arti-  gas, we should proclaim that we regard as our ene-  mies only those who are the enemies of the communi-  ty's well-being. Let us set no bounds to co-operation  with other States save the condition that they respect  our independence and our inalienable spiritual convic-  tions.
(81) This could be the appropriate lime, before con-  cluding my remarks, to voice Spain's earnest hope  that the time may not be far off when certain nations  not now members of Unesco will be able and eager to  join, as, for instance, the only Spanish-American  nation not yet a member, Paraguay, or Portugal and  Ireland in Europe, whose great services to universal  culture would make them excellent and distinguished  partners iu this Organization.
(82) My last general remark would be to say that,  while a "spirit of loyalty" should prevail within Unes-  co - ir the Organization itself and in its member coun  tries individually - there must also be a loyal belief  that the fundamental convictions of the several groups  of peoples making up the Organization will be respec-  ted. This should be reflected more particularly by  the way in which we lay stress on one or other of the  Organization's activities,
(83) I would like simply to make special mention of  the three following points: firstly, the social uplift of  the classes in all countries which are economically  most under -privileged. If we really wish for peace,  we must deliver the millions still living in oppressive  darkness from serfdom and ignorance. Our own  Saavedra Fajardo has said that there are some people  who fear virtues in men because it makes them kings  and prefer vice because it makes them slaves. Our  - 103 -   II-7 PLENARY  hope 1s that Unesco may contribute to the growth of a  genuine spiritual noblesse among all peoples by the er-  thronement of virtue in their minds and hearts.
(84) Secondly, we look for a strengthening of the natural  links between the peoples, and nothing 1s better calcula-  ted io achieve that purpose than mutual acquainianceship  between intellectuals. We are therefore glad to see that  ra the proposed programme and budget there is an in-  crease in the total appropriations for feilowships,  scholarships andexchanges of books and publications.
(85) Lastly, we should like Unesco to contribute even  mote towards the moral and spiritual training of the  peoples, While naturally respecting the consciences  of others, we must harness the spiritual energies of  all our peoples for the ends of peace and justice for  which Unesco was created, The people in whose  name | speak is one which hold God to be the author  and the supreme guarantor of human freedom and  free will, which believes in the primacy of spiritover  matter, which believes that service for the well-being  of the community can smooth man's path to kis im-  mortal destiny. And we are cc: nfident that Unesco  will play its part in seeing that the requisite condi-  tions obtain which will enable this moral training to  be given to men all over the world, more particularly  in those countries where there are traditionally large  communities loyal to these supreme beliefs,
(86) If we hold firmly to this policy of loyal co-opera-  tion between us; if we promote, within this Organiza-  tion, the improvement of its organs, and above all, if  we acquire the inner conviction that it is in our hearts  and minds that we must build peace between the peo-  ples, we shall not fail of victory. In the same Spa-  nish classic that I quoted earlier there is a passage  to the effect that battles fought with the sword alone  are doubtful but that victory is certain in those fought  with the head. Let us win the battle of peace with the  weapons of our minds, for it is a war against error,  ignorance and incomprehension. For this war of  peace which will bring light to the mind, solace tothe  heart and justice to all peoples inside and outside  YYnesco we, the people of Spain, stand armed and  ready.
(87) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call on the delegate of India.
(86) Mr. KABIR (India): Mr. President and fellow  delegates, I have great pleasure in adding the voice  of India to the felicitations offered to the Oriental Re-  public of Uruguay on the generous hospitality with  which this country, small in population but great in  beart, has welcomed delegates from all corners of  the globe to this eighth General Conference of Unesco,  We were particularly happy to learn from you, Mr.  President, that Uruguay imposes no barriers to  thought and extends an equally warm welcome to men  and women of all races, colours and creeds. Tolera-  tion of differences and charity towards all have also  been characteristic of the country to which I have the  honour to belong, and we are particularly happr that  this session - when we have for the first time members  representing the rival world outlooks which claim the  allegiance of modern man - meets in the friendly and to-  lerant atmosphere of this beautiful land.
(88) I would also like to congratulate Dr. Evans on  his first Report as Director-General of Unesco. I    MEETINGS  agree with the delegate who said that Unes..o 1S notthe  Ministry of Education of a super-State, bu. we may  rightly claim that it should be the keeper of the enlight-  ened conscience of the world. The work of education,  science and culture must no doubt be carried out by the  Member States themselves, but Unesco should offer  them the opportunity of co-operation and collaboration  in a task which concerns each as much as it concerns  all. It must be one of the chief aims of Unesco to  make all members realize that each is responsible to  and for the rest, that human welfare 1s an indissoluble  whole and that no State, however powerful or prosper-  ous, can maintain its achievements unless it shares  them with the rest of the world.
(80) I am glad to find that the Director-General and  the Executive Board have taken note of the friendly  suggestions from Member States and are taking steps  to concentrate and simplify the programme of Unesco,  The less fortunate areas of the world want education  for the masses, want technical assistance, and think  you will all agree that these iwo should be first prion-  ties in the programme, It is India's desire that Unes-  co should direct all its energy to the task of eradicating  illiteracy from among half the population of mankind.  These are points which India has pressed time and  again, and we are happy to find that Unesco proposes  to launch a world-wide campaign of publicity for anIn-  ternational Educational Development Fund. Such a  reorientation of its programme will win for Unesco  the support of intellectuals as well as of the riasses in  all countries,
(91) Talking of the need for concentration and simpli-  fication, may I suggest that the process start with the  documentation provided us by the Secretariat? [am  sure all delegates are duly impressed by the quality  as well as the quantity of the papers that come to us.  but may not their purpose be defeated by their very  volume? When papers are too many and the time is  all too brief, they may not be read. Alsv, [have at  mes wondered if all this volume of paper is really  necessary. Iam reminded of a story, so true in spi-  rit, if not in fact, that I cannot resist the temptation  of repeating it, It is said that President Roosevelt,  when asked to make a five-minute speech, declinedon  the ground that it would take too long to prepare Asked  again hov then he could find time to prepare addresses  running t: wo hours or more, the President 1s repor-  ted to have id that he was ready to deliver a two-  hour speec:. n any subjec. right away.
(92) I also warinly support the proposal of the Direc-  tor-General that the programme of Unesco shall con-  form more and more to the views of Member States,  The Chairman of the Executive Board also referred to  the need for closer consultation with National Commis-  sions and governments, I earnestly hope that this  will be done on an increasing scale, for, in the past,  this salutary principle has not always been observed.  To take only one example. In the draft programme  before us, there is a proposal to close down or reduce  the scale of the Science Co-operation Office at New  Delhi and to transfer some of its functions elsewhere,  May 1 ask if there was any previous consultation with  the National Commission or the Government concern-  ed? At the first conference of the permanent Indian  National Coramission, fraternal delegates from neigh-  bouring countries expressed the wish that this office  might develop into a centre to provide enlarged services  - 104 -   PLENARY  to all the countries of this region. 1 hope that there  will be no repetition of such a lapse, and | am happy  to say that, as a result of our discussions with the Na-  tionai Commission and the Government of Indonesia,  we have, with their support, given notice of a resolu-  tion for the establishment of a Nucleus Office which  may provide fuller and more satisfactory service to  ali the countries of South East Asia. I will not dis-  cuss this point in further detail, as my distinguished  colleague and friend, Dr. Mudaliar, will be placing a  resolution on this subject before the Conference,
(93) I would here like to dwell for a moment on a  point which is at times not fully appreciated. We talk  of developed and undeveloped countries and some-  times think of the relation betweenthem as a one-way  traffic, in which the so-called developed coun-  tries are the donors and the so-called undeveloped  countries the recipients. Can we, however,be sure  that the categories apply generally? Should we not  confine them to a specific aspect of human de elop-  ment? There is no question that, in industrial pro-  gress, in the application of science to crafts, and in  the standard of material civilization, countries of  Europe and America are far more advanced than  those of Asia and Africa, but can it be said with equal  confidence that they are more developed spiritually  and morally? Simplicity, contentment and goodwill  are values which do not necessarily accompany mater-  ial pregress. Happiness is an elusive thing, but can  one equate it with comfort and luxury? Can we even  be sure that counwu :°s and peoples which use the gad-  gets of science are necessarily more scientific in  their attitude and outlook?
(94) I would not be misunderstood. We are entirely  in favour of using science for raising the standard of  life of the people. Material comforts are necessary  to liberate the spirit from over-much concern with  material things, That is why India and other coun-  tries of the East are today engaged in a gigantic ef-  fort to reconstruct the economic bases of life,to make  education universal and free, and to transform our  existing economy of poverty and want into an economy  of wealth and plenty. Simultaneously, we are striv-  ing to preserve the spiritual values which we consider  to be man's most cherished heritage and are ready  and indeed anxious to share them with all. We there-  fore feel that Unesco should in its programme place a  special emphasis on the exchange of the different gifts  which different pecples have to oifer, While some  regions, and I am thinking primarily of Asiaand Af-  rica, can benefit by the techniques and the crafts, the  spirit of enquiry and the spirit of adventure of others,  these others, and I am thinking primarily of Europe  and America, can with equal profit imbibe some of the  spiritual values developed in other regions of the  world. Unesco's programme of translation of the  classics of different lands is a welcome step in this  direction.
(85) It is because of our recognition of the need for  greater co-operation and exchange between peoples  and countries that we wish to place before this Con-  ference two related resolutions on universality of  membership and decentralization of Unesco's pro-  grammes, We are in favour of making the Organi-  zation truly global, for we believe that the modern  world, knit into one compact unit by science and tech-  nology, must be united in thought and spirit if it is to    MEETINGS 11-7  survive. Further, we believe that each region has  something of value to contribute to the rest. Some  people may be lacking in material goods, some in in-  dividual liberty and personal freedom, others in social  security and still others in a sense of human brother-  hood, but the only way of making good the deficiency  of each is to bring it into contact with another which  may be rica in a particular element while lacking some  other element of equal value. In this way alone can  each gain by learning from others for our common hu  man good. We are therefore sorry that this Confer -  ence did not extend a warm and cordial welcome to  Bulgaria and Rumania, which sought to join the bro-  therhood of Unesco. We would go further and say  that Unesco should open its doors to any country which  wants to come regardless of its political or economic  attitudes. We are sorrier still that the Executive  Board which sponsored their application did not act  more vigorously in their behalf.
(96) Global membership carries with it one other im-  plication. The Director-General has rightly stressed  the need of co-operation in different fields throughthe  machinery of specialized international agencies, We  would only add that it is necessary to ensure that these  agencies are truly universal and representative of the  main regions of the world. At present many of them  are concentrated in Europe and America. I would  urge that a‘ least the organizations set up under Unes-  co's auspices or with contributions granted by Unesco  should be located in different areas of the world so  that they are more representative of the world as a  whole and so that the claims and needs of Asia and  Africa may not be overlooked.
(87) Global membership of Unesco and decentraliza-  tion of the programme are, as I have said, closely  linked in our minds. As the Organization becomes  more and more widely spread, it will become increas-  ingly difficult for a central Secretariat to frame  programmes to suit the needs of all. I am therefore  happy to learn that the Director-General himself is  anxious todiscuss with Member States programmes at  the formative stage. Two points, I think, must be  kept in mind in all such discussions. The firstIhave  already mentioned in some detail: there must be no  sense of superiority or spirit of condescension but a  recognition that we are all fellow workers ina common  task, The second point arises out of this, It 1s that  the regions themselves must be able to decide what  shape the programme shall take. Ther» ‘s often a  temptation - fortunately Unesco has been largely free  from it - for a central organization to try to dccide  what is good for its members. The real needs of a  region can, however, be best solved if the program-  mes for that region are framed in the region itself,by  people with intimate knowledge of and feeling for the  locality. Ihave used the term 'feeling" deliberately,  for knowledge is not always enough and without feel-  ing, without a sense of identification with the people  and the country, it is almost impossible to frame a  programme that will best serve their interests. This  is also the essence of democracy, for democracy is  not merely a political concept, but a way of life,where  every individual and every people have a right to de-  termine their destiny for themselves,
(98) 1 would like very briefly to inform fellow delega-  tes of what we are trying to do to expand the work of  education, science and culture in India. Ours is a  - 105 -
1-7 PLENARY  vast country. The number of children between 6 and
11 is over fifty million, much larger than the popula-  tior of France, In the last seven years, the number  of those in this age group who go to school has risen  from less than fifteen to over twenty millions. An  increase of over five mill:nn in elementary schools  alone in seven years is, you will agree, no smallach-  revement. The number of high schools has increased  from less than four thousand in 1947 to about ten thou  sand in 1553-54 and the number of secondary school  pupils from less than three millions to about six mil-  lions, again, perhaps more than the population of cer-  tain countries from which we have very distinguished  colleagues at this Conference. Our governmentalex-  penditure on education has been raised from less than
45 million dolla s in 1947 to over 200 million dollars  in 1953 and the figure for 1954 will be considerably  higher, Taking the Central Ministry of Education  alone, it has increased almost tenfold in the last seven  years. The total national expenditure on education  increased from about 100 million in 1947-48 to over
300 million in 1953. This progress has been achieved  in spite of natural calamities, partition of the country,  the movement of population on an unprecedented scale  and all the afterinath of war and farnine. Neverthe-  less our achievement 1s still far short of our aspira-  tions and of what we must provide for the people of  our country.
(99) I would have liked to discuss other aspectsofthe  programme and especiall, to acknowledge with thanks  the services received by us under the various pro-  grammes of Unesco, Time does not permit me to  dwell on all of them, but I would like to refer to the  Delhi Public Library and to the generous help we have  received under the various technical assistance pro-  grammes. If, at times, my remarks have been cri-  tical, it is because India is and will always be the  friend of Unesco, A friend criticizes and warns,  while an enemy strikes, We shall always criticize  and warn, but our hands will be the first to be raised  in defence of Unesco whenever an enemy seeks to  strike at it. As one of the founder members of the  Organization, we expect much from it, for we believe  that human welfare can ve realized only when the  minds and hearts of men are attuned to the Unesco  cause.
(100) Before I conclude, it is my pleasant duty tore-  peat, on behalf of my country, our cordial invitation  to hold the ninth General Conference of Unesco in In-  dia. In my letter to the Director-General, I hav:  mentioned some of the reasons why the next Confer-  ence should be held in India and I do not wish to re-  peat the arguments, but I would like to place special  stress on one point. No conference of Unesco has  yet been held in this part of the world, though East-  ern and Southern Asia contain more than half the en-  tire population of the world. It is an area which, for  historical and other reasons, 1s in the greatest need  of education and science. It is also a region which  has newly awakened from the torpor of centuries, The  masses are stirring and a new world is taking shape  before our eyes. This ancient arena of the world is  again the battleground of conflicting ideas, ideals  and world outlooks. On the outcome of this battle de-  pends the future of the world. If this region, where  more than half of mankind live, decides to follow the  path of militarism, aggrandizement and exploitation,    MEETINGS  the fate of Homo Sapiens is sealed. If, on the other  hand, it remains true to its ancient tradition and  adopts the way of democracy and peace, we can look  forward to an era when the tdeals of Unesco will be  realized. It is therefore Unesco's duty at this criti-  cal juncture to bring as vividly as possible to all peo-  ples of this region the 1deals inscribed in its Constitu-  tion: the 1deal of liberty, equality, dignity and social  Justice for all, realized through a programme of free  exchange of ideas and knowledge which will remove the  basic causes of misunderstanding and distrust among  all peoples and countries of the world, And what more  vivid way of doing so than to hold the next Conference  in the region itself?
(101) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the SpanisH:  I call on the delegate of the Netherlands.
(102) Mr. KRUYT (Netherlands) (Translation from  the French): Mr. President, I should like to begin by  thanking the Government of the Republic of Uruguay  for the warm-hearted hospitality we are receiving in  this fascinating city of Montevideo.
(103) In the address I had the honour to deliver at the  opening of the last General Conference in Paris in
1952, I was able to say that the Netherlands delegation  recognized with gratitude that Unesco's programme  for the year 1951-52 had done most beneficial servire  to educational, scientific and cultural life in the Ne-  therlands. No one could have thought then that only a  few months later the same services were to be renew  ed on an even greater scale, but in circumstances a  thousand times more tragic, You remember, I am  sure, that in the night of 31 January/1 February 1953,  the raging waters of the North Sea broke through and  flooded part of our country. The outburst of practi-  cal compassion which this catastrophe produced  throughout the world could not, of course, undo the  tragedy which had struck at what so many families  held most dear, but it produced immediate and abun-  dant material help and, above all, it gave the Nether-  lands people the psychological tonic they so badly need-  ed. [account it not only a debt of honour but a irue  pleasure to express from this rostrum the deep and  enduring gratitude of the Netherlands people towards  everyone - governments, private bodies and ordinary  individuals - who gave proof of their practical goou-  will to us in that tragic hour, A pcint worth stress-  ing is the great part played by ed- cational circles in  that assistance. From all over the world we receiv  ed funds and material expressly earmarked for the re-  construction of damaged schools and youth centres.  Here I am glad to offer our most heartfelt thanks, first-  ly to the individual members .{ th> Unesco Secretar-
1at who set aside a proportic: «i :+eir own salaries to  aid us, but also to the Unesco a.inorities - and I  would specially name Dr. John Taylor, the then De-  puty Director-General - who used the system of Unes-  co gift coupons to singularly good effect to facilitate  the despatch of immediate help even from the most  distant countries, We are also most deeply grateful to  all the Member States who so generously responded  to Unesco's appeal, This concrete and tangible  expression of the international understanding andco-  operation about which we talk so much at our meet  ings has given us further proof -ifproof were need-  ed - of the usefulness and worth of our Organization  - 106 -   PLENARY  and has powerfully encouraged our whole country to  strengthen its co-operation with Unesco.
(104) Without going into details of the part played by  the Kingdom of the Netherlands in the execution of  U.esco's programme during the two years since the  last General Conference, and without enlarging onthe  undoubtel benefits this programme has conferred on  education, science and culture in my country,l should  like tv single out as the most striking, and probably  also the most important item in our work with Unes-  co, the joint organization by Unesco and the Nether-  lands Government of an intergovernmental conference  tor the drafting and siguature of an Inte rnational Cor  vention for the Protection of Cultural Property in the  Event of Armed Conflict. The present General Con-  ference will have before it a report drawn up by the  Secretariat on the meeting. On our side 1 should  like to stress the Netherlands Government's satis-  faction that the conference, held in the Peace Palace  at The Hague, achieved such positive and encouraging  success. I should also like to mention the effect  ive and cordial co-operation achieved in this connex-  ion between the Unesco officials concerned and the  Netherlands Government. The conference itself ,and  the Director-General's visit to our country in con-  nexion with it, have undoubtedly done a great service  to Unesco's cause in the Netherlands.
(105) The Hague conferc ice was marked by another  event which may have consequences much moreim-  portant and, we sincerely hupe, much more positive  for the achizvement of our Organization's aims than  the signature of the Convention then adopted. This  conference was, actually, the first occasion when the  Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and a number of  other States of Eastern Europe showed a desire toco-  operate with our Organization, and in their presence  at this General Conference we see evidence of their  wish to establish that co-operation on a permanent  and positive hasis. We rejoice at their decision,not  merely because it gives our Organization the univer-  sality we have wanted for it since its foundation, but  also because it is a step towards expanding interna-  tional co-operation in education, science and culture  with countries which have themselves a centuries-old  scientific and cultural tradition. A free exchange of  ideas and publications and free personal contacts with  the men of science and culture in those countries, if
1t could be effected, would be an important step to-  wards the establishment of an enduring peace and of  fruitful international co-operation. We await with  eagerness, and will study with the liveliest interest,  the measures which the new Member States propose  to adopt for putting into effect the lofty principles in-  corporated in the Constitution which is the basis of  Unesco's activities.
(106) I shall not take up the time of the Conference  at this stage with the comments my delegation would  like to make on certain items of the programme be-  fore us for the years 1955-56. I should simply like  to say that we whole-heartedly approve the general  lines of the programme and that we are grateful to  the Executive Board, the Director-General and his  colleagues for producing a proposed programme cer  tring more or less on a limited number of activities  which are genuinely within the Organization's pro-  vince, This Conference will, of course, have to  take decisions on certain changes of structure but,  - 107     MEETINGS u-7  important though these may be, we should not like the  discussion to be so concentrated on technical and ad-  ministrative matters thit the actual programme items,  which have a great importance of their own, are over-  looked.
(107) The programme for 1955-56 and the general  line proposed for the development of the activities to  be pursued in 1957-58 are evidence of a remarkable  effort of creative imagination by the Executive Board,  the Director-General and the Secretariat. The re-  sult of these efforts is to be found in certain para-  graphs of the Director -Genei al's introduction to the  proposed programme and budget, in the Executive  Board's introduction to the same document and in the  document on the remodelling of future Unesco pro-  grammes. In our view these documents contain sug-  gestions of the greatest interest and we hope that the  Programme and Bucget Commission will be able to  carry out a really comprehensive exchange of views  on the various proposals.
(108) Nevertheless, w= think it absolutely necessary  to ask for a further explanation of the general sense  of the document on the remodelling of future Unesco  programmes. It might be thought that the large pro-  portion of the available funds to be set aside for what  the document ca ls "special tctivities” mears that an  increasingly large proportion of the Organization's  activities will, in future, be directed to providing  technical assistanc> for underdeveloped Member Sta-  tes, The distinctions made in the document between  technical assistance proper and special activities un-  dertaken at the reque.it of a Member State have not  succeeded in allaying this fear. Our own belief 1s  that the passage in question seeks only to distinguish  between "general activities”, 1.e. without fixed limits  in time and space, and "special activities” i.e. acti-  vities of hmited duration and inv. iving only one Mem-  ber State or group of Member States, If our inter-  pretation is incorrect and the former interpretation  the right one, we should not be prepared to accept  this passage. While we recognize the absolute ne-  cessity in the world of today for a wide programme of  technical assistance to underdeveloped States - and  the relatively very large contribution of the Nether-  lands to the Technical Assistance Programme of the  United Nations proves that we pay more than lip ser-  vice to the ide“. - we are strongly of the opinion that  assistance proper 1s one thing, but that world-wide in  tellectual co-operation between the competent indivi-  duals and organizations in the sphere of education,  science and culture is quite another and it was for the  latter purpose that Unesco was primarily set up. We  hope that the Genercl Conference now meeting will  succeed in reaching an absolutely clear-cut ruiing on  this point.
(109) Another subject which warrants a full-scaledis-  cussion is the composition of the Executive Board. We  believe that the lines of reasoning leading to the two  competing propositions are not basically different;  they simply represent different points of approach,  Actually, one party holds strictly to the meaning of  the term "Executive Board" and of its functions as gi  ven in Articie V, paragraph B, of the present Consti-  tution. They lay special emphasis on the fact that  the Executive Board, acting under authority from the  General Conference, is responsible to the Conference  for the execution of the programme adopted by the
11-7 PLENARY  latter and that, accordingly, these supervisory func-  tions, exercised on behalf of the Member States, can  be better carried out by persons expressly delegated  by them. The other party, while not denying or seek-  ing to lessen the importance of this duty of the Exe-  cutive Board, would prefer the Board lo consist of in-  dividuals representing the world's various cultures  and to be the adviser par excellence of (he Director-  General, with the task of working out with him the ge-  neral lines on which international co-operation is to  be developed in the spheres of education, science and  culture - and I feel | am not misrepresenting the views  of the first group in pointing out that they too admit  that this is one aspect c! {ne Executive Board's task.  At the last General Conference, where this question  was previously discussed, my delegation did notdis-  semble its opinion that, from the point of view of the  needs incidental to the Organization's own work, the  governments of Member States already had adequate  powers, in the shape of representation at the General  Conference, to maintain their control of the Organiza  tion's activities and that the Executive Bcard would  therefore do well to concentrate on the positive as-  pects of its task, The views both of my delegation  and of the Netherlands-National Commission for Un-  esco have certainly not changed. We are, however,  forced to admit that circumstances external to the Or  ganization and arising rather out of current political  developments in the world make it desirable that, in  the immediate future at any rate, the Executive Board  should be made up of rep: esentatives of governments,  We should, however, like to draw most emphatic at-  tention to paragraph 2 of Article V, Section A, which,  incidentally, has not been changed by draft amend-  ments. This paragraph provides that the General  Conference shall take special care to include in the  Executive Board distinguished figures of special auth-  ority in the spheres of art, letters, science, educa-  tion and communication of thought, We are confident  that all Membr r States vili make a point of bearing  this specific provision of the Constitution in mind  so that, whilé securing the advantages of having ac-  credited rep: esentatives of States on the Executive  Board, we n.ay still have the advantage of the colla-  boration in :ducation, science and culture, of people  who are pr‘:-eminently qualified to give a lead in  these fielas.
(110) Toe pi «3ent General Conference is undoubtedly  of sp:cial importance for the future of our Organiza-  tion. My .elegation, which has the honour to repre-  sent here che Netherlands, Surinam and the Nether-  lancs Wes Indies, the three autonomous divisions of  the hino.om, has every confidence in that future.
(111) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanishy  I call on the delegate of the United States of America.
(112) Mr. NUFER (United States of America): Mr.  President, fellow delegates, the selection by Unesco  of Montevideo as the seat of the eighth session of the  General Conference constitutes an appropriate recog-  nition of the contribution Latin America has made to  the ideals and objectives of the Organization.Uruguay  has been a pioneer in cultural, political and social de-  velopment. It has traced bold new patterns which  have aroused the interest of the entire world. These  patterns,moreover, have been conceived ina framewor x    MEETINGS  of freedon. nd liberty. The generous welcome Uru-  guay has ex nded to the peoples of all nations who have  come here t.. vnjoy the climate of peace, equality of op-  portunity, an racial and religious freedom, is one  more indicat: . of its devotion to the principle of the  fundamental dignity of msn.
(113) Before pr. senting | e views of the United States  delegation to the Confere: >, I should like to refer  briefly to what in our opin is the most significant  development in Unvsco sin the seventh Conference,  This is the proposal to ren. lel the programme, We  believe that this eighth Conf. ence will go down in Un-  esco annals as an historic onc if it accepts and imple-  ments the proposal,
(114) The Executive Board has rendered a great ser-  vice in its development of this basic idea, including  the division of the programme into general and special  activities. These special activities afford great pro  misc for the future in that they would take advantage  of the lessons of the past and would envisage major  projects which will clearly show Unesco to be a pro-  gressive and dynamic force in the world.
(115; In this spirit the Secretariat, acting at the sug-  gestion of the Executive Board, has proceeded to re-  vise the 1955-56 programme. The Director-General  and the staff have demonstrated a sound understanding  of the concept set forth for their guidance,
(116) The tenth anniversary of Unesco in 1956 will be  an appropriate time for celebration. It would be fit-  ting to observe that notable occasion by cnarting a  course whose new bearing would reflect the cumula-  tive experience of the past and a clear and realistic  vision of the future,
(117) In order to be prepared for a new orientation in
1956, it is important that we give careful thought at  this eighth Conference to ways and means of planning  the remodelled programme. We must be certain that  the ideas of all of the Member States as well as those  of the Secretariat are pooled in order that there may  be evolved a group of practical and sound projects  which will be readily understood by all and which will  reflect Unesco ideals in being,
(118) In moving towards such goals, we must retain  as our guide and compass the Constitution of Unesco.  We must constantly remember the euds for which the  programme is but a mean”. Education for all, the  growth and appreciation vf «nowledge, the diffusionof  science and culture, the advancement of respect for  human rights, the increase of understanding and co-  operation among peoples - these are the great pur-  poses to which specific activities and projects must be  related, These purposes advance the prospect of  well-being and peace to the extent that they are shared  by all,
(119) We, in the United States, are vitally interested  in these peaceful purposes. To promote complete  freedom of exchange of ideas and information is to  make available to all peoples the knowledge that their  fellow-men share with them the common desire for a  peaceful world. To acnieve a better mutual under-  standing, it is essential that the man-made barriers  to communication between peoples be progressively  reduced. Tre very fact that representatives of  so many peoples here take counsel together is in  itseli a contribution to peace. Think, then, of  how this contribution will multiply and grow as  mutual confidence and the interchange of  - 108 -   PLENARY  ideas flourish through the world-wide ac-~  tivittes of Unesco.
(120) The principal recommendations of the United  States National Commission for Unesco, whicn I now  wish to lay before you, are in accord with what Ihave  said about the remodelling of the programme.
(121) First, we believe that sustained effort shou’i  be directed toward strengthening important and per-  manent services, such as intellectual co-operation,  clearing house activities and the exchange of informa  tion and materials in the fields of Unesco's compe-  tence. The Organization has a unique responsibility  for linking those who are active, the creative work-  ers, in the various fields of knowledge, To these  ends more effective use should be made of selected  responsible non-governmental agencies. This will  avoid spreading Unesco's funds too thinly and should  develop greater self-support in these agencies.
(122) Second, Unesco must concentrate its resour-  ces on a limited number of major projects.The United  States has pressed for this policy at several previous  conferences. We have thought that there should be  fewer undertakings and that more resources should be  devoted to each, so that really significant results  could be achieved. We are gratified that the 1955-56  programme represents 8 forward step in this  direction,
(123) Third, we believe that the Unesco programme  should reflect, even more clearly than it now does, a  concern for the promotion of international understand-  ing and co-operation, We urged at the seventh con-  ference and we urge again that a strong interdepart-  mental committee be set up in the Secretariat to plan  and co-ordinate the activities and projects which bear  on this important subject.
(124) Fourth, criority should continue tobe given  among the major projects to those for fundamental  education and the extension of education, particularly  elementary education. Each session of the General  Conference has recognized the challenging problem  presented by the continued existence of mass illiter-  acy, poverty, hunger and disease, Unesco has a  great responsibility, along with such sister agencies  as the Food and Agriculture Organization, the Inter-  national Labour Organization and the World Health  Organization, for tackling these problems. The need  for training in literâcy, in health, in improvement of  agricultural methods, in crafts, in home economics,  in commumity development and civic education is un-  disputed. In view of this need, much more of Unes-  co's resources should be devoted to the programme  of fundamental education.
(125) Fifth, the United States believes that Unesco  should make a greater effort to assess the success or  failure of its projects. Considering the complexity  of the urexplored field in which Unesco is working, it  is only common sense to take frequent bearings inor-  der to determine whether the course of action is ef-  fective. We therefore believe that, in the future,  major projects should be so planned as to incorporate  programmes of evaluation. Thus each stage of the  projec. wiil proceed with full knowledge of what has  been successful, as well as a clear recogrition of  what has not worked well at a preceding stage.
(126) Another question to which the United States de-  legation attaches prime importance is the joint pro-  posal sponsored by the Governments of Australia,    MEETINGS I[-7  Brazil, the United Kingdom and the United States to  amend Article V of the Unesco Constitution.The object  of this proposal is to make members of the Executive  Board responsible representatives of their govern-  ments, At the same time, of course, they will con-  tinue to be responsible to the General Conference and  to defer to its wishes. At the seventh General Con-  ference a similar proposal was put forward, but ac-  tion was postponed until this session. Some objections  to this concept have been expressed on the ground that  its adoption might lead to a frustration of the ideals  which inspired the creation of Unesco and to the des-  truction of vision and imagination in its leaders. lt is  our conviction, however, that the future of Unescoand  its activities lies in the hands of the governments  which comprise it, that its potentialities can be devel  oped only to the extent that its direction inspires the  confidence of Member States, and that the first step  toward that goal is the assurance that members of the  Executive Board are in fact responsive to the views of  their governmeuits. it follows also that the decisions  of an Executive Board so constituted would carry much  greater weight with rnember gu vernments than is the  case at present. It would be ‘he moral responsibility  of gevernments to appoint as their representatives per-  sons of outstanding achievement in the fields of educa  tion, science and culture, in full consultation with  their National Commissions.
(127) The founding of Unesco was an act of faith -  faith in man's ability to recognize truth through the  free interchange of information, faith in his ability to  improve his lot through common effort. We in the  United States have not lost that faith,
(128) The years of Unesco's life have been troubled  ones, and many difficulties are still unresolved. Yet  we belicve that the prospects for peace have recently  improved. The United States Government has taken  the initiative in submitting to the United Nations, Pre-  sident Eisenhower's imaginative and constructive  plan for the peaceful use of atomic energy which will  enable all peoples to share its benefits, The partner-  ship of free nations has begun to show positive results.  Peace has been restored and old disputes settled in  several parts of the world. Every man who truly  longs for peace can derive hope from the progress  which has been made. Once again it has been demon  strated that men working together in an atmosphere of  goodwill, intelligence and perseverance can overcome  serious obstacles and achieve substantial results,
(129) These developments encourage and strengthen  us in our aspiration for a world of free men, where  the will of the people is fully recognized, a world  where barriers of fear and prejudice will be replaced  by ties of friendship and mutual understanding.
(130) (Translation from the Spanish): Mr. President,
1 shall ask your leave to add a few words in Spanish -  a few words to express ‘he heartfelt thanks of all my  colleagues in the United States delegation and of my-  self for the innumerable attentions we have received  from the Government and the people of this country.  Uruguayan hospitality is, of course, proverbial, but  even so we had expected nothing so kindly and so ge-  nerous. For us of the United States delegation it is  a matter ut singular satisfaction that this session of  Unesco's General Conference should be held in a  country of the Americas. The spiritual, culturaland  historic links binding the American Republics together  - 109 -
11-7 PLENARY  have made this hemisphere a region of peace and calm  with an ever more marked atmosphere of friendship  and mutual understanding. May God grant that 1nthe  near future this same atmosphere of friendship and  understanding may prevail, with Unesco's aid, among  all the nations of the world.
(131) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish}  I call on the delegate of Denmark.
(132) Mrs. KOCH (Denmark): Mr President, the  Danish delegation associates itself with the expres-  sions of thanks to the Uruguayan Government and peo-  ple for their very kind and extremely sympathetic  hospitality.
(133) Some days ago, as I listened to the noble and  inspiring words of the delegate of the Gold Coast, 1  tore up most of the speech | had meant to make What  does that matter? Most of the problems I had thought  to deal with have already been mentioned - and they  will be dealt with more profoundly in the respective  committees of this Conference. We Danish dele-  gates - few as we are - will do our best to advance  our points of view in the appropriate places. Three of  us have been at Unesco work from the beginning; 1  alone am here for the first time. Allow me to talk  to ycu with the freshness of a first meeting with  Unesco upon my lips.
(134) I was deeply impressed by the words of the  Gold Coast delegate. He told us of the great endea-  vour of his people, of the many useful things the Gow  ernmeat of the Gold Coast intends to teach the popu-  lation, and, among those things, he mentioned the  Joy of living.
(135) I have been reading over and over again during  the last year some modern African poems in Danish  translation, and | saw in a glimpse the wide and won-  derful perspective of the work of Unesco.
(136) What have we not to learn from each other ?The  old, experienced and somewhat weary democracies  have much to give, but surely we have still more to  learn, as true as we are living democracies.Denmark,  now a very small country, but in days long ago a co-  lonial power, treated the Gold Coast in a manner that  we prefer not to remember, All of us here are link-  ed together in the process of history. History must  take its course. We cannot weaken the sway of pow-  er-politics from one day to another, nor from one  year to another. That is a rong-term task of wise  and patient statesmanship.
(137) But here, on the platform of Unesco, we are  not bound to schemes of political thinking, if we crave  freedom in our hearts. Let me be open with you.  When this august assembly refused by a large major-  ity to deal with the problem of Peking China andevad-  ed the question of accepting Rumania and Bulgaria to  membership, ! felt sad. The act seerned to betoken  the lassitude of the old world. Where is the sense of  not receiving New China among us in Unesco? New  China, with her roots deeper in the ancient history of  human civilization than most of our countries ,has cho-  sen her own way, It is not our democratic way. We  may regret that, but perhaps in a sense we of  the Western world are responsible for it. When  you meet with a rebuff, your heart hardens. That  is a psychological law of hurnan nature, the same  in the nurseries as at conference tables,    MEETINGS
(138) Let us learn to analyse our own behaviour and  to revise some of our conventional ideas, We have  a duty to do so, here in Unesco, in the name of truth  and the freedom of mankind. We have hitherto acted  on the assumption that by far the larger part of our  work lies outside the political sphere and is concerned  with the needs, hopes and aspirations of all humanity,  We want to enlist the forces of science and culture for  the founding of a lasting peace on the common heritage  of mankind, safe from the uncertainties and vicissi-  tudes of everyday political hfe.
(139) But enough of this. The Director-General al-  lowed us to talk of the principles of Unesco while de-  bating his Report and my remarks had cat purpose  only in mind.
(140) As to the Report itself, the Danish delegation  finds that that document - as well as the programme  and budget - reflects the readiness of the Director-  General, his Secretariat and the Executive Board to  pay attention i> justified and constructive criticism,  and to utilize it 11 a persistent effort to improve  Unesco's prograrnme and activities.
(141) Denmark has repeatedly supported the efforts to  concentrate Unesco's resources on essential and welt  defined tasks, its main effort to he directed towards  improving education and science in parts of the world  which are cconomically and socially underdeveloped.  I wish to reaffirm our support for such efforts, butat  the same time I have to emphasize that a suitable equi  librium must be maintained between such activities  and the support to be given to international scientific  and cultural co-operation through non-governmental  professional organizations,
(142) The work of the international institutes in Ger  many has been followed with great interest in Denmark  We hope that the Organization may succeed in carry-  ing on and developing these institutes and, as a token  of our interest in these problems, the Danish Parlia-  ment has appropriated contributions of 35,000 Danish  kroner for each of the years 1955 and 1956,
(143) We have noted with satisfaction that valuable  work has been carried out on the special problem of  women. We should welcome it if substantially more  weight were given to the education of women to tale  their share of responsibility for social development;  it is important not only for women, but for the sound  growth of democracy itself.
(144) If Unesco is to live and grow in the way that it  deserves te, we must reach the broad masses of the  people. It is therefore a good thing, we think, that  Unesco's programme includes projects which pave  the way for active co-og2ration by the individual citi-  zen and make a direct appeal to the mau in the street  | am referring to two projects in particular: Exchange  of Workers and Uresco's Gift Coupon Scheme, both  of which have been very valuable to us in Denmark.  The implementation of these two projects hes made a  deep impression on Danish minds and has enabled us  to dispel in the eyes of the ordinary citizen the abs-  traction that so easily attaches to international orga-  nizations. How can persons not directly engaged in  Unesco work identify themselves with the great  task for which we have joined forces? 1 believe  that the answer to that question 1s very impor-  tant, for, unless the peoples commit themselves  sincerely and actively to international work, that  work will sooner or later disintegrate.  - 110 -   PLENARY
(145) More than any other of Unesco's initiatives, the  Gift Coupon Scheme has assumed concrete form inthe  minds of the Danish people. It can help people to  break away from traditional prejudices and attain a  truer sense of values. Indeed the benefits of the cou  pon scheme to ourselves are so substantial thai we  have come to look upon the scheme as a gift to us. In  the administration of the scheme we in Denmark have  endeavoured to give equal weight to its value to reci-  pient countries and to its educational importance for  our own people. The coupon scheme has made such  a profound appeal to the mind that the Danish youth  organizations have joined forces and taken up this  work with a realization of its human potentialities and  with a keenness no one had dared anticipate, A large  share of the work on the coupon scheme has been per-  formed in our schools, There, too, the result has  been so encouraging that the non-governmental orga-  nization - which the National Commission entrusted  with the administration of the scheme - 1s now fram-  ing & school plan. These are, in very brief outline,  a few of the thoughts and ideas arising out of our ex-  perience of the coupon scheme in Denmark. We want  as far as possible to make the scheme a manifesta-  tion of human solidarity, a real and true exchange.
(146) And now - speaking of human solidarity - will  add two words on the staff problem submitted fur dis-  cussion by the Director-General, The Danish dele-  gation finds that the staff regulations are good as they  are and we hope that whatever solution is found will  safeguard the effective work of the staff without en-  croaching on the rights of staff members to held per-  sonal opinions in the fields mentioned in the Human  Rights Declaration, rights which we in Denmark  maintain for our civil servants as a matter of course.
(147) After this general debate, we shall come to  grips with the details of our programme, We shall  judge each item on its merits according as it advances  the well-being of humanity, materially and spiritual-  ly; according as it enhances understanding between  nations and provides better educational conditions for  future generations.
(148) Just as science has no use for national prestige  or political prejudice, so in all matters of the mind  the indulgence of prejudice and consi erations of pres-  tige are short-sighted and sterile. [Truth has an in-  herent strength and this encourages the hope that we  shall be able to co-operate, different as we are in  ideology and way of life.
(149) With its increased membership, Unesco is  faced at this General Conference with new possibili-  ties and they might have been greater still, if we had  reached another decision on the admission of certain  new members. As things are, let us fact these new  possibilities with open-mindedness and courage, with  goodwill and patience The Danishd* _ationpledges  its full co-operation at this important juncture.
(150) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call on the delegate of Guatemala,
(151) Mr. DIA? S.ima10A (Guatemala) (Translation  from the Spanish): Mr. President, ladies and gen  tlemen, the delegation of Guatemala to the eighth  General Conference of the United Nations Educa-  tional, Scientific and Cultural Organization has the  honour through me to greet the delegations of the    MEETINGS 11-7  other countries met together on tills Important occas-  ion, and more particularly the Director-General of  the Organization.
(152) It 1s also a matter of the deepest satistactionto  the delegation of Guatemala to have this wonderful op-  portunity of enjoying the warm and intellectual atmos-  phere of Uruguay, a cultured and generous-hearted  land which has upheld in Spanish America the loftiest  ideals of culture and was and 1s an exemplar of those  purest forms of democratic life towards whose attain  ment the efforts and aspirations of mankind are  directed.
(153) This delegation accordingly pays a tribute of ad-  miration, in the distinguished person of the President  of the Conference, Mr. Zavala M mz, to that hospi-  table nation which today receives cur delegations and  it is a satisfaction to us at ss auspicious a moment of  international communion té recall the glowing thought  of José Enrique Rod6, the me..or of American youth,  who said "In the life of human societies progress 1s  essentially bringing 1deals to life, From the pious  veneration of the past and the cult of tradition, on the  one hand, and from the bold reaching out to the fu-  ture, on the other, 1s drawn the noble power which,  uplifting the spirit of the community above the limita-  tions of the present, shapes its stirring and vague emo-  tions Into an ideal”,
(154) A notion very like that so penetratingly expres-  sed by Roc - one of America's great minds - has in  spired the United Nations Educational, Scientific and  Cultural Organization in the distinguished work it has  accomplished during its existence, and for that rea-  son the corfidence of the peoples within its orbit inats  efforts to build a better future for mankind through the  gradual extension of the loftiest values of the culture  of all ages is firm and unshakable.
(155) With a sure appreciation of the special circum-  stances of the nations in which it is working Unesco1s  pursuing the essential aims it professes of progres-  sively elevating the minds of men to lay the solid  foundations of permanent peace for distant ages yet  unborn. So much is shown by the tasks already par-  tially accomplished - differing indeed but linked in  essence by a single intent - in the spheres of scienti-  fic research, of the dissemination of culture, of tech  nical assistance, of the teaching of innumerable  disciplines and of fundamental education. These tasks  of world significance can be seen by all, and the re-  cord of them 1s inscribed in the Report and its supple-  ment submitted by the Director-General and the  Executive Board for '953 and the first half of 1954,
(156) The nature of the work the Organization hasac-  complished strengthens the idea, already dominantin  our age, that humanity, beset by innumerable perils  and still tormented by the effects of the late world-  wide conflagration, 1s casting around in search of a  way towards the principles of idealism, that it is seek-  ing the path it needs by the light of a revived and spi-  ritualized humanism which promotes the flowering of  human personality, champions the basic concept of  human dignity and battles to secure the respect and  maintenance of that atmosphere of freedom essential  for the soul to be able to find its truest and loftiest  expression,
(157) This obviously is of primary importance ir Un-  esco's work, but it in no wise means that Unesco for-  gets that other, material factors have a definite part  - 111 -   I(-7 PLENARY  in the adva. cement of those human groups who profit  by its work, or underrates those factors. The truth
1s that in many St-tes, members of the Organization,  whole sections of the population are on the borderline  cf the stage of economic advance achieved by the aver-  age man of our age, These groups require priority  attention and there can be no doubt that a body such  as Unesco will increase the aid it already gives to  some of them, fitting them for every aspect of life,  with the co-operation of governments, National Com-  missions or specialized cultural institutions in the  countries concerned so that they can attain the enjoy-  ment of the high standard of living to which they are  entitled.
(158) It is surely important to repeat that the econo-  mic development of these human groups must proceed  in close parallel with their spiritual and social uplift,  so that the degree of progress thus brought about may  fittingly mirror the ideal of the full development of hu-  man personality which is the yardstick prescribed by  the most advanced educational thought of our epoch.  It is only right to provide underdeveloped countries  with the material resources they still lack, the speci  fic skills and talents they do not yet possess, so that  they may achieve a more rewarding life in the mater-  ial sense; but what is done will be immensely more  laudable if, concurrently and parallel with this, new  avenues are opened to their minds by efforts to com-  bat illiteracy and by the training of the intellect.
(139) For these reasons I feel that a word of praise  is merited by that section of the Director-General's  Report dealing with what Unesco has done in the  sphere of fundamental education, supported by orga-  nizations and individuals in its Member States; and  from the good results secured it would appear that in  the future conduct of this line of education it would be  well to add to the purely formative subjects the fine  arts, in order to continue thereby to awaken to life  the full possibilities inherent in human beings.
(160) Guatemala recognizes the successful work ac-  complished by Unesco in its various activities and  through its delegation proclaims its resolve to con-  tinue to extend the co-operation merited by the excel  lence of Unesco's aims. We are convinced that cul-  ture is par excellence the medium by which to bring  men together on a plane of brotherhood and co-opera-  tion and in that belief we are ready to co-operate  without reserve in the execution of the projects which  Unesco is planning, confident that this will redound to  the benefit of mankind and to the cause of justice.
(161) We firmly believe that the same feelings are  entertained by the other Member States of this Orga-  nizaticn; we are convinced of the ability of those at  the head of Unesco, to whose weighty judgment a task  as great as it is delicate is committed, and we hope  that our own prcblems regarding the education of peo-  ple who stand in need of it and regarding the creation  of specialist centres for the better exploitation of our  natural resources may receive the generous attention  from Unesco, from whose services we hope to obtajn  sure guidance and benevolent support. Only recent-  ly our University of San Carlos made the first moves  towards the establishment of an institute for the teach  ing of the social sciences for the specific purpose of  research, an example which will be widely followed  in the other countries of South America. It has ac-  cordingly forwarded a request to Unesco for the    MEETINGS  provision, as far as possible, of technical assistance  in the early formative years of the new cultural insti-  tution and hopes for a favourable response.
(162) The delegation of Guatemala believes that Unes-  co has accomplished invaluable work during the period  under examination and extends its warmest felici-  tations to the leaders who are thus consolidating the  existence and prestige cf a body which deserves the  support of everyone because they benefit from and are  ennobled by its work.
(163) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  To conclude the debate for this morning I call upon the  delegate of Yugoslavia.
(164) Mr. VLAHOVIC (Yugosis-via) (Translation from  the Spanish): Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen,  the delegation of Yugoslavia has only a few general  observations to proffer on the programme and budget  and the Director-General's Report. There are many  good things in the proposed programme for 1955-56,  but we are accustomed to say little about good things  since good things speak for themselves. Accordingly,
1 am going to devote more time to certain observa-  tions which should be regarded as suggestions design-  ed to provide some slight assistance towards the im-  provement of Unesco's work - a thing which I imagine  we all desire.
(165) First and foremost, it should be pointed out  that in the course of the work done so far Unesco has  acquired a rich furd of experience. Year by year the  programmes improve but the improvement still does  not sufficiently reflect both the positive and the nega-  tive lessons of previous years. Sometimes one gets  the impression that certain forms of activity pursued  by Unesco which have not yielded satisfactory results  are continued from year to year simply because Unes-  co's organs, including the General Conference, are  not yet bold enough to liquidate more firmly certain  survivals from the earliest years of Unesco's forma-  tior and activities when hesitation and experiments  were inevitable, On the other hand, the life and ac-  tivities of Unesco and the evolution of its work are  compelling the inception of new kinds of activities  which are still not provided for early enough nor ex-  ploited to the full.
(166) If we analyse Unesco's programme of work for  the next two years on this basis, it will be seen that  «he programme is more precise and more practical,  that it takes into account the experience gained, that  it is being resoluiely directed towards providing ef-  fective aid to the underdeveloped countries, a point I  wish especially to comment, but that the old notions  of a kind of abstract universalism of the Unesco of  the early years still survive in some form in the new  programme,
(167) Throughout the programme the tendency is still  apparent of trying to combine disparate philosophical  ideas, to fuse disparate schools of sociology and even  disparate historical methods. We must be clear in  our minds that it is no misfortune for contemporary  mankind that there should be different philosophical  notions, different schools of sociology or different  methods of interpreting history and we must realize  that these differences cannot be overcome by an arti-  ficial synthesis and that all efforts to that end are in  vain, [doubt myself whether even the comparative  -112 -   PLENARY  explanations of the different concepts which are given  in publications, as is now being done in the sphere of  sociology, can yleld positive results.
(168) Secondly, we have seen from the Director-  General's and the Executive Board's Reports that  Unesco is still not ‘aking proper advantage of the  possibilities of National Commissions. The Yugoslav  delegation drew attentionto this matter as long as three  years ago at the sixth General Conference neld in  Paris, and the heads of certain delegations have men-  tioned the matter at the present session of the Gener-  al Conference.l think we are all agreed that, without  energetic work by National Commissions and without  better integration of their work with that of Unesco,  we cannot hope to achieve better results or to suc-  ceed in extending and improving the work which is one  of Unesco's principal tasks today as in the future.
(169) We fully appreciate the difficulties which Unes-  co has to cope with in its efforts to cater for culture,  education and science in different countries, fromthe  most backward to the most advanced. Clearly, ro  middle policy can here be found which will satisfy all  these different countries nor can Unesco be a world  Ministry of Education, Science and Culture. Butthis  difficulty can and must be overcome by fuller ca-op-  eration with the National Commissions and by Unesco  giving support to the various national schemes. In  this last connexion I want to acknowledge with satis-  faction the close attention and practical measures of  assistance which Unesco has extended to Yugoslavia  in such a very interesting unce i ing as that of edu-  cational reform, the results of which ar& most im-  portant to Yugoslavia, the proposal being to adopt  modern teaching methods, There is no doubt thatthe  ovtcome of this work, which will take some years to  accomplish, will also be exceedingly interesting to  other countries.
(170) The Yugoslav delegation is accordingly follow-  ing very closely the efforts of certain other delega-  tions to open up new prospects for Unesco's future  work. Here the Indian delegation's proposal draw-  ing attention to the need to allow for the special fea-  tures of the various parts of the world merits serious  consideration.
(171) This brings me to my third point: in the future,  interregional co-operation will become much more  important. I am glad to be able to point out that  scientific, cultural and educational co-operation be-  tween Greece, Turkey and Yugoslavia has already  yielded modest initial results. I am con-  vinced that this form of co-operation is go-  ing to increase progressively and 1 hope that  Unesco will give it every support. As 1  Lave already said, the trend towards region-  al co-operation. is growing but it should not  become self-centred or isolated, although cases  of this kind already exist and will continue to do  so in the future.    MEETINGS 1-7
(172) I went to say a word or two on the question of  Unesco's Mass Communication Department, As we  already know, more than a million dollars is alloca-  ted to this Department and its staff work very hard,  but it strikes me that the method of working adopted  by Unesco is very cumilar to the methods of centrali-  zed governmental propaganda, where all the informa-  tion is assembled at the centre and thence routed to  the places where it is used, On the question whether  this is an up-to-date and effective way of working,  there are doubts which are borne out by experience. It  is obvious that no proper co-operation has been devel-  oped with the information services of the other Specia-  lized Agencie- and above all with those of the United  Nations so that inadequate advantage is taken of allthe  services available for the dissemination of informa-  tion or all the possibilities afforded by the United Na-  tions. On this point the delegation of Yugoslavia wish-  es to enter reservations and trusts that Unesco will  take account of these in its future work.
(173) I should like to emphasize that the present in-  ternational situation justifies a hope that there will  develop an atmosphere more favourable to successful  work in those spheres of special interest to Unesco.  Although Unesco is a non-political organization, we  cannot forget that it is an international organization  and as such can make a weighty contribution to the fu-  ture development of international relations, to the  growth of international co-operation, to the deepening  of understanding between the peoples, to the notion of  peaceful coexistence of countries widely unlike in their  economic and social systems, in a word, to the fight  for peace and for peaceful relations between States.  Science, culture and education can exercise an ex-  tremely favourable and positive influence on the fu-  ture development of international relations if in the lat-  ier there prevail betler understanding and closer co-  operation and if many of the prejudices of the pastare  eliminated.
(174) I should also like, on behalf of the Yugoslavde-  legaticn, to express our gratitude to the Director -Gener-  al and his staff for the progress achieved in Unesco's work  Not long ago, in Belgrade, Dr.Evans and I had occasion  to discuss a number of matters relating to Unesco's ac-  tivities and were glad to find an atmosphere of mutual  understanding. As it has done up to now, Yugoslavia will  continue to afford effective aid in the common task of  achieving Unesco's objectives and carrying out its  programme.
(175) Finally,Ishouldlike to associate myself with the re-  marks of the heads of other delegations and to offer the  people and the Government of Uruguay the hearty thanks  of the Yugoslav delegation for the cordial welcome given  us and for the immense pains taken to ensure that our stay  is as pleasant and our work as fruitful as possible in this  lovely land.  The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m.  - 113 -