(97) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) was puzzled by  the United States delegate 's proposal. He considered  that the system of working on an average grade was  administratively impracticable and wondered how, if  adopted, it could be put into practice, He asked  whether it was used in other agencies.
(98) Mr. FARR (Chief, Bureau of Perscnnel and  Management) said that the United Nations and all the  Specialized Agencies kept a careful watch on the  tendency for grading patterns in their secretariats to  become higher. He was not, however, aware of any  action to lay down methods of control, except that the  Fifth Committee of the United Nations Assombly, on  receipt of the Secretary-General‘s proposals ‘or  upgrading, had reduced the amount available. The  Director-General's proposal had been for the Com-  mittee to set an average grade rather than deal with  the matter in terms of finance. In maintaining the  average, he would consider the administrative struc-  ture of divisions where upgradings were proposed,  and make equivalent downgradings if necessary.
(99) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) was still  sceptical of the procedure and considered it too  arbitrary. Uresco's Constitution gave the Director-  General complete freedom of action in staffing and,  having appointed a Director-General, it was not  advisable to restrict his actions in that respect,
(100) Miss LAISE (United States of America) said  that she too had been sceptical, but had made her  suggestion in view of the wishes expressed by the  Director-General, She still wished for the informa-  tion she had requested and also asked whether the 86  reclassifications had been taken into account when  calculating the within-grade increases for 1955-56.
(101) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau c° Programme  and Budget) said that within-grade increments had  increased by $319,027 in 1955-56 over 1953-54, and  he confirmed that the 86 reclassifications had been  taken into account. An amount of 6% was deducted  from the budget for established posts in each depart-  ment to allow for turnover and lapses in recruiting  for new posts.  PROGRAMME AND BUDGET     VI-16
(102) Miss LAISE (United Staies of America) pro-  posed that the amount of $73,000 for reclassifications  should be reduced to $50,000.
(103) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  wished to know whether it was the intention of the  delegate of the United States of America that the  proposed reduction should be made specifically on  reclassified posts, or was it to be spread over all the  appropriations for established posts? Did she agree  to a reduction of $23,000 in the whole budget for  established posts, as a gesture?
(104) Miss LAISE (United States of America) accepted  the Assistant Director-General's interpretation of  her proposal,
(105) Mr, BOW (Canada) remarked that the Director-  General would still be free to increase the proportion  of high-grade posts if he so wished.
(106) The CHAIRMAN said that, while that would be  the budgetary effect, the Director-General would no  doubt wish to take account of the considerations  behind the proposal and not make reclassifications on  a large scale.
(107) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  confirmed that opinion and thanked the delegate of the  United States of America for her understanding of his  question,
(108) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) said that, in  the light of possible proposals to reduce the budget,  it would be advisable to examine the summary by  object of expenditure in Annex V of the programme  and budget to see if cuts could be made in the major  items. Staff costs being a major item, he supported  the proposal of the delegate of the United States of  America.
(109) The proposal of the United States delegate,  seconded by the United Kingdom delegate, was  adopted by 7 votes to nil with 3 abstentions,  The meeting rose at 12.50 p.m.  SIXTEENTH MEETING
10 November 1954 at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman : Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Australia)  ITEM 7.2 OF THE AGENDA: PRELIMINARY CONEIDERATION  OF THE DRAFT PROGRAMME AND BUDGET FOR 1953-36,  BEFORE THE OPENING OF THE SESSION (continued)
(1) The CHAIRMAN announced that, before the  meeting could proceed to the discussion of the  draft resolutions, a few general questions re-  mained to be cleared up. He therefore  asked if the delegate of Israel wished to  comment on the general matter of subventions.  - 745 -   VI-16
(2) Mr. AVIDOR (israel) said that, after the advice  offered by the Assistant Director-General, he was  prepared to leave the matter to the Administrative  Commission.
(3) The CHAIRMAN then opened discussion on  document 8C/ADM/5, Report of the External Auditor,  requested by the delegation of the United States of  America at the seventh session of the General  Conference.
(4) Miss LAISE (United States of America)suggested  that, as the External Auditor was not present, the  Committee's Report should contain a recommenda-  tion to the Administrative Commission to look into  the question of whether the Secretariat should  exercise a more detailed financial control over the  funds allocated by contract to the Commission for  the Scientific and Cultural History of Mankind. The  question had arisen for the 1953 period, but, as the
1955-56 programme also included a contract to that  Commission, it would be desirable to consider it,
(5) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) asked whether  the discussion was confined to that international non-  governmental organization, or whether it referred to  à general principle. In the Directives governing  relationships with non-governmental organizations,  there was a new clause which provided for the audit-  ing of their accounts. Did the delegate of the United  States of America wish to extend her recommenda-  tion about the International Commission to non-  guvernmental organizations as a whole?
(6) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that this was a con-  tract subject to normal legal controls, but the United  States proposal aimed at a more detailed control  than would otherwise be secured.
(7) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) asked for a more  detailed account of how the funds had been used  hitherto.
(8) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  pointed out that the remarks of the United States  delegate, in so far as they related to the 1955-56  budget, referred to a point concerning which the  auditor had made certain observations. He suggested,  therefore, that the deiegate should put the question  to the Administrative Commission. Not only was the  Commission better placed to deal with it, but also it  was a question referring to a document not presented  to the Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget
(9) The CHAIRMAN remarked that there would be  two further opportunities of raising the question:
(1) during discussion of the auditor's report to the  Administrative Commission, (2) during discussion of  the annual report of the International Commission by  the Programme and Budget Commission (document
(10) Miss LAISE (United States of America) explained  that she felt a need to go into the question at that  stage for the reason that the Committee ': willingness  to support the project in the programme would depend  on a satisfactory solution of the question of financial    ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  control over it, Payments in 1854 had been exces-  sive and a satisfactory agreement between Unesco  and the Commission would have to be found.
(11) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) supported the  point of view expressed by the delegate of the United  States of America and asked for « reference to it in  the report.
(12) The proposal of the United States delegate,  seconded by the delegate of the United Kingdom, was  adopted by 11 votes with 1 abstention.
(13) The CHAIRMAN opened the debate on the ques-  tion raised by the United Kingdom delegate as to the  proportion of manuscripts produced within the  Secretariat, compared with those prepared under  contract,
(14) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) said  that there was not a single Unesco publication on  which the Secretariat did not do some work, The  amount done fluctuated between two :_:tremes:
(1) Booklets emanating from departments, such as,  The Social Sciences , No. 12 in the series, Unesco  and its Programme, which was issued jointly by the  Departments of Mass Communication and Social  Sciences. The Assistant Director-Ganeral further  mentioned an illustrated publication entitled, Tambien  las montafias se mueven, for the idea of which the  Department of Mass Communication was wholly res-  ponsible and which had been brought out entirely by  the Documents and Publications Service. Such  publications were entirely the work of the Secretariat,
(2) Publications commissioned under contract from  one or more writers; e.g., Culture and Human  Fertility, and Economics and Action, by Mr.  Mendés-France. At this end of the scale, the  Secretariat's contribution was smallest, but it did  nevertheless play an active part by deciding on the  work plan, the subject of the publication, the public  for whom it is intended, and the author. In addition,  Unesco put the manuscript into shape and undertook  all the other technical and commercial operations  leading up to the final publication of a book.
(15) With regard to the other two questions raised to  which answers had not been given, Mr. Maheu said  he would take the opportunity of mentioning that the  document dealing with the expenditure for 1952 by  categories of expenditure had been requested from  Paris and had not yet arrived. Also, no reply had  yet been received about the way the other Specialized  Agencies arranged for the payinent of the Secretary  of their Staff Association,  ANNEX VI, PAGE 230 OF THE PROPOSED PROGRAMME AND  BUDGET
(16) Miss LAISE (United States of America) wished  to know: (1) whether experience had led to any  adjustment in the standards since the 1952 pro-  gramme; (2) to what degree the standards were  co-ordinated with those of the United Nations and  Specialized Agencies; and (3) whether  the size and number of posts in local field  staff would not be considered?  - 746 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VI-16
(17) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Programme  and Budget), in answer to point 1, replied that stan-  dards in the proposed budget were in most cases  lower than those for 1953-54, particularly in respect  of consultants! fees and contracts. There was a 12%  reduction, compared with the 1953-54 budget, in the  average cost of the standard page of contractual  printing; a lower rate had been used in computing  consultants! fees, etc.
(18) In answer to the second question, the United  Nations and Specialized Agencies all had the same  system of established posts, local field staff, etc.,  based on the same staff regulations. On the third  question, Mr, Rao replied that a list of posts had not  béen included in the document for reasons of brevity,  but it was available. Figures, for instance in the  case of the Science Co-operation Offices, had been  calculated on the basis of exact needs. In paragraph
197 of the chapter on Natural Sciences there was a  list of local field staff, without details of the salaries  paié to each, although the total number was given.
(19) Miss LAISE (United States of America) asked  when Technical Assistance (8C/5 Annex VIII) would  be discussed.
(20) The CHAIRMAN explained, in agreement with  the Assistant Director-General, that this, being an  activity external to the House, could be more suitably  discussed after the general discussion of the results  of the Committee's work, of the balance of chapters,  and of the Executive Board's document on the future  programme,
(21) Miss LAISE (United States of America) felt that  it was important for the meeting to examine Techni-  cal Assistance forthwith, from the point of view of
1ts administration, and also in terms of future  programmes,
(22) Mr, MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) re-  called that the United States delegation had expressed  a wish at the opening of the session to consider the  proposed programme ard budget in the light of the  previous programme and budgets and of the Executive  Board's Report on the Remodelling of the Future  Programme of Unesco. By that procedure, the  Committee would be keeping within Unesco's own  field of activity, whereas the technical assistance  programme was a project in which Unesco merely  participated in a Joint undertaking by the United  Nations and all the Specialized Agencies. The con-  nexion between the technical assistance programme  and the programme and budget proper was thus less  immediate, and on that account less instructive than  the relationship between the Proposed Programme  and Budget for 1955-56 and the Remodelling of the  Future Programme,  ITEM 7.3 OF THE AGENDA: DISCUSSION OF DRAFT RESOLUTIONS  SUBMITTED BY MEMBER STATES
(23) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  suggested that the draft resolutions of Member States  be examined by the Committee one by one as the Exe-  cutive Board finished its discussion of each and put    forward its recommendations, These resolutions  had been classified by the Secretariat in document  DIV/55, which indicated the departments concerned,  They fell into the following categories: (1) draft  resolutions affecting a single department; (2) those  affecting two or more departments; (3) those relating  to Unesco's general policy and sometimes going  beyond the purview of the Secretariat. If the Commit-  tec was agreeatle to taking the resolutions in that  order, the Secretariat was ready to answer any  questions regarding draft resolutions affecting the  Department of Education,
(24) The CHAIRMAN, speaking as delegate of  Australia, suggested that the Committee recommend  the submission to the Director-General, in future  years, of resolutions On the programme at the time  when it was being prepared, rather than when it was  being adopted.
(25) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) supported the  Chairman. In ecrlier years, when the programme  was being ouilt out of nothing, those resolutions had  been more urgently needed, but at the present stage  there was not £0 much excuse for last-minute  novelties, particularly since, with a biennial Confer -  ence, Member States had ample time in which to  submit their views. It was advisable to revise the  rules and time -limits for the presentation of new  resolutions.
(26) Mr, JUNANKAR (India) proposed taking the idea  a step further by asking the Director-General himself  to invite Member States to send their suggestions  before he formulated his proposals.
(27) Mr. LEE (United States of America) endorsed  the observations by the delegate of Australia, the  United Kingdom and India. Before taking up the  resolutions ore by one, he wished to remark that from  the point of view of the desired concentration of the  programme, even if scm? of the resolutions contri-  buted to it, a considerable number would work against  it. He thought that a good many might be referred to  the Secretariat for consideration in the future  execution of the programme.
(28) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) be-  lieved that the Director-General would favour the  principle of the delegate of India's proposal. But  such requests for action should not, as in this one,  assume the form of draft resolutions, because in that  case the Secretariat might find its hands tied and  difficulty in including these requests with the others  in a general scheme, It would be better for Member  States to make simple suggestions,
(29) Mr. LEE (United States of America)agreed with  the view exp! essed by the Assistant Director-General
(30) It was decided to inciude it in the report.  Draft Resolutions relating to Education, Nos, 28, 37,
38, 39, 40 and 53  DR/28: Amendment to resolution 1,122 (paragraphs
99 and 100)
(31) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) said that the  - 747 -   vI-16 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON  Executive Board had not recommended this resolution,  because there was already a project on the question  in the programme.
(32) Mr. LEE (United States of America) suggested  that the resolution be referred to the Secretariat for  information.
(33) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) seconded the  proposal.
(34) Agreed,  DR/37: Promotion of health education
(35) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) explained that  the Board would prefer this draft to be reworded, in  order to make it clear that it was a continuation of  work already being carried out by the Organization.
(36) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  remarked that this draft resolution merely instructed  the Director-General to do something he was already  doing. He suggested the Committee should propose  a method of implementation, seeing that the Secre-  tariat was already, and would continue to be, in  contact with the World Health Organization.
(37) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) reminded the  meeting of the danger of adding to school curricula,  Would the delegation of Uruguay not be content to ask  for the project to be studied by the Secretariat, as  there was no suggestion of a method of work and no  budgetary study.
(38) Mr. RANIERI (Uruguay) accepted the suggestion  of the delegate of the United Kingdom,  DR/38: Teaching of the Charter of the United Nations  and the Constitutions of the Specialized Agencies
(39) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) informed the  Committee that the Executive Board recommended  this project for approval.
(40) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education  said his Department was already engaged with the  subject, although not necessarily and exclusively in  the particular form of urging the teaching of the  Constitution.
(41) Mr. LEE (United States of America) said that,  in the absence of elaboration, the resolution was no  more than a reaffirmation of what was being done. It  should be referred to the Secretariat,
(42) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) supported the  proposed resolution,
(43) It was put to the vote and adopted by 7 in favour,
2 against and 3 abstentions,  DR/39: Parallel use of Spanish and English in the  Americas
(44) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) explained the  Board's view that, since there was no assurance that    PROGRAMIIE AND BUDGET  other American States were in agreement with this  proposal, which concerned them, further study of it  was necessary.
(45) Agrend.  DR/40: Free education at all levels
(46) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) informed the  Committee that this had not been recommended by the  Executive Board, which felt the Organization should  proceed by stages,
(47) Mr. RANIERI (Uruguay) said that draft resolu-  tion No. 40 submitted by his delegation related ex-  clusively t> official State-controlled education.
(48) Mr, SOMMERFELT (Norway) agreed with the  view of the Executive Board and proposed its adoption,
(48) Agreed.  DR/53: Work by children of school age
(50) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) said that the  Board recommended adopting this resolution.
(51) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) asked for its  budgetary implications.
(52) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education  said that these would be postage expenses for letters  to the International Labour Office in Geneva.
(53) It was agreed to recommend adoption,  DR/55: Teaching about human rights
(54) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) informed the  meeting that it had been recommended for adoption by  the Executive Board.
(55) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education  remarked that the first part of the resolution was  addressed to Member States, and was a standard re-  quest on which Unesco was as active as possible, The  second part, addressed to the Director-General,  referred to the field of social sciences.
(56) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) ex-  plained that the Department of Social Sciences had in  mind to conclude a contract amounting to $5,000 in
1955 with the International Political Science  Association for a study onthe teaching of human rights.
(57) Mr. CABOUAT (France) recalled that in the  course of the discussion on the programme and budget  of the Department of Social Sciences, his delegation  had proposed the restoration of an activity which had  been included in the first version of the proposed  programme and budget, He considered that the  Uruguayan draft resolution was similar to the French  proposal and his delegation was accordingly ready to  support it.
(58) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt), with reference  - 748 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET V1-16  to the expression "rule of law" in (a) of the last  paragraph, asked: what law?
(59) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  thought it referred to the international acceptance of  human rights. The Secretariat had only outlined a  work plan based upon à provisional interpretation of  a text it had not composed. The final interpretation  would have to be given by the Commission.
(60) Mr. LEE (United States of America) said it was  very difficult for the Secretariat to make a detailed  work plan. He abided by his earlier views and  proposed that the resolution should be given a low  priority.
(61) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) called the  attention of the meeting to the fact that the concept  "rule of law" was in Article I of the Constitution of  Unesco, and was, apart from that, a general theme  of humanistic discussion, and therefore not an  entirely practical proposition.
(62) Mr. BOW (Canada) hoped that during the hurried  examination of the resolution the priorities allocated  to projects already in the programme would not be  changed.
(63) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences) said that a study under (b) would be dif-  ficult, but in respect of (a), the Community Develop-  ment project (8C/5, paragraphs 211-213 of the  chapter on Social Sciences) might be extended to  include a comparative study of the economic, social  and political elements referred to, That might best  be achieved through the independent non-gover unental  organizations envisaged.
(64) Mr. CABOUAT (France) explained that his  delegation accepted the Uruguayan proposal as  qualified by his own interpretation of it and by the  work plan. He then read the passage he had wanted  to see included in chapter 3 (Social Sciences) of the  draft programme and budget:  "B. Community Development
213-bis Democratic institutions in development  programmes  In most development plans it is essential to pro-  vide not only for the application of democratic methods  but also for the gradual introduction of the machin-  ery of democratic government. To what extent can  à particular form of democratic government existing  in one country be transposed to another country, and  what would be the consequences if it were? Experts  with a special knowledge of comparative politics are  at the present moment giving more and more  detailed thought to these problems, Unesco should  help in directing these studies so as to satisfy more  fully the needs of countries undergoing rapid develop-  ment. For this purpose the International Political  Science Assoctation will be asked to organize, in  conjunction with its 1955 Congress, a symposium on  this problem, at which reports would be submitted  dealing with several different parts of the world,
1955 - $4,000 (Contract)
(65) Mr. Cabouat added that he hoped this work  would help to facilitate the task of the Secretariat in  interpreting the Uruguayan proposal.
(66) Mr. RANIERI (Uruguay) accepted the French  delegate 's interpretation.
(67) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) did  not think that the interpretation given by the French  delegation facilitated the Secretariat's task; it only  complicated it,
(68) The CHAIRMAN asked the meeting to consider  the French delegation's proposal recommending the  adoption of draft resolution 35, subject to the inter-  pretation given by Mr, Cabouat.
(69) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel), seconded by Mr.COWELL  (United Kingdom), asked for the resolution to be taken  in two parts, as the first part had no budgetary  implications.
(70) In view of what the Assistant Director-General  had said, Mr. CABOUAT (France) expressed his  willingness to withdraw his motion if it was felt that  it complicated the task of the Secretariat,
(71) A vote was taken on this offer, which was  accepted unanimously.
(72) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences) pointed out that (a) would have to precede  any work under (b), which, she thought, must be  deferred.
(73) Sub-paragraph (a) was put to the vote and  carried by 3 in favour, 2 against and 6 abstentions.  Sub-paragraph (b)
(74) Mr. LEE (United States of America) wisned this  point to receive a low priority and be deferred for the  moment to the Secretariat.
(75) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) seconded the proposal.
(76) Adopted by 9 in favour, none against, one  abstention,  Draft resolutions relating to the Natural Sciences  Nos. 1, 9, 18, 29, 32, 35, 42, 44, 47, 51, 54, 56,
(77) Mrs, PECSON (Executive Board) informed the  meeting that the Executive Board recommended the  resolution, on the understanding that Member States  in Europe would be consulted before a meeting of  experts was called,
(78) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) questioned the  Board's decision. Was this new activity really  necessary? The matter was now being discussed  in the United Nations. Two international organizations  should not be working at the same time in the same  field, and he proposed that the project be deferred.  - 749 -   VI-18
(79) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) seconded the pro-  posal by the delegate of the United Kingdom for  deferment.
(80) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) supported the proposal of  the delegate of the United Kingdom,
(81) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) said  that the Director-General had forwarded the text of  the French draft resolution to the Secretary-General  of the United Nations. The Secretary-General's  reply, dated 4 November, had reached Montevideo on  the seventh and read as follows:  "I appreciate your thoughtfulness in consulting me  on the draft resolution relating to European research  on problems connected with radio-isotopes which has  been submitted by the French delegation to the Unesco  Conference. It would naturally be my hope that  Unesco's action under such a resolution would make  the fullest contribution to any wider programme for  the development of peaceful uses of atomic energy  that may be undertaken through the United Nations;  for this reason, some reservation may be desirable  at this stage regarding the detailed programme for
1955 suggested in the second paragraph of the draft.  Apart from this comment, I can only say that intensi-  fied research on problems connected with the produce -  tion, distribution and use of radio-isotopes is clearly  very desirable and that Unesco 1s the international  body which should promote and co-ordinate it,"  {82) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) explained that during his stay in New York  he had discussed the question in detail at United  Nations headquarters. The prospective International  Atomic Agency would undertake responsibility for  reiations with non-governmental organizations,  governments and regional bodies. He had encoun-  tered no opposition to a meeting of European experts  as proposed by the French delegation,
(83) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) proposed that  the resolution should be referred to the International  Advisory Committee on Research in the Natural  Sciunces, which could advise what part Unesco should  take in this field. That would mean that the  resolution could only be taken into account in the
(84) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  pointed out that the International Advisory Committee  on Research in the Natural Sciences had the duty of  advising the Director-General not only on the plan-  ning of future programmes but also on the execution  of current programmes.
(85) If the Conference approved the proposal before  them, the Director-General would be in a position to  consult the Committee at its Milan meeting.
(86) Inreplyto Mr. Avidor, who seemed to have under-  stood that the Secretary-General of the United Nations  meant that adecision on the Unesco scheme at this stage  might be premature, Mr . Maheu said that the Secretariat  did not take the letter in that sense but as indicating that  the Secretary-General of the United Nations hoped that  Unesco would take action but in concert with that tobe  taken by the United Nations. The last sentence of the  passage he had read left no doubt on that point,    ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET
(87) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) remarked that  there was no specific reference in the letter to the  proposal to create an International Atomic Agency,  which was due to come before the General Assembly  of the United Nations shortly, That was an important  consideration both for DR/1 and for DR/9.
(88) Mr. LEE (United States of America), while de-  ferring his judgment until the United Nations Repre-  sentative had been heard on the subject, still felt a  lot could be done in the exploration of the use of  radio-isotopes in medicine and agriculture. He  added a hope that, while the meeting was a regional  one, it would not exclude experts from outside the area,
(89) Mr. CABOUAT (France) felt he should give the  Committee some explanation of the advantage, from  the international and inter-governmental standpoint,  of research undertaken in Europe on the medical,  radiological and agricultural applications of nuclear  energy. The suggested European laboratory for  nuclear research would be less costly than the Inter-  national Institute for Atomic Research, but would still  be too heavy a financial charge for a government to  shoulder by itself,
(50) The Council of Europe had decided to contribute  up to 500,000 francs towards the financing of the  project, a sum equivalent to that which the French  delegation was asking Unesco to provide, In addition,  the Pasteur Institute, the Institut National d'Hygiène  and the Italian Government had indicated their inten-  tion of making funds available, The aim of the French  proposal was not to launch a new activity but to assist  one already in being; the idea was to place the  experience of Unesco and its Secretariat at the  disposal of this branch of science, If the Unesco  budget could not support the expense, the Organization  might at least provide certain professional services  in the early stages.
(81) Finally, the delegate of France confirmed that,  whatever the Committee and the General Conference  decided, account would be taken of the subsequent  decisions taken by the United Nations.
(92) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) proposed two amendments  to the resolution: (1) that the meeting of experts be  convened in 1956 instead of 1955, in order that it  might receive the comments of the Secretary-General  of the United Nations; (2) he supported the United  States proposal that experts from outside Europe  should also be invited to the meeting.
(93) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) suggested that,  as draft -esolutions 9 and 32 were connected with  this one, they should all be examined before a  decision was taken on any of them.
(94) Mr. CABOUAT (France) thought that at the  moment it was difficult to instruct the Secretariat in  too much detail as to who should participate in the  project and how it should be financed, and also  pointed out that they were dealing with 1956 and not
1955. The point was that they did not yet know what  the General Assembly of the United Nations would  decide.
(95) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) signified agreement.  - 750 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET
(96) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  thought it would be useful, in connexion with these  three draft resolutions, for Mr. Auger to tell the  Committee about the conversations which had taken  place currently at United Nations headquarters in  New York, Before the meeting of the Committee  presided over by Dr. Ralph Bunche, the Director-  General had informed the Secretary-General of the  United Nations that Unesco held itself at his disposal  for taking part in the examination of the scient ‘fic  aspect of the problem of the utilization of atomic  energy for peaceful ends. Accordingly Mr. Auger,  himself a distinguished atomic scientist, had gone to  New York and spent a fortnight attending the meetings  of the Bunche Committee. He had left New York ten  days past, but he was fully abreast of the decisions  being taken there. Since his departure the question  of the utilization of atomic energy for peaceful pur-  poses had come before the First Commission of the  General Assembly. The proposal put forward by  Mr. Cabot Lodge (United States of America),currently  under consideration by the First Commission, did not  appear to differ much from what information in Mr.  Auger's possession had suggested.
(97) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) began by reminding the Committee that  atomic energy had already been in use for peaceful  purposes for ten years but that the military applica-  ticn of this branch of science had prevented the  detailed discussion in international orgamzations of  its peaceful uses.
(93) However, a discussion on the subject had been  inaugurated at the current session of the General  Assembly of the United Nations and the principal  project, presented by seven countries, provided for:
(1) a Sp. cialized Agency which, on coming legally into  being, would enter into relations with the United  Naticns in exactly the same way as WHO, FAO,  Unesco itself and the other agencies had done before  it; (2) a scientific conference to be convened by the  Secretary-General of the United Nations. On the  programme io be submitted for its approval, the  Secretary would be able to consult Unesco, FAO and  WHO, It was probable that the Director-General  would be approached by the Secretary-General regard-  ing the preparatory work for the Conference, which  was likely to take place in August 1955 and, like any  other international conference of such importance,  would require some months of preparation, beginning,  probably in January 1855, The intention was that the  Conference should be attended both by government  delegates and also by various experts and scientists  invited personally. There would be a Preparatory  Committee for the Conference, which would be  empowered to enter into direct consultation with  Unesco on matters within the latter's province.
(89) These circumstances invested draft resolutions
9 and 32 with great importance as concerned the  Director-General's future action. The uranium  reactors which generated electricity also gave off  radio-active material from which the public must  be protected, If the Committee decided on  the means to be given the Director-General for  meeting the request of the United Nations, the  intentions of these draft resolutions would be  automatically satisfied.    VI-16
(100) Mr. Auger added that he had made a very pro-  visional estimate which might be sufficient to cover  the expenses envisaged for 1955-56.
(101) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board), speaking on  draft resolutions 9 and 32, said that, in the light of  Mr. Auger's information, the Board had taken the  two resolutions together and decided to recommend  DR/9 proposing collaboration with the United Nations  on the use of atomic energy for the benefit of man.  With regard to DR/32, the means of collaboration  prepared should be reviewed in the light of arrange-  ments currently being made by the United Nations.
(102) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) felt the decision  taken about resolutions 9 and 32 was clear. On No.1  there was a good proposal.
(103) Mr. LEE (United States of America) asked  whether the meeting could not dispose of DR/1 at this  stage, and refer Nos. 9 and 32 to the Programme  Commission, on the assumption that they would be  referred to working parties which would include  people more qualified to discuss them in the light of  information arising out of United Nations action.
(104) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) thought that DR/9,  which merely authorized the Director-General to  extend the co-operation of the Organization to the  United Nations, need hardly be referred io a working  party. The Committee should recommend the  resolution to the Programme and Budget Commission.
(105) The delegates of INDONESIA and ISRAEL agreed.
(106) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) said that the  purpose of the resolution (DR/9) was to authorize the  Director-General to continue the co-operation already  undertaken with the new agency envisaged. Was it  specifically necessary to make such a resolution?
(107) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  informed the United States delegate that a representa-  tive of the United Nations would be present at the  General Conference and would be able to give al!  necessary information on the results of the discussions  currently proceeding in New York, With regard to  the point raised by the delegate of the United Kingdom,  the Secretariat did need such a resolution and he  would draw the delegate's attention to the last clause  of draft resolution 32.
(108) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) explained that the proposed budget for the  whole project was $26,500 in 1955 and $10,000 in
1856. Protection of the civil population, which was  the subject of draft resolution 32, was only a part of  the whole and could be reckoned at about a fifth in  budgetary terms.
(109) Mr. LEE (United States of America) was in  favour of the spirit of the resolution, The formulation  could be left until later.
(110) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel)thought resolution 9 should  stand even if 32 fellbecausa it was an invitation to all Mem-  ber States, and even as a declaration it had some force.  - 751 -   Vi-16 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET
(111) The CHAIRMAN pointed cut that Mr. Auger had  said that in approving DR/9 the meeting would be  implicitly approving DR/32 as well,
(112) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom), on DR/9,had  two minor drafting amendments to propose: line 1,  after "Conference" insert "believing in the urgent  necessity of action in disarmament, invites all  governments to join together in a common action as  a result of which efforts..."; and line 2, after  "armaments", insert the words "could be diverted".
(113) The CHAIRMAN said the Committee could  mention that a Draft would be accepted if revised as  suggested, but the meeting should not be asked to  accept drafting alterations.
(114) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) wanted the resolution  approved as it stood.
(115) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) accepted the  Chairman's remark. He had merely not wanted to  give the impression that the United Kingdom had  agreed to the unrevised version.
(116) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  agreed with the delegates of India and the United  States of America that the Committee should decide  on the general lines of the resolutions and the cor-  responding estimates without regard to details of  wording. The drafting would be done later.
(117) The CHAIRMAN indicated that a note to this  effect could be included in the Committee's report.
(118) Put to the vote, draft resolution 9 was adopted  unanimously.
(119) The CHAIRMAF said that the meeting was not  in a position at that stage to adopt resolution DR/32  with its budgetary implications. It could merely  say that it considered the proposal to belong to the  type of activity Unesco was called on to carry out.
(120) Mr, LEE (United States of America) agreed  with that view, considering that at that time some  other agency besides Unesco might be making a  working plan.
(121) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  recalled tha. the Indian text (document 8C/DR/9) had  - 752 -     no financial estimate attached to it but that prelimi-  nary costings had given a figure already suggested by  the Secretariat.
(122) À vote was then taken on the proposal by the  delegate of the United Kingdom, seconded by the  delegates of Israel and India, to refer draft resolution
32 to the Secretariat and recommend that it should be  implemented in the light of the report made by the  United Nations. This proposal was adopted by 6 in  favour, 3 against and 3 abstentions.
(123) The proposal by the delegates of the United  Kingdom, Norway and Mexico to defer draft  resolution 1 was then taken up.
(124) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) thought that  any essential activities could be undertaken by the  Relationship Agreement between the United Nations  and Unesco.
(125) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  pointed out that the proposed operation was condition-  al and depended on the decisions taken later by the  General Assembly of the United Nations. However,  if no financial provision were made, no activity would  be possible before 1957.
(126) Mr. CABOUAT(France)shared the view of the As-  sistant Director-General and suggested that the resolu-  tion be adopted subject to the two amendments proposed  by the delegate of Israel (paragraph 92).
(127) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) agreed with the  delegate of France.
(128) A vote was taken on the proposal by the dele-  gates of the United Kingdom, Norway and Mexico to  defer draft resolution 1 until the United Nations had  dealt with the question. It was rejected by 4 in  favour, 8 against and no abstentions.
(129) The proposal by the delegates of Israel, France  and Egypt to adopt the resolution with the two clari-  fications made by the delegation of Israel - that the  framework of the project should be widened and  meetings held when the Secretariat considered it  most practical - was approved in principle,  The meeting rose at 6,55 p.m.