IV-2 PROGRAMME AND BUDGET COMMISSION  SECOND MEETING
18 November 1954 at 10 a.m.  Chairman : Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland)  ITEM 8.3 OF THE REVISED AGENDA: CONSIDERATION OF THE  REPORT OF THE ADVISORY COMMITTEE AND GENERAL  DISCUSSION OF THE DRAFT PROGRAMME AND BUDGET FOR
1935-34 (documents 8C/5, 8C/5 Coir. and Add., 6C/PR3/20 to 22,  &C/BUD/1)
(1) The CHAIRMAN recalled that, in accordance  with the decisions taken at the first meeting, the  three vice-chairmanships had been allotted to the  Soviet Socialist Republic of Byelorussia, which had  nominated Mr, Imreyko; to the Union of Burma,  which had nominated Mr. Tha Hla, and to Ecuador,  which had nominated Mr. Martinez,
(2) He announced that the Commission's officers  had, on the basis of proposals received the previous  day, established its working parties with the  following membership:
(3) 1st working party (reorganization of the  Department of Mass Communication): Belgium,  France, German Federal Republic, Iran, Italy,  vapan, Mexico, Pakistan, Poland, Switzerland,  Thailand, USSR, United Kingdom, United States  of America, Uruguay.
(4) Approved,
(5) 2nd working party (decentralization of the  Organization's activities): Brazil, Egypt, German  Federal Republic, India, Indonesia, Israel, Italy,  Japan, Liberia, Pakistan, Spain, Turkey, Union  of Burma, United Kingdom, United States of  America, Uruguay,
(6) Approved, with the addition of Chile, at the  request of that country's delegation,
(7) 3rd working party (international regulations):  Argentina, Chile, Czechoslovakia, France. India,  Italy, Laos, Liberia, Netierlands, Philippines,  Poland, Spain, Switzerland, United Kingdom.
(8) The CHAIRMAN having suggested that one of  the Arabic-spaking countries should be added to the  list, Lebanon was included,
(9) The membership of the 3rd working party, with  the addition, at his request, cf the delegate of  Burma, was then approved,
(10) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive  Board) said that hitherto the preparation of pro-  gramme and budget had been the joint responsibility  of the Executive Board and the Director-General.  Document 8C/5 was the first which had been  prepared by the Director-General under the    amended Article VI, 3 of the Constitution. The  Executive Board's comments had already been  published in document 8C/5 Add. 1, and, accordingly,  in presenting the proposed programme and budget,  he wished only to select certain points for emphasis,
(11) The Executive Board considered that the  programme and budget and the report on the re-  modelling of the future programme of Unesco  (document 8C/PRG/13) were closely related. The  Director-General's original draft programme had  been discussed by the Board in March 1954, and  during its November 1953 meeting it had given  him preliminary ideas on remodelling, It had  proposed that he should endeavour in 1955-56 to  complete certain minor proj_:ts, make an initial  test of technical aid to Member States, and evaluate  past work, provided that the Conference approved  the ideas in the remodelled programme, He  wished to pay a tribute to the Director-General  and the Secretariat for having within a short time  substantially transformed the programme in the  light of the Board's suggestions. He hoped that the  Conference would find the document as great an  improvement on previous ones as had the Board,  A great deal was owed to the brilliance of the late  Mr. Hodson, whose death was a loss both to Unesco  and to the United States of America,
(12) The programme for 1955-56 placed increasing  emphasis on the activities in, and consequent  responsibilities of Member States. The view had  been expressed during discussions in the Board  that many National Commissions were not as  effective as they might be, A document setting  out the Board's views on that question and on  decentralization was in preparation,
(13) In connexion with activities in Member States,  he wished to draw special attention to technical  aid - a term which he, personally, hoped would be  replaced, since it was too often confused with  technical assistance, Technical aid was an integral  part of Unesco's programmne, Unlike technical  assistance, it was not related to social and econo-  mic needs and was not restricted to underdeveloped  countries; there was in fact a two-way traffic  between the developed ard the underdeveloped  countries, It was not a new activily, but the Board  wanted more emphasis to be given to requests and  contributions from Member States,
(14) Finally, the Executive Board had had some  diffic- ty over the form of the budget. The  seventh session of the General Conference had  instructed the Director-General and the Executive  Bosrd, ja preparing and discussing the 1855-56  programme, to take account of the report of the  Working Party on the future programme and  - 272 -   PROGRAMME AND  development of Unesco and also of the comments of  Member States, The Working Party had recom-  mended establishment at two levels and, in the  absence of adverse comment from Member States,  the Board had felt bound by that recommendation,  The method of working out the budget was the  Director -General's responsibility and had the  Executive Board's approval, The Board also  supported the whole programme and budget, in-  cluding the lower and higher level,
(15) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that the  Secretariat considered that the main task of the  Conference was to decide on the kind of pro-  gramme it wanted for 1955-56 and for subsequent  years. The problems, although different, werc  closely linked, but he proposed at the present  time to comment only on the draft programme and  budget for the coming two years.
(16) The Chairman of the Executive Board had  pointed out the respective responsibilities of the  " Director-General and the Board, and had re-  ferred to the two important meetings of the Board:  in November 1953 to discuss policy and in March
1954 to discuss details. He (the Director-General)  worked in close co-operation with the Board, con-  sidering it in the Organization's interests to take  the Board fully into his confidence at various  stages, and he looked on the Board as the Secre-  tariat's partner in the work. The practice oJ  giving the Director-General final responsibility  for deciding what should be included in the pro-  gramme and budget was a good one, since sucb  decisions were difficult to make in a commitiee.
(17) In presenting the programme and budget to  the Conference the Secretariat had Jeliberately  raised certain questions requiring a decision by  the Conference on future policy and trends, In  making recommendations for the preparation of  the programme and budget for 1857-58 the  Conference would do well to bear in mind a  comment, made by one of the delagates, that it  would be necessary to think clearly on the  machinery for developing programmes and  activities in various doms'ns between the eighth  and ninth sessions of the (ieneral Conference,
(18) During the general debate on the Director-  General's Report, many delegates had urged  consultation with Member States in the formutive  stages of the programme and budget and also  with groups of States linked by common bonds  and purposes, and he was ready to take all  possible action in that direction. A general  consideration in the minds of those preparing  the programme and budget was that Unesco was  a member of the United Nations family; and  references would be found ihroughout the documents  to requests and observations from the Economic  and Social Council and cthur bodies of the United  Nations and also from other Specialized Agencies,  Far from infringing Unesco's sovereignty, co-  operation with the family of the United Nations  would increase efficiency and achievements,
(18) As well as consulting the Executive Board  on the preparation of the programme, the Director-  General had consulted many Member States. He  had visited seven States in euch of the continents  BULGET     - 275 -  COMMISSION IV-2  of Latin America and Asia, and had been in touch  with European governments frequently and with the  United States Government at the time of the  meetings of the National Commission in September  of the previous year. The Chairman and other  members of the Executive Board had accompanied  him on some of his journeys and many valuable  ideas and suggestions had been acquired, The  impression gained was that the main trend of  Unesco's work in the future must be in thedirection  of responding to the reqiu’'rements of Member  States, not only by technical aid, but in the  permanent services, He instanced Mernber Govern-  ments in so-called underdeveloped areas who had  stipulated that technical aid should not be given at  the expense of permanent services. Many govern-  ments too had made it clear that their needs went  beyond the concept of economic aid, mechanized  civillzations or increasing competence in technology,  and some had indicated that their highest priorities  lay in the cultural and spiritual fields,
(20) Ar important characteristic of the programme  and budget was the division into two parts -  originated by the Assistant Director-”:us "al.  The Secretariat would welco™2 any comments  and suggestions for improvements, In that  connexion he emphasized that the two parts were  not isolated, but had a mutual bearing and value,  Terminology had presented difficulties, and it  had not always been possible to be as precise as  was desirable. "Permanent Services", for example,  were not fixed and might be subject to change; the  use of the word "project" sometimes led to confusion,
(21) With regard to technical nid, he stressed that  it was a service given to countries which might be  either recipient or donor countries under the Unit=d  Nations programme of technical assistance. The  system of Special Projects had brought out two  ideas to which he was opposed: ‘irst, that response  to needs of Member States should lead towards  regionalization; and secondly that the new emphasis  would detract from the intellectual activities that  were the lifeblood of the Organization, The  stabilization of Part 1 of the programme and the  increase of Part 3 was a provisional measure for  a period of two years and subject to revision,
(22) Some progress had been made in the important  direction of concentration, though no extreme  measures had been proposed. The Secretariat was  ready to accept guidance from the Conference,
(23) Finally, a cautious move was being made  towards evaluation, which hitherto had been  supported more in theory than in practice. Evalua-  tion was a difficult process, needing a careful and  planned approach; if the Conference supported the  idea, the Secretariat would present further  proposals to the ninth session.
(24) The Director-General then turned to the  separate chapters of the programme and budget.
(25) Education. One of the chief problems was  that of education for international understanding;  everyone believed in its importance, but the difficulty  was to put it into practice, In that connexion he  referred to a recent meeting of the Expert Com-  mittee on Education for International Understanding  and Co-operation, whose report would shortly be  available, and to a proposal made by the United   IV-2 PROGRAMME AND  States delegate for the establishment of an inter-  departmental committee headed by the Director-  General, He himself was not opposed to the idea  but did not wish 10 commit himself before it had  been discussed,
(26) Another important problem, and onz on which  many Member States had asked for assistance, was  that of the school curriculum. There was a need to  study machinery for advising countries on a con-  tinuing service basis.
(27) With regard to fundamental education, two  centres had been established with technical  assistance support, and Unesco had now taken  over the main responsibility under the normal  programme. He was opposed to establishing others,  on an international basis, because the principal  areas where language and homogeneous culture  provided a basis for success had been exhausted.  There was no objection, however, to centres being  formed nationally or by two or more countries with  common interests, Emphasis had also been placed  on the development of Associated Projects,
(28) An important development in fundamen:a  education was assistance to Member States 1  training rural tzachers.
(28) Other activities were co-operation witn the  United Nations in community development; literacy  campaigns based on methods of teaching adults to  read ard write, and assistance to countries in  the preparation of reading material; support for  the Unesco Institutes in Germany; assistance for  educational rèconstruction in Kore. and for Arab  refugee children,
(30) Natural Sciences. Unesco was interested in  co-operating with the United Nations in the use of  atomic energy for peaceful purposes. A full report  would be submitted later.
(31) It was also hoped to find a way of providing  assistance to the International Geophysical Year;  and the importance of oceanography and marine  sciences had been stressed,
(32) With regard to tie Arid Zone work, contrary  to certain views, it was Unesco's and not FAO's  responsibility, since the project was one of scien-  tific research,
(33) Social Sciences. The need to increase  geographical coverage in non-governmental  organizations, while of concern to all departments,  had been especially stressed with regard to the  Department of Social Sciences.
(34) Cultural Activities, Co-operation was en-  visaged with the Department of Education on  reading material, museums and libraries. Emphasis  had been placed on cultural exchanges and trans-  lations. An important achievement was the success-  ful conclusion cf two conventions: one on Copyright  and the other on the Protection of Cultural Property  in the event of Arried Conflict. Of especial  interest to the former was the acceptance of the  Convention by the United States of America, which  had not ratified the earlier Berne Convention on  copyright,
(35) Mass Communication. One of the most  difficult problems facing the Department was  whether its objectives should be aid to Member  States in developing their own means of mass  communication or publicity for the activities and  - 274 -     BUDGET COMMISSION  objectives of Unesco and the United Nations family,  The Secretariat would welcome “aiscussion of the  question, Mr, Tor Gjesdal, w'w it was hoped would  accept the position of Director of the Department,  would be present at the end of the week and would  assist in this discussion.
(36) One of the paths it wa: hoped to explore was  extension of the Department's work with the United  Nations, Much of the work on international under-  standing was carried out in the Department of  Mass Communication, and it was also fostering  understanding and attach.ment to the principles  of Human Rights throug}1 publicat:ons, press  services, and radio.
(37) Exchange of Persons. Great success had  been achieved in workers! travel and exchanges,  Useful collaboration was established with the pro-  gramme departments.
(38) Technica' Assisiance, The Conference was  being asked for the first time to undertake a  detailed review, as a result of the Economic and  Social Council decision that that part of the  programme, althoug3 financed by the "nited Nations,  should be evaluated by the participating organizations  rather than by the Tachnical Assistance Board or  the Economic and Social Council. The Conference  was therefore responsible for reviewing its quality  and its usefulness to Member States in the same way  as if it were financed by the Organiza'ion,
(39) Publications. Sales were rising and were  expected to reach $100, 000 for the current year as  against $73,000 in 1953, Improved criteria were  being used for selection and review of i ablications,
(10) Administration. It had been suggested that  the new tzndency ir the programme would result  in a new basis for organizing the Secretariat, The  Director-General, however, could not foresee a  change in the present organization based on intei-  lectual Jisciplines, Views had been expressed on  the need for co-ordinating machinery to handie  large programmes, but the Secretariat was quite  capable cf planning special machinery and  organizing task forces when needed. Such task  forces, however, could only be set up under the  existing organization and he hoped that the Con-  ference would not bind the Secretariat too rigidly  in the matter of administration,
(41) Budget. After deciding on a programme, the  next step wis to provide the funds for executing it.  The higher and lower levels had been concaived by  the previous Conference and net by the Director-  General ard he hoped the practice would not be  followed in future years. It wes difficult to relate  the two levels to priorities, because the programme  was envisaged as a whole and it was impossible to  elimirv.te projects on the basis of a level, He bad  tried to retain the old-established continuing services  at the lower level, but projects could be exchanged  between levels if required,
(47) Finally, the Secretariat, working as a team,  was responsible for the programme and budget and  ‘would endsavour to implement the wishes of the  Geaeral Conference and of individual States, It  was proud of the programme but ready to accept  criticism or new proposals. The Secretariat had  worked loyally and would continue to do so in an  effort to belp the Conference in its decisions,   PROGRAMME AND
(48) In conclusion, it had been an inspiration to the  Secretariut to hear the statements at the plenary  meetings on the enlarged vision and new hope which  Member States saw in Unesco's work, Those views  would be before the Secretariat as it pursued its  work in collaboration with Unesco's Members.
(44) Mr, GARDNER DAVIES (Australia) (Chairman  of the Advisory Committee on Programme and  Budget) presented the Committee's First Report  {document 8C/BUD/1), and drew attention to the  main recommendations and conclusions which might  help the Programme and Budget Commission in its  work.
(45) The Committee, which had devoted the past  fortnight to a detailed examination of the Director -  General's programme and budget proposals for
1855-56 and the draft resolutions submitted by  Member States, had unanimously agreed that the  lucid drafting of document 8C/5 had made it a very  much better working document than in previous  years, The Committee also wished to express its  warm appreciation of the co-operation it had re-  ceived from tae Secretariat, Collaboration hetween  the Secretariat and delegations had been helped by  the widening of the Committee's terms of reference  to enable it to deal with the programme and budget  aspects of the proposals at the same time.
(46) While the Committee had noi taken the total  size of the budget into consider ation, it had, in view  of the introduction contained in the programme and  budget document, recommended that the Conference  should not fix the total budget until it had received  the Administrative Commission's report on the  scale of contributions for 1955-56 and on methods  of financing the budget.
(47) The Committee had borne in mind the need tc  examine: projecis in tha light of the Directcr-  General's conception of the programme as tran-  sitional leading to increased concentration of the  Organization's activities. It had already prepared  a report on the Executive Board's proposals on the  remodelling of the future programme,
(48) On the basis of the Director-General's opinion  that the division of projects into "higher budgetary  level" and "present budgetary level" did not imply  a differentiation in priority, the Committee had  agreed to make recommendations to the Conference  on the relative importance of various projects and  of the craft resolutions submitted t, Member States,  The projects were divided into four catagories:
(49) Category |. Projects to which the Committee  attributed priority, with a total appropriation of  $533,377. The projects listed constituted a small  tart of the Organization's major activities, but the  Summary Records indicated that the Committee  attached importance to certain major spheres of  activity for which it was not considered necessary  to specify priorities.
(50) Category 2. Prc)ects approved by the Com-  mittee for the 1955-56 programme, but for which  no special recommendation was made, Draft  resolutions of Member States retained for inseriion  in the 1955-56 programme represented a total  expenditure of $99, 217,
(31) Category 3. Projects which could be approved  only to the extent that funds provided exceeded the     BUDGET COMMISSION IV-2  appropriations required to operate the first two  categories; those projects represented an expendi-  ture of $32), 752.
(52) Category 4. Projects to te dropped or deferred  until later programme and budge! periods: $218, 669.
(53) The Committee had also recommended the  following two draft resolutions, which had consider-  able budgstary implications: acceptance of the  Governmant of India's invitation for the ninth session  of the General Conference to be held in New Delhi,  which would involve an additional budgetary provision  in 1956 of $314,042; the use of Russian as a working  language of the General Conference, entailing an addi-  tional expenditure of $141,350 in 1955-56 if the  Conference were held in New Delhi.
(54) The Committee also drew attention to the  difficulties caused by belated submission of draft  resclutions by Member States, and recommended  that Member States be asked in future to submit the  substance of their proposals in time for them to be  taken into account by the Director-General when  framing the draft programme.
(55) Other decisions were: to recommend thet two  working parties should be set up by the Programme  ana Budget Commission, the first on the geaeral  question of decentralization of the Organization's  activities and the serond to examine the adminis-  trative structure of the Department of Mass Commu-  nication; and to express the hope that the Organiza-  tion would endeavour to evaluate the results obtained  in various fieids of activity as a basis for future  planning.
(56) The Committee considered that the proposed  programme and budget was well balanced in respect  of appropriations among chapters and between the  two s~ctions into which each chapter was divided;  the do:ument also maintained the continuity of the  Organization's activities and met the ‘frequently ex-  pressed wish for concentration of aciivities, In  the last respect it was roted that the number of  projects had been redu-ed from 242 in 1953-54 to
(57) In conclusion, the report was intended to help  the Pr gramme and Budget Commission in its work  and, al*nough it reported only the Committee's  recommendations, the Summary Records contained  many usvful discussions and gave the reasons on  which the recommendations were based. It was  hoped that the Programme and Budget Commission  would not need to repeat the Committee's examina-  tion, but would be able to accept the programme as  recommended, taking advantage of experts in the  various delegations represented to assure itself  that tbe work plans for each project were the most  efteciive and economical possible.  (SE) The CHAIRMAN felt sure that the tremendous  amount of work done by the Advisory Committee  would greatly facilitate the Commission's work.
(59) He thought, however, that it would be easier  to define the tasks of the various working parties  in more detail after the general discussion.
(60) Mr. SPILHAUS (United States of America)  said that the Advisory Committee had already worked  through the programme and budgei in great detail,  and his impression was that the majority of projects  - 275 -   IV-2 PROGRAMME AND  had already been approved by the plenary meetings  of the Conference, He therefore proposed that che  Programme and Budget Commission should .ot  attempt to go over the same ground as the Advisory  Committee, but should limit its discussion to those  projects needing substantial modification either in  substance or in terms of the budget. If Member  Governments would submit recommendations on  precise points in the programme and budget before  noon on 22 November, the work of the Commission  would be speeded up considerably,
(61) The time thus saved should be used by working  parties composed of specialists and experts within  the Commission, which, with the help of the  Secretariat, would coucentrate on improving and  refining the programmes approved by the Commis-  sion,
(62) The procedure outlined would not restrict  general debate, but would direct it towards matters  of most concern to Member States,
(63) Mr. BERNAL JIMENEZ (Colombia) asked the  Chairman to allow him to speak after a vote had  been taken on the United States proposal, which he  supported, He added that he wished to speak, what-  ever the result of the vote,
(64) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) supported  the proposal made by the United States delegate;  he considered it useless to go into the detaiis of  projects which had already been carefully examined  by both the Executive Board and the Adviscry  Committee.
(65) It seemed to him that the moment had come to  leave purely material matters aside and (jet down  to basic problems, in order to determine what  methods and procedure should be adopted in order  to achieve the aims proposed.
(66) Mrs. PINTO DE VIDAL (Uruguay) supported  the United States proposal, as she thought it would  save time, She recalled that the Chairman had  explained on the previous day that it would take the  Commission thirty-five meetings to complete its  study of those matters, which would mean that, at  the end of the General Conference, it would still  not be in a position to make its report unless it held  nignt meetings, She believed that, if it approved  the United States proposal, the Coramission would  have more time to deal with the section relating to  education, for instance, to which the Director-  General had alluded.
(67) Mr, VERONESE (Italy) was surprised that the  United States delegate, by suggesting the establish-  ment of new committees of experts, should wish to  return to a working method which had already been  severely criticized at the seventh session of the  General Conference, and which was also contrary  to the previous day's decision to limit the number  of working parties to three,
(68) Moreover, although decisions taken by smali  groups might carry a certain weight, on questions  of such great importance they could not be binding  upon all delegations,
(69) The delegate of Italy was therefore in favour  of holding a general discussion immediately  - 276 -     BUDGET COMMISSION  before the vote on the United Staies proposal.
(70, Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) was of opinion that  thore was much to be gained by setting up working  parties to examine the programme,
(71) He hesitated, however, to agree entirely with  the United States proposal, for it seemed to him that  the Programme and Budget Commission should  discuss not so much specific points in the draft  programme, but rather broad plans of campaign  designed to meet both the requirements of Uneaco's  own particular fields of activity and the felt needs  of Member States.
(72) Otherwise, he did not see that there was any  contradiction between the United States proposal  and the Chairman's suggestion that the Commission  briefly survay the problems which were of interest  to all delegations,
(73) The CHAIRMAN thought that it would clarify  the debate if the United States deleg te would explain  his ideas on the new working parties which he wished  to see set up,
(74) Mr, SPILHAUS (United States of America),  referring to the statement of the delegate of Italy,  said that "working parties” was perhaps an ill-  chosen term; he had in mind groups of experts or  consultants, His idea was to eliminate discussion  on projects on which delegates were in agreement  and to restrict it to those which Member ‘states  considered needed alteration,
(75) Mr. NIELSEN (Denmark) supported the proposal  of the delegate of the United States of America,  but wished to raise two points, First, the time  limit suggested for submitting proposals was too  short: he would prefer to see it extended to the  following Monday or Tuesday. Secondly, where a  delegation had not itself raised a poirt, he would  like to know whether that delegation could participate  in discussion if the point were raised by another  delegation.
(76) Mr. SHARIF (Pakistan) shared the United  States delegate's wish to save time ard help the  Commission, and would support any practical method  of achieving that end. The setting up of additional  working parties, however, would preclude the  participation of small delegations, who were already  finding difficulty in manning the existing working  parties, A more practical procedure would be for  the Commission to give moral approval to projects  on which there was general agreement and limit  discussion to those on which delegates had raised  specific questions,
(77) Mr. MENDIS (Ceylon) supported the United  States proposal for the very reason that his was a  small delegation - consisting of two members. If  discussion were limited to specific points raised  by Member Governments, his delegation's task of  participating as widely as possible in the proceedings  of the Conference would be facilitated,
(78) Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS (United Kingdom)  was opposed to the hasty abandonment of well-tried   PROGRAMME AND  practice; there were more important considerations  than time. The Executive Board and the Advisory  Committee had done very valuable work, the results  of which appeared in the documents before the Cown-  mission; but a general discussion in the Commission  would give the opportunity for exchange of ideas and  the impact of minds, which was so important in an  organization such as Unesco, With regard to the  use of experts, he did not agree with the implication  that arceptance of a project was any less a matter  for experts than was refinement of a project,
(79) Finally, he considered that the United States  proposal should have been discussed with the  Chairman and submitted to the General Committee,
(80) Mr. BERNAL JIMENEZ (Colombia) pointed  out that, if the United States proposal concerning  the formation of groups of experis were approved,  it would still be necessary to have a general dis-  cussion before a final decision could be taken; he  did not believe that the United States delegate had  intended otherwise, If the proposal were not  approved, he thought that the general discusaion  shouid take place forthwith,
(81) Mr. Bernal Jimenez recalled that the  Director-General, with the wisdom of experience  and the impartiality which were characteristic  of him. had reviewed the different chapters of the  programme and had made extremely interesting  comments, So also had the Chairman of the  Executive Board. Both had agreed that the whole  programme should fall within a budgetary frame-  work in which programme activities were subordinate  to whatever criterion the General Conference might  adopt with regard to the budget, There then arose  a point which he wished to explain to the Comraission.
(82) He had understood that the General Conference,  at its present session, was to choose betweea two  budgetary solutions: the first, which might be  called the static solution, would consist of main-  taining the present level; ard the other, the dyna-  mic solution, would result in an increase in the  total budget figure, due to contributions from new  Member States. From what he had hes. d, however,  he gathered that that was not the case, and that the  dynamic solution was the only one to be taken into  account, Perhaps there was only a difference of  opinion as to when that dynamic solution should  take effect.
(83) The CHAIRMAN pointed out to the delegate of  Culombia that a question of procedure, and not the  basic problem, was at present under consideration;  he would therefore request hira to restrict his  remarks to procedure.
(84) Mr. BERNAL JIMENYZ (Colombi.) had  understood - as the Chairrnan himself had said -  that a general discusaion could be held, without a  vote being taken on any proposal; and indeed it  seemed to him that various delegates had already  referred to questions of a general nature, It would  therefore be advisable to decide definitely whether  the general discussion was to be postponed, or  whether the United States proposal regarding  procedure war to he discussed and put to the vote  as soon as possible.  BUDGET     COMMISSION IVv-2
(85) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) feared that the  establishment of working parties might lead to a  dividing up of the work, with the serious conse-  quences that had already been noted (particularly  at the Mexico session of the Conference),
(86) He therefore seconded the proposal of the  delegate of Italy,
(87) Mr. LAUGIER (France) agreed with the delegate  of the United Kingdom that the delegate of the United  States of America had not submitted his proposal  in accordance with the correct procedure,
(88) The French delegation was strongly opposed  to increasing the number of expert committees to  deal with questions which had already been debated  on many occasions or were sufficiently important to  be discussed by the General Conference in plenary  meeting,
(89) As it was extremely difficult for small dele-  gations to be represented on many committees, Mr,  Laugier suggested that the Commission approve  only the first part of the United States proposal, to  the effect that delegations should inform the Com-  mission's Officers of the subjects which they would  like to have discussed, or the points on which they  wished to speak,
(90) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) dealt separately with  the two aspects of the United States proposal.
(81) If the discussion were limited to questions  suggested by the delegations, the Commission might  lose the benefit of the information which the Secre-  tariat could supply on each item of the programme,
(92) If, however, the United States proposal were  accepted, in order to gain time, could not a date  be fixed for the discussion of the first part of the  programme and another date for the second?
(93) With regard to the second aspect of the proposal  concerned, Mr, Florkin was sure that the United  States delegate intended the experts to meet after,  and not before, the general discussion, in order to  help the Secretariat to determine methods of action,
(94) Mr. KABIR (India) said that, if the following  interpretation were correct, he would support the  proposal of the United States delegate:
(05) 1, There was to be a general discussion of the  whole programme and budget, bearing in mind the  statements of the Chairman of the Executive Board  and the Director-General, which would provide for  the meeting of minds on broad issues, The Belgian  delegate's proposal would not be out of place,  because, as the Director-General had explained,  the two levels were integrated parts of the whole  programme,
(96) 2. To prevent repetition of discussion, the  Commission would concentrate on aspects where  differences of opinion and misunderstandings needed  clarification.
(97) 3. As the United States delegate had himself  explained, there was no question of setting up working  parties: the intention was, after approval of the pro-  gramme and budget by the Commission and the Con-  ference, to bring to theSecretariat's notice any  specific issues in which delegations were interested.
(98) The Conference had never intended to commit  the Secretariat to a rigid programme and, in making  - 277 -   IV-3 PROGRAMME AND  improvements and modifications - provided they  did not conflict with the general outline and prin-  ciples - assistance from experts would be invaluable,
(99) Finally, he supported the delegate of Denmark's  proposal to extend the time limit for submission of  proposals by delegates.
(100) Mr, SANDOVAL VALLARTA (Mexico)  observed that one of the main difficulties with which  the Organization had always had to contend was the  disparity between the funds available and the pro-  gramme, In the present case there was a disparity  between the amount of time available and the pro-  gramme, Considering that the United States  proposal would reduce that disparity, he would  support it and moved that it be put to the vote,
(101) Mr, FAUBLAS (Haiti) suggested that, before  a vote was taken, the two parts of the United States  proposal be separated, since, as the French  delegate had pointed out, at least one part deserved  consideration.
(102) In view of the short time available to the  Commission, Mr, ARSENAULT (Canada) did not  see what advantage there could be in reconsidering  projects which had already been thoroughly  examined, He would vote therefore for the  proposal of the United States delegate,
(103) Mr. ANGELL (United States of America)  thanked the delegate of India for his clarification,  He approved the proposals of the delegate of  Denmark and said that he would have no objection  to the discussion of the programme in two parts,
(104) Mr, FLORKIN (Belgium) reminded the  meeting that he nad suggested fixing two dates for  discussion, corresponding to the two groups of  chapters,    BUDGET COMMISSION
(105) The CHAIRMAN sugested that noon on  Monday, 22 November, be fixed as the deadline for  delegations to submit their requests to speak on the  first three chapters - Education, Natural Sciences  and Social Sciences,
(106) Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS (United Kingdom),  on a poirt of order, said that a vote should first be  taken on his proposed amendment, which was as  follows: first, the Commission should proceed with  a general discussion; and, second, the United  States delegate's proposal should be referrea to the  General Committee of the Conference to consider,  in the light of the discussion, its practical applica-  tion and its effect on the time schedule of the Con-  ference,
(107) A vote was taken, and the result was 23 votes  in favour, 23 votes against, with 6 abstentions,
(108) Mr. KABIR (India) pointed out that the first  part of the amendment was not in fact amending any  proposal, since no objection had yet been made to the  holding of a general discussion.
(109) It was agreed that the second part of the amend-  ment was the point on which a decision was needed,
(11¢) Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS (United Kingdom)  reformulated his proposal as follows:  “That the United States delegate's proposal be re-  ferred to the General Committee of the Conference  to consider, in the light of the discussion, first, its  practical application and, secondly, its effect on the  tirne schedule of the Conference, "
(111) The proposal was adopted by 25 votes to 19  with 4 abstentions.  The meeting rose at 12.45 p.m.  THIRD MFETING
18 November 1954 at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman: Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland)  ITEM 8.2 OF THE REVISED AGENDA: CONSIDERATION OF THE  REPORT OF THE ADVISORY COXMITTEE AND GENERAL  DISCUSSION OF THE DRAFT F ROGRAMME AND BUDGET FOR
(1) Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS (United Kingdom)  thanked the Chairman and the Executive Board for  the excellent documentation supplied to the Com-  mission and the Director-General for the extremely  helpful statement he had nade at the morning  meeting, and commended the report of the Advisory    Committee, Assuming that the Commission was  realy to start on a general discussion, he would  make some brief comments.
(2) Firstly, the opinion of the United Kingdom  delegation with regard to the proposed programme  was based on the fact that it considered that the  Unesco Secretarial, in association with the Member  States, was trying to carry out the aims to which  the Organization was pledged in its Constitution.  In that connexion, he thought that, if success was  to be achieved, the most important contribution  - 278 -