NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE VII-2  SECOND MEETING
15 November 1954 at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman : Mr. KABIR (India)  SUBMISSION OF CANDIDATE'S NAMES FOR THE POST OF  CHAIRMAN OF THE HEADQUARTERS COMMITTEE AND FOR  ONE POST OF VICE-PRESIDENT OF THE CONFERENCE
(1) The CHAIRMAN said that the item on the agenda  for the meeting was the choice of a candidate for the  post of Chairman of the Headquarters Committee,  so far held by Mr. Parra-Ferez, the delegate of  Venezuela, who was absent, He added that the  delegate of Brazil, Professor Berredo Carneiro, had  been nominated, If Mr, Carneiro were elected, he  would have to resign from the Vice-Presidency of  the Conference,
(2) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) agreed to  stand for the post of Chairman of the Headquarters  Committee and to resign from the Vice-Presidency  of the General Conference provided it were  understood that Mr, Parra-Perez, who was unable  to attend the Conference, would resume his post  afterwards,
(3) Mr. BADINI CONFALONIERI (Italy) hoped very  much that the delegate of Brazil, whose experience  would be invaluable to the work of the Headquarters  Committee, would be replaced as Vice-President of  the General Conference by the delegate of one of the  other Latin American countries. That would, he  thought, be logical and fair from the point of view of  geographical distribution.
(4) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) suggested that the  Chairman should remind the Committee of the  "numerus clausus" system adopted by the  Headquarters Committee and should enumerate the  countries represented on the Committee, He thought  that would save time,
(5) Mr. BERNAL JIMENEZ (Colombia), who was  speaking on behalf of his delegation and, he thought,  expressing the general feeling of all the Latin Ameri-  can delegations, thanked Mr, Carneiro for resigning  from the Vice-Presidency of the Conference and  accepting the post of Chairman of the Headquarters  Committee,    {6) He also thanked the delegate of Italy for  expressing the hope that the post of Vice-President  of the General Conference would continue to be held  by a member of one of the Latin American  delegations.
(7) He proposed, as Vice-President of the Conference,  the delegate of Chile, a country which had only  recently joined Unesco but which was a centre of  culture and peace in Latin America,
(8) The CHAIRMAN thought that suggestion useful,  though somewhat premature: the Committee must  firstnominate the candidate for the post of Chairman  of the Headquarters Committee,
(9) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) was elected  by general agreement. The Chairman reminded the  meeting of the unofficial proposal submitted by the  Colombian delegate, ‘which could, he thought, now  be considered off cial,
(10) Mr, PHOTIADES (Greece) supported the  Colombian delegate's proposal to nominate the  delegate of Chile to the post of Vice-President of  the Confe.ence,
(11) Mr. Vissallo Rojas (Chile) was nominated by  general agreement,
(12) On behalf of his delegation, Mr. VASSALLO  ROJAS (Chile) agreed to stand for the post of Vice-  President of the Conference, and assured the  Committee of his earnest intention to fulfil his  task sincerely and energetically, in pursuit of the  ideal of international freedom and brotherhood.
(13) The meeting rose at 4.15 p,m.  - 873 -