Uu-17  the United States delegate for adjournment of the  debate on this question.
(219) For the information of the delegate of the  USSR, 1 would point mut that the Rules of Procedure  require that motions which have precedence shall  be voted on after one representative has spoken in  favour, and one against. As this has been done,  the President must take a vote on the motion. We  shall now vote on the motion of the delegate of the  United States of America, that the debate on the  Director-General's proposal be adjourned until the  plenary meeting tomorrow.
(220) I call upon the delegate of the USSR.
(221) Mr, SOLDATOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) (Translation from the Russian): Mr.  President, I evidently misunderstood the position,  since in fact I was speaking rot on a point of order,  but in reply to the speeches which were made here  on the subject of our proposal. Hence no objection  PLENARY MEETINGS  was raised by the S- viet delegation to adjourning  the debate on this subject,
(222) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  We shall now take a vote on the motion for adjourn-  ment proposed by the delegate of the United States  of America,
(223) The motion for adjournment is adopted by 48  votes to 0, with 4 abstentions.
(224) A vote will now be taken on the new resolution
41, dealing with adoption of Spanish as a working  language of the Executive Board.
(225) Resolution 41 is adopted by 48 votes to 0,  with 2 abstentions.   The meeting rose at 7.35 p.m.  SEVENTEENTH PLENARY MEETING
10 December 1954 at 10.45 a.m.  President: ‘Ar. ZAVALA MUNIZ (Uruguay)  CONTENTS  Consideration of draft resolution concerning the use of the  Russian language at the Executive Board ( documents
8C/DR/124 rev. and 126). 801 2 000 0 0 0 10 6  Consideration and adoption of the Report of the Administrative  Commission (continued) . . . PEN  Consideration and adoption of the Report of the Programme  and Budget Commission (documents 8C/PRG/30 and
8C/BUD/6 rev. 2) uv vt vv tt tte 4 tee eee  Need for making Unesco a global organization (documents
8C/DR/4 and Add., BC/DR/120 and 8C/DR/128).
(1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  The General Coramittee announces that the newly  elected Executive Board will hold its first meeting  and elect its Chairman at 9. 30 tomorrow morning,  in Room 2,  CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION CONCERNING THE USE  OF THE RUSSIAN LANGUAGE AT THE EXECUTIVE BOARD (docu-  meats 8C/DR/124 rev. and 128)
(2) I cali upon the delegate of India.
(3) Dr. MUDALIAR (India): Mr. President and    - 210 -  fellow delegates: the draft resolution that my  delegation has the honour to submit for the consi-  deration of this plenary meeting, runs as follows:  "The General Conference authorizes the Director-  General, subject to the approval of transfers for  this purpose by the Executive Board, to provide the  necessary services of interpretation and translation  from and into the Russian language to the extent  compatible with the efficient operation of the Board  for the effective participation of any member of the  Executive Board in the work of the Board. "
(4) When we adjourned late on Thuraday, it was  felt that a document should be made available in all   PLENARY  the languages to the delegates concerned so that they  might have the opportunity of studying it closely and  noting its implications. We had then come to face  two questions. The first was: should the Russian  language, in some form or other, or interpretation  {nto the Russian language, be made available at  meetings of the Executive Board? The second and  equally important question was: whac would be the  international implications if this suggestion were  accepted?
(5) My delegation has given considerable thought to  both these questions, and we feel that we may submit  to you our tentative conclusions on each, With  regard to the use of Russian in meetings of the  Executive Board, we note that, on the recommend-  ation of the Administrative Commission, the General  Conference has already accepted the proposition  that Russian should be one of the four languages for  the General Conference. This important conclusion  has been arrived at and accepted at a plenary meeting.
(6) The next point for your consideration is that, at  the time when the Administrative Commission  recommended this, and the Plenary Conference  accepted the position, it was evident that no such  conclusion could apply to meetings of the Executive  Board, The elections to the Executive Board had  not then taken place, and it would certainly not have  been appropriate at that stage, even if it was not  premature, to consider any other aspect of the use  of the languages of the Executive Board. Since then,  the new Executive Board has been constituted, and  my delegation knows that there is one representative  who speaks only Russian and would therefore not be  in a position to understand any of the .hree languages.  From a purely practical point of view, therefore,  avoiding all sentiment, my delegation felt that, if the  Executive Board were to work smoothly and satis-  factorily, and that if every member of the Board was  to contribute his best to the conclusions that are to  be arrived at, it was necessary, nay, inevitable that  some means must be provided to interpret, for the  sake of the member concerned, the only language  with which he was familiar. At the same time, we  were certainly concerned about the implications, in  so far as the programme and budget activities are  concerned, We also noted that, at conferences  where intergovernmental organizations met, the  Russian language was used for this purpose in inter-  pretation and translation, and the document that has  been circulated to all the members will bear  evidence of the fact that it has been sc used. Apart  from this we came to the conclusion that we should  study the financial implications of the use of the  Russian language. Here may I say that we  appreciated the attitude of the Russian delegate, who  accepted our position that it must, for a period of  tw J years, be a limited use of Russian in regard  to interpretation and translation from and into that  language.
(7) The original estimate of the Secretariat was  that this would amount to a sum ery near $49,000,  I am not in a position to state what the exact figures  would be for the two-year period, but I can state  with some amount of confidence, having noted the  international implications when this procedure was  adopted in a sister organization, that it will be  considerably less than the figure quoted above.  - 211 -     MEETINGS u-17  We have now been trying to see how this amount  can be satisfactorily provided. On looking at the  composition of the Executive Board, we find that,  while a sum of $12,000 was provided for and  accepted by the plenary meeting, two delegates  have now been added to the original figure of twenty.  In actual analysis we found that the Executive Board  consists of the same number of members from the  various regions, except for one region. The  number of members from Latin America, from  North America, from the Middle East, from South  East Asia and from Africa below the Sahara desert,  is exactly the same as in the twenty member  Executive Board. We therefore assume that the  travel cost of these delegates would not be more.  We then come to the two additional members and  we find that these are from Member States which  are as near to Headquarters as is possible, and  therefore, from that one point of view, we have  deduced, on a rough calculation, that the saving  will be something like $7,000, at least,
(8) 1 wish also to refer to another document  submitted for the approval of this plenary meeting;  it is 8C/ADM/ 35 Corr,, which says: "That every  effort shall be made by the Executive Board, in  co-operation with the Director-General, to reduce,  as far as poss.’ le, the number and length of  sessions of the Executive Board”. I am speaking  as a member of my delegation, and not as a member  of the new Executive Board, and it is my delegation's  view that, if this resolution is accepted by the  Executive Board, as it ought to be, there will be at  least a 10% saving on the total amount budgeted for  the Executive Board. We feel that it cannot be less,  and I am sure that the Executive Board, having  listened to the debates on this question in the  Administrative Commission, and having seen the  nature of the resolutions that have been passed by  the plenary conference, will certainly take every  step possible, I do not anticipate what the final  saving will be, but I think I shall not be guilty of  an error in calculation if I say 10%, which comes  to about $15,000. On these calculations, therefore,  we feel that a sum approximately between $20, 000  and $22,000 will be available from the budget  provided for the purpose of the functioning ot the  Executive Board,
(9) The Director-General referred to another point,  and that is that he will probably be able, at the  conclusion of the year, to transfer certain funds  necessary for this purpose. We feel that these  funds will be comparatively small in amount for the  reasonc that we have stated and we are satisfied  that, so far as the financial implications of this  proposal are concerned, they will in no way inter-  fere with programme and budget activities, nor  even with those anticipated savings which are likely  to be devoted to other purposes, as suggested in  the Programme and Budget Commission. When  therefore the Director-General put forward the  suggestion, my delegation in a rough and rather  rapid mental calculation felt that Le was not  performing the trick of a magician, nor presenting  us with something that was hidden by the Secretariat  to be suddenly brought forward 2s a surnrise at  this Conference, but that he was dealing with  practical suggestions for a very useful measure.   I-17 PLENARY
(10) I have dealt with the practical implications of  this proposal. There are, however, some intangible  but nevertheless highly significant results which  cannot be equated in currency values. My delegation  has attended every Conference since the inception of  Unesco, and it is our firm conviction that at no  time has there been in evidence such abundant  measure of goodwill and appreciation of diverging  points of view. The resolutions we have passed are  eloquent testimony to the fact that the spirit and  ideals cf Unesco have been fully borne in mind, and  that here, in your beautiful city of Montevideo, Mr,  President, as well as in your State, we have sown  seed which in the fullness of time will grow into a  big tree, shedding its shelter upon all of us and  yielding the luscious fruits of peace, goodwill,  concord and harmony to be shared by all the  people of the world,
(11) It is in a spirit of humility and hope taat I move  this resolution for the gracious acceptance of this  assembly.
(12) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call upon the delegate of Korea,
(13) Mr. PAIK (Korea): Mr. President, fellow  delegates, many able speakers have already spoken  from this rostrum, giving reasons why we cannot  and must not add Russian to the working languages  of the Executive Board, The Korean delegation  wish to make one or two observations on this question.  The problem has arisen this year because of the  election of a Russian delegate to the Executive Board.  The addition of Russian to the working languages of  the Board would commit this Conference to the  perpetual membership of one of our Russian-speaking  people on the Executive Board. The Korean delegation  does not believe that we can make such a commitment,  for the General Conference may elect any qualified  member to the Executive Board from among the  representatives of the Member States, Furthermore,  when we elect a person who does not or is not willing  to use the existing working languages of the Executive  Board, the Conference should not provide in each  case for the language he wishes to speak; that would  create a most undesirable precedent. The Korean  delegation therefore opposes the proposal to add  Russian to the working languages of the Executive  Board of the Organization.
(14) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call upon the delegate of Chile,
(15) Mr. ZAMORANO HERNANDEZ (Chile)  (Traaslation from the Spanish): Mr. President,  although it would have been timely and helpful to  comment on the reasons leading to the adoption of  English, French and Spanish as working languages,  we feel that it would be rather difficult to do so at  this moment. Such a study would naturally have  helped us in reaching a decision on the request made  by the delegates of the USSR and supported by the  distinguished delegate of India.
(16) In our opinion, every language can provide a  channel to the main stream of culture, and no  language has a monopoly of what might be called the  vitamin of culture. Nevertheless, certain persons    MEETINGS  and groups maintain that Latin and Greek, for  instance, are essential to any person of culture.  Though such assertions may be heard indulgently,  there can be no doubt that they are false. This is  not the place for an analytical discussion of this  contention, which touches on a fundamental  problem of the philosophy of culture, but it is  worth mentioning that any given people or civilization  that has meditated deeply on the eternal problems  of man and his position in the universe, has always  converted its thinking into the fabric of its own  language.
(17) Various arguments have been brought forward  in support of the adoption of Russian as a working  language; reference has been made to the millions  of dollars to be coniributed by the peoples speaking  that language; it has also been argued that Russian  should be adopted for the convenience of Russian-  speaking members of the Executive Board, etc. In  our opinion, these are not factors to influence our  decision. In the first place, there is one important  fact to be taken into account: Russian is a working  language of this Conference, In the second place,  what matters is that the millions of children, young  people and adults who speak this Slav language  should have the opportunity of learning directly  about the ideals of this international Organization,  If the proposal in question will ensure that these  people become familiar with our ideas and ideals,  I feel that we should support the proposal for the  good it will do. In the third place, there is, in my  opinion, another very strong argument: the accept-  ance of this proposai would initiate that process of  cultural unification in which we are all interested.
(18) I may add that the above could also be achieved  through the use of other languages, such as  Chinese and Japanese. | need not refer to the  budgetary implications of the proposal, as the  Indian delegate has already dealt with them in detail,  For all these reasons, and many others which might  be set forth at this Conference, the Chilean dele-  gation supports the proposal for the adoption of  Russian as a working language of the Executive  Board.
(19) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Spanish): I call upon the delegate of the Union of  Burma.
(20) Mr. THA HLA (Union of Burma): Mr.  President and fellow delegates, I wish to point out  one or two small implications that should be very  seriously considered :n relation to this draft  resolution presented by the delegation of India. We  have had a very good session which is coming to an  end, and Unesco from the beginning has meant  international co-operation. The phrase has issued  many times from very many mouths, and fittingly  so. Do we mean it? On behzlf of the delegation of  Burma, ! suggest that, if we do not support the  draft resolution put forwsrd by the delegate of  India, we shall seem to be contradicting our own  words. We speak continuzlly of international  understanding and mutual gcodwill - how can we  expect mutual goodwill if we contradict ourselves  by ignoring the contribution of one of the most  important countries, important because it can bring  - 212 -   PLENARY  so much to the enrichment of our ideas and to the  achievement of our aims. Only a few days ago we,  fellow delegates - you and I - of our own free will  chose the delegate of the USSR to serve on the  Executive Board. In other words, we want their  contribution to the Executive Board. By contribution  I do not mean money - of which however they are the  second largest contributors; we do not mean that,  we mean the contributions of culture and science.  We have proved by our act that we want these  contributicns and, if we now decide not to have  Russian on the Executive Board, we shall again be  contradicting ourselves.
(21) As good and reasonable people, our acts and  our words should be logical and, from the practical  point of view, would it be wise to ignore the contri-  butions to science, culture and education that might  be forthcoming from the Soviet member of the  Executive Board?
(22) Another consideration, that of finance, will be  dealt with, has been very fully dealt with by the  mover of the draft resolution, and by the Secretariat,
1 confine myself to general considerations, We have  asked the Sovie! Union to serve on the Executive  Board and I feel, logically, we want to hear its  views and we want to receive its contributions.
(23) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call upon the delegate of Japan,
(24) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) (Translation from the  French): Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen,  during the discussions about Spanish in the Admini-  strative Commission, 1 said that the use of a language  was a question of internal convenience to be deter-  mined by the provisions of the Executive Board's  Rules of Procedure. ! was whole-heartedly in favour  of the use of Spanish in the Board, but I addea that  the General Conference should not impose rules on  the Board. Although the Board is responsible to the  General Conference, I consider that the two bodies  should be able to arrange their procedure as they  think fit and should avoid unnecessary interference  with one another. For that reason, I then proposed  that the General Conference should simply make a  recommendation to the Executive Board, ieaving the  latter to decide what languages it should use at its  sessions. I should like to say the same with regard  to the question now under consideration. 1 greatly  appreciate the way in which the Indian delegate has  dealt with the question of languages; since this  question is a practical one and the object of the  proposal is simply to facilitate the work of members  of the Board, ! fully agree that, if we are to meet  tomorrow with our Russian colleague, we should be  able to find a means of making things easier for him;  but I feel that the decision should rest with the  Executive Board.
(25) If the delegate of India is willing to amend his  proposal, therefore, I shall certainly support it;  but if he is unwilling to do so, I shall be obliged to  abstain from voting,
(26) The amendment I should like to propose is as  follows: "The General Conference authorizes the  Director-General, should the Executive Board  so decide, by making the necessary transfers,  to provide ...",  - 213 -     MEETINGS 1-17  {27) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Spanish): Since the Indian delegation has not, as I  gather, accepted the amendment proposed by the  Japanese delegate, the discussion of the Indian  delegate's proposal is still open.
(28) If no other delegate wishes to speuk, I shall  put the proposal to the vote.
(28) The Indian delegate's proposal is adopted by
25 votes in favour, 16 against and 14 abstentions.
(30) I call upon the delegate of the Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics.
(31) Mr. SOLDATOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) (Translation from the Russian): Mr.  President, the Soviet delegation voted for the Indian  delegation's proposal that interpretation and trans-  lation from and into Russian should be provided for  in the proceedings of the Executive Board, as it  feels that the adoption of this resolution will create  the required conditions for the Soviet Union's  regular participation in the work of Unesco's  Executive Board, The Soviet delegation also wishes  to state that, when the draft budget for 1957-58 is  being prepared, the Soviet Union will again raise  the question of the adoptivii of Russian as a working  language of Unesco's Executive Board and will  submit this question to the ninth session of Unesco's  General Conference. The Soviet delegation takes  this opportunity of thanking the delegations which  were sympathetic towards our request and voted for  the Indian delegation's proposal.
(32) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Spanish): 1 call upon the delegate of China,
(33) Mr. CHEN YUAN (China): Mr, President, I  have asked for the floor in order to enter a protest  against the personal attack made upon me by the  Soviet delegate at the last meeting, and to claim  your protection, As the distinguished delegate of  Australia pointed out, such personal attacks have  never been known at any previous General Confer-  ence of Unesco, 1 have no intention of retaliating.
1 even refrained from retaliating when he made a  gratuitous attack upon my country. I will only say  this, that, although we have at the moment lost a  great deal of our territory, thanks to Soviet  machinations, our Government still stands firmly  on our own soil. Our Government has the fervent  support of millions of our nationals vverseas, and  the silent but no less fervent support of many more  millions of our brethren who are writhing in the  iron grip of alien rule. Mr. President, it is not  we who are without a country, it is those who  willingly look up to a foreign power as their father  and master, who are really without a country. But  the Soviet delegate's attack upon my country is not  only an insult to my country and my delegation,  which are used to such insults, but is an insult to  the General Conference, which, in the face of  Soviet opposition, accepted the credentials of my  delegation by a large majority, It was a decision  of the whole Conference and commands the respect  of all delegations. Whatever their political or  ideological differences, delegates who are now   H-17 PLENARY  members of the same Conference should refrain  from recrimination and work, if not in harmony -  as desired by some of the delegates and speakers -  at least in a spirit of mutual respect. If someone  offends against this spirit, he strikes a blow at the  fundamentals of any international conference. Should  such violemt personal attacks be allowed? How can  a delegate be protected from such attacks? Accord-  ing to the common parliamentary practice of many  nations, when a member of an assembly makes a  personal tttack upon another member, the member  attacked can request the offender to withdraw his  words and apologize. 1 ask him to do so now, or,  perhaps, Mr. President, you might cor.sider  ordering the offending remarks to be 'xpunged from  the records. My delegation is confident that you,  in your wisdom, will decide rightly how to protect a  delegate from being personally assault:d by another  delegate and to prevent any recurrence ”f such  offences,
(34) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  As President, I must consider this regrettable  incident closed. I shall endeavour to have the  matter amicably settled between the two delegations,  but I do not feel that the incident should engage the  attention of the Conference any further,  CONSIDERATION AND ADOPTION OF THE REPORT OF  THE ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION (continued)
(35) I call upon the Rapporteur of the Administrative  Commission.
(36) Mr. ERIKSSON (Rapporteur of the Administra-  tive Commission): Mr. President, fellow delegates,  I want to introduce to you the Corrigendum to  document 8C/ADM/35. According to it, you should  delete Part III of Section F, page 41 in the report 1  presented to you the other day and take the document  you have before you in 8C/ADM/35 Corrigendum,  where you have the resolution on the working  languages. We have adopted No. 41 concerning the  Spanish language and No, 42 will be the resolution  we have just adopted concerning the use of Russian.
(37) The last point will be resolution 43, which  recommends that every effort shall be made by the  Executiv Board, in co-operation with the Director-  General, tc reduce as far as possible the number  and length of sessions of the Executive Board, and  to request the Executive Board, in co-operation with  the Director-General, to study ways and means of  achieving this end and to submit recommendations  to the ninth session of the General Conference.
(38) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  The discussion is open. If no one wishes to speak,
1 shall take a vote on items 43, 43.1 and 43.2
(39) They are unanimously approved.
(40) ! feel that, by way of conclusion,  it would be well to take a general vote  on all the items in the Administrative  Commission's Report on which we have  voted separately.    MEETINUS
(41) The items in the Administrative Commission's  Report are approved by 51 votes in favour, none  against and 1 abstention.  CONSIDERATION AND ADOPTION OF THE REPORT GF THE  PROGRAMME AND BUDGET COMMISSION (documeni 8C/PRQ/ 30  and document 8C/BUD/6 rev. 2, Annex I)
(42) 1 call upon the Rapporteur.
(43) Mr. HOPE (Rapporteur of the Programme  and Budget Commission): Mr, President, fellow  delegates, the Programme and Budget Commission  began its discussions on 17 November and finished  yesterday afternoon, after a total of some thirty-  three meetings. The substance of our deliberations  and of our subsequent recommendations are in  document 8C/5 with Corrigenda plus several  amendments listed in the Annex to the report now  before you. In addition to these amendments there  are a few corrigenda which are provided with the  same code no. of 8C/PRG/30 Addenda. The  background of our report is the history of the past  programmes of Unesco, Bearing these past  programmes in mind, bearing in mind the need for  their improvement and above all the urgent need  for bringing to the attention of the peoples of the  world the Organization of Unesco and its activities  and aims, we turned to a deliberation of our  present programme, Further, we had before us a  report of the Executive Board known as document
8C/PRG/13, which makes recommendations for  the future programme of Unesco under the title  Remodelied Programme. The main points of this  document, you will recall, are that the Board  invites you to give further heed to the needs of  Member States, to attempt to adopt in the future,  instead of many small projects, a few major ones,  and, in order to implement these major products  to strike a balance between those general activities  that continue from year to year and the special  activities through which we hope to meet the needs  of Member States.
(44) The framework within which our deliberations  were fixed is the budget ceiling. When last our  Commission came before you, the General  Conference gave us its approval to work within a  budget ceiling which roughly gives us for 1955 just  under $10,000, 000 and for 1956 just over  $10,500,000, Having received that permission,  the Commission proceeded to examine chapter by  chapter the documents in the proposed programme  and budget for 1955-56, We first examined, out of  chronological order, the chapter on the expanded  programme of technical assistance. Thereafter  we followed from 1 through 8 the chapters in the  grey book. 1 do not intend here to enter at length  into the deliberations of the Commission or into  the many amendments, the occasional deletions  and rejections it made. I will summarize briefly  some of the major modifications in the chapters  one by one.
(45) Of the technical assistance programme I will  only say that we adopted the resolutions in that  document and call the attention of \he Director of  this programme to several constructive criticisms.  - 214 -   PLENARY  I say this now so that I do not need to repeat that in  each chapter many constructive criticisms were  made regarding the programme by delegates in the  Commission and these are herewith called to the  attention of the respective departmental directors.  Without further modification, then, of the technical  assistance programme, the resolutions which put  this into effect were recommended for adoption.
(46) In the chapter on Education one of the most  important parts was the new document 8/DIV/80,  containing the recommendations of the Committee  of Experts on Education for International Under-  standing and Co-operation. This was placed in the  Education chapter only for convenience; actually it  is intended by the Commission that the recommend-  ations contained in it shall have a bearing upon the  implementation of projects in each chapter, in  other words, the Commission urges the Director-  General to make an effort in each part of the  programme to carry uut ideas of international  understanding and co-operation,
(47) Subventions to international organizations in  the educational field - and, I may add, ‘n all of the  substantive fields recognized in our programmes  past, present and future - were enthusiastically  supported, and 1 will anticipate the programme  here to say that, in the discussion of the remodelled  programme, doubt was expressed by certain  delegations regarding the fixing or stabilizing of a  lavel of general activities; it was the sense both of  the Advisory Committee and of this Commission  that general activities and special activities should  at all times be interdependent, With that under-  standing we can go on to say that the Commission  made a serious effort to increase the subvention  offered to the group of internatiunal non-govern-  mental organizations in each of these chapters,  notably ICSU in the Natural Sciences chapter and the  International Council for Philosophy and Humanistic  Studies in the Cultural Activities chapter.
(48) To continue with Education, the programme  puts strong emphasis upon fundamental education  and primary education. In this respect the  Commission approved the regional projects on  fundamental education but indicated for the future  that Member States should encourage the develop-  ment of their own national centres. The proposal  for an Advisory Committee on School Curriculum  was accepied with reservations, with the under-  standing that further planning will precede the  convening of the experts.
(49) Finally, there was an important modification  in the aid to Member States, in the form of an  increase in the allocation for emergency educational  assistance to Palestine refugees, and here again,  although the figure was fixed at somewhat less than  was requested, it was the sense of the Commission  that, should economies be made in the Education  chapter, they could be added to the amount supplied  to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for  this large and important project.
(50) In the Natural Sciences chapter I have already  mentioned the Commission's interest in giving aid  to ICSU, New elements in the programme are  increased attention to arid zone and humid zone  research, as well as the programme on oceanography.  One of the most hotiy debated projects in Natural  -    MEETINGS 1-17  Sciences was the campaign against cancer. It was  accepted, rejected, then accepted again, under the  new title Basic Research on Cellular Growths.  Finally, a dramatic addition to this programme  came with the adoption of a resolution, originally  introduced by the delegations of France and Japan,  on the utilization of atomic energy for peaceful  purposes, the programme to be worked out in  development with that now being planned by the  United Nations. In view of the effort to change  the direction of the science co-operation offices,  there was some discussion about maintaining the  Science Co-operation Office in New Delhi. It was  agreed, however, to continue this Office under  special circumstances. In the same way, the  Office of Science Co-operation in Istanbul was  voted to be closed so that the money could be used  for other parts of this chapter. However, the  Turkish delegate was assured by the Director-  General that services to his country would be  continued either through the Department of Natural  Sciences at headquarters, or through the action of  National Commissions, action made possible by a  development in our programme which 1 shall refer  to later.
(51) Under Social Sciences the programme wus  adopted very much as it stands in the book, with  the important exception of projects under the  heading: Problems of international understanding  and tensions. It was felt that this part of the  programme was weak, and the entire section was  revised as document 8C/PRG/29. In this form it  found the approval of the Commission and was  adopted. Lastly, an important resolution introduced  by the delegation of India, amended, and then  jointly presented by Czechoslovakia, the United  States of America and other countries on the  subject of peaceful co-operation, was adopted  unanimously.
(52) Under Cultural Activities I have already  referreu to the Commission's support of the  International Council for Philosophy and Humanistic  Studies. One should add to this the interest shown  by the Commission in all organizations concerned  with creative artists: musicians, writers,  playwrights, architects, and their participation  in international activities. Two subventions in this  field were increased and many delegates expressed  their wish to obtain further participation of  creative artists in this Organization. An important  addition to this part of the programme is the series  of international regulations which were adopted by  a working party of the Commission and further by  the Commission itself, These refer to the  Copyright Convention, the Convention for  Protection of Cultural Property, the International  Competiviv in A=~hitecture and the desirability of  establishing regulations with regard to archaeo-  logical investigations. An important new project  in Cultural Activities was that of producing reading  material for new literates. This project, of  course, crosses the departmental line and is of  as much interest {y experts in education as to  specialists in cultural activities. Again, the  attention of the departmental director is called to  the many constructive suggestions made by  delegates on this point.  - 215 -   II-17 PLENARY
(53) Another new development is the recommend-  ation to the Director-General that ne shall have  published a book 1n commemoration of the centenary  of the great Polish poet Adam Mickiewicz.
(54) The Index Translationum,. which had been  recommended for a reduction in the budget, was  reinstated at its 1953-54 level,
(55) A working party of the Commissicn studied  the continuing project for a Scientific and Cultural  History of Mankind and the programme as listed in  this chapter was adopted.
(56) The Commission took note of a report on  Esperanto (document 8C/PRG/ 3).
(57) Mass Communication, The most important  development in this Department came from ihe  Commission's acceptance of the recommendations  of the working party, to the effect that the structure  af the Department be organized according to its two  crerative functions, À few changes were made in  the Mass Communication projects, as follows: the  film budget was somewhat reduced, but money was  provided for the addition of two posts in visual aids  and for the making of a limited number of films  and filmstrips. At the same time, the Commission  felt that the Secretariat should not attempt to set up  a film laboratory, but rather contract for films.  One of the most important acts of the Commission,  and doubtless of this Conference, was the unanimous  adoption of a resolution calling for measures to  promote the use of means of mass communication  to increase mutual confidence and understanding  among the peoples of the world. This resolution  was drawn up on the basis of proposals submitted  by the delegation of the USSR and of amendments  suggested by the delegation of the United States of  America and other countries. The final draft of the  resolution was submitted by twelve countries. In  the supporting speeches much emphasis was given  to the importance of implementing this resolution  through the action of Member States.
(58) In the chapter on General Resolutions, several  important decisions were taken which should have a  bearing upon the future programme. These are  largely contained in the report of our fourth working  party, the party on decentralization (8C/PRG/25  (rev.)). Its recommendations in this respect were  accepted with an important reservation, namely,  that decentralization of the programme shall not  mean decentralization of administration. We call  to the attention of the Conference, therefore, that  the basic principle of universality must not be  forgotten in our adoption of this programme of  decentralization, Then how are we going to go  about decentralization? An important project in  the paper is one brought forward by the delegation  of India for the establishment of an Office of Co-  operation with Unesco in that region. This project  was viewed favourably by the Commission,  Secondly, important recommendations were rnade  for developing the activities of National Commis+  sions. This has been, as many of you know, a  subject of much interest and of constant reiteration  in past programmes. Here in these resolutions  important budgetary steps are taken that will make  it possible for National Commissions to receive  further aid for such purposes as holding regional  meetings among themselves, and other purposes.  - 216 -     MEETINGS
(59) Another point to be made in decentralization  is an important recommendation of this working  party adopted by the Commission regarding the  seat of future Unesco conferences, As we all  know, the ninth session of the General Conference  is to go to New Delhi, but this party, especially  in viev of the decentralization of activities,  recommends that, by and large, conferences  should be held at the permanent headquarters in  Paris.
(60) I mention, ir concluding my remarks on these  chapters, that, in spite of every effort by the  Commission to economize, the final total of  expenditure came to perhaps a quarter of a million  dollars above the ceiling. The Commission turned  over this problem to the Advisory Committee and  accepted its recommendations for bringing the  programme back into line with the budget ceiling,  The only important change was the one already  referred to - the reinstatement of the campaign  against cancer. This was made possible by  economies in another part of the chapter on  Natural Sciences.
(61) At our closing meeting yesterday, in fact in  two meetings, the Commission deliberated on the  recommendations received from the Advisory  Committee regarding the remodelling of the future  programme of Unesco. You will recall that the  Conference in plenary session has already voted  on this matter, and the substance of its deliberations  were finally brought together in a resolution which  bears the number 11.1.
(62) In conclusicn, gentlemen, the Commission  has certain observations to make to this Conferenze,  observations many of which are well known to you,  but which should be repeated here. In the first  place, 1 think it is proper te say to you that this  Commission holds very dearly to its prerogatives  of deliberating and taking action upon the programme  and budget. In doing so, it recognizes the great  difficulties imposed upon it by the large number  of delegations, each of which has the full right to  speak. That number now reaches, in the Com-  mission which has just completed its labours, 68  delegates of our 72 Member States, and we were  aided and abetted by numerous observers from the  international non-governmental organizations,  whose support was considered one of the basic  interests and needs of Unesco, But with this huge  programme, 280 pages plus numerous addenda,  plus the large number of supplementary documents,  it was extremely difficult to do what the Com-  mission felt it necessary to do, namely, make a  close examination of each project in the programme.  It therefore places on record the need, if the  programme is to be a good programme, if Unesco  indeed is to continue to exist and carry out its  aims, for the reform of these procedures.
(63) What does the Commission specifically  advocate for the consideration of the General  Conference? We ask you, ladies and gentlemen,  to consider some way of improving the time-table.  I would remind you that it was not until the sixth  day of the General Conference that this Commission  was able to begin its deliberations. It was not  until the twelfth day that we had a figure for the  budget ceiling which madé it possible to deliberate   PLENARY  with any degree of permanence, Furthermore, we  were overwhelmed this year with draft resolutions,  exceeding 120 in number, Some of these were of  major importunce to our programme and, as you  have heard in the details of the various chapters,  many have been adopted and will have an important  effect upon our future programme. Others were of  secondary importance, and we recommend to the  Member States, to their National Commissions and  to the Director-General that means be considered of  getting these resolutions in ahead of time, and  furthermore that they should be screened so that  those which are not really appropriate for adoption  or consideration by the Commission, can be handled  in some other way. A resolution, even of minute  importance, often required for its discussion from  half-an-hour to an entire meeting.
(64) I will conclude with this observation, The  Commission is deeply concerned with the need to  improve the relationship between itself and the  other important bodies of this Organization which  have been set up to assist it, to advise it, to help  in carrying out the programme, and particularly  with its relationship to the Advisory Committee.  We have no special recommendations to make to  you there, other than the general urge that somehow  this relationshin be improved. 1 will add that  throughout the meetings we found this advice,  whether it came from the Advisory Committee, the  Executive Board, or other Committees, very  helpful, but often, it must be frankly admitted. it  meant a duplication of effort, and the time could  have been spent very effectively otnerwise.
(65) Finally, it is appropriate, ladies and gentle-  men, to thank the Executive Board, the Advisory  Committee and the Secretariat for the many hours  of hard work, sound advice and friendly assistance  all have put into the planning of this programme,
(66) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  The report we have just heard is now open to  discussion. I think that, in order to facilitate the  discussion and adoption of the report and its con-  clusions, we should take the different parts  separately. Part I, which is short, can be  considered as a whole, and Part lI chapter by  chapter, as we did when dealing with the Report of  the Administrative Commission,  {67) We shall begin, then, by examining the first  part of the Report and its resolutions.  Page 1 of the Annex. If no delegate wishes to  speak, we will take a vote.
(68) Part I is unanimousiy adopted.  Part lI. Chapter 1: Education
(69) I call upon the delegate of Colombia.
(70) Mr. BERNAL JIMENEZ (Colombia) (Trans-  lation from the Spanish): Mr. President, the  Colombian delegation will approve this chapter,  Ent asks that the fcllowing statement be included  in the records.  “In approving Unesco's programme and budget  for 1955-56 the delegation of Colombia regrets  that, so far as the chapter on Education is concerned,  - 217 -     MEETINOS 11-17  it must record certain reservations and objections  with regard to the Regional Fundamental Education  Centre at Patzcuaro (Mexico). Reliable information  in the delegation's possession about the working of  this Centre has given cause for serious concern  in matters of morality. This is the moat important  aspect of education and there seem to have been  grave shortcomings in this respect.  The Latin Americar countries, for whose benefit  the Patzcuaro Centre was established have always  followed the highest moral principles In their  education and culture, and it would be quite  illogical and extremely regrettable if future  teachers, while undergoing specialized technical  training, were to be exposed to corrupting moral  influences which would have a harmful effect on the  children and young people who will later be in their  charge,  Colombia, which has given CREFAL generous  financial support and has sent a large number of  carefully selected students to study at the Centre,  in expressing these misgivings at the eighth  sessiun of the General Conference, earnestly hopes  that the necessary moral reforms will be made to  ensure that the Fundamental Education Centre at  Patecuaro, far from constituting a danger and a  menace, will henceforth be a sound instrument  for the promotion of good citizenship, education  and culture among the peoples of Latin America.  The Colombian delegation requests the President  to arrange for this statement to be included, in full,  in the records of the session. "
(71) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Spanish): It shall be done.
(72) 1 call upon the Director-General.
(73) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL: Mr. President,
1 have discussed this matter with the delegate of  Colombia, and also with the Director of the  Patzcuaro Centre, I have also visited Patzcuaro  on two occasions, in September of 1953 and  October of 1954. I have been unable to find  evidence of serious difficulty of the sort he  mentioned. l have, however, asked the Director  of the Centre to take any possible measure tu  increase the assurance that things are not as bid  as they sometimes have been rumoured to be. I  cannot, of course, give full assurance on this  matter because the students there are adults, they  are not under the kind of discipline that children  are under in school and in their homes. Never-  theless, we will do everything we can to prevent  occurrences of the kind which have been rumoured  to exist and which have given concern to the  Colombian desegate.
(74) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Spanish): I call upon the delegate of Viet-Nam.
(75) Mr. VO VAN LUA (Viet-Nam) (Translation  from the French): Mr. President, ladies and  gentlemen, I am addressing the meeting today in  order to voice the Viet-Namese delegaticn's  objections to the chapter on Education.
(76) We do not disagree with the Secretariat or  with the Programme and Budget Commission, but
1-17 PLENARY  we feel that something should be added, if only that  our attitude, which is common to all members of  the great university family, may be noted in the  records.
(77) I refer you to resolution 1, 212, paragraph 114.  This resolution reads as follows:  "The Director-General 1s authorized to assist  Member States and appropriate international  organizations to develop and improve school  rducation, while at the same time orienting it  towards international --
(78) When considering this improvement in national  education systems, however, both the Secretariat  and the Programme and Budget Commission have  confined their attention to fundamental, primary  and secondary education, leaving aside the question  of higher education. All we can find about this  question of university education is a simple refer-  ence by the Secretariat in paragraph 125: "the  heading school education seems to exclude teaching  and research at the university level, In this  respect, most professionai ‘nd educational  problems relating to univers: ies are the direct  concern of the International Æ‘sociation of  Uriversities, which will receive a subvention".
(72) And when I turn to paragraphs 45-48 relating  to the International Association of Universities, to  which the General Conference has granted a total  subvention of $28,000 fcr the two years, all I find  is:  "The Association established a documentation  centre, maintains a permanent information service  and publishes a quarterly bulletin and special  studies on questions of inierest to universities.  Unesco is thus enabled to free itself of clearing  house work in the field of higher education’.
(80) This, then, is all we can hope to receive  from the International Association of Universities,  in return for $28, 000.
(81) Paragraph 125 refers to professional and  edu-ational - that is, pedagogical - problems.  Unesco is not interested in questions of this kind,  particularly professional questions. At the most,  pedagogical questions might have some reper-  cussions in the life of the Organization,
(82) Pedagogics is concerned only with the formal  side of education, the manner in which a science  or subject is taught, but it has nothing to do with  the content of the teaching,
(83) But it is a matter of great importance to us,  the Member States of Unesco, that attention should  be given to the content of teaching, for it is by that  means that Unesco can achieve its aim of establishing  understanding among the peoples and international  concord.
(84) Thus, the question of university education  remains unsolved, Only primary, secondary and  fundamental education are dealt with by the  programme of Unesco.
(85) In now pleading the cause of university  education, ! have no intention of creating other  budgetary difficulties for the Organization, but  simply wish to draw attention to the gap which has  been left in this chapter on Education,
(86) With regard to unive: sity education and  students, the delegate of Japan, in the Programme  and Budget Commission, put forward a draft  erstanding and co-operation’.     MEETINGS  resolution on Friends of Uneaco Clubs, organized  by students, There again, hcwever, Unesco is  only on the steps of the faculties and universities,  It would do much better to enter boldly by the main  door instead of wandering round outside.
(87) I should like Unesco to make a direct approach  to students themselves. Belonging as I do to the  great university family, I have found that this is  the only way to produce international understanding,  for students come to play their part in the political  life of their countries a few years after completing  their studies; they guide public opinion in varicus  capacities - as writers on current affairs, teachers  or statesmen, Perhaps I may be allowed à personal  reference: at present, three of my former students  are Ministers in the Government of Viet-Nam,  including the Minister of Justice and the Minister  of Finance. You will thus see how important it is  that we should give some thought to the student  body if we wish to do anything for the good of  Unesco,
(88) As a practical suggestion and te avoid taking  up too much of your time, I shall make the following  proposal: the International Association of  Universities should be made to appreciate the need  for it to co-operate with Unesco in order to bring  Unesco into the universities, and first of all into  the Faculties of Arts, by instituting special degree  certificates for studies relating to ali the cultures  of the world: Hindu, Arab, Chinese, Japanese,  Latin American, etc. These diplomas would not  be taken into account for the degrees required of  secondary te. hers (like the French licence  d'enseignement), but they would give all students a  knowledge of intellectual, cultural and, above all,  spiritual developments in the Arab countries, in  Japan, in Montevideo, etc, When all students  throughout the world have a clear idea of what is  going on among their neighbours, they will have  more sympathy for the countries on their borders  and even for countries which lie some 15, 000  miles distant from their own, as Viet-Nam does  from Montevideo. The only people we like are  those whom we know and understand. And it is  this which offers the best hope of establishing  lasting peace throughout the world.
(89) But there is no reason to stop at the graduate  level; there is also the doctorate. 1 am not  thinking of the higher degrees, like the French  doctorat d'état (which is very difficult and not  within the powers of all intellects) but of those  corresponding to the doctorat d'université. What  is there to prevent Unesco from encouraging the  preparation of theses on the modern humanities,  dealing, for instance, with Mexican-Spanish and  Uruguayan-Spanish literature, or Chinese  philosophy, Indian philosophy, Japanese  literature and philosophy, etc? All these theses  would be defended before the faculties and  universities of all countries and would  constitute veritable monographs, which Unesco  would uidertake to publish. In that way,  we should soon build up a collection of  Unesco works which would assist in the  development of international understanding  or, in other words, in the establishment  of international peace.  - 218 -   PLFHARY
(90) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the So irish):  I cali upon the delegate of Mexico.
(91) Mr. SANDOVAL VALLARTA (Mexico) (Trans-  lation from the Spanish): Mr. President, the  Mexican delegation deeply regrets that the Colombian  delegation has felt obliged to criticize the Regional  Fundamental Education Centre for Latin America,  at Patzcuaro,
(92) Furthermore, as | have already said in the  Programme and Budget Commission, the Mexican  Government wishes to state once more to the  Conference that it will always comply strictly with  the terms of the contract which it has signed with  this Organization, governing the operation of the  Centre concerned,
(93) The PRESIDENT (Tr~uslation from the Spanish}:  I call upon the delegate o. ! ebanon.
(94) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) {Translation from the  French); Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, in  connexion with resolution 1,222 - page 3 of the  Annex concerning Education - 1 should like to take  this opportunity of thanking Unesco, all the Member  States and the Secretariat once again for the kindly  interest they have always shown in the situation of  Palestine refugees. 1 should like to emphasize that  when (he resolution, after being examined by the  Programme and Budget Commission, was approved,  an increase was made in the amount of assistance to  refugees. When the Commission was cbliged to  readjust the budget, it cancelled that increase, but  the Director-General promised that if, in the future,  he found he could restore it, he would certainly do  so. 1 should have liked this to be mentioned in the  report, and I would ask the Conference whether it  has any objection to its being noted in the records.
(95) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  The proposal is approved and it will be done. If no  other delegate wishes to speak, we will take a vote  on the Education chapter.
(96) The chapter on Education is unanimously  approved.  Chapter 2: Natural Sciences
(87) If no one wishes to speak, we will take a vote.
(98) Tre chapter on Natural Sciences is unanimously  approved.  Chapter 3: Social Sciences
(99) I call upon the Secretary.  {100) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretariat) (Translation  from the French): Mr, President, ladies and  gentlemen, ir this chapter, I have to ask you to  refer to the new resolution 3.53. The text shown  under this mumber, with the reference 8C/DR/8  amended, is not the right cne. It is not the wording  that was approved. The text approved is contained  in document 8C/DR/105 (rev.), which is in fact the  amendment to document 8C/DR/8, With the  - 219 -     MEETINGS u-11  President's permission, 1 shall reread the text  actually approved by the Commission.  "Bearing in mind that discrimination, as  enumerated in Article 2 of the Universal  Declaration of Human Rights, on the basis of race,  colour, sex, lançuage, religion, political or other  opinion, national or social origin, property, birth  or other status, is one nf the greatest dangers to  peace and to human dignity; noting that Unesco  has already taken some commendable steps in  producing excellent publications on the subject of  race and race relations; regretting that discrim-  ination in very ugly forms continues to vitiate  relations between human beings in certain areas  of the world; the General Conference calls upon  all Member States and National Commissions fer  Unesco to eradicate in all possible ways the evil  of discrimination and authorizes the Director-  General, in carrying out the programme of Unesco,  to give special attention to measures designed to  eliminate all such discriminaticn and, more  particularly, in 1955 to measures calculated to  eradicate race prejudices."
(101) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Spanish): We shall continue the discussion,  subject to the correction just indicated, If no  delegate wishes to speak we will take the vote,
(102) The chapter on Social Sciences is approved.  Chapter 4: Cultural Activities
(103) Approvea unanimously.  Chapter 5: Mass Communication
(104) Approved unanimously.  Chapter 6: Exchange of Persons
(105) Approved unanimously.  Chapter 7: General Resolutions
(106) Approved,  Chapter 8: Publications Fund and Seal and  Emblem of Unesco
(107) Approved unanimously.  Chapter 9: Expanded Programme of  Technicai Assistance
(108) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Spanish): 1 call upon the delegate of France,
(109) Mr. LAUGIER (France) (Translation from  the French): Mr. President, fellow delegates,  now that you are about to vote cn the budget and  resolutions relating to technical assistance, the  French delegation wishes to make its position  perfectly clear: it considers that the programme  of assistance provided by the United Nations and  the Specialized Agencies is the greatest and most  generous instance of men's endeavours to help their   I-17 PLENARY MEETINGS  fellow men ever known in all the history of the world.  We have already said, and say once more, that those  in charge of this programme have in their hands the  hopes of mankind, France is resolved to bring the  support of all its intellectual, technical and material  resources to this great project; it is ready to share  all the sacrifices which Member States may one day  be asked to make in order to add to the means avail-  able for promoting this great cause. But, just  because it has faith in this work and ardently desires  its success, it feels obliged to submit the texts  referred to it, and the administrative machinery  which will serve or hinder the progress of technical  assistance, to a fair but searching criticism. The  French delegation does not share the general optimism  which burgeons forth so trustingly on every page of  the report on technical assistance; it feels that  rigorous self-criticism would produce better results  than thc expressions of mutual admiration so lavishly  bestowed upon each other by the various administra-  tive services concerned with the distribution of  technical assistance funds and services. It fully  appreciates the efforts made and the results  achieved, but it does not consider that technical  assistance has already brought about any notable  improvement in the standard of living of the vast  numbers of people who have placed their hopes in it.
(110) Lastly, the French delegation wishes the  serious reservations which it is obliged to make  with regard to the administrative machinery for the  conduct of technical assistance, and which it has  already indicated briefly to the Programme and  Budget Commission, to appear verbatim in the  records of the proceedings, and accordingly has to  restate them at this plenary mecting.
(111) The French representative has maintained,  without contradiction, that, if the international  authorities which have to consider technical assist-  ance projects were counted up, the total number  would be at least 24; 1 shall not give you a list of  them, for I should probably leave some out, but,  after passing through the various services in  Unesco - the Technical Assistance Department and  the other programme Departments, the Bureau of  Personnel and Management, the Travel Bureau, the  Bureau of Programme and Budget, the Office of the  Director-General, the Executive Board, the General  Conference's Advisory Committee on Programme  and Budget, the Programme and Budget Commission,  and the General Conference itself - after surmounting  all these hazards, as ! say, the projects, on reaching  the United Nations, come before TAB (United Nations  Technical Assistance Board with its sub-committees  and working parties); they must then be examined by  TAC (Technical Assistance Committee of the  Economic and Social Council), by the Economic and  Social Council itself, then by the various Committees  of the General Assembly and, finally, by the General  Assembly itself, Nor is that all: successively,  concurrently or simultaneously, the ACC  (Administrative Committee on Co-ordination) ’  with its preparatory committee and subsidiary  bodies must also consider them, At least 24  international bodies are thus concerned with  the administration of this programme, and yet  we are now told that new committees -  committees for the evaluation of the results -    - 220 -  are to be set up at the United Nations and in the  Specialized Agencies.
(112) Will these headquarters committees draw up  central reports on the local reports, or will they  send out inspectors as missi dominici to collect  additional information? Only the future can tell.
(113) Ladies and gentlemen, there is no sense in  this. No business undertaking could possibly  survive such a proliferation of parallel or super-  imposed machinery, Unless international  co-operation takes a ruthless axe to the strangling  tentacles of bureaucracy, unless it can break free,  there is a danger that it will one day stand  arraigned before the wrath and indignation of the  peoples of the world, The task is a great one,  and it is urgent; it must be carried out by the  champions of concentration, who have made drastic  cuts in the programmes but, as far as we know,  have refused to do the same in the sacrosanct  bureaucracy which threatens to hinder technical  assistance from carrying out its mission of  humanity, France has done its duty by saying what  it thinks of the present situation; it will vote for  the budget and resolutions submitted to you, subject  to the serious reservations which I have just set  forth.
(114) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Spanish): I call upon the delegate of Brazil.
(115) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) (Trans-  lation from the French): Mr. President, ladies  and gentlemen, while supporting the documents  dealing with technical assistance which are now  before us, the Brazilian delegation wishes to  record its approval of the comments made by the  French representative, We are convinced that we  should all gain if the procedure for the provision of  technical assistance were simplified, We should  gain by ensuring that the Specialized Agencies, ard  more particularly in our case, Unesco, carry more  weight in the Technical Assistance Board ind the  subsidiary bodies of the United Nations when final  decisions are being made on subjects which are cf  interest to us as an educational, scientific and  cultural organization. We need greater latitude  in our own special fields, greater flexibility in the  machinery and procedure for channelling requests  from Member States, and also, in my opinion,  closer attention to the special features of each  State when their requests are submitted.
(116) We sometimes fear that there is a tendency  to make the procedures which lead from a Member  State's request to the final grant of technical  assistance by TAB too uniform and too rigid.
(117) We would therefore urge the Director-General  and the Executive Board to see that the machinery  by which the needs of Member States and the  resources provided by the United Nations and the  Specialized Agencies are brought together is made  as simple and as flexible as possible.
(118) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Spanish): If no other delegate wishes to speak,  we will take a vote,
(119) The chapter on the Expanded Programme   PLENARY  of Technical Assistance is unanimously approved,  Chapter 10: Miscellaneous Resolutions
(120) Approved by 50 votes in favour, none against  and 2 abstentions,  Chapter 11: Resolution concerning the Future  Programme
(121) Approved unanimously.  Appropriation Resolution for 1955 and 1956  (document 8C/BUD/6 (rev. 2), Annex 1)
(122) Approved by 47 votes in favour, none against,  and 5 abstentions,
(123) Having approved all the chapters separately,  we shall now take a vote on the report as a whole.
(124) The report is unanimously approved.  NEED FOR MAKING UNESCO A GLOBAL ORGANIZATION (cocu-  ments 8C/DR/4 and Add., 8C/DR/120 and 8C/DR/128)
(125) I call upon the delegate of India.
(126) Mr, WADIA (India): Mr. President and fellow  delegates, it is my proud privilege to move the  resolution that stands in the name of the Indian  delegation, as found in document 8C/DR/ 4:  "Realizing that Unesco cannot fulfil effectively  its great task of establishing the foundations of peace  upoi the intellectual and moral solidarity of mankind  without becoming truly global in its membership,  character and scope,  The General Conference  Expresses the wish that all States which have  not yet become members of Unesco, will do so as  soon as possible, and  Authorizes the Director-General to invite all  such States to join the Organization,"
(127) My delegation has found it necessary to  amend it by adding the words which are found in  document 8C/DR/4, Addendum "in consultation  with the Economic and Social Council”.
(128) If the Indian delegation now sponsors this  resolution with pride, it does so not without  considerable regret, for the resolution on the face  oi it should be superfluous; the very essence of  Unesco, as clearly enunciated in its preamble, is  the recognition of "full and equal opportunites for  all in the unrestricted pursuit of objective truth  and in the free exchange of ideas and knowledge".  If, in spite of this open and unambiguous  declaration, we feel constrained to move a  resolution, it is a clear sign that "there is something  rotten in the State of Denmark'', that Unesco has not  risen to a full realization of its responsibilities or  of its potentialities.
(128) In the light of our experience of what has  happened at this session in Montevideo, it would be  worth refreshing our memory of the conditions  which brought Unesco into existence, The world  was dark with war clouds when the Great Fowers  - 221 -     MEETINGS 11-17  conceived the noble idea of the United Nations,  and it was welcomed as the last desperate means  of saving the world from the ravages of modern  warfare, But it was conceived at the political  level. Politics has its obvious limitations, it  cannot bypass fears and suspicions, the will to  power and the wish to get the best of existing  conditions. In such a soil, the will to peace  cannot effectively flourish. And so on a great day  the idea was conceived of bringing into being  another organization which could work for peace  and towards peace without the lim*tations of  politics. That organization was Unesco. The  United Nations was rooted in the present, and was  coutent to solve world problems as and when they  arose, in makeshift fashion, in the spirit of  compromise, but Unesco aimed at a long-range  policy, it wanted to sow the seeds of peace in thr.  minds of men, it wanted to tackle the problem , of  peace through education, science and culture, it  recognized the supreme worth of culture as a  broadening concept, it aimed at producing men and  women of culture who could understand one another.  The mark of a cultured man is always his lack of  fanaticism, he emphasizes the will to understand  and sympathize, to tolerate, nay, even to  appreciate standpoints other than his own, in  recognition of the great axiom politics divides -  culture unites, It is clear, therefore, that, while  Unesco is a child of the United Nations and owes  certain loyalties to the fundamental principles of  the United Nations, it is nevertheless, an autono-  mous organization. It was never intended to be a  mere carbon copy of the United Nations. Surveying  the work of Unesco during the few years of its  existence, we all recognize that its foundations  were well and truly laid, that it has carried light  to the darkest corners of the earth, that it has  honestly aimed at raising the level of the under-  developed countries in their education and culture.  The world has awakened to a new sense of human  dignity, whether humanity be white or black,  yellow or brown; it implies a consciousness that  the weakest link in the chain of human relations  constitutes the greatest danger to peace, and to  eliminate this weakest link requires that all the  nations of the world, big and small, all find a home  in the warm bosom of Unesco.
(130) Has this hope been fulfilled? The other day,  as | was listening to the speech by the honourable  delegate of the United States of America, playing  the rôle of counsel for the prosecution, whether  against China, or Rumania, or Bulgaria, I thought  to myself how much better this world would be if  countries in Europe and America took to heart the  simple but great biblical precept "Judge not that  ye be not judged". The ideal of Unesco is so lofty  that there is hardly a country in the world today  that can say with a clear conscience that there is  no skeleton in its cupboard, I feel that the wisdom  of Ovid can apply to organizations as well as to  individuals: Meliora video, pejora sequor.
(131) The very ideals of Unesco as embodied in its  Constitution should make it impossible for any  nation willing to accept the ideals of Unesco, to be  excluded. The triumphs of Unesco should be judged  not by its capacity to convert the converted, but by   I-17 PLENARY  its capacity to convert the unconverted, There have  been countries that kept aloof from Unesco. Today,  for the first time in this very hall, we find the  delegates of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics  and of Spain, sitting together, intent, like everyone  else, upon solving the problems of humanity through  dissemination of education and culture.
(132) To keep out the representatives of 600 million  Chinese weakens Unesco, to keep out even for two  years small countries like Rumania and Bulgaria,  countries pulsating with life and keen to play their  part in the cultural renaissance of humanity, is to  repudiate our faith in Unesco as the one organization  in the world of today which may be trusted tu  achieve an enduring peace. Beati pacifici - whether  they come from the East or the West.
(133) We in Unesco today are faced by a dilemma,  and it can be resolved in only one way. If China,  Rumania and Bulgaria are as cultured as they claim  to be, if the records of their achievements in  education and science are as great as they are  claimed to be, they should be welcomed to Unesco  with open arms, for they, too, have something  precious to give to the world. If, on the other  hand, they are still so backward as their critics  point out, in the elementary principles of justice  and international morality, it is all the more the  dnty of Unesco to admit them as members, for they  need help, they need enlightenment, Unesco exists,  not so riuch for the developed as for the under-  developed; not so much for the strong as for the  weak, for it has taken upon its shoulders the burden  of the world as a keeper of its brothers in every  corner of the world. Nothing at this se=sion of our  Conference has impressed me more than the  wonderfully eloquent speeches that came from the  lips of the representatives of our new Associate  Members, the Gold Coast and Sierra Leone,  Malaya and Bornen. They were learned and  impassioned, they mark the birth of a new  consciousness of freedom and culture in the  countries of Africa and Asia that were not so long  ago lagging behind in the race of life, Unesco has  given them a status which they value and are proud  of, that is what Unesco itself can be proud of.
(134) We in India have come mos* into contact  with the West, we are grateful to the British and  the Americans for having made us lovers of  freedom. We still wish them to be leaders in the  world of freedom. If there is anything noble in  Unesco, that inherent nobility must infect all its  members, whatever political creed they may follow.  If they find a country within the Unesco fold not  keeping to the mark, they can hope to bring all the  pressure that a peaceful, global organization like  Unesco can bring to bear on it as a brother member,  But if a country is kept out of our great Organization,  we have no hold on it, we cannot argue with it, we  cannot hope to improve it.
(135) Mr, President and fellow delegates, I hope I  have even partially succeeded in making clear the  imperative needs to have Unesco function as a truly  global organization, If it is not global, it is false  tu itself; it can fulfil its mission as a great organi-  zation for peace only if it admits all to its ranks;  every country that s:eks admission to Unesco does  so with open ~yes and a clear knowledge that Unesco  - 222 -     MEETINGS  is for peace and for all, If there are countries in  the world that still shun our fellowship, and  unfortunately there are some, we should try to  get them in, and that is why our resolution calls  upon the Director-General to invite all such  nations to join Unesco,
(136) Fellow delegates, we commend this  resolution for your acceptance, If I am not out of  order, ! should like to refer in brief to the amend-  ments of which notice has been given, We have  considered these amendments, We regret that we  do not find it possible to accept the amendment  proposed by the delegation of China, for it differs  essentially and in spirit from our resolution, but,  in the amended resolution as put forth by the  Advisory Committee, we find that the central  principle of our resolution is accepted, and to that  extent the Indian delegation is prepared to accept  that amendment.
(137) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Spanish): I call upon the delegate of Denmark.
(138) Mr. NIELSEN (Denmark): Mr. President,  if I have asked for the floor it is not because, as  the honourable delegate of India said: "There is  something rotten in the State of Denmark''. There
1S not a single word in what the honourable  delegate of India has just said to which I would not  subscribe, except his last words - that we should  adopt the resolution. I will tell you why,
(129) No delegation in this hall would be more in  favour of the aim of this resolution than the Danish  delegation, We are as prone as anybody to urge  the universality of Unesco, and we hope that every  nation of the world will join us. I trust that it is  evident from our attitude at this General Conference  that we mean what I have just said, Nevertheless,  I have some doubt about the wisdom of adopting  the Indian resolution as it stands, for or single  reason. The Indian resolution, in its last words,  "authorizes the Director-General to invite all such  States (as have not yet joined) to join the Organi-  zation". Since this resolution was circulated  early in October, the Indian delegation, in the light  of deliberations in the Executive Board, has added  "in consultation with the Economic and Social  Council" on the grounds, of course, that the  Economic and Social Council has to give its opinion  on new applications. But, my fellow delegates, it  is not only the Economic and Social Council which  has to give its opinion on a new application, it is  the General Conference of Unesco in the end. We  have seen at this very Conference that an application  was made, and was supported by the Economic and  Social Council, and by the Executive Board of  Unesco and was rejected at this General Conference.  I suggest for your consideration that we do not place  the Director-General and our Organization in the  position of inviting States to join us at the risk that  they may be rejected by a vote of the General  Conference, We cannot do that and for this reason  I cannot accept the Indian resolution as it stands,  I know that {wo further amendments have been  submitted - DR/120 and DR/128. Let me deal  with the latter, It is, of course, more acceptable  because it does not invite the Director-General to   PLENARY  take the initiative. It welcomes the admission of all  States not yet members of Unesco which have  demonstrated that they are willing and able to abide  by the obligations of the Unesco Constitution, While
1 feel that 1 cannot vote against that resolution, 1  have some doubt in my mird regarding this  restriction and how it would be interpreted, but 1  would rather abstain from voting on it, As far as  the Indian resolution is concerned, 1 do not think  that we can put this responsibility on our Director-  General.
(140) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):
1 call upon the delegate of China,
(141) Mr. CHEN YUAN (China): Mr, President,  fellow delegates, my delegation is wholly in favour  of universality, Indeed, universality has always  been a dominant creed in our philosophy. More  than 2, 500 y=ars ago our great sage Confucius  preached the commonwealth of mankind, and a  common saying of our people is: "All men are  brothers within the four seas'; four seas, meaning  the world. Therefore, any call for universality has  an appeal to our very nature, to our instincts, But  however much we welcome universality, we must  not lose sight of the fact that Unesco is not a garden  party, Unesco is an organization for common action,  an action with a definite purpose. The purpose of  Unesco is laid down in our Constitution, it is for  furthering universal respect for justice, for the rule  of law, for the human rights and fundamental  freedoms which are affirmed for the people of the  world, We have regretfully to admit that not all  people in the world have shown their willingness to  serve, Indeed the actions of some States are not  only at flagrant variance with these purposes, but  their actions are a complete negation of our purpose.  Much was said in a previous debate in this Conference  againsi the admission of certain States and many  facts were given, We do not intend to repeat them,  to enlarge upon them here. Suffice it to say that,  while all delegations are in favour of universality,  the Conference, with the ex~eption of small  mino:{iies, is against the admission of States which  are to all intents and purposes in conflict with our  aims, For that reason we propose an amendment  to the Indian resolution. We propose merely to add  a single phrase, that is: "..., which have demon-  strated their willingness to fulfil the purposes of the  Organization. . . " in the second and third lines of the  second paragraph. But we are also in favour of the  draft of the Advisory Committee on the Programme  and Rudget, which we think has the same object in  view, We do not wish to complicate matters or to  bring in too many amendments and, if this General  Conference wishes to accept that amendment, my  delegation is perfectly willing to withdraw our own.
(142) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):    MEETINGS I-17  I call upon the delegate of the United States of  America,
(143) Mr, KOTSCHNIG (United States of America):  Mr. President, my delegation accepts, with previous  speakers, the principle of universality of member-  ship of an organization such as Unesco. We are, at  the same time, very happy to note that the delegation  of India, which has initiated this hopeful resolution,  has agreed to accept the amendment which was  worked out after considerable discussion by the  Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget.  We are glad also to note that the Chinese amend-  ment has been withdrawn so that we have only got  one resolution before us at present, We believe  the amendment is hopeful; it is hopeful for two  reasons, First of all it makes clear what I believe  all of us can agree to, that membership of Unesco  requires the fulfilment of certain conditions, It is  quite clear that States can be admitted, can  co-operate usefully in our Organization, can help  us constructively, only if they are willing and able  to abide by the obligations of the Unesco Constitution.  That is in keeping with the amendment which has  been accepted, and makes it easier for many of us  to support this resolution. Obviously the question  of which countries ought to be admitted under this  resolution is not before us at this presert time.  That is a matter for the Conference, and the  Conference, in its wisdom and on the basis of its  interpretation of its own Constitution, will, I hope,  take the right decision when an application comes  to this Organization.
(144) The second point is that, under the amend-  ment, the difficulties so clearly pointed out by the  distinguished representative of Denmark have  disappeared. Under this draft amendment, the  Director-General will never find himself in the  awkward position of possibly inviting a State to  become a member, only to be told later by the  Conference that it is not willing to accept such  member, For these reasons, we feel that the  resolution as now amended offers a very happy  solution, and I would like to add on behalf of my  delegation that we very much hope that, in the  spirit which has prevailed in this Conference up to  toe last day, we shall be able to vote for this  important resoluticn unanimously.
(145) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Spanish): Since no one else wishes to speak, I put  to the vote the draft resolution contained in  document 8C/DR/128: Need for making Unesco a  global Organization, presented by the Advisory  Committee on Programme and Budget.
(146) The draft resolution was approved by 38  votes in favour, none against, and 7 abstentions,  The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m.  - 223 -