PROGRAMME AND BUDGET COMMISSION IV-9  NINTH MEETING
24 November 1954 at 3 p.m.  Chairman: Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland)  ITEM 8.3 OF THE REVISED AGENDA: REPORT TO THE GENERAL  CONFERENCE ON THE MAXIMUM ASSESSMENT LEVEL AND ON THE  PROVISIONAL BUDGET FIGURE FOR 1955 AND 1956 ‘Documents
8C/5 Corr., 8C/BUD/1, 8C/DR/T1, 8C/DR/81 and 8C/DR/52,
8C/DIV/105 Corr., 8C/ADM/31 and 32 Add., and 8C/ ADM/33)
(1) The CHAIRMAN called on the representative of  the Executive Board to give the Board's recom-  mendation on the budget proposed by the Director-  General in 8C/5 Corrigendum.
(2) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive  Board) informed the Commission that the Executive  Board strongly supported the higher budgetary level.
(3) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL drew attention to the  Draft Appropriation Resolution in document 8C/5  Corr. page 3. Certain changes, he pointed out,  would be made if the recommendations of the  Administrative Commission, which were to be dealt  with next in the order of business, were accepted.
(4) Mr. ERIKSSON (Rapporteur of the Administrative  Commission) presented docurnent 8C/ADM/22, the  first interim report of the Administrative Commission  cn matters relating to the ceiling of the budget for
1955-56. Points 1 and 3 had been adopted by the  Plenary Conference that morning. It remained for  the Commission to fill in the figures of point 2,  Methods of financing the budget.
(5) The CHAIRMAN reminded the Commission that  the General Conference, in plenary meeting, had  approved paragraphs 1 and 2 of document 8C/ ADM/ 33,  dealing respectively with the scale of contributions  and the methods of financing the budget. The  Programme and Budget Commission, therefore, had  only to fill in the blanks in paragraph 2 of the docu-  ment, and first of all to fix a provisional figure for  the maximum assessment level for the two-year  period 1855-56. A draft resolution on that subject  had been prepared by the delegations of Brazil,  Egypt, France and Japan. The Chairman therefore  requested the delegate of Brazil to comment on the  proposals contained therein.
(6) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) explained  that the draft resolution in question was to be found  in document 8C/DR/91 with an amendment in  document 8C/DR/92, Its aim was to fix a provisional  figure of $20,000,000 as the maximum total assess-  ment on Member States for the financial years 1955  and 1956, With the adjustments {5.2¢ would have to  be made to allow for other possible sources of  - 315 -     income (miscellaneous revenue and assessmcats on  new Member States), the gross budget level would  reacis $21,617,830; then, after subtraction of the  sum of $1,012, 000, corresponding to contributions  unlikely to be received, the final figure would be  $20,605, 830.
(7) Mr. Berredo Carneiro emphasized the fact that,  if the proposal were adopted, the contributions of  Member States would, in most cases, be lower  than those which they had paid in 1953-54. For  instance, the United Kingdom's contribution would  be reduced by $395,000. On the other hand, it was  true that the United States' contribution would rise  from $5, 999, 406 to $6, 000,000, and that there  would be an increase of some $600 each in the  contributions of the following States, as compared  with the 1953-54 figures: Cambodia, Costa Rica,  Ecuador, Haiti, Honduras, Hashemite Kingdom of  Jordan, Laos, Liberia, Monaco and Nicaragua.
(8) Although Mr. Berredo Carneiro disliked the  idea of asking any more of the ten small countries  he had just mentioned, he pointed out that the  proposal in document 8C/DR/92 was already the  result of a compromise, and strongly urged the  Commission not to fix at less than $20, 000, 000 the  figure which the Conference would be invited to  consider as the total assessment level for the  financial period 1955-56,
(9) In reply to a question from Sir Ben BOWEN  THOMAS (United Kingdom), the CHAIRMAN  explained that the draft resolution submitted jointly  by Brazil, Egypt, Fraice and Japan (document
8C/DR/92) should be regarded as an amendment to  the proposals submitted by the Director-General,  with the approval of the Executive Board.
(10) Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS (United Kingdom)  introduced an amendment to document 8C/DR/71,  submitted by the United Kingdom, as follows:  "The General Conference,  Recognizing the need for the most effective and  economic use of Unesco's resources;  Recognizing that accession of new Member States  does not of itself justify an expansion of Unesco's  activities;  Taking note of the statement of the seventh  session of the General Conference working party  on future programme and development that'Unesco's  growth does not depend entirely on increasing the  budget’;  Instructs the Programme and Budget  Commission  (a) To examine the whole programme presented
1V-9 PROGRAMME AND  to the Conference by the Director-General on the  assumption of a budget for 1955-56 equivalent to the  ‘present budgetary spending level' as proposed by  the Director-General in document 8C/5 Corrigendum;  to which may be added  (b) The additional cost of holding the ninth  session of the General Conference at New Delhi; and  (c) The cost of the use of Russian as a working  language at the ninth session of the General  Conference; and  (d) To report accordingly.  Explanatory Note  Present Budgetary Spending Level $17,575, 854  Cost of New Delhi & Russian 500, 000  Language  Total Spending Level 18,075, 854  Assessment Level 17,324, 236  Total Appropriation 18,942, 066"
(11) The United Kingdom, Sir Ben Bowen Thomas  explained, had been confirmed, by all the discussions  that had taken place on the budget, in its view that  Unesco had a prescribed but essential function, the  counterpart of which lay ir the activities of Member  States, acting officially and through voluntary  organizations, both nationally and internationally.  To base policy upon an increasing number of inter-  national bodies growing in size and power showed  a wrong diagnosis of the needs of Member States,  from which direct action was required, The acces-  sion of new Member States, and the effective return  of old ones, did not justify an immoderate expansion  in the work of the Organization. A level of expenditure  could not be based upon a windfall,
(12) Sir Ben Bower Thomas pointed out that the  amendment he was proposing authorized the Director-  General to spend, in 1955-56, $18,075,854, which  was about a million dollars more than he had been  allowed in 1953-54. As a result of the acceptance  by the Plenary Conference of the recommerdations  of the Administrative Commission on how to finance  the budget, the provision of that sum meant a total  appropriation of $18,942,066, but, thanks to the  availability of the surpluses contained in the  recommendations of the Administrative Commiission,  the call on Member States for the next two years  would only be $17, 324, 236.
(13) The well being of the world, Sir Ben Bawen  Thomas concluded, ought not to be identified with  the continuing expansion of an international organi-  zation. More money should be spent d.rectly by  Member States on an education system and cultural  activities tending to attune their peoples to  international understanding, and Unesco should be  helped to grow in strength within its limited expert  field, by concentration on tasks proper to it. The  United Kingdom resolution provided the funds  necessary for its efficiency during the next two  years.
(14) The delegates of Canada and Austria seconded  the proposal of the delegate of the United Kingdom.
(15) Mr. WIDDOWSON (Union of South Africa)  firmly supported the United Kingdom proposal. The  arguments presented in its favour were sound, and  in conformity with the Organization's best interests.  His Government went further, believing that it should  even be possible to reduce the present budgetary  - 316 -  BUDGET     COKMISSION  spending level, and still have adequate resources,  He suggested economies that would not impair the  efficiency of the programme: (1) with regard to  the travel allocation, in many cases observers  could be replaced by the despatch of conference  records. (2) It should be possible to reduce  expenditure on contracts, and avuid duplication  with other organizations.
(16) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL 1eplicd that the  question of staff travel was to be disc.‘ 3sed in detail  at a later stage. But, he pointed «+*. if more  response were to be given to the needs of Member  States, more travel for consultation would obviously  be necessary. Staff travel was less costiy than the  setting up of regional offices. With regard to  contracts, the main increase in those was at the  higher budgetary level, for the purpose of increasing  technical aid to Member States by sending out  experts to help them in technical aid projects.
(17) Mr, ARSENAULT (Canada) considered that,  in the present state of affairs, any increase in  Unesco's budget might be prejudicial, Unesco was  going through a phase of reorganization. Not only  was it giving its activities a new slant, but it had  decided to change the structure of its Executive  Board and to provide its Secretariat with a new  building. It would therefore have to go through a  transitional stage, during which any further  extension of its activities - and the resultant  untimely swelling of the budget - might be perilous.  Although the speaker was well aware of the urgency  of the problems Unesco was asked to help solve, he  believed that it should concentrate on following up  the decisions it had already taken with a view to  remodelling the programme, before thinking of  extending the scope of its activities by means of a  larger budget.
(18) Mr. Arsenault also pointed out that many  Member States were carrying on activities at home  which, being as generous in their aimis as Unesco's  own activities, cost them a considerable amount of  money.
(19) Mr. SHARIF (Pakistan) had found two trends  in all the meetings on budget ceilings he had  attended: one based on the belief that Unesco must  expand and therefore obtain larger contributions  from Member States; the other on the conviction  that contributions should be adjusted to the internal  economy, resources and obligations of Member  States, Mr. Sharif believed there was a third way,  which could reconcile the demands of the programme  with the limitations of Member States, He was  greatly impressed by the argum<nts of the Head of  the United Kingdom delegation, particularly his  emphasis on the need for national economy and  national obligations, although he did not agree with  the specific resolution moved by him. He pointed  out that in view of the accession of new Member  States it would be possible to develop the programme  without straining the resources of Member States.  His Government was opposed to any ceiling which  might ircrease the existing contributions of Member  States, and would strongly favour relief in the  existing scale of contributions. The delegate of   PROGRAMME AND  Pakistan therefore suggested a compromise over the  ceiling suggested by the delegate of the United  Kingdom and by the delegates of Brazil, France and  Japan and expressed the hope that the Confercnce  would adopt a suitable compromise,
(20) Mr. HUZAYIN (Egypt) was happy to take part  in submitting the resolution presented by the delegate  of Brazil on behalf of that country, France, Japan  and Egypt (documents 8C/DR/91 and 92). It was the  result of the deliberation of a number of States and  it presented a very reasonable compromise with the  proposal of the Director-General and the Executive  Board. The honour of putting it forward had been  distributed geographically to extend over the whole  world,
(21) He mentioned the folloning points in support  of the motion, Firstly, since the number of Member  States of Uresco had increased over the past few  years, it was only reasonable that the budget should  increase. Secondly, no Member State would suffer  any considerable increase in its contribution; some,  like the United Kingdom, were offered a reduction.  A small increase in a budget devoted to peace would  be a very encouraging sign in the present state of  world affairs. He appealed to the meeting to take a  broad view of the issue and reaffirmed that the  amendment proposed by the four States was a very  reasonable one.
(22) Baron van der STRATEN WAILLET (Belgium)  was in favour of the United Kingdom proposal. He  believed that both the budgets and activities of the  Specialized Agencies should be closely co-ordinated  with those of the United Nations. It would therefore  appear inopportune to make plans for a substantial  increase 1n Unesco's budget, just at a time when the  General Assembly of the United Nations had cut that  Organization's budget by more than a million dollars.
(23) Mr. SANDOVAL VALLARTA (Mexico) had  listened attentively to the remarks of the delegate of  the Union of South Africa concerning the need to cut  down certain administrative costs which were too  high, However, he disagreed with the South African  representative in thinking that such cuts should  provide an opportunity to reduce Unesco's income.  Income should not be reduced; on the contrary,  additional funds should be made available for the  implementation of the basic projects in Unesco's  programme,
(24) The Mexican delegation was against the United  Kingdom amendment and would vote for the amend-  ment proposed by Brazil and other delegations. It  would also oppose any suggestion to reduce estimated  income; thus it would also vote agains* any proposal  to cut down Unesco's activities.
(25) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway} had advocated  concentration and economy at all past Conferences,  but the situation had changed. New members had  entered Unesco. It was possible to enlarge the  former budget, but not to the extent proposed in the  four -State amendment. The delegate of Norway  accordingly moved the following amendment  (document 8C/DR/101) to the United Kingdom  proposal:  BUDGET     - 317 -  COMMISSION 1v-9
(26) "Proposal submitted by the delegation of  Norway to amend draft resolution 71.  Replace paragraphs (a) and (b) of the draft  resolution by the following text:  (a) To examine the whole programme presented  to the Conference by the Director-General on the  assumption of a budget for 1955-56 equivalent to  the 'present budgetary spending level' as proposed  by the Director-General in document 8C/5  Corrigendum; to which may be added subject to a  maximum appropriation of $20,000, 000:
(1) The additional cost of holding the ninth  session of the General Conference at New Delhi;
(2) The cost of the use of hussian as a working  language at the ninth session of the General  Conference;
(3) The cost of such additional items as may be  agreed by the General Conference to merit priority;  and  (b) To report accordingly.  Explanatory Note:  On the basis approved by the Administrative  Commission:  Total Appropriation $ 20, 000, 000  Assessment Level 18,382,170  Spending Level 19, 080, 891
(27) The proposal was supported by the nelegates of  Thailand, the United States of America and Greece.
(28) Mr. LAUGIER (France) felt bound to defend  energetically the joint proposal submitted by his  delegation and those of Brazil, Egypt and Japan.  It seemed impossible to him that fortunate, strong  and wealthy States should want to take avantage of  the admission of new Member States to have their  own contributions reduced. As stated in document
8C/DR/91, the admission of those new States  would mean additional expenditure for Unesco.  Every country could certainly develop those national  services whose aim it was to promote education,  science and culture; but the most important thing,  in the fields of education, science and culture, was  tc awaken a true spirit of international brotherhood,  and that task no country could accomplish alone.  It therefore fell to Unesco to undertake it. The  Organization's principal aim should be to enable the  large countries to give the less privileged nations  the help they so badly needed. The defence budgets  of the different Member States of Unesco together  totalled $100,000, 000,000, The proposal under  consideration aimed at obtaining from Member  States the $20, 000, 000 that several delegations  deemed necessary in order to carry out a pro-  gramme worthy of Unesco and of the generous  minds in which it had been conceived some years  ago. It would be discouraging indeed if that  proposal were rejected.
(29) Mr. SALIM (Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan)  assured the delegate of Brazil, who had referred  to the increased contributions of some small  countries, that they would be welcomed by his own,  not as a sacrifice, but as a token of its appreciation  of the Organization's aims and objectives. He added  that on pages 246-8 of the draft programme and  budget it was seen that 40% of the total budget was   IV-9 PROGRAMME AND  spent ¢ . establishment posts and administration,  whereas only 15% of the increase in the higher level  budget would be spent in that way. Therefore the  services Unesco would render Member States  amounted to 85% of the $2,000,000 increase envisaged.
(30) Mr. BENDER (Netherlands) explained his  country's position, which had been the same as that  taken by the Norwegian delegation. The Netherlands  had approached Unesco with some reserve at first,  but after study of Unescu's work it considered that  the Organization was developing normally and that  new contributions should be used to finance that  natural growth. He therefore supported the four-  State amendment.
(31) Dr. MUDALIAR (India) welcomed the opposite  points of view that had been expressed, and felt that  countries like his own appreciated the point of view  of the Director-General better than those like the  United Kingdom, who were not in such great need  of help from the Organization.
(32) The United Kingdom delegate had suggested that  the well being of the world should not te identified  with the expansion of an international organization.  But Unesco was a catalytic agent. The Ministers of  Finance in Member States had been influenced by the  ideals presented by Unesco. Not much more was  being asked of Member States now. The delegate of  India was very happy to hear the assurance of the  delegate of Jordan in that respect.
(33) Reference had also been made to the changed  rôle of the Executive Board, but the speaker was  convinced that the new Board would continue to take  the same view of its responsibility to the General  Conference as in the past, even if it varied in its  responsibility to Member States.
(34) The delegate of India thought that the Conference  should not be too precise in fixing the items to be  reduced and increased, but, referring to the remarks  made by the delegate of the Union of South Africa on  staff travel, he said the recent trip of the Director-  General with the Chairman of the Executive Board  had been of great assistance to Member States in  getting to know the Organization. Replying to a  remark of the French delegate, he thought reference  to military budgets should be avoided,
(35) He concluded by saying that, in relation to the  total population of the world, the proposed budget at  the higher level would cost 1,05 cents per head.
(36) The Indian delegation supported the four-State  amendment to the Director-General's original  proposal without hesitation.
(37) Mr. BARBEY (Switzerland) announced that,  although he had at first been inclined to support the  proposal of the Director-General and the Executive  Board, he was thenceforth prepared to accept the  proposal in Jucument 8C/DR/92, fixing the maximum  assessment level at $20,000, 000.
(38) Mr. SPILHAUS (United States of America)  repeated the general position of his delegation. It  had first proposed that the budget should be kept at  the 1953-54 level, around $18,000,000. It did not  consider the accession of new members a reason for  a higher budget, but, since the remodelling of the  - 318 -     BUDOET COMMISSION  programme for the 1955-56 period was now  envisaged, it had changed its view, and would  support an increase, but only a moderate one,  since any increase would be an imposition ox the  smaller countries and would have repercussions on  the other United Nations Agencies.
(39) The United States of America took a middle of  the road position. It would vote against any budget  below $18,000, 000 and therefore against the United  Kingdom proposal, It would abstain on $18, 000, 000,  it would support any increase up to and including  $20, 000, 000 and therefore supported the proposal  of the delegation of Norway and, failing that, the  four-State proposal. And it would cppose any  proposal of over $20, 000, 000,
(40) Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia) said that, in 1952,  governments in favour of the lower budget ceiling  had informed the Conference that their instructions  were due to financial stringency in their countries.  Sir Ben Bowen Thomas had announced the willingness  of his government, when the world situation  improved, to increase its contribution. The  situation had improved, the contribution of those  countries had decreased, some smaller countries  were required - and were ready - to pay more, a  remodelled programme had been worked out, and  still the Conference was faced by those unwilling  countries. The delegate of Liberia was flabber-  gasted. His Government, he concluded, fully  supported the four-State proposal.
(41) Mr. BERNAL JIMENEZ (Colombia) could not  understand the proposal, which had been made at  the time when the present session of the General  Conference was being prepared, that the contributions  of new Member States should be used to reduce the  contributions of other Member States. He thought  it logical that advantage should be taken of the new  contributions to improve certain of Unesco's  activities, such as technical aid, scientific  co-operation, etc,
(42) At a previous meeting, the Colombian  delegation had disagreed with a proposal of the  Director-General that he be given authority to  invest those new contributions until the beginning of  the two-year period 1957-58. The speaker would  not maintain his opposition, because the oroposal  at present under discussion, presented by Brazil  and other delegations, was a proposal likely to  give fresh impulse to Unesco's activities.
(43) Mr. Bernal Jimenez pointed out to the United  States delegation that the fixing of the amount of  contributions was closely connected with the change  in the structure of the Executive Board; therefore,  those who seconded the United States proposal  would wish the United States delegation to follow  their lead in dealing with the problem of the use  to be made of the contributions of new Member  States,
(44) The Colombian delegate would vote  against any proposal to stabilize the budget  at its present level, for he believed it  essential for Unesco to grow if it were  not to become paralysed; in other words,  it should be a dynamic, and not a static,  organization.   PROGRAMME AND
(45) Mr, PHOTIADES (Greece), like the United States  delegate, was ready to accept any figure not less than  $18,000,000 and not more than $20, 000, 000, In that  connexion, he remarked that it should be possible for  Unesco to cut down its expenditure to some extent by  further improving its administrative methods and  delegating certain tasks to the international non-  governmental organizations best able to carry them  out successfully.
(46) Although Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) was ready to  vote for the proposal in document 8C/DR/92, it was  not because his country would be one of the first to  benefit from an increase in Unescc's budget. In his  opinion, however, the generosity displayed by  certain Member States towards the people in tncir  charge should continue to be shown by Unesco itself,  Only an international organization like Unesco could  ensure that all the poorer countries benefited from  the aid of the more privileged. The sum mentioned  in document 8C/DR/92 was certainly not too large,  if Unesco were to accomplish that task successfully.
(47) Mrs. PINTO DE VIDAL (Uruguay) znnounced  that she would vote for the Brazilian proposal. A  small country like Uruguay had faith in Unesco and  placed hope in its activities. The worst thing that  could happen would be for Unesco to be left without  sufficient money to carry out its task. Mernber  States should not apply the brakes to Unescoswork  for economic reasons, If such countries were  obliged to go to war because they had stopped  Unesco's cultural and pacific activities, it would  cost them far more, especially in human lives,  which were a country's most valuable possession.
(48) Mr. AL-HILLI (Iraq) said that, as long as  there were underdeveloped countries, the views  expressed by the meeting would continue, as at  previous Conferences, to diverge, He supportea the  amendment submitted by the four States in favour  of the higher budget ceiling.
(49) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) wished to reply to  some of the remarks made during the debate, If,  as the Canadian delegate had said, the programme  for 1955-56 was a transitional one, only partly  reflecting the recommendations made by the  Executive Board with a view to a complete remodel-  ling of Unesco's programme, the corresponding  budget ought tu be relatively large. Before venturing  in new directions, Unesco would have to start by  completing projects which it intended eventually to  abandon, and that would entail heavy expenditure.
(50) In reply to the delegate of Belgium, Mr,  Haguiwara pointed out that Unesco's budgetary  situation was somewhat different from that of the  United Nations, which did not have to supply direct  technical aid out of its own budget, since the  Expanded Programme of Technical Assistance did  BUDGET     COMMISSION IV-9  not come under the United Nations budget.
(51) In conclusion, Mr. Haguiwara drew the  Commission's attention to the last paragraph of  document 8C/PRG/13 (Remodelling of the future  programme of Unesco), which read:  "Now that, after early trials and experiments,  the direction of Unesco's future activities can be  more clearly discerned, the attention of govern-  ments should be drawn to the desirability of  increasing the budget of the Orgamzation so that  it can carry out more effectively, more rapidly  and on a wider scale the task which the peoples  of the world have ‘he right to expect of at. "
(52) After a brief discussion on the procedure to  be followed in voting on the various proposals that  had just been discussed, the Commission  authorized the Chairman to put the proposals to  the vote in the following order:  United Kingdom proposal (decument 8C/DR/71  amended);  Norwegian proposal (document 8C/DR/101);  Joint proposal of Brazil, Egypt, France and  Japan (documents 8C/DR/91 and 8C/DR/92);  Proposal of the Director-General, approved by  the Executive Board.
(53) Put to the vote, the United Kingdom proposal  was reJected by 36 votes to 14, with 5 abstentions,
(54) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) then  asked if he might warn the Commission of the  dangers of the Norwegian proposal. He urged the  Commission once again not to approve any figure  lower than the $20,000, 000 advocated in document
8C/DR/92, and he paid tribute to the small  countries, which had refrained from opposing the  Brazilian proposal, despite the additional burden  its adoption would impose upon them.
(55) The Norwegian proposal was next put to the  vote and rejected by 36 votes to 24, with 1  abstention,
(56) The CHAIRMAN then put to the vote the joint  proposal submitted by Brazil, Egypt, France and  Japan.
(57) That proposal was adopted by 41 votes to 12,  with 3 abstentions.
(58) The CHAIRMAN stated that the figures  resulting from the adoption of the joint proposal  would be inserted in document 8C/ADM/33, where  blank spaces had been left. He then invited the  Commission to approve document 8C/ADM/33.
(59) Document BC/ADM/33 was approved.  The meeting rose at 6 p.m.  - 319 -