2 December 1951 at 10 a.m,  Chairman. Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland)  ITEM 8. 4.4 OF REVISED AGENDA: CULTURAL  ACTIVITIES (continued)  International Union of Architects (paragrap.:3 46-48)  (continued)
(1) Mr. BRICHET (France) said, that in view of the  Secretariat's observations, the French delegation  was withdrawing its proposal to 1... =ase the  subvention to $5, 000.
(2) However, he again affirmed that the International  Union of Architects was inadequately endowed to  carry out the research and general enquiries implied  in its programme, and he asked the Secretariat, in  the form of a proposal, not to lose sight of the  necessity of increasing that subvention, as far as  credits allowed, in 1956 if possible, and to bear those  indications in mind when future programmes were  being drawn up.
(3) Mr. MARDONES RESTAT (Chile) pointed out that  it was the Chilean and not the French delegation  which had asked for the budget of the International  Union of Architects to be increased.
(4) It appeared that Unesco considered libraries,  museums and archives to be more important than the  work of creative artists. It was however true that  town planners had a heavy task before them; the  World Population Conference, held in Rome, had  stated that in the next 25 years the world population  would increase by a thousand million; which meant  that within that {ime-limit, nine new cities the size  of Montevideo would have to be built.
(5) The International Union of Architects was  certainly not begging for a subvention for its own-  existence, but because it hoped to serve Unesco aims  better.
(6) As many speakers had asked for the time-limit  on speeches to be extended beyond three minutes,  the CHAIRMAN put the question to the vote.
(7) Rejected by 14 votes against 14, with 20  abstentions.
(8) The Chilean delegate having asked for another  vote to be taken, that proposal was also voted upon,  according to the usual procedure, and was rejected  by 20 votes against 17.
(9) The French proposal, seconded by the delega-  tions of Italy and the United Kingdom. was approved  by 33 votes against 1, with 3 abstentions.    International PEN Club (paragrapiis 49-51)
(10) Miss BOLLO (Uruguay) voiced her country's  hope that the PEN Clubs would be encouraged as far  as possible in their very important work by a larger  subvention than that granted in the draft Programme  and Budget for 1955-56.
(11) Mr. PANNETON (Canada) was diametrically  opposed to that course. The International PEN Club  grouped a small number of persons whose literary  fame and success ensured them against hardship.
(12) He would be in favour of a subvention of one  dollar as a token of the respect that body deserved,  but he thought that the $4, 000 a year could be  devoted to more important tasks.
(13} Mr. WADIA (India) regretted that there was  opposition to renewing the subvention for the  International PEN Club, as he had intended to propose  that it should be increased.
(14) With regard to the proposed meetings, while he  agreed that the autonomy of international organiza-  tions must be resgerted, he considered that Unesco,
1n providing subventions, had the right to make  suggestions. He accordingly proposed that the next  meeting of the International PEN Club should be held  in Asia, and extended an invitation on behalf of his  Government. He urged that the subvention should be  continued; :onferences were costly and leading  intellectuals were not always wealthy.
(15) Mr. MENDIS (Ceylon) asked whether Ceylon  was included among the six Asian countries mentioned  in paragraph 49 as possessing PEN Clubs. If not,  he would oppose the subvention, and support the  Canadian delegate's proposal.
(16) Mr. DE SALIS (Switzerland) was of the same  opinion as the Canadian delegate. Although he did  not wish to pass judgment on the value of the  Interuational PEN Club, he wondered whether it was  really necessary for Unesco to subsidize a body  which had been functioning so satisfactorily for over  thirty years.
(17) Miss NEFFA (Lebanon) thought that Unesco  should exercise greater influence over the activities  of PEN Clubs, so as to make them really inter-  national, She suggested that the proposed subvention  for 1955 and 1956 should be used to achieve a wider  distribution of the Bulletin in various languages and  to obtain, geographically, better cultural  representation.  - 424 -   PROGRAMME AND
(18) Mr. SUZUKI (Japan) appreciated the interesting  proposal by the Indian delegate, although he thought  it was perhaps for the International PEN Club to  decide where 1t would meet.
(19) Mr. FLORES AGUIRRE (Mexico) thought 1t  would be more useful to use the subvention proposed  for 1955 and 1956 for instituting an international  prize to reward the work that PEN Clubs did in  forwarding Unesco's aims.
(20) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultura! Activities) drew the Commission's attention  to document 8C/ADM/20 on the employment of  subventions granted to international non-governmental  organizations (quadrennial review by the Executive  Board).
(21) In reply to the question from the delegate of  Ceylon, Mr. Thomas explained that Ceylon did not  figure in the list of countries in which the Interna-  tional PEN Club was represented by national centres.  Although there were not PEN Club committees in  every country, they were spread very widely over  the earth's surface.
(22) With regard to the purposes of the subvention,  Mr. Thomas gave the following information: in the  main, 1t helped with the publication of a quarterly  bulletin which provided information on books that had  come out 1n a great number of countries, especially  those in languages that were not widely spoken, it  also defrayed some of the expenses Incurred by the  meeting of the PEN Club's annual congress.
(23) In addition, the PEN Club collaborated with  Unesco in selecting contemporary works of various  countries that it would be highly desirable to  translate into widely spoken languages.
(24) Mr. PAIK (Korea) said that a PEN Club now  existed in his country, but it was possible that a  report had not yet been made to headquarters. He  accordingly supported the continuance of the  subvention.
(25) A vote was taken on the resolution of the  Canadian delegate, supported by the delegates of  Switzerland, the German Federal Republic and Spain.
(26) The resolution was rejected by 13 votes to 25  with 12 abstentions.  International Association of the Visual Arts  (paragraphs 52-54) and document 8C/DR/30
(27) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commis-  sion) informed the Commission that the Advisory  Committee did not recommend approving DR/30,  submitted by the Italian delegation.
(28) Mr. UNGARETTI (Italy) emphasized the neces-  sity of giving that recen*ly created organization all  the help it needed to carry through the difficult tasks  incumbent upon it and which were already well under  way.
(29) Although the Italian delegation considered that  the annual subvention should be double what had been  provided for, it only proposed an increase of $2,00C  a year and recommended that offices should be made  - 425 -     BUDGET COMMISSION 17-23  avallable to the International Association of the  Visual Arts in Unesco House.
(30) Mr. BRICHET (France) pointed out to the  Commission that the Association could offer Unesco  very useful collaboration.
(31) When future programmes were drawn up, not  only an increase in subventions, but more contracts,  should be provided for.
(32) Travelling exhibitions had shown the cultural  importance of colour reproductions, for instance.  Previously that field had been reserved to private  publishers, who naturally concentrated on repro-  ducing works that were readily saleable. The  Association of the Visual Arts could do something  towards getting certain periods and schools of  pictorial art better represented than they were and  toward bringing artists to collaborate more directly  in the making of reproductions. It could also help  to lower prices, which were still far too high.
(33) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) was of the  same opinion as the Italian and French delegates.
(34) The International Association of the Visual Arts  had managed in a very short time to gain the support  of a great number of Member States. Its congress  had had very practical results. The vitality of the  Association and it3 carefully worked out plan of  activities amply justified the aid proposed for it,  which would enable it to reach artists, often working  in isolation, in many parts of the world,
(35) Mr. MATIC (Yugoslavia) was of the same  opinion as the three preceding speakers. The  Association had filled a gap and it was Unesco's duty  to help at in its early stages.
(36) Mr. Matic then informed the Commission that a  committee had been set up in Yugoslavia grouping  most Yugoslav artists.
(37) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) said that the  Association had already been granted a subvention  and the proposal therefore had no budgetary implica-  tions. The Executive Board had discussed the  merits of the proposal and, since its object appeared  to be to strengthen support for the Director-General's  programme and budget, had decided to recommend  its adoption.
(38) Mr. SUZUKI (Japan) supported the Italian  proposal.
(39) Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom) said  that there was insufficient evidence to justify support  for such a new association. Two observers from  the United Kingdom had attended the Association's  last meeting, but had not been sent any report on it.  The subvention was already a large one, and Unesco  should be cautious in increasing subventions without  adequate justification.
(40) Mr. HOPE (United States of America) said that  the National Commission in his country believed  in the importance for Unesco of securing the active  support of creative artists. As an art historian, he  reminded the Commission that artists were judged  not as human or political beings but by the quality of   IV-23 PROGRAMME AND  their work. The problem facing Unesco was, there-  fore, whether the setting up of an international  organization would ensure the co-operation of the  best artists from every country In the opinion of  the United States Government the organization being  discussed was a worthy experiment, and he hoped  Unesco would be able to find the means to encourage  the best artists to participate, so that it would not  become one more bureaucracy.
(41) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) disagreed with the  United Kingdom delegate; he thought that IAVA had  already proved its worth.
(42) The Belgian delegation strongly endorsed the  Italian delegate's proposal, particularly in regard to  the granting of offices so that LA VA's secretariat  could function.
(43) Mr. BARRENECHEA PINO (Chile) said that his  delegation warmly supported not only the proposed  subvention to the International Association of the  Visual Arts, but a larger one, as he believed that  in that way an effective stimulus would be given to  heroes of culture who, more often than not, were  struggling to create alone and in poverty.
(44) Seconded by various countries, the Italian  proposal to increase IAVA's annual subvention from  $6,000 to $8,000, was rejected by 20 votes against
20, with 8 abstentions.
(45) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural  Activities) informed the Italian and Belgian delegates  that the JAVA secretariat had long had offices at  Unesco House.
(46) Mr. BRICHET (France) wanted to know what  the Unesco Secretariat's policy was as regarded  contracts with IAVA.
(47) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural  Activities) assured Mr. Brichet that the Secretariat  was anxious to collaborate with IAVA and had noted  what the French delegation had said. However, one  could not forecast the tendency of future programmes.
(48) For the rest, there was already collaboration  between Unesco and IAVA, which had been consulted  on the setting up of a committee of experts for the  selection of colour reproductions for the two  catalogues.
(49) DR/30, submitted by the Italian delegation,  was approved, as regards the work plan, by 24 votes  against 0, with 13 abstentions,  International Federation of Library Associations  (paragraphs 55-57)
(50) Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland), speaking as  observer and chairman of that body reminded the  Commission that the Federation had existed for a  quarter of a century, that its activity had never  relaxed and that its work was of benefit to everyone.
(51) The credits granted were of course much  smaller than the amount requested - especially as  $1,500 of the $2, 400 were for the purpose of  organizing a joint congress with other institutions.  - 426 -     BUDGET COMMISSION  But the Federation was well aware that Unesco  had done what it could.
(52) However, Mr. Bourgeois wanted two observa-  tions to be recorded:
1. The basic rôle of libraries in the functioning  of any scientific and cultural organization was not  sufficiently stressed in the programme.
2. When committees were convened and when  international organizations met, the Federation  would like to be represented by an observer - at its  own expense of course.
(53) Mr. BRANCA (Italy) wished to endorse Mr.  Bourgeois' remarks; the Italian delegation was  conscious of the extremely important part libraries  played in the intellectual life of the whole world.
(54) Mr. THA HLA (Union of Burma) asked whetner  Burma was a member of the International Federation  of Library Associations. The Federation was of  great interest to his country, where two important  libraries were being built: an international Buddhist  library, which would be of value to the whole world,  and a national library, which would be of use to  South East and South Asian countries. He was  strongly in favour of Unesco's support for the  Federation.
(55) The CHAIRMAN said that no library association  in the Burmese Union was affiliated with the Interna-  tional Federation, which intended, however, to  extend its action to many countries not yet in its ranks.
(56) As for the other quesiions, they did not come  within the discussion of the programme, but Mr.  Bourgeois expressed his willingness to answer them  at the end of the meeting.
(57) Mr. BRICHET (France) agreed with what Mr.  Bourgeois had said as chairman of the International  Federation of Library Associations.
(58) He insisted that Unesco must collaborate with  that Federation, and wanted to know by what  criteria the International Association of Music  Libraries was being granted a subvention of $3,000  while the Federation was to have only $2, 400.
(59) Mr. MATIC (Yugoslavia) said that the Yugoslav  delegation endorsed the observations made by Mr.  Bourgeois and the delegates of Italy and France.
(60) Mr. CASSANI (Argentina) said that his delega-  tion was in agreement with Mr. Bourgeois' wishes  and with the support he gave to the petition for the  International Federation of Library Associations;  Argentina would vote in favour of any increase  designed to encourage artistic and literary activities.
(61) Mr. GUTIERREZ PALACIOS (Chile) warmly  supported Mr. Bourgeois! point of view and hoped  that library associations in Spanish America would  also as far as possible be admitted to membership  of the International Federation; the work of those  associations had gained greatly in importance in the  last ten years.
(62) Mr. TVETERAS (Norway) supported the  statement made by the representative of the   PROGRAMME AND  International Federation of ".ibrary Associations,  the work of which was of importance to librarians  all over the world. Although it was not appropriate  to increase the subvention at the present time, he  hoped that it would be possible to do so at the next  General Conference so that co-operation between the  Federation and Unesco could be extended and  intensified.
(63) Mr. DE LOS SANTOS (Philippines) said that his  delegation not only supported the French motion to  maintain the proposed subvention to the International  Federation of Library Associations but would like  to see it increased as far as possible.
(64) Miss BOLLO (Uruguay) stated that Uruguay also  gave its warm support *o what Mr. Bourgeois had  said.
(65) Mrs. PECSON, speaking as observer for the  International Federation of University Women, said  that the members of the Federation looked on the  library movement as an important element in the  work for peace through education, science and  culture, especially in war-devastated countries,  where so much cultural material had been destroyed.  It was also an important factor in the successful  collaboration of the intellectual élite. Libraries  were not only an essential aid to fundamental educa-  tion; they were the depositories of man's thought  for future generations, and the means of dissemina-  ting knowledge of the culture and inherited traditions  which were the pride of each nation. She urged that  the International Federation of Library Associations  shouldbe given its proper status and that Unesco  should grant it a subvention of not less than $5, 000  yearly.
(66) The CHAIRMAN said that three countries of  Latin America (including Uruguay) were represented  in the International Federation of Library  Associations,
(67) For the 1955 congress, the Federation had sent  out 3, 000 invitations, including many to non-members,  for it was ever anxious to extend its action in all  directions.
(68) Returning to the question of subventions, the  Chairman reaffirmed his conviction that the Secre-  tariat had distributed credits in the best possible way.  He was sure that the Director-General would bear  the Federation's needs in mind when future pro-  grammes were being drawn up, and he hoped that  contracts would be concluded that would allow the  Federation to undertake work of great value to Unesco.
(69) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL regretted that he  w "unable to speak as an observer, since he was no  longer a member of any of the organizations in  question. As Director-General, however, he  assured Mr, Bourgeois in his capacities of Chairman  of the Commission and observer for the Federation  that every effort would be made to : ecognize the  quality and significance of IFLA's work and that he  would keep in mind what had been said during the  discussion.
(70) Paragraphs 55-57 were adopted unanimously.  - 427 -     BUDGET COMMISSION IV-23  International Federation for Documentation  (paragraphs 58-60)
(71) Adopted unanimously.  Intey national Council on Archives (paragraphs 61-63)
(72) Adopted unanimously.  International Association of Music Libraries  (paragraphs 64-66)
(73) Mr. SALIM (Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan)  regretted that, through no fault of their own, interna-  tional organizations were not always completely  international, since many underdeveloped countries  were not able to participate in their activities. On  behalf of those less fortunate countries, he urged  that ways should be found of satisfying their interest  in the work of international organizations and their  wish to be informed of activities, receive publications  and send observers to meetings. It was important  for Unesco to use every endeavour to see that th  work and the representation of international organiza-  tions extended to the whole world.
(74) Mr. BRICHET (France) again asked for an  explanation of the difference between the subventions  granted to the International Federation of Library  Associations and to the International Association of  Music Libraries. What criteria had been adopted?
(75) The CHAIRMAN replied that the International  Association of Music Libraries had undertaken a  very big task of musical research - the preparation  and publication of an international directory of  musical sources.
(76) He added in passing that the Association had  been invited to become a section of the Federation -  while retaining its autonomy - in the same way as  other library associations, such as those nthe  fields of the medical and agricultural sciences.
(77) With regard to the criteria on which the amount  of subventions was based, Mr. THOMAS (Director,  Department of Cultural Activities) supplied the  following data: the Secretariat did not take the  requests as a basis, even though they might be very  well founded; the main consideration was thoroughly  worked out plans for particular projects, such as  that for the publication of an international directory  of musical sources being undertaken jointly by the  International Association of Music Libraries and the  International Society for Musical Research.
(78) The Secretariat was also guided by decisions  made by the General Conference at earlier sessions.
(79) Finally, the liaison between different interna-  tional organizations, referred to in paragraph 68,  and the meetings Unesco convened each year and  which enabled the international organizations and  Unesco to acquaint themselves with each other's  programmes were also determining factors.
(80) Mr. DE SALIS (Switzerland) was surprised  that the International Society for Musical Research  should receive credits under three different heads.  He realized that those subventions were granted for   IV-23 PROGRAMME AND  different projects, but he thought there was a dis-  proportion in the allocations, particularly if one  remembered the regrets expressed at the small  share that had fallen to the International Union of  Architects.
(81) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural  Activities) corrected the facts as put by the Swiss  delegate.
(82) The International Society for Musical Research  received only two subventions - one through the  International Council for Philosophy and Human’stic  Studies, for collaborating in the publication of the  International Directory of Musical Sources, which  would take several years; and one small subvention  of $500 through the International Music Council for  the regular publication of the bulletin Acta  Musicolégica.
(83) In reply to the Chinese delegate's suggestion  that Unesco should concern itself with securing wide  usage for a uniform system of musical notation, the  CHAIRMAN recommended that the delegate submit  that question Jirectly to the Secretariat, for it lay  outside the programme.
(84) (A) International Organizations was unauimously  approved.  (B) and (C), paragraphs 67-71
(85) Mr UNGARETTI (Italy)said that the Conference  of Artists held in Venice in 1952 had decided that an  International Council of Arts and Letters would be  set up after the International Association of the  Visual Ar:s had been founded. The Italian delegation  saw no reason for that council not being set up.
(86) Mr. THOMAS (Director of Cultural Activities)  reminded the Italian delegate that the proposal to  set up the Council had given rise to confused and  contradictory votes.
(87) Moreover, the consultations the Secretariat  had had with Member States had revealed the  scepticism with which many of them viewed the 1dea.  The international non-governmental organizations  were on the whole more sympathetic, but one or two  of them had expressed great reserve. On that  account the Secretariat had not ventured to submit the  project in 1954 and only suggested a grant for the  setting up of a provisional liaison committee.
(88) Mr. UNGARETTI (Italy) then asked for the  proposal to set up an International Council of Arts  and Letters to be submitted to the General Conference  at the following session.
(89) Sections (B) and (C) were unanimously approved.  Project 4.12: Co-ordination of bibliographical  services and exchanges of information (paragraphs
(90) Mr. GUTIERREZ PALACIOS (Chile) said that  both the Unesco Libraries Division and Mr. Penna,  the expert at the Regional Office in Havana, deserved  to be warmly congratulated on the work they had done.  - 428 -  BUDGET COMMISSION  Further, in view of the very great importance for  Latin American countries of the information con-  tained in the Unesco Bulletin for Libraries, his  delegation considered that the budgetary estimate  for that publication should be maintained, if not  increased.
(91) Mr. BRICHET (France) said that any interrup-  tion of the Index Translationum was unacceptable.  That work, which had a vital rôle to play, had  aroused keen interest in intellectual circles. Sub-  ventions should be maintained at a level adequate to  keep the undertaking going in 1955 and 1956.
(92) The CHAIRMAN said that the International  Federation of Library Associations had said the  same thing to the Secretariat.
(93) Mr. GOMEZ HOYOS (Colombia) seconded the  delegation of Chile in their congratulations and also  requested that the publication and credits of the  Unesco Bulletin for Libraries should not be reduced.
(94) Mr. BARDALES (Honduras) also praised the  Bulletin and asked that the credits for its publication  should be maintained.
(95) Miss BOLLO (Uruguay) supported the request  put forward by Chile, Colombia and Honduras that  the Bulletin should continue to be published exactly  as before.
(96) Mr. MONTALVO (Ecuador) was in complete  agreement with what the preceding speakers had said  and asked that the budgetary level for the Bulletin  for 1955-56 should be raised.
(97) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) said that, in order to keep on  publishing the Unesco Bulletin for Libraries in its  present form, the Libraries Division would require  another $1, 500.
(98) The Secretariat, when it had proposed a  reduction, had counted on the development of national  bodies able to take over a part of the contents of the  Bulletin.
(99) It was not impossible that the Organization of  American States might give the Bulletin the aid it  had offered for the Handbook on the International  Exchanges of Publications.
(100) The proposal to maintain the credits necessary  for the publication of the Unesco Bulletin for Libraries  was approved by 24 votes against 6, with 13  abstentions.
(101) Resolution 4.12, as amended, was then  unanimously approved.  Project 4.13: Implementation of international  conventions and preparation of international agree-  ments (paragraphs 84-100) and documents 8C/PRG/4,  DR/45, DR/49 and DR/26
(102) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commis-  sion) said that the Advisory Committee recommended  the adoption of draft resolution DR/45 with the   PROGRAMME AND  $3,000 increase in credits they involved.
(103) Mr. ESTELRICH (Spain) recalled that, on the  basis of the recommendation which the Provisional  Copyright Committee had made to the Director-  General in May 1954, his country had offered to  collaborate very closely with Unesco in publishing  a compilation of copyright laws of the world in  Spanish, consequently he hoped that there would be  no opposition to the request to increase the credits  required by $3, 000.  DR/26: Irdex Translationum
(104) The draft resolution which had been submitted  by the Italian delegation and which had been favour-  ably recommended by the Executive Board, was  unanimously approved, after being warmly seconded  by the delegations of France, Lebanon, Chile, the  German Federal Republic, Ecuador and the United  Kingdom.
(105) Miss BOLLO (Uruguay) emphasized the  importance of the Index Translationum; her country  wanted new translations to be made both of ancient  and of modern famous works, amongst them, of the  works of Rodo and Vaz Ferreira.
(106) Resolution 4.132, amended to conform with  document 8C/DR/45 and seconded by the Italian  delegation, was approved.  DR/49. Right of creative workers and research  workers
(107) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commis-  sion) said that the Advisory Committee on Programme  and Budget had asked for clarification before taking  a decision on that proposed by the Uruguayan  delegation,
(108) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) said that the  Executive Board had not been ir favour of the resolu-  tion in its existing form but was prepared to  reconsider it if amended or redrafted.
(109) There being no seconder, the resolution was  not put to the vote.
(110) Mr. UNGARETTI (Italy) explained the Italian  delegation's position on three points concerning  copyright:  - 429 -     BUDGET COMMISSION IV-23  (a) Unesco must draw Member States attention  to the matter of "double taxation", so that a general  convention might be adopted regarding it;  (b) Italy was prepared to take part in a wide  exchange of television programmes provided  copyrights were respected;  (c) A beginning had yet to be made in the matter  of copyrights in the field of the visual arts.
(111) Mrs. SCHLUETER-HERMKES (German  Federal Republic) congratulated the Department of  Cultural Activities, and the Copyright Division in  particular, on the work it had done for the universal  convention.
(112) That work had to be successfully completed.  The various texts of the law on copyright would have  to be published not only in English, French and  Spanish, but in each national language, since in legal  texts shades of meaning were very important.
(113) Paragraphs 85-100 were unanimously  approved.
(114) The CHAIRMAN informed the Commission of  the sudden death of Mr. César Bolaa, Director of  Administrative Services at the Legislative Palace,  who was responsible for getting the meeting rooms  ready for the Confererce.
(115) Mr. Bolaña, by his untiring efforts, had made  it possible for Unesco's General Conference to meet  under the best possible conditions.
(116) The Chairman, on behalf of the Commission,  expressed his sympathy with Mr. Bolaña's family in  their bereavement and his gratitude to the deceased.  (The meeting stood and observed a minute's  silence.)
(117) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that the  Secretariat, even more than the members of the  Commission or Conference delegates, knew of the  intensive efforts which had been needed to adapt the  Palacio Legislativo to the purposes of the Unesco  General Conference. He wished to associate  himself with the tribute paid to Seflor BolaXa.
(118) Miss BOLLO (Uruguay), in the name of her  country, thanked the Commission for their  condolences upon the death of Mr. Julio César Bolaña.  The meeting rose at 12.55 p.m.