5 November 1954 at 10 a.m.  Chairman : Mr. GARDNFR DAVIES (Australia)  ITEM 7.2 OF THE AGENDA: PRELIMINARY CONSIDERATION  OF THE DRAFT PROGRAMME AND BUDGET FOR 1933-36,  BEFORE THE OPENING OF THE BESSION (continued)  CULTURAL ACTIVITIES (continued)  Project 4.13: Paragraphs 84-100
(1) Mr. LEE (United States of America) suggested  that, in order that the resolution contained in para-  graph 86 should authorize the studies proposed inpa-  ragraph 93, it would be advisable to insert, after the  words "Armed Conflict", in line 3, the words: "for  the study ¢ certain special copyright problems".
(2) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural  Activities) agreed with Mr. Lee and proposed to Join  with him in working out & clearer wording of the  resolution.
(3) Mr, LEE (United States of America) was of the  opinion that the study of the rights of scientists should  be referred ‘o another Department, and although he  considered the kind of activities mentioned in (c) and  {d) useful, he would propose that these paragraphs be  deleted from the programme for the present, in view  of the general principle of concentration which his  Government advocated.
(4) Mr. CABOUAT (France) asked Mr. Lee if he was  alluding to the studies of special copyright problems  dealt with in paragraphs 93-97, or if he had in mind  other studies on the question. In the latter case  close co-operation should be established with the in-  terested organizations. In Europe the Berne Union  should be consulted; copyright questions were also  dealt with in the Council of Europe.
(5) The CHAIRMAN understood that the change sug-  gested by the delegate of the United States of America  was intended to cover the proposed studies only.
(6) Mr. LEE (United States of America) had no other  study in mind, He agreed with the delegate of France  in his desire that full use shculd be made of research  carried out elsewhere.
(7) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) took the oppor-  tunity of expressing his country's gratification on  learning that the United States of America had  ratified the International Copyright Convention. It  was a major event in publishing history, and he  found it very satisfactory that itshouldhavebeen  achieved under the auspices of Unesco. If such    a thing had happened 150 years ago, Sir Walter Scott  would have died a rich man,
(8) Mr. LEE (United States of America) agreed that  it had been an admirable function for Unesco to  perform.
(9) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) asked the United Kingdom  delegate if his country had already ratified the  International Copyright Convention.
(10) Mr. COWELL (United Kirgdom) replied that his  country had long been a member of the Berne Copy-  right Convention. The differences between the two  agreements were small, and were in process of  adjustment.
(11) Mr. THOMAS (Direciwor, Department of Cultural  Activities) drew the attention of the United States dele-  gate to the amended version of paragraphs 91-98(8C/5  Corr.), which had been prepared after the first meet-  ing of the Provisional Copyright Committee and was  based on its recommendations.
(12) Mr. LEE (United States of America) agreed that  the changes intrnduced by the corrigendum were a  considerable improvement.  CHAPTER 2: NATURAL SCIENCES
(13) The CHAIRMAN welcomed Mr. Auger, Director  of the Department of Natural Sciences, and asked him  to introduce the programme proposed under this  chapter.
(14) Mr. AUGER (Direc'er, Department of Natural  Sciences) drew attention to the two sections of his De-  partment's programme and budget. Section was  mainly concerned with permanent activities. For
1955-56 provision had been made for only one new ac  tivity - the International Geophysical Year - which  would have to be continued in 1957-58. In 1955 Un-  esco was to contribute towards the establishment of a  permanent Secretariat for that project. It had been  put forward in 1951 by the Bureau of the International  Council of Sicientific Unions (ICSU), which had set up  a Preparatory Committee; National Committees had  been established in 13 countries. That activity af-  forded a fine instance of world-wide co-operation in  the field of science.
(15) Section II consisted of planned activities in the  field of scientific research and the teaching and dis-  semination of science. Mr, Auger drew special at-  tention to research on the arid zone, physical  - 689 -   VI-8 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  oceanograpl.y (the project on that s hject was to be  amended in the light of developments since the docu-  ment was drafted), the expanded programme for  science teaching, and the science co-operation offic :s,  which were decentralized units for carrying out the  natural sciences programme.
(16) The CHAIRMAN asked for general remarks on  the chapter as a whole.
(17) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) said that, on  principle, available resources should be applied to  existing organizations before new developments were  envisaged. He therefore proposed that more emphas-
1s should be laid on international co-operation in  scientific research at the expense of regional science  co-operation offices and the programme for the dis-  semination of science. The existing organizations  were doing a good deal of work in this last field. He  a!so considered that, at the higher budgetary level, a  disproportionate amount had been earmarked for the  teaching of science, at the expense of other sections.
(18) Mr, AVIDOR (Israel) set a high value on the  work in natural sciences in general. However, the  National Commission of Israel had grave misgivings  as to the advisability of keeping regional science co-  operation offices. Regional activities could be per-  formed just as well and often better by headquarters  in Paris, Moreover, the regional office system ter-  ded to become contagious. It had already spread to  the Department of Sccial Sciences.
(18) He agreed with the United Kingdom delegate that  the development of international co-operation was high-  ly important, as was also assistance to scientific re-  search, and he thought that these projects should be  strengthened at the expense of the regional offices.  The dissemination programme could be transferred  to the Department of Mass Communication, retaining  the funds for earmarking to research.
(20) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) disagreed with the fore-  going remarks. The programme of research and in-  ternational collaboration was important, but the popu-  larization of science should be considered as a high  priority activity,
(21) His Government intended to put forward a sepa-  rate resolution on nuclear energy. Unesco's efforis  in Europe in this field were not enough.
(22) Mr. SOEBROTO (Indonesia) said that, while the  remarks made uv the delegate of Israel on regional of-  fices might apr.iy to countries relatively near to Unes-  co headquarters, they were not true of distant regions  such as Asia. He suggested that the project for  science co-operation offices should be maintained for  distant countries,
(23) Mr. LEE (United States of America) reminded  the meeting of its present purpose of concentrating  the programme. This ch:pter could perhaps Le ta-  ken a little further in that direction. He would like  to have some indication whether or not projects were  set up with an eye on the possibility of their being  brought to an end at some definite stage.  i24) He also reminded the meeting that Un-  escn's true function was to stimulate activity,    and that it should not become involved in work that  Member States ought to be carrying out,
(25) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) said  that the new proposals would be considered later, With  regard to the science co-operation offices, he could  advance general arguments of wider relevance than  scientific co-operation and raising the general prob-  lem of decentralization of Unesco's activities, The  Committee might wish to arrange for a general disc s  sion of the problem of decentralization when it had fi-  nished discussing t..e programme and budget. He re-  commended the Committee to confine itself for the  time being to a consideration of the operation and  budget of those offices,
(26) The whole nf the science chapter was designedio  secure a balanced treatment of the varying needs of  *fember States.
(27) Mr. Maheu v shed to mention that in the course  of recent months he had had an opportunity of attend-  ing vari. us « o-ordinetion meetings of the United Na-  tions and Specialized Agencies and he had been struck  by the great effo .s being made !or the dissemination  of science in their respective fields by the Food and  Agriculture Organization «nd the World Health Orga-  nization. Much had been achieved, but the results  would not be lasting unless the general public in the  countries concerned had a general under sta~ding of  science. Unesco had the task of encouraging such  understanding.
(28) Frankly, he did not think that projects for the  dissemination of science could he transferred to the  Mass Communication Depa: tment; it was ess ntialiy  a specialized activity,
(29) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) assured the meeting that tt Director-Ge-  neral of Unesco was specially anxious to use existing  organizations for scientific co-operation rather than  set up new ones. For the arid zone there was an  Advisory Committee of nine members and no bureaucra-  tic machinery. The same method was being consi-  dered for oceanographic research, Whenever it wa.  possible to do without setting up new intergovernmen-  tal bodies, the opportunity should be taken, it had  not been possible to adopt that procedure for nuclear  research, but that subject was an exception,
(30) Unesco had one difficulty as regards the dissemi  nation of science. There were groups such as asso-  ciations for the advancement of science, but most of  them existed only at the national level and Unesco was  endeavouring to bring them together in international  federations.
(31) Obviously Unesco could not stand aloof from so  important a subject as nuclear research, but the Or-  ganization's work in that field could not be effective  until specialized scientists were able to work for  peaceful ends, unhampered by governmental restric-  tions. Great hopes could be placed on the projects  under consideration in the United Nations; Unesco  could intervene when the proper time came,
(32) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdomjenquired the purpose  of the sums for consultants mentioned inparagraph 16.
(33) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences} explained that the expenses listed in  - 680 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VI-E  paragraph 16 included an annual sum of $1,196 to pay  consultants whose advice was sought on the prepara-  tion of regional or international projects. The con-  sultations covered practical, clearly defined subjects  which could not always be foreseen. Those consulta-  tions had always been useful in the past and, 1f the  appropriation were cut, it would greatly hamper the  Department's activities.
(34) The CHAIRMAN asked on what basis the  consultants had been budgeted for.
(35) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Programme  and Budget) said that sums had been provided for one  consultant at $10 per diem for two weeks, and another  at $20 per diem for 4 weeks, with journeys based ona  medium distance from Paris.
(35) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) wondered whe-  ther similar arguments for the use of experts might  not be urged by other departments. He asked for a  careful consideration of the question, which had a  wide implication, Paid experts should not be enga-  ged for work that might be provided free by  non-governmental organizations,
(37) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) pointed out tnat his Department had always  been able to secure the services of consultants. If  other Unesco services had not followed that example  and requested similar funds, 1t was perhaps because  they did not need consultants. An overall picture or  general information could be obtained from non-gov-  ernmental orgamzations but the personal advice of  highly specialized consultants always seemed prefer -  sole before starting discussions with international  scientific organizations, as the Department of Natural  Sriences very often had to do.
(38) As there were no further comments, paragrapis
14-16 were approved.  Section I: 2.1 Development of International  Co-operation  Projec. 2.11: Co-operation with international  sc entific organizations (paragraphs 17-38)
(39) Mr. AUGER Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) referred to the orn of the Geophysical  Year and the efforts made to inaugurate that project.  It was the only new subvention his Department was re-  questing for the development of international scienti-  fic co-operation; .ne others raerely renewed the  assistance already granted in 1953-54,  Paragraphs 18-31: Subventions
(40) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) said that the Na-  tional Commission of the United Kingdom was in fav-  our of the subventions, but he suggested that  some bodies, particularly in the fields of me  dical science and engineering, might be able to  finance more and more of their own work. He  wished to stress the principle that all subven-  tions should gradually decrease with the passing  of years.
(41) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) drew the attention of the Committee to the  fact that comparatively small amounts were proposed  for the two organizations mentioned by the United  Kingdom delegate, For each budgetary year the subven-  tion requested for the Council of International Or gan:-  zations of Medical Sciences (CIOMS) amounted ‘o
318,000 and for the Union of International Engineering  Associations (UATI) to $12,000, The same amounis  had been granted in 1354 and were intended to promote  the international work of those two organizations. The  subvention proposed for the Union of International En-  gineering Associations was intended for the publication  of multilingual dictionaries.
(42) Mr. BOW (Canada) agreed with the United King-  dom delegate that subventions should taper off.  Paragraphs 32-38
(43) Mr. LEE (United States of America) thought that  assistance to the International Geophysical Year was  a very appropriate type of Unesco activity. He would  like to see more morey goto that item, if available,  in order to ensure its full implementation,
(44) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) supported the  suggestion. That, and the three fellowships mention  ed in paragraph 40, Ixchange of Persons, should re-  ceive high priority.
(45) With reference to paragraph 33, he enquired whe-  ther the International Umon of Biochemistry was like-  ly to join the International Council of Scientific Unions.
(46) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) said that, at its meeting in Naples, the Bu-  reau of the International Council of Scientific Unions  had already been in favour of admitting to membership  the future International Union of Biochemistry, once  established,
(47) The proposal of the United States delegate to give  that project a high priority was put to the vote.
(48) It was adopted by 10 votes to 0, with 2  abstentions.  Project 2.12: Improvementof scientific documentation  (paragraphs 39-58)
(49) Mr. AUGER (Inrector, Department of Natural  Sciences) stressed the success achieved by the ICSU  Abstracting Board for scientific literature. For phy-  sics, the Board issued abstracts in three journals,  each in a different language. That arrangement had  been extended in 1954 to chemistry and it was hoped to  do the same shortly for the biological sciences, The  results of the study of reference methods which was  being made by the Council of International Orgamza-  tions of Medical Sciences under a contract with Unes-  co had not come up to expectation. That activity had  accordingly been deleted for 1955-56 (8C/5 Corr. ,Na-  tural Sciences, paragraph 47 deleted and paragraph 48  amended).
(50) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) proposed to de-  lete the contracts mentioned in paragraph 42. His  - 691 -   VI-8 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  National Commission also thougnt very little of the  translation of medical abstracts, which it considered  a source of misinformation.
(51) Mr. LGW (Canada) supported the delegate of the  United Kingdom on the two points he had mentioned,  adding a query about paragraph 54: was the contract  referred to necessary, in view of the subvention  granted to that organization?
(52) Mr. SOEBROTO (Indonesia), speaking on para-  graph 57, informed the meeting that his Government  appreciated the aid given by Unesco in the field of ter-  minology. Indonesia was faced with many problems  of this order in replacing the Dutch lang.age by  Indonesian in schcols,
(53) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) supported the  Canadian delegate in the matter of paragraph 54, He  also opposed paragraph 57, and would propose that it  be given a low priority.
(54) Mr. LEE (United States of America) agreed with  the delegate of the United Kingdom :n wishing to  reduce the priority of paragraph 57.
(55) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) pointed out that the Advisory Committee  could not meet unless Unesco paid the travel expenses  of its members, The Committee had met every year  since its establishment in 1949.
(56) The CHAIRMAN said that the Committee had be-  fore it a proposal to eliminate the contracts mentioned  in paragraph 42, estimated to cost $700.
(57) Mr. CABOUAT (France) thought that the meet-  Ing was a permanent service and tt at only Unesco  could defray its expenses. He was against Mr,  Cowell's proposal to cut down that activity,
(58) The proposal of the United Kingdom delegate se  conded by the delegate of Canada, was put to the vote.
(59) It was rejected by 2 votes in favour, 6 against,  and 3 abstentions.
(60) With regard to paragraph 45 concerning contracts  to be concluded by Unesco with the Council of Inter-  national Organizations of Medical sciences,Mr. AUGER  (Director, Department of Natural Sciences), replying  to Mr. Cowell, said that the deletion of ti anslations  of medical abstracts would result in a saving of $3,000.
(61) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) accordingly pro-  posed that the budget for the activities covered by  paragraph 45 should be thus reduced.
(62) The motion was put to the vote and adopted by 7  in favour, none against and 2 abstentions.
(63) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences), referring to paragraph 54, explained that  the International Committee on Anatomical Nomencla-  ture, set up by the Council of International Organiza-  tions of Medical Sciences, had just completed its work  of preparing an international agreement on anatomical    terminology. That project was quite in keeping with  Unesco's aims and would surely enhance the  Organization's prestige.
(64) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) was rot hostile  to the activity, but thought that the work would be bet  ter done if results were published in the learned jour-  nals of each country, and would stand a better chance  of reaching the people interested than if they came out  in a special publication,
(65) Mr, BOW (Canada) agreed with the delegate of  the United Kingdom,
(66) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) stated that, if that contract were deleted,the  report could not be published in book form. It would  be a less handy working tool if published in a  periodical.
(67) Mr. CABOUAT (France) thought the publication  of that report entirely in keeping with Unesco's gener  al programme. The World Health Organizaticn was  doing the same kind of work for pharmaceutical nom-  erclature, As for the possibility of publishing there  port in a specialized periodical, he preferred toabide  by the Se-retariat's views on that subject.
(63) The CHAIRMAN said that, as the question of pub  lishing in the reviews of different countries had not  been investigated by the Secretariat, it was perhaps  better not to decide on it at that stage.
(69) Mr. CABOUAT (France) proposed deferring the  Committee 's decision until information was available  on the possibility of publishing the report in a specia-  lized periodical, if necessary as a supplement.
(70) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) was afraid that, if the appropriation were  deleted, the activity itself would have to be drepped,  as no one could foresee the result of the commercial  negotiations which would have to be undertaken.
(71) Mr. LEE (Unired States of America) considered  that the general question raised was an interestingand  complex one, It was true that, where the results of  Unesco investigations could be publishad in private  Journals, tney would be more likely to reach the aud-  ience that could profit from them than if distributed ir  Unesco pamghlets. On the other hand, there were  parts of the world where that medium was not avail-  able. He would favour leaving a decision to the Sec-  retariat, on the under standing that they explored both  the less and the more developed areas.
(72) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) added that any  attempt at a standard nomenclature in ¢ branch of  science could in the teginning be no more than tenta-  tive, so that its appearance in a learned journal,where  it would receive the comments of scientists, wouldbe  preferable in the first place.
(73) The CHAIRMAN proposed that the Committeein-  clude that point in 1ts Report to the Programme and  Budget Commission.  - 692 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VI-8
(74) Mr. CABOUAT (France), as Rapporteur, agreed  with the Chairman,
(15) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) said  that the Secretariat had considered that question. The  reason why commercial publication of the report had  not been envisaged was because, in the Director-Ge-  neral's opinion, it was better for Unesco itself to  publish the report. In book form the report would pro-  vide tangible proof of the effectiveness of Unesco's  action. Also, it would be more useful to readers in  a single volume than if issued as a series of articles,  It would be difficult for scien.ific journals to publish  the report itself, whereas they would be glad to open  their columns to discussion of the document.
(76) The proposal of the Canadian delegate, seconded  by the delegate of the United Kingdom, was put to the  vote and rejected by 5 votes to 3, with 4 abstentions.
(17) The CHAIRMAN then opened the discussion on  the proposal of the deiegate of the United Kingdom to  delete paragraph 57.
(18) Mr. LEE (United States of America) seconded  the proposal.
(19) Mr. CABOUAT (France) suggested giving the  project a lower priority, instead of deleting it, as  proposed by Mr. Cowell.
(80) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) supported the delegate of  France.
(81) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) said that the pro-  ject was an extension of the efforts of Unesco in the  domain of scientific terminology. A cut would limit  this work to the field of European languages. Hesug  gested that the project be maintained, and assistance  to it, if possible, increased.
(82) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) supported the Egyptian  proposci. The project was important in Asia,owing  to the difficulties involved in the changeover fromone  language to another. It deserved a high priority.
(83) Mr. BOW (Canada) wished to make it quite clear  that his support of the proposal to suppress the activi-  ty was based on his desire to concentrate the program  me, not to reduce the field of operation of the  activity.  {84) The CHAIRMAN explained that the Committee  had three distinct proposals before it. He would first  put to the vote the proposal of the delegate of the Uni-  ted Kingdom, then that of France, and lastly that of  Egypt.
(85) The proposal put forward by the delegate of the  United Kingdom and seconded by the delegate of the Uni-  ted States of Amer:ca to suppress the activity was put to  the vote and rejected by 4 in favour, 6 against and 2  abstentions.
(86) The proposal made by the delegate of  France and seconded by the delegate of Is-  rael to attribute a lower priority to . tke    activity was put to the vote and adopted by 8 in favour,
3 against and 1 abstention.  Section II: 2.2 Contribution to research particularly  for the improvement of the economic and social  conditions of mankind  Project 2,21: International Advisory Committee on Re-  search in the natural sciences programme (paragraphs
64-73) (see 8C/5 Corr., paragraphs 72 and 73)
(87) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) explained that the saving made by dropping  the study of referencing methods which was being car-  ried out under contract by CIOMS (paragraphs 47 and
48) had been transferred to project 2.21 (paragraph 64  of the Corrigendum).
(88) No commente  Project 2.22: Assistance to scie..‘ific research
(89) Mr. Auger stated that the various projects men  tioned (paragraphs 76-102), particularly research in-  to the nature of cancer, would not in any way duplic: te  the work of the World Health Organization, whichdealt  with clinical medicine, Those projects were concern  ed with scientific research in basic fields, as was  clear from the new wording of resolution 2,22  paragraph 75 of the Corrigendum).
(80) Mr. BOW (Canada) proposed that the arid zone  research programme should be given the highest pri-  ority, while other activities in this section could be  reduced,
(81) Mr, LEE (United States of America) seconded  the proposal, The programme was well organized  and had been achieving useful results,
(92) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) agreed with the delegates  of the United States of America and Canada, and said  that the Government of Mexico had follow~d the arid  zone activities with the greatest interest and was ap-  plying in its territory some of the results obtained. He  was in favour of graating the highest priority to that  project, but not of deleting other projects for the  purpose.
(93) Mr, CABOUAT (France) supported the proposal  of the Canadian delegate to give a higher priority to  the programme of arid zone research. He thought it  a pity that the Proceedings of the Symposium on Wind  and Solar Energy were to be published in English only  and not in a bilingual English-French edition, like the  Proceedings of the Symposium on ie Formation and  Erosion of Soils as affected by Climatic Factors,  scheduled for 1956 (paragraph 79).
(94) Mr. MAHEU(Assistant Director-General) said  that the Publications Comnmittee,of which he was Chair-  man, had decided that the articles in the edition would be  printed intheir original languages and followed by a  summary in the other language,  delegate of Canada,  of the United States
(95) The proposal of the  supported by the delegates  - 693 -   VI-8 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  of America, France and Mexico, was adopted by 10  votes to 0, with 2 abstentions.
(96) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) proposed the postponement, for a year, of  practical work on the humid tropical zone project  (paragraphs 85-88) and to use the money thus saved in
1955 for the physical oceanography and :narine biology  projects (paragraphs 89-91), as their preparation was  farther advanced.
(97) The CHAIRMAN said that Mr. Auger's remarks  could be regarded as a verbal corrigendum to the  sub-project on the humid tropical zone,
(98) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) wanted Mr.  Auger 's amendment carried farther, and wondered if  one of the two meetings in 1956 could not be elimina-  ted, since results could not be achieved so quickly.
(99) Mr. BOW (Canada) asked how far, 1f priority  were granted to the arid zone research project, it  would be advanced towards completion, It should be  as far on the way as possible before another project  was begun.
(100) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) thought that Mr. Cowell would be pleasedto  know that the onc-year postponement would not be a  waste of time, as the preliminary surveys could be  continued. A further saving of $5,000 could be made  on the 1956 estimates for the humid tropical zone if  only one meeting instead of two were organized. It  was difficult to say exactly when the cycle of work on  the arid zone could be completed. The study of five  or six main projects should first be completed in the  next few years, Moreover, if the funds requested  were granted, the pilot projects proposed in para-  graphs 92-100 would provide an opportunity of  reviewing the knowlecge acquired,
(101) Mr. BOW (Canada) was satisfied by Mr.Auger's  explanation,
(102) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that Mr. Auger's  proposal could be voted upon, only 1f it were presented  by a member of the Committee,
(103) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) formally.  proposed the reduction Mr. Auger had suggested.
(104) Mr. BOW (Canada) seconded the proposal.
(105) A vote was taken and it was adopted by 10 in  favour, none against and 1 abstention.  Paragraphs 89-91
(106) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) had not yet circulated the document setting  forth the new programme proposed for physical  oceanography and marine biology. It provided for  the experience gained in the Indo-Pacific region and  Latin America to be applied throughout the world,with  the co-operation of the Food and Agriculture.Organi-  zation and the competent sc.entific councils. A World  Advisory Committee would be responsible for guiding    and co-ordinating the work of several scientific coun-  cils for such areas as the North Atlantic and the Med:  terranean, The Advisory Committee of Marine Scien  ces would have the same structure as the Advisory  Committee on Arid Zone Research. The project was  supported by the United Nations Food and Agriculture  Organization,
(107) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) enquired what proportion  of the funds would be contributed to that project bythe  Food and Agriculture Organization.
(108) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natura]  Sciences) could make no promises for the Food ana  Agriculture Organization, but added that it had colla-  borated in 1953 in the Eighth Pacific Science Congress  In Manila and could be relied on to support the project  if it were in line with its own aims.
(109) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom), on paragraph
90, asked whether the expenses of the intergovernmer  tal conference should not be met entirely by the  governments concerned.
(110) Mr. LEE (United States of America) asked for  the budgetary implications of the remarks just made  by Mr. Auger. He thought they implied an  improvement in the working plans.  {111) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) thought it better to drop the idea of conven-  ing an intergovernmental conference for Latin America  in 1955 (paragraph 90) than to give up practical work,  The budget proposed at that stage, together with the  sum saved on humid tropical zone research, should  be sufficient for all regional and international  activities in connexion with oceanography.
(112) Mr. LEE (United States of America) thought the  suggestion was excellent. He advocated caution, how  ever, in going too far with a major project. Existing  organizations should bear as much of the expense as  possible.
(113) Approved.  Paragraphs 101 and 102
(114) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) explained that the research on cancer (para  graphs 101 and 102) had been planned at the request of  the Executive Board of Unesco. It involved contracts  with experts who were to meet once in 1955, Several  mectings were proposed for 1956 and might leadtothe  establishment of an intergovernmental or non-goverm  mental body. The results obtained in 1955 could guide  the Secretariat's work in 1956, but they could hardly  be foreseen at that stage.
(115) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) felt concerned at  the expenses entailed in a continuation of activity after
1956. Could not the World Health Organization cover  some of them?
(116) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) could not foresee whether the project could  be completed in 1956. If the work made rapid headway,  - 694 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON  an international body with its own budget would be es-  tablished. He personaliy thought that body could not  be set up for three years, No promise could be given  in that connexion on behalf of the World Health Orga-  nization, which would probably seek to define the ex-  tent of its functions in the matter. but would not  consider collaborating in Unesco's project.
(117) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) shared the un-  certainty expressed by the delegate of Norway. The  lead in this matter should more properly be taken by  the World Health Organization. He recommended  deferment of the activity.
(118) Mr. BOW (Canada) asked whether the Executive  Board had recommended this activity before or after
1t had adopted its report on the remodelling of the  future programme,  NINTH     PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VI-9
(119) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Programme  and Budget) said that it had been discussed by the Exe-  cutive Board before and commented on (8C/5 Add, 1,  paragraph 12) with interest,
(120) Mr. LEE (United States of America) did not  consider the comment made by the Executive Boarc in
8C/5 Add.1 a very convincing expression of support.  That argued for deferment. He suggested that the  Department of Natural Sciences should find out what  organizations were interested, and make a fuller  statement of the situation to the next General  Conference in two years time.
(121) The discussion was deferred to the next  meeting.  The meeting rose at 12,50 p.m.  MEETING
5 November 1954 at 3.X p.m.  Chairman : Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Australia)  ITEM 1.2 OF THE AGENDA: PRELIMINARY CONSIDERATION  OF THE DRAFT PROGRAMME AND BUDGET FOR 1955-36,  BEFORE THE OPENING OF THE SESSION (continued)  NATURAL SCIENCES (continued)  Project 2.22: Assistance to scientific research  Paragraphs 101 and 102 (continued)
(1) The CHAIRMAN invited the Chairman of the Exe-  cutive Board to state the Board's views on the  proposed campaign.
(2) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive  Board) said that the Executive Board had givencare-  ful consideration to the subject and had agreed, first,  that the World Health Organization should be consul-  ted before a decision was taken and, second, that the  views of the Advisory Committee on Research in the  Natural Sciences programme should be ascertained.  As a result of WHO's agreement to participate and  the Advisory Committee's strong support, the Exe-  cutive Board had unanimously approved the project.  It was clear, from conversations with experts in the  United States of America and the United Kingdom,  that there was a lack of contact between the medical  and the scientific sides of the problem, and that the  results of scientific research were not transmitted to  doctors rapidly enough. The Executive Board fav-  oured the project in the hope of ameliorating the si-  tuation and helping to remove one of the serious caus-  es of misery in the world. There was a strong    dividing line between scientists! research on cell  growth and the work of doctors, and it was cssential  that Unesco and WHO should be closely linked in the  project.
(3) The CHAIRMAN recalled that at the previous meet-  ing the United Kingdom delegate, supported by the de-  legates vf Norway and the United States of America,  had proposed that the project be postponed,
(4) In reply to a question by the delegate of Israel, Sir  Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive Board) said  that the project would be a joint one between Unesco  and WHO, since the closest collaboration between the  scientific and medical sides was needed.
(5) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) questioned the use of the  word "campaign".
(6) The CHAIRMAN, speaking as delegate of Austral  ia, also considered the title of the project misleading  The dividing line was clear: cancer, being a health  problem, concernad WHO, while research on cell  growth was a scientific matter and therefore concern-  ed Unesco. He proposed amending the title to "Basic  research un cell growth and related problems”.
(7) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) favoured the wording "Study of normaland  abnormal cell growth", which he thought would satisfy  WHO. The Committee should, however, note that  this new title implied a change of attitude and that  it would be well to make quite sure that the,  - 695 -