ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  TWENTY-FIRST MEETING
1 December 1954 at 10 a.m.  Chairman: Mr. BEEBY (New Zealand)  ITEM 2.5.4.2 OF REVISED AGENDA ; PERSONNEL POLICY,  OBLIGATIONS AND RIGHTS OF STAFF MEMBERS: PROPOSED  AMENDMENTS TO THE STAFF REGULATIONS (document
8C/ADM/ 14) (continued)
(1) The CHAIRMAN invited the Commission to pursue  the general discussion of the proposed amendments to  the Staff Regulations as contained in document
8C/ADM/14.
(2) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) stated that his delega-  tion was ready to support the Director-General's  proposals for amendments to the Staff Regulations,and  based its attitude on contractual agreements which  had been in force for a considerable time and made it  incumbent on Unesco to bring its Staff Regulations  into line with those of the United Nations, In that  connexion, he referred to Article XIII of the Agree-  ment between the United Nations and Unesco dealing  with Personnel Arrangements, paragraph 1 of which  read:  "The United Nations and the United Nations Educa-  tional, Scientific and Cultural Organization recognize  that the eventual develcpment of a single unified inter-  national civil service is desirable from the standpoint  of effective administrative co-ordination, and with  this end in view agree to develop common personnel  standards, methods and arrangements designed to  avoid serious discrepancies in terms and conditions  of employment, to avoid competition in recruitment of  personnel, and to facilitate interchange of personnel  in order to obtain the maximum benefit from their  services",
(3) Under paragraph 2 (b) of the same Article, the  two Organizations agreed to:  "Consult together concerning other matters rela-  ting to the employment of their officers and staff,  including conditions of service, duration of appoint-  ments, classification, sala.y scales and allowances,  retirement and pension rights and staff regulations  and rules with a view to securing as much uniformity  in these matters as shall be iound practicable".
(4) Mr. Haguiwara further pointed out that the Agree-  ment which he had just quoted had been based on the  provisions of the Constitution itself, more particular-  ly on the following passage in Article X:  "This Organization shall be brought into relation  with the United Nations Organization as soon as  practicable, as one of the Specialized Agencies re-  ferred to in Article 57 of the Charter of the United  Nations, This relationship shall be effected through  an agreement with the United Nations Organization  under Article 63 of the Charter".
(5) Mr. Haguiwara repeated that it was in order to  carry out the spirit of those different texts that the  - 620 -     Japanese delegation would support the amendments to  the Staff Regulations proposed by the Director-  General in document 8C/ADM/ 14,
(6) Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS (United Kingdom)  regretted the unavoidability of discussing such  matters as the one before the Commission. His  delegation was somewhat concerned at the periodical  appearance of such professional questions on the  agenda, since it was not indicative of good health in  the Organization,
(7) It was also his belief that there was no need,  under the resolution of the General Conference, to  revise the Staff Regulations, but merely to submit a  report.
(8) With regard to the recasting of the Unesco Staff  Regulations, he attached particular importance to  the principle of the singularity of the Organization,  which, he thought, should be reflected in its Staff  Regulations. There were certainly a number of  points in common between Unesco, the United Nations,  and the other Specialized Agencies and it was impor-  tan: to be informed about developments there. But  Unesco :should not be bound by what had happened or  might happen in those Organizations,
(9) The Staff Regulations should reflect the fact that  political considerations were of less importance than  in certain other organizations; they should also to a  certain extent reflect the background of the host  country of the Organization; they should recognize  the essential responsibility of the Director-General  and ensure that the life af the staff members was  conceived in generous and liberal terms in keeping  with the spiritual ideals of the Organization.
(10) Mr. KAVALEVSKY (Byelorussian Soviet  Socialist Republic) wished to know if there had been  any conflict between the Director-General and mem-  bers of the staff which, under the existing Staff Re-  gulations, the Director-General had not been able to  settle in accordance with the interests of the  Organization as a whole,
(11) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that the devélop-  ment of tne proposals *o amend the Staff Regulations  had taken place over a period of several months  independently of any specific cases awaiting solution,  and to which the proposals referred, After the  elaboration of the proposals and almost simultaneous-  ly with the issuing of the document under considera-  tion, three cases had arisen which he had been  unable to solve under the existing Staff Regulations.  The members of the staff involved were still em-  ployed, although he thought they should no longer be  employed, and he wished in that connexion to   ADMINISTRATIVE  obtain the necessary authority to terminate their  contracts.
(12) Mr. SOLDATOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) wished to reiterate the views of his dele-  gation on two important points.
(13) He was firmly opposed to the exclusion from the  Staff Regulations of Regulation 4.2.1, which instruc-  ted the Director-General to take the necessary steps  to ensure that no persons who had discredited them-  selves by their activities or connexion with Fascism,  Nazism, or militarist aggression, were appointed to  the Secretariat, That provision was in keeping with  the Constitution of the Organization and would contri-  bute greatly to achieving maximum co-operation  between all the countries concerned in the development  of education, science and culture. It was inconceiv-  able that the Organization, which had been set up  following victory over the forces of Fascism, Nazism  and aggression, should now accept representatives of  those evil tendencies. His delegation would never  accept such a decision, and he felt convinced that his  views were shared by others. It was not sufficient  to say that the provision in question was no longer to  be found in the statutes of other international organiza-  tions; the main consideration to be taken into account  was the attitude of the peoples whose representatives  were present and who would never admit the partisans  of Nazism, Fascism and aggression into Unesco.
(14) The Soviet delegation also saw no reason for  increasing the powers of the Director-General,  especially as the Staff Regulations in their present  form had never prevented him from discharging his  duties in the interests of the Organization. The  three cases the Director -General had mentioned were  individual cases which did not need to be taken into  account from the point of view of enlarging h's terms  of reference.
(15) Mrs. KOCH (Denmark) agreed that the fundamen-  tal principle of freedom was involved, but thought it  would be difficult to embody it in any one paragraph.  Putting aside the detailed consideration of individual  paragraphs, the Danish representative thought that  the Staff Regulations were satisfactory in so far as  they gave the Director-General sufficient authority to  ensure the effective working of the Secretariat, and  should therefore be retained without modification.She  agreed also that the matter was of such importance  that the future of the Organization depended on the  decision that might be taken. It was dangerous,  however, to accept the standards of any one of the  Member States in order to base upon them the regu-  lations of the Organization, It was the responsibility  of the Director-General to settle staff matters and,  even if it were not always possible to agree with him  on individual points, the Organization had to respect  the authority it had vested in him. She therefore  proposed that the Staff Regulations be retained in  their present form and any revision of those Regula-  tions be postponed until the next General Conference  in two years time,
(16) Mr. KAVALEVSKY (Byelorussian Soviet  Socialist Republic) said that his delegation was deeply  concerned with the question of the Staff Regulations.  The Staff Regulations depended not on the composition  - 621 -     COMMISSION v-21  of the Secretariat, but on the spirit within the Secre-  tariat, Any broadening of the powers of the  Director-General would, in fat, increase the  powers of a certain number of people, while what was  needed was more authority for the Organization as a  whole, His delegation would oppose any change in  the Staff Regulations.
(17) His delegation would also oppose any proposal  to omit Staff Regulation 4.2.1, His country had had  proof enough during the last war of the terrible dan-  gers of Fasc'sm, Nazism and the horrors of military  aggression. ile would only add to the arguments  already put forward by the representative of the  USSR, that a decision to admit to the Organization  persons advocating Fascism, Nazism or military  aggression, would strike a fatal blow at the prestige  of Unesco,
(18) Mr. TAMAS (Hungary) said that possibly some  delegations did not attach much importance to the  problem involved in the revision of Regulation 4.2, 1  of the Staff Regulations, because it was obvious that  the Director-General would not engage persons with  Fascist or Nazi antecedents, or in anyway committed  to military aggression, The Hungarian delegation  however considered the matter to be of the greatest  importance, Anything which had a bearing on  Fascism, Nazism or military aggression should be  taken very seriously. Hungary had suffered greatly  from the Nazis; Budapest had been almost entirely  destroyed. Ten years had not removed the traces  of that destruction. If the Regulation under discus-  sion were suppressed, it would mean that from then  on it would be possible to engage staff who were  connected with such ideologies and codes of behaviour.  There should be no mistake about so vital a question,
(19) Mr. WIECHECKI (Poland) stated that his dele-  gation was opposed to the deletion of Regulation
4.2.1, which was cesigned to debar from Unesco any  persons who had discredited themselves by their  connexion with Fascism, Nazism, or military ag-  gression. The Regulation was not based on political  considerations, but solely on the desire to safeguard  humanity and culture. To delete it would be con-  trary to the very spirit of the Constitution, which  explicitly stated that "the great and terrible war  which has now ended was a war made possible by the  denial of the democratic principles of the dignity,  equality and mutual respect of men, and by the pro-  pagation, in their place, through ignorance and pre-  judice, of the doctrine of the inequality of men and  races",
(20) The Polish delegation had accordingly decided  to concur in the recommendations of the Executive  Board and to vote against the deletion of Regulation
(21) Mr. TVETERAS(Norway) said that the questions  of staff policy in the United Nations and Unesco had  caused some concern in Norway. In his country it  was established that civil servants were entitled to  enjoy all human rights as well as freedom of con-  science. However, in view of the very different  social and economic structures of the Member States,  it was clearly difficult to know to what extent the  freedom of the national of a country was compatible   v-21 ADMINISTRATIVE  with that of an international civil servant. If the  primary aim of an international organization was  effective administration, special claims would have  to be made on the international civil servant, There  was no need for the Staff Regulations of Unesco to be  an exact copy of those adopted in the United Nations,  but tl.ere were good reasons why they should be as  close to the latter as possible, On the whole the  Director-General had established a good balance  between the effective functioning of the Organization  and the fundamental rights of staff members, If  staff members needed to be guaranteed maximum  protection, it was also necessary for the Director-  General to know if he trusted the staff. The delega-  tion of Norway would therefore, subject to a few  reservations on the lines of those made by the  Executive Board, vote in favour of the proposals  before the Commission,
(22) Mr. VAN SUCHTELEN (Netherlands) thought  that Regulation 4. 2,1 ought to be maintained in its  present form. The Netherlands delegation and  authorities recognized the right of each people to  choose the government or regime it considered most  appropriate to its national character. He considered  that the time had not yet come for Unesco to admit  staff with antecedents that could be included in the  terms of the Regulation in question, Countries that  had not directly suffered from the last war might not  be able to understand that, The suppression of the  Regulation might be acceptable in theory, but under  present circumstances it was not yet possible to  carry it out,
(23) Mr. KELLY (Australia) said that Australia in  principle agreed with the proposals advanced by the  Director-General, on the grounds that the highest  standards of integrity, competence and efficiency  should be observed by members of the staff of the  Secretariat and that uniformly high standards should  obtain in the United Nations and in the Specialized  Agencies,
(24) In the course of discussion too much emphasis  had, he felt, been placed on the political autonomy of  members of the staff and too little on their responsi-  bilities to the Organization. It had to be remembered  that a decision to accept responsible employment,  whether in a trade union, a private corporation, a .  government department or an international body, not  infrequently involved, on the part of the person con-  cerned, a decision to forgo the public exercise of  some of his political rights. The free acceptance  of such employment involved the free renunciation of  certain forms of political activity. That social fact  gave rise to a principle of conduct, applicable in  Unesco - the principle that no member of the staff  should engage in political activity of a nature such  that it tended to undermine the very character of  Unesco. If members of the staff felt bound in con-  science to engage in forms of political activity incon-  sistent with the circumstances of their employment  as servants of an organization of Member States,  those members of the staff were free to resign their  employment,
(25) While the concept of integrity was a lucid con-  cept and laid down a fundamental principle of conduct,  it was clearly neither possible nor desirable to give  - 622 -     COMMISSION  such a concept or principle precise definition. It  was for the staff to work in the light of that concept  and for the Director-General to take action when he  found members of the staff lacking in integrity, It  was the speaker's impression that the Staff Associa-  tion had failed to see all the implications of integr.ty.  The suggestion by the Staff Association that the  adoption of the Director-General's recommendations  "might well have an effect on staff morale” was, he  felt, an attempt to intimidate the Commission and  was not an expression of the principle of integrity.
(26) His delegation was in favour of the proposal to  amend the Staff Regulations,
(27) Mr. STAHL (Sweden) thought that many of the  difficulties connected with staff matters might have  been avoided if the actions of the parties involved  had been guided by clearer principles. The greatest  care should be exercised in dealing with such  matters, particularly as regarded the distinction to  be made between the nationa! of a country as such,  and the international civil servant,
(28) There had not been time for the international  organizations to establish their own traditions of  justice. No one Member State should impose its  own criteria in that respect, but all should contri-  bute to establishing the tradition. That would take  time and patience, Inthe meantime, a modus  vivendi was needed.
(29) Although some of the arguments against adopt-  ing the staff regulations of the United Nations were  for the time being valid, the modus vivendi would  nevertheless eventually have to be based on uniform  regulations for all international organizations, It  was illogical for regulations to vary in accordance  with geographical location or membership.
(30) The modus vivendi would have to be based on a  proper balance between the duties of the Director -  General with regard to the effective working of the  Organization, on the one hand, and the security of  the staff members, on the other.
(31) The principle should also be adopted that the  head of the organization was responsible for its work  and should be in a position to select his collaborators  in accordance with the staff regulations or, in cer-  tain cases, with the interpretation given to those  regulations by the Appeals Board or the Administra-  tive Tribunal of the International Labour Organization,
(32) Such restrictions and guarantees were adequate  and the Swedish delegation was therefore, in prin-  ciple, prepared, subject to minor reservations, to  support the amendments proposed by the  Director-General,
(33) Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) stated that in many  respects he shared the views expressed on the  previous day by the United States delegate. He  questioned whether the majority of the amendments  proposed in document 2C/ADM/14 would make very  much difference to the present state of affairs, either  by lightening the task of the Director-General, or by  lessening his responsibilities in staff questions. It  would still lie with the Director-General to decide  whether or not an official's conduct was such as to  endanger the basic principles of the Organization  and, where necessary, to take whatever disciplinary  measures appeared to be called for. It still remained   ADMINISTRATIVE  open to the official in question to take his case to the  Appeals Board and the ILO Administrative Tribunal,  and those bodies would continue to base their decisions  on an exainination of the facts, The introduction of a  notion such as that of integrity would therefore, in  Mr, Ammoun's view, merely complicate the task of  those Boards unnecessarily.
(34) Mr. Ammoun wos anxious to pay tribute to the  frankness with v hich the Director -General had ex-  plained exactly why he wished to terminate the con-  tracts of the three officials whose cases had been  brought to the notice of the Appeals Board. If he had  not gone into those reasons, said Mr. Ammoun, the  Director-General could have by-passed the Appeals  Beard altogether; his present attitude seemed  therefore most praiseworthy,
(35) Mr. Ammoun further indicated that the  Lebanese delegation did not agree with the proposals  submitted by the Director-General regarding the  deletion of Regulation 4. 2.1, or with the text given on  page 6 ard suggested as a new Regulation 9.3.1.
(36) While he thought that the insertion of provisions  such as 4, 2,1 might have been dispensed with from  the start, the Lebanese delegate took the view that, in  the present circumstances, the cause of peace would  best be served by the deletion of that regulation,
(37) As regarded 9.3.1, the aim of that regulation  was to empowet the Director-General to pay an  increased indemnity to any staff member whose  appointment he wished to terminate, without the dis-  grace of a cancelled contract or disciplinary measures  However, the publicity such a provision would entail,  if included in the Staff Regulations, would inevitably  defeat its purpose. A staff member who had been  dismissed in the circumstances outlined above would  be no more free from suspicion than if he had had his  contract cancelled or been subjected to disciplinary  measures,
(38) Mr, Ammoun concluded by stressing the difficul-  ty of giving a precise definition of the term "integrity,  and the danger of proceedings which might well result  from the {ll-considered use of such an indefinite  criterion,
(39) Mr, RIANO JAUMA (Cuba) said that the  Director-General had pointed out in document
8C/ADM/14 that the Staff Regulations of the United  Nations and other Specialized Agencies contained no  regulation covering the provisions of Regulation 4. 2, 1,  the suppression of which was under discussion, That  was an important consideration, The Cuban delega-  tion believed that the measure had been a salutory  one, but that Regulation 4. 2, which also dealt with  the matter, would suffice at that stage to settle  whether or not an official might be employed in the  Secretariat.
(40) The remarks made by the delegates of Hungary  and Poland might be taken into account, but his dele-  gation would support the suggestions set forth by the  Director-General in his document, which deserved  thorough consideration, as they were aimed at rising  above a policy of prejudice, tension and cold war,  which was contrary to the basic ideals of Unesco.
(41) The development of an Organization existing to  foster peace and culture should not be hindered by  political considerations. The Director-General  should be supported in the matter, and the Cuban
623 -  COMMISSION v-21  delegation was prepared to second his proposal to  suppress the Regulation. The idea of classification  on a moral or ideological basis for the selection of  required staff was not only difficult; it was impossible.  The selection could be made easier, without preju-  dice to Unesco. The Administrative Commission  should study the question in the light of new ideas and  in a liberal spirit,
(42) The Cuban delegation considered that the  Director-General ought to be empowered to eliminate  any legal difficulty that arose in the carrying out of  his functions. In its early stages Unesco had tried  to avoid employing anyone who might be labelled a  Nazi. That policy had been the right one at the  time, since Nazism had aroused the hatred of the  whole free world, but it was no longer justified.
(43) The words of José Marti, the Apostle of Cuba,  famed in Uruguay for having, as a great American,  served that country well at the time of its financial  reorganization, should be remembered in these  crucial days of world division; they should indeed  become a golden rule for Unesco: "With all and for  the good of all". That should be Unescots motto,  the motto of an organization that through the  co-operation of men was working for human welfare,
(44) MR. HUZAYIN (Egypt) did not think the pro-  posals involved a new principle, but were rather an  amplification of what was already contained in the  Constitution and the Staff Regulations.
(45) The Director-General had spoken of integrity,  but he had added two further important criteria:  independence and impartiality, for which there was  much need, He had furthermore shown a spirit of  great toleration, without which the representative of  the Staff Association would not have been able to  make known his views in the way in which he had  done, In that spirit of impartiality it would be  possible to reconcile the rights of staff members  with their duties,
(46) It was right that staff members should be enti-  tled to freedom of convictions, but the same hardly  applied where action was concerned, since, if all  were free to take what action they pleased, the  Director-General would be unable to ensure the  effective work of the Organization. In order to ob-  tain harmony of action the Director-General needed  a set of regulations upon which to act. The Commis-  sion could examine those regulations in detail, but at  the present stage the Organization needed a spirit of  moderation coupled with a will to act. In that res-  pect he disagreed with the representative of Denmark,  who had proposed to defer consideration of the Staff  Regulations to the next General Conference; that  would only render more embarrassing the situation  in which the Director-General, his staff and the  Member States might find themselves, The Com-  mission should agree to share the responsibility of  the Director-General and not shrink from  considering the proposals he had placed before it.
(47) Dr. MUDALIAR (India) appreciated the work the  Director-General had accomplished in the interests  of the Organization and commended Lis frankness  and the freedom he had given the Staff Association  to express its views,
(48) With regard to integrity, he agreed that it was   V-21 ADMINIBTRATIVE  difficult to give a precise definition of the term, al-  though an attempt to do so had been made inthe Report  on Standards of Conduct in the International Civil Ser-  vice, More important than the work, however, were  the conventions that grew up around it,
(49) He disagreed with one point made by the repre-  sentative of the Staff Association. While all persons  were entitled to enjoy fundamental human rights and  freedom of conscience, it was not so in the case of  freedom of speech, which could vary in accordance  with the importance of the post occupied by the  person in question,
(50) He also believed that the political rights of the  international civil servant should be restricted.
(51) With regard to Staff Regulation 4. 2.1, his dele-  gation, while representing a country which had not  been as closely affected by the last war as the coun-  tries of Europe, nevertheless agreed with the repre-  sentative of the Netherlands that the regulation in  question should be retained, and the matter given  further consideration,
(52) Finally, the nuestion of the revision of Staff  Regulations we s one which required maximum agree-  ment, whereas the Executive Board had been unable  to accept a number of the proposals made. In view  of tuat fact, he was inclined to support the establish-  ment of a small group to discuss the amendments to  the Staff Regulations with a view to furthering the  fundamental objectives of the Organization,
(53) Mr, DE LOS SANTOS (Philippines) supported  the suppression of Regulation 4.2.1. The Philippines  had suffered a great deal in the last war, but it  should not be forgotten that men and women were sub-  ject to error but did not necessarily reinain in error:  they could repent and, if they did, Unesco might admit  them to its staff, despite their regrettable antecedents,  In such cases the question of integrity and impartiality  should also be taken into account, If, in the opinion  of the Director-General, an applicant had changed  his views, he should be free to engage that applicant,  provided the requirements in respect of those quali-  ties were fulfilled, Naturally, those who continued  in their past errors should he excluded.
(54) Mr. DUDNIK (Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Repub-  lic) agreed that the staff of Unesco should be trusted  by all the Membér States. They could acquire that |  trust by their efforts to further the ideals and aims  of the Organization, However, people who had been  discredited by their activities in connexion with  Fascism, Nazism or militarist aggression could only  expect contempt, and the Organization should ensure  that they had no access to it. He had been astonished  to hear the proposal of the representative of the  Philippines to delete Staff Regulation 4.2.1, and  stated that his delegation would support the decision  of the Executive Board and all those delegations  which insisted on Regulation 4, 2. 1 being retained as  it stood.
(55: Mr, HAYEK (Czechoslovakia) stated that the  Czechoslovak delegation saw no need for the amend-  ments to the Staff Regulations proposed in document
8C/ADM/14. Many of the delegates who had spoken  in favour of those amendments had advanced one  argument only: in their submission, Unesco was    - 624 -  COMMISSION  obliged to co-ordinate its actions with those of the  United Nations, The Czechoslovak delegation was  by no means convinced of the validity of that argu-  ment, The amendments introduced by the United  Nations in its Staff Regulations were too recent for  their results to be assessed, and it would in any  case be impossible for Unesco to follow the same  path without incurring very serious criticisms from  its Staff Association. In Mr. Hayek's opinion,  Unesco was under no obligation to follow the lead cf  the United Nations so closely, What really mat-  tered was to secure for Unesco the services of a  competent staff whose members would combine  devotion to the cause of humanity with adherence tc  the countries of their origin in a way that could not  fail to benefit the Organization. The various pro-  visions of the Staff Regulations should be fashioned  to that end. It was very important te make them  sufficiently stable and precise and Mr. Hayek thought  that some of the proposed amendments were at  variance with that requirement. He cited as an  instance the proposed revision of Regulation 1.7,
(56) Mr. Hayek then emphasized that the Czecho-  slovak delegation could on no account accept the  deletion of Regulation 4.2.1. It should not be  thought that that Regulation owed its existence to  political motives, or to a desire for discrimination  or for revenge. It was mere.y a very natural pre-  caution designed to debar from Unesco those who had  collaborated with the criminals sentenced at  Nuremberg. Contrary to the assertions of certain  delegates, it was by deleting, not by retaining, that  provision, that the atmosphere of international co-  operation which had hitherto reigned at the General  Conference was most likely to be clouded. Mr. Hayek  accordingly called on all those delegates who had  declared themselves in favour of that deletion to  think again.
(57) Mr, JUVIGNY (France) had two preliminary  remarks to make before discussing the substance  of the proposed amendments.
(58) He wished first of all to stress the fact that, as  stated by the Director-General, the new arrangements  had not been worked out as a solution to problems  arising out of certain recent events, It might be  that they inevitably called to mind certain concrete  cases, but, even so, they were in fact designed to  be applied permanently and impersonallv to all mem-  bers of the Secretariat, whoever they might be, With  that in view their possible consequences should be  studied very closely,
(59) Mr, Juvigny also wished to draw the Commis-  sion's attention to the fact that, although the closest  possible co-ordination between Unesco's regulations  and those of the United Nations was desirable,  Unesco was under no written or positive obligation  in the matter. The Director-General had, moreover,  recognized that neither WHO nor ILO had seen fit to  modify their Staff Regulations to bring them into  line with those of the United Nations, and that, in  staff matters, no common policy had been adopted  by the United Nations and its Specialized Agencies.  Accordingly, in examining the Director-General's  proposals, his delegation was resolved not to allow  itself to be influenced by any act on the part of the  United Nations, In so doing, his delegation would   ADMINISTRATIVE  be conforming to the Director -General's wishes, since,  in his report to the Executive Board (37 EX/32), he  had called upon that body to consider only the  intrinsic merit of those proposals,
(60) Mr. Juvigny then turned to the substance of the  proposed amendments, which, he said, might have  such serious consequences for the staff, or place the  Director -General in such a delicate position, that  they must be examined with great care.
(61) He spoke first of the difficulty of giving an exact  definition of the word "integrity". Whereas that word,  to the majority of French-speaking people, was  synonymous with incorruptibility or probity, there  was sometimes a tendency to broaden its sense and  include in it a number of ideas such as those of  dignity, professional conscience or general conduct,  However, in the view of the French delegation, the  general conduct of a staff member could only be  invoked as grounds for dismissal if that charge were  substantiated by a number of definite facts, for which  evidence of time and place could be given, That led  the French delegation to regard as dangerous the  introduction of the word "integrity" into the Staff Re-  gulations unless a more precise definition were found  for it than that given on pages 3 and 4 of the report  drawn up by the international Civil Service Committee,
(62) The Director-General had, moreover, in para-  graph 11 of document 8C/ADM/14 explicitly acknow-  ledged that, if the amended Regulation 9.1.1 were  adopted, it would be necessary to instruct the staff as  to the construction to be placed on the word "integrity"  in that paragraph. There was no question of laying  down fixed and unbreakable rules, or of giving a  definition which would not leave out the slightest de-  tail, but the notion did need the most thorough inves-  tigation, The action which the Director-General  proposed to take after the amendments had been  voted, should, in the opinion of the French delegation,  be taken befor ehand.
(63) That was not all, however, Mr, Juvigny point-  ed out that the desiderata for international civil ser-  vants under the amended Regulation 1, 7 would also  require closer definition, Paragraph (b) of the  amended Regulation 9.1,1 raised a question of past  activity which should be looked into very closely, The  last words of Regulation 1,7 ("or might reflect upon")  might well give rise to legal proceedings if the  greatest care were not taken, Lastly, the provision  of the amended Regulation 9.3.1, which empowered  the Director-General, instead of dismissing a staff  member, to terminate his employment by paying him  - 625 -     COMMISSION v-21  an indemnity greater than the normal indemnity,  might ultimately prove contrary to the aim attributed  to it under paragraph 12 of document 8C/ADM/14,  and to the Director-General's intentions as set forth  in his different statements. If the aim of the pro-  posed procedure was to conceal the blot which would  otherwise appear on the staff member's file, there  was no cause to grant him extra payment in addition  to his normal indemnity, 1f, on the other hand, it  was in the interests of the official to place his case  before the Appeals Board and the Administrative  Tribunal, he should not lend himself to a procedure  which in practice would mean surrendering his right  of appeal. The proposed amendments were  incompatible with the staff member's freedom of  consent,
(64) To sum up, Mr, Juvigny said that the amend-  ments proposed in document 8C/ADM/14 raised a  host of very important problems which required more  thorough study than they had been accorded so far.  While appreciating the efforts of the Director-  General to safeguard the Organization's interests,  while at the same time affording staff members the  necessary guarantees, the French delegation could  not wholly agree unless the draft amendments set out  in document 8C/ADM/14 were first more closely  studied and defined, The French delegate ended with  an appeal to the delegates and to the Director-  General to dispel whatever doubt remained as tc ‘he  scope of the proposed texts. If the general discus-  sion failed to reveal a fair measure of consent one  way or another, his delegation would welcome, or  even sponsor, any proposal which might lead to a  satisfaciory solution and assist the Director-General  and the Conference both at present and in future,
(65) The CHAIRMAN thanked the French delegate  for his statement, and proposed to close the meeting  as it was getting late,
(66) Mr, PHOTIADES (Greece) asked if at the  beginning of the next meeting those passages from  the Agreement between the United Nations Organiza-  tion and Unesco dealing with staff arrangements  might be read out.
(67) The CHAIRMAN took note of Mr. Photiades'  request,  The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m,