1V-24 PROGRAMME AND BUDGET COMMISSION  TWENTY - FOURTH MEETING
2 December 1954 at 3 p.m.  Chairman. Mr, BOURGEOIS (Switzerland)  Document 8C/DR/115: Peaceful co-operation
(1) The CHAIRMAN announced that the delegations  of India, Czechoslovakia and the United States of  America had reached agreement on the text of a joint  draft resolution on peaceful co-operation. He read  the text.
(2) The Chairman added that the text read was the  outcome of discussions among the three delegations  on the Indian draft resolution (document 8C/DR/5  (rev.)), the amendment submitted by the delegation  of Czechoslovakia (document 8C/DR/72) and the  amendment submitted by the United States delegation  (document 8C/DIV/131).
(3) The Chairman asked the Commission if it was  prepared to discuss the document immediately or If  it wished to wait until copies had been distributed.
(4) The United Kingdom delegation, seconded by the  delegations of Chile and Ceylon, proposed that it be  discussed forthwith.
(6) Mr. MUJEEB (India) was happy to introduce the  joint draft resolution. There was no need to stress  its importance. The whole world now wished to move  in the direction of peaceful coexistence. The current  session of the Conference, which was more widely  representative than any previous one, was the proper  occasion for the adoption of such a resolution. The  Government of India offered all the assistance it  could dispose of in the forwarding of the aims 1t set  forth.
(7) Mr. BARRENECHEA PINO (Chile) expressed his  agreement with the proposal and the lofty ideals  inspiring it. He thought, however, that the wording  of the text was too involved, with too much repetition,  and that it should be revised. It was important that  the resolution should be coinprehensible to the general  public throughout the world.
(8) Mr. ANGELL (United States of America) was  sure every one understood that the drafting of the  revised resolution had not been simple. In the  present troubled times it was difficult for people with  different points of view to agree. A representative  text had been composed, and the delegate of the  United States of America hoped it would not be found  necessary to tamper with it.
(9) Mr. HEYEK (Czechoslovakia) emphasized the  importance of the discussion that had been held on  the problern, which bore on the basic principles  - 430 -     underlying all Unesco's work. His delegation had  supported the Indian proposal, made its own contri-  bution and participated in the drafting of the final  text.
(10) The Czechoslovak delegation would have  preferred a clearer form of wording, particularly  as far as the idea of peaceful coexistence was  concerned. The current session of the Commission  showed that peaceful coexistence was the foundation  of all Unesco's projects, and also that it was  possible to reach agreement on essential principles,  even if they were imperfectly expressed.
(11) Mr. Hayek thought that the agreement reached  by the three delegations was a hopeful sign that  peaceful coexistence would increasingly influence  international relations.
(12) Mr. BARRENECHEA PINO (Chile) explained  that he had not made a request but merely a  suggestion. If, however, the Commission considered  that he had made a proposal, he would withdraw it  in order not to confuse the discussion.
(13) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences) said that the major part of that resolution  was a solemn appeal to Member States, but the last  part also requested the Director-General to make an  objective study. As a beginning, she suggested that  the Secretariat might collect all possible information  on the research already undertaken in that domain  (history, political science, etc.) and further, it  might ask those scientific organizations which held  congresses during the next programme period, to  establish small working parties and discuss how in  their own branch it was possible to go forward along  the lines proposed in the resolution. Mrs. Myrdal  mentioned the tentative figure of $10, 000 in that  connexion.
(14) In submitting the joint resolution to the vote,  the CHAIRMAN said that he felt very moved by at.  It was a fine example of tolerance, moderation and  understanding, and was of a completely different  kind from the resolutions which the Commission  adopted, with or without a vote, in the course of an  ordinary day's work. He hoped that, if the rules  permitted, the document would be adopted unanimously  by acclamation.
(15) The delegate of Colombia having put the Chair-  man's suggestion in the form of a motion, the draft  resolution was adopted unanimously by acclamation.
(16) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL remarked that 1t  was clear in all minds that the new resolution   PROGRAMME AND  represented a very important development in the  history of Unesco. The Organization would do all in  its power to carry it out and to obtain the best  possible results from the work it would undertake in  that field,  MEN 8.4.3 OF REVISED AGENDA : SOCIAL SCIENCES  (continued)  Project 3.4: Social science and problems of  international understanding and tensions {paragraphs
(17) Mr. BRICHET (France) was unconditionally  in favour of sections (A) Roads to agreement:  mediation and other techniques for avoiding conflict,  and (C) Improved information on foreign cultures.  He felt some doubts, however, about section (B)  Public acceptance or rejection of Unesco and United  Nations principles. He wondered whether public  opinion was sufficiently alive to such questions and  stated that, in French country districts, for example,  those principles were generally unknown, although  they awakened great interest in all who were informed  about them.
(18) The French delegate also pointed out that there  were contradictions in the dates and thought that a  stricter order should be observed for the activities  con.erned. In conclusion, he took the view that it  was not yet possible to enter into the active phase  and that section (B) of the project required additional  study. He proposed that the relevant appropriations  be deleted and transferred to some other part of the  programme, where they would be more useful.
(19) At the CHAIRMAN's request, Mr. CHEVALIER  (Secretary of the Commission) pointed out that the  activities under section (B) had been classed by the  Advisory Committee on Prograinme and Budget in  Category 3 (document 8C/BUD/1, page 12).
(20) Mr. ANGELL (United States of America)  wondered if Mrs. Myrdal had talked the subject over  with the scientific groups.
(21) Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom) felt  that the chapter in question was the weakest in the  programme of Social Sciences, which was generally  excellent. It was an intractable subject for practical  measures, Sections (A), (B) and (C) were inadequate  and could not be carried out without a stand being  taken on controversial matters. Documents showing  the failure of the techniques in question would have to  contain critical remarks about governments, which  Unesco could not publish. On (B) the delegate of the  United Kingdom agreed with the French delegate. On  (C) he remarked that education through seminars was  part of Unesco's normal work, Sir Charles hoped that  Mrs. Myrdal would study and prepare the section further  before there was any question of its implementation.
(22) Mr. KABIR (India) agreed that the project  should be postponed.
(23) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences) said that, before reaching a decision on  - 431 -     BUDGET COMMISSION IV-24  section (A), draft resolution 21 should be discussed.
(24) With regard to (C), there was a great need for  experts on technical assistance missiors to have an  understanding of foreign cultures. The pamphlets  were intended to counteract the stereotyped infor-  mation that was so abundant on foreign countries.  The idea had won support from many quarters, and  the United States National Commission had asked  Unesco to be more active in that field.
(25) On (B) views were divided and, in view of the  budget increase, Mrs. Myrdal was willing to reduce  the figure under raragraph 155 and defer the  implementation of paragraph 156.
(26) Mr. TOROCHESNIKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) supported the whole of project 3.4 and  made some general remarks on the Social Sciences  chapter as a whole.
(27) It was recognized in the USSR that differences  of opinion did not preveit co-operation between  scientists. Such co-operation was rendered still  more necessary by the coexistence of different social  and economic systems. Sociologists, economists,  statisticians, demographers, etc., all working in  the field of the social sciences, should join forces  in the battle for peace and against the threat of a  new war, for the peaceful coexistence of the two  systems, the expansion of economic and cultural  relations between all nations on a basis of equality  and mutual interest, against all forms of discrimi-  nation and for all democratic rights and freedoms,  for the raising of the living standard of the masses  and aid to the economically underdeveloped countries.
(28) The Soviet delegate congratulated Unesco on  having included in its social science programme, and  particularly in project 3.4, a question as important  as international co-operation and the elimination of  tensions in international relations.
(29) In conclusion, he stated that the Soviet delega-  tion would vote for the Social Sciences chapter in the  hope that the fight for a lasting peace and the improve-  ment of the living conditions of mankind would in  future be a guiding principle in the work of Unesco  and the organizations co-operating with it. At the  same time the Soviet delegate made it clear thai the  application of those resolutions should in no way run  counter to the national laws of the various countries  concerned.
(30) Mrs. JOBORU (Hungary) considered that any  effort to reduce international tension was at the  heart of Unesco's work, and that not only should all  items in that part of the programme be maintained,  but further items added to it, such as the proposal  of an international conference of outstanding social  scientists from countries with different social  systems, and the issuing of a high-level publication  in which leading scientists and statesmen could  express their outlook on tensions, as explained in  the motion of the Indian delegation.
(31) Mr. FORSYTH (New Zealand) referred to  section (C). He enquired how an objective picture  could be obtained. Would not much more harm be  done in the country that was written about than good  to the scientists visiting it?   IV-24 PROGRAMME AND
(32) Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom) moved  a resolution that the whole section be referred back  to the Director-General for further study. He would  like the section kept in the programme, and sug-  gested that the Director-General might produce a  broad outline to be submitted to a small meeting on  Monday or Tuesday.
(33) Mr. ANGELL (United States of America) wished  to make it clear that he had not intended his earlier  intervention as a criticism. He did not wish Mrs.  Myrdal to receive the impression that her programme  was not approved of. He would agree to minor  changes, but it should not be reduced, in view of the  resolution just voted by the meeting.
(34) The proposal of the United Kingdom delegate,  suppor.ed by the delegate of Hungary, to refer  project 3. 4 back to the Director-General was put to  the vote and adopted by 32 votes to 0, with 5  abstentions.  ITEM 8.4.4 OF REVISED AGENDA - CULTURAL ACTIVITIES  (continued)
(35) Mr. PANNETON (Canada) explained his delega-  tion's attitude towards the budget for the Department  of Cultural Activities. While recognizing the major  importance of the Department's programme, he  protested against the unexpected increases in its  budget, which were in danger of upsetting a balance  which the Secretariat had had great difficulty in  attaining.
(36) Mr. Panneton could detect little sign of efforts  to achieve concentration, although concentration was  supposed to be the keynote of the current session.  For example, the number of organizations to be  granted subventions had increased from 7 to 15. He  expressed regret that the directives issued by the  General Conference at its seventh session had not  been better followed and had not inspired greater  moderation in the various delegations.  Project 4.13: Implementation of international  conventions and preparation of international agree-  ments (continued)  (B) Internatioral Convention for the Protection of  Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict  (paragraphs 101-110) and document 8C/PRG/23
(37) Mr. LORENTZ (Poland) drew the Commission's  attention to the restrictions contained in the Con-  vention signed at Th Hague. For example, under  paragraph 2 of Article 11, it was possible, in  exceptional cases of unavoidable military necessity  during an armed conflict, for immunity to be  withdrawn from cultural property under special  protection upon the order of the officer commanding  a force the equivalent of a division in size or larger.
(38) The Polish delegate pointed out that the world  had seen many instances of the destruction of cultural  treasures, but never in the past had those held  responsible for such destruction been excused or  their acts legalized; on the contrary, they had been  considered unpardonable acts of vandalism.  - 432 -     BUDGET COMMISSION
(39) Invoking paragraph 5 of the Protocol to The  Hague Convention, Mr. Lorentz claimed the restora-  tion of Polish cultural treasures deposited in other  countries during the war.
(40) ‘The delegate of Poland declared that his  Government had signed the Convention and Protocol  to demonstrate Poland's firm desire for cultural  co-operation with all nations and to show its will  to reach common agreement, even with those whose  outlook and opinions were entirely different from  its own,
(41) The Polish delegation accepted the whole of  section (B) of project 4.13, in the hope that the  national advisory committees set up under resolution  II annexed to The Hague Convention would know how  to interpret the articles and induce the different  nations to take action in accordance with the spirit  rather than the letter of the Convention.
(42) The Polish delegate expressed the hope that the  various documents would ensure lasting protection,  not only of the cultural property of nations, but also  of the cultural heritage of mankind as a whole.
(43) Miss NEFFA (Lebanon) stated that the Lebanese  Government attached special importance to the  International Convention for the Protection of  Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Ccnflict.  It hoped that the Secretariat would give priority to  that part of the programme, and that it would, in  particular, ensure wider dissemination of informa-  tion on problems relating to monuments to all  countries interested, such as those of the Middle  East.
(44) She suggested that, in order to ensure wider  circulati. a of information, the Manual mentioned
1n paragraph 109 should be distributed not only to  fine arts ministries, but also to National Commis-  sions and to all the museums of the Middle East.
(45) Mr. NAVRATIL(Czechoslovakia) reminded the  Commission that his delegation was represented  on the Working Party on International Regulations,  and had voted for the resolution concerning the  Report on the Results of the Intergovernmental Con-  ference on the Protection of Cultural Property in  the Event of Armed Conflict. With the object of  recalling Unesco's basic aims, it had moved an  amendment to that resolution, consisting of the  insertion of the following words before paragraph 3:  "While pursuing the aim, prescribed in the  Constitution, of strengthening the defences of a  peace founded on the intellectual and moral solidarity  of mankind ...... "
(46) The Czechoslovak delegate regretted that that  idealistic clause had not been accepted, for it would  have strengthened Unesco's moral standing with the  public.
(47) As it had voted for the draft resolution, the  Czechoslovak delegation would not propose the  amendment a second time, but would content itself  with the foregoing statement of principle made  before the Commission.
(48) Mrs. REINOSO DE RODRIGUEZ (Philippines)  was strongly in favour of the Convention for the  Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of  Armed Conflict. The smallest piece of cultural   PROGRAMME AND  property was a link between the past and the future.  The amount budgeted in paragraph 110 was fully  justified.
(49) Mr. ESTELRICH (Spain) seconded the suggestion  made by the Lebanese delegate with a view to obtain-  ing the widest possible circulation for the Manual on  the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of  Armed Conflict.
(50) Mr. WIDDOWSON (Union of South Africa)  approved document 8C/PRG/4, but wished to substi-  tute, in paragraph 4 of the resolution the word  "recommends" for the word "requests”. The  resolution has been seconded by the delegate of the  United States of America and adopted, without  opposition, with one abstention.
(51) Mr. LINKSON (Australia) wished to clarify the  position of his Government: Australia's signing of  the final act and Convention adopted by the Conference  should not be understood to prejudge its final  decision with regard to becoming a party to the  Convention, That question was at present under  consideration.
(52) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) had certain reserva-  tions to make in respect of the International  Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property  in the Event of Armed Conflict.
(53) In reply to a remark by Mr. THOMAS (Director,  Department of Cultural Activities), Mr. PHOTIADES  (Greece) said that, while it was true that Greece  had signed the Convention, his Government had  instructed him to put forward certain reservations  relating to the application of its provisions.
(54) Paragraphs 101-110 were then put to the vote  and adopted, with one abstention.
(55) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural  Activities) pointed out that the Commission's  decisions applied to the Report of the Working Party  on International Regulations (document 8C/PRG/23)  and not to the Report on the Results of the Inter-  governmental Conference on the Protection of  Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict  (document 8C/PRG/4).
(56) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commission)  then read the draft resolution on page 7 of the Report  {document 8C/PRG/4), which had been adopted by  the Working Party without opposition abstention  (document 8C/PRG/23, pages 1 and 2).
(57) Mr. LINKSON (Australia) suggested a change  of one word in paragraph 5: "to ensure application  of the provisions" should be replaced by "to request  application of the provisions".
(58) Mr. BRICHET (France) pointed out that The  Hague Convention could hardly be modified, even if  it were only a question of a single word, since that  Convention had been signed by government  representatives in May.  - 433 -     BUDGET COMMISSION 1V-24
(59) The draft resolution submitted by the Working  Party on International Regulations and relating to  the protection of cultural property in the event of  armed conflict was adopted, with 3 abstentions.  (C) International agreements on the exchange of  publications and the microfilm reproduction of  documents (paragraphs 111-113)
(60) Adopted without discussion.  (D) International regulations with regard to  archaeological excavations (paragraphs 114-117)
(61) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commission)  drew attention to the report on the desirability of  establishing international regulations with regard to  archaeological excavations (document 8C/PRG/5).  The Working Party also submitted to the Commission  a draft resolution appearing on page 3 of its report  (document 8C/PRG/23).
(62) Mr. ESTELRICH (Spain) supported the pro-  posals for international regulations with regard to  archaeological excavations.
(63) Speaking not as a delegate but in a private  capacity, Mr. Estelrich wished to draw the attention  of those responsible for the preparation of the  preliminary draft regulations to the fact that there  were archaeological zones of great prehistoric and  historical Importance, such as Tangiers, which  were at the same time, politically speaking,  international zones.
(64) Mr. ROMANO MUNOZ (Mexico) pointed out  that, in his country, there were real archaeological  treasures which had a valuable contribution to make  to knowledge of ancient cultures. For that reason,  his delegation would support the establishment of  international regulations with regard to archaeological  excavations.
(65) Mr. HUZAYIN (Egypt) represented a country  with cultural values rooted in prehistory. Its  experience of excavations that had not been carried  out on a scientific basis had led it to believe that  rules were very valuable, and that where they were  not followed it was better to leave antiquities  untouched. His country would be glad to co-operate  with any committee that might be established with a  view to setting up such regulations, Egyptian  non-governmental organizations offered their support.
(66) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) stated that his  Government would prefer a fairly flexible system of  protection by means of an international convention  containing only the bare principles on which 1t  would be easy to reach agreement. Such a conven-  tion would be supplemented by recommendations,  and experience would show which were the countries  determined to conform to the convention.
(67) Mr. LORENTZ (Poland) recalled the statement  which he had made in the Working Party on the  subject of archaeological excavations. In Poland,  archaeological excavations had shown marked  expansion during recent years and had aroused keen   IV-24 PROGRAMME AND  interest both in government circles and among the  public,
(68) Poland would gladly take part in excavations  undertaken on an international scale and in the  preparation of a convention relating thereto.
(69) The Polish delegate expressed his approval of  the project and his willingness to co-operate in the  drafting of international regulations with regard to  excavations.
(70) Mrs. ZUEV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) stated that the Soviet delegation had no  objection to resolution 4.132, but would like to make  some comments on the proposal to establish interna-  tional regulations with regard to archaeological  excavations.
(71) The Soviet Government attached great impor-  tance to the scientific value of archaeological  excavations and to the preservation of historic  monuments. All archaeological monuments in the  USSR were classified by the Government in  accordance with the laws in force. Archaeologists  had the right to declare a particular area important,  after which there could be no further building in it  until it had been inspected by the State, the Academy  of Sciences of the USSR, or those of the Federated  Republics. Excavations were conducted in accor-  dance with a State plan and under the supervision of  the academies.
(72) Every year, scores of scientific missions  carried out excavations and drew up reports,  describing the archaeological monuments 1n scientific  terms. Cultural treasures were preserved where  found or transferred to museums. The Moscow  History Museum contained more than 900, 000 objects  discovered by archaeologists.
(73) Soviet archaeologists had acquired a great deal  of experience in the organization and utilization of  archaeological excavations and were ready to share  their experience with archaeologists of other  countries.
(74) Mr. SUZUKI (Japan) drew the Commission's  attention to the fourth paragraph of the resolution on  the regulations with regard to archaeological  excavations, referring to excavations in occupied  territory. In his opinion, the rights of an occupied  territory where excavations were being carried out  should be fully safeguarded, and its position in  relation to the occupying power strengthened.
(75) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) shared the Belgian  delegate's opinion and thought that what had started  as a recommendation, and had already begun to be  implemented, might later be incorporated in an  international agreem<nt.
(76) He added tha. it would be interesting one day  to write a history of the objects of archaeological  value scattered throughout tne museums of the world,  including a description of the road they had  travelled before coming to rest in the museums.
(77) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural  Activities) observed that the Working Party had  advocated international regulations in the form of a  recommendation to Member States, in accordance  with procedure laid down by the General Conference.  BUDGET COMMISSION
(78) ‘fhe Working Par.y's proposal under item
2. 4.4.3 of the agenda concerning the international  regulation of archaeological excavations was adopted,  together with its resolution relating to draft regu-  lations tor international competitions in architecture  (document 8C/PRG/23).  Project 4, 14: Unesco library and reference  services (paragraphs 118-121)
(79) Mr. KABIR (India) felt that, however valuable  the services rendered under that project, the  provision of $53, 000 a year for staff and $13, 000  other costs was somewhat high, and ought to be  Justified by making the library available to Member  States upon request, in the form of mimeographic  copies, for example.
(80) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural  Activities) informed the Commission that the Unesco  library was chiefly stocked with reference works,  collections of reviews and periodicals, and other  publications necessary to the proper functioning of  the different sections of the Secretariat, The  library also had a service responsible for documen-  tation and the checking of bibliographies included in  Unesco publications. At present, it included 12,500  reference works, and 13,000 volumes necessary for  the carrying out of Unesco's ordinary and technical  assistance programmes. It received about 2, 000  requests per month. Further, the Unesco library  availed itself of the lending services of all the  Paris libraries.
(81) Apart from the services which it rendered to  the Secretariat, the library, in spite of its limited  means, placed its services as far as possible at the  disposal of Member States.
(82) Mr. HOPE (Rapporteur), speaking as delegate  of the United States of America, had no objection  to the project but questioned its being placed in the  chapter on Cultural Activities.
(83) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL replied that it was  really as well placed there as anywhere else. He  was reluctant to add to the units working directly  under the Director-General's office.
(84) Project 4.14 was adopted.
(85) The CHAIRMAN, observing that the Commis-  sion was behindhand with its work, urged delegates,  in examining the programme resolutions, to leave  the Secretariat a certain amount of freedom in  carrying them out.
(86) No objections having been raised, the above  procedure was approved.
(87) Mr. BRANCA (Italy) reiterated the proposal of  the Italian delegation to increase the subvention  granted by Unesco to the International Association  of the Visual Arts by $2, 000, thereby bringing it  up to $8,000 per annum. He reminded the Commis-  sion that the result of the vote on the proposal had  been divided, 20 for and 20 against, and he therefore  requested the Commission to vote a second time, in    - 434 -   PROGRAMNME AND  sccordance with Rule 80 of the Rules of Procedure  of the General Conference.
(88) Mr. PANNETON (Canada) having observed that  the taking of the second vote should appear on the  Commission's agenda, the CHAIRMAN read Rule 80  and Mr. BRANCA (Italy), referring to certain pre-  cedents, requested that his proposal be incluied on  the agenda of the next meeting, should the  Commission decide against taking an immediate vote.
(89) The delegates of France and Greece having  moved that a vote be taken immediately on the  proposed increase, it was approved by 25 votes to
15, with 4 abstentions.  Project 4.2: Preservation of the cultural heritage  of mankind  Paragraphs 122-131
(90) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) remarked that the  Secretariat had studied the possibility of setting up  the centre proposed under (A) either in Brussels or  in Rome. The cultural co-operation existing  between his country and Italy was a source of great  satisfaction to him and he had no desire to create  competition; he therefore proposed that the  Director-General be asked to decide on the choice  of the town in consultation with the Executive Board.  He hoped that the Italian delegation would agree  to that proposal. (Mr. Branca indicated his assent.)
(91) Dr. KEKHIA (Libya) begged leave to present  his delegation's draft resolution on archaeological  research in Libya (document 8C/DR/111). He  observed that the proposal fitted into the project  under discussion and entailed no additional expense.
(92) Mr. BRICHET (France) believed that many  countries had needs similar to those of Libya and  expressed the hope that the Libyan proposal would be  submitted to the International Committee on  Monuments. He moved adjournment of the debate  on the proposal.
(93) Mr. HUZAYIN (Egypt) strongly supported the  delegate of Libya. The case or Libya was a very  special one and deserved all the encouragement and  useful service the establishment of an institute in  that area would provide.
(94) Mr. ESTELRICH (Spain) seconded the proposal.
(95) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) requested the Libyan delegate  to confirm that his proposal had no budgetary  implications.
(96) Dr. KEKHIA (Libya) having given the assur-  ance requested, his proposal was put to the vote and  adopted by 43 votes, with 4 abstentions.
(87) Mr. BRICHET (France), returning to the  subject of the budget estimates for the establishment  of the centre, noted that it was proposed to spend  most of the money on the remuneration of a legal  - 435 -     BUDGET COMMISSION IV-24  expert to draw up the centre's statutes. In his  opinion, Unesco's Legal Adviser was perfectly  capable of doing the work and he proposed the  deletion of the estimates in paragraph 131.
(98) Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom) had  been about to make the same point. It was an item  which might lead to large expenditure at a later date.  It was possible today to get a good deal of advice at  the big museums, and it was doubtful if an interna-  tional centre would be able to provide anything  as good.
(99) The CHAIRMAN, speaking as delegate of  Switzerland, emphasized the importance of setting  up an international study centre. The International  Council of Museums and the International Committee  on Monuments were both responsible bodies and  perfectly capable of establishing such a centre.  Some of the large museums in different parts of the:  world had developed techniques leaving little to be  desired, but small museums still made many  mistakes. He was therefore in favour of maintaining  the amounts proposed in paragraph 131.
(100) After the representative of the Executive  Board had stated that the Board was in favour of the  project, Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) drew the Commission's attention  to the fact that the estimate for 1955 was divided  into two parts, namely contract ($900) and staff  travel ($120). He requested the French delegate  to rely on the judgment of the Director-General as  far as travel was concerned. He recalled, moreover,  that the Italian delegate had expressed approval of  the project. The only object of Mr. Thomas”  explanation was to make it clear why the proposed  sums were necessary.
(101) Mr, BRICHET (France) having pressed for the  deletion of the sum of $300, Mr. BRANCA (Italy)  seconded the proposal that the centre's statutes  should be drawn up by specialists in the Secretariat,  without the help of an outside expert.
(102) The French proposal, seconded by the United  Kingdom delegation, was put to the vote and adopted  by 25 votes to 6, with 10 abstentions.
(103) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commis-  sion) then read the last two paragraphs of the Indian  draft resolution contained in document BC/DR/17.
(104) The Advisory Committee on Programme and  Budget had advised rejection of the project and the  Executive Board had considered it premature.
(105) Mr. KABIR (India), speaking on the last  paragraph of DR/17, was very keen to promote that  activity. His Government would be prepared to  sacrifice the proposed museum in Chandigarh, the  new capital of East Punjab, for the sake of having  the museum in New Delhi.
(106) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) explained that, 1f it were a  question of exploring the possibilities of establishing  such a laboratory, Unesco would have no need to call   IV-24 PROGRAMME AND  on outside experts and there would be no budgetary  implications. If, on the other hand, a mission of  experts were proposed, that would not be possible  within the present programme. As far as fellowships  were concerned, two additional fellowships, totalling  $5, 800, would have to be provided for out of the  budget of the Exchange of Persons Service.
(107) Mr. Thomas believed that the Executive Board  had drawn the Indian delegation's attention to the  desirability of establishing an international centre  before a regional one for South and South East Asia.
(108) Mr. PANNETON (Canada) thought that the  Indian Government might establish the laboratory.
(109) In the light of all the comments made, the  Indian delegation withdrew its proposal.  (B) Centre of photographic documentation on  Egyptian antiquities (paragraphs 132-134)
(110) Adopted witho :t discussion.  (C) International Committee on Monuments  (paragraphs 135 and 136)
(111) Adopted without discussion.  (D) Cataloguing and preservation of Middle Eastern  manuscripts (paragraphs 137-144)
(112) Miss NEFFA (Lebanon) fully supported the  project, since the importance of the manuscripts  was universally recognized. She hoped that Unesco  would attach to the inventory all the importance which  it deserved and that the work would be carried on  even after the two-year period covered by the draft  programme, She therefore suggested inserting in  the work plan, not only that the Secretariat would  consult the States concerned, but also that it would  take advantage of the forthcoming congress of  orientalists to consult experts on the choice of  manuscripts to be catalogued.
(113) The project was approved.  (E) Technical aid to Member States (paragraphs
(114) Mr. MENDIS (Ceylon), referring to paragraph
146, enquired whether the allocation provided here  would be sufficient to cover at least the six requests  that had been received from Member States and, if  not, what additional provision could be made for the  purpose.
(115) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) explained that mention had been  made only of requests already received. Since the  publication of document 8C/5, however, other  requests had come in and, if they were to be met,  a marked increase in the budget would be necessary.
(116) Mr. THA HLA (Union of Burma) made a  general observation on the technical aid programme.  The work plans, architectural designs etc., he felt,  should be very broadly stated in order that the  - 436 -     BUDGET COMMISSION  requests of Member States could be met with the  required flexibility, The Secretariat should give  preference to those national projects for which  national authorities had already provided the major  part of the cost. He insisted that, since the  requests submitted by his Government and that of  Libya had been made as early as 1950, the mission  proposed should at least include those two requests.
(117) Mr. MENDIS (Ceylon) proposed that the budget  in paragraph 147 should be doubled.
(118) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) reminded  the Commission that the Brazilian and Egyptian  delegations had originally been responsible for the  inclusion of the project. When it had been drawn up  in 1950 it had been realized that it meant imposing  a heavy burden on Unesco, since, to carry it out  successfully, enormous sums would be needed. In  order to raise the necessary money, various methods  had been employed, including a tourist tax.
(119) Unesco was at present in a difficult position,  for the aid which it was able to give, although  necessary, was more or less symbolic. The  Brazilian delegate concluded by seconding the  proposal of the delegate of Ceylon, which was also  supported by the delegates of Liberia and Egypt.
(120) The CHAIRMAN warned the Commission  against unforeseen or disproportionate increases in  the budget. He recalled that it had already agreed  to important increases in the budgets of the  Departments of Educationand Natural Sciences.
(121) Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom)  claimed that it would be an irresponsible decision  to double the amount so suddenly for an item which  the Secretariat had considered at great length. He  felt, too, that Member States ought to snow their  need of a project by themselves offering to pay a  large part of the expense.
(122) Mr. FORSYTH (New Zealand), with all respect  for the position of those who had put up the proposal,  felt that the living (in such things as fundamental  education in particular) came before dead monuments,  given Unesco's limited budget.
(123) Mr. SHARIF (Pakistan) warmly supported the  delegate of Ceylon. Replying to the United Kingdom  delegate's remark, he said that such missions were  followed up by very considerable expenditure in the  carrying out of advice given. To the delegate of  New Zealaud he replied that museums were a  powerful source of education. The increase of ex-  penditure could surely be taken into consideration  by the Advisory Committee with all similar increases,  without affecting the budget ceiling.
(124) Mr. SHARIF commended the remarks of the  delegate of Burma.
(125) A vote was then taken on the proposal of the  delegate of Ceylon, which was adopted by 25 in  favour, 13 against and 9 abstentions.   PROGRAMME AND  Project 4.31: Humanistic studies in culture and  education
(126) Mr. ESTELRICH (Spain) approved the esti-  mates and also the Italian draft amendment to  resolution 4. 31 (B), paragraph 159 (document
(127) He thought that the rôle of the humanities in  contemporary culture was one of the major cultural  problems of the last thirty years. To disregard  their importance in the Western world was to  disregard the past, present and future of Western  cwilization. The humanities at the present time, in  order to be relevant and operative, had to provide a  satisfactory answer te the aspirations and needs of  the modern world.
(128) Spain, in conformity with its humanistic  traditions, wished to take part in Unesco's surveys  and was ready to organize the necessary activities  in Spain, where a Society of Classical Studies  existed and had receatly beeu admitted to member-  ship of the International Federation of Societies of  Classical Studies at its Congress in Copenhagen.
(129) Mr. ZAMORANO HERNANDEZ (Chile)  approved the estimates for project 4.31, but wished  to make certain reservations, for the project  seemed to him to indicate a tendency in the depart-  ment concerned to identify the concept of the  humanities with the study of the classical literature  of East and West alike.
(130) Did not all human achievements throughout the  ages in the various artistic, literary, scientific and  technical fields belong to the entire world, and  should they not therefore be integrated in a wider and  more modern humanism ? Was it perhaps that the  training of a "man" was incompatible with the  training of a "factory hand", and literary education  incompatible with practical, technical education?
(131) In Mr. Zamorano Hernandez's opinion, the  notion of humanism developed in time with the  course of the social revolution and the evolution of  mar's interests, including his "scientific" interests,  without identification of the latter with any  occupational purpose.
(132) On those grounds, the delegation of Chile  could not subscribe unreservedly to the point of view  emerging from the two paragraphs under  consideration.
(133) The CHAIRMAN drew the Commission's  attention to the slowness with which the discussion  was proceeding. He would be compelled to ask the  General Committee whether the Commission should  be allowed to hold such long discussions, which  might make it necessary to prolong the eighth session  of the General Conference.
(134) Mr. NIELSEN (Denmark) proposed that, in  starting a new chapter, the general debate should be  omitted except for its introduction by the Chief of  the department.
(135) The CHAIRMAN proposed that, if the Rules of  Procedure permitted it, and if the Commission were  prepared to accept it, the number of speeches on  each subject be limited.  - 437 -     BUDGET COMMISSION IV-24
(126) After further discussion, the various  proposals, aiming at limiting the number of speeches,  were rejected.  The rôle of the humanities in contemporary culture  (paragraphs 153-156)
(137) Mrs. SCHLUETER-HERMKES (German  Federal Republic), disagreeing with the opinion  expressed by the Advisory Committee on Programme  and Budget, proposed that the project be given high  priority.
(138) She thought that the appropriations proposed  were insufficient.
(139) She was surprised that the results of  sociological research should have shown that the  importance atta: ned to classical and humanistic  studies was on the decresse, while, on the other  hand, interest in classica! and humanistic culture  was increasing among the masses. che concluded  by saying that letters must be saved if human values  were to survive.
(140) Mrs. PATRONETTO VALIER (Italy) drew the  Commission's attention to the draft amendment  submitted by the Italian delegation on the subject of  humanistic studies in education (document
8C/DR/78 (rev. )), which had no budgetary  implications,
(141) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) proposed  deletion of the estimates under paragraphs 156, 160  and 164. Those were important items but could not  be covered by the present budget.
(142) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) drew the Commis-  sion's attention to the wording of paragraph 153, with  particular reference to the listing of "intellectual  traditions, art and religion, and cultural values in  general". In his opinion, they were of unequal  value and should not be grouped together. He  thought that the Secretariat had made a mistake there.
(143) Miss MONTERO SAPRIZA (Pax Romana) said  that the international movement of Catholic intel-  lectuals which she represented favoured investigating  the amount of importance attachir.7 to classical and  humanistic studies in the cultural development of  communities, since, in view of the exigencies of  ultra-specialized modern life, when man was in  danger of being increasingly dominated by technology,  the need was felt to awaken interest in all forms of  culture, and more particularly in philosophy and art.
(144) In her view, it was not a matter of preparing  the individual exclusively for a particular branch of  technical work, but for fuller unde-standing of the  problems of his environment. It was not only  important to the individual that his mental horizon  should be enlarged by humanistic studies; for  international understanding and co-operation, those  studies had a real contribution to make.
(145) She reminded the Commission that one of  Unesco's aims was to encourage the development of  the means of disseminating works of art, affording  man the chance of enjoying the warks which con-  stituted humanity's artistic heritage. That being so,  she suggested that steps be taken to facilitate free
1v-24 PROGRAMME AND  access to museums, art galleries, etc., for the  largest possible number of persons, especially art  students and students in general; the ideal would be  for all, whatever their station, to have free access,  as was the case in almost all parts of the Americas.
(146) Mr. GOMEZ HOYOS (Colombia) thought that  the considerations advanced by the Advisory  Committee were a trifle inconsistent in that matter,  since they began by recognizing explicitly the value  of the Director-General's recommendations and  proposals in that part of the programme and ended  by expressing the view that they should be given a  different priority.
(147) He wished to make it quite clear that Lis  delegation most warmly supported the proposal of  the German Federal Republic that either the pro-  gramme and budget submitted in that section be  retained as it stood, or that it be increased; the  latter would have the effect of stimulating that  particular work a little more.
(148) Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom)  supported the delegate of Norway. The case in point,  he said, was one of the clearest examples of neglect  of the principle of concentration approved by the  Commission.
(149) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) did not intend to go into details  regarding the substance of the project; as far as  wording was oncerned, the Secretariat was in  agreement with the proposals made. The estimates  were modest and fitted in exactly with the work plan.  The point was, firstly, té stimulate the activities of  National Commissions and, secondly, to hand over  work to non-governmental organizations, against  remuneration in the form of contracts which did not  greatly increase the budget.
(150) The proposal of the Norwegian delegation to  delete the estimates in paragraph 156 was rejected  by 20 votes to 13, with 8 abstentions.
(151) The German proposal to increase the estimates
1n paragraph 156 by $12, 000 for the two years 1955  and 1956 was also rejected by 25 votes to 6, with 9  abstentions.  (B) Enquiry into the teaching of the humanities  (paragraphs 157-160)
(152) Mrs. PATRONFETTO VALIER (Italy) requested  that her delegation's amendment (document
8C/DR/78 (rev. )) be incorporated in the work plan  without any additional budgetary provision.
(153) Mr. CASSANI (Argentina) stated that his  delegation was much in favour of the Italian amend-  ment, but it introduced a concept - that of cultural  regions - which Argentina could not accept. If that  part of the amendment could be modified, his  delegation would support it.
(154) The estimates for paragraphs 157-160 were  approved.  - 438 -     BUDGET COMMISSION
(155) Mr. NIELSEN (Denmark) asked the  Secretariat to incorporate the Italian proposal in its  working plans, It did not affect the budget.
(156) Agreed.  (C) The use of radio and television in cultural  programmes (paragraphs 161-164) (Joint project  with the Department of Mass Communication)
(157) Mr. BRICHET (France) drew the Commis-  sion's attention to the importance of the relations  between radio and television organizations, on the  one hand, and the public on the other. He proposed  that the estimate in paragraph 164 be maintained,  despite the opinion expressed by the Advisory Com-  mittee on Programme and Budget.
(158) His proposal was adopted.  (D) A study of traditional cultures in communities  of South East Asia undergoing rapid technological  changes (paragraphs 165-171)
(159) Adopted without discussion.  Project 4.32: Education through the arts and the  crafts (paragraphs 172-184)  (A) Production of study materials and teaching aids  (paragraphs 177 and 178)
(160) Mr. BRICHET (France) drew the Commis-  sion's attention to the need for close contact between  the Departments of Cultural Activities and Education  in carrying out the project under discussion.
(161) Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom) on  paragraphs 177 and 178, suggested that the study  was important but could be improved if carried out  through the International Society for Education  through Art, which had at one time received a sub-  vention from Unesco, and ought still to receive one.
(162) Mi. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) stated that the Secretariat shared  the view of the United Kingdom delegate. That was  why contracts had been chosen instead of subventions  for the production of study materials and teaching  aids. He assured the French delegate that close  contact existed between his Department and other  Unesco services for the execution of joint projects.
(163) Miss NEFFA (Lebanon) did not think that the  publication of the proposed technical handbook would  be a sure method of achieving the end desired,  namely the development of education through the  arts and the crafts.
(164) It was understandable that, in science teachiag,  for example, a technical manual and materials for  practical work should be needed, in art teaching,  however, 1t was doubtful whether such a text would  be widelv used.
(165) She realized that she was dealing with a rather  delicate subject, but wished to draw the attention  of the Commission to it and to state that, while she  certainly approved the intentions underlying the   PROGRAMME AND  project, “he wos not very pleased with the work plans  as they stood.
(166) Paragraphs 172-178 were adopted,  (B) Promotion of adu.t education through the arts  {paragraphs 179-181)
(167) The Indian delegation having agreed to submit  its draft resolution to the Secretariat in the form of    BUDGET COMMISSION IV-25  a directive, the section was adopted without  discussion.  (C) Technical aid to Member States (paragraphs
(168) Adopted without discussion.  The meeting rose at 7 p.m.  TWENTY - FIFTH MEETING
2 December 1954 at 9,30 p.m.  Chairman: Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland)  later M. HOPE (Rapporteur) (United States of America)
(1) The CHAIRMAN, noting that there was no quorum,  suspended the meeting for ten minutes.
(2) When the meeting had reassembled, the Chair-  man suggested that, as he would be unable to remain  for the whole meeting, and as the three Vice-  Chairmen were detained elsewhere, the Rapporteur  be invited, in accordance with the rules, to preside  over the debates.
(3) Agreed.  Mr. Hope, Rapporteur, took the Chair.)  ITEM 8.4.4 OF REVISED AGENDA : CULTURAL ACTIVITIES  (continued)  Project 4.33: Contribution to fundamental education  (paragraphs 186-201)
(4) Mr. MUJEEB (India) observed that, if the project  for the planning and production of reading material  for new literates were adopted, it would mean  immediate and enormous benefit for millions of  people. With regard to paragraphs 189 and 190, the  Indian delegation was of opinion that it would be better  if, in the first place, the Member States and National  Commissions concerned were asked to collect, study.  and evaluate all the material that already existed, and  examine the methods used in the production of  literature for new literates and for its assessment  through field workers. Then Unesco should organize  regional conferences, with its experts as conveners,  to make a study of the material and the reports of  Member States, and to compare methods and  experience. The findings of those conferences would  serve as a basis for further action by Member States,  in consultation and collaboration with Unesco.
(5) Referring to paragraphs 191-199, the delegate of  India thought that the proposal that Unesco should  prepare a set of 24 books to form a nucleus of a series  - 439 -     of reading material for new literates was most  attractive. Experience tn India, however, suggested  that it would be advisable to have a larger number of  books, of 16 pages on an average, and the Director-  General might consider whether it would be possible  to have 50 books instead of 24 within the proposed  budget. The books should be written in the language  of the people for whom they were meant or ina  language whose idiom was not too different,
(6) With regard to the distribution of the books  referred to in paragraph 197, it would be better if  Unesco specified the subjects, the number and type  of illustrations for each book and the quality of the  printing, and offered to pay a reasonable percentage  of the cost to the Member States concerned, Arrange-  ments along those lines had been made by the Delhi  public library in India for the 25 booklets produced  by it.
(7) In preparing reading material for new literates,  the cost of production was of great importance. The  Indian delegation therefore especially welcomed the  proposal of assistance to Member States 1n printing  and distribution facilities, Further, it would suggest  that the offer of prizes made in paragraph 187 should  be made both to individuals and to organizations  engaged in literacy work, and that each organization  should be asked, when it sent in its scripts, to name  the person or persons to whom the preparation of the  scripts was entrusted and to whom it would give the  travelling fellowship or prize if its scripts were  considered the best.
(8) Mr. CHARYAVIBHAJ (Thailand) had read the  project with great interest and was sure that it would  be very much appreciated by the Member States  concerned. In his delegation's view, the chief  problem was the choice of experts, and the greatest  care should be taken in selecting them.
(9) With regard to choice of subjects, he suggested  the addition of very elementary textbooks on such  sub jects as farming, poultry-keeping etc., since