IV- 32 PROGRAMME AND BUDGET COMMISSION  THIRTY-SECOND MEETING  BDe ember 1958 at 10 a.m.  ( hatrman: Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland)  FXAVINATION OF THF REPORT OF THE ADVISORY  COMMITTEF ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET ON PROPOSED  REDUCTIONS TO KEEP THE DRAFT BUDGET WITHIN TIE  PROVISIONAL BUDGET CFILING (documenis 8C/BUD/4 and
8C/BUD/S)
(1) The CHAIRMAN invited the Commission to  examine documents 8C/BUD/4 and 8C/BUD/5. He  explained that the cuts in document §C/BUD/4 were  proposed by the Director-Jeneral, and those in  document 8C/BUD/5 by the Advisory Committee on  Programme and Budget. Both aimed at keeping the  budget within the limits laid down by the General  Conference at its thirteenth plenary meeting.
(2) The Chair man then called on Mr, Gardner  Davies, Chairman of the Advisory Committee, to  make a statement.
(3; Mr. GARDNER DAVIS (Chairman of the  Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget)  recalled that, when the Programme and Budget  Commission had concluded 1ts work on the draft  programme and budget, the budget corresponting to  the programme approved had exceeded the appro: od  provisional budget ceiling by $362,713. ‘rhe  Advisory Committee had consequently been asked by  the Programme and Budget Commission to adapt the  programme and budget to ‘hat ceiling, working on  the basis of proposals mace by the Director-General,  The reductions suggested by the Director-General  were contained in the second part of document
3C/BUD/4. The Committee had paid tribute to the  way 1n which the Director-General had accomplished  the difficult task of proposing reductions, often on  the basis of contradictory advice from the Advisory  Committee and the Programme and Budgei Commis=-  sion, and, on the whole, the Advisory Committee  considered his proposals to be very good.
(4) The procedure followed by the Advisory Com-  mittee had been to examine the proposed cuts one by  one and, where 1t did not agree with them, to propose  equivalent reductions in some other part of the pro-  gramme. For example, in the chapter on Natural  Sciences, the Committee tad opposed the proposed  cut of $15,000 in paragraph 137, but had suggested  a reduction. of $15,000 or the project in paragraph
102 - Basic research on cancer (document 8C/BULY 5). .  The decision had been carried by 6 votes to 4, with 1  abstention.
(3) In conclusion, Mr. Gardner Davies advised the  Programme and Budget Ccmmission to adopt the  same procedure, in examining the proposed reduc-  tions, as that followed by the Advisory Committee.
(6) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the Commission    should start by taking note of the First Part of  document 8C/BUD/4 {Resumé of Budgetary Effects of  Decisions taken by the Programme and Budget Com-  mission and the Adnun:strative Commission - pages
1-5). In that connexion, he drew delegates' attention  to the Note on page 4, on which a recent commenthad  bnen received from the Netherlands delegate; ihe  Note read as follov's:  "In addition, the Programme and Budget Comm.s-  sion recommended that, if funds are available, the  subventinn to ICSU be increased by $40,000 for two  years,"
(7) At the Chairman's request, Mr, SKENAZI  (Secretary, Advisory Conunittee un Programme and  Budget) read out the ietter in which the Netherlands  delegate proposed deletion from tne above Note of the  words: "if funds are available”. According to the  Netherlands delegate, the Programme and Budget  Commission had unconditionally approved the Nether-  lands proposal for the $40,000 .ncrease mentioned in  the text,
(8) With the summary record of the Commission's  fifteenth meeting (document 8C/PRG/SR, 15 prov.)  before him, Mr. Skenazi read out the paragraphs  relating to the discussion which had arisen out of tre  Netherlands propesal, and to the decision taken inthe  maiter.
(9) The CHAIRMAN remarked wnat everything  depended on whether the decision previously taken by  the Commission in regard to the Netherlands proposal  had been correctly understood.
(10) Mr. KRUYT (Netherlands) said that, as he had  pointed out in his letter, he had been under the 1m-  pression that the proposal in question had been  unconditionally approved, That was still his opinion,
(11) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL considered the Note  on page 4 to be a faithful account of the conclusions  reached by the Commission, 1.e, that the subvention  to tne International Council of Scientific Unions should  be increased only 1f other funds becarae available for  the purpose.
(12) Mr. ABEYWICKREMA (Ceylon) believed thatthe  decision had been to approve the additional sum,  provided that funds were available,
(13) Mr. SCOTT (United States of America) stated  that it was the view of his delegation that the  approval of the sum had been contingent upon  surplus funds being avaliable in some other part  of the programme.  - 488 -   PROGRAMME AND
(14) When attending the Advisory Committee on Pro-  gramme and Budget, Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway)  had thought that he had heard a clear statement of  what had been decided in the Programme and Budget  Commission. After hearing the summary record  read, however, he realized that the position was not  so clear and he feared that he had voted onthe wrong  premises. He would like the question to be ta’ en up  again in the Advisory Committee,
(15) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Chairman of the  Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget)  pointed out that the Advisory Committee had not voted  on the subject. There had been a note in an informa-  tion report from the DirectorGeneral, statingthat the  Programme and Budget Commission recommended  that additional funds be granted if available; as no  funds were available, the Committee had taken no  action or vote.
(16) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) regretted that he  had used the word "vote". What he had meant was  that his attitude had been determined by the informa-  tion in document 8C/BUD/4; 1t might have been  different if he had had the summary record before  him.
(17) Mr. PAGE (Canada), referring to his own  verbatim notes, thought it quite definite that the  motion to provide ICSU with an additional $20,000 per  annum had been contingentupon savings being made in  some other part ofthe Natural Sciences programme.
(18) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) pointed  out that the Commission had to take a decision on two  separate questions:  {a) a legal question: had the decision taken by the  Commission at its fifteenth meeting heen correctly  interpreted by the Secretariat?  (b) a question of substance: did the Commission  thenceforth wish to recommend thatthe subvention to  the International Council of Scientific Unions be  increased by $40,000, even if no additional funds became  available during the two-year period 1955-56?
(19) Since the Commission was at liberty to reopen  the discussion on the latter question, Mr. Maheu  requested that it concur in the Secretariat's interg -eta-  tion of the decision which it had taken at its fifteenth  meeting.
(20) Mr. FAWZI (Egypt) agreed with the Canadian  delegate in thinking that the Secretariat's interpreta-  tion was the right one. He very much hoped that, at  such a late stage in the Commission's work, that  discussion, which he at least had considered closed,  would not be reopened.
(21) At the Chairman's suggestion, the Commission  agreed to accept the Secretariat's interpretation for  the time being, onthe understanding that the discussion  of the question of substance could be reopened at a  later stage,
(22) The Commission having taken note of the First  Part of document 8C/BULY4, the CHAIRMAN requested  delegates to consider the reductions proposed in the  Second Part of the same document, 1n conjunction  with those in document 8C/BUD/5. He pointed out  BUDGET     COMMISSION IVv-32  that, In setting out each reduction, a reference had  been inser ted in thé marg:n to the relevant paragraph  in document 8CH; in discussing the various proposals,  therefore, the order of those paragraphs should te  followed.  PART I —~ GENE RAL PDIICY  Paragraph (17)
(23) The reduction proposed in document 8C/BUD/ 4  was approved,  PART Il — PROGRAMME OPERATIONS AND SERVICES  CHAPTER I — EDUCATION  Paragraphs (51) and (167)
(24) The reductions proposed in documé nt 8C/BUD/ 4  were approved,  Paragraph (175)
(25) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the Director-  General had proposed, document 8C/BUD/4, a  reduction of $16,800 on the project concerned, The  Advisory Committee's proposal, on the other hand,  was that a cut of only $14,800 should be made  (document 8C/BUD/5) and that a saving of $1,500  which had become available under General Resolutions,  paragraph 21, should be transferred to the project  (Evaluation of a national pilot project in school  education),
(26) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) proposed that the $1,500  just mentioned should not be used for the project out-  lined in paragraph (175), but should be deducted from  the $2,000 cut proposed by the Advisory Committee In  paragraph (384) (Associated Youth Enterprises), That  cut would thus be brought down to $500,
(27) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  stated that the Secretariat had no serious views onthe  subject. The original sum of $16,800 had been re-  duced to $2,000, but the Advisory Committee had  decided that a sum of $1,500 which had become  available under General Resolutions, should be added  to it, making a total of $3,500. The result of the  French proposal would be to restore the appropriation  for paragraph (175) to $2,000, leaving the project in  paragraph (384) with a reduction of only $500 instead  of $2,000,
(28) The French delegate's proposal concerning  paragraphs (175) and (384) was approved,  Paragraphs (185), (192), (213), (218); (413 and (145)
(29) The reductions proposed 1n document 8C/BUD/4  were approved,  - 489 -   IV-32 PROGRAMME AND  CHAPTFR 2 = NATLRAI SCIENCES  Paragraphs (58) and (79)
(30) The reductions proposed in document 8C/BUD/4  were approved. :  Paragraph (102)
(31) The CHAIRMAN explained that the cut proposed  in document 8C/BUD/S concerned basic research on  cellular growth. As he wished to take part in the  discussion as an ordinary delegate, he asked Mr,  Umreiko, Vice-Chairman of the Commission, to take  the Chair temporarily.
(32) Acting as Chairman, Mr, UMREIKO (Soviet Socia-  list Rep .blic of Byelorussia) calledupon Mr. Bourgeois  tospeak, adding thathe would remaininthe Chair until  the end of the discussion on paragraph (102),
(33) Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland) exp.essed keen  regret that the Advisory Committee should have scen  fit torecommend reducing by $15,000 the funds ear-  marked for basic research on cellular growth, Those  funds, he reminded the Commission, had been  requested so that Unesco might investigate ways of  co-ordinating such research at the international level  The importance of such an enquiry had been repcatedy  stressed, since 1948, in resolutions and statements  issued by the Economic and Social Council, a Com-  mittee of Experts convened jointiy by the United  Nations and Unesco, the International Advisory  Committee on Research in the Natural Sciences  Programme, the Executive Board of Unesco and the  present Commission.
(34) The reduction proposed in document 8C/BUD/5  had been approved by the Advisory Committee, but  only by a very small majority. Mr. Bourgeois  therefore hoped that the Commission, fully aware of  the extent to which the project concerned might help  In solving the cancer problem, would recommend to  the General Conference that it should not make the  proposed cut.
(35) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) seconded the gelegate  of Switzerland. He pointed out that, if the reductions  proposed in paragraph (102) were put into effect, the  funds available for basic research on cellular growth  woud be reduced to $2,680 for two years. It should  be noted that the Advisory Committee had recom-  mended restoring the $15,000 which the Director-  General had suggested cutting out 1n paragraph (137)  (Technical Aid to Member States). Even without those  $15,000, there would still be an appropriation of  $30,000 for the project in paragraph (137), and that  would appear to be all the more adequate since sums  set aside in the Exchange of Persons Chapter for the  financing of certain fellowships might be considered  as additional to it. Mr. François therefore proposed  that the Co.nmission recommend to the Conference  that it approve the reductions proposed by the  Director-General in paragraph (137) and that the  original estimates for paragraph (102) be retained.
(36) Mr. VERONESE (Italy) seconded the two previous  speakers and expressed his conviction that the study  BUDGET     COMMISSION  proposed in paragraph (102) was eminently suitable  for Unesco,
(37) Mr. HACQUAERT (Belgium) was in favour of the  $15,000 reduction proposed by the Director -General  in paragraph (137).
(38) In order to clarify the discussion, he recalled  that the Advisory Committee on Programme and  Budget had voted on two questions, one after the other,
(39) The first question had beep vwnether the Com-  mittee wished to link together the decisions it would  be taking on paragraphs (102) and (137). The Com-  mittee nad voted In favour of In;ting those decisions  by 7 votes to 4, with 2 abs.entions,
(40) The second quest.uon had been whether to reduce  the appropriation for pa: agraph (103 by $15 600. The  Committee had voted in favour of that reduction by 6  votes to 4, with 3 abstent..
(41) Sir John SIMONSEN (Umted Kingdom) thought  that most of the speeches made had been somewhat  emotional, It was a purely scientific problem and the  question was whether or not Unesco could contribute  to .ts solution. As the delegate of Belgium, a distin-  guished biochemist, had said inthe Advisory Committee  on Programme and Budget, there was no scientific  evidence that research on cellular metabolism would  necessarily affect the cancer problem. Personally  Sir John Simonsen believed that the solution might  well come, not from teamwork in the laboratory, but  from some unexpected source, Feeling, therefure,  that Unesco could not usefully contrivute to the solu-  tion of the problem, the United Kingdom delegation  supported the proposal of the Advisory Committee on  Programme and Budget.
(42) Mr. STOLETOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) declared that.nis delegation had found the  arguments of the delegates of Switzerland, France,  Italy and Belgium in defence of the project in para-  graphs 101-102 entirely convincing. The Soviet  delegatior. therefore supported the maintenance of the  sum of $15,000 under paragraph (102).
(43) Mgr MARGUN (Lebanon) pointed out that the  funds provided under paragraph (102) were intended to  enable Unesco to co-ordinate, at the international level  research on cellular growth being carried out in the  various countries. He considered that, even if such  research did not in the end provide the answer to the  problem of cancer, the funds in question could not be  appreciably reduced without a danger of misinterpre-  tation by the press, and without, consequently,  harming Unesco's prestige. He accordingly advocated  the retention of the original estimates.
(44) Mr. LINKSON (Australia) fully shared the  humanitarian feelings expressed by Lhe delegates of  Switzerland, France, Italy, Belgium and the USSR,  but he was not convinced that they were right in  judging it to be a humanitarian project. In his view,
1t might be a particularly cruel project, for it might  raise false hopes among sufferers from cancer  throughout the world, If the proposed reduction would  mean a hold-up of cancer research, the Austrahan  delegation would be unable to support it, but it was  obvious that a vast amount of cancer research would  - 490 -   PROGRAMME AND  continue, whether Unesco entered the field or not,  His delegation therefore seconded the proposal of the  Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget.
(45) Having listened to all the arguments for and  against the project, Mr. PAGE (Canada) wished to gu  on record as supporting whole-heartedly the proposal  of the Advisory Committee to reduce it by $15,000,
(46) Mr. NIELSEN (Denma.k) recalled that, when  the project in paragraph (102) had been debated  earlier in the programme, the Darish delegation had  voted for it. The project in paragraph (137) however,  was also very near to Mr, Nielsen's heart, and he  found himself in a difficult position.
(41) As a solution of the problem before the Cum -  mission, Mr. Nielsen suggested that it might be wise  to accept the reduction propnsed by the Advisory  Committee, instructing the Secretaria to find out, by  negotiations with WHO and correspondence with  Member States, whether it was likely that Unesco  could be of any assistance in the field of basic re-  search on cellular growth, He asked the Secretariat  if such a task could be carried out with the remaining  appropriation, and stated that he would reserve his  attitude until he had received a reply to his question,
(48) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) was emphatic tn pointing out that Unesco by  no means proposed, as the United Kingdom delegate  appeared to think, to embark independently on re-  search into cellular growth. What it did propose was  to co-ordinate and facil.tate work in progress in that  field in the various countries, Even though very  large sums might not be required for that purpose,  an adequate appropriation should nevertheless be  available for travel, so that the necessary contacts  might be established from the outset between mem-  bers of the Unesco Secretariat, laboratories in the  various countries and eminent scientists particularly  interested in cellular growth. The original estimates  in paragraph 102 might possibly be reduced to some  extent, but they shouid in any case remarn well above  the figure of $2,680, which would result from the cut  of $15,000 proposed by the Advisory Committee.
(49 Mr. MUDALIAR (India) supported the proposal  to maintain the sum of $15,000; he supported 1t not  on emotional grounds, however, but on the basis of  his personal experience as a medical man. In his  view, 1t was not true to say that Unesco's participa-  tion in the programme would create false hopes, It  should not be thought that Unesco was suddenly going  to discover data which research in so many parts of  the world had failed to reveal; but it seemed to him  that it would be appropriate for Unesco to enter into  the picture at thc present stage; the Organization  had a valuable part to play in co-ordinating such re-  search, disseminating results and stimulating new  activities. It had the great advantage of being in  contact with scientists of all disciplines in every part  of the world. It was true that excellent scientific  Journals existed, but it took some time for a scientist  to bring out an article in a journal, and it would be  far quicker for him to transmit the results o! his  research to Unesco for dissemination.
(59) The Indian delegation therefore considered thai  BUDGET     COMMISSION IV-32  there was no justification for reducing the appropria-  tion for paragraph 102 and moved that the original  appropriation be restored.
(51) Mr. BROWNEL. (United States of America)  stated that his delegation shared the views expressed  by the delegates of the United Kingdom, Australia and  Canada and would support the reduction proposed by  the Advisory Committee,
(52) Referring to a remark made by the delegate of  the United Kingdom, Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland)  claimed that he had approached the problem as a  scientist and had not let his feslings get the better of  his judgment, He was only too aware, however, of  the dangers of science, when it was not inspired by  humanitarian considerations, not to urge once more  that the originai estimates in paragraph 102 be  restored,
(53) Despite the asseruon of the United Kingdom  delegate, not all scientists agieed (hat there was -  practically no connexion between research on cellular  growth and possible answers to the cancer problem.  Even if such answers had finally to be sought else-  where, Mr. Bourgeois wished to emphasize that the  search could not be left to chance, and ne felt that the  task of international co-ordination which Unesco  proposed to undertake with the funds mentioned in  paragraph 102 vas nevertheless extremely worth  while.
(54) Mr. RAADI (Iran) vas also in favour of restoring  the appropriation concerned, There was no rcason  why all necessary precautions should not be take to  prevent the project from raising false hopes among  those zfflicted with cancer.
(55) The CHAIRMAN then invited the Commission to  vote on the proposals by the delegate of r'rance.
(56) The first proposal was to recommend to the  General Conference that 1t withhold its approval of  the reduction of $15,000 in paragraph (102) proposed  by the Advisory Committee.
(57) The above proposal was adopted by 25 votes to
13, with 5 abstentions,
(58) The CHAIRMAN next asked the Commission to  vote on the proposal to reccommend that the General»  Confer 2nce approve the reduction of $15,000 in  parag.ar. 137 proposed by the Director-General,
(59) The above proposal was unanimously adopted,
(60) Mr. Bourgeois having resumed the Chair, the  Commission went on to examine the reductions  proposed in paragraphs (172) onwards.  Paragraphs (172) and (196)
(61) The reductions proposed in document 8C/BUD/ 4  were approved,  Paragraph (197)
(62) Referring to the economy of $12,000 which it  was proposed to make by abolishing the Istanbul  Branch Office, Mr. TUNCEL (Turkey: asked Mr,  Auger to explain to the Commission why it was  proposed to close the Office.  - 491 -   v-32 PROGRAMS AND
(63) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) explained that the discussions cfthe General  Conference, and especially those of the Working Party  on Deceniralization, had siaown the wisdom of focuss-  ing the work of the Science Co-operation Offices cn  the execution of the programme and of cutting down  their information and documentation activities. The  Istanbul Office was hardly in a position to fol'ow the  new trend. Moreover, 1t had never been completely  autonomous, since it had always been more or less a  branch of the Cairo Office. If the Office were closed,  however, the Secretariat would do its utmost to en-  sure that Turkey and its National Commission  continued to benefit from assistance in the field of  svlence, similar to that which they had hither >  recerved from the Office. All that was involved was  a change in the method of affording such assistance.  (b4) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) drew the Commis-  sion's attention to the fact that the Istanbul Office was  the only Science Co-operation Office in Europe. In  his view it was extremely desirable to maintain it  and even to make it Independent so tnat it could work  directly with the Secretariat, instead of being subordi-  nate to the Cairo Office, as it had been in the past,
(35) Mr. TUNCEL (Turkey) emphasized the import-  ance of the past achievements of the Istanbul Office  «nd proposed, es already suggested by Mr. Photiades,  that the post be maintained as an independent Office.
(66) Mr. SAMBURSKY (Israel) seconded the view  expressed by the Director of the Department of  Natural Sciences. He recalled that the Istanbul  Branch Office had been established to serve three non  Arab countries in the region, namely Iran, Israel and  Turkey. He was not aware of the opinion of [ran, but  in Israel it had been found more effective to be in  direct contact with Headquarters in Paris. He did  not think that Turkey need fecl that her prestige was  involved: it was merely a question of adopting the  most effective method and of saving Unesco money,
(87) Mr. ABEYWICKREMA (Ceylon) asked Mr.  Auger which countries were at present being served  by the [stanbul Branch Office.
(68) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) replied that the Istanbul Office primarily  served Turkey. He thought that the aid which the  latter at present received from the Office could be  furnished under Unesco's new programme to govern  its relations with National Commissions,
(69) Mr. RAADI (Iran) thought that the Secretariat  should be able to work out a solution which would  satisfy Turkey, by guaranteeing that it would continue  to receive aid in the scientific field comparable to  that so far supplied by the istanbul Office.
(70) Mr. TUNCEL (Turkey) again urged that the  Office be maintained,
(71) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that, unless the  Commission was prepared to agree to the suppression  of the Office, together with the corresponding appro-  priation of $12,000, the provisional budget ceiling  BUDGET     COMMISSION  would be exceeded, The Commission would then have  to decide whether it was willing to go before the  General Conference with estimated expenditure  slightly higher than the provisional budget total ap-  proved by the Conference at its thirteenth plenary  meeting,
(72) Mr, KRUYT (Netherlands) stated that, at the end  of the chapter or Natural Sciences, he wished to  revert to the question of the subventions to ICSU,
(73) The CHAIRMAN took note of the remark of the  delegate of the Netherlands, which made him feel  even more strongly that the Commission ought to  make up its mind at once about the "provisional  ceiling",
(74) Mr. FORSYTH (New Zealand) would strongly  oppose any suggestion to exceed the approved budget  ceiling. Me had already agreed to a series of r:duc-  tions simpiy on the grounds that the ceiling could not  be exceeded; to change that decision would make it  necessary to reopen the discussion on every  programme item that had been cut.
(75) Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom)  seconded the remarks of the delegate of New Zealand,
(76) Mr. PHOTIADES (G1 eece) remarned that, since  the decisions regarding the budget ceiling were provi-  sionzl, the Conimission should be entitled to make  necessary adjustments forthwith, even if there were  a shght discrepancy between the resultant figure and  the maximum "provisionally" approved.
(77) Mr. FAWZI (Egypt) agreed with the delegates of  the United Kingdom and New Zealand that it would be  advisable to keep to the provisional ceiling already  adopted,
(78) Mr, HACQUAERT (Belgium) pointed out that  most delegations had by now received instructions  from their governments which compelled them to  consider the "provisional ceiling" as a final figure.
(79) Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS (United Kingdom)  interpreted "provisional" to refer to "instructions";  when the General Conference agreed upon a given  figure, it gave instructions to the Programme and  Budget Commission to work within that ceiling and  all the work which the Commission did would be  provisional until the General Conference, at its final  meeting, confirmed the Commission's decisions and  converted them into marching orders for the Executive  Board,
(80) Mr, ABEYWICKREMA (Ceylon) fully agreed with  the delegate of the United Kingdom and the Assistant  Director-General, and strongly opposed any further  discussion of the provisional budget figure,
(81) Mr. TUNCEL (Turkey) again urged that an effort  be made to find some way of retaining the sum of  $12,000 originally provided in the budget for the  Istanbul Office,
(82) The CHAIRMAN warned the Commission of the  - 492 -   PROGRAMME AND  danger which lay in rejecting some of the proposals  for reductions without making cuts elsewhere to offset  the resultant increase in expenditure,
(83) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  agreed with the delegate of the Umted Kingdom that it  was necessary, in practice, to keep within the provi-  sional budget total.
(84) He wished to make it clear that, if that opinion  were sharcd by the Commission as a whole, the only  way to retain the $12,000 for the Istanbul Office  would be to economize on other items.
(85) Mr. HACQUAERT (Belgium) said that, if the  duties discharged by the Istanbul Office could be  carried out by other means, there should be no major  objection to closing the Office.
(86) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) stated that Turkey could be given all the  necessary guarantees,
(87) In view of the foregoing discussion, Mr. TUNCEL  (Turkey) agreed to the suppression of the $12,000  which had been earmarked for the Istanbul Office.
(88) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General),  thanking the Turkish delegate, explained that the steps  that would be taken by the Secretariat to compensate  for the disappearance of the Istanbul Office, would  consist, at the scientific level, of affording Turkey  the services of the Headquarters staff of the Depart-  ment of Natural Sciences, while, in a general way,  the Turkish National Commission would receive the  assistance available under resolution 7.12, provided  that the Turkish Government requested it,
(89) Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS (United Kingdom)  expressed admiration for the generosity of mind  shown by the delegate of Turkey, who had proved that  it was possible to arrive at a truly international point  of view and act as a citizen of the world, The United  Kingdom delegation very much appreciated the attitude  of the delegate of Turkey.
(30) Paragraph (197) was adopted.  Paragraph (198)  ') Adopted.
(92) Returning to the question of the subvention to  ICSU Mr. KRUYT (Netherlands) recalled that it had  been agreed by a large majority that a sum of  $220,000 per annum was necessary for ICSU; the  only question had been how te find the funds. He  therefore moved that the Director of the Department  of Natural Sciences be asked to find the necessary  money within his Depariment's budget.
(93) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Chairman of the  Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget)  suggested that the delegate of the Netherlands be  asked to propose an equivalent reduction elsewhere to  offset the increase which he advocated.
(94) Replying to a question from tho CHAIRMAN,  BUDGET     COMMISSION 1v-32  Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) stated that, if the General Conference so  instructed him, the Director-General would certaini-  endeavour to find the sum necessary to offset the  proposed increase in the Natural Sciences budget.  That would, however, be no easy task.
(95) Mr. HACQUAERT (Belgium) observed that, 1f  the Secretariat managed to find the necessary funds,  it would inevitably be at the expense of other projects,  He wondered if there were any chance of making a  slight reduction in the figure of $20,000 per year,  corresponding to the proposed increase.
(96) Mr. KRUYT (Netherlands) pointed out that,  during the earlier discussion, the representative of  ICSU had said that, in order to carry out its Work  effectively, ICSU required an additional sum of  $:00,000 a year. The additional $20,000 proposed  thus represented only part of what was needed,
(97) Mr, DUERING (Sweden) observed that the Com-  mission woula be faced with the same problem when
1t came to the subvention to the International Council  for Philosophy and Humanistic Studies (CIPSH) in the  chapter on Cultural Activities. He thought that Unesco  should try gradually to achieve some sort of balance  in its subventions to the two organizations, both of  which were doing valuable work, He pointed out that  it was more difficult to obtain money for the humanities  than for the natural sciences, In view of the need to  keep within the budget ceiling, however, the Swedish  delegation would reluctantly agree to the reductions  proposed by the Advisory Committee, both for ICSU  and for CIPSH.
(98) The CHAIRMAN suggested that the Commission  might invite the General Conference to recommend  that the Director-General allocate to the Internatioral  Council of Scientific Unions, over and above the agreed  subvention, such amounts as he might be able to  economize during the period 1955-56, without detri-  ment to the implementation of the programme adopted.
(99) Dr. MUDALIAR (India) thought that document
8C/BUD/4 was so excellent and well balanced that  there was no need to continue to discuss it item by  item, He moved that 1t be adopted in toto and that the  Commission suggest that, if any savings were effected  in the course of the year, the Director-General, in  consultation with the Executive Bourd and taking ac-  count of comments made during the eighth session of  th> General Conference, be authorized to increase  certain subventions.
(100) The above proposal was seconded by the delega-  tions of Ceylon, the United Kingdom and Egypt and  adopted,
(101) The CHAIRMAN did not wish, for the time being,  to submit documents 8C/BUD/4 and 8C/BUD/5 as a  whole to the Commission for approval, as suggested  by the delegate of India He invited the Commission  to continue its examination of those documents chapter  by chapter instead of paragraph by paragraph, as  thitherto.
(102) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Chairman of the  - 493 -   IV-32  Advisor y Committee on Programme and Budget)  pointed out that there were no further proposals for  modifica'ion in document 8C/BUD/5.  CRHAPTER 3 — SOCIAL SCIENCES
(103) Adopted.  CHAPIER 4 — CULTURAL ACTIVITIES
(104) Adopted.  CHAPTER 3 — MASS COMMUNICATION
(105) Adopted.  CHAPTER 6 — EXCHANGE OF PERSONS
(106) Adopted.  CHAPTER 8 — DOCUMENTS AND PUBLICATIONS
(107) Adopted.  PART 011 — GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
(108) Adopted.  PART IV — COMMON SERVICE COSTS
(109) Adopted.
(110) Mr. SALIM (Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan)  proposed that, if savings were effected, the surplus  funds be used, not only to increase the subventions  to ICSU and CIPSH, but also to increase the appro-  priation for assistance to Palestinian refugees.
(111) This proposal was accepted.
(112) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  reminded the Commission that it was really for the  Executive Board to decide, during the financial year,  how to allocate any sums that had been economized,  Proposals such as that just made by the delegate of  the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan would in fact curtail  the freedom of the Executive Board and the Director-  General in that respect. It was therefore not advisable  to make many more proposals of that kind.
(113) Dr. HIGGINS (World Health Orgamization) asked  for the word "cancer" to be replaced by the expres-  sion "cellular growth" in document 8C/BUD/% and  that the title of section B, paragraph 101, of project
2.22 (document 8C/5 Natural Sciences Chapter) be  altered accordingly.
(114) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  assured the WHO representative that the English,  French and Spanish texts would be bronght into line,  and that the words "basic research on cancer" would  be replaced by "basic research on cellular growth".  PROGRAMME AND BUDGET     COMMISSION  Draft resolution 8C/DR/123: Measures to promote  the use of mcans of mass communication to increase  mutual confidence and understanding among the peopics  of the world, submitted by Canada, Colombia,  Czechoslovakia, Ecuador, France, India, Lebanon,  Mexico, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United  Kingdom and United States of America.
(115) Mr. STOLETOV (Union nf Soviet Socialist  Republics) drew attention to the fact that the press,  radio and film were among the most important  conquests of the mind of Man, for they influenced  everyday life and the morals of every nation, They  were capable ofrerdering inestimable services to the  cause of international understanding and peace, hut  they could also be used as a means of defeating that  same cause; no more powerful weapons existed for  the stimulation of hatred and the sowing of suspicion  and mistrust that led to war, The fundamental task of  the General Conference was to ensure that mass raedia  were used to promote Unesco's aims, as set forth in  Article | of the Constitution. During the eighth session  of the General Conference, delegates had heard  speeches by women of India and the Philippines, laying  emphasis on the importance of educating children for  wiernational understanding and peace, but all such  efforts would be set at nought if mass media were  allowed to implant distrust and hatred in the hearts of  the young. The General Cunierence would not have  fulfilled its obligations 1f it did not do everything inits  power to fight against all forms of propaganda designed  to incite men to aggression,
(116) The Soviet delegation had been very happy to  ncte the desire for cooperation and mutual understand-  ing shown by the delegations sponsoring the draft  resolution, and it very much hoped that the latter  would be unanimously approved by the Geaeral Confe-  rence. The unanimous adoption of the resolution wou}d  be warmly welcomed by the Soviet people, for, since
1951, all propaganda designed to constitute a threatto  peace had been forbidden in the Soviet Union. The  Soviet people, however were unaccustomed to fine and  empty phrases and they would look forward confidently  to the translation of the resolution into practical action  Mr. Stoletov therefore hoped that, if the draft resolu-  tiord were approved, all Member States of Unesco, the  Executive Board, the Director-General and the  Secretariat would do all in their power to see that it  was implemented, considering 1t as a fundamental  part of Unesco's programme,
(117) Sir Kenneth GRUBB (United Kingdom) expressed  his delegation's appreciation of the contribution to the  work of the General Conference made by the Union of  Soviet Socialist Republics and other friends, it had  been a pleasure to his delegation to work with them,  and it fully supported the draft resolution before the  Commission.
(118) Like the Soviet Union, the Umted Kingdom  deplored any tendency toinject hatred into discussions  or relations between the nations. Often, in inter-  national organizations, there had been draft resolutions  designed to prevent war propaganda, but they themselves  had sometimes been expressions of propaganda, based  on assumptions unacceptable to those who understood  democracy and freedom of information and ideas inthe  sense that his delegation and the people of the United  - 494 -   PROGRAMME AND  Kingdom understood them, Peace with justice and free-  dom was sought by al’, and mass media should be used  to promote that aim. Inthe United Kingdom, however, it  was not feltthatit was the function of governments to  control information or prevent propaganda, so thatthe  United Kingdom delegation would have nreferred not  to use the words 'undistorted information" but to base  the resolution On resulutions 290 JV) and 424 (V) of the  General Assembly of the Umited Nations, which called  on all nations to remove barriers to the free exchange  of information and ideas. Nevertheless, despite that  reservation, the United Kingdom delegation fully  supported the draft resolutior.
(119) In speaking of the removal of b rriers to the free  flow of information, the United Kingdom delegation  meant also information about ideas and not merely  columns of statistics or eulogies of achievement. It  wished to see Unesco encourage, asthe Organization  was indeed already doing, the full and free confrorta-  tion of the thoughts, values and ideas which, through-  out history, had determined the practical conduct of  States and man. It wanted Unesco's meetings to be a  true meeting of minds, intent onthe pursuit of justice,  freedom and peace, and it hoped that, as a result of  the lcad given by Unesco, such contacts of mind would  be not only between States, but between the peoples  whose welfare they were responsible for safeguarding  Above all, the United Kingdom delegation wished the  present exchange of views tn lead to practical action  demonstrating the sincerity with which the resolution  was put forward,
(120} The United Kingdom delegation associated  itself with the resolution and expressed appreciation  of the initiative taken by the delegate of the Union of  Soviet Socialist Reoublics.
(121) Mr. AFTALION (Argentina) warmly welcomed  and supported the draft resolution because it so  admirably expressed the point of view which had been  upheld by his country in the Economic and Social  Council on 9 April 1954,
(122) Mr. SCOTT (United Siates of America) said  that his delegation was glad to support the joint  resolution, which was constructive and affirmative in  both approach and content, The resolution, sponscred  by eleven delegations whose countries girdled the  world, appealed to all who were concerned with the  dignity of man to encourage in every country the use  of press, radio and films for the promotion of better  relations between the peoples, and invited all Member  States to promote the use of mass communication in  the interest of increasing mutual confidence and  understanding among the peoples of the world.  BUDGET     COMMISSION IV-32
(123) The resolution made it clear that, to achieve  those ends, 1t was essential to ensure freedom of  expression andto remove barriers tothe free flow of  information. That was a view to which the United  States had always subs.ribed and which was inserted  in their Constitution and Bill of Rights. When the  resolution became an expression of the views, not  merely of the eleven countries sponsoring it, but of  the entire Conference, it m:ght well mark a milestone  onthe roadtowards better international understandi..g.  However, much depended upon the degree to  which it was carried into effect, If it helped to  remove the obstacles and restrictions which had  hitherto kept the peoples in ignorance of each other,  their aspirations and achievements, the labours of  those who had evolved the resolution would not have  been in vain,
(124) Like the United Kingdom delegation, the delega-  tion of the Umited States had felt that the word  "undistorted" might lend itself to misinterpretation,  It conjured up the spectre of censorship, government  control and artificial restrictions imposed upon the  press, radio and films. That was a concept which the  American people had always firmly rejected and they  found repugnant any suggestion that straight news  reporting might be distorted information. People in  the United States of America did not believe that it  could be left to any government authority to decide  what news was likely to te conducive to improved  international relations; 1t was considered essential  that the people should have free access to all the news,  whether it originated at home or abroad. As we reai  in St. John's Gospel: "And ye shall know the truth,  and the truth shallmake youfree'. Universal applica-  tion of that principle would be a major factor in bringing  the peoples of the world closer together. lifting the  burden of ignorance from them and at the same time  giving them the tools to contribute to the achievement  of that peace towards which they all aspired,
(125) The UnitedStates delegationtherefore supported  the draft resolution warmly and sincerely, and hoped that  it would meet with the approval of the General Conference.
(126) Mr. SEDES (France) was most gratified at the  spirit of co-operation which had induced so many  countries to join together in submitting the draft  resolution set out in document 8C/DR/128, and he  briefly explained how important it was.
(127) As the hour was late, it was agreed, at the  CHAIRMAN's proposal to postpene further discussion  on document 8C/DR/123 until the afternoon meeting.  The meeting rose at 1.20 p.m.  - 495 -