CHAPTER IV IV-1  PROGRAMME AND BUDGET COMMISSION  FIRST MEETING
17 November 1954 at 5.30 p.m.  Chairman: Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland)  ITEM 8.1 OF THE REVISED AGENDA: ELECTION OF THE THREE  VICE-CHAIRMEN AND THE KAPPORTEUR
(1) The CHAIRMAN expressed his gratitude for the  honour to his country which his appointment as  Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission  implied.
(2) The first meeting, which would be a purely  business one, would be devoted to arranging the  Commission's work. The first item on the agenda  was the election of three Vice-Chairmen and a  Rapporteur, The Chairman did not intend to impose  a list of nominees for the election; the suggestions  he was about to put forward had been collected from  delegations before the meeting and the Commission  was perfectly free to make any changes it wished.
(3) The three countries which had been suggested  for the offices of Vi:e-Chairmen - the Byelorussian  Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Burma and  Uruguay - seemed satisfactory from the point of  view of geographical representation.
(4) Mr. SECCO ELLAURI (Uruguay) expressed the  gratitude of his delegation for the honour of the in-  vitation to act as Vice-Cheirman but said that  Uruguay had already received the still greater  honour of having the Head of its delegation elected  President of the General Conference; he therefore  declined the new honour offered to his country and  proposed Ecuador in its place,
(5) The CHAIRMAN found the Uruguayan delegate's  suggestion acceptable and proposed that the delegates  of the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Burma  and Ecuador be appointed Vice-Chairmen of the  Commission by acclamation,
(6) Unanimously approved.
(7) The CHAIRMAN said that it had been proposed  that the office of Rapporteur be offered to a member  of the delegation of the United States of America.
(8) Mr, ARSENAULT (Canada) proposed that Mr.  Henry Hope be appointed from that delegation,
(9) Unanimously approved,
(10) Mr. HOPE (United States of America), after  expressing his thanks, mentioned that he had no  experience of such duties but would perform them to  the best of his ability.  ORGANIZATION OF TBE COMMISSION'S WORK AND ESTABLIRR-  MENT OF WORKING PARTIES
(11) The CHAIRMAN explained ‘hat, as the work of  the Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget  and the plenary meetings had taken longer than had  been expected, the Commission could hold only 34  meetings instead of 35.  {12) He proposed that the meetings should be  apportioned as follows: 4 for the discussion of the  reports of the Advisory Committee on Programme  and budget, the Chairman of the Executive Board,  and the Director-General; 2 for the discussion of  the provisional budget ceiling and the provisional  figure for Member States! contributions; 23 for  consideration of the programme; 1 for discussion  of Parts I, III and IV of the Budget; and 2 for the  discussion of the future programme. The Com-  mission would then devote a maeting to the exam-  ination of its report and would hold the last meeting  in reserve for any unforeseen business, Should  there be too many unforeseen items, meetings might  have to be held at night.
(13) The Commission also had lo set up working  parties, The Chairman emphasizec that there  should not be too many of these, as the delegations  were smaller than at the previous sessiun of the  General Conference and the practicai problems of  organizing meetings might make the work difficult,  The accommodation and technical staff available  would not allow for more than 20 meetings, which  would have to be apportioned between the working  parties of the Programme and Budget Commission  and those of the Administrative Commission. It  therefore seemed to the Chairman advisable to set  up no more than three working parties, the first on  the organization and structure of the Department of  Mass Communication, the second on the  - 269 -   IV-1 PROGRAMME AND  decentralization of Unesco's activities, and the  third on draft international conventions relating to  cultural activities and mass communication,
(14) Mr. SUZUKI (Japan) proposed that a working  party be set up to study the question of Unesco book  coupons and gift coupons.
(15) The CHAIRMAN said that it would probably be  better to wait until the subject came up for general  discussion before deciding whether auch a working  party was necessary, and Mr. SUZUKI (Japan)  agreed, :
(16) Mr, SAMBURSKY (Israel) hoped that a working  party would be set up to study problems connected  with atomic energy, marine biology and cancer  research,
(17) Mr. LAUGIER (France) considered that such  important and far-reaching questions of such world-  wide interest were beyond the competence of a  working party and should be seriously discussed by  the full Commission.
(18) Baron van der STRATEN WAILLET (Belgium)  thought that the protection of nature should be  included among those major problems.
(18) Mr, BUSTAMENTE (El Sslvador) agreed with  the views of the French delegaie, There were other  subjecta more appropriate for working parties,  Those mentioned by the delegate of Israel were  wider and of more general interest.
(2M) Mr, SUZUKI (Japan) mentioned that his  delegation had suggested two of the three projects  for which the Israeli delegate proposed a working  party and the Japanese delcgation therefore had  great sympathy with the proposal, But the French  delegate's proposal seemed to him a wise one,  and he wished to second it.
(21) The French proposal was also supported by  the delegates of Lebanon and the United Kingdom,
(22) Mr, VERONESE (italy) thought that the  Cominission should first set up the three working  parties for the purposes indicated by the Chairman;  it would always be at liberty to add others if the  need for them became apparent during the  discussions,
(23) Mr. SAMBURSKY (Israel) withdrew his  proposal,
(24) The CHAIRMAN advocated that the working  parties be limited to twelve or fifieen members,  to ensure maximum efficiency.
(25) He proposed that the meeting proceed to set  up the first working party, to deal with the  organization and structure of the Department of  Mass Communication, The names of the following  countries had been suggested: Belgium, Egypt,  France, German Federal Republic, Iran, Italy,  Japan, Mexico, Poland, Switzerland, Thailand, United  Kingdom, United States of America, Uruguay, USSR.    BUDGET COMMISSION
(26) He added that, Li: addition to the general  problems which were to be submitted to it, the  working party would have to consider two specific  questions: (1) Was the press clipping service in  its right place in the Deparment of Mass Com-  munication? (2) Was the Unesco Courier indispen-  sable or could it be replacec ?
(37) Mr. AWAD (Egypt) mentioned that his country  was particularly interested ir the question of  decentralizing Unesco's activities, and would like  one of its representatives to tike part in the  discussions of the working parvy dealing with that  problem. The Egyrtian delegaiion was quite  prepared to nominate one of its members to serve  on the working party to study the organization and  structure of the Department of Mass Communication  also, but if it were to have only one representative  on the working parties, the delegation would prefer  to withdraw its candidature for the iatter.
(28) The CHAIRMAN agreed to bear Egypt in mind  when the working party on the decentralization of  Upesco's activities was set up, and proposed that  the Committee approve the suggested membership  of the first working party, without Egypt.
(29) Approved.
(30) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that each of the  working parties would appoint its own officers,
(31) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) was sorry that Egypt  had withdrawn from the first working party, thus  depriving the Arabic-speaking countries of a  representative on such an important group. He  proposed that the Egyptian delegate nominate  another country to take his place,
(32) Mr. AWAD (Egypt) suggested that a repre-  sentative of Lebanon be made a member of the  first working party.
(33) His suggestion was seconded by the delegate  of France,
(34) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) accepted the proposal  in principle, but said that he could not give a  definite commitment until he was sure that a  member of his delegation would be available,
(35) The CHAIRMAN noted his acceptance in prin-  ciple, and requested the Commission to pass on to  the establishment. of the second working party, which  was to study the question of the decentralization of  Unesco's activities. Only one nomination, that of  Egypt, had been made for that working party, and  the Chairmar asked delegates to suggest others,
(36) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon), referring to certain  work carried out during the past two years in  connexion with decentralization, proposed Italy  and, in particular, Professor Veronese.
(37) The proposal was seconded by the delegate  of France,  - 270 -   PROGRAMME AND
(38) Mr, VERONESE (Italy) recalled that his  country was already a member of the first working  party, but, so long as he was not thereby debarred,  he would be willing to serve on the second party.
(39) The CHAIRMAN explained that what mattered  was to appoint representatives of the countries  interested in the problems to be discussed.
(40) Mr. ESTELRICH (Spain) said that his delega-  tion was particularly interested in the working  party on decentralization,
(41) The CHAIRMAN requested the representatives  of all countries interested in the problem to offer  their services and noted the names of India, Turkey,  Union of Burma, Liberia, Uruguay, Pakistan,  El Salvador, Indonesia, United Kingdom, Chile,  German Federal Republic, Israel, Brazil and  Australia.
(42) Mr. ANGELL (United States of America)  proposed that the procedure which had been adopted  with regard to nominations for the first working  party should be adopted for nominations for the  other two parties. It would be preferable to be  able to consider nominations overnight with a view  to selecting representatives from countries  particularly interested in the work of those two  working parties and to obtaining a suitable geogra-  phical distribution of members.
(43) Mr, CLEGG (United Kingdom) and Mr. KABIR  (India) supported the United States proposal.
(44) The CHAIRMAN agreed that it would be best  to adopt that procedure; he asked delegates to  submit lists of approved nominatiors for the two  working parties still to be set up to the next day's  meeting,
(45) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Erazil) asked  that, when the final choice was made, preference  should be given to the countries which, either  because of their geographical situation or  because of special circumstances, were remote  from the central administration,
(46) The CHAIRMAN took note of the suggestion.  He requested countries interested in the draft  international conventions relating to cultural  activities and mass communication to put forward  their names for membership of the third working  party.
(47) The following countries entered their names:  France, Spain, the United States of America,  United Kingdom, India, Netherlands, Argentina,  Philippines, Italy, Poland, Liberia.  BUDGET COMMISSION     - 271 -
(48) At the suggestion of Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon),  Mr, WEILENMANN (Switzerland) agreed to add his  country to the list.
(49) The CHAIR MAN asked the Commission to  appoint the members of the drafting committee  which would be responsible for preparing the report;  the committee should consist of three members, one  English-speaking, one French-speaking and one  Spanish-speaking.
(30) Mr MARTINEZ (Ecuador) proposed that Spain  be appointed to the drafting committee for the  Spanish version of the text, He took the opportunity  of thanking the delegate of Uruguay for his proposal  that Ecuador be appointed to one of the offices of  Vice-Chairman, and all the members of the Ccm-  mission for adopting that proposal.
(51) The proposal of the delegate of Ecuador was  approved,
(53) Baron van au: STRATEN WAILLET (Belgium)  proposed that the delegate of France be appointed  fcr the French text, :
(53) Approved.
(54) Mr. JOSEPH (British Caribbean Group)  proposed that the English-speaking representative  should be the delegate of the United Kingdom.
(55) Approved,
(56) Mr. HAYEK (Czechoslovakia) asked that the  membership of the drafting committee should include  a Russian-speaking representative, and proposed  the delegate of the USSR,
(57) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Com-  mission) stated that, although there was no  objection to having a Russian-speaking delegate  on the drafting committee, very few members  of the Secretariat were able to work in that  language.
(58) Mr, LAUGIER (France) seconded the  Czechoslovak delegate's proposal,
(58) The proposal was approved,  The meeting rose at 6,30 p.m,