26 November 1954 at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman: Mr. HUZAYIN (Egypt)  DRAFT AMENDMENT TO THE CONSTITUTION, AND GTHER  PROVISIONS, CONCERNING THE WITRDRAWAL OF MEMBER  STATES (documents 8C/ADM/6 and Add.1, 2, 3, 4)
(1) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) recalled that the  General Conference at its second extraordinary  session, in July 1953, had decided that Unesco  should follow the example of other Specialized  Agencies by inserting in its Constitution a clause  concerning possible withdrawals by Member States.
(2) In accordance with a General Conference  resolution and a recommendation by the Executive  Board, the Director-General had therefore submitted  to the Conference, within the regulation time-limit,  two draft amendments to Article II of the  Constitution, The first of those resolutions envisaged  unilateral withdrawal, i.e. that the Member State  concerned should simply give notice of its withdrawal,  The second resolution stipulated that a withdrawal  must be accepted by a two-thirds majority of the  General Conference.
(3) As the Administrative Commission had decided  that the first draft alone should serve as a basis for  a Constitutional amendment, the second did not need  to be examined, nor did the Cambodian delegation's  proposal to amend it.
(4) Mr. Saba read out the first draft, which appeared  on page 2 of document 8C/ADM/6, and said that it  had given rise to three proposed amendments,  submitted by the Belgian, United States and Australian  delegations respectively. The third of these proposals  had been withdrawn.
(5) The Belgian delegation's draft amendment  provided for the withdrawal of a Member State on 31  December of the year following that during which  notice was given. The United States delegation’s  amendment stipulated that the financial obligations of  the State should continue throughout the financial  period in which its withdrawal took effect.
(6) Mr. Saba said that those two drafts were ir  keeping with the spirit of the draft amendment to the  Constitution, He added that, in conformity with the  Financial Regulations and the Constitution, Member  States were required to pay the coutributions due for  the whole financial period, and he asked the  Committee to examine the Belgian and United States  drafts in turn.
(7) Mr. WEST (United Kingdom) supported the first  draft of Article II, 6 as it appeared on page 2 of  document 8C/ADM/6, and, subject to an explanation  of the Belgian amendment, was wiliing to acce, it  with the exception of one small point, to which :._  would refer later.
(8) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) said that, in submitting  its draft resolution, the Belgian delegation had aimed  at simplifying procedure, As Unesco had adopted the  calendar year for the division of its work, it seemed  to him that it would be easier if the obligations of a  Member State which had given notice of withdrawal  were to cease with the end of that year.
(9) The Belgian delegate thought that the ideal  solution would doubtless be to take the end of the  budgetary period as the end of a State's obligations  but, since that period might extend in extreme cases  to four years, it seemed unlike'y that such a solution  could be adopted.
(10) Mr. WEST (United Kingdom) believed that his  interpretation coincided with the explanation given by  the delegate of Belgium, It appeared also to coincide  with the substance of the United States amendment.
(11) He asked how long the period of financial  obligation would last. The question of financial  obligation should be considered at the same time as  the question of notice and one phrase should be found  to cover both questions.
(12) Mr. SIMSARIAN (United States of America)  thought that the delegate of the United Kingdom was  correct in suggesting that the two questions should be  considered together. The United States delegation  supported the Belgian proposal. It felt that the two  questions should be synchronized and that the financial  obligation cover the same period as the notice, while  the State concerned would still be effectively a Member  of the Organization. Any withdrawal from the  Organization should not affect financial obligations to  the Organization up to the effective date of that  withdrawal.
(13) The Legal Committee agreed to accept the  principle of the Belgian amendment, and Article IL. 6  would be amended accordingly.  PROPOSAL ON THE WITHDRAWAL OF MEMBER STATES  SUBMITTED BY THE DELEGATION OF THE UNITED STATES  OF AMERICA (document 8C/ADM/6 Add.2)
(15) Mr. SIMSARIAN (United States of America)  formally withdrew the United States proposed  amendment, but suggested a slight change in the text  of Article Il. 6 as it stood in document 8C/ADM/6. He  proposed that the last sentence of the first paragraph  of that Article should read "no such withdrawal shall  affect the financial obligations owed to the Organization  on the date the withdrawal takes effect".  - 892 -   LEGAL COMMITTEE via-5
(185) Mr. WEST (United Kingdom) pointed out that the  word "State" after the words "Associate Member"  should be deleted.
(17) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) read out the version  of Article II, 6 resulting from the proposed  amendments,  "Any Member State or Associate Member State of  the United Nations Educational, Scientific and  Cultural Organization may withdraw from the  Organization by notice addressed to the Director-  General. Such notice shall take effect on 31  December in the year following that during which the  notice was given, No such withdrawal shall affect  the financial obligations owed by the State concerned  towards the Organization at the date when the notice  takes effect. Notice of withdrawal by an Associate  Member State shall be given on its behalf by the  Member State or other authority having responsibility  for its international relations,"
(18) Approved.  DRAFT AMENDMENT TO THE RULES OF PROCEDURE OF  THE GENERAL CONFERENCE (document 8C/ADM/3 (III)
(18) Mr, SABA (Legal Adviser) said that at its sixth  session the General Conference had adopted a  resolution granting to Associate Members the same  rights as to full Member States, except for voting  rights, but that it seemed necessary to bring the  Rules of Procedure into line with that decision, and  that was the purpose of document 8C/ADM/3 (III).
(20) The CHAIRMAN asked the Committee if it  approved the procedure suggested by Mr. Saba.
(21) Mr. WEST (United Kingdom) suggested that it  might save time if only amendments to which there  was an objection were discussed. It would of  course be necessary to discuss any amendments to  which further amendments had been submitted.
(22) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) agreed with the  United Kingdom delegate in thinking that, once the  principle had been admitted, the addition of the  words "and Associate Member States" after  "Members" need not be examined in detail rule by  rule. But, with regard to Rule 24, he thought it  advisable to discuss the proposed amendment; some  members might doubt the need for it, as it would  give an Associate Member the right to oppose the  admission of a representative to the Conference.
(23) Mr. WEST (United Kingdom) considered that,  since the Rule had been altered to include Associate  Members, if the word "Member" appeared on its  own, the intention was not to include "Associate  Members".
(24) Mr. CABOUAT (France) wished to know whether  the Conference, when determining the status of  Associate Members, had intended to give them the  same powers as full Members, except for voting  rights.
(25) Reverting to the text of resolution 41. 21, adopted  by the General Conference at its sixth session, Mr.  SABA (Legal Adviser) said that in principle an  Associate Member had the right to submit suggestions  and to oppose certain motions, which implied that it  could express disapproval of the admission of a  representative; only voting rights were denied.
(26) Mr. Saba explained that he had merely wishedto  draw the Committee's attention to Rule 24, but that  he would raise no objection if it were decided to  include the proposed amendment.
(27) Mr. BAUGNIET (Rapporteur) thought it  preferable to adopt that amendment, for in his  opinion it was advisable to state exactly what would  happen if an Associate Member questioned the  qualifications of a representative; otherwise it might  be supposed that Rule 24 would not apply when the  opposition came from an Associate Member, and that  the delegate whose qualifications were questioned  could not take his seat at the Conference, even  provisionally.
(28) Mr. CABOUAT (France) agreed with the Belgian  delegate's point of view.
(29) All the amendments providing for the addition  of the words "and Associate Member(s)" after  "Member(s)" were approved.  Rule 30
(30) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) said that it had  appeared necessary to add a new paragraph ‘o Rule
30 in order to reserve to representatives of Member  States alone the posts of president and vice-president  of the General Conference together with those of  chairmen, vice-chairmen and rapporteurs of  commissions and committees.
(31) Mr. BAUGNIET (Rapporteur) suggested that in  this new paragraph the word "other" before  "subsidiary bodies" should be deleted.
(32) With this modification the amendment to Rule
30 was approved.  Rule 47
(33) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) said that, as Rule
30 had been amended, it also seemed necessary to  amend Rule 47 dealing with the election of various  officers on the General Committee of the Conference.  However, in place of the amendment suggested in  Annex I of document 8C/ADM/3 (III) and that  submitted by the delegation of the Union of South  Africa, he would prefer another amendment,  consisting in che addition to Rule 47 of a new  paragraph as follows: "The provisions of Rule 30,  paragraph 4, shall apply to the present Rule."
(34) The Legal Committee adopted this proposal.
(35) Mr. WEST (United Kingdom) asked whether the  Committee had intended to agree to the amendment  to Rule 94 proposed by the South African delegation,  to which Mr, SABA (Legal Adviser) replied that the  - 893 -   VII-5 LEGAL COMMITTEE  amendment proposed by the South African delegation  was divided into two parts. The Committee had dealt  only with the part referring to Rule 47.  Rule 68
(36) Mr. BAUGNIET (Rapporteur) thought the  amendment was unnecessary since paragraph 1 had  not been amended.
(37) Mr. WEST (United Kingdom) drew attention to  the fact that the United Kingdom proposal, which  would have had the same effect, had been missed vut  of the list of amendments submitted. He agreed that  the proposed amendment to Rule 69 was unnecessary.
(38) The United Kingdom delegation had proposed a  further amendment to paragraph 2 of Rule 69. It  was a question of drafting, involving the use of the  English word "constitute". In English the word  "constitute" would refer to all persons taking part in  the Conference, when what was actually meant was  all full members. Associate Members could not be  counted towards a quorum. He proposed that the  words "are members of’ should be substituted for  the word "constitute" in paragraph 2.
(40) Mr. WEST (United Kingdom) said that the  United Kingdom proposal contained in document
8C/ADM/3 (Ill) Add. 2 was to delete the amendment  proposed to Rule 78 (document 8C/ADM/3 (III)Annex
(41) That proposal had been made by the United  Kingdom delegation bacause it felt that, if there were  no mention of Member States in a Rule, it was not  necessary to make specific reference to Associate  Members. If Associate Members were not  specifically excluded, the Rule would apply to them  as well as to Member States.
(42) The proposed amendment to Rule 7 was rejected.  DRAFT SUBMITTED BY THE UNITED KINGDOM TO AMEND  CERTAIN AMENDMENTS TO THE RULES OF PROCEDURE  PROPOSED IN DOCUMENT 8C/ADM/3 (HI) ANNEX 1  (document 8C/ADM/3 (III) Add.2)  Rules 3(1) and 5(1)
(43) At the request of Mr. CABOUAT (France), the  Committee again examined the amendments proposed  to Rules 3(1) and 5(1).
(44) Mr. BAUGNIET (Rapporteur) said that the  effect of the ainendments proposed by the British  delegation would be to deny Associate Members the  right to invite the General Conference to hold a  session on their territory, or to be included among  States allowed to request that an extraordinary  session he convened.
(45) The Delgian delegate thought that in the first  case, which was not connected with voting rights, it  was difficult to give 2 negative reply; on the other    hand, the convening of an extraordinary session of the  Conference was closely connected with voting rights,  and Mr, Baugniet thought that the Associate Members  should not be allowed to make such : request.
(46) Mr. SIMSARIAN (United States of An-erica)  supported the mention of the Associate Members.
(47) Mr. WEST (United Kingdom) remarked that the  United Kingdom delegation was not raising policy  objections to an Associate Member's being given the  right to invite the General Conference to hold a  session in its territory, but had been obliged to  consider whether the proposed amendment to  paragraph 1 of Rule 3 was consistent with the terms  of the resolution adopted by the General Conference  which governed the rights of Associate Members,  That resolution referred clearly to the conduct of  business of meetings, but did not contain any clear  provision on the prior question of where meetings  should be held. Certain practical difficulties might  arise, e.g. of a legal character, concerning such  matters as the guarantee of privileges and immunities  to representatives of Member States if meetings  should be held in territories not responsible for their  own international relations. The United Kingdom  delegation had therefore proposed the deletion of the  amendment to paragraph 1 of Rule 2, but it had no  strong feelings on the question.
(48) In answer to the delegate of France, who had  asked his opinion on the principle that Associate  Members should only be permitted to extend such an  invitation through the power responsible for their  international relations, Mr. West said that he would  have preferred notice of such a question, but it  occurred to him that some might argue that, if  Associate Members were given the right to issue  invitations, they were entitled to issue them direct.  The United kingdom would not agree with such a view,  but in any case thought that the right to issue invitations  was clearly meant under the Constitution to apply only  to Member States, and, if the United Kingdom amend-  ment were accepted, the point referred to by the  delegate of France would not arise. If, on the other  hand, the United Kingdom's interpretation of the  Constitution were not accepted, it would be necessary  to amend Rule 4 consequentially to refer to Associate  Members, The United Kingdom delegation proposed  however that Rule 4 should remain as it was and that  no reference should be made to Associate Members  in paragraph 1 of Rule 3.
(49) The United Kingdom proposal was adopted, the  delegate of Egypt opposing it.
(50) Mr. WEST (United Kingdom) said that a  different point arose in paragraph 1 of Rule 5, if the  words Associate Members were added. If Associate  Members were to : - :llowed to form part of the  one-third of Members requesting an extraordinary  session of the General Conference, it would amount  to giving them the right to vote. He supported the  principle that Associate Members should be allowed  to express opinions on any matter, but doubted  whether it had been the intention to give them what  was in the case in point tantamount to the right to  vote. He did not feel strongly on that point,  - 894 -   LEGAL  however, and, if necessary, was prepared to  withdraw his proposal,
(51) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) agreed with the  United Kingdom delegate and wished to add a legal  argument to the reasons the iatter had put forward.  If it were decided that the Conference should put  Assoclate Members on an equal footing with Member  States wiih regard to convening extraordinary  sessions, not only would Rule 5 of the Rules of  Procedure have to be amended, but the Constitution  as well. He regretted that that point had not been  borne in mind when the draft amendment was  presented, and advocated that Rul. 5 be retained in  its existing form, adding that the General Conference  could at its next session consider amending the  Constitution on that point.
(52) The United Kingdom delegate's proposal was  approved.  Rule 28
(53) In reply to Mr. SIMSARIAN (United States of  America), who asked whether the Committee had  examined the draft amendment submitted by the  United Kingdom delegation, proposing that the words  "and Associate Members" be added after "Member  States" in paragraph 1 of Rule 28, Mr. SABA (Legal  Adviser) said that in practice the Credentials  Committee examined the credentials of delegations  from Associate Member States as well as those  from Member States. However, he realized that it  would be wise to state that specifically.
(54) The draft amendment concerning Rule 28 was  approved,  Rule 94
(55) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) recalled the terms  of Rule 92, which dealt with the acceptance by any  State, not a member of the United Nations but  wishing to become a Member of Unesco, of all the  obligations of membership,
(56) He said that their acceptance was necessary a  fortiori on the part of an Associate Member, which  did not have to ratify or sign the Constitution, and  that was the reason for the proposed amendment; it  seemed to him logical and necessary.
(57) Mr. WEST (United Kingdom) pointed out that,  in view of the decision of the Committee concerning  Article VI of the Constitution, which had been taken  at the morning meeting (document 8C/JUR/SR. 4),  the numbering of the new Rule 84 A was wrong.
(58) He did not think that the new Rule should be  part of Rule 94 and it was not quite the same as  Rule 93. He suggested that the new Rule 94 À  should be numbered Rule 93 and that all subsequent  Rules be renumbered.
(59) Mr, SABA (Legal Adviser) thought that in that  case it would be better to add a paragraph to Rule
92, which would consist of two sections:  (a) the existing paragraph which dealt with States  not members of the United Nations;    COMMITTEE VIOI-5  {b) the new paragraph, dealing with Associate  Members.
(60) Mr. WEST (United Kingdom) accepted Mr.  Saba's proposal.
(61) Mr. SIMSARIAN (United States of America) did  not think that it would be wise to use the letters (a)  and (b) for numbering the paragraphs, as the only  paragraphs so numbered in the Rules of Procedure  were concerned with transitional measures. He  thought that the paragraphs should be numbered in  conformity with existing practice, namely, (1) and
(62) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) suggested that Rule
92 be entitled "Requests for admission’ and that  paragraphs 1 and 2 be headed "States not members  of the United Nations" and "Associate Members"  respectively.
(63) Mr. BAUGNIET (Rapporteur) pointed out that,  if Rule 92 were entitled "Requests for admission",  confusion might arise with regard to Rule 93  "Consideration of applicaticns”. In his opinion the  new paragraph might be 92 a, which would show that  it was an additional clause, independent of what  followed.
(64) Mr. WEST (United Kingdom) pointed out that  Rule 92, and the new paragraph which it had been  proposed to add to Rule 92, were on the same subject;  he proposed that the heading to Rule 92 should te  altered in such a way as to include both cases. It  might read: "States not members of the United Nations  and Associate Members."
(65) Mr. SIMSARIAN (United States of America)  supported the United Kingdom proposal.
(66) Mr. BAUGNIET (Rapporteur) saw no possibility  of finding a common title for two such different  clauses. He therefore recommended a paragraph
92.1 with the heading already appearing in the Rules  of Procedure, and a paragraph 22, 2 with the heading  suggested in the draft amendment.
(67) Mr. CABOUAT (France) observed that, in order  to standardize the wording of the document, it would  be advisable to put "State" in the plural in the heading  of Rule 92 in the French text.
(68) Mr. SIMSARIAN (United States of America) said  that, if the Legal Com nittee felt that the two matters  were separate, it would be necec_ary to put them in  separate Rules. Subsequent Rules would then have to  be renumbered.
(69) The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the Rapporteur's  proposal to number the new Rule 92 bis.
(70) The proposal was rejected.
(71) He then put to the vote the proposal that the new  paragraph should be added to Rule 92, that the two  paragraphs should be numbered (1) and (2) and that  they should appear under one comprehensive heading.  - 895 -   VIU-5
(72) Approved.
(73) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) hopedthat the Committee  would decide to add the words "and Associate Members"  after "Member States’ in Rules 103, 104 and 105 andan  all draft amendments seni to Associated States.
(74) Approved.  AMENDMENTS TO RULE 40 OF THE RULES OF PROCEDURE  (document 8C/ADM/3 (III) Annex II)
(75) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) said that the object  of the draftamendment to Rule 40 was to standardize  and legalize the procedure followed at the last  extraordinary session of the General Conference,  when electing an acting President in place of the  Conference President, who haa been suddenly  recalled by his government,
(76) Approved.  AMENDMENT TO RULE 30 OF THE RULES OF PROCEDURE  (document 8C/ADM/3 (MI) Annex IL! and document 8C/DR/ 65)
(77) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) said that the Chilean  delegation had submitted an amendment to the draft  amendment contained in Annex III of document
8C/ADM/3 (I).
(78) In reply to a question by the French delegate  Mr. Saba said he did not know the reason for the  Chilean delegation’s draft amendment,
(79) Mr. BAUGNIET (Rapporteur) thought Le could  explain the intentions of the Chilean delegation be  reminding the meeting that the way in which the  Nominations Committee had presented its proposals  for the different offices on the General Committee of  the present Conference had surprised many delegates,  and it had seemed necessary to protest against such a  procedure.
(80) Mr. WEST (United Kingdom) thought that the  Nominations Committee had accepted the list of  candidates out of convenience. Under the provisions  of paragraph 1 af Rule 30, it had the right itself to  put forward a list of nominations and was not  compelled to adopt the list submitted to it by the  Executive Board. The present text of Rule 30 was  legally correct.
(81) The CHAIRMAN remarked that he was not a  lawyer, but thought that the Executive Board had no  supreme powers during a session of the General  Conference and that the Nominations Committee  should take the initiative in preparing lists of  nominations, In practice, however, the position  was different. Disappointment had been caused in  certain cases through the adoption of the Ust  submitted by the Executive Board.
(82) He supported the Chilean amendment in  principle, but thought its preamble too strong.
(83) Mr. PAGE (Canada) asked if it would be  possible to hear a statement from the delegate of  Chile, who happened to be present, on the basic  reason underlying that delegation's proposal,     LEGAL COMMITTEE
(84) Mr. VASSALLO ROJAS (Chile), who had  drafted document 8C/DR/65, said that it was the  result of the experience of the Chilean delegation  atthe present General Conference. Although Rule 30  seemedto indicate that the Nominations Committee  determinedthe list of candidates, that in fact had not  happened at the present session. There was some indi-  cation that, inaccordance with tradition, tecomme 1datiors  made by the Executive Board had to be accepted. The  Chilean delegation submitted its draft resolution to  avoid the possibility of incidents of that kind.
(85) Mr. WEST (United Kingdom) thankedthe de'ega.s  of Chile for his statement, It was purely a question  of convenience that had made the Nominations  Commit.ee adopt the list submitted by the Executive  Board.
(86) The proposal amounted to a substantive  amendment and, as the Legal Committee was not  competent to discuss such amendments, he proposed  that it should refer it back to the Administrative  Commission and ask for instructions.
(87) This proposal was supporied by the delegate of  France.
(88) Mr. SIMSARIAN (United Sta. s of America)  supported the principle of the Chilean ame iment. He  did not consider that there was any need for the  Executive Board to submit a list of nominations.
(83) He proposed that the Leg. . Committee should  report to the Administrative Commission that no legal  problem was involved, so that the Auministrativ.  Commission could take : ecision without having to  refer it back to the ‘ ral Committee.
(90) Mr. BAUGNIET (R.pporteur) agreed < th the  United Kingdom delegate th regardtothe comnete..ce  of the Committee.
(91) He observ: ‘that, under Rule 30 as it a,ypear ‘d  inthe Rules of Procedure, the Nominations Committee  was completely free io submit to the Conference  different proposalsfrom' se made bythe Executive  Board.
(92) He suggested that the purpose of the Chi'ean  amendment could equally well be ac riev d by a pure,  formal change in the present text of paragraph 1,  which would read as follows: "On information received  from the Exec .ive Board, the ‘’ominations Committee  shall determine and submit.,..."
(83) The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the proposal  made by the United Kinguom delegate and supported  by the French and Japanese delegates,
(94) Approved by 5 votes to 3.  DRAFT AMENDMENTS TU RULES 75, 26 AND 73  (document 8C/ADM/3 (IID Apnex IV)
(95) Approved.  DRAF AMENDMENT TO RULE 106 (document 8C/ADM/ (1))
(96) Approved.  The mec.ing rose at 6 p.m.