(68) Mr, MENDOZA (Guatemala) asked, in accord-  ance with Rule 85 of the Rules of Procedure, for a  separate vote on the last sentence of paragraph 3 of  the proposal, His delegation was opposed to any  form of re-election,
(69) The CHAIRMAN observed that it had been  proposed to take two votes, the first on paragraph
3 without the last sentence, and the second on  paragraph 3 with the last sentence.
(70) Mr. BARRIOS (Nicaragua) asked for a five  minutes’ suspension of the meeting, to enable  delegates to exchange their views, as they nad  successfully done at an earlier stage.
(71) Mr. FRAGA IRIBARNE (Spain) asked for an  explanation of the Chairman's views on the result  of a separate vote, as asked for by the Guatemalan  delegate. If the last sentence of paragraph 3 were  rejected, while the rest of the paragraph were  adopted, the vote would not make sense. Would  paragraph 3, in that case, remain in force? If not,  the result would be extremely confusing.
(72) The CHAIRMAN explained that the position was  that, if the sentence were eliminated, it would leave  the matter open; it might be possible, ot course, to  deal with it in the Regulations instead of having a  provision in the Constitut/on,
(73) Mr. BERNAL JIMENEZ (Colombia) understood  the anxiety shown by some of the delegates, in  particular the delegate of Nicaragua, with regard to  the lost sentence of the paragraph under discussion.  Nevertl.eless the fear that the new system might not  permit the election of Member States in rotation, or  that such rotation might not take place with sufficient  speed, was unfounded. There was another aspect of    COMMISSION  the question to be taken into account - the need for  continuity within the Executive Board, so that the  more important States might go on being represented  and continue to promote the progress of the  Organization,
(74) Moreover, the election of members to the  Board generally resulted from agreements between  countries of a given cultural and geographical area,  e.g. Latin America. Such private and internal  agreements would facilitate the drawing up, every  two years, of lists of candidates for the Board,
(75) The Colombian delegate concluded that the  paragraph should be approved in its entirety,
(76) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) said that, under  general principles of lav, anything not expressly  forbidcen remained permissible and that therefore,  in the absence of any rule concerning the re-election  of former members, those members should normally  be re-eligible.
(77) Mr, SANDOVAL VALLARTA (Mexico),  referring to Article V.C, 13 (d) of the Constitution,  asked how that provision would be affected if the last  sentence of paragraph 3 were adopted. Would it  continue in force?
(78) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) explained that the  “transitional provisions" which were the subject of  section C were intended to replace those contained  in the existing text of Article V.
(79) Sir Kenneth GRUBB (United Kingdom), seconded  by several delegations, moved the adjournment of  the me2ting,
(80) Adopted.  The meeting rose at 7,5 p,m.  EIGHTH MEETING
19 November 1954 at 10 a.m.  Chairman : Mr. BEEBY (New Zealand)  ITEM 9.3.1 OF REVISED AGENDA: DRAFT AMENDHENTS TO  ARTICLE V OF THE CONSTITUTION (§ TRUCTURE OF THE  EXECUTIVE BOARD) (documents 8C/ADM/1 and 8C/ADM/1 Add.)  (continued)
(1) The CHAIRMAN invited the Commission to  resume its consideration of the draft amendments to  the Constitution to revise paragraphs 1, 3, 4, 12 and
13 of Article V concerning the membership of the  Executive Board, as submitted by the delegation of  the United States of America in document 8C/ADM/1  Annex III and co-sponsored by the delegations    of Australia, Brazil and the United Kingdom,
(2) Mr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America)  said he had reconsidered the matter and believed  that the needs of the Organization would be better  served if the proposal to amend paragraph 3 were  withdrawn. The paragraph as contained in the  Constitution meant that no individual member of the  Executive Board could be elected for more than two  consecutive terms of office; there was, however,  nothing to prevent the Conference froma electing as a  member of the Executive Board a national of the  - 546 -   ADMINISTRATIVE  same country as the one of the outgoing member.  The principle of rotation would be facilitated.
(3) He believed that the co-sponsoring delegations  were not opposed to the withdrawal of the amend-  ment, and made a formal proposal that it he  withdrawn.  {4) Sir Kenneth GRUBB (United Kingdom) agreed  that the proposed amendment should be withdrawn  and expressed the hope that a similar solution would  be adopted with regard to the proposal to amend  Rule 96 of the Rules of Procedure.
(5) It was agreed to retain paragraph 3 of Article V  unamended.
(6) Mr, FERNANDEZ MORENO (Argentina)  expressed his delegation's agreement with the  withdrawal of the amendment to paragraph 3 of  Article V of the Constitution, as proposed by the  United States delegation, the existing paragraph 3  remaining in force.
(7) He did not clearly see how the rest of the  amendment would be drafted in regard to continuation  of the membership of a country which had already  been elected, there being, as he understood, no  fresh text designed to modify the existing paragraph
3 in that r aspect,  {8) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that any final  decisin. in the matter lay not with the Administrative  Commission but with the General Conference. If  there were no further objections, he would consider  the amendment to paragraph 3 of Article V as having  been witharawn.
(9) Mr, MENDOZA (Guatemala) said that, in view  of the official interpretation that Member States  could be re-el:cted for more than two consecutive  terms, his delegation must formulate the most  explicit reservations,
(10) Mr, HAGUIWARA (Japan) stated in what way  the word "resignation" in paragraph 4 should be  interpreted.
(11) Although a member of the Board represented  his Governmert, he should tender his resignation to  the Board (whi:h could accept or refuse it) personally,  as a member of the Board, that resignation had  nothing to do with the resignation a government  representative handed in to his Government, It  should be made «lear that the resignation of a Board  member could not be handed in by the member's  government,
(12) Mr. Hagu.wara asked for his statement to be  recorded in the minutes.
(13) Mr, BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) supported  the Japanese delegute's statement and asked the  Australian anc. United Kingdom delegates whether,  as co-sponsors, they agreed with that interpretation,
(14) Mr. KELLY (Australia) thought that the new  text of paragraph 4 as proposed was an improvement  on the corresponding clause in the Constitution,  since it cortained an indirect reference to the con-  siderations which should be taken into account    COMMISSION v-8  when electing members to the Executive Board.
(15) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) dwelt on the dangers  inherent in the new provision, He thought that the  existing text, of which one clause stipulated that the  substitute would be chosen from among the former  delegates of the State concerned, and another clause  that the choice would be submitted to the General  Conference at the following session, contained more  safeguards for the Organization.
(16) The CHAIRMAN, 1n the absence of further  comments, put to the vote the text of paragraph 4 of  Article V of the Constitution as amended by the  United States delegation.
(17) Paragraph 4, as amended, was adopted by 47  votes to 4 with 1 abstention.
(18) Mr. PAGE (Canada) said that his delegation  had always pursued the aims of the Organization as  a whole. Although his country was not represented  on the Executive Board, his delegation was concernud  with ensuring its smooth working. He thought the  Constitution should state that the Executive Board  exercised its powers on behalf of the General  Conference, In that connexion he proposed that  paragraph 12 should be replaced by the new text  under B. Functions, as proposed by the delegations  of Australia, Canada, the United States of America  and Colombia in Annex II of document 8C/ADM/1.
(19) Mr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America)  thought the proposal of the Canadiar representative  reflected a majority opinion in the Commission.  Subject to the agreement of the co-sponsors, he  would be in favour of the Canadian proposal and  would not insist on the deletion of paragraph 12.
(20) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) supported the  Canadian proposal, which he found entirely  satisfactory.
(21) Mr. MARTINEZ COBO (Ecuador) supported the  Canadian delegate, He felt that the amendment in  question would lead to a better implementation of  Unesco's programme,
(22) The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the Canadian  proposal that paragraph 12 of Article V should be  altered in conformity with the text proposed by the  delegations of Australia, Canada, the United States  of America and Colombia in Annex II of document
8C/ADM/1.
(23) The proposal was adopted by 51 votes in  favour, with one abstention,
(24) The CHAIRMAN said the amended text of  paragraph 12 proposed by the delegation of the  United States of America was intended to replace  entirely the existing text of the paragraph.
(25) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) asked that  the two paragraohs of the Japanese  amendment should be considered, and voted  on, separately.  - 547 -   v-8 ADMINISTRATIVE
(26) With regard to the Japanese amendment,  Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) explained that the  difference between documents 8C/ADM/1 Add. and
8C/DR/67 was purely a difference of drafting; it  was for the Legal Committee to choose between  the two.
(27) As it had been decided that members of the  Executive Board should henceforth be government  representatives, the most logical way of renewing  the Board would possibly be to adopt the United  States solution, whereby the whole of the Board  would be changed.
(28) However, since the members of the Executive  Board had received a four-year mandate from the  General Conference at its seventh session, there  was some objection to that course, even if it were  legally practicable.
(29) It would perhaps be better to arrange for the  non-retiring members, provided they were so  authorized by their governments, to be able to  remain on the Board for the transitional period.  That policy would contribute towards continuity In  the direction of the Organization, which was highly  desirable.
(30) For those reasons, the Japanese delegation  regarded the renewal, at present, of half the Board  as the best solution,
(31) Reverting to the problem involved in the  increase of the number of Board members, Mr.  Haguiwara thought it would be preferable to elect  twelve new members, of whom one, chosen by lot,  would have a mandate expiring at the end of the  ninth session (not the eighth, as erroneously stated  in document 8C/DR/67).
(32) In answer to a question from the Belgian  delegate, Mr, Haguiwara explained that paragraph  (a) in document 8C/M™R/67 only replaced paragraph  (a) of the transitional provisions as they appeared  in document 8C/ADM/1 Add,
(33) Sir Kenneth GRUBB (United Kingdom), while  appreciating the arguments presented by the  representative of Japan, was unable to agree with  his proposal as a whole. The co-sponsored draft  ensured continuity, Furthermore, there was  nothing to prevent a government from nominating to  the Executive Board another of its nationals who had  thitherto been serving in another capacity.
(34) Also it would be inelegant to place a member  of the Executive Board in the position of having to  consider resignation from the Board merely because  of the modification or its structure.
(35) Finally, the procedure outlined by the  renresa.tative of Japan was too complicated.
(36) For the reasons he had stated he would urge  the Commission to adopt the co-sponsored draft.
(37) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) drew the  Commission's attention to certain problems raised  by the proposed Japanese amendment.
(38) The purpose of the amendment was to give  Board members whose terms of office had not yet  expired an opportunity of remaining on the Board,  but - and the point was important - in the capacity  of government representatives.
(39) That amending effect on a vote previously  given could only be legal to the extent that all parties  - 548 -     COMMISSION  concerned accepted it, The question therefore arose  by what method the agreement between the govern-  ments and those concerned on the continuance of those  mandates should be signified.
(40) If the agreement of the governments and the  members concerned were given at once, the  Conference could take note of it before voting on the  renewal of half the Executive Board.
(41) The alternative was to consider that the silence  of the governments and persons concerned implied  consent, and that the Executive Board had only to  appoint a substitute in the event of a member  indicating that he was unable to continue in office,  To avoid any difficulties in the future, the  Administrative Commission would have to adopt a  very clear position on the subject.
(42) Mr. Saba considered that th: new paragraph (a)  submitted in document 8C/DR/67 implied something  more than a mere drafting change, since it entailed  the drawing of lots between the twelve new members  instead of between the two extra members.
(43) Mr. MENDOZA (Guatemala) concurred with the  judicious remarks of the United Kingdom delegate.  If the Japanese proposal were accepted, the Executive  Board would become a mixed body, which would  prove difficult to work. Half its members would  represent the governments and the other half the  General Conference, with resulting disadvantages  for the aitaining of Unesco's objectives.
(44) Mr. KELLY (Australia) agreed with the views  expressed by the representatives of the Uaited  Kingdom and Guatemala, He believed that the  Commission should recommend that the Executive  Board be composed of representatives of Member  States, but that it should be responsible to the  Gensral Conference, The latter should therzfore  elect the 22 members of the Executive Board,
(45) The Japanese proposal, if adopted, might give  rise to conflicts within the Executive Board or  between members of the Board and Member S*ates.  He therefore urged the Commission to adopt the  revised text proposed jointly by the United States of  Ainerica, Australia, Brazil and the United Kingdom.
(46) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) thought it was a  mirtake to see in the new paragraph (a) more than a  drafting change; on that point he disagreed with  Mr. Saba.
(47) With regard to the implications of the Japanese  amendment, he saw no legal obstacle to the  simultaneous presence, on the Board, of members  with two different kinds of mandate.
(48) Some people even considered that scheme  preferable to the one which had finally been adopted.
(49) Consequently, Mr. Baugniet was opposed to the  adoption of paragraph (b) of the Japanese amendment,
(50) Mr. DE LOS SANTOS (Philippines) supported  the United States amendment, although he  appreciated the helpful intentions of the Japanese  delegation in submitting its own amendment, The  latter, if voted, might result in legal complications,
(51) The United States proposal did not violate the prin-  ciple of continuity in the Organization, since the Secre-  tariat was permanent and maintained that continuity.   ADMINISTRATIVE
(52) Mr. FERNANDEZ MOKENO (Argentina) joined  the delegates of Guatemala, the United Kingdom  and the Philippines in seconding the United States  proposal. He considered that the rejection of the  Japanese amendmer* would simplify the problem.
(53) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) thought the discussion  was becoming involved with over-rigid principles,  Realities must be kept in view: between the Board  members representing th- .. governments, and the  National Commissions and various governmental  bodies there would be close contact and practical  working agreement, and that argued for a complete  renewal of the Board,
(54) However the Monsignor did not deny the  advantages of coexistence - assuredly peaceful -  between two categories of members, as favoured by  the Belgian delegate; and he recommended the  adoption of paragraph (a) of the Japanese amendment,
(55) Dr. MUDALIAR (India) did not wish to go into  the legal implications of the problem but tiiought 1t  was important, if the structure of the Executive  Board were to be modified, to determine the  position of those of its members who had already  served a number of years under the old system. In  his opinion the procedure outlined by the Japanese  representative should be adopted, since it recognized  the principle of continuity and also introduced =  greater element of fairness; it would, furthermore,  contribute to the efficient working of the Executive  Board,
(56) Mr, RAADI (Iran) stressed two important  aspects of the question,
(57) Firstly, the United States proposal, unlike the  Japanese amendment, was in the nature not of a  transitional provision, but rather of a draccnian  measure,
(58) Secondly, the Japanese amendment was the only  one likely to ensure a transition which would safe-  guard both the human aspect of the problem and the  requirement that the Organization's new programme  should be carried out under the part control of those  who had played so large a part in drawing it up.
(59) Morevoer, the United States delegate himself  favoured the Japanese amendment,
(60) In the opinion of Mr, BARRIOS (Nicaragua),  the votes already registered required the changing  of twenty members of the Board and the election of  twenty-two. The changing, logically, should be  complete and not partial, since a real constitutional  reform had been carried out.
(61) Mr. TREJOS DITTEL (Costa Rica) thought that  the Executive Board should be renewed completely,  since in that way a fair and equitable geographical  distribution would be achieved. In the nine years of  Unesco's existence, the American continent, and  more particularly Central America and the Antilles,  had never been adequately represented on the Board,
(62) Mr, JARAMILLO ARANGO (Colombia),  remarking that his delegation had followed the  discussion with care, said that he appreciated the  Japanese delegation's desire to maintain established    COMMISSION v-8  t: «dition. He thought however that tradition could  be preserved in other ways, and that it would be  more logical to proceed to a complete renewal  of the Board.
(63) Mr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America)  said that his delegation found itself in a somewhat  difficult situation, since it fully appreciated the  s rong arguments put forward in favour of the  Jepanese proposal, It was true that the latter  guaranteed the g.inciples nf fairness and continuity,  but the proposal of the United States of America was  less complicated, He firmly believed that, if the  United States proposal were adopted, the principle of  fairness would be safeguarded, but he would vote for  the Japanese draft and would propose the United  States text only if the former were rejected,
(64) Mr. KELLY (Australia), speaking as one of the  co-sponsors of the text submitted by the United  _States delegation, said that withdrawal of United  States support for the text did not imply that the co-  sponsors were in agreement with that decision and  were also willing to abandon their text,
(65) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil), likewisc  speaking as a co-sponsor of the United States  amendment, reminded the Commission that it had  made its choice, by a big majority, between the two  types of mandate, and that it should draw the logical  consequences from that action.
(66) He thought it would be difficult for the Poard to  work harmoniously and effectively if it were  composed of members with different responsibilities  and votes of unequal weight, some members being  freer and others more tied, although they would all  have tc answer to the General Conference in the same  way.
(67) Mr. Berredo Carneiro agreed therefore with  the Latin American delegates, and would not support  the Japanese amendment,
(68) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan), emphasizing the  need for transitional provisions, asked for the  United States proposal to be adopted in the event of  the Japanese amendment being rejected.
(69) He then reminded the Commission that,  according to a resolution adopted by the General  Conference at its seventh session, ten days' notice  of elections to the Board should be given, in order to  allow time for candidates to be put forward.
(70) Mr. Haguiwara wondered whether that provision  was compulsory or not, i.e. whether 1t meant that  no further candidates could now be nominated.
(71) Governments whose nationals on the Board were  not due to retire would want to nominate candidates  if the United States amendment were adopted as it  stood. But, as some governments would have to  consult the National Commission, or the ministry or  uaiversity to which the proposed candidate belonged,  a certain time would be required before he could be  nominated,
(72) That could cause confusion when the  election took place, and the governments  that had already put forward their candid-  ates would thus have an advantage over  the others,  - 549 -   v-8 ADMINISTRATIVE
(73) Mr. Haguiwara asked whether that provision  regarding the election of the Board was compulsory  or not.
(74) He also asked for information as to the effect  which the adoption of the United States amendment  would have on the provisions governing re-eligibility.
(75) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) read out the  resolution which the Japanese delegate had ailuded  to (7C/ Resolutions, res, 42.2 - 42,24, p.107) and  explained that it was only a recommendation,  despite the fact that some delegations had wanted it  to be otherwise at the time when it was discussed.
(76) In any case, Rule 95, paragraph 2 of the Rules  of Procedure was perfectly clear; "Only delegates  nominated ... before the ballot, may stand for  election.” Nominations could therefore be accepted  up till the last moment.
(77) Ir connexion with re-eligibility, Mr. Saba  considered that members of the Board could receive  two successive mandates, no matter what the  duration of those mandates happened to be. Under  the existing texts, which the proposed amendments  sought to modify, members who, under the  transitional provisions, had had their mandates  somewhat extended would not be re-eligible.  {78) Under the new transitional provisions, unless  stated to the contrary, re-eligibility should be taken  as meaning re-eligibility without any limit of time,  no matter how long the previous term or terms  happened to be,
(79) The CHAIRMAN recalled that paragraph (a)  dealing with transitional provisions as submitted by  the Japanese delegation in document 8C/DR/67 was  intended to replace only paragraph (a) of the  Japanese draft amendment contained in the Annex to  document 8C/ADM/1 Add.
(80) He put paragraph (a), in its amended form, to  the vote, It obtained 21 votes to i9 against, with
14 abstentions.
(81) The required two-thirds majority not having  been obtained, the amended text of paragraph (a) as  submitted by the Japanese delegation was not adopted.
(82) The CHAIRMAN said that, since paragraph (a)  of the Japanese proposal had not been adopted, there  was no need to vote on paragraph (b).
(83) He put to the vote the amended text of paragraph
13 of Article V as proposed by the United States of    COMMISBION  America in Annex III of document 8C/ADM/1, which  obtained 47 votes against 1, with 5 abstentions,
(84) The required two-thirds majority having been  obtained, paragraph 13, as amended, was adopted,
(85) The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the proposal of  the United Sates of America (8C/ADM/1, Annex
111) as a whole and as amended in the course of the  discussion, The proposal received 46 votes in  favour and 6 against; there was 1 abstention,  /86) The required two-thirds majority having been  obtained, the draft amendment as a whole and as  modified was adopted,
(87) The CHAIRMAN said that the Administrative  Commission had still to consider the amendments to  the Rules of Procedure consequential upon the  amendments to the Constitution adopted by the  Commission.
(88) Mr, KOTSCHNIG (United States of America)  proposed that, since the amendments to tlie Rules of  Procedure were entirely consequential upon the  amendments to the Constitution adopted by the  Administrative Commission, their consideration  should be left to the Legal Committee. In order to  facilitate such a measure his delegation agreed to  withdraw its proposal to delete paragraph 3 of Rule
30 on the functions of the Nominations Committee  (document 8C; ADM/ 3 (II)).
(85) Mr, FERRARA MARINO (Cuba) said that, in  order to expedite matters, his delegation would also  withdraw its proposed amendments to the Rules of  Procedure (document 8C/ADM/3 (IV), Annex I).
(90) The CHAIRMAN said that the Administ rative  Commission would be in a position to adopt the Rules  of Procedure as amended after the Legal Committee  had considered the matter. If the Commission  agreed that the amendments to the Rules of  Frocedure were entirely consequential upon the  amendments to the Constitution it had adopted, he  proposed that consideration of the amendments to the  Rules of Frocedure should be referred to the Legal  Committee.
(91) It was so agreed,  The meeting rose at 1 p.m.  - 550 -