ADMINISTRATIVE  ITEM 9.4.7 OF REVISED AGENDA: REQUEST FROM THE  GOVERNMENT OF IRAN FOR THE WRITING OFF OF TRE  SUM OF $4,913.13, BEING A LOSS INCURRED BY THE IRANIAN  NATIONAL COMMISSION ACTING AS A DISTRIBUTING AGENCY  FOR UNESCO COUPONS (document 8C/ADM/ 29)
(77) Mr. RAADI (Iran) said that, in view of the  detailed nature of the document under discussion, he  would give no more than a brief summary of the  subject, He pointed out that the circumstances which  had led to an altered exchange rate for the rial in  terms of the dollar were exceptional, and stressed  the fact that the National Commission's budget was in  any case not large enough to meet the resultant  situation, He accordingly submitted a motion to the  effect that "the Administrative Commission recommend  that the General Conference authorize the Director-  General to write off the sum of $4,915, 15 to the  Iranian National Commission acting as a distributing  agency for Unesco coupons,"
(78) That motion was supported by the Colombian,  Chilean, Belgian, Egyptian, Israeli and Italian  delegates,
(79) Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) explained,  further, that it was not always easy for Unesco to  accept payment for Unesco coupons in the currency  of the country in which they were issued, of which it  often had no need. Occasionally that problem was  solved by negotiations with other Specialized Agercies  who could use the currency. That had been the case  with Iran, The United Nations had accepted Iranian  currency and repaid Unesco in French francs, but it  had specified a date for receipt of payment on the  part of the Iranian National Commission: 1 November
1952, when the rate was 41 rials to the dollar. The  proceeds were only deposited on 31 August 1953, by  which time the ratc had moved and $4,900 were lost  on the exchange,
(80) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) was wholly in favour of  the proposal submitted by the delegate of Iran, but  wished it enlarged to cover similar losses incurred  by other Nationai Commissions ($5, 700 had been lost  in Israel, $1,600 in Yugoslavia in a similar manner).
(81) Mr. SALIM (Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan)  thought that each case should be studied on its merits.
(82) Mr, EL-ZAYAT (Egypt) supported the motion  in the case of Iran, but felt that, if the concession  were made general, Unesco would be the loser.
(83) Mr, BENDER (Executive Board), in reply to a  question by the delegate of Ceylon, said that the  Board had not been informed of the cases of Israel  and Yugoslavia.
(84) Miss LAISE (United States of America) thought  that the real problem was to avoid the occurrence of  similar incidents in the future. Should National  Commissions be entrusted with the distribution of    COMMISSION v-2  Unesco coupons unless underwritten by their govern-  ments? She proposed that the discussion be postponed  until all the facts had been presented,
(85) That proposal was supported by the delegates of  the Netherlands and Australia.
(86) Mr. RAADI (Iran) said that the proposal  submitied by the United States delegate was equivalent  to a request to the Director-General to fix future  policy. He was not opposed to that idea, but, silice  the Iranian request, which had been prompted by  exceptional circumstances very unlikely to recur,  had already been carefuily examined, he repeated  his request that the question be discussed 1rnmediately.
(87) Mr, EL-ZAYAT (Egypt) moved an amendment  to the motion for postponement, He suggested that  deferment should apply to the other two cases. rhe  case of Iran should be considered at once.
(88) Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) said he hz no wish to  complicate procedure, Lut he wondered whether it  would not be helpful if anv motion or draft resolution  framed in the course of a meeting were submitted to  the delegates in writing, so that they might have a  definite text clearly in mind when they voted. If  necessary, the mover might dictate slowly to his  colleagues.
(89) Mr. RAADI (Iran) reminded the Commission  that the question had only been brought before che  Executive Board in order to obtain the latter's  permission to include it on the Administrative  Commission's agenda. He wanted to add, however,  that after a study of that special case had been made,  the Director-General had intimated, in the course of  the discussion, that he would support thz Iranian  Government's request before the General Conference.
(90) Mr, FRAGA IRIBARNE (Spain) remarked that  only the request of the Government of Iran figured  on the agenda; those submitted by the delegations of  Yugoslavia and Israel were not included; there was  therefore no need to decide whether or not the for mer  should be dealt with, The Commission should proceed  with it at once.
(91) Miss LAISE (United States of America) feared  that, if a decision were taken, the Com mission  might be creating a precedent. It was not yet known  why the National Commission of Iran had not made  the payme at at the arranged time. A fair decision  could not be taken at that stage.
(92) Mr. KELLY (Australia) said that the delegate  of the United States of America had raised a question  of principle, He moved that the discussion be  deferi'ed until the afternoon meeting.
(93) Agreed.  The meeting rose at | p.m.  - 518 -   v-3 ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  THIRD MEETING
15 November 1954 at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman. Mr. BEEBY (New Zealand)  &  ITEM 9.4.7 OF REVISED AGENDA REQUEST FROM TUE  GCYERNMENT OF IRAN FOR THE RRITING OFF OF THE SLM  OF $4,913.13, BEING A LOSS INCURRED DY THE IRANIAN  NATIONAL COMMISSION ACTING AS A DISTRIBUTING AGENCY  FOR UNESCO COUPONS (document 8C/ADM/29) (continued)
(1) As the Iranian request had already been  discussed in the morning Mr. SALIM (Hashemite  Kingdom of Jordan) moved that a vote be taken on it  without further delay.
(2) The motion was se~onded by Mr. BAUGNIE L  (Belgium).
(3) Mr. KELLY (Australia) was of opinion that the  Iraman request raised a pcint of principle which  called for a full discussion, He therefore opposed  the motion for the closure of the debate.
(4) The Australian motion was seconded by Messrs  POHL (Union of South Africa) and KOTSCHNIG  (United States of America) on the grounds that they  wished for further information,
(5) Mr. RAADI (Iran) thought that no decision need  be taken on the closure motion; but if the latter  were rejected he would be very willing to give the  Commission additional explanations on the substance  of the question, which had already elicited comment  from previous speakers,
(6) The motion for the closure of the debate was put  to the vote and rejected by 15 votes to 9.
(7) Mr. MENDOZA (Guatemala) said that he  sympathized with the request from the delegation of  Iran; a purely distributing agency, not working for  profit, should not be responsible for losses if these  did not arise from its own management methi ds.  That was a question of principle, and the case of  Iran should not be regarded as a special and separate  one, There were other similar cases; and the  Commission should be concerned to establisa a  precedent, not to act casuistically. A general  principle should be established for resolving that or  similar questions fairly.
(8) Mr. SALIM (Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan) did  not consider it to be a matter of principle. The  Iranian National Commission had simply been unable  to make payment in time; there was no question of  ill will,
(9) Mr, BLANCO ACEVEDO (Uruguay) said that the    Commission should coi.sider the request by the  Iranian delegation sympathetically, but thought that  the latter should explain in greater detail the sentence  in the letter from the Iranian National Commission to  the Director-General where it was said that the  losses incurred by the Commission as distributing  agency for Unesco coupons had been "unavoidable  because of the administrative procedure applying, in  Iran, to budgetary periods and dates of payment”.  The delegation of Iran should say exactly what those  difficulties were,
(10) The case in point and others similar to it, should  be settled in the light of the actual difficulties which  had resulted in a loss of money that Unesco was being  called upon to make good.
(11) Mr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America)  said that his delegation was very much in sympathy  with the difficulties of Iran and its National  Commission, There was obviously a principle at  stake, however. There was also a matter of proce-  dure, and the question which he wished to put was not  to the Iranian delegaticn but to the Secretarial, Had  the whole scheme been set up in such a way as to  minimis: e the danger of such an occurrence? Were  there any rules laying down a time-limit for payments?  At a time when there was too much instability of  currency, such rules should exist; if they did not,  some authority, such as the Executive Board, should  try to work out a procedure whereby countries in a  state of inflation could be saved from the present  embarrassing situation.
(12) Mr. ZUCKERMAN (Depariment of Mass  Communication) explained that, as a general rule,  payments for Unesco coupons were accepted only in  United States dollars, French francs or pounds  sterling, An exception had been made, however, in  the case of three countries - Iran, Israel and  Yugoslavia - which were unable to pay in those  currencies. They were supposed to pay for coupons  within a given time.
(13) In the case of Iran, a delay had occurred, but  Unesco had not been informed at the time and had not  been aware of the loss until the United Nations  credited the Organization with a sum less by  $4,915.15 than that expected. As far as the danger  of creating a precedent vas concerned, all three  cases wen* back to 1952 and, since then, the turnover  had been increasing. At present, the monthly  turnover was $150, 000,
(14) Mr, KELLY (Australia) felt that in cases where  there had been considerable delay in paying on the  - 520 -   ADMINISTRATIVE  part of a National Commission, the latter, rather  than Unesco, should bear the loss involved; otherwise,  Unesco would find itself in the position of subsidizing  a particular National Commission. If a National  Commission incurred a loss, it should look first to its  own government and people. Unesco should not have  to pay for the administrative inefficiency of National  Commissions,
(15) While in sympathy with Iran, Mr. POuL (Unior  of South Africa) was against prejudging the issue  without sufficient evidence, If a country came to  Unesco for relief, 1t should justify its request fully.
(16) Princess Souvanna PHOUMA (Laos) observed  that the Iranian National Commission was not alone  in having had to face financial difficulties resulting  from currency devaluation in connexion with Unesco  coupons. The National Commission of Laos, for  instance, some time ago found itself in a similar  pesitien, from which it was able to escape only by  great efor . The delegation of Laos was therefore  keenly interested in the way the Iranian Government's  request would be treated by the Conference.
(17) Although he was quite prepared to vote 1n favour  of the request, Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) wished to  know what steps the Secretariat intended taking to  avoid other National Commissions having to make  similar requests in future.
(18) Mr. ZUCKERMAN (Department of Mass  Commurication) replied that there had been devalu-  ations since 1952, but that no loss had been incurred  because it had been arranged that payment should be  made in French francs. Further, National  Commissions bad been instructed not to issue coupons  until they had actually been credited.
(19) Mr. RAADI(Iran) regretted that the Iranian  Government had been obliged to bring before the  General Conference a question to which the  Commission had already devoted a fair part of its  valuable time. But the Director-General himself had  judged it advisable to submit the matter to the  Conference.
(20) In reply to the various remarks made, Mr. Raadi  observed that the problem facing the Iranian  National Commission was in no way due to inefficiency  on its part, For years, in fact, that Commission had  succeeded in distributing Unesco's coupons under  favourable circumstances. But it had recently been  placed in an exceptional situation because the national  budget had not been voted by the expected date, and  the distributing agencies - which were mostly govern-  ment organizations - had therefore been deprived of  the funds which they needed to pay for the coupons  forwarded to them.
(21) In any case, as Unesco coupons were designed  to help institutions in certain countries to obtain  bus or material which they would rormally have  great difficulty in procuring, the Administrative  Commission would only be showing itself faithful to  the spirit of the system if it voted in favour of the  Iranian request.
(22) The CHAIRMAN requested the Commission    COMMISSION v-3  to vote on the following resolution:  "The Admimstrative Commission recommends  that the General Conference accede to the request  from the Government of Iran for the writing off oi  the sum of $4,915.15, being a loss incurred by the  Iranian National Commission acting as a distributing  agency for Unesco coupons, "
(23) The resolution was adopted by 26 votes to 6.
(24) The CHAIRMAN observed that there was another  request, and a further one was expected, but that  there was no motion before the Commission, He  therefore suggested that the Secretariat be asked to  prepare a paper for a later meeting, covering both  requests and showing the implications for future  occasions.
(25) Agreed.  ITEM 9.3.2 OF REVISED AGENDA DRAFT AMENDMENTS OF  ARTICLE V AND ARTICLE VI OF THE CONSTITUTION,  PROPOSED BY THE DIRICTOR-GENFRAL (document 8C/ADM2)
(26) Mr. BENDER (Executive Board) introduced  document 8C/ADM/2 and drew attention to the draft  resolution on page 2.
(27) Mr. HUZAYIN (Egypt), supported by several  delegations, moved approval of the Executive Board's  resolution.
(28) Mr. POHL (Union of South Africa) stated that  his delegation was entirely in favour of the principle  involved, but was not satisfied with the wording. The  words "since the last ordinary session of the  Conference" at the end of the first paragraph were  confusing, and the words if necessary in the fourth  line of the second paragraph seemed inappropriate,  He therefore proposed the substitution of the  following words at the end of the first paragraph:  "which he is required to prepare in accordance with  the terms of paragraph 3 of Article VI", and the  deletion of the words 1f necessary in the second  paragraph.
(29) The CHAIRMAN remarked that the drafting  would be considered by the Legal Committee.
(30) In reply to the observations just made, Mr. SABA  (Legal Adviser) said that one of the Legal Committee's  tasks would be to make sure that the terms of the  proposed amendments were really in line with the  intention underlying them. Referring to page 2 of  document 8C/ADM/2, he observed that in the fifth  line the words ‘all but the first sentence of should be  replaced by ‘all but the first sentence ...... amended  to read as follows:. He also thought tnat, 1n the  penultimate line, the wor is if necessary need not be  deleted, If the General Conference in fact met  immediately after the end of the financial year, the  additional report in question would not be required.
(31, Mr. Saba next recalled that the essential  purpose of the proposed amendments was that the  periods covered by successive reports of the  - 521 -   v-3 ADMINISTRATIVE  Director-General should correspond with the two  financial years during each of which specific activities  should be completed. Such a method, he thought, was  all the more to be recommended because Unesco had  in any case to submit annual reports to the Economic  and Social Council for the neriod beginning 1 January  and ending 31 December.
(32) Mr, WEST (United Kingdom) seconded the  Board's proposed amendment to paragraph 9 of  Article V, subject to any drafting changes which the  Legal Committee might recommend. On the other  hand, he was not sure that the proposed amendment  to paragraph 3 of Article V1 was necessary, He was  against tying down the Secretariat to a period which  might prove inconvenient in the future. His delegation  therefore proposed that the intention behind the  suggestion to amend paragraph 3 of Article VI be  incorporated in a resolution of the Ganeral  Conference. The Legal Committee could be asked  to prepare the resolution for approval Ly the  Commission,
(33) It was agreed to approve the Executive Board's  resolution in principle, referring it to the i.egal  Committee, which would report back to the  Commission,  ITEM 9.3.3 OF REVISED AGENDA: DRAFT AMENDMENT TO  THE CONSTITUTION, AND OTHER PROVISIONS, RELATING  TO THE WITHDRAWAL OF MEMBER STATES (documents
(34) Mr, BENDER (Executive Board) outlined the  main points in document 8C/ADM/6 and stated that  Cambodia had been the only Member State to submit  amendments (document 8C/ADM/6 Add. ).
(35) Mr. RAADI (Iran), seconded by Mr. FERNANDEZ  MORENO (Argentina) and Mr, VITO (Italy), moved  approval of the Executive Board's resolution in  paragraph 4 on page 2 of document 8C/ADM/8,
(36) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) thought it very  desirable that the question of withdrawal should be  examined during the current session of the  Conference. As no Member State was at the moment  contemplating withd.~awal from the Organization, the  problem could be discussed freely - which was not  the case at the seventh session and might not be at  the ninth.
(37) If however, the Conference decided to postpone  consideration of the question to the ninth session,  Mr. Haguiwara felt that such postponement should  not be based on any desire to await the revision of  the United Nations Charter. The Constitution of  Unesco was a separate and independent instrument,  entirely different in character from the Charter of  the United Nations - which, moreover, unlike  Unesco, was a political institution.
(38) Mr. BENDER (Executive Board) pointed out  that the Board's resolution contained no reference  to the United Nations.
(39) Mr. POHL (Union of South Africa) was in broad    COMMISSION  agreement with the delegate of Japan. He also  supported the preamble on page 1 of the docurient:  "The General Conference, hoping that Unesco will  continue to adhere etc....". However, as unesco  and WHO were the only two Agencies which had made  no provision for withdrawal, he felt that the  omission should be repaired as soon as possible,  To refer the matter to the General Conference at its  ninth session would mean further delay, He also  agreed with the delegate of Japan that Unesco's  decision need not depend upon that of the United  Nations. He therefore moved that the Commission  reject the Executive Board's proposal.
(40) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) shared the views of  the South African delegate. He thought it desirable  that the question of withdrawal should be examined at  a moment when it was not linked with any specific  case,
(41) Mr, WEST (United Kingdom) seconded the  remarks made by the delegates of Japan, the Union  of South Africa and Belgium, He agreed that it was  far better to discuss the problem when there was no  case before the Conference,
(42) For the reasons given by previous speakers,  Dr. MUDALIAR (India) and Mr, KOTSCHNIG  (United States of America) were against postponing  consideration of the problem,
(43) The Executive Board's resolution on page 2 of  document 8C/ADM/6 was put to the vote and rejected  by 19 votes to 10.
(44) The CHAIRMAN drew attention to the alternative  clauses proposed by the Director-General at the top  of page 2 and asked members whether they wished to  refer them immediately to the Legal Committee, or  to take a decision on the principle first.
(45) Mr. MENDOZA (Guatemala) said that, although  the Administrative Commission might agree to refer  the matter to the Legal Committee, it would be  interesting to exchange impressions on the substance  of the question in the Commission itself. It was the  most delicate of all the matters before Unesco at the  current session of the General Conference, The  Government of Guatemala had studied it with great  interest and care, after it had been apprised of the  text of the document issued by the Executive Board.
(46) The Guatemalan delegation considered that the  Constitution of Unesco, like the Constitutions of  other organizations, should contain an article  regulating the way in which a goverrmight might  exercise the right to withdraw froru the Organization  when circumstances demanded it. The first  alternative draft in document 86C/ADM/6 was, from  that standpoint, acceptable. The withdrawal of a  State was a unilateral act, as was its entrance to the  Organization. The first alternative draft contained,  however, one point which might cause difficulties -  that the right to withdraw should be subject, in its  execution, to a time-limit of 12 months, which had  been established in the light of the biennial  Conference system. If that proved an obstacle, a  time-limit of two years could be substituted, or  - 522 -   ADMINISTRATIVE  a waiting period until the subsequent session of  the General Conference.
(47) The second alternative draft was unacceptable,  and that must be said with the greatest emphasis. It  embodied a principle which affected the sovereign  rights of States. The question of belonging or not  belonging to an international organization could not  be dependent on a vote, still less on a vote which,  in order to be effective, required a two-thirds  majority. An act of sovereignty could not be made  subject to the results of a voting procedure of that  sort.
(48) Furthermore, if a State did not wish to remain  a member of an organization and there was machinery  blocking its withdrawal, the upshot would be self-  defeating and lacking in all sense. It would create a  situation of rebellion, since a Member State that took  no part and did not pay, could not be made the subject  of legal sanctions which would oblige it to remain in  the organization, collaborate with it, and contribute  to its financial expenditure. Fven if such sanctions  existed, they would be ineffective, as those whc were  forced to co-operate never co-operated well,  Collaboration with international organizations must  be based on goodwill and spontaneity.
(49) Mr. Mendoza concluded by expressing anxiety  as to the possibility of the second alternative draft  or a proposal similar to that submitted by the  delegation of Cambodia, being approved.
(50) Mr. KELLY (Australia) stated that his delegation  was in favour of the first alternative, subject to the  addition of the following words at the end of the first  paragraph: "or shall affect the continuing legal force  of agreements concluded by the withdrawing State  with Unesco, '' The second paragraph would remain  the same. His delegation considered that it would be  completely unrealistic for the Constitution to try to  bind States to membership against their will,  Unesco was bound to assess all Member States  whether they accepted their obligations or not, and  experience had shown that the assessment of Member  States not wishing to remain members of the  Organization led to extremely complicated financial  procedures,
(51) The CHAIRMAN reminded the Commission that  amendments to the Constitution of a substantive  nature had to be circulated six months in advance,  and an amendment to an amendment, three months  in advance,
(52) Mr. KELLY (Australia) pointed out tha his  amendment was merely an enlargement of the last  sentence of the proposed amendment, intended to  make for greater clarity.
(53) Mr. FRAGA IRIBARNE (Spain) presented a  motion solely relating to procedure. He thought it  would be a tactical error to opt for one of the two  extremes - i, e., that the two alternative drafts  should not be discussed before the Legal Committee  had been informed of them, and that they should not  be sent to the Legal Committee without any comment  at all, The Commission should take a decision of  principle on them and, if any change of detail should  arise, it too should be communicated to the Legal    COMMISSION v-3  Committee for the latter to pronounce upon it.
(54) At the CHAIRMAN's suggestion, Mr, KELLY  (Australia) moved the adoption of the first alternative  in principle.
(55) Mr. FERNANDEZ MORENO (Argentina) said  that his delegation had previously voted against taking  up à position, so as to support the Executive Board's  resolution: the Argentine delegation accepted  however the Guatemalan representative's standpoint  without reserve, and therefore considered that  Member States had a prior right which could not be  made subject to a vote.
(56) He supported the Australian delegation's  proposal with regard to Article II. 6.
(57) Mr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America)  agreed with the views so far expressed. Anything  but the principle of unilateral withdrawal would run  counter to international law and would, in any case,  be unpractical, leading to financial complications.  He therefore supported the Australian motion.
(58) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) proposed that the  Commission vote on the principle forthwith, leaving  drafting amendments to the Legal Committee.
(59) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) thought the Commission  could approve in principle - subject possibly to a few  amendments of detail - the text appearing at the top  of page 2 of document 8C/ADM/6, under the title of  “First alternative providing for withdrawal by the  decision of the withdrawing State alone", He  emphasized that it was hardly possible to force a  country to remain, against its will, a Member State  of Unesco.
(60) Mr. SALIM (Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan)  pointed out that,as Unesco's aim was to be universal,  it was desirable for it to have as many Member States  as possible. It could happen that a Member State  decided to withdraw from the Organization against  the wishes of its own people, and such a situation  should be guarded against, Further, from the  financial point of view, if a State contributing a large  sum to the budget decided to withdraw, it would have  an adverse effect on Unesco's work. He was there-  fore in favour of the second alternative and of  imposing a long period of notice between a government's  request to withdraw and the acceptance of that request  by the General Conference.
(61) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan), seconded by Mr.  KOTSCHNIG (United States of America), moved the  closure of the de bate and the submission of the  Australian motion to the vote.
(62) Adopted.
(63) The Australian motion to approve the first  alternative in principle was adopted, with 1 abstention.
(64) The CHAIRMAN invited members to move  the text of the first alternative in document
8C/ADM/6, or other amendments not contra-  vening Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure,  - 523 -   v-3 ADMINISTRATIVE  or resolutions for the guidance of the Legal  Committee.
(65) Mr. KELLY (Australia) moved the amendment  which he had proposed earlier,
(66) Mr, BAUGNIET (Belgium) suggested that, in the  text at the top of page 2, the words "Such notice shall  take effect one year after the date of its receipt, .."  should be replaced by "Such notice shall take effect  at the end of the year following the date of its  receipt..." A country which had informed the  Director-General of its wish to withdraw would thus  be obliged to fulfil its obligations as a Member State  for more than one year subsequent to such  notification.
(67) Mr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America)  moved the addition of another sentence, to follow on  from that proposed by the delegate of Australia,  namely: ‘The financial obligation to the Organization  of a Member State or Associate Member State which  has given notice of withdrawal shall include the  entire financial period in which the notice takes  effect".
(68) The adoption of that amendment would ensure  that the two-year budget as not completely upset in  the case of one of the larger contributors feeling  unable to continue its membership. For example,  if a country gave notice of withdrawal in April 1955,  it would have to pay its contribution until the end of
1956.  {69) Mr. SOLDATOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) wished to make 1t quite clear that, although  his delegation was 1n favour of the principle of  unilateral withdrawal, it could not consider itself  bound by the considerations put forward since the  vote on the principle had been taken.
(70) The CHAIRMAN explained that none of the  suggestions at present being made was binding, They  would all be referred to the Legal Committee and the  Commission would have an opportunity to vote on  them when the Committee reported back. With  regard to the Belgian proposal that notice of withdraw-  al should not become effective until the end of the  following year, he pointed nut that a Member State  giving notice, for exampie, in 1956, would have to  contribute payment until the end of 1958.
(71) Mr. FERREIRO (Uruguay) said that his  delegation had voted in favour of the question being  postponed, in accordance with the line taken by the  Executive Board. He thought that the problem could  not be brought up at the present time, in view of the  character of Unesco and the system by which Member  States belonged to it.
(72) The question was being debated whether Member  States could withdraw from ine Organization unilater-  ally, when they thought it convenient, and not by a  majority decision; but it should not be forgotten that    COMMISSION  such States would have contracted obligations prior  to their decision to withdraw, and the Organization  could require that such obligations be discharged.
(73) Article II of the first alternative was not  correctly drafted; instead of saying "may withdraw  from the Organization", it should read: "deciding  to withdraw from the Organization, shall give  notice ..." etc.
(74) Similarly, the proposal earlier submitted by the  United States delegate represented a basic alteration  to the draft. It could not be accepted, since Rule 104  of the Rules of Procedure stipulated that amendments  of that kind must be presented at least three months  before the opening of the General Conference, It was  not a drafting or procedural amendment, but a basic  amendment; and the Commission, therefore, could  not examine it. Article II now being considered said  that the withdrawal of a Member State should not  affect the financial obligations owed by that State, and  the United States proposal modified that substantially  by fixing a time-limit of two years for the discharge  of those obligations.
(75) Mr, NEVINSON (United Kingdom) proposed that  the Australian, Belgian and United States' suggested  amendments be submitted to the Legal Committee in  writing, so that it could work out their implications  and see whether they were compatible or incompatible  and whether they were practicable.
(76) Dr. MUDALIAR (India) pointed out that notice of  withdrawal was not tantamount to acceptance of it.  The time element was therefore important, A  Member State should be given time to reconsider i;  request to withdraw. With regard to the motions  concerning financial obligations, he agreed that the  Commission should not discuss them further until the  Legal Committee had considered their admissibility,
(77) Mr, VILLALON GALDAMES (Chile) said that in  the Spanish text of document 8C/ADM/6, where it  spoke of the notice of withdrawal addressed to the  Director-General, there appeared the word previa;  that might give rise to doubts. The English text was  clearer. In Spanishit was necessary to say no more than  "mediante notificaciôn al Director General" or  "notificando al Director General", without including  the word previa.
(78) The CHAIRMAN asked if the Commission would  agree to the United Kingdom motion, worded as  follows:  "The Administrative Commission resolves to  inform the Legal Committee that it has approved in  principle the unilateral withdrawal of Member States,  and refers, without prejudice, notices of motion to  it for consideration."
(79) The motion was seconded by several delegations  and adopted.  The meeting rose at 6.30 p.m.  - 524 -