VI-22 ADVISORY  called the "First Report by the Advisory Committee,  As regarded the suggestions made by the United States  delegation concerning priorities, an attempt had been  made at the Florence Conference in 1950 to evolve a  basic Unesco programme, but it had proved exceed-  ingly difficult to define priority projects except in  the most general terms. No General Confe ence  would agree to restrict the prograinme to }.gn  priority items only. A more hopeful way might be  to examine the main sub-sections of the programme  and decide what items could be deleted.
(33) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) considered that the  Committee had accomplished its task by dividing the  various projects into three categories, with different  priorities, and that it had no more to do in that field.  He wondered whether it was really the province of  the Committee to intervene in regard to the deter-  mination of the tota! budget figure.
(34) Mr. BOW (Canada) thought that, while the Com-  mittee had been highly successful in its examination  of the programme, it had been less successful with  the budget. He could not agree that the Committee  should not make budgetary recommendations. It was,  after all, the Advisory Committee on Programme and  Budget.
(35) The CHAIRMAN observed that it was not the  task of the Committee to decide on a total figure for  the budget. That could only be fixed in terms of the  money which Member States were prepared to pro-  vide. The Committee had gone through the estimates  and tried to establish priorities which would enable  the Conference to fit the programme into whatever  budget was decided on. It was not the Committee's  task to decide on how many projects there should be  in 1855-56,
(36) Miss LAISE (United States of America) thought  that enough had been said to guide the Rapporteur. As  COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME     AND BUDGET  regarded the layout of the report, the conclusions  were apt to escape attention if appended at the end,  Better a short general discussion, followed by the  conclusions reached by the Committee, with the more  detailed consideration of the various items appended.
(37) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) differed from the  Chairman in feeling that the Committee ought to dis-  cuss budget totals, in order to facilitate the work of  the Programme ana Budget Commission,
(38) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that, while he  had not been able to foilow the work of the Committee  in great detail, it was his feeling that, although the  Committee was not a budget committee in the sense  that 1t ought to recommend a level of expenditure, it  had to inform the Programme and Budget Commission  of the cost of implementing the recommended pro-  gramme. He could promise the Committee every  assistance from the Secretariat in determining the  cost of carrying out the projects which the Committee  considered Unesco should undertake,
(39) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) suggested that the Com-  mittee issue its report, supplementing it with an  additional report if required.
(40) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt), seconded by Mr.  JUNANKAR (India), proposed that the question of re-  modelling should not be discussed at that stage, but  be dealt with in a later report.
(41) This proposal was put to the vote and adopted by
9 votes to 2, with 1 abstention.  The meeting rose at 7 p.m.  TWENTY - SECOND MEETING
15 November 1954 at 10 a.m.  Chairman: Mr. GARDNEP DAVIES (Australia)  REMODELLING OF THE FUTURE PROGRAMME OF UNESCO  «document 8C/PRG/13)
(1) The CHAIRMAN said that, in the last two meet-  ings, the Committee had been able to deal with this  matter only in the most general terms. lt was  important that the Programme and Budget  Commission should have the benefit of its views,
(2) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive    Board) said that, in November 1953, the Executive  Board had reviewed the progress made by Unesco.  There had been general agreement that Unesco had not  succeeded in securing the interest of Member States,  nor, in some cases, of intellectuals, to an adequate  degree, Nor had it made much impact on  the masses. It had been agreed that Unesco  could go further in regionalizing its work, not  in any geographical sense, but by common  treatment of countries with similar problems,  - 784 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEF ON  and that its projects vere spread over too wide a  field.
(3) At its next session (March 1954), there had been  further discussion on those lines, and he had produced  a short statement which had been taken into account by  the Director-General in reshaping the programme for
1955-56. Thus, if the Conference rejected remodel-  ling, it would be logical for it to reject the 1955-56  programme also.
(4) At Venice, Sir Ronald had, with the assistance of  the Secretariat, produced the document now before  the Committee. That document, he believed he was  right in saying, had enjoyed the support of all but one  of the members of the Executive Board,
(5) The first part of the document dealt with the  weaknesses of Unesco and the reasons for the criti-  cism levelled against it, The second part dealt with  the structure of the programme, and there was a  most important section on division of special activi-  ties Into those initiated by the Organization and those  undertaken at the request of Member States. Particu-  lar stress was laid on the need for concentrating on  major projects. [t was suggested (paragraph 58)  that, to be really effective, projects should be  evolved in co-ordinated fashion by all the Unesco  programme departments. Fundamental education  was the easiest example to take, since it was of  concern to all Unesco departments, In that respect,  it was to be hcped that the Confererce would provide  the Director-General with guidance in his task of  drawing up requirements for the 1957-58 programme.
(6) The provision of technical aid to Member States,  discussed in the section on activities undertaken at  the request of Member States, ought not to be con-  fused with technical assistance, for which Unesco  was responsible to a limited degree only. Technical  aid was of extreme importance in gaining the con-  fidence of Member States - a fact with which he had  been particularly impressed in the course of the  world tour he had undertaken with the Director-  General. Although such aid was available to all  Member States without exception, and was not res-  tricted to economic or social development, it would  of course largely take the form of assistance tounder-  developed countries. He hoped that Member States  would pay a good proportion of the funds required, so  that Unesco could do more and do it more thoroughly,
(7) The CHAIRMAN thought it important to stress  that the type of major project envisaged by the Board  was that which would require a contribution by all the  programme departments, as in the case of fundamen-  tal education, It was not possible or appropriate at  that stage for the Committee to try to define precise  projects, but in its report it might say that it was  prepared to devote time to the matter later, with a  view to submitting some general projects of the kind  envisaged.
(8) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)thought  there was little he could add to Sir Ronald Adam's  remarks. Although document 8C/PRG/13 was  submitted in the name of the Executive Board,  which took the responsibility for it, the Secretariat  had actively helped in preparing it, Accordingly, he  was able, inthe Director-General's name, to endorse  Sir Ronald Adam's conclusions.  PROGRAMME     AND BUDGET VI-22
(9) There were, however, two points he was anxious  to make.  Firstly, the document as it stood was a compro-  mise production, for certain sections had had to be  recast to secure the approval of all members. One  section dealt with the need for progressive concen-  tration on major projects; the Secretariat was most  anxious for precise instructions on that point. The  Conference had always called for concentration but  without specifying the exact form it should take, The  notion of large-scale projects in which several  departments took part was most attractive but it would  be dangerous to embark on that course without having  considered what its effect would be on the organization  of the Secretariat and the balance of the programme  and budget.  Secondly, consideration should be given to how far  the Secretariat could act on the ideas expressed in the  document - if approved - when carrying out the pro-  gramme for 1955-56. The Director-General was of  the opinion that scmething could be done, but that it  would be desirable to establish a working fund for the  purpose; a sum of $300,000, for instance, might  enable him to accelerate the execution of certain  major projects and to study a number of new projects  which he would submit to the Conference at its next  session. To that end the Conference might designate  the matters on which the Director-General would be  asked to submit major schemes and authorize him to  set aside a certain sum from the 1955-56 budget  towards the preparaticn of those schemes. The  Director-General was ready to consider any means  which would assist the transition from the 1955-56  programme to the 1957-58 programme in certain  priority areas.
(10) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive  Board) was glad that, in preparing its document, the  Board had enjoyed the assistance of the Director-  General and Assistant Director-General, to whom, in  fact. the Board owed much,
(11) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) said that in the  last few years the work of Unesco had been an  inspiration te countries far removed from the main  centres of civilization, andhe had every confidence in  the future of the Organization. There was a sense In  which the document before the Committee was an act  of self-criticism by the General Conference, which  was responsible for electing the members of the  Executive Board.
(12) A point that required special attention was the  question of transition between the programme in its  present form and the remodelled programme. Some  secretarial reorganization might be necessary, and  there might have to be a change in the relationship  between Unesco and the National Commissions and  between Unesco and the general public.
(13) A type of work on which he would lay great stress  was what he would call "clearing house" activities.  Unesco was called upon to act as a clearing house for  information, to be studied and made available to the  world at large. Then there were what he would call  "promotional' activities, i.e. activities directed  to some specific end. A division of Unesco  activities into those two categories would, he  felt, be helpful.  - 785 -   Vi-22 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON
(14) As regarded B, in the seccion on general activi-  ties, he was worried by the possibility of continuous  Unesco subsidies designed to secure intellectual col-  laboration between specialists. Non-governmental  organizations, after an initial period, should surely  stand on their own feet.
(15) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) said that his delegation  was in favour of the idea of Member States’ taking a  larger share in the preparation of Unesco's program-  me but was a little disturbed at the prominence given  to meeting requests for assistance from those States,  and was afraid that the general activities might suffer  as a result. A proper balance had to be preserved  within the programme. While :t was important to  aid the masses and win them to Unesco's cause, the  more highly educated minority who, wherever they  lived, took an interest in Unesco, could not be  neglected.
(16) Mr. Florkin was also disturbed by the remarks  of the delegate of Egypt. The co-ordination of the  work of specialists was a permanent activity and  should be continued, experience had shown that  appreciable results were obtainable in that domain.  It would be unwise to neglect activities of that kind in  favour of the provision of aid which, while undeniably  useful, might come to absorb the bulk of the energies  and funds available,
(17) With regard to the Assistant Director-General's  suggestion that provision be made for new projects  involving more than one department, the delegate of  Belgium wondered whether its adoption would not lead  to the creation of new departments which would be  superimposed on the others and make the structure of  the Secretariat more complicated; in his view, it  would not be possible to plan new projects without the  assistance of new specialists,
(18) Mr, JUNANKAR (India) welcomed the document  as a frank recognition of past failures and as an  attempt to think along new lines. The great question  was whether Unesco was to be merely an agency for  the exchange of information, or whether it was to  give practical assistance to Member States in so far  as its resources would permit. In fact, the docu-  ment itself recognized that Unesco could not limit  itself to activities of the former type. There must  be greater activity (and the fact should be given more  emphasis) by Unesco itself, by its Member States,  and by the National Commissions.
(19) He himself was speaking for the underdeveloped  areas of the world in affirming that the crucial task  before Unesco was to ensure equal opportunities for  all in the fields of science, education and culture. If  Unesco failed to do that, it would fail to command  confidence and respect,
(20) Concentration of resources and effort was not  incompatible with the setting of definite targets. Thus,  in the field of education, it was not enough to affirm  tha! education must be free and comnulsory. Special  priority should be given to the introduction of free  and compulsory education, with secondary priority  being given to education for better internaticaal  understanding. In the natural sciences, priority  should be given to the use of nuclear energy for  peaceful purposes; in the social sciences, to the  removal of current tensions and discrimination in its  PROGRAMME     AND BUDGET  various fcrms. In the field of culture, special at-  tention should be given to making generally available  the cultural heritage of East and West, Increased  resources would be required (s9 much was acknowled-  ged in the document) and should be devoted to the  carrying out of specific projects designed to meet the  vital needs of specific areas. Such a programme  might of course involve structural changes in Unesco,  but only so, he felt, could Unesco command world-  wide loyalty and enthusiasm. In short, future pro-  grammes should be so devised as to meet the needs of  the underdeveloped areas, and a recommendation  should be made to the effect that resources be made  available for specific purposes in specific parts of the  world until such time as definite results had been  achieved.
(21) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom), welcoming the  document, said it was not easy to achieve a proper  balance between emphasis on resources and emphasis  on activities, and he feared that the previous speaker  had laid undue stress on the latter,
(22) The 1dea of help for the underdeveloped areas  was by no means new; Unesco had launched its pilot  project in Haiti long ago. In 1951, a most ambitious  scheme had been proposed by the then Director-  General for the eradication of world illiteracy, to cost  twenty million dollars over a period of twelve years.  What was new was the emphasis on concentration on  particular activities, but, while concentration was an  ideal to which all paid lip service, it was in practice  exceedingly hard to decide what activities should be  eliminated,
(23) He was not for a moment suggesting that enough  had already been done, but he did feel that there was  a real danger of raising excessive hopes. Problems  such as the eradication of illiteracy were tremendous  and the full implications of the efforts needed to solve  them were not always fully grasped. It was a fallacy  to think that, if Unesco did nothing, nobody else would  do anything. It was also a fallacy to think that these  stupendous problems would be solved if only certain  people, certain privileged countries, could be  prevailed upon to exert themselves a little more,
(24) Besides, it was wrong to say that the more pri-  vileged peoples had done nothing. In all history, no  greater effort had been made to help the rest of the  world than was being made by the United States of  America. That great people deserved recognition  and gratitude. The United Kingdom was a much  smaller and less populous country, andhad suffered  severely in two world wars, but had contrived to find,  the year before, some three hundred and fifty million  dollars for economic develcpment in the British  Commonwealth.
(25) While economic assistance to the underdeveloped  areas was vitally important, there were other forms  of co-operation, not connected with economic develop-  ment, which could not be covered by the Expanded  Programme of Technical Assistance. Another point  had to be borne in mind, namely, that technical as-  sistance was a scheme which concerned other agencies  besides Unesco. A really ambitious project by Unesco,  such as a large-scale education drive, might well  throw the whole thing out of gear.
(26) The delegate of Egypt had said how important it  was that specialized organizations of experts should  - 186 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  not indefinitely be subsidized by Unesco. But the  work done by such organizations was often of extreme  value, especially to the underdeveloped arcas (he was  thinking of the invention and provision of antibiotics),  and therefore 1t was not quite accurate to suggest that  intellectual co-operation was carried on at the expense  of actual technical aid.
(27) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) admitted to doubts about  the work to be done. He thought that Sir Ronald  Adam's remarks on the importance attached by the  countries which the latter had visited to Unesco's  technical aid programme supported the Indian dele-  gate's argument that in the years to come the  Organization should strive to meet the urgent requests  of Member States,
(28) He likewise appreciated the soundness of the  Belgian delegate 's views on the importance of per-  manent and enduring co-operation between groups of  intellectuals throughout the world, scientific  organizations and other bodies,
(29) What previous speakers had said showed the  importance of achieving an effective balance, and as  logical as possible a balance, between activities  designed to promote co-operation and special  activities in individual countries. The difficulty lay  in finding that balance, and for that reason he felt  that commonsense was needed and a realistic approach  to such problems as the economic limitations of Mem-  ber States, legal or customs restrictions, and  restrictions on movement, etc,
(30) He felt that there were also prejudices against  which the Organization would have to fight. For  instance, as he saw it, campaigns against racial dis-  crimination could not be prosecuted, when, as was  frequent, racial prejudice subsisted at the back of the  promoters ' own minds.
(31) Nor should the present psychological state of the  various countries be overlooked: the cold war and  international tension were positive trammels on  Unesco's activities.
(32) Mr. Siller was not stressing such obstacles  because he felt that Unesco should fold its arms and  do nothing; on the contrary, he felt that Unesco  ought to struggle against those obstacles to preserve  the Organization's labours from impracticality. It  was his belief, too, that, in pursuing the rationaliza-  tion of Unesco's activities to achieve a proper  balance in its future programme, delegates should  avoid undue optimism about the support likely to be  forthcoming from individual countries or other  organizations.
(33) In conclusion, Unesco shoula act with its eyes  open, calculating its means with precision and esti-  mating the support likely to be received from the  various regions, so that its efforts would not have to  be wasted on the obstacles mentior.ed but would go  directly to meeting the needs of M:mber States.
(34) Mr. BRICHET (France) thou ht docum=nt 8C/  PRG/13 an excellent piece of s.if-criticism «nd  hoped the Conference would take it into consideration  He wished, however, to make 1t clear that the French  delegation did not subscribe to the recommendations  in paragraphs 62 and 68 for the allocation of a larger  proportion of the Organization's energies and re-  sources to special assistance activities. In hus    VI-22  delegation's view, it was undesirable to contrast  general and special activities: the stress should, on  the contrary, be put on the principle of unity which  should inform both, and a balance should be estab-  lished between th: departments of Unesco and the  activities involving Member States.
(35) Secondly, it would be dangerous to awaken hopes  which might not te fulfilled; such a course might  well have consequences of the utmost seriousness for  Unesco's future,
(36) Lastly, the Organization should not be trans-  formed either into a technical assistance agency or  into a supra-national Ministry of Education. The  part it had to play had been clearly defined at the  Florence Conference: it was to co-ordinate and  promote activities consonant with its programme, to  develop international co-operation, to foster the  growth of non-governmental organizations, and to  facilitate exchanges of information and documentation.  As the delegate cf Belgium had pointed out, anylarge  increase in the sums allotted to technical aid might  necessitate the termination of certain of the Orga-  nization's permanent activities, The two parts of  the programme were interdependent and one should  not be neglected in favour of the other.
(37) Mr. Brichet also shared the uneasiness ex-  pressed by the delegate of Belgium over the plane for  progressive concentration on certain major projects,  which, it seemed to him, would necessarily involve  the creation of new services in the Secretariat,
(38) Mr, AVIDOR (Israel) could not altogether share  the pessimism with which the Executive Board  appeared to view the situation. Too much had been  made of the fact that Unesco was not a very familiar  name to the masses. Education, science and culture  had never been popular with the masses, even in the  highly developed countries. In fact, considering its  budget, Unesco had considecable achievements to its  credit.
(39) Statements had been made Implying that National  Commissions ought to be more effective, but at least
62 Member States had such Commissions, and the  lists of membership were often very impressive. If  Unesco were more active, the National Commissions  would be more active too,
(40) Unesco, alter all, was still a young organization,  and in the fields of education, science and culture,  progress was necessarily tentative and slow.
(41) He did rot consider that the General Conference  would be able to provide the Director-General with  precise instructions. All it could do would be to  define the goals to be attained, leaving the Secretariat  free to devise the requisite methods of attaining them.
(42) He would suggest that, in future, three main  principles be adopted. Firstly, there should be a  concentration of activities in the light of the exper-  ience acquired and the -esources available, Secondly,  there should be increased aid to Member States. And,  thirdly, co-oporation between Member States at the  regional level should be encouraged, by which he  meant that there should be co-operation between Mem-  ber States having similar problems, not necessarily  between States speaking the same languages or in the  same region geographically.
(43) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) said that, in the  - 787 -   Vi-22  opinion of his Government, Unesco was bound to de-  vote part of its resources to assisting underdeveloped  countries. But international co-operation in the  various branches >f knowledge must not be sacrificed  to increased tec ical aid. A balance must be  maintained between the various activities of Unesco,  and increased technical aid should be dependent on  whether additional resources were made available.  Perhaps the cost of Unesco's general activities could  be reduced by getting greater assistance from the  non-governmental organizations.
(44) Mr. LEE (United States of America) found it  possible to agree with what many of the previous  speakers had said. The difficulty was that the Com-  mittee was discussing ill-defined notions such as  "concentration" and "balance", on which agreement  was easy as long as no attempt was made to come  down to earth.
(45) The Umited States of America welcomed the  document on remodelling, most of which it could  endorse. Its National Commission had studied the  matter and approved the drive for greater concentra-  tion, the strengthening of National Commissions, and  increased emphasis on aid to Member States in  resvonse to their expressed needs.
(46) He was grateful to the delegate of the United  Kingdom for the generous tribute paid to his country.  While less pessimistic than the delegate of the United  Kingdom, he was less optimistic than the delegate of  Israel. There was a large area of agreement. But  could they hope to evolve instructions which would  assist the Director-General? Surely the Conference  ought to do more than just lay down policy. The  Director-General should be given guidance as regards  the organization of the staff and preparation of the  ground for the 1957-58 programme. The Committee  might adopt a tentative recommendation for the Pro-  gramme and Budget Commission, which could debate  the matter and either refer it back or set up a working  party to study it.
(47) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) said that he had  not meant that international collaboration between  specialists should be neglected, but that there should  be definite agreement between Unesco and the non-  governmental agencies concerned as to the aims to be  achieved, and the necessary resources should be made     ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  available to such agencies for limited periods only.  The furtherance of such collaboration came within  what he had called the "promotional activities of  Unesco, its "clearing house" activities remaining  fundamental.
(48) The CHAIRMAN said that there was no necessary  incompatibility between the views expressed about  international collaboration between experts, especially  as far as Unesco was concerned. Unesco would have  to foster its relations with the non-governmental  agencies - that was essential for what the delegate of  Egypt had called its "promotional’ activities, The  Committee would have to decide whether the document  would enable it to assist the Conference by recom-  mending broad projects for the 1957-58 programme.  It might conceivably take up the Director-General's  suggestion that machinery be devised in 1955-56  whereby, at the ninth session of the Conference, he  could take immediate energetic action on a small  number of main projects.
(49) Mr. PANNETON (Canada) said that document
8C/PRG/13 entirely satisfied him. He emphasized  that, 1f improvements were asked for, it was because  only what was good could be improved and bec~use  every living thing must evolve,
(50) He would, however, like the wording of paragraph
37 to be amended by the addition of the words "limited  in numbers and, so far as practicable, 1n duration”,  immediately after the word "delimited".
(51) Mr. FREY (German Federal Republic), while  welcoming the document, spoke with some little  diffidence as the representative of a country which had  but lately joined Unesco, He attached particular  importance to close co-operation between the  Secretariat, the Executive Board and Member  States, and was glad to hear that the Executive  Board had received much assistance from the  Assistant Director-General in producing its docu-  ment. It was of great importance, he considered,  to develop the National Commissions and to bring  them into closer contact with the Organization  over the next two years.  The meeting rose at 1 p.m.  - 788 -