ADMINISTRATIVE  FOURTH  COMMISSION  MEETING
16 November 1954 at 10.30 a.m.  Chairman : Mr. BEEBY (New Zealand)  ITEM 9.3.1 OF REVISED AGENDA: AMENDMENT TO ARTICLE V  OF THE CONSTITUTION (STRUCTURE OF THE EXECUTIVE  BOARD) (drcuments 8C/ADM/1 and 8C/ADM/1 Add.)
(1) The CHAIRMAN, introducing the documents,  said that Annex 1 of document 8C/ADM/1 (proposal  by the United States of America) had been withdrawn  by its sponsors in favour of the amendment to  Article V of the Constitution set forth in Annex 3,  which amendment was also sponsored by Brazil,  Australia and the United Kingdom. Annex 2 (draft  amendment by Australia, the United States of  America, Canada and Colombia) could be held over  for later discussion.
(2) The Commission should therefore begin by  considering Annex 3. The important question at  issue was whether members of the Executive Board  were to be private individuals acting on behalf of the  Organization as a whole, as theretofore, or  representatives of governments. Document
8C/ADM/1 Add. was an amendment by Japan to the  proposed Umted States amendment to the Constitution.  He reminded the Commission that any proposal for a  change in the Constitution had to be adopted by a  two-thirds majority.  {3) Mr. SHARIF (Pakistan), raising a question of  procedure, thought it would be better to start with a  general discussion of the Japanese proposal  {document 8C/ADM/1 Add.) for an increase in the  membership of the Executive Board ‘rom twenty to  twenty-two. If the Commission considered that such  an increase was desirable, it could then go on to  consider the question of election procedures, travel  and daily allowances for members of the Executive  Board, etc.
(4) The CHAIRMAN observed that the Japanese  amendment had been put forward as an amendment  to the United States amendment, Therefore after the  Umted States delegation had formally moved its  amendment, the Japanese delegation would have to  move its own amendment thereto, which would be  voted on before the United States proposal. As  regarded the question of election procedures and  allowances, he understood that a change in the  principles governing membership of the Executive  Board might be acceptable to certain delegations,  provided certain conditions were fulfilled.  Delegations which took that line should therefore  make their position clear during the debate, At the  same time it was difficult to discuss subsidiary  matters like allowances until the basic point at  issue had been decided on.
(5) Mr. FRAG! IRIBARNE (Spain) proposed that the  question of the membership of the Executive Board  be taken first,
(6) The CHAIRMAN observed that any decision taken  by the Commission had to be referred to the Legal  Committee and was thus necessarily tentative.
(7) Mr. AVIDA (Israel) said that, in the Japanese  amendment to the United States proposal, 1t was  proposed that the membership of the Executive Board  be increased from twenty to twenty-two. Would it be  considered a substantive change if, in the course of  the discussion, some other number were proposed?
(8) The CHAIRMAN referred the speaker to Rule 106  of the Rules of Procedure. It was for the Commission  to decide whether a point of substance was involved,  and for that the advice of the L. gal Committee was  required,
(9) Mr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America)  said that the draft amendment to the Constitution  appearing in Annex 3 to document 8C/ADM/1 was  being submitted on behalf of the Government of the  United States of America, and with the full support of  the Umted States National Commussion, it was co-  sponsored by the Governments of Brazil, Austraha  and the United Kingdom. Fundamentally, 1t was  proposed that the Executive Board should no longer  be composed of private individuals, but of government  representatives, who would of course serve on behalf  of the General Conference which had elected them and  would be bound by its policies. An important  consideration in favour of the proposal was that they  would be aided by guidance and instructions from their  governments, Even more important was the fact that  governments would feel themselves committed by the  actions of their representatives, Paragraph A. 4 of  the proposed amendment laid down that, in the event  of death or resignation, a member of the Board  should be replaced cn the nomination of the government  of the State the former member represented.
(10) Paragraph A.3 laid down that retiring members  should be eligible for re-election. His Government  felt that the Conference should not tie its hards and  that 1n some cases re-election of the same govern-  ment to membership of the Board might be desirable.  At the same time, it strongly believed in the principle  of rotation, holding as it did that in any democratically  orgamzed body every government should have the  chance to serve, It was emphatically against the  existence of permanent seats, It also believed that  the cultural contribution of a small country rmight be  - 525 -   V-4 ADMINISTRATIVE  just as valuable as, or more so than, that of a large  and powerful one. The best way of achieving  rotation, in its view, was by informal agreement  among the countries represented at the General  Conference.
(11) Under B, Functions, the amendment proposed  the deletion or paragraph 12 of Article V - the  paragraph, namely, which specified that members of  the Board should not act as representatives of their  governments.
(12) Under C. Transitional Provisions, the United  States amendment provided for the re-election of the  entire Board at the eighth session of the General  Conference.
(13) His Governinent could accept the Japanese  amrndment for an increase in the membership of the  Board, with but slight amendments, But if the  Conference reject d the United States amendment,  the Japanese proposal, being an amendment to that  amendment, would lapse tao.
(14) There were several reasons for the proposal.  In the first place, the responsibilities of the Board  were very heavy, since it was responsible not only  for the programme but also for the handling of  administrative and financial matters, and might be  faced with major political issues, such as the  admission of new members, Since implementation  of the programme was largely a matter for govern-  ments, it followed that a governing body enjoying the  support of governments and able to draw on them for  expert advice would be much better able to perform  its task.
(15) The General Conference of Unesco met only  every two years, and in an epoch of rapid change that  was much too long a period over which to confide the  fortunes of the Orgamzation to a Board of individuals.
(16) The change proposed would make for greater  stability and continuity. As it was, he had been  disagreeably impressed by the number of recom-  mendations made by the Board which had not been  approved by the Conference. That reflected the fact  that governments did not feel themselves bound by  the decisions taken by the Board, The change  proposed would mean that governments would feel a  greater sense of responsibility for the Organization,  since they would be represented in its key body, and  would no longer consider it, as they had a tendency  to do at present, as an unimportant step-child.
(17) His Government attached the very greatest  importance to its proposal. The question of effecting  a change in the membership of the Executive Board,  on the lines just described, and the question of  remodelling the programme were the two most  important matters with which the Conference was  faced. The whole future of Unesco might depend on  them.
(18) He was fully aware of the anxiety felt in certain  quarters lest the dead hand of bureaucracy descend  on the Executive Board and men of lesser stature be  appointed to serve on it. Those fears, he felt, were  unfounded. If an unsuitable person were put forward  as a candidate by any government, the Conference  could always reject him. The United States Govern-  ment, at any rate, would make every effort to put  forward men of real eminence, and not just govern-  ment officials. It was in fact putting forward a scien-  tist and administrator of the very highest standing.    COMMISSION
(19) It had been suggested that a decision on the  matter be postponed another two years, but the issye  had been raised as far back as 1951. Any further  postponement would be highly undesirable,
(20) Mr. FRAGA IRIBARNE (Spain) stated that the  Spanish delegation seconded the United States  amendment in principle. It agreed to the substance  of the proposal, since it considered that the Executive  Board's hybrid legal status needed changing.
(21) It was essential to proceed with the greatest  care in such matters, but there should be no  hesitation in trying out new formulas until a suitable  one was found.
(22) As things were, there was on the one hand the  General Conference, a purely intergovernmental body,  and on the other the Secretariat, which could and  should be completely international; mid-way between  them stood the Executive Board, which exercised many  of the powers of the Conference between the latter's  biennial sessions and acted as a permanent supervisory  body on its behalf,
(23) He did not think the suggested change was a  radical one; it was, rather, a question of bringing  the practical machinery of Unesco into harmony with  the spirit of the Organization.
(24) Various objections might be raised. For example,  it might be urged that the Executive Board should  consist not of civil servants, but of men of outstanding  scientific and cultural merit. Yet it should not be  overlooked that the Board was basically an admini-  strative body, and that 89% of Unesco's resources  were the resources of governments, Another frequent  argument against the proposed amendment was the  possibility of changes in the governments of the  various countries. But that was really an argument  in its favour.
(25) For those reasons, the Spanish Government and  delegation considered that the change proposed hy the  United States of America was a good one. As  regarded points of detail, the Spanish delegation  supported the Japanese amendment. There were  other more difficult problems; on the question of  complete re-eligibility, for instance, the Spanish  delegation had certain reservations to formulate and  would speak on the subject again later.
(26) Mr. KELLY (Australia) said that when, the day  before, the Commission had aiscussed the right of  Member States to withdraw from the Organization, 1t  had reaffirmed two principles: firstly, that there  must be respect for national sovereignty and autonomy  and, secondly, that co-operation, to be effective,  depended on the assumption of international  obligations not by individuals, but by Membe- States.
(27) He would therefore invite the Commiss on to  carry those principles into practice by adop'ing the  United States proposal that members of the Executive  Board, while continuing to act on behalf of Inesco,  should be responsible to the Member S:ates appointing  them. Nor did he doubt that their own dist nctive  traditions would lead the USSR and Poland .o concur  in that matter,
(28) The United States proposal, if carrie), would in  no way impair the rights of the General Ccnference.  The privileges and rights of different cilti res would  continue to be safeguarded by Article V, paragraph  - 526 -   ADMINISTRATIVE  A.2, which set forth the considerations govern-  ing elections to the Board.
(29) He was not going to criticize the present Board  for lack of integrity or capacity. Far from it. The  point, to put it frankly, was that the Board was not  representative in character; 1t was a body made up  of individuals acting in their private capacity in an  organization made up of States. No other Specialized  Agency, except (he believed) the World Health  Organization, tolerated such a state of affairs. It  was high time to bring Unesco into line with the other  international organizations,
(30) The Board was not comparable to the autonomous  governing council of an autonomous world university.  In Unesco, Member States framed the policy of the  Organization and financed it, and were ultimately  responsible for carrying it into effect, Therefore  the Board should be chosen by, and responsible to,  them,
(31) Mr. CARBAJAL VICTORICA (Uruguay)  announced that the Uruguayan delegation opposed the  amendments advocated by the United States delegation,  because the experienc: so far gained by the  Organization did not justify the introduction of sucl.  a change, and because, instead of remedying the  defects which had been found in Unesco's functioning,  it would merely aggravate them.
(32) The General Conference in London had been  wise in providing scope, in an intergovernmental  organization, for free expression of the trends of  opinion among men who were devoting their lives to  the cause of education, science and culture. The  impression gained from a reading of the Constitution  was not of undue emphasis on action by States. The  question was, therefore, whether it was advisable to  strengthen the position of the government authorities  or to broaden the powers of the bodies representing  society as a whole, and bringing their wisdom and  experience to bear on the problems of science,  education and culture.
(33) Moreover, there was no real cause for alarm  about the action that the Executive Board might take.  As a general rule, the Board was responsible for  translating Unesco's programme and budget into  practice, There seemed little likelihood that such  administrative powers would offer scope for abuse,  It was clear, on the other hand, that, although the  rôle of the State was limited, they were still able to  work effectively through Unesco.
(34) The distinction between society and the State was  a fundamental tenet for Uruguay. The nation based  its whole concept of sovereignty upon that idea, But  sovereignty did not mean an absolute system of  powers and authorities, subjer: to no control;  sovereignty did not mean nationalism. The world had  no need to strengthen the authority of government,  for it was already sufferiug from the iragedy of  unbridled authoritarianism, Delegates should  consider carefully whether the influence of govern-  mental authority within Unesco should indeed be  further strengthened,
(35) The idea behind the United States proposal, he  added, was sound enough, But the Uruguayan  delegation did not consider that, since the competence  of the Executive Board was quite clearly defined, its  members needed to be government representatives,    COMMISHION v-4  No Uruguayan could believe that the mainspring of  creative action was authority; he would look for it,  rather, in the free expression of public opinion. If  there were any question of increasing powers,  Uruguay would favour increasing those of the men  who were working independently in the cause of  culture. The powers of the Executive Board as it  stood gave no cause for alarm. It had been  suggested tha" two years was a dangerously long term.  No doubt the principle of rotation in the membership  of national and international bodies was a good one,  but two years could hardly be considered an excessive  period. Morcover, during those two years, the  States were not out of touch with the conduct of  affairs by the Executive Board.
(36) In the optmion of the Uruguayan delegation,  members of the Executive Board should remain  responsible only to the General Conference, working  for the international community and not as the agents  of States. For the rest, although it was proposed to  delete paragraph 12 of Article V, that provision was  not superfluois. It was, on the contrary, of the  highest importance, 1t con‘ained the legal safeguards  of the independence of members of the Executive  Board. Uruguay wished members to be independent  of the governments that had helped to elect them,  because 1t believed that all the members of Unesco  should be respected as the servants of a cause which  was of the greatest international significance.
(37) He considered that, far from being a step  forward, the adoption of the reform proposed by the  United States delegation would be a retrograde  measure. It would aggravate the existing defects.  The Uruguayan delegation would deeply deplore the  transformation of Unesco into an Academy of Letters  subject to despotic control.
(38) Mr. GCMEZ HOYOS (Colombia), seconded by  Mr. FERNANDEZ MORENO (Argentina), proposed  that discussion of the matter be adjourned for two  days in order to enable delegations to consider the  question amongst themselves.
(39) Mr. NIELSEN (Denmark) was against such  adjournment, on the grounds that the views expressed  in the Commission would guide delegations in their  private deliberations,
(40) The CHAIRMAN observed that in any case no  final decision could be taken until the views of the  Legal Committee had been obtained.
(41) The Colombian proposal to adjourn debate for  two days wa: put to the vote and rejected by 18 votes  to 16, with & abstentions.
(42) Mr. GOMEZ HOYOS (Colombia), seconded by  Mr. FERNANDEZ MORENO (Argentina), then  proposed that no vote should be taken on the matter  for the next two days.
(43) The CHAIRMAN observed that no final vote  could in any case be taken before the matter  had been referred back from the Legal Commit-  tee. Perhaps a vote might be taken on the  principle involved, subject to any comments  by the Legal Committee.  - 527 -   V-4 ADMINISTRATIVE
(44) Mr. SOLH (Lebanon) asked what the  Commission meant by final vote and vote on the  principle. He was not very clear on the difference  between the two terms and wondered whether, once  a vote on the principle had been taken, the Commis-  sion would have anything left to do but to put the  final touches to the drafting.
(45) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) was afraid that such  a decision might curtail the discussions, It seemed  to him that, if the Colombian delegate's proposal  were adopted, it should be made quite clear that the  discussion was to be continued at the meetings  scheduled for that purpose, and at an additional  meet.ng, if necessary.
(46) Finally, it was agreed by 29 votes to 1 that no  vote should be taken on the major issue before the  afternoon of Thursday, 18 November,
(47) Mr. NIELSEN (Denmark), a member of the  existing Executive Board, said that the Danish  Government, and the Danish National Commission,  would prefer the existing status of the Board to be  maintained, That status had been agreed to by a  majority in 1945, when the Constitui.on was adopted,  and the United States of America had given it  vigorous support. It had been agreed that, evenin  the governing organ of Unesco, the various world  cultures should be able to make their influence felt,  and that the best way of ensuring that was to endow  the Board with its present status.
(48) In certain quarters it had been doubted whether  the members of the Board were really free from  pressure on the part of their governments, All he  could say was that his country had never tried to  influence him, and the same, no doubt, was true of  other membe”»s,
(49) Those in favour of the United States proposal  had been careful to say that the change would involve  no pressure from governments or National  Commissions on members of the Board, But it was  to be feared that, if the proposal were adopted, the  Board would receive political briefing to such a  point that any real discussion would become difficult  or impossible. The Board would degenerate into the  tool of national ‘foreign ministries, Nor could he  agree with the delegate of Spain that the Board was  just an administrative organ; the proposals submitted  to the Conference by the Board showed that it was  more than that.
(50) The major part of Unesco's work was unpolitical,  or ought to be. Besides, it was false to say that,  under the existing arrangement, Member States were  debarred from airing their views, The Director-  General often went out of his way to invite their  comments,
(51) There were, 1n addition, practical difficulties  to be considered. Suppose the government of a  member of the Board were replaced, for any reason  at all; would that member continue to sit, and must  he go on voicing the opinions of the defunct  government?
(52) In Annex II of document 8C/ADM/1, paragraph  B.11, it was stated that "although the members of  the Executive Board are representatives oi their  respective governments, they shall exercise the    COMMISSION  powers delegated to them by the Conference on behalf  of the Conference as a whole." That sounded fine,  But would it mean anything in practice?
(53) The delegate of the United States of America  had stressed the advantages accruing from the fact  that governments would feel bound by the decisions  of the Board if it were made up of their representatives,  But vould a government feel bound by a majority  decision taken by the Board, if its own representative  had voted against?
(54) He therefore continued to believe that, ideally,  members of the Board should work together as a  team in the interests of Unesco as a whole, and that  they should not be briefed by individual governments,
(55) Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) said that he had found  the arguments put forward during the discussion  extremely interesting, but would be glad if the  delegates of the United States of America and Spain  would elucidate a point which he thought obscure.  According to the proposed amendment to Article V of  the Constitution, the Executive Board would be  responsible to the Conference, but would be composed  of representatives of various governments, The  Lebanese delegate wondered whether the adoption of  that principle might not lead to a deadlock. As an  example, he asked the Commission to suppose that  the Conference were to ask the Executive Board,  which was responsible for drawing up the Conference  agenda, to consider including some particular  question, such as unemployment among intellectual  workers; what would happen if all twenty or twenty-  two members of the Board rejected the suggestion?  Could the General Conference thus be conirolled by a  few governments who would, in that way, enjoy  special privileges?
(56) The Lebanese delegate understood that other  orga:izations, such as the Security Council, had  circumvented that difficulty, He thought it imperative  that, before the Commission came to a decision, it  should consider closely whether the proposed  amendment was legally compatible with Unesco's  structure.
(57) Mr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America}  saw r.o contradiction in saying that a Board composed  of government representatives would be bound by the  decisions of the Gencral Conference. It could not,  in fact, fail to implement those decisions. It would  be unthinkable, for example, that the Board shou'd  refuse to put a particular item on its agenda if it had  been requested to do so by the Conference.
(58) The Security Council had very special functions,  and was not a comparable body. The real parallel  lay between the Executive Board and the Council of  FAO or the Governing Body of ILO, which worked as  bodies of government representatives along lines  dictated by the conferences of those organizations.
(59) Mr. FRAGA IRIBARNE (Spain) pointed out that  the amendment of paragraphs 3, 4, 12 and 13 of  Article V of the Constitution did not involve  amendment of the clauses contained in section B.  Only the method of election and the representative  status of members of the Board were affected, not  the Board's powers or functions, in respect of which  it was still responsible to the General Conference.  - 528 -   ADMINISTRATIVE
(60) Mr. MENDIS (Ceylon) said that the arguments  in support of the proposal had been most ably  presented by the delegate of the United States of  America. There were three basic reasons for the  amendment, Firstly, it was the governments of  countries which applied for membership. Secondly,
1t was governments which nominated the delegates  sent to conferences. In fact, in his delegation, he  had a colleague who did not represent the government  at al}, but the National Commission and the university.  Nevertheless, all were required to produce credentials  from their governments. Thirdly, it was from  governments that Unesco drew its funds, “no taxation  without representation”. Acrordingly, he whole-  heartedly supported the United States proposal.
(61) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) gave his Government's  reasons for submitting an amendment to the amendment  + :1e original motion of the United States Government.  T e transitional provisions, set out in Section C of  Annex III to document 8C/ADM/1, provided for the  re-election by the Conference of all the members of  the Executive Board, with the stipulation that the  members should no longer be elected for their  personal qualifications alone, but as representatives  of their respective governments. The Japanese  Government felt that such a measure perhaps went  too far: the existing members of the Executive Board  had been chosen from among the delegates of Member  States, and were therefore persona grata with their  governments and could be assumed still to enjoy their  confidence; ary of them who did not desire to continue  in office as a representative of his government was  free to resign. Election of all the Board members  was therefore unnecessary; it would be perfecdy  possible to retain, in their new capacity, the ten  members whose term of office did not expire in 1954,  and to replace the ten outgoing members by electing
12 new members, to bring the total membership up  to 22. That procedure would make the election  easier and provide for continuity in the Board.
(62) The Japanese delegate also considered that his  Government's proposal to raise the number of    COMMISSION V-4  Executive Board members from 20 to 22 was justified  by the increase in the number of Member States. In  similar circumstances, other Specialized Agencies  had already taken that consideration into account, If  there were more Board members, 1t would be easier  to ensure the representation of all groups of States  and an equitable geographical distribution, Inci-  dentolly, the Chairman of the Executive Roard  himself had first mooted the suggestion, which hau  been supported by all the members when it had come  up for discussion, Owing to the time-limits laid  down by the Rules of Procedure for the submission  of new proposals, it had had to be presented as an  amendment to an existing proposal, but 1t was none  the less of the utmost importance. Mr. Haguiwara  thought that the change suggested in the number  of members was not simply a drafting change,  The Japanese delegation consequently hoped  that its amendment would be accepted with the  original proposal put forward by the four  governments,
(63) Mr. BENDER (Executive Board) wanted  a ruling on whether the Japanese amendment  stood or fell with the United States  proposal, or whether it might be taken  separately.
(64) Mr. SHARIF (Pakistan) said that the Japanese  amendment might be considered to stand separately,  since it did not affect the substance of the United  States proposal. The question should be carefully  considered in the Legal Committee.
(65) Mr. AVIDA (Israel) said that the Legal  Committee should also consider whether it would be  in order to increase the membership of the Board if  the motion were accepted.
(66) The CHAIRMAN said that the points in question  would be referred to the Legal Committee.  The meeting rose at 12. 45 p. m.  - 529 -