ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VI-23  TWENTY - THIRD MEETING
15 November 1954 at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman : Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Australia)  REMODELLING OF THE FUTURE PROGRAMME OF UNESCO  (document 8C/PRG/13) (continued)
(1) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive  Board) said that he had been very interested in the  discussion at the morning meeting, and would like to  reply to some points which had been made. The  Executive Board, in proposing the division of the  programme into two parts, had realized the impor-  tance of general activities. Paragraph 19 mentioned  their intrinsic value as providing 2 framework and  structure for international co-operation throughout  the worid, Taking the programme for 1855-46,
32.54% of the budget was to be used for general acti-  vities and 67.46% for other activities, That meant  that two-thirds of the budget woud be used for  special activities. Aid to Memb:r States accounted  for 10% of the total budget.
(2) With regard to the question of regionalization, the  Executive Board was of the same opinion as the dele-  gates of India and Israel. Sir Ronald suggested that  to bring Unesco to the regions, members of the Se-  cretariat should be sent there for long periods and  help to set up projects and inspect the progress made.  That would be a good way of getting members of the  Secretariat into the field, enabling them to get to  know a Member State or a group of Member States.
(3) The Executive Board did not think of Unesco as a  super -educational agency, as had been feared by the  delegate of the United Kingdom, but thought of it  rather as a body to stimulate interest in education.
(4) In Thailand the project for school reform was  being carried out with the co-operation of Unesco.  In addition, representatives of the Iiternational  Labour Office, the Food and Agricuiture Organization  and the World Health Organization were working with  Unesco staff in the field, That was a hopeful sign of  co-operation with other agencies. It was to be hoped  that each year would bring about closer co-operation  with other agencies in every project.
(5) The Executive Board had carefully studied the  problem of the National Commissions and had come to  the conclusion that only one-third of those in existence  were effective. The Board was convinced that there  was only one way of carrying out the programme of  Unesco and that was through governments. The  governments would have to find out that they could  not do the work without National Commissions,
(6) Concerning the division of the programme  into two parts, the Board considered that  that was the best method from an adminis-  trative point of view, Section 1 applied  to the continuing work of Unesco and Section  II to the changing work. It seemed to be  the only logical division.
(7) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) thought  that the real intention of the Executive Board, in  drawing up its report on the remodelling of Unesco's  future programme, had been to raise questions,  define problems, and point to possible solutions, The  Board had sought above all to provoke thought amongst  the delegates, leading perhaps to positive conclusions.  Whatever the outcome of the debate, Mr. Maheu  believed that tne changes in ideas and policy desired  by the Board were already coming about,
(8) The Egyptian delegate had been right in saying  that the new structure of the programme was only a  beginning. In the eyes of the Director-General and  the Executive Board, the change in presentation was  certainly not the most important aspect of the re-  modelling of the programme. It had been adopted  merely as the best approach to the problem.
(9) On the other hand, Mr. Maheu agreed with the  Canadian delegate that 1t might prove desirable to  adopt a different plan, and above all, different word-  ing. The terms used were the outcome of lengthy  discussions in theBoard, but they were certainly not  the only possible ones, nor necessarily the besi, He  thought, however, that the Committee should not, in  its turn, become involved in a long debate on a  question of secondary importance, Nor was the  Canadian delegate wrong in thinking that there was no  basic difference between planned activities and acti-  vities undertaken at the request of Member States,  Mr. Maheu again hoped that problems of mere  presentation would not blind the delegates to basic  questions of substance.
(10) The ideas set out in the document under consi-  deration were not perhaps entirely original, but tney  nevertheless raised new problems. Carried to ex-  tremes, they might involve considerable, even radical  transformations for Unesco. Mr. Maheu did not  believe, however, that the Executive Board wanted  such basic changes introduced immediately.
(11) The document drawn up by the Executive Board  raised three problems of prime importance: the  structure of the programme, admimstrative reorga-  nization, and Unesco's relations with Member States.
(12) Several delegates had spoken on the structure of  the programme, giving their views on its balance and  the relations that should exist between its different  parts. Mr. Maheu considered that the two major  sections of the programme should be balanced.  Nothing would be more risky than to try to develop  one at the expense of theother. The Chairman of the  Executive Board had given details regarding the  division of appropriations between the two halves of  the programme in the budget for 1955-56. Henceforth,  it was for the Conference to decide whether 1t intended  to change those percentages or leave tlicm as they were.  - 789 -   vi-23  But it would be a catastrophe if that division took on  political significance and if the point cf balance were  determined by the relative importance of votes of  any given group of States. Mr. Maheu, therefore,  felt bound to ask each delegation to rise above its  particular national interests and ways of thought and  to consider the balance of the programme from an  international and universal point of view.
(13) In the opinion of the Direcior-General, it was  not true that the first part of the programme con-  cerned only the industrialized countries, and the  second part only the underdeveloped countries.
(14) The underdeveloped countries had as much need  as the others of international intellectual co-  operation. It was in their interests to watch it  expand through Unesco's efforts and to take an  increasingly active part init. Nor, on the other  hand, was any country so advanced that it could not  profit from the collaboration of all Unesco's Member  States. The idea of assistance to Member States  included all the countries belonging to Unesco, what-  ever their degree of development. Therefore, no  political significance should be attached to the  division of the programme into two parts. They were  inseparable, and the second could not operate unless  it mobilized systematic co-operation in the efforts  made under the first part. Similarly, that first part  would be useless if it were to benefit only a few  specialists and international intellectual co-operation  were not employed for the execution of practical  projects.
(15) Unesco's action could, moreover, take different  forms. For the carrying out of some projects a  whole series of methods of action might be employed  from international intellectual co-operation via  planned activities to technical aid to Member States.
(16) If a revised programme were to be prepared for
1957-58, the Director-General would certainly have  to face a problem of administrative reorganization. It  was important for thz Conference to realize what  administrative repercussions its decisions might  have. The Director-General considered, however,  that the Conference could not expect him as yet to  give it a definite answer as to the nature of those  repercussions. He could not study them until he had  received general directives from the Conference, but  he thought that it would be illogical to allow them to  become a determining factor in taking decisions on  future programmes.
(17) That being the case, Mr, Maheu could not  answer the questions put by the delegates of Belgium  and France. He could, however, foresee two pos-  sibilities. The concentration of the programme  might be operated in respect of one particular field,  such as fundamental education, for instance. Funda-  mental education was a field, not a project, and the  two concepts should not be confused. The Committee  itself had singled out the various fundamental educa-  tion projects in order to obtain an overall view of  them. It was a conception of concentration according  to which it would simply be a question of co-ordinating  the activities of the various departments within one  field - and that could be done hy the Office of the  Director-General. That was the type of concentration  foreseen in the draft programme and budget for 1955-
56. In it there were specialized departments,  separate but not isolated, and a system of    ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  co-ordinating their activities administratively in  given fields.
(18) The Conference might, however, wish to go a  step further and consider that the concentration of the  programme should take the form of joint projects in  which different disciplines co-operated, In that case,  the problem would be how to devise a suitable system  of administration. If, for example, 1t were decided  to carry out a fundamental education project in a  certain place for a certain length of time, it would  mean forming a team of specialists of several disci-  plines. That was not an entirely new 1dea and the  Director-General was quite ready to put it into  practice, but he would not venture on that course un-  less the Conference made it clear that in some cases  at least it adopted that stricter conception of concen-  tration - a concentration by integration and not merely  by co-ordination.
(19) There was no reason to suppose that such a  system would raise major difficulties. There was  some mistaken fear that new administrative functions,  grafted on to the present administrative structure,  would result in a complicated and top heavy system,  On the contrary, if new functions were introduced,the  existing structure might well be lightened. The  Director-General thought that the administration  should be subordinate to the programme and modelled  upon it. In consequence, administrative problems  should not constitute essential factors in discussing  the remodelling of the programme.
(20) The big projects already mentioned should relate  to problems and not to fields. An attempt would be  made, for example, to carry out some practical pro-  Ject in fundameuial education, rather than to improve  fundamental education in general. There was nothing  to prevent such planned activities from being under-  taken. In several countries, in addition to mimistries  specializing in given disciplines, administrative  bodies had been set up to implement co-ordinated  plans calling for inter-ministerial co-operation,  Nothing prevented the same system in an International  agency.
(21) The aim of such projects was to achieve practical  results, that is, to change the situation of a Member  State in one particular respect. Here the third big  problem arose, namely that of Unesco's relations  with Member States. More concrete action by Unesco  was necessary if such results were to be achieved. At  present, Unesco acted largely in an indirect way,  through the general progress of education, science  and culture.
(22) True, several delegates had rightly warned the  Committee against expecting too much from direct aid.  The Organization should aim at making well-considered  and realistic decisions, taking account of the wishes  and means of Member States, It would be wrong to  think that the practical problems of Member States  could be solved by big projects undertaken by Unesco  alone. The Organization had neither the constitutional  authority nor the necessary resources. The Confer-  ence 's faith in voluntary contributions, expressed at  an earlier session, had turned out to be misplaced,  and Unesco's budget would never be large enough to  allow for the implementation of big projects financed  solely by the Organization.
(23) However, as certain delegates had already  pointed out, some Member States were carrying out  - 780 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON  assistance programmes on a very substantial scale.  If they decided to co-ordinate those programmes with  Unesco's activities, enormous progress would be  achieved. Thus, Unesco's programme would affect  not only experts and intellectual leaders, but would  combine with action taken by governments, and  Unesco would be able to mobilize available resources  for specific purposes and achieve practical results.  Such a change in Unesco's methods of work seemed as  necessary as the revisiun of the programme and the  reorganization of the Secretariat.
(24) The CHAIRMAN thanked ihe Assistant Director-  General for his admirable statement, which he thought  provided a tra.sition from the morning's debate to  the reaching of conclusions. He suggested that the  Committee should proceed to an examination, section  by section, of document 8C/PRG/i3 and, when that  had been completed, consider the elements for  inclusion in its report,
(25) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) pointed out that, when  he had voiced certain objections on behalf of his  delegation, he had had no intention of denying that it  was important to meet the needs of Member States, If  the Chairman of the Executive Board estimated that  special activities already took up the major part of  the budget (67.5%), it seemed rash to recommend in  paragraph 62 of document 8C/PRG/13 "that, in  future, a greater part of the ordinary budget be set  aside to provide such services to Member States",  and in paragraph 68 to hope "that the major part of  the Organization's resources and energies will be  devoted to the special activities”,
(26) The CHAIRMAN then opened discussion of the  different paragraphs of document 8C/PRG/13,  Structure of the programnme: paragraphs 11-15
(27) Mr. ABDEL.-RAHMAN (Egypt) referred to the  remarks he had made earlier on this section (cf.
8C/BUD/SR. 22).
(28) No further comments.  Order of the programme: paragraphs 16-22
(29) No comments.  General Activities: paragraphs 23-36
(30) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) referred to the  remarks he had made earlier with regard to sub-  section B of this section (cf. 8C/BUD/SR.22).
(31) No further comments.  Special activities: paragraphs 37-43
(32) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) asked how the  criteria were to be settled for the division of the  programme into two parts,
(33) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive  Board) replied that the General Conference would  decide the first category of special activities, and  PROGRAMME AND BUDGET     VI-23  plans of work would be arranged with the Member  States involved. With regard to the second category  of special activities, llember States would ask for an  activity to be undertaken and the General Conference  would decide on the allocation of funds.
(34) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) thought that the special  activities should be planned and carried out on a  regional basis, so that they would benefit, not one  country alone, but a whole region; that remark  applied alike to activities requested by Member States  and to those initiated by the Secretariat. The regwon-  al offices could play an important part in that respect,  Technical aid should not be the responsibility of  Unesco alone: for every sum contributed by the Or-  ganization, a corresponding amount should be paid by  the Member States or States benefiting from the  project. Thus, 1f such activities were organized on  a regional basis, it would be much easier to finance  them, because many Member States would be helping  to carry them out.
(35) Mr. JUNANKAR (India), referring to the em-  phasis which the delegate of Mexico had put on the  fact that the programme should serve the general  needs of the various regions, thought that it was  desirable to mention that special activities were  directed to broad targets. Unesco should concentrate  on reaching those targets,
(36) Mr COWELL (United Kingdom) w..ught that this  section was weak, because no examples were given as  to the nature of the special activities referred to. The  Executive Board had left the decisions to the General  Conference and, in lis opinion, it would be extremely  difficult for the General Conference to make those  decisions, He thought the matter of sufficient im-  portance to sugges! the setting up of a working party  to study the problem: more carefully. Unless a  careful study were made, the General Conference  would make vague decisions which would not provide  sufficient guidance to the Director-General in planning  the programme for 1957-58,
(37) Mr. LEE (United States of America) agreed with  the remarks made by the delegate of the United  Kingdom. He doubted whether the General Confer-  ence was competent to provide sufficiently concrete  guidance for the Director-General. Referring to the  problem of regionalism, he recalled that a working  party had been set up to study the problems arising  out of decentralization. The Committee should de-  cide what it wanted. Regionalism covered some of  the problems which had arisen but not all of them. The  arid zone scheme, for example, was a special project  which dealt with problems met in many areas. Flexi-  bility was essential. He asked whether the Committee  was prepared to set up a procedure for selecting the  activities for Section II of the programme and to set  up a time-table for carrying out those activities.
(38) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) said  that the difference between activities undertaken on  Unesco's initiative and those undertaken at the re-  quest of Member States might be illustrated by an  example. For five years Unesco had been carrying  out a pilot project concerning the Delhi Public Library,  - 791 -   VI-23 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON  with the consent and co-operation of the Indian Govern  ment. That experiment had been undertaken at  Unesco's proposal, while the Organization had re-  ceived requests from several Member States for help  in developing ‘heir public libraries.
(39) With regard to the Mexican delegate's sugges-  tions, Mr. Maheu did not think it essential to take  the criterion of regionalism as a basis in defining  activities undertaken on Unesco's initiative, It would  even be regrettable if that were the sole criterion.  Someumes Unesco attacked universal problems -  cancer, for example - and 1f regional projects only  were to be retained, many activities would have to be  eliminated, especially in the scientific field. Besides,  certain Member States were as large as whole regions  so that a project undertaken there on a national scale  would be typical enough to have a regional interest  and to be transposed to other countries of the same  category.
(40) The Secretariat preferred the 1dea of category  of country rather than of region. There were pro-  blems common to countries of different regions -  arid zone problems, for instance. It might happen  that countries belonging to a certain category from  the point of view of a particular problem were situa-  ted in the same region, but that was not a general or  necessary rule.
(41) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) thought there was some  misunderstanding of the meaning of "regional ap-  proach", No universal problem could be localized  and no local problem could be made universal, It  was impossible to deal with all problems on a re-  gional basis. Unesco's programme emphasized the  activities suitable for and important to particular  regions, and should secure a balance between the  special activities and a suitable programme in the  various parts of the world. A regional programme  need not necessarily meet the requirements of the  region as such, as long as it implemented the overall  aspirations of the region. The implementation of a  project In any region should not detract from the  universality of the problem which had necessitated its  undertaking.
(42) Mr. PANNETON (Canada) had been keenly in-  terested by the remarks of the delegate of India, but  h. thought it best not to generalize too much. Even  examples might be misleading; cancer was perhaps  an unfortunate choice, It was obvious that a problem  like that of the arid zones was of no interest whatever  to certain countries and regions. On the other hand,  Mr. Panneton noticed that fairly detailed explanations  were given on the subject of general activities (para-  graphs 23 et seq.), whereas there was very little  information on special activities. He was afraid that  the Conference might blame the Committee for having  failed to give the necessary details on that point.
(43) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) wished to clarify his  earlier remarks. As far as activities requested by  Member States were concerned, he was of opinion  that priority should be given to those of benefit to  severai Member States. He agreed with the remarks  made by the Assistant Direct r-General, because it  was obvious that there were »rojects, such as those  relating to cancer and oceanography, which could not  PROGRAMME     AND BUDGET  considered regional ones. Unesco's funds were  limited and they should be spent, as far as possible,  on projects from which several Member States would  benefit, Moreover, in that way, international  co-operativn would be advanced.
(44) The CHAIRMAN wondered whether it would be  proper to inc lude examples in the report. The draft  had originally included examples and the Executive  Board had decided to delete them. If the Committee  thought that it was adv.sable to include examples, now  was the time to do so.
(45) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) thought that  only a body representative of all the Member States  was competent to deal with the plan contemplated in  document 8C/PRG/13, He proposed that the Com-  mittee should in its report to the Programme Com-  mission express its opinion that the General Conference  should indicate to the Director-General, with a rode],  how the programme should work and suggest activi-  ties which should be undertaken. The Committee  should point out to the Programme Comint sion the  need for amplification of its discussion.
(46) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) thought that the  guiding principle for clarification by the General  Conference should be to see what was meant by the  two categories of special activities. Once that was  clarified, it would be easier to settle on criteria.
(47) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  pointed out that there was in each chapter of the draft  programme a clear distinction between the two main  sections. In Section II, moreover, activities under  the heading of "Technical Aid to Member States" were  always covered by a special resolution,  Special activities initiated by the Organization:  paragraphs 44-47
(48) No comments,  Need for progressive concentration on major projects:  paragraphs 48-60
(49) No comments.
(50) The CHAIRMAN thought that, if the Committee  agreed to recommend this document to the General  Conference, 1t would be appropriate to mention  various points brought out in the discussion. In the  first place, the Committee conceived the projects,  not as specialized, but as continuing through the  programme. Secondly, such projects should allow  for specific planning by the Secretariat with regard  to timing, place and results. Thirdly, such projects  should be of a nature to permit the achieving of  practical results within a given time in a given area,  The Committee would have to decide to what extent it  should help the Programme Commission in outlining  the procedure whereby the contemplated subjects  were to be included in the programme for 1957-58.  The Committee could not do that itself, but  could suggest that the Programme Commission  undertake the work or refer it back to the  Committee after discussion or that a special  - 792 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON  working party be set
1avolved.  up to study the problems
(51) Mr. CABOUAT (France) thought it would be  worth mentioning In the Committee's report that  attention had been paid to the choice of big projects.  He did not think it necessary, however, for the Com-  mittee to make any definite suggestion to the General  Conference on that point, The Committee was too  small a body, and its proposals might incur the  disapproval of delegations not represented on it.
(52) With regard to paragraphs 53, 57 and 60 of the  document, it would perhaps be good to emphasize the  Committee's interest in the possibility of establish-  ing à United Nations Educational Development Fund.  The existence of such a fund would certainly solve  many problems, The financial limits imposed on the  Organization should, however, be made perfectly clear.
(53) The CHAIRMAN reminded the meeting that no  decision had been taken on that subject (see
8C/BUD/SR,21).
(54) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) thou it that the sugges-  tion made by the French delegate - that the attention  of the Programme Commission should be drawn to  the United Nations Education Fund and other funds -  was interesting and he thought that reference might  also be made to the assistance some Member States  had extended to other countries. In his opinion,  while such assistance was useful, assistance through  the United Nations was preferable, as no conditions  would be attached, and there would be no political
1ssues raised. He hoped that, in the future, inter-  national organizations would take over increasingly  the task of channelling international assistance and  that Unesco would be able to draw on international  funds for its requirements.
(55) Mr. LEE (United States of America) had hoped  that the question of financing would not be raised be-  cause the Committee was not in a position to do much  about 1t. He suggested that the Committee could  approve the report as contained in document 8C/PRG/13  irrespective of whether there was an increase in funds  or not and could make a decision on what to report to  the Programme and Administrative Commissions,  He disagreed with the delegate of France that recom-  mendations should be made as to how the Commis-  sions should proceed. He proposed that the  Committee report on the following lines:  "The Advisory Committee has examined the report  of the Executive Board on the remodelling of the fu-  ture programme (document 8C/PRG/13). The Commit-  tee wishes to commend the spirit of the report,  approve the direction of the changes there proposed,  and recommend to the Commissions of the Conference  that they formulate and adopt the necessary measures  to implement the principles of the report at the ear-  liest possible date. The Committee recommends  that the Commissions, either through working parties  of their own or through the Advisory Committee,  establish procedures, criteria and schedules whereby  major projects can be selected. The Committee  further recommends that,using the same mechanism,  the Commissions formulate appropriate instructions  to the Director-General in order that he may draw up    PROGKAMME AND BUDGET V1-23  definite plans In 1955-55. Finally, in the saine way,  the Commissions should prepare budget and program-  me instructions which will authorize the Direetor-  General to present à remodelled programme for
(56) He thought that, by making such a recommenda-  tion, the Committee would not only express the fact  that the report had been examined and approved in  general terms, but would incicate that it was aware of  problems with regard to the selection and planning of  projects which it was not competent to decide,
(57) The CHAIRMAN thanked tue delepzie of the  United States of America for his helpful suggestion  and suggested that, in its report, the Committee could  perhaps reproduce the general discussion which had  taken place, giving an indication of what 1t considered  should be the criteria for selecting projects and ending  up along the lines proposed by the delegate of the  United States of America.
(58) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) supported the  plan of action proposed by the Chairman. The Com-  mittee was endorsing the main principles of the  document without endorsing every detail it contained.  He asked whether it would be possible for the  Committee to hold another meeting to consider its  report,  Paragraphs 62 and 68
(59) Mr. CABOUAT (France) wanted particularly to  to back to paragraphs 62 and 68, on which several  delegates had spoken. He recalled that Mr. Maheu  had insisted on the fundamental unity of the two broad  categories of activities, while pointing out the danger  of setting one up against the other. The two para-  graphs in question might, however, cause some  confusion, Mr. Cabouat thought that it would be  d:.ficult to recommend a priori that the funds reserved  for the second category should always be appreciably  larger than those reserved for the first. The per-  centages given were valid for the budget as a whole,  but, when examining the programme in detail projects  might be found requiring more than one-third of the  funds for permanent services. It was, therefore,  impossible to recommend "that, in future, a greater  parc of the ordinary budget be set aside" for activities  of the second category. It would be better to leave 1t  to ‘he Director-General to decide what proportion to  allow in each particular case.
(60) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) suggested that the last  sentence of paragraph 62 be amended as follows:  " recommends that, in future, larger sums be  set aside to provide such services to Member States",
(61) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) thought that the  Committee should endorse the contents of the  document in general terms. It was not competent to  discuss it in detail.
(62) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive  Board) said that the Executive Board had been of the  same opinion, He pointed out that the proportional  sum was not definite. He hoped, however, that the  continuing activities would not require more money,  - 793 -   VI-23 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON  and that the special activities would benefit from any  money left over, If the proportion were altered,  the effect would be to take away money from the  special activities.
(63) Mr. LEE (United States of America) remarked  that the figures in the report reflected the situation in
1955-56. If that proportion were accepted, the  figures would guide the Director-General in planmng  the programme for 1857-58, In his opinion, the  continuing activities would not suffer much unless  more stringent proportions were adopted, He would  agree to rccommend the report to the General  Conference in general terms.
(64) Mr.SOMMERFELT(Norway)supported the Belgian  proposal. By inserting a condition, it would mean that,  if the budget were increased, then the greater part of  the increase would be used for special activities.
(65) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) pointed out that special  activities did not necessarily mean aid to Member  States, The Chairman cf the Executive Board had  said that only 10% of the total budget was used for  that purpose. He thought that the paragraphs were  mild and would involve no change.
(66) Mr.MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) stated  that the Director-General at present inte; preted the  sentence to mean that the buaget of Section 1 would be sta-  bilized at the existing level, if the budget could be in-  creased any additional funds would be allotted to Section  II, whether for activities undertaken on Unesco's  initiative, or for technical aid to Member States,
(67) Mr.ABDEL-RAhRMAN (Egypt) asked whether  the Committee foresaw no chang2s in continuing  activities, but only for special activities. Had the  Committee decided that this division should be made?
(68) The CHAIRMAN replied that the Committee  agreed that Unesco's programme for special activities  should have augmented resources.
(69) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) did not think that  the Committee was implying that Section I of the  programme should be fixed. If there were a cut in  the budget, did the Committee intend that the cut  should be spread over the two Sections?
(70) Sir Ronald ADAM(Chairman of tbe Executive Board  said that the Board had been anxious that as little  money as possible should be spent inside Unesco and as  much as possible on outside activities in the future.
(71) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) pointed out that,  if continuing activities diminished, money would be  set free. If the Belgian proposal were adopted,  Unesco world be forced to spend that rnoney on  similar activities, and not on special activities.
(72) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) explained that the pur-  pose of his amendment, which applied to the pro-  gramme for 1957-58, was to avoid & reduction in  general activities in favour of special activities, and  at the same time to clarify the remarks made by the  Chairman of the Executive Board.    PROGRAMME AND BUDGET
(73) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) pointed out that the Com-  mittee was considering remodelling the programme,  and it must, therefore, decide to devote more money  to Section II. At the present stage, 10% of the total  budget was being used in direct aid to Member States  and it had been felt that Unesco should spend more,  directly andindirectly, on Member States, The  Belgian amendment would destroy the purpose for  which the programme was being remodelled,
(74) Mr.MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) wished  to point out that the whole purpose of Section II of the pru-  gramme, which represented 67.5% of the budget, was to  provide services to Member States. To take an example,
1t was obvious that the Delhi Public Library project,  though initiated by Unesco, was nevertheless to India's ad-  vantage. The aforesaid 10% merely represented activities  undertaken at the request of Member States,
(75) Mr.LEE (United States of America)remarked that  the Committee was not discussing a constitutional docu-  ment but a report,and suggested that the spirit of the re-  port was such that no one would wish tocripple the continu  ing activities in such a way that aid to Member States would  be affected. He was prepared to leave the text as it stood,
(76) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt; supported the United  States delegate. He thought that, once the Belgian  amendment was accepted, the figures contained in the  report would be fixed.It was important to leave thuse  figures flexible in order to have freedom of action,
(77) Mr. PANNE TON (Canada) thought that the text  under discussion merely drew attention to the present  state of affairs.
(78) Mr. CABOUAT(France)observad that, according to  à previous statement by the Director-General, the pre-  sent continuing services were in a position to develop  special activities without be1.1g expanded. The French  delegation was against including any idea of stabilizing  the permanent services in the directives which the Con-  ference was to give the Director-General; his hands  should not be tied bv placing, in advance, a limit on the  funds to be experded for the permanent services,
(79) With regard to paragraph 62, the French dele-  gation hoped that the distinction between appropriations  for Section Icf the programme and those for Section II  would not be drawn too sharply.
(80) The CI{AIRMAN put the amendment of the dele-  gate of Selgium, seconded by Mr, SOMMERFELT  (Norway), to the vote.
(81) The motion was rejected by 8 votes to 3, with
1 abstention,
(82) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) suggested that,  after the Director-General had remodelled the pro-  gramme, improvements in the methods of implementing  it should be studied.
(83) The CHAIRMAN asked whether Mr. Abdel-Rahman  would raise this matter inthe Programme Commission,  as that Commission was in a position to give directives.  The meeting rose at 6.10 p.m.  - 704 -