5. The need for more effort to  promote public understanding of, appreciation  of, and participation in Unesco's  work.  NINTH
29 Novembe  COMMITTEE ON REPORTS OF MEMBER STATES
(65) The Committee agreed to include tne foregoing  five suggestions in its report.  The meeting rose at 6.0 p.m.  MEETING  r 1954 at 3.30p.m.  Chairman : Mr. AL-HANI (Iraq)
(1) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL regretted that he had  not been able to attend all the meetings of the  Committee. He greatly appreciated its work and  in particular approved the general trend of the  conclusions it had reached. Since a new tendency  of the Organization was to pay greater attention to  the needs and activities of Member States, the  reports they submitted would acquire greater  importance. Member States, he hoped, would take  still more care in preparing them and he assured  the Committee that the Secretariat would give them  the inost detailed and thorough consideration.  ITEM 10.4 OF REVISED AGENDA: REPORT TO THE GENERAL  CONFERENCE (document 8C/REP/1 (prov.)) (continued)
(2) The CHAIRMAN invited the Committee to  consider its draft final report point by point:  Study of the Reports submitted for 1952 and 1953
(3) This section of the report was approved without  comment, except that it was recommended to  include in a footnote the list of the 58 Member States  having submitted reports.  Conclusions and Recommendations of the Committee
1. Form and contents of future reports
(4) Miss BISHOP (United Kingdom) feared that  there might be some overlapping between Section
2 and Annex II.
(5) Mrs. MALTERRE (Secretary of the Committee)  did not think Annex II overlapped with Section 2,  The latter was intended to contain general  information on the implementation of the programme  resolutions as a whole, while Annex II would deal  with only a few specific points.
2. Recommendations concerning the work of  Member States
(6) Approved.
3. Procedure for the study of future reports
(7) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  expressed a wish to submit a revised text for the  final paragraph of the draft resolution contained in  the Committee's report, which would have a bearing  on paragraph (a) of the third part of the report, He  therefore proposed that the Committee consider  first paragraphs (b), (c) and (d), and return to  paragraph (a) after approval of the text of the  draft resolution,
(8) Agreed.  Paragraph (b)
(9) Mr. HONG HOEUNG DOEUNG (Cambodia) found  the phrase "allocating, in future, sufficient funds",  a trifle vague and suggested replacing "sufficient"
(10) Mrs. MALTERRE (Secretary of the Committee)  explained that for the current year the funds were  rather too small but an increase of only some  -$1, 000 for the two coming years would suffice to  overcome the difficulties.
(11) Mr. WIDDOWSON (Union of South Africa)  thought it would be necessary to justify the request  for more funds by pointing out, for example, that  with the entry into the Organization of new States  the number of reports being submitted was steadily  increasing.
(12) Mr. HAZOUME (Rapporteur) recalled that the  Committee was not empowered to fix a figure for  increased appropriations, but it could stress the  need for such an increase.
(13) He therefore suggested that paragraph (b) be  completed by a phrase to the effect that, in  consequence of the constant increase in membership,  and, consequently, of the total volume of reports  submitted and costs of publication, the attention of  the General Conference should be drawn to the need  for adjusting the amount allotted under that head.   (14) That proposal was approved.  - 924 -   COMMITTEE ON REPORTS OF MEMBER 6TATES X-9  Paragraphs (c) and (d)
(15) Approved.  Draft Resolution
(16) The four first paragraphs were approved.  Fifth paragraph
(17) Mr. HONG HOEUNG DOEUNG (Cambodia)  proposed that the word "urges’’ be substituted for  "requests, and Miss BISHOP (United Kingdom)  proposed that "strictly" be added before "to observe".
(18) With those amendments the fifth paragraph  was approved.  Sixth paragraph
(19) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  said that the Working Party on Decentralization had  completed its work and had adopted a report. In  that report it called on the Director-General and the  Executive Board to carry out a comprehensive study  of the methods of co-operation between the Organi -  zation and the Member States and of the possible  ways of developing it, such a study to be based on a  thorough examination of the work of the National  Commissions. If that proposal were approved by  the Commission on Programme and Budget, the  Committee, he thought, should be mole specific in  the final paragraph of its resolution. He therefore  proposed that the text of the sixth paragraph of the  draft resolution be replaced by the following:  "Resolves that the Committee be reconstituted  for the next session of the General Conference on a  broader basis and with enlarged responsibility.  The new Committee, which shal’ consist of 15  members to be elected at the present session, shall  consider the reports of the Member States and the  study by the Director-General of the relationships  between the Organization and the Member States.  In the light of this examination, it shall make  recommendations
(1) On the form and content of future reports and
(2) On the further development of the participation  of Member States in the planning and execution of the  Unesco programme. "
(20) Mr. HONG HOEUNG DOEUNG (Cambodia) said  that in the last paragraph he would prefer to say    "on the way in which Member States participated ..."  instead of "on the further development of the  participation of Member States in".
(21) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  pointed out that his amendment was concerned with  the final act of the Committee on Reports of Member  States at the ninth session of the General Conference,  when, after considering the work of the Member  States, it would be preparing final recommendations  for their fuller participation in the planning and  execution of the Organization's programme.
(22) Mr. HONG HOEUNG DOEUNG (Cambodia®  thought that the two basic ideas in the last  paragraph should be brought out quite clearly, viz.
(1) How Member States had effectively participated  in framing and executing the programme;
(2) How they should participate in future.
(23) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  agreed that the proposal of the representative of  Cambodia improved the amendment he had submitted  and made it clearer.
(24) The CHAIRMAN proposed that the Committee  approve the text of the last paragraph of the draft  resolution as submitted by the United States  representative and amended by the representative  of Cambodia.
(25) He also proposed that the Committee approve  paragraph (a) under the heading "3. Procedure for  the Study of Future Reports’, subject to the  Secretariat's making the slight alterations consequent  upon the adoption of the final text of the last  paragraph of the draft resolution.
(27) Subject to drafting changes to be made by the  Secretariat, the draft final report was unanimously  approved.
(28) Mr. HAZOUME (Rapporteur) undertook, when  presenting the final report to the General Conference,  to make no changes except those just approved,  though he would include in the introduction a few  personal words of thanks to the Government and  people of Uruguay for their hospitality.  The meeting rose at 4.45 p.m.  - 925 -