PROGRAMME AND  project, “he wos not very pleased with the work plans  as they stood.
(166) Paragraphs 172-178 were adopted,  (B) Promotion of adu.t education through the arts  {paragraphs 179-181)
(167) The Indian delegation having agreed to submit  its draft resolution to the Secretariat in the form of    BUDGET COMMISSION IV-25  a directive, the section was adopted without  discussion.  (C) Technical aid to Member States (paragraphs
(168) Adopted without discussion.  The meeting rose at 7 p.m.  TWENTY - FIFTH MEETING
2 December 1954 at 9,30 p.m.  Chairman: Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland)  later M. HOPE (Rapporteur) (United States of America)
(1) The CHAIRMAN, noting that there was no quorum,  suspended the meeting for ten minutes.
(2) When the meeting had reassembled, the Chair-  man suggested that, as he would be unable to remain  for the whole meeting, and as the three Vice-  Chairmen were detained elsewhere, the Rapporteur  be invited, in accordance with the rules, to preside  over the debates.
(3) Agreed.  Mr. Hope, Rapporteur, took the Chair.)  ITEM 8.4.4 OF REVISED AGENDA : CULTURAL ACTIVITIES  (continued)  Project 4.33: Contribution to fundamental education  (paragraphs 186-201)
(4) Mr. MUJEEB (India) observed that, if the project  for the planning and production of reading material  for new literates were adopted, it would mean  immediate and enormous benefit for millions of  people. With regard to paragraphs 189 and 190, the  Indian delegation was of opinion that it would be better  if, in the first place, the Member States and National  Commissions concerned were asked to collect, study.  and evaluate all the material that already existed, and  examine the methods used in the production of  literature for new literates and for its assessment  through field workers. Then Unesco should organize  regional conferences, with its experts as conveners,  to make a study of the material and the reports of  Member States, and to compare methods and  experience. The findings of those conferences would  serve as a basis for further action by Member States,  in consultation and collaboration with Unesco.
(5) Referring to paragraphs 191-199, the delegate of  India thought that the proposal that Unesco should  prepare a set of 24 books to form a nucleus of a series  - 439 -     of reading material for new literates was most  attractive. Experience tn India, however, suggested  that it would be advisable to have a larger number of  books, of 16 pages on an average, and the Director-  General might consider whether it would be possible  to have 50 books instead of 24 within the proposed  budget. The books should be written in the language  of the people for whom they were meant or ina  language whose idiom was not too different,
(6) With regard to the distribution of the books  referred to in paragraph 197, it would be better if  Unesco specified the subjects, the number and type  of illustrations for each book and the quality of the  printing, and offered to pay a reasonable percentage  of the cost to the Member States concerned, Arrange-  ments along those lines had been made by the Delhi  public library in India for the 25 booklets produced  by it.
(7) In preparing reading material for new literates,  the cost of production was of great importance. The  Indian delegation therefore especially welcomed the  proposal of assistance to Member States 1n printing  and distribution facilities, Further, it would suggest  that the offer of prizes made in paragraph 187 should  be made both to individuals and to organizations  engaged in literacy work, and that each organization  should be asked, when it sent in its scripts, to name  the person or persons to whom the preparation of the  scripts was entrusted and to whom it would give the  travelling fellowship or prize if its scripts were  considered the best.
(8) Mr. CHARYAVIBHAJ (Thailand) had read the  project with great interest and was sure that it would  be very much appreciated by the Member States  concerned. In his delegation's view, the chief  problem was the choice of experts, and the greatest  care should be taken in selecting them.
(9) With regard to choice of subjects, he suggested  the addition of very elementary textbooks on such  sub jects as farming, poultry-keeping etc., since   IV-25 PROGRAMME AND  new literates would first be interested in their  vocations and the things which they saw around them.  Immediate interest would lead to further interest  in scientific and cultural subjects.
(10) In conclusion, the delegate of Thailand agreed  with the delegate of India that the Member States  and National Commissions concerned should be  consulted before any books were produced. Subject  to those comments, he moved approval of the budget  estimates 1n paragraph 201.
(11) Mr. HUZAYIN (Egypt) strongly supported the  project and the motion to approve the budget  estimates. Adding to the points already raised by  the delegates of India and Thailand, he pointed out  that, although the project was a new one for Unesco,  it was an old one for certain countries which had  already acquired a great deal of experience in the  field of fundamental education, Unesco's Arab States  Furdamental Education Centre (ASFEC) existed in  Egypt, but there were also a great many national  projects of the same kind. Strenuous efforts were  being made, for example, to produce primers. He  therefore suggested that Unesco make full use of the  experience acquired by those working in the field.  A number of non-governmental organizations would  certainly wish to participate in the project.
(12) As regarded experts, 1t was essential to have  experts who spoke the language of the people con-  cerned and had the cultural background of that  language.
(13) With regard to choice of subjects, they should  be in conformity with the cultural pattern of the area.
(14) In conclusion, the delegate of Egypt considered  the project to be worthy of full support and hoped  that it would be approved by the General Confzren-e  unanimously.
(15) Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) had two points to  raise. Firstly, he hoped that in the proposed Unesco  experiment, which would have advantages over most  national projects, some study would be made of the  layout of books, types of pictures and forms of print.  Secondly, among the excellent subjects listed, he  hoped that some literature, other than purely  utilitarian literature, would be included. People  should be taught to read for their amusement. Ir his  own experience, a story of tribal history had sold’  far better than the usual didactic material. New  literates might be introduced, for example, to  Plato's Republic.
(16) Mr. BRICHET (France) stated that his delega-  tion approved the principle embodied in resolution
4.33 and would vote for the proposed financial  provisions.
(17) He felt doubtful, however, about the usefulness  of the procedure proposed in paragraph 189. He  urged that National Commissions and the administra-  tive authorities of the States concerned be more  closely associated with Unesco's activities in that  field.
(18) Mr. AL-HILLI (Iraq) explained that he had  worked on the project with Unesco experts in 1951,  when the Organization had carried out a three months"  experimental project in Egypt and the Dujaila project  - 440 -     BUDGET COMMISSION  in Iraq, lasting two months and twenty days. On  the basis of his experience, he wished to draw  attention to two main points. Firstly new literates  needed primers; secondly, they needed follow-up  materials, including very short books dealing with  various subjects. He hoped that full use would be  made of the material resulting from the 1951  experiments. Iraq would be very happy to transmit  to Unesco the books already produced.
(19) Mr. BERGSTRAESSER (German Federal  Republic) asked the Secretariat what was meant in  paragraph 193 by "world's classics". Secondly, he  wondered if the Secretariat felt that, after only one  year of investigation by experts, the field would  have been sufficiently explored for the project to be  launched.
(20) Mr. BARDALES (Honduras) emphasized the  importanc e of careful preparation of texts designed  for new literates. The persisting lack of suitable  texts for that purpose had already caused some  literacy campaigns to fail. He recommended that the  experiments and achievements of the Education  Section of the Organization of American States be  taken into account. The Public Library which that  Organization had established included three sections:  science, arts and civics. Unesco should not go’  ahead with that part of its programme without having  first examined and profited by experience gained in  American countries.
(21) Mr. ROMANO MUNOZ (Mexico) had been  specially instructed by his Government to say how  interested 1t was in the activities referred to in  paragraph 189. Mexico was carrying out intense  literacy campaigns of its own. All classes of  soclety, including the ordinary people and even  soldiers, were taking part in them. Such campaigns  were suffering from a lack of suitable reading  material. The Literacy Commission, which was an  official government organ, was responsible for the  study of that important problem. Teachers were  afraid that classical texts would be chosen for the  purpose, experience had taught them that the  reading of selections from the classics did not  produce the results desired. He recommended that  Unesco send an expert to Mexico to study that  problem and the experiments in teaching people tc  read and write that were being conducted there.
(22) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural  Activities) said that the Secretariat would do its best to  carry out the suggestions made during the debate.
(23) He noted that there were three suggestions on  which there appeared to be general agreement:
1. Greater account should be taken of the  experience gained by Member States and inter-  governmental organizations and the results which  they had obtained.
2. The contents of books and pamphlets distri-  buted by Unesco should be hased on suggestions  made by the States concerned, instead of being  imposed from outside.
3. The Secretariat should work in close co-  operation with National Commissions and national  or local administrative authorities.   PROGRAMME AND
(24) Mr. Thomas explained that the Secretariat,  realizing that the work plans should be kept fairly  flexible, had already considered the possibility of  basing its activities on those three principles.
(25) In reply to the question raised by the delegate  of the German Federal Republic, Mr. Thomas sug-  gested that the quotation marks before and after  world's classics‘ might be deleted, thus making  the text clearer.
(26) He regretted that he was unable to reply to the  remark of the Mexican delegate concerning trans-  lations of classical works in his country, as the  Secretariat had not as yet acquired much experience  in that field.
(27) Mr. BRANCA (Italy) wished to be assured that  consideration would be given to the propusal made  by his delegation in document 8C/DR/83.
(28) He was somewhat concerned about the word  ‘adaptation’, which suggested to him a summary in  a few pages. He wondered whether that method would  convey the author's thought faithfully and said that he  would prefer ‘adapted presentation” or a similar  expression.
(29) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural  Activities) assured the delegate of Italy that the  Secretariat would take the suggestions made in  document 8C/DR/83 into consideration. He observed  that some of them concerned projects which would  be discussed later.
(30) In connexion with the word "adaptation", there  was no cause for misgiving, for, in the Secretariat's  view, that word had no dishonest implications; it had  entered into current speech and was used by the best  contemporary authors.
(31) Miss BOLLO (Uruguay) thoroughly agreed with  what the Italian delegate had said. The word  "adaptation'' of the world's classics filled her with  horror. The consequences of that process would be  disastrous. Such adaptations were causing great  harm in the theatre, the cinema and in literature.  They gave a wretched impression of the great authors  who had been lights of the world in their several  generations. It was as if the reader were directed  down paths unlit by the true originality and greatness  of the authors.
(32) Mr. VILLALON GALDAMES (Chile) agreed  with the Mexican delegate. He urged that the words  "subject to revision in the light of information to be  gathered in 1955", be given all due importance and,  to that end, asked the Secretariat to consult the  Organization of American States. He was dissatisfied  with the subjects proposed in paragraphs 193-196 as  material for new literates. He recommended that  such texts should bear on the everyday surroundings  of readers. For example health was mentioned, but  there was no reference to nutrition or domestic  and family life. He would prefer such subjects to be  dealt with first, and later there would be time to  pass on to the classics.
(33) The motion of the delegate of Thailand,  recommending approval of the budget estimates in  paragraph 201, was seconded by several delegations.  - 441 -     BUDGET COMMISBION 1V-25  Project 4. 34: Development of libraries (paragraphs
(34) Mr. VILLALON GALDAMES (Chile) proposed  that the paragraphs under resolution 4. 34 be studied  separately when new questions affecting different  parts or areas of the world were discussed. Further,  some speakers might wish to touch upon more than  one of those items and, on that account, they should  be allowed to speak for 5 minutes rather than 3.
(35) Mr. SUZUKI (Japan) asked whether a Japanese  librarian or educator could be included amongst  those taking part in the Seminar on Public Library  Development in Asia.
(36) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) replied that the Secretariat  would take the wish expressed by the Japanese  delegate into consideration.
(37) Paragraphs 203-218 were approved.  Pilot project for the development of public libraries  in Africa (paragraphs 219-223)
(38) Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia) recalled that Miss  Summers, of Unesco's Libraries Division, had  visited West Africa early in 1954. As a result of  her visit, many countries of the area had expressed  interest in having the project established in their  territory.
(39) As Mr. Massaquoi had already pointed out at a  meeting of the Executive Board, the sum of $15, 000  was inadequate for a pilot project designed to meet  the needs of the vast area South of the Sahara. Many  of the countries concerned had expressed a desire to  have travelling library vans to serve rural areas.  He therefore proposed that the budget for the project  be increased in order to enable a real library  network to be established, covering the whole area  South of the Sahara.
(40) Mr. BRICHET (France) announced that France  would forgo Unesco aid in that sphere, in order that  the needs of Liberia might be met.
(41) Mr. WIDDOWSON (Union of South Africa) was  in favour of the project, but considered that, before  undertaking it, the agreement of the authorities  concerned should be obtained. Otherwise, plans  would be unrealistic.
(42) Mr. HUZAYIN (Egypt) observed that the project  not only had intrinsic worth, but would also be of  value to Unesco in bringing it nearer to the great  multitudes in Africa. He agreed with the delegate  of Liberia that the budget estimate was inadequate,  especially if travelling library vans and special  equipment were to be used. He hoped that the sum  would be increased to a figure which would guarantee  the success of the project.
(43) Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) wished that his  delegation could emulate the French delegation's  sacrifice, but that was unfortunately impossible.  However, he was sure that, wherever the project was
1V-25 PROGRAMME AND  held, people would come to see it from other  countries in the region, so that it would have  widespread effects.
(44) Referring to the remark by the delegate of the  Union of South Africa, Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia)  stated that Miss Summers had negotiated with the  respective governments.
(45) Paragraphs 219-223 were approved.  Regional Conference on the Exchange of Publications  in Latin America (paragraphs 224-229)
(46) Mr. VILLALON GA LDAMES (Chile) believed  that everybody considered the regional conference  to be very important. It would not be possible,  however, to organize a suitable exchange of publica-  tions without taking account of past and present  production. He referred to the Unesco Clearing  House for Publications, which dealt with that  question, In his view, such exchanges should be  perfected at the international level before any  attempt was made to improve national services,  International schemes would be hindered and  retarded if Unesco waited until national exchanges  had gained momentum.
(47) Mr. ANGELL (Umited States of America}  observed that, probably as a result of an oversight,  no mention was made of the Orga ization of American  States, which should certainly be asked to participate  in the planning.
(48) Mr. ROMANO MUNOZ (Mexico) informed the  Commission that he was a member of the Depart-  ment of Cultural Activities of the Organization of  American States and that he would be the Rapporteur  of the Congress on the Exchange of Publications to  be held the following March; in that capacity, he  asked if the project in Unesco's programme was to  be associated with that of OAS. He recommended  that the work should be divided between Unesco  and OAS.
(49) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural  Activities) said that the Secretariat would take  account of the comments made by the delegate of  Chile.
(50) With regard to the point raised by the delegates  of the United States of America and Mexico, he  explained that it was an omission on the part of the  Secretariat, which had always intended to co-operate  with the Organization of American States :n  organizing the conference concerned.
(51) Paragraphs 224-229 were unanimously approved.  Development of associated projects(paragraphs 230-243)
(52) Unanimously approved.  Education for librarianship in the Arab States  (paragraphs 244-251)
(53) Mr. HUZAYIN (Egypt) thought that, 1n the  remodelled programme designed to meet the needs  - 442 -     BUDGET COMMISSION  of Member States, the project under consideration  was most timely and appropriate. Libraries played  an important part in linking education with culture  and the project would be very helpful in promoting  the parallel development of education and culture.
(54) Paragraphs 244-251 were unanimously approved.  Paragraphs 252-267
(55) Approved without comment.  Mobile microfilming unit (paragraphs 268-277)
(56) Mr. VILLA LON GALDAMES (Chile) congratu-  lated the Secretariat upon the magnificent way in  which that section of the programme had been  prepared. In Latin American countries, microfilms  had first been used in trade and industry, and later  in libraries, There was wide scope for action.  The rich store of collections held by many nations  should be assembled. As far as Chile was concerned,  it was imperative to microfilm the works of the  great writer José Toribio Medina. It was not easy  to estimate what influence the new technique would  have on the life of peoples and governments, It  would bring the cultural heritage, which had so far  been accessible only to the privileged few, within  range of all those wishing to study it.
(57) Mr. BRANCA (Italy) pointed out that his  country had always considered microfilming as a  very important activity which ought to be developed.
(58) He asked the Secretariat to study the possibility  of forming two or three mobile microfilming units,
(59) Furthermore, he thought that those archives  and libraries most exposed to damage, should be  the first to benefit from the new process.
(60) Paragraphs 268-277 were approved.  Project 4. 35: Development of museums (paragraphs
(61) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commission)  read out the Advisory Committee's recommendation  that the project be placed in Category 1.
(62) Mr. LORENTZ (Poland) stated that his country  was vary much in favour of all projects designed  to encourage the dissemination of culture through  museums and exhibitions, and was prepared to take  an active part in carrying them out. He pointed  out how necessary it was to make museums  accessible to all - workmen and country folk, as  well as intellectuals.
(63) Miss NEFFA (Lebanon) hoped that the projects  included in paragraphs 287-301 would be approved.  Lebanon had taken part in the courses organized in  Athens on the educational rôle of museums; it was  an idea which was gradually penetrating Lebanese  schools. She recommended the conducting of a  campaign on the subject of museums and school  education. The best campaign would certainiy be  one for the proper organization of museums. She  was speaking from personal experience, for Unesco   PROGRAMME AND  had recently organized the Damascus Museum and,  comparing it with other museums in the country,  she had been struck by its superiority. The question  was one of great importance. The speaker then  praised the pilot project for an educational museum,  at present being carried out at Patzcuara, and  expressed the hope that regional seminars, similar  to the one to be held in Patzcuaro in 1956, would be  arranged subsequently in other parts of the world,  such as the Middle East,
(64) Mr. BRICHET (France) drew attention to the  importance of the campaign for museums.
(65) Recalling that, during the Middle Ages, mom-  ments and works of art had been the "poor man's  Bible", he expressed the opinion that, in under-  developed countries at the present time, museums  could become the best means of furthering education  and culture.
(66) The number of visitors to museums increased  daily, but they were a mere handful compared to the  thousands of people who might benefit from them,  or to the huge crowds drawn by sporting and other  events.
(67) The delegate of France considered that action  was imperative, and that it was for Unesco to take  the lead. He emphasized the fact that museums  should be accessible to all, irrespective of social  background.
(68) Mr. ROMANO MUNOZ (Mexico) spoke of the  pilot project for an educational museum at CREFAL,  where a Unesco expert was already working.  Although he believed that the project would be a  success, he thought that, from the budgetary and  admimistrative points of view, it should be kept  separate from the Fundamental Education Centre at  Patzcuaro.
(69) Mr. VILLALON GALDAMES (Chile) agreed with  the Mexican delegate's point of view. His country  thought the pilot project for an educational museum  important, because Unesco techniques were used in  dealing with schools; moreover, Mexico was a  suitable place for the experiment, since its people  were already co-operating in the main Patzcuaro  project, which was of such great interest to Latin  America; lastly, use could be made of experience  gained by CREFAL, which in turn could benefit from  the new project.
(70) Mr. BRANCA (Italy) agreed with the remarks  made by the delegates of France and Mexico.
(71) He asked if a date was to be fixed for Interna-  tional Museums Day. In his view, it might be wisest  to let each government decide upon a date for its  own country, as it could thus be made to coincide  with a national holiday.
(72) Lastly, he thought it desirable that the Interna-  tional Association of Art Critics and the International  Association of the Visual Arts should co-operate in  international exchanges of exhibitions.
(73) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural  Activities) stated that no decision had been taken  about a date for holding an International Museums  Day. The International Council of Museums had  - 443 -     BUDGET COMMISSION IV-25  suggested that it might be held on the tenth anmver-  sary of the first session of the General Conference  of Unesco.
(74) Mr. Thomas welcomed the Italian delegate's  suggestion with regard to the help which certain  associations might give in international exchanges  of exhibitions.
(75) In reply to a question from Mr. ANGELL  (United States of America), the CHAIRMAN pointed  out that the comments of the Advisory Committee on  Programme and Budget were limited to Section E.  It had not commented on the other sections.
(16) Mr. OTERO MENDOZA (Uruguay) commented  on the draft resolution presented by his delegation  (document 8C/DR/46). It would be impossible to  develop musuems without borrowing original works  possessed by many centres and countries. Repro-  ductions were not enough, and could not constitute  a museum's main exhibits. Certain nations were  richly endowed with works of art, and an effort  should be made to put them to good use. The  Executive Board had recommended that the draft  resolution be referred to the Internatonal Council of  Museums; Uruguay, however, wanted it to be  included in Uncsco's programme. He therefore  hoped that the Conference would vote in favour of the  resolution and that the Secretariat would include it in  the Organization's programme for 1957-58.
(77) Mr. BRICHET (France) thought that the  Uruguayan draft resolution was interesting. In his  view, however, the proposal raised a difficult  technical problein and it would be wise to refer it to  the International Council of Museums, as suggested  by the Executive Board.
(78) Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) said that, while  his delegation felt every sympathy with the Uruguayan  proposal, it considered that the General Conference  was not qualified to invite the Director-General to  select the Arts Centre at Montevideo as the first of  such agencies. The United Kingdom delegation  therefore seconded the Executive Board's proposal  to refer the matter to ICOM.
(79) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) said that the  Board, in discussing the project, had felt that the  question was a technical one which should be referred  to a specialized body like ICOM. The Uruguayan  member of the Board, Mr. Secco Ellauri, had  himself seconded the motion to refer the proposal  to ICOM.
(80) It was agreed to refer document 8C/DR/46 to  ICOM.
(81) Sections A, B and C (paragraphs 287-303) were  approved.  D. Seminar workshop on the building of travelling  exhibitions and a mobile museum for South East  Asia (paragraphs 304-311)
(82) Mr. NEVINSON (United Kingdom) stated that the  project had been very carefully considered by his   IV-25 PROGRAMME AND BUDGET COMMISSION  National Commission. Although South East Asia  was thought to be a suitable site, it was felt that the  project needed thinking over. Travelling exhibitions  outside Europe had not yet been studied to any great  extent; the transport of museum exhibits in hot  climates raised problems which required further  study. He therefore proposed that the project be  rearranged, providing for consultations in 1956 before  the mobile museum itself was set up.
(83) Mr. WADIA (India), referring to paragraph 306,  stated that his country would prefer the workshop to  be located in Delhi, rather than at Chandigarh.
(84) The proposal of the United Kingdom delegation  to request the Secretariat to reword section D was  seconded by Mr. WIDDOWSON (Union of South Africa)
(85) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) had noted, among the comments  made by the United Kingdom delegate, an allusion  to museum objects which might deteriorate if  transported to a hot climate.
(86) He explained that the 1dea was not to create a  museum of works of art, but a mobile museum in the  form of a lorry with film and radio apparatus. That  mobile museum would be used for health education  and instruction on the conservation of natural  resources in fundamental education campaigns. A  three weeks' seminar workshop would be organized  for South East Asian experts, in order to teach them  how to build up such exhibitions,
(87) In reply to the delegate of India, Mr. Thomas  said that the question of museums in India would be  studied under another heading.
(88) The CHAIRMAN called for a vote on the  proposal of the delegate of the United Kingdom.
(89) The proposal was rejected by 9 votes to 5, with
9 abstentions.
(80) Section D (paragraphs 304-311) was approved.  E. Technical aid to Member States (paragraphs
(91) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commissivn)  read out the fourth paragraph of the resolution  presented by the Indian delegation in document
8C/DR/17, and observed that the Advisory Committee  had not recommended the adoption of the project,  which would represent a charge of $48, 000 on the  budget.
(92) Mr. WADIA (India) announced that the Indian  delegation withdrew its proposal in document
(93) The budget estimates in paragraph 317 were  approved.  Project 4.41: History of the scientific and cultural  history of mankind (paragraphs 318-325)
(94) Mr. LORENTZ (Poland) stated that his country  was very interested in the project for the publication  - 444 -     of a History of the Scientific and Cultural  Developmnent of Mankind,
(95) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil), speaking,  not for the Brazilian delegation, but as Chairman  of the International Commission for the preparation  of a History of the Scientific and Cultural Develop-  ment of Mankind, requested the Chairman to make  an exception to the procedure adopted for the  debates, and to allow him ten minutes to present  his report.
(96) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) thought it impossible  to open a discussion in the Commission on such a  vast subject and one involving such a large sum of  money.
(97) He proposed the establishment of a working  party, under the chairmanship of Professor  Carneiro, which would meet the following morning  and go into the matter thoroughly.
(98) The CHAIRMAN took a vote on the proposal of  the delegate of France.
(99) Adopted.
(100) In reply to a question from Mr. BERREDO  CARNEIRO (Brazil), the CHAIRMAN said that he  would ask the Secretariat to prepare a list of  delegates to form the Working Party on the History  of the Scientific and Cultural Development of Mankind.  Project 4.42: Study of cultural relations (paragraphs
(101) Miss NEFFA (Lebanon) observed that museum  activities usually interested only certain groups,  but that the project under consideration was of  interest to everyone, including the general public.  The Arab States maintained important cultural and  other relations with the peoples of Latin America,  and she therefore requested that an invitation be  addressed in good time to the Arab States, so that  they might take part in the international discussion  referred to in paragraph 335.
(102) Mr. SUZUKI (Japan) read a draft resolution  (document 8C/DR/31) presented by his delegation  and proposing an addition to paragraph 327.
(103) In support of the draft resolution, he explained  that the Japanese Academy had started work on  reproducing historical documents relating not only  to Japan but also to other Asian countries, its aim  being to retrace the history of relations between  Asia and Europe. He hoped tha! Unesco would  encourage that research by giving financial assistance.
(104) The Advisory Committee had recommended  that the draft resolution be taken into consideration  when the programme for 1957-58 was being prepared.  The Japanese delegate wondered, however, if it  would not be possible for the Secretariat to submit  the question, as the Executive Board had recom-  mended, to the International Council for Philosophy  and Humanistic Studies, with a request that it  prepare a work plan.   PROGRAMME AND BUDGET COMMISSION IV-25
(105) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) announced  that the Board had already recommended that the  Japanese proposal be referred to the International  Council for Philosophy and Humanistic Studies, with  a view to the submission of a report to the General  Conference at its ninth session.
(106) Mr. ROMANO MUNOZ (Mexico) stated that his  delegation was very interested in the project con-  cerning manuscripts in Europe relating to the history  of Latin America (Section C). As Mexico had once  been a colony, many extremely valuable documents  relating to its history were to be found in Europe.  The "Archivo de Indias de España" (Archives of the  Spanish Indies) had given valuable help in that field,  However, there were many historical documents of  interest to Mexico in Austria, France and, especially,  in the Vatican. In that connexion, Mexico requested  Unesco to give it appropriate assistance.
(107) Mr. SLONIMSKI (Poland) drew attention to the  draft resolution presented by the Polish delegation  in document 8C/DR/63 and connected with resolution
4.42. The Polish proposal was that Unesco issue a  publication to commemorate the centenary of the  death of the great Polish poet, Adam Mickiewicz, in
1855. The Advisory Committee on Programme and  Budget had recommended, instead of the issuing of a  book, the publication of a series of articles in the  Unesco Courier. The Polish delegation considered  that that would not be an adequate substitute for its  own proposal.
(108) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) recalled that the Advisory Com-  mittee had recommended that, in order to meet the  wishes of the Polish delegation, articles on  Mickiewicz should be published in the Unesco Courier.
(109) He believed that he was right in assuming that  the delegate of Poland was asking for a work to be  published, and pointed out that such a project had  budgetary implications,
(110) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) shared the  views of the Polish delegation. It was desirable to  pay tribute to a man so representative of Eastern  European culture and what had been done for Balzac  and Goethe should also be done for the Polish poet.
(111) He wondered whether a publisher might issue  the work at his own expense, under Unesco's  auspices,
(112) Mr. BRANCA (Italy) emphasized that, in the  t'eld of international relations, emphasis should be  laid on the fact that it was right to do homage to a  great poet who had come into contact with many  foreign countries and to whom Italy, in particular,  always felt grateful.
(113) If the Secretariat did not think it could under-  take the publication of a volume, as it had done for  other writers, would it not be possible to request  the Revue de Littérature Comparée to devote a  special number to Mickiewicz, as it had done for  Balzac? There would thus be no budgetary  implications for Unesco.  - 445 -
(114) Mr. WIDDOWSON (Union of South Africa) felt  that it would be placing an unfair onus on the Secre-  tariat if the proposal were merely referred to it  without instructions. The Commission ought either  to reject the proposal, or vote the necessary money  for it.
(115) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) recalled that, while  Mickiewicz had had relations with Italy, he had  lived in France. A tribute to him would be a tribute  not only to a Pole, but also to a European and to one  who had always fought for freedom.
(116) Mr. NAVRATIL (Czechoslovakia) supported  the Polish delegation's proposal. He considered that  Mickiewicz symbolized international friendship,  based on intelectual understanding.
(117) Mr. SOLODOVNIKOV (Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics) also supporting the Polish dele-  gation's proposal, requested that a vote be taken on  it, for, if the Commission approved it, the  Director-General would be responsible for finding  the funds necessary for publishing the volume.
(118) Mr, THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cul ‘ral Activities) felt somewhat overcome by all  the different suggestions made: the Advisory  Committee recommended the publication of articles  in the Courier; the delegate of Poland was asking  for a work to be published and that would entail  expenditure; the delegate of Brazil had recommended  that a publisher be asked to issue the work at his own  expense, and that might not be feasible; the delegate  of Italy had suggested bringing out a special number  of the Revue de Littérature Comparée, and that  solution would probably not raise many difficulties.
(119) Mr. Thomas was prepared to study any of  those solutions, but he needed specific instructions  to do so.
(120) The CHAIRMAN asked the delegate of Poland  whether he would be willing to restate his proposal,  asking the Director-General to investigate the  possibility of publishing such a book, rather than  giving him definite instructions to publish it.
(121) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) stated that, on the basis of  present standards, the Secretariat estimated the  cost of publishing such a volume at $6,420,
(122) Mr. LORENTZ (Poland) maintained his  delegation's proposal and requested that the Commis-  sion vote on it.
(123) Mr. BRANCA (Italy) recalled that the  Commission had decided to increase the subvention  granted to the International Council for Philosophy  and Humanistic Studies to $10, 000. He wondered  whether part of that sum could not be set aside for  the publication of a work on Mickiewicz.
(124) Mr. WARD (United K.ngdom) thought that the  Commission was faced with an extremely difficult  choice. It had gone through the programme  chapters, adding items to the budget. The following   IV-26 PROGRANME AND BUDGET COMMISSION  week, the Commission would have a painful meeting,  when it would have to cut out a great many of the  items which it had put ir. Therefore, while very  much in sympathy with the Polish proposal, and  hoping that its attitude would not be misinterpreted,  the United Kingdom delegation would very reluctantly  vote against the project and would support the  suggestion that a series of articles on Mickiewicz  be published in the Unesco Courier.
(125) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) considered  that the solution suggested by the Advisory Committee  on Programme and Budget was inacceptable.
(126) He proposed that the Director-General be  invited:
(1) to study the possibility of publishing a volume  at Unesco's expense;
(2) if the necessary funds could not be found, to  ask the Revue de Littérature Comparée to devote a  special number to Mickiewicz.
(127) Mr. TAMAS (Hungary) moved approval of the  original Polish draft resolution.
(128) He considered not only that it was Unesco's  duty to pay tribute to the Polish poet, but that it  would be an honour for Unesco to have done so.
(128) Mr. LINKSON (Australia) moved, as an  amendment to the Polish motion, that the possibility  of having the book published by a commercial  publisher under Unesco's sponsorship be  explored.
(130) The motion was seconded by Mr. PANNETON  (Canada).
(131) The Australian amendment was rejected by
14 votes to 12, with 5 abstentions.
(132) The Polish motion, as set out in document
8C/DR/64, was adopted by 20 votes to 3, with 8  abstentions.
(133) Project 4. 42 was approved.  The meeting rose at 12,30 a.m.  TWENTY - SIXTH MEETING
3 December 1954 at 10 a.m.  Chairman : Mr, THA HLA (Union of Burma)  ITEM 8.4.5 OF REVISED AGENDA : MASS COMMUNICATION
(1) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass  Communication) stated that in the light of the  different projects described in the chapter on Mass  Communication the working party had arrived at a  definition of the Department's main objectives and  had drawn up a scheme which not only corresponded  clearly to those objectives but also fitted in exactly  with the Director-General's programme. :
(2) A close examination of the different projects  showed that activities fell into two separate groups:  (a) those under items 5.1 and 5. 2, relating to  public information and the promotion of international  understanding by Member States and Unesco;  (b) those under items 5. 3 to 5.6, covering  projects relating to assistance to Member States  in the development of Mass Communication services  for educational, scientific and cultural uses.
(3) In carrying out the activities in the first group,  the Department employed the following methods:  (a) co-operation with the press and press agencies,  both international and national, for whom the  Department prepared press releases, newsletters,  photo stories, articles, leaflets and folders;  (b) co-operation with the radio: the Department  distributed the Unesco World Review, weekly to  over 1, 600 radio organizations in nearly 120 countries    - 446 -  and territories; it made recordings of talks,  commentaries and interviews; it arranged for the  production of documentary and cultural broadcasts;  and it invited guest producers from radio  organizations in Member States to make a series  of broadcasts;  (c) production of visual aids, consisting of  newsreel items, "shorts", and filmstrips, and  organization of travelling exhibitions for circulation  among the various States in turn.
(4) Al the projects under items 5.1 and 5. 2  represented services rendered by the Secretariat,  not only to Unesco, but to the family of nations  as a whole.
(5) Turning next to the second category, Mr.  Desjardins described the activities concerned in  detail.
(6) With regard to item 5.3 (Free Flow of Informa-  tion), the methods employed by the Secretariat  were threefold:
(1) Encouragement of Member States to conclude  agreements and make administrative arrangements,  and formulation of recommendations with a view to  the establishment of international standards.
(2) Co-operation with the United Nations, the  Specialized Agencies and appropriate international  organizations, in order to encourage the adoption  of practical measures for the reduction of obstacles