13 November 1954 at 11 am.  President: Mr. ZAVALA MUNIZ (Uruguay)  CONTENTS  Communications by the President . 1100 0 1 5 05 0 0 0» 46  Admission of new Member States and of Associate Members 46  COMMUNICATIONS BY THE PRESIDENT
(1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  May I, as President, in opening the work of this Con-  ference, be permitted to propose that, as a tribute  to the efficiency with which he carried out his task  as President, and in gratitude for his work at the  General Conference, we should pass a vote of thanks  by acclamation to the outgoing President, our illus-  trous colleague, Dr. Radhakrishnan, (Applause)
(2) The General Committee, at its meeting this  morning, decided to recommend the adoption of the  proposed organization of work of the eighth session  (document 8C/BUR/1). May I draw the attention of  the Conference to the draft resolutions which appear  on the second and third pages of this document; and  especially to the recommendation that the number of  plenary meetings devoted to the discussion of the  Director-Genegral's report be limited to six; that  those meetings are to last a maximum of three hours  each; and that, to this end, the time allowed to each  speaker will, in accordance with Rule 71 of the Rules  of Procedure, be limited to a quarter of an hour. The  plan of organization further proposes that the discus-  sion be organized in the following manner; delegates  will be asked to inform the General Conference Se-  cretariat, not later than the end of the first day of  the session, whether they wish to speak in the de-  bate, and, if so, to indicate the meeting at whichthey  would like to speak and the probable length of their  speech. The Secretariat will then draw up for the  General Committee a draft list of speakers for each  of the six meetings. After revision by the General  Committee, the list will be submitted by the Presi-  dent to the General Conference for approval. No  change may be made in the list except by the General  Committee itself on receipt of a request, giving  reasons, from any delegation which desires that the  time allotted to it be changed.
(3) Does the Conference approve this resolution?
(4) Adopted,
(5) The General Committee also approved the follow-  ing draft resolution:  - 46 -     "The General Conference approves the decision of  the Executive Board (document 39 EX/DIV/2) regard-  ing partial use of the Russian language at the eighth  session",
(6) If no one wishes to speak, it will be taken as  approved.
(7) Approved.
(8) The General Committee likewise decided to refer  to the Administrative Commission the applications for  the right to vote, submitted by countries in arrears  with payment of their contributions (documents 8C/9,
8C/10, 8C/ADM/8 part 3, Add,1 and ID).
(9) The General Committee decided, as an exceptional  measure, to recommend the acceptance of draft  resolutions 8C/DR/63 and 64, which involved the  suspension of Rule 78 of the Rules of Procedure of  the General Conference, in accordance with Rule 108,  which states that this may be done if the motion for  suspension is adopted by a two-thirds majority.
(10) If no one wishes to speak, it will be taken as  approved,
(11) Approved.  ADMISSION OF NEW MEMBER STATES AND ASSOCIATE  MEMBERS
(12) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call upon the Chairman of the Executive Board.
(13) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive  Board): On behalf of the Executive Board, which has  the duty of recommending the admission or non-  admission of new Members, I will read out the  resolution adopted by the Executive Board at its  thirty-eighth session.  "The Executive Board,  Considering that the Government of the People's  Republic of Rumania applied for membership of Unes-  co on 18 May 1954; that, in accordance with Article  II of the Agreement between Unesco and the United  Nations, the Director-General forwarded the   PLENARY  application to the Economic and Social Council of the  United Nations; that the Economic and Social Council,  at its eighteenth session, decided to inform Unesco  that it had no objection tothe admission of the People's  Republic of Rumania to membership of the Organiza-  tion,  Decides, in accordance with paragraph 2 of Arti-  cle Il of Unesco's Constitution, to recommend to the  General Conference at its eighth session that the  People's Republic of Rumania be admitted to member-  ship of Unesco, "
(14) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  We turn now to the application of the Republic of  Rumania for admission to membership of Unesco. 1  call upon the United States delegate.
(15) Mr, NUFER (United States of America): We  have before us the request of the Government of the  Rumanian People's Republic for admission to mem-  bership of the United Nations Educational, Scientific  and Cultural Organization. We are aware that some  countries are prepared to endorse this application on  the grounds that Unesco should apply the principle of  universality and that it should be a global Organiza-  tion. The United States of America supports this  principle, but believes that it must be subject to the  denionstrated capacity of an applicant for member-  ship to comply with the obligations of the UnescoCon-  stitution and the rudimentary rules of international  law. Unless this principle is qualified in this way we  run the risk of undermining the very purposes for  which this Organization was created. Viewed in this  light, what is the record of Rumania?
(16) Paragraph 1 of Article I of the Unesco Consti-  tution sets forth the purpose of the Organization as  follows:  "... to contribute to peace and security by  promoting collaboration among the nations through  education, science and culture in order to further  universal respect for justice, for the rule of law  and for the human rights and fundamental freedoms  which are affirmed for the peoples of the world,  without distinction of race, sex, language or religion,  by the Charter of the United Nations, "
(17) It is common knowledge that Rumania’s recard  is one of constant violation of its international obli-  gations in respect of human rights and fundamental  freedoms, of freedom of expression, press, religion  and political opinion. Rumania's violations of human  rights and fundamental freedoms have been so wide-  spread and so callously indifferent to the inherent  dignity of man that its record was considered in the  United Nations General Assembly in 1948 and again  in 1850, The continued refusal of Rumania to comply  with its Peace Treaty obligations was referred to the  International Court of Justice, and the Court sharply  pointed to its obligations under the Peace Treaty.  Rumania, however, continued to ignore those obliga-  tions. The United Nations General Assembly conse-  quently adopted a resolution in 1950 condemning the  wilful refusal of the Government of Rumania to fulfil  its obligations under the provisions of its Treaty of  Peace, pointing out that those obligations had been  confirmed by the International Court of Justice. The  United Nations General Assembly further more ob-  served in its resolution that the conduct of the Govern-    NEETINGS 11-3  ment of Rumania indicated that it was aware of  breaches by it of its obligations under the Treaty of  Peace, and that it was callously indifferent to the sen-  timents of the world community. In addition, the  General Assembly voted that this Government had  made no satisfactory refutarion of accusations against
1t concerning its continued viclations of its Treaty  obligations. Rumania's record speaks for itself, it  ignores its obligations under à Treaty which it has al-  ready signed to respect human r.ghts and fundamental  freedoms. It ignores the advisory opinion of the In-  ternational Court of Justice, It stands condemned by  the United Nations for wilful violation of its treaty  obligations. Such a country should not be admitted to  Unesco. We are faced with a choice here, end in our  opinion this Organization should reject Rumauia's  application, We should nct turn membership of this  Organization into an empty gesture. The Constitution  and the obligations of Unesco should remain clear-cut  and firm, For these reasons, and in the belief that  membership of this Organization calls for compliance  with its obligations, the United States of America will  vote against the admission of Rumania to Unesco.
(18) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):
1 call on the delegate of Czechoslovakia.
(19) Mr. HAYEK (Czechoslovakia) (Translation from  the French): The Czechoslovak delegation did not in-  tend to take part in the discussions at this stage of the  General Conferer-e, But the speech which has just  been made by the United States delegation - a speech  designed to upset tiie atmosphere of understanding and  co-operation - forces us to intervene in a matter which  is absolutely clear-cut and irrefutable. Both the Eco-  nomic and Social Council of the United Nations and the  Executive Board of Unesco recommend this General  Conference to admit the People's Republic of Rumania  to membership of Unesco. Rumania has for long past  - prior to this recommendation - given striking proof  that its cultural policy is in conformity with the aims  proclaimed in Unesco's Constitution, This is com-  mon knowledge.
(20) After its liberation in 1944 Rumania had to cope  with the heritage of centuries of tyranny, foreign op-  pression, poverty, ignorance and a backwardness  artificially prolonged by previous régimes. Added to  all this were the ravages of the Second World War and  the fascist occupation. The Rumanian penple, with  admirable self-sacrifice and heroism, have in a short  space of time overcome these obstacles. They have  brought literacy to millions of Rumanian citizens,  They have instituted a system of free and compulsory  education, built hundreds, thousands of primary and  secondary schools, and dozens of higher educational  establishments. They have given workers free access  to education and culture. They have systematically  encouraged the creative abilities of people belonging  to all strata of the population, and helped the univer-  sities, research institutes and science foundations  established since the liberation. We are witnessing  a flowering of science - both natural and humanistic -  the fruits of which are manifest in the expansion of  industry and agriculture and in tae rising cultural  level of the entire population. Scholars, writers,  artists and popular cultural groups have established  close and fruitful contacts with many other countries.  - 47 -
11-3 PLENARY  There are, in the opinion of the Czechoslovak delega-  tion, few other nations which could have obtained  such striking results in conditions as adverse as those  that faced the Republic of Rumania after the war.
(21) It is only natural that we should hail this coun-  try's co-operation with Unesco, thus facilitating the  latter's approach to true universality, the importance  of which has been emphatically stressed on many  occasions, and at this very conference, Despite all  this, we have just heard objections raised. Nothing  could be more contrary to reason than to invoke hu-  man rights in the present case, It might be asked  whether those who have raised these objections have,  in their own countries, in fact introduced the right to  education, and freedom of access to all the heritage  of national and world culture; whether they have  abolished all inequality betweenthe sexes, all national,  religious and racial discrimination as completely as  the Rumanian people have, It is only just that the  Rumanian people should defend its rights against all  attacks, from whatever quarter thcy may come, The  objections which have been raised are directed not  against the Rumanian people alone, but also against  the universality of Unesco, against the very aims of  our Constitution, against peaceful coexistence,  against international understanding between the peoples  in all spheres, and in the sphere of culture in parti-  cular. That is why the Czechoslovek delegation in-  vites the Conference to reject these objections, and  to vote for the admission of the People's Republic of  Rumania to membership of Unesco.
(22) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call on the delegate of the USSR.
(23) Mr. SOLDATOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) (Translation from the Russian): The  delegation of the Soviet Union supports the decision of  the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations  and the decision of the Executive Board of our  Organization onthe admission of the People's Republic  o Rumania to the United Nations Educational, Scientific  and Cultural Organization, The delegation of the  Soviet Union considers that the development of cultural  co-operationamong all States, and active participation  in the work of Unesco by all the countries  which manifest a desire to be members of Unesco,  would create a better atmosphere in the world, and  help to establish a situation which would work for the  maintenance of peace and friendly relations among  the nations of the world, The delegation of the Goviet  Union thinks that this is the desire of all the peoples  whom we have the honour to represent here at the  General Conference of Unesco. For that reason the  delegation of the Soviet Union thinks that the admis-  sion of the People's Republic of Rumania to the United  Nations Educational, Scientific »nd Cultural Organi-  zation would work for the further development of co-  operation between the peoples of the world in the  maintenance of better relations between those peoples  and for world peace and tranquillity,
(24) As far as the record of Rumania is concerned  in the field of culture, science and education, I think  all the delegates to this Conference know very well  that the Rumanian people played a conspicuous part  in the development of European culture in the past,  and is playing a great rôle in the development of  - 48 -     MEETINGS  European culture today. We believe that the contri-  bution of any country in the world to the development  of world culture 1s a great thing and it does not matter  whether this contribution is big or small; any such  contribution will enrich world culture and encourage  the peoples in their desire to develop better relations  one with another, The People's Republic of Rumania  has made great strides in its development in recent  years, after the ravages of the war had been repaired,  The representative of the People's Republic of Cze-  choslovakia has drawn our attention to the achievement  of the Pevple's Republic of Rumania in the field of edu-  cation and culture and I will not lose time in developing  this theme further, 1 would only stress one point, which  is, that in Rumania there is a fundamental and organic  law of the country stating clearly that the citizens of  the Rumanian People's Republic, irrespective of  nationality or race, are ensured full equality and rights  in all spheres of economic, political and cultural  activities, Any director indirect restriction of the rights  of the citizens of the Rumanian People's Republic, the  establishment of any direct or indirect privileges for  citizens on account of their race or nationality, as  well as any manifestation of chauvinism, race hatred,  national hate, or nationalistic or chauvinistic  propaganda, is punishable by law. I do not need to re-  fer to a number of other Articles in the Constitution of  the Rumanian People's Republic which ensure the right  of the citizens to develop culture, science and educa-  tion so that these benefits may become benefits for ali  the peoples of the Republic. It is a great pity that a  reference was made here to past discussions in the  United Nations on the question of alleged violations of  the rights of citizens in Rumania, That is a thing of  the past, and I would like to say that the charges made  were not confirmed by any facts produced at the United  Nations. All the allegations against the government  and people of the People's Republic of Rumania were  refuted. I would remind the members of this assem-  bly that the United Nations has long since dropped this  matter, convinced that the issue was not one which  deserved further consideration and because the rights  granted to the people and the development of culture  and science in Rumania proved that all those allega-  tions were false.
(25) Mr. President, allow me to request all the mem-  bers of our high assembly to support the decision of  the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations  and of our Executive Board and decide to admit the  People's Republic of Rumania to our Organization, The  delegation of the Soviet Union earnestly hopes that this  decision will be unanimously accepted.
(26) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call upon the delegate of Israel.
(27) Mr. KUBOVY (Israel): Article 1 of the Un2sco  Constitution states that the final aim of this Organiza-  tion, as also of the United Nations, is to further uni-  versal respect for justice, for the rule of law ard for  human rights and fundamental freedoms for all. Now  the Rumanian Government has kept imprisoned for  nearly four years, and without any kind of trial, a  large number of men and women who formed the élite  of the former leaders of the Jewish communities of  Rumania, In the past year, Rumanian courts, sitting  for the most part in secret, have sentenced some   PLENARY  hundred of these people to very long terms of impri-  sonment, The crime of which they were accused was  that they had been in favour of the establishment of  the State of Israel and maintained contact with Jewish  organizations in othr countries, They were con-  demned for activities which, at the time, were not  only legal but were exercised openly, and with the  consent of the Rumanian Government, This actionon  the part of the People's Republic of Rumania reflects  a policy which is incompatiole with the principles  of Unesco, and in flagrant contradiction with its  aims, which are to further the unrestricted pursuit  of objective truth and the free exchange of ideas and  knowledge. For these reasons the Israeli delegation  will have to vote aga'nst the admission of the People's  Republic of Rumani=,
(28) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call upon the delegate of the United Kingdom.
(28) Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS (United Kingdom):  The United Kingdom approaches this important and  difficult maiter with four major considerations in  mind.
(30) The first is that this Organization should strive  for and attain universality, and no delegation is more  eager than ours to see that ideal realized in practice  in tbe life and work of this Organization. The second  corsideration is that Unesco is an autonomous body.  It is not the Education Department of a super -State  and it reaches its decision in the light of its own  consideration of the evidence before it, The third  consideration is that of timing. There isatimewhen a  decision should be reached and there is a time fre-  quently when it is unwise that a decision should be  reached, which leads me to the fourth consideration  - that our decisions should always be based on what  we regard as the conclusiveness and the adequacy of  the evidence, Now, it is certain that in the speeches  so far delivered from this rostrum there is conflict-  ing evidence before us and it is extremely difficult  for us who are attending this session quickly to ap-  praise this evidence and to reach a decision upon it.
(31) It therefore seems to the United Kingdom to be  most desirable to oppose the admission of Rumania  at this particular session, on the grounds that I have  already indicated and to say that we shall be very glad  indeed to see this application re-examined in two  years' time, when this Conference assembles again.  For that reason, I would like to propose an  amendment, that a decision on the admission of  Rumania be postponed for two years and that we  would welcome the application at that time.
(32) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):
1 call on the delegate of Canada.
(33) Mr. PIERCE (Canada): I speak to support the  proposal of the United Kingdom delegation, Our aim  in Unesco is not to have a specific number of mem-  bers, say 73 or 72, 1 think our colleague from the  Soviet Union, when he spoke a moment ago, put our  aim more correctly, He said that our aim was to  create better feelings and relations. To add a new  member in face of the strong objections of members  of long standing, who have been th ‘t—-< -2 - =  Organization, is not,I suggest, a step in that direction.  - 49 -     MEETINGS 1-3  With time, attitudes will modify and feelings may sub-  side, It is for these reasons that the Canadian dele-  gation supports the amendment of the United Kingdom,
(34) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):
1 call on the delegate of Brazil.
(35) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) (Translation  from the French): The Government of Brazil regrets  very keenly that it is unable, atthe moment, to support  the application of Rumania. In making this statement  ! wish to stress that it is not to be regarded as  even a temporary refusal or as expressing reserve  or hostility towards the Rumanian people and the  struggle it is waging to secure the conquests of which  Unesco is the champion.
(36) We therefore request the Director-General to  approach the Rumanian authorities without delay and  to draw up fur our next General Conference a report  designed to inform all Member States and delegates  of the real atmosphere in Rumania, and that country's  accomplishments, so that we may all, with one ac-  cord, recognize its right to participate in our work.  This is therefore not a refusal but merely a postpone-  ment; and we support the British proposal to this  effect.
(37) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call on the delegate of Poland.
(38) Mr. MICHALOWSKI (Poland): The Polish dele-  gation supports the proposal of the Executive Board  and the recommendation of the Economic and Social  Council concerning the admission of the People's Re-  public of Rumania to membership of Unesco. We  should admit Rumania to our Organization, because  that country is acting, in the field of culture and in its  international relations, in the spirit and in accordance  with the principles of true progress. These are the  principles which are the basis of the Constitution of  Unesco. In our opinion, the principle of universality  which underlies Unesco's Constitutionis a pre-requisite  of success in its work on a general and on a  national scale, In our opinion, there is no conflicting  evidence about Rumania, as has been said at this Con-  ference, because no evidence against Rumania nor  evidence barring Rumania from membership of Unesco  has been presented here. The facts submitted by the  representative of Isrzz! are not facts but a repetition  of political propaganda disseminated in the world in  order to embitter the political situation. We are, for  this reason, opposing the amendment of the United  Kingdom representative. In our opinion it is our duty  to admit Rumania to Unesco. It is a duty to give it  the possibility to take part in our work and to enrich  the work of our Organization, The Polish delegation  therefore appeals for the rejection of the amendment  of the United Kingdom delegation and for the admis-  sion of Rumania as a member of Unesco,
(39) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call on the delegate of Denmark.
(40) Mr. NIELSEN (Denmark): We are here faced  with the different views of different delegations. Those  who oppose the admission of Rumania are accusing  them on grounds which it is very difficult for the
1-3 PLENARY  different nations to verify. We have known of these  accusations for long, and I shall take no stand and  pass no judgment on this point. On the other hand,  we are faced with a proposal to defer the decision of  this Conference, for reasons given by the delegate of  the United Kingdom, Our delegation takes the view  that it is desirable that the representatives of all  nations should come together irrespective of the dif-  ferent views they hold in political or ideological mat-  ters. We deem it necessary to produce conditions in  which the members of our human community can ex-  change their views, however different, in a spirit of  co-operation, each endeavouring to make its views  comprehensible to the others. On these grounds, we  feel that we should not defer a decision, but should  accept those who indicate their wish to co-operate  with us, Even if our ways of life and our fundamen-  tal ideals differ, it is better to sit together in the  same room and speak to each other than to insultand  attack each other across frontiers. We are therefore  in favour of taking a decision at once and our delega-  tion is prepared to vote for the admission of Rumania,
(41) The PRESIDENT (Trans! ation from the Spanish}:  I call on the delegate of Belgium,
(42) Baron van der STRATEN WAILLET (Belgium)  (Translation from the French): I wish to give the  reasons why the Belgian delegation intends to support  the proposal of the United Kingdom delegation.
(43) We regard the problem from two different angles:  firstly, from that of the global character of the  Organization - from this point of view it 1s clearly  desirable that the greatest possible number of States  should participate in the work of this Specialized  Agency; secondly, from the point of view of respect  for human rights and respect for the international  obligations of the members of this Organization; and  from this later point of view, we cannot be deaf to  the arguments which have been adduced by the various  members of this Organization, We therefore consider  it expedient to postpone taking a decision so that States  which have applied for admission to Unesco - and  Rumania in particular - can adapt their policy to  conform to the requirements of members of this  Specialized Agency. Accordingly, we support the  motion to this effect submitted by the United Kingdom  delegation.
(44) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call on the delegate of Yugoslavia,
(45) Mr, VLAHOVIC (Yugoslavia) (Translation from  the Spanish): The delegate of the United Kingdom  made four comments on the problem before us. The  Yugoslav delegation wishes briefly to add a few more.
(46) We in Yugoslavia have had very bitter and cruel  experiences during the past five years; but let that  pass - we will overlook it in the hope that the inter-  national situation will improve and because we be-  lieve that the principle of universality should be in-  troduced into international organizations, Unesco as  well as the United Nations. Our country is a member  of the Economic and Social Council of the United Na-  tions, which approved the application of the People's  Republic éf Rumania - and, in view of this, the Yu-  goslav delegation will endeavour to think not of the  - 50 -     MEETINGS  past but of the future, believing that, if the delegations  of those countries which are applying for admission  to Unesco come here, we shall be better able to  perceive what they think and desire; and also because  they will here assume further obligations which  t hey will have to discharge by working hand in hand  with us. For these reasons we Yugoslavs, lookingto  the future rather than dwelling on the past, will vote  in favour of the admission of Rumania.
(47) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  We have three countries, Colombia, Lebanon and  Italy, which have announced their intention to speak.  If there are no objections, the list of speakers will  then be closed, I call on the delegate of Colombia.
(48) Mr, BERNAL JIMENEZ (Colombia) (Transla-  tion from the Spanish): I must begin by declaring, on  behalf of my country's delegation, that we support the  principle of universality; that we cherish the desire  to see all the peoples of the world, some time, as-  sembled at this grea. Conference of the United Nations  Specialized Agency for Education, Science and Culture;  and that we hope, in the end, to see the ideal of friend-  ship and universal peace realized in these lofty realms  of thought. This is also the desire, this cannot but be  the desire, of all men of imagination and courage,
(49) The wars of the past have been vast hecatombs  which have scourged mankind and from which, we  may aver, no nation has escaped. They are tragic  memories which we cannot forget but it is the idea of  universality which should always inform our aspira-  tions. It is my hope that this day may not be far off,  the day when all the peoples of the world will meet to-  gether in an atmosphere of mutual understanding and  genuine solidarity. It is precisely because this is our  hope that we deem it essential to prepare the way for  it.
(50) It is natural and logical that the present members  of Unesco should demand a minimum guarantee of  human rights, a minimum sphere for free develop-  ment in all States which are to become members of  the Organization. Accordingly, it is logical alsothat,  before the admission of a new Member State, there  should be those minimum guarantees to reassure us  regarding the actual fulfilment of the obligatiors as-  sumed by this new State on entering the community of  Unesco.
(51) Does this full guarantee exist in thc case of the  Republic of Rumania? Is it really certain that, atthe  present juncture, Rumania is in a position to fulfil  the obligations it will be undertaking? Are we fully  convinced that there really is a free exchange of ideas  in that State, and that freedom of thought and move-  ment is guaranteed there? If our delegation were  convinced of this, we should have no hesitation about  voting in favour. And we should be especially pleased  to do so in view of our deep regard for that great  people, to which we are bound by racial affinities.
(52) But since there exists no such conviction, since,  on the contrary, there does exist a certain concrete  fact, the fact mentioned by the United States delegate,  who cited the case of the International Court of Jus-  tice, which has just completed its investigation of  violations of human rights committed in the country  now applying for admission to this Organization, we  are unable to approve the admission of Rumania to   PLENARY  the new community of the United Nations, That ia the  opinion of the Colombian delegation.
(53) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call on the delegate of the Lebanon.
(54) Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) (Translationfromthe  French}: In the opinion of the Lebanese delegation,  it is not for us here to pronounce judgment on States  applying for admission: we are not awarding good  conduct certificates. In principle, we must assume that  the very fact oi a State knocking at our door indicates  its acceptance of all the principles to which we  subscribe, and its intention to model both its domestic  and its foreign policy on the principles governing  our Organization. But since this interpretation does  not seem to be general, and since, in spite of our  wish to encourage the expression of differing opinions  in this assembly and so promoting discussion, which  constitutes the essence of life, we must avoid  prolonging a debate which embitters the atmosphere  of our discussion and impart to this vote the  character of approval or of censure, we should do  well, I think, to support the United Kingdom propo-  sal. In so doing, however, we should make it quite  clear that, in the interests of expediency, and in  order to facilitate understanding between States which  are or may become members of this Organization, we  are postponing the consideration of this matter until  the general circumstances indicate that, as we hope,  the Rumanian application will be unanimously accep-  ted. For the specific reasons stated we support the  United Kingdom proposal.
(55) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call on the delegate of Italy.
(56) Mr. BADINI CONFALONIERI (Italy) (Transla-  tion from the French): The Italian delegation attaches  very great importance to the principle of universality,  but considers that it can only be extended in  practice toStates which provide serious and convincing  proofs that they cherish sufficient respect for the  fundamental rights of cultural freedom to be qualified  to enter the international community, In the  trial which has been instituted here, it appears to  me premature to take up any stand, since it is meet  and necessary that the allegations made by the oppo-  ving sides be examined. We accept the United King-  dorm proposa’ for the reason so clearly stated by the  delegate of Belgium. 1 should like to add that there  is, 1 think, a question of procedure involved here: the  United Kingdom proposal should be voted on first of  all; and I request that the vote be taken by roll-call,
(57) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  The debate is now closed, We are going to vote on  the draft amendment submitted bythe United Kingdom  delegation and seconded by several other delegations.  The amendment is that the General Conference  should postpone a decision on the application of the  People's Republic of Rumania until the next session  of the Conference two years hence, The vote will  be taken by roll-call.
(58) Mr. MONTAGNIER (Secretary of the Conference)  took the vote by roll-call.    MEETINGS 11-3  In favour: Belgium, Brazil, Cambodia, Canada,  Chile, Colombia, France, German Federal Republic,  Greece, Guatemala, Haiti, Israel, Italy, Japan, Korea,  Lebanon, Liberia, Mexico, Netherlands, Nicaragua,  Panama, Salvador, Spain, Thailand, Union of South  Africa, United Kingdom, United States of America,  Uruguay.  Against: Argentina, Burma, Byelorussian Soviet  Socialist Republic, Denmark, India, Indonesia, Norway,  Sweden, Switzerland, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Re-  public, USSR, Yugoslavia.  Abstained: Australia, Austria, Ceylon, Costa  Rica, Ecuador, Egypt, Iran, Iraq, Jordan, Laos,  Libya, New Zealand, Pakistan, Philippines, Viet-  Nam.  Absent: Afghanistan, Dominican Republic,  Honduras, Luxembourg, Monaco, Nepal, Peru,  Saudi-Arabia, Syria, Turkey, Venezuela.
(59) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  The amendment submitted by the United Kingdom de-  legate is adopted by 28 votes in favour, 12 against,  with 15 abstentions and 11 absent.
(6™ The final consideration of thus question will there-  fore be postponed until the next General Conference in  two years! time.
(61) We will now consider the application for admis-  sion to Unesco of the People's Republic of Bulgaria
(8C/10). 1 call on the Chairman of the Executive  Board.
(62) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive  Board): The Executive Board at its thirty-ninth ses-  sion adopted the following resolution on 11 November  last:  "The Executive Board,  Considering that the Government of the People's  Republic of Bulgaria applied for membership of  Unesco on 21 July 1954, that, in accordance with  Article II of the Agreement between Unesco and the  United Nations, the Director-General forwarded the  application to the Economic and Social Council of  the United Nations, and that the Economic and Social  Council, at its resumed eighteenth session, decided  to inform Unesco that it had no objection to the  admission of the People's Republic of Bulgaria to  membership of the Organization;  Decides, inaccordance with paragraph 2 of Article
11 of Unesco's Constitution, to recommend to the  General Conference at its eighth session that the  People's Republic of Bulgaria be admitted to member -  ship of Unesco."
(63) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  We will now consider the recommendation of the  Executive Board that the application for admission to  membership of Unesco of the People's Republic of  Bulgaria be accepted. I call on the United Kingdom  delegate.
(64) Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS (United Kingdom):  I have no wish to repeat the remarks I made in pro-  posing the amendment when we were considering the  admission of Rumania, I would merely say that my  delegation is animated by the same considerations in  approaching this important and difficult question, too.  And we would like to propose as an amendment to the  - 51 -
11-3 PLENARY  motion brought forward by the Executive Board that  we postpone consideration of the application for the  admission of Bulgaria to this Organization for a  period of two years, and v:e lonk forward to recei-  ving a similar application and considering it at the  end of that time, I beg to move that amendment.
(65) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I open the discussion on the proposal of the United  Kingdom delegate to the effect that a decision on
1 *{s question also should be postponed for two years,  in the same way as the question on which we have  just voted, I call on the delegate nf France,
(66) Mr, MAYER (France) (Translation from the  French): France will vote on this second question,  concerning the admission of Bulgaria, in the same  way as it has just voted on the admission of Ruma-  nia - in other words, it will vote in favour of the  proposal put forward by the United Kingdom dele-  gate, We would like to mention some of our reasons,  which will explain the vote we have just given and  the vote we are about to give. Without acceptingany  of the arguments of the delegate of Czechoslovakia,  we would - if we were thinking only of Unesco as a  world-wide body - be tempted to agree with his  favourable conclusions. On the other hand, if we  consider the speech of the United States represent-  ative, it would appear to be a detailed and exact  description of what is going on and of the real  situation inside Rumania, and now again in Bulgaria.  But we do not consider that it is for Unesco to deal  with political problems. And it is precisely in  order to ensure that such problems are considered  before Unesco examines requests for the admission  of new Member States that the regulations provide  for the United Nations to be consulted, The United  Nations has been consulted: the Economic and Social  Council recommended the admission of these States,  and, ac we see it, the proposal for postponement,  which the United Kingdom proposed, and we  approved, is perhaps, fundamentally - let us hope  so, at least - tantamount to agreeing to admission  at a future date when Unesco will consider the  question not from the political aspect, but simply  and solely from the standpoint of cultural relations  or the need for universality inintellectual co-operation  in the fields of education, science and culture, It is a  pity that we did not, in pevious years, adopt exactly  the same attitude as is beingadopted now. Nevertheless,  the case of Bulgaria cannot be dissociated from that of  Rumania. In our opinion, therefore, it is not a ques-  tion either of rejecting or of accepting the admission  of these States, but simply of considering the matter  objectively in the light of the actual principles on  which Unesco is based, and from which we hope, the  General Conference will not deviate,
(67) The PRESIDENT (Translationfrom the Spanish):
1 call on the delegate of the USSR.
(68) Mr. SOLDATOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) (Translation from the Russian): The  delegation of the Soviet Union, as in the case  previously discussed, supports the recommendation  of the Economic and Social Council of the  United Nations and the decision of the Executive  - 52 -     MEETINGS  Board of Unesco on the question of the admission of  the People's Republic of Bulgaria to Unesco,
(69) The delegation of the Soviet Union considers,  as | have had the pleasure of stating already, that,  in the development of cultural co-operation among  States, active participation in the work of Unesco  by all countries which desire to be members of the  Organization would create the atmosphere, a much  desired atmosphere, for the maintenance of inter-  national peace, in which, we are sure, all people  in the world are vitally interested.
(70) The participation of the People's Republic of  Bulgaria in the work of Unesco would certainly help  in this direction, The delegation of the Soviet Union  cannot share the view expressed here by the repre-  sentative of France and certainly cannot support the  proposal of the representative of the United Kingdom.  The delegation of the Soviet Unlon sees no reason  whatsoever, in the case of the People's Republic of  Rumania as in the case of the People's Republic of  Bulgaria, not to admit this State to Unesco. Accord-  ingly the delegation of the Soviet Union supperts the  decision already taken by the Executive Board and  the recommendation of the United Nations Economic  and Social Council and would earnestly ask this as-  sembly to admit the People's Republic of Bulgaria  to Unesco.
(71) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call on the delegate of Poland.
(72) Mr, MICHALOWSKI (Poland): I already in-  voked the great principle of the universality of our  Organization when I supported the admission of  Rumania, which most unfortunately was rejected.  And I wish now to reassert the same principle of  universality, when I speak on the application of  Bulgaria to join our Organization, In our opinion  we should admit that country not only in accordance  with that principle, but in order to enrich the spirit  of Unesco in the field of the dissemination and de-  velopment of culture, On the other hand, we should  enable Bulgaria to develop still further its valuable  cultural relations with other countries, Bulgaria  has proved that it is worthy to become a member of  an international organization the aim of which is to  promote progress and the development of friendly  cultural relations amongst all nations,
(73) Bulgaria, under its Constitution, guarantees to  its citizens the right to education and culture and to  active participation in the maintenance of the  national culture. These rights are consistently ob-  served. Bulgaria spends a considerable part of its  national budget on Education, Culture and Public  Health, It can boast of great achievements in the  combating of illiteracy, in the raising of the cultu-  ral level of the masses, and in the promotion of art  and science, Bulgaria cherishes its national culture  and at the same time teaches its citizens respect  for and understanding of the culture of other nations.  Bulgaria develops too, to a great extent, friendly  and peaceful cultural relations with other nations,  relations which are of value to all of us.
(74) We should therefore oppose changing Unesco  into an organization of countries with one and the  same political system, or one and the same kind of  government, It would be contrary to the principles   PLENARY  of peaceful and amicable co-existence between  countries to disregard their political or economic  systems. This great principle of coexistence is now  prevailing in the minds of all humanity over ideas of  cold war, pelitical discrimination and political  manoeuvre.
(75) For these reasons we are against the amendment  of the United Kingdom, an amendment which in our  opinion is harinful to our Organization and may cloud  the atmosphere in which we are starting our work.  The Polish delegation therefore supports the ad-  mission of Bulgaria and asks this Conférence to  reject the United Kingdom's amendment.
(76) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call on the delegate of the United States of America.
(77) Mr, NUFER (United States of America): In the  view of the delegation of the United States of Ameri-  ca, Bulgaria is not qualified for membership of  Unesco, Bulgaria has a well-known record of constant  violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms  and disregard of its international obligations. The  record of its Government speaks for itself, It,  too, ignores its obligations under a Treaty it has  signed to respect rights and fundamental freedoms.  It, too, ignores the advisory opinion of the Inter-  national Court of Justice. It, too, stands con-  demned by the United Nations for wilful violation  of its Treaty obligations. In addition, the United  Nations’ Committee of Experts on Forced Labour,  in its recent report, pointed to the widespread  practice of forced labour in Bulgaria. Bulgaria  claims that forced labour is necessary for purposes  of "re-education". 1 submit that re-education  through forced labour is not the kind of education  contemplated by the authors of the Unesco Constitu-  tion as a contribution to world peace and freedom,  nor does it fit into Unesco's unremitting pursuit of  objective truth, In our opinion, a Government that  callously and wilfully contests human rights and fun-  damental freedoms and ignores its international  obligations, should not be admitted to Unesco. These  are not political considerations, but considerations  and facts of paramount concern to Unesco, The re-  cord of Bulgaria has demonstrated incapacity to  comply with the obligations of Unesco. Nevertheless,  the delegation of the United States of America sup-  ports the proposal of the United Kingdom to adjourn  consideration of the application of Bulgaria to mem-  bership of Unesco.
(78) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call on the delegate of Czechoslovakia.
(78) Mr. HAYEK (Czechoslovakia) (Translation  from the French): The last speech by the United  States delegate makes it clear beyond any shadow  of doubt, 1 think, what the issue here is, We are  faced with a situation, with tendencies which, in  the opinion of the Czechoslovak delegation, threa-  ten both the atmosphere of this Conference and the  future work of Unesco. A State or, rather, agroup  of States, is trying to exclude from this Organiza-  tion - whose universal character most of the speakers  have emphasized - certain other States on the  grounds ‘hat they have an economic and social system  - 53 -     MEETINGS 11-3  which differs from their own, It is clear f ‘om the  voting and from the speeches we have listened to that  the so-called Human Rights are merely a pretext,  for on what are the accusations against the People's  Republic of Rumania and the People's Republic of  Bulgaria based? On a few slanderous statements  forming the political propaganda arsenai of the  "cold war", which most of mankind condemns. A  fact which becomes particularly striking when ve  see, posing here as judges the delegates of certain  States whose record in this matter is anything but  exemplary - States which are, on the contrary,  notorious for their flagrant violations of thos: rights.  In the face of this threat we are very sorry to see  the delegates of the United Kingdom and of certain  other countries succumbing to this slander-campaign  and proposing compromises which - the delegates  will, 1 hope, excuse me for saying so - represent  not so much an effort to find a solution worthy of our  Organization as the reflection of a bad coascience,  These are the reasons why the Czechoslovak dele-  gation is opposed to the solution recommended, We  believe that it is a solution unworthy of Unesco, that  it is seriously prejudicial to the atmosphere of this  Corference, the attainment of its aims and to the  very principles of our Constitution; and that it is  calculated to introduce international tension into this  Organization, which should strive for peaceful co-  existence and co-operation between peoples, regard-  less of their economic and social structure,
(80) We therefore appeal to our esteemed colleagues  to reject the United Kingdom propcsal and to vote  for tne admission of the People's Republic of  Bulgaria.
(81) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  If no one else wishes to speak, we shall now take a  vote on the proposed amendment. In the view of the  Chair the amendment »nder discussion, like that  concerning Rumania on wiucs 2 ~ ote has just been  taken, does not amount to rejection of the applica-  tion for admission. On the contrary, it means that  the matter will automatically be brought up at the  next Conference, two years hence, without any  fresh proposal being necesvary, If there is no op-  position, a roll-call vote will be taken.
(82) Mr. MONTAGNIER (Secretary of the Confer-  ence) took the vote by roll-call.  In favour: Belgium, Brazil, Cambodia, Canada,  Chile, Colombia, Dominican Republic, France,  German Federal Republic, Greece, Guatemala,  Haiti, Italy, Japan, Korea, Lebanon, Liberia,  Mexico, Monaco,Netherlands, Nicaragua, Panama,  Salvador, Spain, Thailand, Union of South Africa,  United Kingdom, Uhited States of America, Uruguay,  Against: Argentina, Byelorussian Soviet Social-  ist Republic, Denmark, India, Indonesia, Norway,  Sweden, Switzerland, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist  Republic, USSR, Yugoslavia,  Abstentiors: Australia, Austria, Burma, Ceylon,  Costa Rica, Ecuador, Egypt, Iran, Iraq, Jordan,  Laos, Libya, New Zealand, Pakistan, Philippines,  Viet-Nam.  Absent: Afghanistan, Honduras, Israel, Luxembourg,  Nepal, Peru, Saudi-Arabia, Syria, Turkey, Venezuela.
(83) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  The result of the roll-call vote which has just been  taken is as follows: 29 votes in favour, 11 against,  with 16 abstentions, 10 absent. The United Kingdom  proposal has therefore been annroved.
(84) The next item on the agenda is the application by  by the United Kingdom for the admission of cer*ain  territories and groups of territories as Associate  Members of Unesco.
(85) Document 8C/7 and Article II of the Constitution  of Unesco define the rights and duties of Associate  Members. The Associate Members to be adinitted  on these terms would be: Gold Coast, Sierra Leone,  Sarawak, North Borneo, Brunei, Singapore and the  Federation of Malaya, as one group; and Jamaica,  Trinidad, Grenada, Dominica and Barbados as  another group.
(86) The General Conference has to decide whether  these States are to be admitted as Associate Mem-  bers. If there are no objections, I take the proposal  to be approved and propose that the General Confer-  ence should acclaim these Associate Members which  have just been admitted to Unesco. (Acclamations)
(87) I would be glad to give any of the delegates of  the States which have just been admitted to Unescoas  Associate Members an opportunity to speak, should  they so wish. I call on Mr. Joseph of the Group of  British Caribbean Territories.
(88) Mr, JOSEPH (Bri‘ish Caribbean Group): As I  sat at the back of the hall and heard the discussion  relating to the applications of Rumania and Bulgaria,
1 remained there in fear and trembling, for | realized  that the fate of the application of my territories for  associate membership hung in the balance; but your  ready response to the application, presented by the  United Kingdom delegation for the admission of the  territories ! have the honour to represent has ins-  pired in me a desire to express, on behalf of the  people of my country, our grateful thanks to this  General Conference for admitting us, and to assure  you that we are prepared to give every assistance  possible in carrying out the high ideals for which  Unesco stands.
(89) The territories I have the honour to represent  lie in the Caribbean area stretching from the south of  Florida io the north-east corner of Venezuela. The  largest of them is Jamaica, with a population of a  little over two millions, :nd from that territory my  adviser, Mr. Houghton, Inrector of Education and  Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Educationand  Social Welfare, hails, The second largest territory  is the one from which I come myself and is the most  southerly of the Caribbean Territories, Trinidad, In  all, we represent about four million people. We are  a young people, anxious and willing to take our place  inthe scheme of things, These islands were discovered,  a little under 500 years ago, by an illustrious son of  Italy, who embarked on voyages sponsored by  the Queen of Spain, and some of them were  discovered in the name of that country. We have  changed hands since then, several times, passing  from Spanish to French, and most of us are now  British, some s‘ ll being French, some Dutch, some  American, We are willing and anxious to give every  assistance possible to Unesco in its labours, to help  educate the peoples of the world, to improve world  - 54 -     MEETINGS  conditions, and to make the people a happier people.
(90) I would like here to express my thanks to the  United Kingdom delegation for sponsoring us, and to  you, the delegates of the various nations, for so  readily supporting our application,
(91) In our territory free primary education is com-  pulsory by law, We have secondary education, and  a recently erected University College. We have the  one and only Imperial College of Tropical Agricult-  ure, from which sons and daughters from many parts  of the world come to us to increase their knowledge  of agriculture, We cover a wide area, and we are  confident that Unesco and its officials will find ample  opportunity in our territory to practise the work for  which this Organization was founded, I can say on  behalf of my people that we are prepared to give all  support to any measure, brought forward by any  territory, which will assist in achieving the aim for  which this institution stands,
(92) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call upon the representative of the Gold Coast.
(93) Mr. ERZUAH (Gold Coast): It was with a deep  sense of gratification that I heard that, on the motion  of the United Kingdom, the Gold Coast had been ac-  cepted as an Associate Member of Unesco. Iam  proud to be my country's first delegate and to have  the honour of expressing to this assembly the grati-  tude of my Government and the people of the Gold  Coast on an occasion to which we have been keenly  looking forward.
(94) The aims of Unesco, which we have shared  since its inception, are well known and sincerely  cherished by us, and I am grateful for this opportu-  nity of saying how glad we are that we have been able  both to contribute to and to receive from Unesco,  The people of my country can be depended on to play  their part to an ever-increasing extent in promoting  the advancement of knowledge and mutual understand-  ing for the cause of peace and the common welfare of  mankind,
(95) The Gold Coast is not a large country and its  population of about four and a half millions is chiefly  concerned with agriculture and the natural products  of the earth, but everywhere throughout the length  and breadth of the land there is a burning zeal to  increase and diffuse knowledge and thereby to create  a fuller and richer community life. The whole sys-  tem of formal education, which comprises the free  primary schools and the middle schools, with a com-  bined enrolment of half a million boys and girls, the  commercial schools, the secondary grammar and  technical schools, the teacher training colleges and,  at the apex, the College of Technology, Arts and  Science and the University College, is being expand-  ed as fast as building capacity and the supply of  teachers, both local and from abroad, permit, In  this system equality of educational opportunity and  insistence on the highest international standards of  learning are paramount factors. The University  College of the Gold Coast, which, like most of the  secondary institutions and the College of Technology,  Arts and Science, has complete academic indepen-  dence, is a symbol of our determination to prepare  our people for the responsibilities of independence.
(96) 1 should like to draw attention to the success   PLENARY  which our efforts in fundamental education have  achieved. Already by this means close on fifty  thousand people have obtained ccrtificates of literacy  in accordance with the recommendations of Unesco  experts; also a strong nation-wide movement of  community development has been launched for the  promotion of all forms of betterment - in agriculture,  health, communications, village improvement and  the joy of living. The success of the Mass Education  Teams throughout the country has lead to the provi-  sion of an extension service for the Departments of  Government operating in rural areas, whereby the  purposes of those departments can be the sooner  achieved, whether they be improved methods of  housing or agriculture or sanitation, better water  supplies, roads, or any other cf the .nany services  provided for rural development by the Government.  All this is already known to Unesco. In fact the  fundamental education work of the Mass Education  Teams has been included in Unesco's Associated  Projects Scheme for the last three years,
(87) In the sphere of adult education, the needs of  both urban and rural areas are being progressively  met. We are proud of our national library system,  which, I think, may claim to be one of the best in all  Africa. The Extra-Mural Studies Department of the  University College of the Gold Coast, through tutorial  classes in liberal studies and also, in co-operation  with the People's Educational Association, a  national independent and voluntary body, through se-  minars and short courses in a wide range of subjects,  provides opportunities for the spread of culture and  learning throughout the country.
(98) Shortly before I left the Gold Coast to come  here, an inaugural meeting was held of the National  Commission, which will now become the co-ordinating  body to direct the energies of the Gold Coast into  the service of Unesco. I do not wish to take up  too much of your time, but I should like to ‘ay - as  an earnest of my country's determination to propa-  gate Unesco's aims for the good of its people and of  all other peoples - that the supporting bodies, which  are for the most part independent of Government and  which consist very largely of unofficial members,  represent the diversified educational, scientific and  cultural life of the country that the new Government  of the Gold Coast is so keen to foster. We have sup-  porting bodies for Social Sciences, Philosophy and  Humanistic Studies, Arts and Letters, Museums,  Monuments and Relics, and Natural Sciences, apart  from those for Fundamental Education, formal edu-  cation and libraries, which subjects I have already  briefly touched upon. I do not wish to create an  impression of complacency. We are far from com-  placent and are only too anxious to learn and to have  the advice and aid of experts, but we can and shall  co-operate to the full extent of our ability and, byso  doing, I believe we may - in humble measure - be  able to assist others not so fortunately placed as  ourselves.
(99) On behalf of my country and people, I express  to this assembly my sincere gratitude and 1 pro-  mise our full co-operation in the furtherance of the  great ideals of Unesco.
(100) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call on the delegate of Sierra Leone.  - 55 -     MEETINGS 11-3
(101) Mr, BLYDEN (Sierra Leone): Mr, President,  ladies and gentlemen, I stand here filled with a sense  of pride and satisfaction, of humility and gratitude,  the first duly accredited representative of my Govern-  ment and people to one of the principal international  agencies of our times concerned with the educational,  scientific and cultural advancement of mankind,
(102) As a student of history, and political history at  that, particulary the history of dependent peoples in  the modern world, 1 cannot but be deeply moved at  finding myself in an assembly of world leaders on a  basis of full-fledged equality with sovereign indepen-  dent nations, excepting only as regards the privilege  of the vote, a matter which we know, in the years  ahead, will receive the desired corrective. Never-  theless, on behalf of the Government and people of  Sierra Leone whom ! represent, I deem it a great  honour to be the one chosen to convey to you our most  cordial thanks and felicitations at this meeting of the  eighth session of the General Conference of Unesco  in the city of Montevideo. There is, in my judgment,  honourable delegates and ladies and gentlemen, a  threefold significance in this meeting,
(103) First, I personally, as a student of contempo-  rary international relations, view it as more than a  mere accident of history that this great nation of  Uruguay, with its past and present history largely  saturated with the literary ideas and influence of  such illustrious names as those of Francisco Suarez,  Francisco de Vitoria, Jean de Brie and others of the  Spanish School of International Law and Jurispru-  dence, who first enunciated the idea of incorporating  within the family of nations both sovereign and depen-  dent peoples alike - that this great nation of Uruguay  should be the nation to play host to a gathering of  sovereign and non-sovereign peoples, close on four  centuries after the theory was first enunciated,
(104) Secondly, it may not be known that the country  known as Sierra Leone, lying 7 to 10 degrees north  latitude, with a population of 2 million people, is the  country of the African continent which enjoyed the  earliest contact with the outside world. The records  of antiquity, notably the Periplus of Hanno, affordus  our earliest source of documentary reference re-  garding the country I here represent, We are told  that about the year 500 B.C., under the direction of  Hanno, the great Carthaginian, an expedition visited  the coast of Africa on the Guinea Coast and reached  the land which was later to be rediscovered by Pedro  de Cintra in 1462, and named by him Sierra Leone or  the "Lion Mountains". Fromthat moment, by a paradox  of human history, the current of history unleashed  its rage upon a people whose only ineptitude  and deficiency - if so it is - lie in their conservatism  and over-developed sense of respect for law and  order, in their strong affinity for causes not unrelated  to the universal search for a world constitutional  régime, in which all shall live in amicable  coexistence - nations and peoples striving together in  peace and freedom as brothers of the human race,  And, if you will permit a diversion, I think our admit-  tance to this august body without a single negative  vote from any of the delegations (a fact for which I  am grateful) is indeed indicative of the trend of the  human mind and spirit, a sign that the world is  moving towards a universal order in which nations  shall not quarrel to prove which is the stronger.   -3. PLENARY  Indeed, lest this equally significant fact go unrecord-  ed, let me again remind you that Sierra Leone, having  served as one of the principal stampeding grounds  for the nefarious traffic in slaves, was later, under  the aegis of Great Britain, to become the rehabilita-  tion centre for those of our ancestors to whom the  famous Mansfield Decision of 1772 and the indefati-  gable efforts of 18th Century abolitionists in England  were to bring liberation and ultimate emancipation,  Thus, Sierra Leone became the experimental station,  as it were, in which the principle which has now be-  come an accepted doctrine of international relations,  namely, the doctrine of Trusteeship, enunciated by  Edmund Burke, was to be practised. It is generally  forgotten, too, that, fully 24 hours before the great  Convention was to sit in Philadelphia on 10 May 1787,  fully twenty-four months before the revolutionary  cries of Liberté, Egalité, Fraternité were to be  heard in the blood-strewn streets of Paris, Sierra  Leone, conceived in the minds of its founders as "a  free Negro State, a free Commonwealth", was al-  ready practising the art of self-government with a  franchise enjoyed by all, "black and white alike, on  the basis of full equality’, The circumstances lead-  ing to our long-delayed entrance into formal member -  ship of the family of nations are too well-known to  bear recounting. And, even were it not so, it would  ill become the representative of a people who make  a boast of their loyalty to the cause of peace and har-  mony to indulge in recriminations over events which,  measured by this grand event we are now witnessing,  would appear but just another in the long series of  human indiscretions and humanfollies. Let me invoke  the authority of the ancient classicists who remind  us throughout the years, "Tempora mutantur et nos  mutamur in illis'; and today I stand here the freely  chosen representative of my Government and  people to participate in the deliberations of this  assembly.
(105) A last aspect of this historic meeting lies, I  think, in the fact that the region of the African Conti-  nent which is here represented by the Gold Coast and  Sierra Leone (the region loosely described as West  Africa) is what may be termed, in my judgment, a  veritable United Nations in miniature, Here in West  Africa is to be found every known type of political  organization in the modern world, and for all of which  I am happy to note there is ample provision in the  Charter of the United Nations, with more and better  provisions to come, we hope.
(106) First, there is the sovereign Republic of Libe-  ria, which has wrestled with the wind for upwards of  a century and more and is one of the original signa-  tories of the Caarter. Then thei e are the Trust  - 56 -     MEETINGS  Territories of Togoland and the Cameroons,  provided for inChapters 12and 13 of the Charter, and  lastly, there are the traditional political subdivisions  of Colonies and Protectorates, one of which I  represent, whose interests are safeguarded by the  provisions of Chapter 11 of the Charter - the Decla-  ration regarding non-self-governing peoples, Finally,  this region is also that particular segment of the  Atlantic coast which, in better and more harmonious  days, when the champions of democracy stood toge-  ther during World War II - the USSR, the United  States of America, Great Britain, their European  and Commonwealth allies - this is the region which  these allies in the cause of democracy were so eager  to defend against the onslaught of the enemy, recog-  nizing as they did the rôle of West Africa as one of  the physical and natural bastions of the twentieth-  century democratic world.
(107) Speaking therefore, on behalf of my Government  and people, let me say, now that we have been made  fully accredited Associate Members of Unesco, that  we shall construe our role in this Organization to be,  not one of mere observers or silent partners, but of  participants, dynamic actors in the great drama of  helping to eradicate, not only from backward and  undeveloped territories but even from some of the  more advanced nations, those proverbial ills of illi-  teracy, disease, poverty, inequalities of various  kinds, and, finally, enslavement of the mind and body  which have plagued mankind throughout the ages. We  shall, wherever possible, make available to Unesco  our special African talents and skills in the employ-  ment of tools and techniques which, in our own social  and cultural backgrounds, have heen proven useful  and effective in the harmonization of local conflicts  between tribes, as well as in the furtherance of the  principles of mediation, conciliation and arbitration  for which the United Nations stand. Let us look for-  ward to the day when the mind of man shall no longer  be shackled and we shall live, in the language of the  great Indian Nobel prize winner, Rabindranath Tagore,  in an atmosphere "where the mind of man is without  fear, and knowledge is free, and men are no longer  divided by narrow domestic walls". If we succeed in  bringing to the world community, from the once Dark  Continent of Africa, our own peculiar share of insight  and experience into the work of this great Organiza-  tion, you will have yourselves to thank and to congra-  tulate, ladies and gentlemen of this assembly, for  having participated in one of the noblest gestures of  the international community.  The meeting rose at 1.30 p.m.