IV-21 PROGRAMME AND  separately. T..e projects under paragraph 175 had  been started in 1953-54 under Studies on Discrimina-  tion. In future work, however, the studies of ethniu  groups would have to be considered together with  those in paragraph 206.
(102) Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia), referring to  paragraph 176, said that it would be preferable to  study the impact of Western culture and economy on    BUDGET COMMISSION  the African ethruc group as a whole, rather than the  impact of one African group upon another. Whether  or not one group was Westernized, the impact came  from outside and not from within
(103) A vote was taken on paragraphs 181-183 and  they were approved unanimously.  The meeting rose at 1 p.m.  TWENTY - FIRST MEETING
1 December 1954 at 3 p.m,  Chairman: Mr. THA HLA (Union of Burma)  later: Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland)  ITEM 8.4.2 OF REVISED AGENDA : WAT RAL SCIENCES-  (continued)  Resolution 2.41 (paragraph 145) (continued)
(1) The CHAIRMAN askcd the Commission to resume  consideration of paragraph 145, which had been  discussed at the meeting before the last.
(2) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  thought he could end the previous day's misunder-  standing by clarifying the situation.
(3) He drew delegates! attention to document
8C/DIV/129, which showed a difference of $59, 992  between the 1953-54 appropriations for the Science  Co-operation Office in New Delh{ and the 1955-56  estimates. That figure was very close to the  $60, 000 on which the vote had been taken.
(4) After briefly recalling the facts, Mr. Maheu said  that, as the result of a remark by one of his  colleagues on the interpretation which the Indian  delegate might have given to the word “present” when  asking for the post to be maintained at its present  level, he had thought he had made a mistake in  quoting the figure of $60,000, He had beiieved that  the Indian delegate had been asking on behalf of the  Delhi Office, not the present (1954) appropriation of  $95, 580 for two years, but those now proposed for
1955-56, i.e. something like $150, 000 for the two  years. If that had been so, the difference compared  with the Director-General's estimate would have been,  not $60, 000, but around $120, 000. He had thought it  necessary to inform delegates accordingly.
(5) If the Indian delegation simply wished the Office  to be maintained at the 1953-54 level, the sum voted  upon was correct, and there was no need to go back  on that vote.
(6) The CHAIRMAN thanked Mr. Maheu for his  explanation and informed him that, at the morning  meeting, the delegate of Liberia had withdrawn his  statement of the previous night. He thought that the  - 410 -     Commission could consider the question of the  Indian Office settled.
(7) Mr. HOPE (United States of America) asked  whether the project had been re-established at the  level of the 1953-94 budget, pointing out that if that  were so, the amount of money provided would be  inadequate for the successful operation of the Office.  He had understood that an additional sum of  $150, 000 over and above the amount provided for in  the 1953-54 budget would be required for its  successful operation.
(8) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  confirmed that, with $60, 000 in addition to the  appropriations suggested by the Direcior-General,  the Delhi Office cculd be maintained n+ **< < == __  level (1953-54).
(9) He recallad that the abolition of the Office had  been suggested in order that larger sums might be  allocated to the three other science co-operation  offices. Though wishing to increase the efficiency  of the offices, the Director General and the  Director of the Department of Natural Sciences had  not felt able to ask for larger appropriations for all  of them, and had thought that the best solution would  be to close the Office in the most highly developed  region.
(10) Mr. Maheu said that the situation resulting  from the decisions taken was as follows: three  science co-operation offices would receive consi-  derably larger appropriations, while the fourth, the  Delhi Office, would be maintained at its present  level with the help of the $60, 000 to be added to the  Director-General's budget estimate.
(11) Mr. HOPE (United States of America) was  satisfied with the explanation but not satisfied that  the Commission was acting in accordance with the  plan for remodelling the programme. He thought  that the line taken by the Commission was contrary  to the policy of concentrating on fewer projects in   PROGRANNE AND  order to be able to give them adequate help.
(12) Mrs. PINTO DE VIDAL (Uruguay) asked  whether it was intended to abolish the Science Co-  operation Office for Latin America, which had its  headquarters in Montevideo.
(13) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) said that the Montevideo Office appeared  in the programme with an increased appropriation and  that no change was contemplated in regard to it.
(14) Paragraphs 176-184 were approved.  (As the Commission had next to examine the chapter  on Cultural Activities, the meeting was suspended  for 5 minutes. Mr. Bourgeois took the Chair.)
(15) The CHAIRMAN consulted delegates on the  procedure to be adopted to shorten meetings and  enable the Commission to complete its examination  of the programme within the desired time.
(16) Mr. PANNETON (Canada) proposed that both  the number and length of speeches should be limited.
(17) The delegate of Chile suggested that speeches  be limited to three minutes while the delegate of  Poland proposed a limit of three to five mirutes.
(18) Mr. BRICHET (France) thought it would be  unfortunate to limit the discussion when questions  of substance and not of procedure were under  consideration. In his opinion, it would be wise,  before taking Draconian measures, to see how  delegations used the freedom of speech allowed to  them on the Cultural Activities chapter.
(19) The French delegate asked that the maximum  length of speeches should not be less than five  minutes, adding that his delegation was ready to  attend as many evening meetings as might be  necessary for a full exchange of views.
(20) Mr. PANNETON (Canada) thought that the  Chairman should be left to limit the number and  length of speeches as he thought necessary.
(21) Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom) pro-  posed that the length of speeches should be limited  to three minutes unless special permission were  given for an extension of that time and that there  should be no limitation on the number of speakers.
(22) By 35 votes to 6 it was decided to limit speeches  to three minutes.  {23) The CHAIRMAN said that the Commission had  to examine a considerable number of draft resolu-  tions, together with the observations made on them  by the Advisory Committee on Programme and  Budget. The Executive Board had not studied all the  drafts as some of them had arrived too late.
(24) As the Commission's chief responsibility was  to vote on the proposed resolutions in the programme  and draw up a work plan in conformity with them,  the Chairman thought it would be wise not to examine  draft resolutions bearing reference numbers above  DR/61, but to refer them to the Secretariat with a  - 411 -     BUDGET COMMISSION IV-21  request that they be given as much attention as  possible.
(25) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) submitted a  proposal to that effect, which was seconded by the  delegate of New Zealand and adopted by 31 votes to
3, with 1 abstention.
(26) Mr. LALGIER (France) said that, while his  delegation approved the decision to limit speeches  on the different items in the programme to three  minutes, it thought that greater freedom should be  left to members of the Commission in the general  discussion at the beginning of each chapter. He  thought it would be difficult for delegations to  expound their views in three minutes.
(27) It was decided that the limit on the length of  speeches should not apply to the general discussion.  ITEM 8.4.4 OF REVISED AGENDA CULTURAL ACTIVITIES
(28) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) said that the chapter on Cultural  Activities, like the other chapters in the programme,  was divided into two sections, the first of which  dealt with general, and the second with special,  activities.
(29) The activities covered by the first section,  designed to develop cultural co-operation between  Member States, were planned as a preparation and  backing for the work of the secund section, and tu  furnish guidance thereon. By way of example, Mr  Thomas mentioned the work undertaken by Unesco to  help Member States to develop their libraries, and  the exchange of information between museums, which  took practical form in the publication of Museum.
(30) The Director of the Department of Cultura!  Activities emphasized how important the co-operation  of international non-governmental crganizations was  to Unesco's cultural activities. Those organizations  offered all specialists in cultural activities an  opportunity for contacts and exchanges with other  countries. They supported and guided the work of  the Secretariat and were the best guarantee of its  success. Unesco handed over to reliable non-  governmental organization: of that sort certain  specialized activities which would call for large funds  and staff if the Organization undertook them itself.  Finally, in many cases where value judgments were  needed, those organizations, which were non-political  and consisted of competent people, saved Unesco  from taking decisions that might compromise it or  cause difficulties.
(31) The Secretariat did not contemplate increasing  subventions to the associations; it tended more and  more to replace subventions by contracts, in  accordance with the directives issued by the General  Conference and the Executive Board.
(32) The second section of the chapter comprised  three main headings. Under the first, "Preservation  of the cultural heritage of mankind", the Secretariat  sought to give direct, practical aid to Member  States, for instance, by sending them missions of  experts. Under the second heading, "Humanistic  studies in culture and education", the Secretariat,   IV-21 PROGRAMME AND  convinced that education and cultural activities should  not be kept in separate watertight compartments,  tried to develop co-operation between teachers and  specialists in cultural activities and to bring  hbraries and museums increasingly into the work of  schools. Under the third heading, "Culture and  international understanding’, were listed thirteen  activities for the promotion of international under-  standing. Mr. Thomas pointed out that one of the  best ways of teaching people to know and understand  each other was to encourage contacts between  different cultures.
(33) The programme also provided for the develop-  ment of other activities: the use of modern methods  of reproducing works of art, translation of  representative works of different cultures, and a  history of the cultural and scientific development of  mankind.
(34) Mr. Thomas explained that the Secretariat, In  what might seem an arbitrary classification of  activities under three headings, had aimed at clarity  and simplicity. The field covered by cultural  activities was enormous, reaching on one side to  the highest spheres of thought, research and artistic  creation and, on the other, to the dissemination  among the masses of the products of that thought,  knowledge and creation. In drawing up the pro-  gramme, the main concern had been for greater  concentration and better co-ordination of cultural  activities with those of other departments.
(35) Mr. Thomas added that the extreme diversity  of cultural life should not be forgotten and that  Unesco's work in that field had to take into account  factors even more complex than those involved in  education, science or mass communication, and to  be organized with even greater caution and flexibility.
(36) Mr. UNGARETTI (Italy) congratulated Mr.  Thomas on the work accomplished by his Department.
(37) He asked that no effort should be spared to  spread culture by fundamental education and thus  encouraging higher standards in the arts and  literatura. But he also urged that there should be  no pause in the encouragement given to pure research,  the source from which culture drew fresh strength.
(38) The Italian delegate was pleased to learn of the  proposed collaboration between the Departments of.  Cultural Activities and Education, especially with  regard to the production of reading material for new  literates. In that connexion he drew attention to the  difficulty of adapting a classic and advocated the  publication of selected, annotated excerpts from  good authors.
(39) Recalling that the International Association of  the Visual Arts had just adopted its Constitution and  that the International Conference of Artists had  decided that an International Council of Arts and  Letters should next be set up, the Italian delegate  asked the Department of Cultural Activities to  arrange for a study of the question. The Interna-  tional Couacil of Arts and Letters would ensure that  contemporary works of art circulated more easily;  it could also bring knowledge and experience to bear  in the field of copyright, give general guidance in  making works of literature known by broadcasting  and study means of reforming the teaching of the  arts and literature in the schools. As there was no  - 412 -     BUDGET COMMISSION  longer anything to prevent the founding of the  Council, consideration should be given to it without  delay.
(40) Mr. Ungaretti also asked for an increase in the  subvention to the International Association of the  Visual Arts, which would be responsible, among  other tasks, for considering how copyright should be  applied to works of visual art, and which might he  commissioned to reform the curricula of fine ait  schools.
(41) In conclusion, he hoped that a resresentative  of the cinema would be asked to sit on the Interna-  tional Council of Arts and Letters when it was  established.
(42) Mr. MENDIS (Ceylon) said that his Government  attached great importance to cultural activities, in  which field Ceylon as well as other Asian countries  could play an important part.
(43) He offered, on behalf of his Government, to  lend experts on archaeological and historical sites  to other countries which might like to benefit from  the experience gained by work in Ceylon, and asked  the Director of the Department of Cultural Activities  to note that offer.
(44) The delegation of Ceylon was particularly  interested in resolution 4. 23, (paragraphs 145-147),  but wondered whether the provision made would meet  the requirements of Member States. While not  suggesting an increase, he would ask that the needs  of Asian countries be given greater attention and  emphasis when planung the programme for 1957-58
(45) Mr. RIVET (France) was pleased at the amount  of the Cultural Activities budget allocated to  subventions to International non-governmental  organizations, - .
(46) His delegation believed that those organizations  provided an effective and economical means of  increasing international co-operation and enlisting  the support of intellectual circles, which had  shown a tendency to ignore Unesco.  It was therefore advisable to assist the non-  governmental organizations by subventions, however  small, and to neglect no means of developing them  and securing better co-ordination among them.
(47, Mr. Rivet endorsed the Norwegian delegate's  request for an increase in the subvention to the  International Council for Philosophy and Humanistic  Studies.
(48) Like the Italian delegate, he wished to see the  International Council of Arts and Letters brought  into existence.
(49) The French delegation was in favour of the  project for the translation of representative works  of different cultures, but in his opinion the National  Commissions should be more closely associated  with it.
(50) Mr. Rivet emphasized the importance of  museums in education; he thought that all Member  States should take steps to make it easier for  everyone to visit museums, particularly by opening  them in the evening without raising the admission  charge.
(51) With regard to the history of the scientific and  cultural drvelopment of mankind, the French  delegate recalled that the idea of such a publication   PROGRAMME AND  had been brought up by the French delegation at the  Beirut Conference. He was surprised to see,  however, that the material collected to date was a  meagre basis for a definitive work. Moreover, he  had noticed that several publishing houses had  announced the publication of similar works.
(52) Mr. Rivet hoped that the States recently  admitted to Unesco would be asked to contribute to  the history of the scientific and cultural development  of mankind and that there would be genuine interna-  tional collaboration on the subject.
(53) Mr. HOPE (United States of America) indicated  that the United States delegation was deeply  interested in cultural activities and would support in  a general way the programme as outlined. He sug-  gested that the General Conference should Invite  representatives of the arts, such as composers,  actors and painters, to be present at the next General  Conference. Concerts and exhibitions by interna-  tionally known artists during the session of a  General Conference would do much towards teaching  foreign culture. He had just read the report received  from Paris on the possibilities of teaching interna-  tional understanding. Irbis opinion, the best  opportunity to achieve that international understanding  was through cultural activities. The Director-  General might be requested to take that into account  when considering his future programmes.
(54) Unesco could contribute through its cultural  activities to the technical assistance programme by  exchanging exhibitions of art between East and West.
(55) Mr. SOLODOVNIKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) said that the development of cultural  collaboration was very important and helped to  ensure peace.
(56) The Government of the Soviet Union was  interested in improving cultural relations between  the peoples, and his delegation therefore supported  that item in the programme.
(57) The USSR was anxious to take an active part in  preparing the cultural and scientific history of  mankind. It should be mentioned that, in the Soviet  Union, five million people devoted their leisure time  to musical activities, ballet, the visual arts, and  so on, and their assistance in such work wouid be of  considerable value.
(58) He considered that Unesco should concentrate  on: (1) helping underdeveloped countries, (2) making  the masterpieces of art better known, by means of  reproductions, recordings and films, in that con-  nexion the Soviet delegation was convinced that Soviet  music and films would win a high place at  international exhibitions; (3) translating represen-  tative works of all countries in accordance with  resolution 4. 44.
(59) Mr. THA MYAT (Union of Burma) congratulated  the Director-General on the lucid presentation of  the programme. In his opinion the two sections had  been integrated in a workable form.
(60) He thought that the highest priority should be  given to work which would foster international  urderstanding and for that reason he would like to  emphasize the importance to Unesco of the  co-operation between specialists in Section I.  - 413 -     BUDGET COMMISSION IV-21
(01) He welcomed the proposals for technical aid  to Member States and the 1dea of presenting African  and Asian culture to the Western world, He  considered that international understanding could be  obtained through cultural activities as easily as  through education and science.
(62) He was disappointed with the small funds which  had been made available for the programme  activities. Cultural institutes were as important as  fundamental education centres for the promotion of  international understanding.
(63) He pointed out that in the fundamental education  centre in Burma a national museum, national library  and national art gallery had been set up. In those  centres the modern cultures of various linguistic  areas of South East Asia and Burma were presented  for comparative study. Up to the present funds had  not been sufficient to cover that work. The preser*  programme was partly a corrective. He asked the  Secretariat to consider an equitable adjustment for  future programmes.
(64) Mr. IBANEZ-GOMEZ (Chile) said that cultural  activities were of great importance to Latin America,  and especially to his country. His delegation was  pleased to see the preferential treatment given to  those activities in the programme, and hoped the  appropriations for them would not be reduced, even  in the smallest degree.
(65) He was glad that work had started on the trans-  lation of works by Latin American authors, and paid  tribute to Unesco's efforts to preserve the cultural,  artistic and archaeological heritage of mankind.
(66) He thought that greater assistance should be  given to non-governmental organizations such as the  International Theatre Institute, the International  Union of Architects, the Association of  Universities, etc,
(67) Exhibitions should be developed and cbstacles  to the free flow of books removed: the Uigamzation  should also induce Member States to ratify the  Copyright Convention, signed in Geneva in 1952.
(68) Inconclusion, he proposed that a meeting of  outstanding personalities in the fields of science,  literature, the visual arts and cultural activities,  should be held in New Delhi during the ninth session  of the General Conference; sucha meeting would  mark a considerable advance 1n the promotion of all  those branches of activity.
(69) Miss NEFFA (Lebanon), commenting on the  Cultural Activities chapter, said that it was  commonly thought that the principal needs of Member  States were the extension of education and the  development of science teaching, But many countries  reveal enormous shortcomings with regard to the  dissemination of culture.
(70) It was desirable that Unesco should extend its  collaboration to all peoples and not allow the  European continent to monopolize cultural  associations.
(71) She also criticized the common view of culture  as a means rather than as an end and the tendency  to use the cultural and artistic heritage of mankind  as a tool.  Unesco should be congratulated on its efforts  to safeguard and develop all cultures,   IV-21 PROGRAMME AND
(72) Mr. WADIA (India) said that his delegation con-  sidered cultural activities closely linked with the  peaceful future of the world. Extreme specialization  was the tragedy of education. To counteract that  tragedy it was necessary to broaden education by  including humanistic studies. “Culture” was difficult  to define but involved a keenness to know and under-  stand other peoples and their views. The world was  in urgent need of such understanding.
(73) Each country contributed something of value to  human understanding. Humanism would serve as a  check to science but the objectivity present in  scientific studies would have to be applied in  humanistic studies. To obtain that objectivity,  national textbooks needed revising.
(74) He welcomed the international survey of  classical studies and the use of radio and television  for the diffusion of knowledge.
(75) The Eastern countries looked to Unesco to  help them make up for lost time. The Indian Govern-  ment was in a mood to ask for more assistance  although a large amount was already being spent on  cultural activities. He hoped that the Commission  would be sympathetic if it asked for more.
(76) Referring to the suggestion by the United States  delegate concerning the extension of invitations to  artists to attend Unesco's General Conferences, he  said that he would support that suggestion with  pleasure. He himself had made a similar suggestion  informally to the Director of the Department of  Cultural Activities, who had doubted if enough money  could be made available for that purpose. The  speaker had not considered inviting a representative  of each of the arts from each country, but rather  that a careful select.on should be made of represen-  tatives of all the a1:s from various countries. He  hoped the Secretariat would bear the suggestion  in mind
(77) Mr. TUNCEL (Turkey) congratulated Mr.  Thomas on the work embodied in the Cultural Acti-  vities programme, which took account of all the  suggestions made by Member States at the last  session of the Conference.
(78) He drew the Commission's attention to the  importance of that part of the programme and asked  that it be given priority. In his opinion, Unesco's  work could be fully effective only if due use were,  made of culture.
(79) The Turkish delegate hoped that intellectuals  and çreative artists in all Member States would do  all they could to help in carrying out the programme  of Cultural Activities.
(80) Mr. ASTRADA (Argentina) said that Unesco  should harmonize the two fundamental aspects of its  work: planned action in the technical field and  concerted action to spread and foster basic principles  relating to the spiritual side of the life of men and  communities.
(81) His cour‘ry was naturally pacific, by principle,  conviction and sentiment; it therefore believed in  peade through the spirit, by co-operation in creative  endeavour. Unesco's fundamental task was to hasten  the advent of a new humanism in an atmosphere of  harmonious coexistence.
(82) In conformity with those ideas, the Argentine  - 414 -     BUDGET COMMISSION  delegation firmly supported the items in the  programme dealing with humanistic studies,
(83) Mrs. PINTO DE VIDAL (Uruguay) considered  that the Cultural Activities programme was well  framed, and she wished to draw special attention  to the popularizing of the »isual arts and the  development of museums. In that connexion, she  requested support for draft resolution 8C/DR/46,  submitted by Uruguay, which advocated the  establishment of an international museum agency  under the auspices of the municipality of Montevideo  and asked Unesco's aid for that purpose.
(84) She proposed that the Bulletin for Libraries  should neither be reduced in size nor altered in  character,
(85) In conclusion, she pointed out how extremely  important translations of ancient and modern works  were for better understanding between the peoples.
(86) Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom) joined  in emphasizing the work of the non-governmental  organizations, which were keeping up the standards  of value. The maintaining of those standards was of  primary importance to Unesco in face of possible  depreciation.
(87) He welcomed the words of the delegate of the  USSR and his declaration of willingness to co-operate  in cultural activities. The association of members  of the Soviet Union had been missed and he thought  that all would look forward to their co-operation in  the future.
(88) Speaking for the International Council for  Philosophy and Humanistic Studies, he said that  historians as well as the United Kingdom delegation  would look forward to co-operation by the Soviet  Union in its work.
(89) Mr. SHARIF (Pakistan) thought that cultural  activities offered the greatest hope for securing  the ideals of Unesco. For that reason the Pakistan  Government was particularly interested in the  programme of cultural activities.
(90) The promotion of cultural activities in each  Member State was of primary importance in  enriching the life of the citizen. The lack of proper  understanding of different cultures was at the root  of international misunderstanding. It was necessary  to spare no effort in making known to each country  the cultures of other countries. He welcomed the  comment by the delegate of Argentina that all  cultures should live together. Cultural contacts and  international co-operation in the field of culture  would promote a wider feeling of identity of interests  among countries.
(91) His delegation warmly supported the projects  which aimed at promoting libraries, museums,  translation of the classics, international intellectual  co-operation, and the provision of reading material  for literates.
(92) He was also interested in the United States  proposal and hoped that the Secretariat would find  a means of securing its objective.
(93) He suggested that a Secretariat official, an  expert in cultural activities, should be appointed  and an office set up in Pakistan for the supervision  of Unesco work in the field of cultural activities.   PROGRAMME AND  The Pakistan Government would offer facilities for  such an office, such as a building, equipment and  local staff. He would make no specific proposal on  the subject at the present stage but would ask the  Secretariat to consider his suggestion at its  discretion.
(94) Mr. BERGSTRAESSER (German Federal  Republic) expressed the gratitude of his delegation  to Mr. Thomas for the preparation of the document  under discussion, which showed a remarkable degree  of unity.
(95) The German delegation would like to emphasize  the second and third of the groups of activities  proposed by Mr. Thomas and stressed their inter-  connexion. It was important to secure a solid  formation of minds through culture and education  by implementing a growth of respect of one nation  for another. Exchanges of culture wouid eventually  lead every citizen to realize that mankind had a  common basis,
(96) The German delegation was particularly  interested in maintaining or increasing the funds for  projects 4.31, 4.42 and 4. 44, and welcomed the  increase for purposes of exchanging culture. He  concluded by expressing the hope that the Commis-  sion would be united in preserving or increasing the  funds for furthering humanistic studies.
(97) Mrs. LEGARDA (Philippines) appreciated the  programme prepared by the Director of the  Department of Cultural Activities.
(98) She heartily seconded the proposals of the  delegates of the United States of America, Pakistan  and Argentina concerning cultural exchanges.
(99) She emphasized the value of culture in the  education of the young and in the prevention of  Juvenile delinquency. If the young were kept fully  occupied and their minds kept constructively busy,  they would keep out of trouble. In her opinion the  Uruguayan scheme for teaching all the arts to the  young was one which could be usefully followed in  other countries.
(100) Secondly, she emphasized that budget  limitations prevented more being done in the field  of cultural activity. She felt that much could be  achieved if the world could be weaned away from the  trend of sordid materialism and imbued with a  deeper sense of spiritual values.
(101) Mr. NAVRATIL (Czechoslovakia) wished to  make two comments.
(102) On behalf of his delega.ion, he recognized the  important place that should be given to the cultural  activities programme, on condition that, when  carrying it out, the Organization's essential aims  (i.e. international understanding and the development  of national cultures) were kept in view, and that the  Organization's universality was fully maintained.
(103) He also hoped that Unesco's departments would  endeavour to collaborate with his country, which had  hid some experience of the methods of cultural  activity proposed in the programme.
(104) Mr. SANCHEZ REULET (Organization of  American States) said that there were four items in  the Cultural Activities programme which were of  - 415 -     BUDGET COMMISSION IV-21  narticular interest to the States he r:presented:
(1) resolution 4, 33, which authorized the planning  and production of reading material designed for new  literates; (2) the exchange of publications; (3) the  mobile microfilming unit, which should be given top  priority, and (4) the translation of representative  works of latin America. He considered those  activities essential to progress in the A.nerican  States.
(105, Mr. THOMAS (Director, Departmeni cf  Cultural Activities) had been struck by the unamimmaty  of views expressed in the genera’ discussion, which  was most encouraging to the Secretariat.
(106\ He thanked the Organization of American  States for its offer of collaboration, which the  Secretariat would most certainly note. He addea that  close ro-coeration had already been established  between Unesco and that Organization, and had been  strengthened by experience on many occasions.  Paragraphs 1 26
(107) Approved.  Project 4.11: Co-operation with international  cultural orgamzations  Resolutions 4.111 and 4. 112
(108) Mr. BRANCA (Italy) remarked that some of  the associations belonging to the various councils  were members of two or more of them. He wished  to know whether the position was not anomalous  and whether the associations concerned received a  subvention through each of the councils to which  they belonged.
(109) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) replied that the principle of  multiple affiliation according to the diverse interests  of the associations was recognized and legitimate.  If an international orgamzation received two sub-  ventions by virtue of its membership of two councils,  that was not inadvertent, each of the two subventions  was intended for different work.
(110) Paragraphs 30 and 31 were approved.
(111) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commis-  sion) read out the recommendation of the Advisory  Committee on Programme and Budget for increasing  the proposed subvention to the International Council  for Philosophy and Humanistic Studies.
(112) Mr. SYME (Representative of the International  Council for Philosophy and Humanistic Studies)  was grateful for the opportunity to address the  Commission.
(113) The Commission would find in document
3C/ADM/20 an account of the different federations  within the Council. In addition, he expected a  report on the work of the Council for the last three  years to arrive from Paris. That report would be  available to all delegates.
(114) Although the Council received money from  Unesco, it was neither controlled nor oppressed by   IV-21 PROGRAMME AND  Unesco. The twelve member organizations of the  Council were not oppressed 2.ther and worked freely  in co-operation.
(115) The money received from Unesco was not used  for administrative purposes but for widening the  geographical distribution of its member organizations.
(116) In answer to a quesrion from the delegate of  Canada as to the resources of th: Council outside  the Unesco subvention, Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway)  said that the .nember orgamzatiors paid a percentage  of their income to the Council.
(1i7) When the organization was fcunded in 1949, at  took up projects formerly undertaken by governments  and suspended during the war. As the Council  became better known requests were -eceived from  all parts of the world and it had been {aced with a  dilemma. It had to decide whether to drop old  projects or reduce subventions to projects. It had  chosen to reduce subventions, which was regrettable  as it meant that international co-operation was  slowed down.
(118) He proposed that the subvention to the Council  should be increased by $10, 000 per annum 1n the  interests of concentration,
(119) Mr. BRICHET (France) seconded the  Norwegian delegate's proposal.
(120) The French delegation, realizing the possibie  effect of the proposal on the balance of the budget,  was thinking of suggesting cuts in v her parts of the  programme.
(121) Mr THA HLA (Union of Eurma) observed that  international organizations conformed to the spirit  of Unesco but suggested that they should be requested  to become more truly international.
(122) Mr HOPE (United States of America)  supported the Norwegian proposal.
(123) He stressed the importance of international  understanding and suggested that international  organizations should be reminded that a subventiorn  from Unesco included an understanding that they  would further Unesco aims in that direction.
(124) With regard to the financing of orgamzations  and Unesco's relations to such financing he mentioned  that an organization to which he had belonged had .  received a substantial subvention for three years  from an outside body. It had taken three years for  the Secretariat of the organizatic:. to discover that  it had received that subvention. He proposed that  the Secretariat should be aske? to study carefully the  administrative awareness of organizations before  granting them subventions.
(125) Miss BOLLO (Uruguay) urged that, although  all international organizations deserved Unesco's  support, additional assistance should be given, in  particular, to the PEN clubs.
(126) Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom)  strongly supported the Norwegian proposal. The  subvention could be used for the express purpose of  carrying out the suggesiion of the delegate of Burma.  As a member of the International Council for  Philosophy and Humanistic Studies, he assured the  - 416 -     BUDGET COMMISSION  delegate of the United States of America that a  situation similar to that he had mentioned could not  arise in the Council.
(127) Mr. SUZUKI (Japan) supported the Norwegian  delegate's proposal.
(128) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) reminded the Commission that,  at the beginning of the meeting, after pointing out  the benefits the Secretariat derived from the co-  operation of the non-governmental organizations,  he had explained the policy adopted with regard  to them.
(129) The International Council for Philosophy and  Humanistic Studies cer carnly did excellent work,  but if the Commission agreed to increase the funds  allotted to it, that might upset the balance of the  budget. The additional appropriation voted would  have to be taken from some other item.
1130) There were other organizations which also  jeserved increased grants and, if the Commission  embarked upon such a course, it might find itself  in a dilemma.
(131) Mr. SOLODOVNIKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) thought that the gratitude expressed to  the Department of Cultural Activities during the  discuss'on should be shown by reposing greater  confidence in it.
(132) When the Natural Sciences programme was  examined the Commission had decided to leave the  Secretariat to go into the details of subventions. It  should follow the same procedure with regard to  cultural activities instead of taking hasty decisions.
(133) The CHAIRMAN put ihe Norwegian delegate's  proposal to the vote.
(134) Adopted by 16 votes to 7, with 21 abstentions.  Paragraphs 36-41
(135) The CHAIRMAN said that the Advisory  Committee had made no comments on those  paragraphs.
(136) Mr. FORSYTH (New Zealand) intimated that  he had received definite instructions from his  National Commission to express its appreciation of  the work of the International Council of Museums.  The benefit from the Unesco subvention was clearly  felt. He hoped that the vote just taken would not  result in a cut of the subvention to the International  Council of Museums.
(137) Mr. BRICHET (France) drew the Commis-  sion's attention to the International Council of  Museums, whose work was increasing and which  was gaining in authority every day.
(138) His delegation attac::ed especial importance  to the work of that organization, which could be  particularly heipful to the underdeveloped countries.
(139) Referringtothe proposed subventionto the Inter-  national Music Council, which was $ 24, 000, while that  to ICOM was no more than $ 20, OCT, the French delegate  asked that the two subventions oe better balanced.   PHOGEKAMYE AND
(140) Sir Charles WEBSTER ( nited Kingdom)  seconded that proposal.
(141) Mr THOMAS (Director, Departn'ent of  Cultural Activities) remarked that the International  Council of Museums was the only organization in the  Cultural Activities chapter to which the Secretar.at  had proposed an increased sut vention.
(142) The International Music Council was growing  rapidly and had recently set up numerous national  committees as well as regional councils for South  Asia, the Far East and America. The Secretariat  would be extremely sorry 1f the proposed subvention  to that organization were reduced.
(143) Mr. Thomas added that all the orgamzations  receiving subventions had asked for larger sums  than those allotted, but the Secretariat's decisions  had been communicated to them.
(144) Mr BRANCA (Italy) observed that the  International Music Council included several associa-  tions among which the proposed subvention would  be divided.
(145) Vrs. LEGARDA (Philippines) stressed the  importance of not cutting, but if possible increasing  the subvention to the International Music Council.  {146) She reminded the Commission that a regional  conference of the Council was being planned next  year in Manila That conference was being organized  on the understanding that the subvention would not  be reduced.
(147) In the light of the information just given,  Mr. BRICHET (France) thought it better to withdraw  his proposal, but he asked the Secretariat to note  his remarks with a view to placing the two  associations on an equal footing when future  prog. ommes were drawn up.
(148) As there was no discussion on paragraphs
39-41, paragraphs 32-45 were approved.  International Union of Architects (paragraphs 46-48)
(149) Mr. MARDCNES RESTAT (Chile) (International  Union of Architects) said that the subvention that his  organization received from Unesco ($500 a year) was  the smallest allotted to any international non-  governmental orgainzation, He wished to point out  that the history of culture was bound up with the  history of architecture, a fact recogmzed in the  Unesco emblem itself, which depicted the fagade of  a Greek temple.
(150) Mr. Mardones Restat proposed that the Unesco    - 417 -  COMMISSION Iv-21  subvention to the International Union of Architects  be raised to $5, 000 a ycar.
(151) Nr. BRICHET (Frunce) supported the  proposal of the Chilean delegate.
(152) His country had welcomed the foundation of  the International Union of Architects with lively  satisfaction. For a long tin e, artists had shown  little enthusiasm for taking part in Unesco's worn.  The Union's membership represented architects  throughout the world, irrespective of school, it was  arranging a Congress to study problems connected  with the training of architects and with travelling  exhibitions. The Union should therefore be given  whole-hearted encouragement.
(153) The French delegate asxed that the proposed  subvention to the International Union of Architects  be raised to $5, OUU for each of the two years.
(154) Mr. BERGSTRAESSER (German Federal  Republic) reminded the Commission that every  increase voted would necessitate a decrease or cut  elsewhcre in the programme. Each project had its  individual value.
(155) He thought it would be wise to adopt a  procedure whereby no increases could be proposed  without a statement of where the money was to  come from.
(156) The CHAIRMAN felt that the Comnission  would find itself in a dilemma :f it proposed reduc-  tions one the one side and increases on the other.  Such a course seemed to him dangerons.
(157) Mr. LINKSON (Australia) thought that con-  sideration should be given to the remarks of the  delegate of the German Federal Republic. All the  organizations deserved all the support which Unesco  was able to give them. He thought that the Commis-  sion should restrict itself to the means which were  known to it and should keep a rational balance. He  reminded the Commission that the various subven-  tions had been carefully examined by the Secretariat  during the preparation of the budget and programme  and since then, by the Advisory Committee. He  warned against allowing generous instincts to  overcome common sense. It would be unwise to  continue voting increases unless the Commission  were prepared to accept later cuts in the programme.
(158) The CHAIRMAN thought that, as the Chilean  and French delegates maintained their proposal, 1t  would be best to postpone the question until the next  meeting.  The meeting rose at 7 p. m.