v-29 PROGRAMME AND  that the Secretariat would consider the possibility of  transfers from other parts of the programme to  increase study grants in 1955-56 and that more  attention would be given to that aspect of the  department's activities in 1957-58.
(88) Paragraphs 92-97 were approved.  Project 6.34: Exchange of Teachers  Paragraphs 98-102 and draft resoiution 8C/DR/23,
(89) Mr, CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commission)  drew attention to the Advisory Committee's recom-  mendation that draft resolution 8C/DR/23 be  considered by the Director-General when preparing  the 1957-58 programme.
(50) Mr. VITO (Italy) introducing document 8G/DR/23,  which had been submitted by his delegation, stressed  the mutual .nterest of Unesco and the International  Association of University Professors and Lecturers,  the recent international conference had greatly  appreciated the message of support received from  the Director-General. Reports at that conference  had emphasized the importance of the study being  carrier out by the Association and the fact that no  other organization was working in that field.
(91) The fact that the number of affiliates was  increasing and now included Canada, Australia and  BUDGET     COMMISSION  other distant countries made it clear that a  contract of $1,000 was inadequate to carry out  the world-wide study of matters connected with the  recruitment, employment and exchange of teaching  staff. He therefore urged that the amount should be  increased to $2,000 for each of the years 1955  and 1956.
(92) Mrs, PECSON (Executive Board) said that  the proposals in draft resolution 8C/DR/23 were  already contained in paragraph 101 of the  proposed programme and budget. Taking into  account, however, the resources of the International  Association of University Professors and Lecturers  and the intended programme of action, the Executive  Board had decided to recommend adoption of the  resolution to enable 1h» study to be carried out in a  satisfactory manner.
(93) Miss BOLLO (Uruguay) said that her delegation  warmly supported the Italian proposal.
(94) (Document 8C/DR/23) submitted by the Italian  delegation was approved by 29 votes to 6, with 2  abstentions.  Paragraphs 103-106
(95) Unanimously approved.  The meeting rose at 1 p.m.  TWENTY-NINTH MEETING
1 December 1954 at 3 p.m.  Chairman: Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland)
(1) As there was no quorum the meeting adjourned  for .0 minutes; it then opened in accordance with the  provisions of Rule 69, paragraph 2, of the Rules of  Procedure.  PROPOSAL BY THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL CONCERNING THE  VISUAL INFORMATION SECTION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF  MASS COMMUNICATION (document 8C/PRG/28)
(2) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Commu-  nication) said that the object of the proposal by the  Secretariat was to give effect to suggestions put  forward by several delegations, and particularly by  those of France and Italy. He recalled that the  Commission had decided to set aside a sum of  $50, 000 to develop the activities of the Visual  Information Section. The Director-General considered  that, if the proposals contained in the document were  to be carried out, a sum of $60, 000 would be    necessary. It was therefore  an extra $10,000 be freed.  proposed that
(3) Mr. BENDER (Netherlands) thanked the Secretariat  for the information provided.
(4) It had been intended that $ 50, 000 shouid be  devoted to making a film such as "World Without End",  Then the scheme had been dropped and the Secretariat  had been asked to see whether the money could not be  used for other purposes. Did the reference to the  making of "topical shorts” mean that the scheme was  being taken up in some other form?
(5) Under paragraph 248, no particular provision was  made for staff. Was the one P.5 post proposed in  document 8C/PRG/28 really needed?
(6) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Communi-  cation) said that the proposa! that Unesco should make  another big film had been decisively defeated. At the  same time the Secretariat had been asked to reinforce  - 466 -   PROGRAMME AND  its visual information activities. The proposal was  made in accordance with the desire expressed  for more Unesco activity in that field and on the  understanding that Unesco would not itself produce  documentaries,  {1} The P.5 post would also supervise the work of  the staff already provided for activities in connexion  with exhibition and photography.
(6) Mrs. DA VENEZIA (Italy) supported the proposals  made by the Secretariat in document 8C/PRG/28.
(9) Mr. LEFRANC (France) considered that the  document was the logical outcome of previous  discussions. Its object was to reshape the Visual  Information Section and make the production of a  certain amount of visual material possible. The  French delegate relied on the Director-General to  reframe the plan of work to fit the proposed budget.
(10) Mr. BARBEY (Switzerland) also approved  document 8C/PRG/28, for the reasons given by the  French delegate.  {11) The proposals contained in document 8C/PRG/28  were approved by 23 votes to nil, with 10 abstentions.  ITEM 8.4.4 OF REVISED AGENDA: CULTURAL ACTIVITIES  Project 4.42: Study of cultural relations (paragraphs
(12) Mr. SUZUKI (Japan) enquired about the fate of  the proposal submitted by the Japanese delegation in  document 8C/DR/31.
(13) Mr. HOPE (Rapporteur) explained that it had  already been decided to consider the proposal for th”  programme for 1957-58.  Draft resolution 82/DR/27 concerning the work of  Palladio
(14) Mrs. PATRONETTO VALIER (Italy) reminded  the Commission that, in document 8C/DR/27, the  Italian delegation had presented a proposal concern-  ing a study of Palladio's work. If that proposal were  not accepted, Unesco could still invite the Inter nation: *  Committee on the History of Art, which was to meet  in Venice in 1955, to devote one day of its congress  to the work of Palladio. The proposal would entail  no Special expenditure.
(15) Mr THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) said that the Secretariat was  prepared to make the approach requested by the  Italian delegation.
(16) Mr. HOPE (Rapporteur) said that the Inter -  national Committee on the History of Art was already  preparing for the conference it was to hold in Venice  in September 1955. The Secretariat should therefore  get into touch with the International Committee with  all possible despatch, since 1t would be  finishing its work early in January.  BUDGET     COMMISSION Iv-29
(17) It was agreed that the Italian proposal  (document 8C/DR/27) should be referred to the  International Committee on the History of Art.
(18) Paragraphs 326-340 were adopted.  Project 4.43: Dissen ination of the visual arts and  music,  Paragraphs 342-350
(19) Mr. MIHALYFI ‘Hungary) said that experience  in his country had shown that the maintenance of  cultural relations was the best way to achieve  international understanding. Hungary maintained  systematic cultural relations with more than twenty  countries, and Hungarian children had recently won  prizes in a competition for children's drawings, held  in India.
(20) Accordingly, his country approved the exchange  of exhibitions, and could not agree with the fear  expressed that the results achieved would bear no  relation to expenditure. It would gladly share in any  scheme organized by Unesco for the exchange of  exhibition material.
(21) Coloured reproductions of works of art were  excellent instruments for spreading knowledge of  national cultures. It was also true, as stated in  paragraph 351 of the programme, that there were  still no good reproductions of works of art from  certain regions, especially the Orient. It was a  great pity that Chinese art was so poorly represented.  It vas impossible to organize international cultural  relations if the culture of ‘one-quarter of the human  race, with a magnificent history and wonderful  prospects, was neglected. That was yet another  argument in favour of ensuring the participation of  the real representatives of China in the work of  Unesco.
(22) Mrs. MALAKUL (Thailand) welcomed the  programme of cultural activities, which was a decided  improvement on that for the previous year. She  would like to emphasize that there were, 1n Thailand,  wall paintings worthy of reproduction,
(23) The CHAIRMAN announced at that point that  Bolivia had made a payment which would  thenceforward entitle its delegation to vote.
(24) Mrs. DA VENEZIA (Italy) pointed out that, in  document 8C/DR/25, her delegation had presented a  proposal calculated to encourage relations, and  facilitate the exchange of photographic blocks  between publishers of popular collections of art  reproductions.
(25) With regard to catalogues of reproductions of  works of art, Mrs. da Venezia stressed the fact that  reproduction techniques were making constant  progress and that the standards adopted in preparing  such catalogues should be critically considered.  Such an examination could be made at one of the  meetings of experts on the subject.
(26) ifr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural  Activities) was in complete agreement with the Italian  delegation's suggestions and recalled that the  - 467 -   IV-29 PROGRAMME AND  Secretariat had already approached certain  publishers of reproductions of works of art.
(27) Paragraphs 342-350 were approved,  Albums of reproductions of works of art (paragraphs
(28) Mr. UNGARETTI (Italy) asked that the words  "with which the public is little acquainted" be deleted  from the heading of paragraph 351. He had no  objections to the work undertaken by the Secretariat,  but was convinced that it was art as a whole with  which the public was but little acquainted.
(29) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) said that the Secretariat had so  far refrained from publishing reproductions of  well-known works in order not to compete with those  already published. Furthermore, the Secretariat  believed it was interpreting the General Conference's  intentions correctly in devoting particular attention  to spreading knowledge of the art of the East and of  certain regions which could net call upon the most  up-to-date reproduction techniques.
(30) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  was ready to leave the choice of subject-matter to  the Secretariat. It was important that the albums  published should maintain the highest standards of  quality. Such works of art were a most effective  contribution to international understanding.
(31) Mr. SUZUKI (Japan) said that his delegation  was particularly interested in the project, as it  thought that the public in other parts of the world  still knew too little about Asian art.
(32) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) said that the albums  published by Unesco were already out of stock;  their success was due as much to their originality as  to their quality. He hoped that arrangements would  be made for larger editions.
(33) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL was prepared to  amend the heading of paragraph 351 in accordance  with the Italian delegate's suggestion.
(34) Approved.
(35) Paragraphs 351-353 were approved.  Travelling exhibitions of reproductions (paragraphs
(36) Mr. HOPE (Rapporteur) suggested that the  Secretariat should consider donating scientific  exhibitions to Member States after they had served  their purpose.
(37) Paragraphs 354-356 were adopted.  Dissemination of art films (paragraphs 357-359)
(38) Mrs. PATRONETTO VALIER (Italy) wondered  why the project elating to art films was chiefly the  responsibility of he Department of Mass  - 468 -     BUDGET COMMISSION  Communication, As the essential object of such  films was to spread knowledge about works of art, the  pi'oject should really come under the Department of  Cultural Activities,
(39) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural  Activities) replied that it had been thought necessary  to do more on behalf of art films through the Depart-  ment of Mass Communication, which had qualified  specialists on 1ts staff and was in direct contact with  film producers. Previously, a very small sum had  been provided in che budget of the Department of  Cultural Activities, while the staff concerned were  attached to the Department of Mass Communication.  It had seemed desirable ta bring that division of  responsibilities to an end, but the Department of  Mass Communication would, of course, work in close  consultation with the Denartment of Cultural Activities  on the matter,
(40) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  said that art filr.is were liable to be of very unequal  quality. The Secretariat should try to encourage  commercial producers to produce better art films.
(41) Paragraphs 357-359 were adopted.  Paragraphs 360-371
(42) Adopted.  Promotion of the establishment of permanent museums  of reproductions and of record and film libraries  (paragraphs 372-374)
(43) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commission}  read out the observations on paragraph 372 made oy  the Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget  in document 28C/BUD/1, page 15.
(44) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) accepted the deletion of the  project and its postponement until a later date, 1n  order to offset the additions made to the programme  of his Department,
(45) The postponement of the project was unanimously  apr ‘oved,  Draft resolution 8C/DR/41: Measures for the  development of drama and the spread of popular  interest in the theatre
(46) The draft resolution submitted by the delegation  of Uruguay which was recommended by the Advisory  Committee on Programme and Budget (document
8C/BUD/1, page 16) was unanimously approved.  Project 4.44: Translations  Paragraphs 375-391
(47) Mr. MUJEEB (India) said tl.at his country was  very keenly interested in the matter, and his  Government, as was stated in paragraph 378, had  made large sums available to Unesco in order that Indian  classics might be translated under Unesco's auspices   PROGRAMME AND  Cultural Commission of the Arat League was at  present sitting on the International Commission at  Beirut, and the Secretariat would welcome any  measures likely to strengthen co-operation between  the Arab countries on that matter.
(65) Mr. Thomas said that his Department would be  glad to study the suggestions made by Mr. Massaquoi  With regard to Mr. Bender's observations, Mr,  Thomas noted that contradictory opinions had been  expressed by the Expert Committee on Education for  International Understanding and Co-operation, on the  one hand, and the Advisory Committee on Frograrnme  and Budget, on the other, with regard to the transla-  tion of works from the literatures of European  languages which were not widely spoken. The  General Conference had not so far taken any definite  decision on the matter,
(66) In reply to Mr. Laugier, Mr. Thomas wished  to make it clear that National Commissions were  always consulted on translation q.estions. To  conclude, he stressed that the observations made by  the Italian delegation were very interesting. The  scope of the work had gradually expanded as the  result of numerous ronsultations and negotiations.  The expansion of the work would probably later  necessitate an increase in che staff and 1n the  budgetary resources for the project. Furthermore,  the very small number of translators capable of  undertaking certain types of work made it difficult to  carry out the plans rapidly. One of the only two  French specialists in Persian, for instance, had  needed three years to complete the work he had  been commissioned to do.
(67) Mr. Thomas said that paragraph 389 dealt with  works in languages that were not widely spoken, such  as Dutch.
(68) Mr. HUZAYIN (Egypt) said that translation was  one of the most import: nt instruments of international  understanding. His country had on several occasions  acted as a bridge between East and West. Greek  works had been translated into Arabic and thence into  latin, It was trying to co-operate with Unesco in  making Eastern cultures more familiar to the West,  and vice versa. Unhappily, the International Com-  mission in Beirut had made some serious mistakes,  and it nad been found that the Cultural Commission  of the Arab League was more effective in promoting  work of the type under discussion, Egypt was trying  to co-ordinate the work of translation and to set up  a clearing house in Cairo. All the experience  acquired would be made available to Unesco.
(69) Mr. WALKER LINARES (Chile) was pleased at  the translation into French and English of  representative Latin American works, which carried  on the tradition established by the International  Institute of Intellectual Co-operation with its earlier  Latin American series.
(70) He agreed with Mr. Laugier that translations  should not be confined to literary works, but that  works on sociology and other sciences which deserved  to be more widely known should also be translated.
(71) He asked that a preliminary enquiry be carried  out is the various countries before the selection of  such works was made; cultural bodies and  associations of critics should be consulted.  BUDGET     COMMISSION IV-29
(72) Paragraphs 375-391 were approved.  Project 4.41: History of the scientific and cultural  development of mankind (paragraphs 318-325)  Report by the Working Party (document 8C/PRG/27)
(73) Mr. MUJEEB (India), as Rapporteur of the  Working Party, introduced the report by saying that  the matter had been most thoroughly considered. The  Working Party recommended that the work begun  shculd be continued.
(74) Mr. HAYEK (Czechoslovakia) recalled that he  had already had occasion, in the Working Party, to  state that specialists from his country would be glad  to co-operate in the preparation of the History of the  Scientific and Cultural Development of Mankind and to  help in making the work an objective account of the  history of humanity.
(75) The Czechoslovak delegation thought it vital that  the USSR, the People's Republic of China and the  countries of Central and Eastern Europe should take  a part in the work of the International Commission  proportionate to the part they had played in the  historical progress of mankind and in the development  of historical science. ‘Their contribution would be  confined to the Commission's future work and would  not imply acceptance of the responsibilities assumed  by the Commission earlier.
(76) The Czechoslova delegation had also expressed  doubts about the project for preparing a shorter  version of the history. A work of that kind was  certainly to be desired if 1t was the fruit of extremely  careful critical work, but the question was too  important for the training of the younger generation  and the development of popular education to be dealt  with solely on a commerciai basis.
(77) Mr. Hayek said, in conclusion, that the  Czechoslovak delegation would vote in favour of the  continuation of the project and the approval of the  proposed appronriations, subject to the reservations  he had just made.
(78) Mr. SUZUKI (Japan) hoped that Japanese specia-  lists would be able to take part in the Inte: national  Commission's work.
(79) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) supported the Working  Party's report and proposed that it be adopted,
(80) Mr. VITO (italy) said that reference was made  in the report to an Italian proposal which had been  rejected. He wished to inform the Commission that  his proposal had been rejected by a negligible majority.
(81) In making it he had taken his stand on the fact  that it ran counter to the traditions of Unesco to  publish works tending to cheaper knowledge.
(82) Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) said that the  proposal raised most serious questions.
(83) Contracts had been passed by the International  Commission in the full exercise of the powers bestowed  on it by the General Conference. Those contracts  included one for the writing of the shorter history  and, if 1t were broken, Unesco might be sued, It was  therefore 1r the highest degree unwise to interfere.  - 469 -   IV-29 PROGRAMME AND
(48) Mr. ESTELRICH (Spain) praised Unesco's wors  in this field, It had, however, to be recognized that  very few translations w-re made and that it would be  a long time before major works could be trenslated  into the principal languages.
(49) Spain had for the moment made no request for  the reproduction, by that means, of what was most  individual and most essential in Spanish culture and  thought. Unesco did not and probably would not have  the means necessary for undertaking the enormous  task of translating the works of all Eastern and  Western cultures, Spain was in touch with the  National Commissions and the most representative  intellectual bodies in the oriental countries with the  object of publishing the works of those countries in  Spanish and vice versa. As soon as the financial  and technical aspects of the project were settled, the  Spanish delegation would apply to Unesco to  co-ordinate the efforts being made.
(50) The first stage of the project would consist in  translating into Spanish the major poetical, literary,  philosophical and historical works of the Arab world.
(51) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) recalled that the first  International Commission for the Translation of the  Classics had been set up at Beirut. He wished to  know whether other similar commissions had been  formed and if it was proposed to group them in an  international federation comparable with the  International Federation of Translators, whose  establishment he had noted with pleasure.
(52) Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia) said that for  several years he had been wanting to speak on that  very subject. In Africa history was largcly unwritten  history, unknown to the outside wor)d and to the  African peoples themselves, What books there were  had largely been written in Arabic. Some of them  had been translated into French, but were almost  unobtainable. Impo: tant works had been written by  French and German explorers (Frobenius, for  example), but had never been translated.
(53) He therefore appealed to the Commission to  help in writing the history of Africa, and not only  the history of Africa after the Arab invasion. There  must be many works in Spanish, Portuguese and  French still to be unearthed, and perhaps valuable  arcnives in places such as Lisbon and Madrid.  Unesco should give assistance.
(54) Mr. SALIM (Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan)  entirely agreed with the previous speakers. If  Unesco wished to reach the masses, it must speak  in their languages. Hence Jordan warmly welcomed  the scheme for translation into Arabic.
(55) He hoped that there would be more co-operation  between the International Commission for the  Translation of the Classics in Beirut and the Cultural  Commission of the Arab League, It was important  that Unesco should assist the International  Commission in its task.
(56) Mr. LAUGIER (France) pointed out that cultura’  exchanges were hindered by linguistic barriers. The  translation of representative works was therefore a  task of the greatest importance; the French  delegation strongly supported Unesco's efforts  BUDGET     COMMISSION  in that field and  could be intensified.
(57) Mr. Laugier added that translations made under  Unesco's auspices should be as nearly perfect as  possible, and stressed the need for giving National  Commissions a say in the selection both of translators  and of works to be translated. Specialists had  criticized the quality of certain translations.
(58) Mr. Laugier considered that Unesco should not  confine 1ts attention to works of general culture or to  philosophical and literary works. Certain modern  scientific works were vitally important and might be  of great interest to various countries. Works of that  kind, however, took years to reach countries speaking  other languages. Consideration should therefore be  given to the possibility of having the essential  scientific works of the contemporary world translated,  hoped that they
(59) Mr. BENDER (Netherlands) warmly supported  the resolution. He drew the Director-General's  attention to the fact that his National Commission had  some time ago submitted a list of works to be  translated from Dutch, The Belgian and Netherlands  National Commissicns were co-operating in arranging  for translations from that language. The Netherlands  would certainly give all the assistance in its power.
(60) Mrs. MALAKUL (Thailand) was also strongly in  favour of the resolution. Action of the type indicated  was an excellent means of promoting international  understanding. Great literature was exceedingly  difficult to translate and translators ought to be well  paid.
(61) Mr. ABEYWICKREMA (Ceylon) said that in  paragraph 378 it was stated that, from 1954 onwards,  special attention would be paid to Oriental literatures.  As the delegate of Liberia had sald, it was just as  important that attention be given to the literature of  Africa.
(62) Mrs. PATRONETTO VALIER (Italy) said that,  although the project had been a very modest one at  the beginning, it had since developed very consider-  ably, thanks to the competence of the Secretariat and  to the project's intrinsic interest. She thought that  the Secretariat should later be given larger resources  for pursuing the undertaking. In addition, meetings  of experts might be hela from time to time, at the  expensc of tie governments concerned, to define the  criteria applicable in the field in question.
(63) Mr. CHEVALIER [Secretary of the Commission)  read out the suggestions made by the Expert Com-  mittee on Education for International Understanding  and Co-operation with regard to the translaticn of  works written in European languages which were not  widely spoken (document 8C/DIV/80, page 17), he  also read out the observations of the Advisory  Committee (document 8C/BUD/3, page 3).
(64) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) said that the International Com-  mission at Beirut was for the time being the only such  body dealing with translations. The remarks of the  delegate of Jordan were entirely in line with the  wishes of the Secretariat. An observer from the  - 470 -   PROGRAMME AND
(84) The shorter history would of course be most  carefully prepared and reviewed by a competent body.  Ît would not be a textbook.
(85) Surely one of the aims of Unesco was to ensure  that knowledge was disseminated on the widest  possible scale. That aim would be furthered by  publication of the shorter history.
(86) Mr. BENDER (Netherlands) supported what had  been said by the delegate of the United Kingdom.  The matter had been most thoroughly discussed  already.
(87) Mr. SHARIF (Pakistan) gave enthusiastic  support to the project and entirely agreed with the  delegate of the United Kingdom,
(88) Mr. SOLODOVNIKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) thought that the work in hand, on a  history of mankind, was of the greatest importance.  It would make a signal contribution to international  understanding. Soviet scholars would be happy to  share in writing those sections devoted to a history  of the peoples of the USSR. The question whether or  not a storter hi story should be edited was a  secondary problem which could be decided on within  the International Commission.
(89) Mr, NIELSEN (Denmark) supported what had  been said by the delegate of the United Kingdom.
(90) The point of issuing a shorter version of the  six-volume history, as he understood it, was that it  would appeal to many thinking people who for one  reason or another could not acquire the full work.  In no sense would it be an authorized history for  schools. Like the larger work, it would always be  open to revision.
(91) He had always insisted that the work should not  represent Unesco's own philosophy of history. It  would represent the views of the scholars who had  drafted it. ’
(92) It was quite natural that each session of the  vonference should find something to criticize. But  to stop the work in hand would be an act of complete  irresponsibility,
(93) Mr. VITO (Italy), while recognizing the force  of what had been said, considered that, in view of  the terms of reference given to the Working Party,  he had been well within his rights in speaking of the  shorter history as a textbook, The point was that  the purpose of the shorter version could be diffe-  rently interpreted, and hence he would move that a  decision as to its publication be deferred until the  next session,
(94) Mr, LAUGIER (France) emphasized that the  French delegation was aware of the considerable  difficulties involved in the task with which the  International Commission had been entrusted.  Many intellectual problems had in fact to be solved.  Unesco, which had been sympathetic to the project  afew years earlier, should not complicate the  Commission's task by raising financial difficulties.  The French delegation would therefore vote in  favour of the necessary appropriations.
(95) Mr. Laugier also wished to know how the    BUDGET COMMISSINN IV-29  International Commission intended to collaborate with  Unesco's new Member States, for he attached great  importance to such co-operation,
(96) The French delegation had serious reservations  to make about the publication of a shorter version of  the history. It hoped that the International Commis-  sion would confine itself to bringing out the scientific  and cultural history unabridged, and did not think that  Unesco should take responsibility for publishing a  shorter version.
(97) Mr. HUZAYIN (Egypt) said that in document
8C/PRG/ 217 (report by the Working Party) mention  was made (page 2) of the fact that the delegate of  Egypt had criticized the plan of the third volume on  the grounds that not enough space was devoted to the  literary and philosophical aspects of the history of  Islam.
(98) Now Volume lll covered the period from 400 to
1,300 A, D,, when Islam had been at the height of its  glory. In the existing plan of the volume, emphasis  was chiefly laid on political history and architecture.  The peoples of Islam felt that they had made an  outstanding contribution to the cultural history of  mankind in the realm of philosophy. In Islamic  thought, the philosophies of Greece, of Persia, of  India and of the Arab world were blended to form a  harmonious whole, Islamic thought was an outstanding  example of fruitful intercourse between different  peoples and cultures.
(99) The literary history of Islam was also a glorious  one. For no less than sixteen hundred years, great  literature had been produced in Arabic, a record  surpassed only by the Chinese,
(100) While appreciating the work done on Islamic  history by foreign scholars, his country strongly felt  that representatives of the Arab world should be called  upon to contribute.
(101) Mr, FERNANDEZ QUINTANILLA (Spain)  considered that the shorter version should be post-  poned until the principal work itself had been finished.  That was the only way of gaining a proper understanding  of the problem and discovering whether it was possible  and desirable to publish the shorter version,
(102) He asked that, in future, commitments with  publishing houses which might compromise freedom  of action in pursuing the project, should be avoided.
(103) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) reminded the Com-  mission that the history of the scientific and cultural  development of mankind would require ten years' work  and the expenditure of $400,000, It was therefore a  major project. The General Conference had, so far,  unhesitatingly approved the necessary appropriations,  thus demonstrating its confidence in the International  Commission and in its President, whom Mgr Maroun  congratulated on the high standard of the numbers of  the Journal published to date.
(104) Mgr Marounnoted that there hadbeen nomention  in any report that the publication of the complete work  would, so to speak, depend upon that of the shorter  versicn. In point of fact, it seemed that the publishers  wished the two publications to be linked. In such  circumstances, the International Commission, which  was responsible for the complete edition, would also  have totake responsibility for the shorter version,  - 471 -
(105) Mr. ZAMORANO HERNANDEZ (Chile) said  that the question whether or not a work of such a wide  scope was to be published in whole or in part was less  important than that it should be soundlv prepared.
(106) The Commission, of which Mr, Berredo  Carneiro was President, could be rehed on from the  scientific point of view and its work wou'd be crowned  with success.
(107) With regard to the shorter version, which had  been described as difficult and hazardous, the Chilean  delegate sumpathized with the desire of the represen-  tative of the USSR that the Commission should study  the possibilities of popularizing the History of the  Scientific and Cultural Development of Mankind. The  work would be of great value to scholars; 1t was very  much more important that the gre it mass of workers  should appreciate its historical interest.
(108) He asked Mr. Berredo Carneiro if the Journal  referred to in the document under examination, could  be used for that work of popularization,
(109) The delegation of Chile thought that the accept-  ance of new contributors was a problem which should  be left to the Commission's discretion,
(110) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that Unesco  had adopted the work plan of the history in question.  That plan made definite provision for the shorter  version. It had been referred to the International  Commission for action, Therefore, although the  Conference could negotiate with the International  Commission on points of detail, it was quite powerless  to rule that there should be a change in the number of  volumes published or that work on the shorter version  should be stopped.
(111) All that the Conference was asked to do was to  make suitable budgetary appropriations for the  implementation of its previous decisions.
(112) Definite legal contracts had been entered into.  They had been drawn up on the advice of Unesco's  legal experts and rested on the authority given by  previous sessions of the Conference,
(113) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  supported what the delegate of the United Kingdom had  said. As the Director-General had pointed out, the  Conference had entrusted the International Commis-  sion with a definite task, Since the original decision  in 1950, the Conference had on three separate  occasions reaffirmed its intentions and made the  necessary appropriations. As a result, the  International Commission had entered into definite  contracts, There was no reason at all to think that  the shorter version would be prepared with less gare  than the longer history. Hence the Conference should  approve the budgetary appropriations in question for  another two-year period.
(114) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (President,  International Commission for a History of the  Scientific and Cultural Development of Mankind) said  that the International Commission understood it was  responsible for planning the work in six volumes and  the two shorter versions intended for different sections  of the general public. The Commission had never  entertained the idea of publishing a textbook for any  particular type of educational establishment. All it  had done was to define the types of readers for whom  BUDGET     COMMISSION  the shorter versions intended for the general  public were to be designed.
(115) The International Commission would certainly  not shirk the task of preparing those shorter versions,  It would use the same scientific methods and the same  machinery for consulting specialists as for the  complete editio . It was prepared, furthermore, to  publish material for inclusion in the shorter versions,  and even chapters from those works, in the Journal,  There was therefore no question of two different  techniques or of two different standards of exactitude,
(116) Mr. Berredo Carneiro added that the Commis-  sion would find it difficult to arrange for the publication  of six 800-page volumes, containing many maps and  illustrations, unless the publishers could count on the  success of a more popular work to offset a possible  loss on the principal work.
(117) The question had been very carefully studied,  in order that the results of so much financial and  intellectual effort should be accessible not only to a  small élite but also to the general public.
(118) Mr. Berredo Carneiro wished to remind the  meeting that the new Member States had been invited,  as early as 1952, to collaborate with the Commission  The atmosphere of the Commission's work was truly  international and it hoped to appoint members,  corresponding members and consultants from among  Specialists of those countries.
(119) Document 8C/ PRG/27 was finally approved  with 6 abstentions.
(120) Project 4.41, paragraphs 318-325, was also  approved, with 1 abstention.  ITEM 8.4.4.1 OF REVISED AGENDA: REPORT ON THE  INTERNATIONAL PETITION IN FAVOUR OF ESPERANTO  (document 8C/PRG/3 and Addendum) AND DRAFT RESOLU-  TION 8C/DR/116
(121) Mr. BLINKENBERG (Denmark) thought it  would be extremely rash and premature for Unesco  to advocate the use of Esperanto, He would therefore  vote against the draft resolution under consideration.
(122) In his view, neither its structure nor the  number of its supporters entitled Esperanto to the  status of a universal, international language. It was  an auxiliary language invented by an amateur linguist  who had made use mainly of components drawn from  several western languages,
(123) A linguist could hardly give a favourable  judgment on Esperanto. Its phonetic system was  unsatisfactory for many nations; and its morphology  and system ‘of derivations was not particularly happy.
(124) As an-auxiliary language, it had certain uses,  but it could not be regarded as a real instrument of  culture, or as a language into which the masterpieces  of the world's literature could be translated. More-  over, it was not the only, nor the best, existing  international language, and the possibility of using  simplified forms of widely spoken languages, such as  Basic English or Frangais élémentaire, might also be  considered,
(125) Mr. LAPENNA (Observer for the Universal  Esperanto Association) regretted that the Chairman  - 472 -   PHLOGRAMME AND  had been able to allow him only three minutes for  presenting the petition sighed by 16, 500, G00 people.  Contrary to the opinion of the Danish delegate, he  mentioned linguists who had expressed very favourable  opinions on Esperanto (A. Meillet, M. Miller, Marr,  Shishmanov, etc.). Other linguists, such as Collinson  in England, Bjürn Collinder in Sweden, and Waringhien  in France, spoke the language perfectly and had indeed  published several works in Esperanto. They were In  fact the only people who were in a position to give an  objective and well-informed judgment on Esperanto.  Mr. Lapenna said that, moreover, the Danish  delegate's statements were entirely unfounded,
(126) He recalled that the Association's Research and  Documentation Centre had published and distributed to  all delegations a document entitled "The International  Language and the Contribution of the Esperanto  Movement to the Aims of Unesco". U. E, A, had  endeavoured to give Unesco full information about  Esperanto (Report to the Secretariat, documents  submitted to National Commissions and an Exhibition,  including 3, 000 works, within a mere hundred yards  of the Conference building).
(127) He added that a Unesco observer had attended  the thirty-eighth Esperanto Congress at Zagreb, He  had been able to see that nearly 2,000 delegates from  the most varied countries understood each other  perfectly, without translation or interpretation,  during the debates and discussions, at the Summer  School and artistic functions, and in private  conversation.
(128) Mr. Lapenna hoped that delegates on the  Commission, after seeing and reading all the informa-  tion provided on the subject, would be prepared, by  taking an impartial decision, to meet the wishes of  the 16, 500, 0N0 people who had signed the Petition.  Language barriers were one of the chief obstacles to  better international understanding. Romain Rolland  had said that "for people to come to an understanding,  they must be able to hear and understand each other",  and he had added that "Esperanto thus opens the ears  of the deaf, who have been for centuries isolated in  their several languages".
(129) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) observed that, as  far as the resolution (document 8C/DR/ 46) contained  a statement of facts, his delegation could vote for it.  Paragraph 4, however, would commit Unesco to  selecting Esperanto as an international language,  rather than any of the other auxiliary languages  which existed, In his view, it would be rash for  Unesco to make such a choice, until the question had  been thoroughly studied by experts.
(130) Mr. ESTABLE (Uruguay) said that his country  had submitted a draft resolution designed to encourage  bilingualism throughout the American continent. The  idea was that all Americans should speak two lan-  guages, Spanish and English. A study of both  languages at school for one generation would be  enough for the essentials of two civilizations to  become famihar throughout the continent.
(131) With the same object in view, U- uguay supported  the petition for the spread of Esperan.>. It was  necessary to weigh the arguments for and against, and  then come to a decision, Mr, Estable had made his  choice not for technical reasons but in a spirit of  BUDGET     COMMISS ON IV-29  sympathy and generosity, and asked that the  proposal be approved.
(132) The CHAIRMAN called for a vote on draft  resolution 8C/DR/116.
(133) Rejected by 22 votes to 3, with 19 abstentions.  Draft resolution submitted by Honduras, Nicaragua,  Costa Rica, El Salvador, Ecuador and Haiti  (document 8C/DR/3/ rev.2).
(134) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commission)  read out the Advisory Committee's recommendation,  which advised against adopting the draft resolution, in  view of its financial implications.
(135) Mr. COTO CONDE (Union of Latin American  Universities) commented on document 8C/DR/3  (rev. 2), saying that the first versior had been  revised so as to avoid budgetary implications. The  Union of Latin American Universities, upon the advice  of cultural associations and governments, hoped that  the draft resolution would be approved in its existing  form, in accordance with the procedure of the General  Conference.
(136) Mr, THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultrral  Activities) said that the Advisory Committee had  calculated the budgetary implications of the proposal  before document 8C/DR/3 had been revised the first  time, As the delegate of Honduras said that it had  again been revised, it was difficult to know whether  the proposal still had budgetary implications.
(137) Mr. COTO CONDE (Union of Latin American  Universities) explained that he was referring to  document 8C/DR/3 (rev. 2), which had been  distributed, since he had a copy of it in his hands.  Draft resolution 8C/DR/6 concerning the dissemination  of Asian and African culture in the West
(138) The CHAIRMAN opened discussion on draft  resolution 8C/DR/6, submitted by the Indian delegation,  and announced that draft resolution 8C/DR/17, on the  same subject, had been withdrawn by that same  delegation.
(139) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commission)  read out the comments of the Advisory Committee,  which had seen no need to take a decision on draft  resolution 8C/DR/6.
(140) Mr. MUJEEB (India) said that his delegation  withdrew the draft resolution,  Draft resolution 8C/DR/106 concerning certain  International Cultural Celebrations
(141) Mr. TAMAS (Hungary) wished to comment on  three points in the draft resolution. The proposal was  simply that such celebrations should be held in certain  countries in both continents; but, if it were approved,  Unesco would be able to give them universal interest.
(142) The proposal had no budgetary implications.  The draft resolution was dated 30 November but had  - 473 -   Iv-29 PROGRAMME AND  been submitted within the time-limit of seven days  after the opening of the General Conference, in  accordance with the Rules of Procedure,
(143) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) drew attention to two points in  the last part of the draft resolution: (1) Unesco was  to organize commemorative celebrations simultane-  ously in all countries, devoting some of its  publications to them and calling upon National  Commissions for assistance; (2) the Conference was  to adopt a resolution concerning the commemoration  of the anniversaries of certain artists and scientists.
(144) The Director of the Department of Cultural  Activities asked if the Hungarian delegation's  intention was that the celebrations should be  organized by the individual Member States, or at  Unesco's instigation, He thought that the point  should be made clear in view of the budgetary  implications to be taken into account in the second  case.
(145) Mr. TAMAS (Hungary) read out the draft  resolution and said that all that was asked was that  Unesco adopt the idea and communicate it to Member  States. No expenditure would be entailed.
(146) The CHAIRMAN asked if the draft resolution  submitted by the delegation of Hungary was seconded;  the delegation of the Soviet Union replied that it was.
(147) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  proposed that a decision on the Hungarian proposal be  postponed until the ninth session of the General  Conference,
(148) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that by 1957 and
1958 certain anniversaries would already have gone  by.
(149) Mr, SOLODOVNIKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) proposed that the delegate of Hungary be  invited to prepare a new and more precise draft  resolution, which would be examined at the next  meeting.
(150) Approved.
(151) Mr. LAPENNA (Universal Esperanto Associa-  tion) asked what interpretation was to be placed on  the rejection of the draft resolution submitted by the  Mexican delegation. Did Unesco intend to encourage  the study of Esperanto and would the Conference take  note of the conclusions contained in document
8C/PRG/3? He pointed out that, if the Commission  approved those conclusions, and in particular iiem  IV, which related to the teaching of Esperanto in  Member States, Unesco could consider the results  achieved during coming years, and could take  decisions with a view to more specific action.
(152) The CHAIRMAN replied that the Commission  had taken note of the report contained in document
8C/PRG/3, but that the Director-General was  not contemplating any specific activities in  the matter,  BUDGET     COMMISSION
(153) Mr. FORSYTH (New Zealand) thought that, in  fairness to the representative of the Universal  Esperanto Association, the Commission should either  receive or approve document 8C/ PRG/3.
(154) Mr. NIELSEN (Denmark), seconded by Mr,  MUJEEB (India), moved that the Commission take  note of document 8C/ PRG/3.
(155) The motion was adopted.
(156) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commission)  read out draft resolution 8C/DR/3 rev. 2, which the  Documents and Publications Service had beenunableto  reproduce in time.
(157) Mr. COTO CONDE (Union of Latin American  Universities) said that the resolution had been drafted  several times. It had been submitted in October and  seemed acceptable to the Secretariat; but it was later  found that it might have financial implications. The  draft resolution was therefore revised, and when it  was observed that further obstacles to its adoption  might arise, it was redrafted and submitted in a  different form. All that was asked was that the  Director-General should investigate the possibility of  instituting a World Culture, Science and Education  Week and of establishing Unesco Awards, The  Director-General would submit his conclusions to the  ninth session of the General Conference,
(158) Mr. LAUGIER (France) had been pleased to find  a proposal he had often advocated in the Executive  Board in draft resolution 8C/DR/3 rev. 2.
(159) He thought that Unesco should begin to adopt the  policy of replacing expert committees by competitive  awards. He recalled the number of expert committees  which had met to discuss the question of propaganda  in support of Human Rights, and the number of  documents necessary for their work, and stated that  the method was inefficient and should be discarded.  From a quick calculation made by a member of the  Secretariat, the work to which he had referred had  cost from $400,000 to $500,000. If the Secretariat  had simply offered awards and concluded contra.ts  with the associations concerned, the cost would have  been less and a large number of works on the subject  would already have been available to specialists and  Unesco.
(160) The CHAIRMAN called for a vote on draft  resolution 8C/DR/3 rev. 2.
(161) Approved by 34 votes to 7, with 4 abstentions.
(162) Before going on to study the chapter on  documents and publications, the CHAIRMAN proposed  that the delegation of the USSR, which had submitted  draft resolution 8C/DR/70, and the delegations of  Colombia, Ecuador, Jordan, Liberia, Mexico and  United States of America, which had put forward an  amendment to that draft resolution in document
8C/DR/117, should meet to draw up a joint draft  resolution which would be examined at the next  meeting.
(163) Approved.  - 474 -   PROGRAMME AND  CHAPTER 8 : DOCUMENTS AND PUBLICATIONS SERVICE
(164) Mr. DELAVENAY (Chief, Documents and  Publications Service) first reminded the Commission  of two features of his Service.
(165) The Documents and Publications Service had  no programme of its own; it assisted all departments  inthe execution of their work andin the implementation  of the Organization's programme.
(166) În addition, and particularly where publications  were concerned, the Service went on with the execu-  tion of the programme when the departments had  finished their work. That applied to reprints,  re-issues and the sale of publications. The activities  of the Documents and Publications Service were  therefore concerned as much with Unesco's past as  with the present.
(167) Mr, Delavenay emphasized an important  aspect of the problem of publications, i.e. how  Member States and National Commissions could  co-operate in their distribution. In 1953, the  Director-General had made specific recommendations  to them with a view to enlisting their help (cf.  document ODG/4, pages 38 to 41). Appreciable  results had already been achieved, thanks to National  Commissions and sales agents.
(168) The Chief of the Documents and Publications  Service invited all delegates who wished to have  further information on the question to come and see  him before the end of the session.
(169) He also mentioned the improvements which it  had been possible to make, as a result of sending  questionnaires to National Commissions. Those  questionnaires, which related to a particular Unesco  publication, served to determine to what extent the  publication fulfilled its object, the distribution it  should be given, and the languages into which it  should be translated.
(170) The sale of Unesco publications was expanding  and had gone up noticeably during recent weeks. Mr.  Delavenay gave the percentages of income from sales  in relation to the funds obligated for contractual  printing in preceding years: 8% for 1951, 13% for
1952, 15% for 1953, 32% for 1954. The net income  at the end of 1954 would probably exceed $100, 000,  as against $220,000 spent by buyers, the difference  of $120, 000 representing the commission of sales  agents and freight charges. In 1954, a sum of  $26,000 had been spent on three experiments in  connexion with the distribution of the Courier in  French-speaking countries, the United States of  America and Uruguay. Thanks to that campaign, the  number of purchasers of the periodical had risen in  six months from 6, 000 (in December 1953) to 25, 000.
(171) Mr. Delavenay drew the Commission's  attention to the annex to document 8C/BUD/1: "Draft  resolution consolidating the Rules of the Publications  Fund."
(172) The Fund was of great help in the distribution  of Unesco publications. The Advisory Committee's  draft resolution was designed to fix its structure on  a firm basis, The balance of the Fund for each year  would be $50, 000 instead of $150, 000, the excess  being surrendered to "Miscellaneous Income". The  Director-General would be authorized to meet the  cost of postage of publications out of  the Fund,  BUDGET     COMMISSION IV-29
(173) In the programme for 1955-56, provision was  made for the establishment of two new posts at grade  P. 2, whose incumbents would be responsible for  distributing publications at the regional level. That  that was the first step towards regionalization.  Efforts would be made to increase the circulation of  Unesco publications in Spanish in Latin America,  where they were not yet widely enough known.
(174) In conclusion, Mr. Delavenay said that, while  the existing budget should make it possible to look  forward to the future with confidence, in 1957-58  greater efforts should be made, by regional action,  to distribute publications arising out of programme  activities,
(175) Mr. BARBEY (Switzerland) thanked and  congratulated Mr, Delavenay, He took the increase  in the sale of publications to be an encouraging sign.  The criticisms made at previous sessions of the  General Conference about Unesco publications had not  been repeated, which proved that the existing  estimates had met with general approval,
(176) Mr. HUZAYIN (Egypt) congratulated the  Documents and Publications Service on the excellent  work it had done in making Unesco known to the world.  The issuing of publications in different languages was  one of the most effective ways of spreading knowledge  of Unesco's aims and ideals, and also of furthering  international cultural understanding, The Arabic-  speaking countries were ready to help in every  possible way in the publication and distribution of  translations into Arabic.
(177) Mr. SALIM (Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan)  associated himself with the delegate of Egypt in  praising the excellent work done by Mr. Delavaney  and his Service, He was very happy to note the  extension of translations into Arabic and hoped that  every effort would be made to increase their number  still further. He hoped that any money unspent would  be used for that purpose.
(178) In conclusion, Mr. Salim moved the approval of  Chapter 8 in document 8C/5 and Corrigendum.
(179) Chapter 8 in document 8C/5 and Corrigendum,  together with the resolution of the Advisory Committee  on Programme and Budget, contained in the Annex to  document 8C/BUD/1, were unanimously approved.
(180) The CHAIRMAN announced that the Commission  still had to consider Project 3.4 of the chapter on  Social Sciences.
(181) Mr, SOLODOVNIKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics), remarking that there were no French or  Russian versions of the relevant document, moved  adjournment of the item until Monday, 6 December.
(182) Adopted,  The meeting rose at 7 p.m.  - 475 -