vi-29 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  important aspect of the question, since it had been’  found that fellowship-holders very often lost contact  with their own country. It would be better, however,  not to use the term'denationalizing, which would be  inappropriate in the case of citizens from countries  which ranked as part of the metropolitan territory.  He recommended that the paragraph be redrafted to  make it more flexible and wider in scope,
(118) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) was satisfied with the  explanations given about paragraph (2). As regarded  paragraphs (3) and (4), he still thought it was too  early for Unesco to assess results,
(119) Mr. W. CARTER (Chief, Exchange of Persons  Service) said that Unesco was always studying its  working methods with a view to achieving better  results, It was part of Unesco's routine duties to  ascertain whether the knowledge acquired by  fellowship-holders had been of advantage both to  them and to their countries,
(120) The CHAIRMAN said that such studies were  already going on and needed no particular emphasis.
(121) It was agreed that paragraph (5) (d) should be  understood to refer exclusively to persons receiving  technical training, and not to young people.
(122) Mr, LEE (United States of America) proposed  that the Committee endorse paragraph (5) (f).
(123) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) again urged that the  proposal in paragraph (5) (f) was too strongly worded  and bore little relation to the facts; he suggested  that the Committee should therefore state that there  had been disagreement on the point.
(124) Mr. FREY (German Federal Republic)  supported the United States proposal.
(125) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) objected to the word  "denationalizing'and suggested 'Alienating instead,
(128) Mr. W, CARTER (Chief, Exchange of Persons  Service) said that paragraphs’(f), (h) and (i) all dealt  with the same problem - the adjustment of the fellow  to his host country and his readjustment on return  home. They were simply a statement of the problem.
(127) The Committee then endorsed, by 10 votes to
1, the recommendations appearing under C. Fellow-  ships, subject to the comments made in the course  of the discussion.  The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m.  TWENTY-NINTH MEETING
24 November 1954 at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman: Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Australia)  CONSIDERATION OF THE REPORT OF THE EXPERT COM-  MITTEE ON EDUCATION FOR INTERNATIONAL UNDER-  STANDING AND CO-OPERATION (document 8C/DIV/80)  (continued)  {1) The CHAIRMAN requested the Committee to  continue its examination of document 8C/DIV/80  from Sub-Section D on page 11.  D. Advisory Committees
(2) No comments,  E. International Conferences
(3) No comments.  F. Pilot Projects
(4) No comments.  G. Exhibitions
(5) Mr, FLORKIN (Belgium), alluding to the second    paragraph of Section G, where it was stated that,  "For example, it might be shown how the same  themes have been treated by artists or schools of  artists in different countries‘, remarked that the  proposal might be dangerous. What counted in  such exhibitions was not so much the theme as the  feeling behind its treatment: international affinities  could be brought out by showing that the same type  of feeling had informed work in different countries.  Mr. Florkin would be very sorry to see Unesco  arranging exhibitions on particular themes, such  as The Last Judgment, etc.
(6) As delegate of Australia, the CHAIRMAN fully  supported the remarks of the delegate of Belgium,  He asked the Committee if it wished to refer to the  point in its report.
(7) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) thought that  some reference should indeed be made to the point  in the Committee's report.
(8) On the general subject of exhibitions, he was  of opinion that the three following points should be  borne in mind:  - 828 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VI-29
(1) Exhibitions, as a technique, were normally  very expensive;
(2) The results of exhibitions were usually very  hard to evaluate;
(3) There was need for further research into the  value of exhibitions and visual presentation  generally.
(9) The last point might be more appropriately  placed in the section on mass media of communi-  cation, but he would be sorry to see it confined to  that section, Research should be undertaken, for  example, on the value of attempts to give statistical  material in pjctorial form, and also on the wider  use of diagrams, He hoped that refe  2nce would  be made to the three points he had mentioned in the  Committee's report.
(10) Mr, ELVIN (Director, Department of  Education) assured the delegate of the United Kingdom  that the value of visual aids had already been the  subject of inter-departmental discussions within the  Secretariat. It was true that an emotional aura of  unreflecting approval surrounded visual aids in  some circles. His own opinion was that a great  deal depended upon the educational efforts which  accompanied them. It was certainly a very import-  ant question, as, unless results were properly  evaluated, Unesco would be in danger of wasting  money.
(11) Mr, FRANCOIS (France), who had been much  interested in the United Kingdom delegate's obser-  vations, recalled that when he was in Belgrade in
1952 he had had an opportunity of seeing for himself  how interested workers and students were in the  exhibition of colour reproductions arranged by  Unesco. Such exhibitions were not only of educational  value, but served as propaganda for Unesco. In  France, museums and trade fairs frequently asked  for exhibitions dealing with Unesco. Combined with  films and lectures, they were of great help both in  popular education and in spreading knowledge of  Unesco's work.
(12) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) observed that not all  exhibitions were costly. Unesco's exhibitions of  art reproductions, for example, were very  reasonable.
(13) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) asked how many of the  art reproductions had been sold.
(14) Mr. KIRPAL (Deputy Director, Department of  Culturai Activities) replied that 8 Member States  had bought 12 sets of reproductions as a result of  travelling exhibitions of colour reproductions  organized in 1949; as a result of further exhibitions,  various sets of reproductions had been bought by 7  Member States in 1951 and by 18 Member States in
(15) Sub-Section G was approved, subject to the  comments which had been made by members of the  Advisory Committee.  H. Mass media of communication
(16) Referring to the first sentence of the second  - 829 -     paragraph, Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom)  proposed thai the Committee mention in its report  that it shared the views of the Expert Committee  on the term mass media,
(18) The CHAIRMAN requested the Committee to  turn back to the introduction to document 8C/DIV/80  on page 4.  Terminology and Introduction
(19) Mr, AL-KOUSSI (Egypt) drew attention to the  important statement contained in the fourth sentence  of paragraph (2) - Principles of action - beginning:  “Since tensions, and the attitudes which cause  them. ...'. That statement connected up with the  last paragraph of the section entitled Terminology  and raised a point which he wished to mention. He  did not agree with the view expressed that morning  by the delegate of France that education during the  later years of childhood was more important than  during the earlier years. In his opinion, the found-  ations of the main attitudes were really laid in early  childhood. Instead, therefore, of extending co-  ordinated experimental activities in education for  international understanding and co-operation to  teacher training institutions and making it a major  project, as suggested on page 14 of document
8C/DIV/80, he would prefer to see more attention  devoted in Unesco's programme to education for  international understanding and co-operation in  early childhood. He proposed that such 2 recom-  mendation be included in the Committee's report.
(20) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) admitted that the  Egyptian delegate's remarks were very pertinent,  but reminded the Committee that it had already  agreed to the point he had raised when considering  Section V of the Annex to Chapter I1I (Research in  Child Psychology).
(21) As for the Introduction, it expressed the  philosophy of the Expert Committee, which had  there set [orth its views in general before parti-  cularizing in its study of the programme resolutions.  If the Advisory Committee launched into a discussion  of the philosophy of the Expert Committee, Mr,  Florkin would be obliged to make reservations on  almost every line; some of the views expressed in  the Introduction seemed to him to be very much  open to dispute, and he thought the entire respon-  sibility for them should rest with the Expert  Committee.
(22) While agreeing that it was not desirable to go  into the philosophy of the Expert Committee's  report, the CHAIRMAN reminded members that  they had to give some sort of guidance to the  Programme and Budget Commission.
(23) Mr, FRANCOIS (France), replying to the  Egyptian delegate's remarks, did not think that  children should be left without education for inter-  national understanding until the age of 10 or 12 - it  was never too late or too early for education. He  had simply wished to record a protest against the   vi-28 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  undue importance attributed to the first five years  of childhood, which, though they should not be  neglected, did not seem to him to be decisive.
(24) With regard to the Introduction, he agreed with  the Belgian delegate. The general tone seemed  over-emphatic, and there was at once too much  optimism and too much pessimism, A document  issued by Unesco should have a more sober  approach. The first sentence of the Introduction  might raise a smile, and the philosophical state-  ments of views on man's destiny might lead to end-  less discussions, Summing up, Mr. Frangois  recognized the practical value of the report of the  Expert Committee, but thought that entire responsi-  bility for its philosophy should be borne by its  authors.
(25) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) agreed with previous  speakers that the Introduction left a great deal to  be desired, Experts naturally had a tendency to see  things from only one point of view and he thought it  an exaggeration to say that it was Unesco's prime  purpose to promote education for international  understanding and co-operation, The fight against  ignorance and illiteracy was undoubtedly equally  important,
(26) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) had doubts  regarding terminology: one educated people, but  one did not educate them for things: when trying to  produce specific attitudes, it would be more correct  to use the word train, Education was the develop-  ment of the human spirit.
(27) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of  Education) reminded the Advisory Committee that  the report wis the outcome of a meeting of an ‘> sert  committee convened to give the Director-General  advice, so that there was no need to consider it as  a Conference document, every word of which had to  be approved or amended. The Director-General had  asked the experts to consider the draft programme  for 1955-56, but the rest of the report was for  general interest, The .\dvisory Committee could  therefore merely take note of the Introduction. If,  however, it wished to consider the substance, it  could select a few of the main ideas for discussion;  it could then draw attention to those ideas in its  report, adding, if it wished, that it did not entirely  approve the general tone and emphasis.
(28) Mr. FRANCOIS agreed with the delegate of the  United Kingdom that the prime purpose of education  should be to develop the human spirit, and hoped  that the last sentence of the section on terminology  would be amended by introducing that idea, He  moved the following amendment: "The word ‘education’  in the proposed formula is not limited to the schools,  but should be broadly interpreted, to cover all that  makes for men and women who will be free and  responsible citizens".
(29) He thought it would be unwise to endorse the  Israeli delegate's views unreservedly; Unes  might be drawn on to deal with all educational  problems, whereas its main task should be to see  that curricula in all countries made some allowance  for developing international understanding and    - 830 -  co-operation, That was Unesco's individual and  unique contribution. It could never become a  supernational Ministry of Education - no budget  could possibly finance such a heavy task.
(30) The CHAIRMAN asked if the Committee would  agree to denote general approval of the report,  subject to the reservations expressed by members  in respect af individual items; it could say that the  Introduction embodied the attitude of the experts,  but that the Advisory Committee had not felt it  necessary to go into the philosophy of the report.  He suggested that it be left to the Rapporteur to  draft a statement on those lines for inclusion in the  Advisory Committee's report.
(31) Agreed.  Annex to Chapter I! (pages 26 and 27)
(32) Referring to the example of a Unesco Week  programme, paragraph (fj, Mr. COWELL (United  Kingdom) remarked that the words suitable  arrangements were somewhat vague, By way of  guidance for the Director-General, he said that a  model conference had been arranged by university  students in the United Kingdom, with the aim of  repeating in miniature what was going on at the  present time in Montevideo.
(33) At the CHAIRMAN's suggestion, it was agreed  to refer the proposals in the Annex to Chapter II to  the Director-General, who would have an opportunity  to study them during 1955 and 1956 and to include  them either in the current work plans or in those  for 1957-58.  Annex to Chapter III (pages 28-30)
(34) The CHAIRMAN proposed that the Committee  follow the same procedure as for the Annex to  Chapter II.
(35) Referring to materials for teachers, Mr.  COWELL (United Kingdom) asked if someone in the  Secretariat would be entrusted with the task of  writing the small 100-page pamphlet on the great  civilizations of the world.
(36) Mr. PANNETON (Canada) made some  comments on the projects listed in the Annex to  Chapter III. To condense the history of The Great  Civilizations of the World into 100 pages would be  a feat for which he would not care to be made  responsible. It would be interesting to have some  details about the size of the edition and the cost of  such a publ.cation. The idea of bringing out a  small pamptilet on the great religions of the world  also seemed dubious: it was an extremely delicate  subject, and Unesco might provoke reactions which  would be unfortunate for the Organization, It was  questionable whether Unesco should properly  engage in the preparation of such textbooks when  libraries were full of adequate works. Unesco  could make better use of its time and resources.
(37) The CHAIRMAN observed that those were ideas   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  put forward by individual members of the Expert  Committee; the Committee as a whole had not had  time to examine them in detail. He thought that it  would be better for the Advisory Committee not to  discuss them but to refer them to the Director-  General for possible inclusion in the work plans for
(38) Mr. PANNETON (Canada) thought that that was  a rather dangerous policy, for the usual tendency  was to assume that silence on the part of a conference  meant assent,
(38) Mr. LEE (United States of America) understood  that the ideas under consideration had been put  forward in connexion with the remodelling of  Unesco's future programme. He therefore suggested  that they be considered when that item was taken.
(40) The CHAIRMAN agreed, but hoped that the  Committee would not go into their substance, as  they did not concern the programme for 1955-56,
(41) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) proposed that the various  themes be referred to the Director-General for study  during the next two years.
(42) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) thought that  the Committee should at least give the Director-  General some guidance, Personally, he would be  in favour of discouraging the Director-General from  undertaking some of the projects listed.
(43) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of  Education) pointed out that the various projects  would, in any case, go through the usual stern,  critical process within the Secretariat.
(44) Mr. PANNETON (Canada) remarked that, if  the Committee considered that it was too early to  examine and discuss the report, it would also seem  to have been toc early to submit it. The Annex to  Chapter III was part of the report ard could not be  separated from it.
(45) The CHAIRMAN observed that the introductory  statement made it clear that the proposals in the  Annex were of a different character from those in  the report itself; the latter had been approved by  the Expert Committee as a whole, but the former  had not.  - 831 -     VI-29
(46) Mr. LEE (United States of America) did not  think that it was within the Committee's assignment  or competence to discuss the substance of the  proposals at the present time.
(47) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) asked how it  was, then, that the Advisory Committee had been  competent to discuss the substance of some seventy  draft resolutions.
(48) The CHAIRMAN explained that the draft  resolutions had been referred to the Advisory  Committee for advice on whether or not they should  be included in the draft programme and budget for
1955-56. The proposals at present under discussion  only concerned the programme for 1957-58.
(49) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) nevertheless  considered that the Committee was competent to  say whether, in its opinion, the Director-General  should study certain of the proposals or not.
(50) Mr, FLCRKIN (Belgium) pointed out that the  introductory paragraph in the Annex to Chapter 111  was quite clear in that respéct, It stated, in fact,  that "Time did not permit the Committee to make  a detailed study of proposals put forward by  several of its members during the meeting," The  Annex therefore did not express the opinion of the  Expert Committee and, in the circumstances,  Mr. Florkin did not see any necessity for the  Advisory Committee to take a decision on it,
(51) The CHAIRMAN regretted that he had not been  able to convince the delegate of the United Kingdom.
(52) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) replied that  he would accept the procedure suggested, provided  that the Chairman's remarks were included in the  Committee's report.
(53) It was agreed to refer the proposals in the  Annex to Chapter III to the Director-General for  study, and to include the explanations given by the  Chairman in the Committee's report.
(54) The CHAIRMAN announced that the Committee  had concluded its consideration of document
8C/DIV/ 80.  The meeting rose at 4,50 p.m,