ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VI-17  SEVENTEENTH MEETING
11 November 1954 at 10 a.m,  Chairman : Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Australia)  ITEM 7,3 OF THE AGENDA. DISCUSSION OF DRAFT RESOLU-  TIONS SUBMITTED BY MEMBER STATES (continued)  DR/18
(1) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences), introducing draft resolution 18 submitted  by the delegation of India, pointed out that a number  of proposals were combined in the resolution, the  first being concerned with the development of inter-  national collaboration and the possibility of taking the  Indian National Scientific Documentation Centre as a  model for the establishment of similar centres in the  underdeveloped areas, The Secretariat welcomed a  proposal which showed that the Indian Centre had been  a genuine success and was proving useful, What was  suggested was that the Director-General be asked to  study the possibility of taking such action with a  view to eliciting requests for technical assistance  from the countries concerned.
(2) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) asked whether  it was not true that much of the activity proposed  under the first section of the document was covered  by resolutions already dealt with by the Committee.
(3) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) explained that it was a new proposal, whose  object was simply to make known in underdeveloped  areas the achievements of the Indian National  Scieatific Documentation Centre,
(4) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) said that the proposal  was intended to emphasize the importance of the  Documentation Centre in India and the value of  contributions from underdeveloped areas,
(5) In reply to a question from the delegate of Israel,  Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) confirmed that the Centre in India had been  set up under the technical assistance programme.  {6) Mr. LEE (United States of America) said that the  Indian Government should be commended for its  Initiative, but, as the Secretariat already had  authority to carry out the kind of work envisaged, he  did not see any point in passing resolutions to con-  firm existing powers. He therefore proposed that  no action be taken.
(7) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) could not recall any such  programme in the Department of Natural Sciences.  The Centre had been established by the Indian Gov-  ernment under the technical assistance programme,  and the resolution supported the lines of action.
(8) Mr. LEE (Umted States of America) said that he  was not opposing the idea, which he considered an  excellent one,
(9) Interpreting the feeling of the meeting, Mr.  MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) suggested that,  when the technical assistance programme came vp  for discussion, the delegation of India should make a  statement drawing attention to the value of the project  and thus providing the Secretariat with pointers to the  degree of importance to be given to the proposed  activity in that programme.
(10) The CHAIRMAN invited the representative of  the Executive Board to report the comments of the  Board.
(11) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) said that the  Board's views were as follows:  First section: Development of International  Collaboration  The Executive Board recommended its adoption on  the understanding that Unesco would only be required  to inform Member States of existing centres and  encourage them to ask for similar ones under the  technical assistance programme, and also that the  project involved no budgetary implications for Unesco.  Second section: International Exchange  T..e Executive Board expressed its approval,  noting that there were no budgetary implications.  Third section: Dissemination and Teaching of  Natural Sciences  The Executive Board welcomed the proposal and  recommended that a study be prepared for the minth  General Conference and that Member States be en-  couraged to submit suggestions as early as possible  to help the Secretariat in its work.  Fourth section: Development of Scientific  Co-operation  The Executive Board was opposed to the proposal,  since the activities under (a) and (b) were already  being carried out and {c) was a programme within the  field of the United Nations.  Fifth section: Subvention of $3,000 to the Indian  National Committee for Mathematics  The Executive Board was favourable to the proposal
(12) The CHAIRMAN said that the Advisory  Committee had already agreed to make a recom-  mendation on ihe necessity for resoluticns to be  sent at an early date for inclusion in the next  programme and budget.
(13) He invited the Committee to return to dis-  cussion of the first resolution (Development of  International Collaboration).  - 753 -   vI-17 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET
(14) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) moved the adoption of the  resolution on the understanding that it did not come  within the budget of the regular programme.
(15) Mr. LEE (United States of America) said that  budgetary implications could not be avoided: the  Secretariat would inevitably be called upon to incur  some expenditure, if only in time allocated to the  project.
(16) Mr. CABOUAT (France) asked whether the  action proposed in the draft resolution was not already  covered by certain passages in the Organization's  programme, in which case it would be pointless to  adopt it.
(17) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) replied that the proposal of the delegation  of India was not completely covered by the programme  as it stood. Under draft resolution 2,12 (paragraph
40), the Director-General was authorized to advise  and encourage international organizations concerned  with the development and improvement of scientific  documentation; with the standardization of termino-  logy; with the compilation of multilingual dictionaries  and with the improvement of scientific translations.  The project before the Committee was designed to  assist towards the establishment of national centres  and was a typical technical assistance item; Unesco  had already taken action on four separate occasions  under that programme to assist in the foundation of  scientific bodies which had proved successful. He  felt it preferable not to confuse the ordinary and the  technical assistance programmes.
(18) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) said that there were no  budgeta: \ implications at the present stage, since the  resolution was only concerned with possible future  action. Whiie the Umted Nations technical assistance  rrogramme was limited, that of Unesco was broad and  spread over all parts of the programme; it would  therefore be possible to support the idea in general  terms, leaving the Secretariat to arrange projects in  accordance with the wishes of Member Governments.
(19) The CHAIRMAN interpreted the Indian delegate's  statement as seconding the delegate of Israel's  proposal, in spite of the comment of the United States  delegate on use of Secretariat time,
(20) Mi. LEE (United States of America) said that  his comment should not be taken as indicating  disapproval of the idea behind the resolution.
(21) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) said that the  Indian Government was to be congratulated on its  Scientific Documentation Centre, and it was a good  principle to make useful activities in one country  known to others. He thought, however, that, before  adding to existing resolutions, it would be well to  consider whether there were other methods of  achieving the desired object, for example, through  clearing house activities in the Department of  Natural Sciences, or through the Indian National  Commission. He supported Mr. Auger's remarks  concerning resolution 2.12 (paragraph 40) and on the  advisability of not confusing regular and technical    assistance programmes. Unesco already hadenough  work to handle at the international level, and should  not undertake activities at a national level. He  appealed to the delegate of India not to press the  proposai.
(22) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) was puzzled by the  remarks of the United Kingdom delegate. A resolu-  tion could not be ruled out of order because 1t related  to an activity initiated in a Member State, and in any  case Unesco perforn.ed its work through Member  States.
(23) M». MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  suggested that the exploration of the possibility of  establishing such centres be treated as a normal  activity of the science co-operation offices, to be  undertaken in conjunction with the Member States of  the region concerned. If such projects took shape,  they could be included in the draft programme for
1957-58, when the Director-G, neral would consider  whether they should be put in the ordinary or the  technical assistance programme.
(24) The CHAIRMAN asked for a vote on the proposal  of the delegate of Israel, seconded by the lelegate of  India, that the resolution bé approved on the under-  standing that it had no budgetary implications.
(25) The proposal was adopted by 7 votes to 2 with
1 abstention.
(26) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) introduced the second item of the Indian  motion (International Exchange) dealing with the  international exchange of technical books, periodicals,  scientific films and other scientific material. What  was proposed was in fact one of the normal respon-  sibilities of the Director-General and the effecting of  such exchanges was a routine task of the Secretariat  and more especially of the science co-operation  offices. Thur, the only point of the proposal would  be to remind the Secretariat of the importance of such  exchanges.
(27) Mr. LEE (United States of America) said that  elaborate and expensive machinery a.ready existed  for working out programmes and integrating plans and  ideas; what was needed was to encourage the  Initiative of the Secretariat and Member Governments.  He did not oppose the Indian Government's resolution  but believed that from a procedural point of view the  Secretariat already had the necessary authority.
(28) Mr. BOW (Canada) agreed with the United States  delegate. It was important to give the Secretariat a  free hand and not restrict it by the terminology of  resolutions, He proposed that the recommendation  be referred back to the Secretariat for information.
(28) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) did not understand  the procedural complications, Unesco had a pro-  gramme for 1955-56 covering a vast variety of subjects  and he could not see how recommendations concern-  ing emphasis on different aspects would either hamper  or give unlimited powers to the Secretariat, He would  like clarification from the Secretariat on the subject  - 754 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET
(30) The CHATRMAN said that the remarks of the  United States and Canadian delegates did not concern  the procedure of the Committee, which was entirely  within its rights in making recommendations to the  Programme and Budget Commission. They related  to the general procedures of the Organization and it  would be useful to have comments from the Secre-  tariat on its general procedure in dealing with new  projects.
(31) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  observed that a major q :estion of procedure had  indeed been raised, He felt that, if such resolutions  were adopted by the General Conference and incor-  porated in the programme, the effect would be to  give an impression of dispersion which the Director -  General had been at pains to avoid in drawing up the  programme. Besides, it would overstress certain  aspects of a given problem and the Secretariat would  have the feeling that it was likely to be too definitely  committed - which was certainly not the intention of  tne indian proposal.  {32) The Committee might perhaps suggest a  procedure to the General Conference for dealing with  such resolutions: it would consist in recommending  the Director-General to take any such proposals  submitted by delegations into account, in the execution  of the programme adopted and in the preparation of  the programme for the following period. In other  words, he would suggest that such proposals be  covered by a general directive accompanied by a list  of the suggestions of delzgations. That procedure  would avoid supplementary resolutions, while still  satisfying delegations wishing to see emphasis laid  on certain programme items, The Secretariat would  thus have the benefit of directives while retaining its  freedom of action.
(33) The CHAIRMAN said that the Assistant Director-  General's suggestion was helpful. [It was not clear,  however, whether the indication that the Committee  might want, in certain cases, to recommend to the  Commission tha" resolutions be borne in mind by tne  Secretariat in executing the 1955-56 programme ard  preparing the 1957-58 programme, implied that the  Committee considered that tke text of the resolution  should not be approved.
(34) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  agreed with the Cnairman. As he had already  mentioned, the Secretariat would be sorry to see the  text adonted as it stood, and he suggested that its  substance, in summarized form, be incorporated in  a list of suggestions to the Director-Gereral.
(35) Mr. CABOUAT (France) thought that, in the  light of what had been said, the Committee could, as  each draft resolution came up for consideration,  decide whether it was a rzal resolution with budgetary  implicaiions, or whether it was a suggestion suitable  for inclusion in the propcsed general resolution to be  addressed to the Director-General.
(36) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) considered that the reso-  lution had budgetary implications and he proposed  that it should not be adopted as a recommendation  but submitied for ‘1e Secretariat's attention.
(37) Mr. BOW (Canada) thanked the Assistant  Director-General for his able elaboration of his  remark on terminology. The Secretariat and the  Executive Board had constantly given assurances that  they were in the hands of the Committee, but he did  not wish to see them bound by resolutions in respect  of which there had not been time to study either the  terminology or their effect on the programme and  budget.
(38) The CHAIRMAN asked for a vote on the proposal  of the United States delegate, seconded by the dele-  gate of Israel, that the resolution be transmitted to  the Secretariat for guidance in executing the 1955-56  programme and preparing the 1957-58 programme.
(39) The proposal was adopted by 11 votes to 1 with  no abstentions.
(40) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) introduced the third part of DR/18 on the  dissemination and teaching of natural sciences. The  proposal appeared to be covered by the decision just  taken by the Committee, for it was a question of  authorizing the Director-General to examine the  matter and submit the resolution formally to the  General Conference at its ninth session, if he thought  that satisfactory results could be expected. The  proposal might, thercfore, be included among the  suggestions to the Secretariat for the ninth session of  the General Conference,
(41) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) questioned the right of  the Committee to change the nature of resolutions  submitted by Member Governments.
(42) The CHAIRMAN said that the Committee, under  its terms of reference, could make any recommenda-  tion which it deemed fitting in respect of the adoption  or modification of a proposal. In reply to a further  comment by the delegate of India, he said that the  Conference was free to take whatever action it  considered advisable on the Committee's recom-  mendations, but the Committee had freedom of  recommendation.
(43) Mr. LEE (United States of America) proposed  that the Committee should recommend adoption of  the resolution on the understanding that the Secre-  tariat would consider it within the framework des-  cribed by the Chairman in respect of the previous  section,
(44) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) seconded the  proposal.
(45) Mr. CABOUAT (France) pointed out that the  procedure proposed by the United States delegate was  contrary to that which the Committee had recently  decided to follow. It was not a question of adopting  a resolution, but of including the item in a general  resolution giving the Director-General directives for  the execution of the programme for 1955-56 and the  preparation of the programme for 1957-58.
(46) Mr. LEE (United States of America)accepted  that interpretation.  - 155 -   VI-17
(47) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) ex-  plained that his idea was to sort the draft resolutions  Into two lists of directives to the Director-General:
(1) for action under the programme for 1955-56 and
(2) for use in the preparation of the programme for
1957-58. The substance of draft resolutions would  be given in one or other of those lists, or possibly in  both. He felt that the draft resolution at present  under discussion should appear only in the second list.
(48) The CHAIRMAN said that the proposal of the  United States delegate was henceforth to be envisaged  under the second category of projects, those calling  for study with a view to possible inclusion in the  programme for 1957-58.
(49) The proposal was adopted unanimously.
(50) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) introduced the fourth point in the draft  resolution - "Development of Scientific Co-operation’,  which had several subdivisions, Section (a) - sym-  posia on subjects connected with geo’ogical and  geophysical studies of the earth's crust in South East  Asia - was largely covered by ICSU's arrangements  for a "Geophysical Year" in 1957-58 and it seemed  pointless to stage another symposium over and above  its programme, in which Unesco was collaborating.  Section (b) provided for regional symposia on the  development of wind, water and solar energy; there  again, a symposium on the same subject had recently  been held in Delhi and Mr, Auger thought that the  publication of the proceedings of that meeting would  achieve the delegate of India's purpose. Section (c)  concerned symposia on calendar reforms and 1t would  be recalled that the Executive Board had taken the  view that 1t was an activity falling rather within the  province of the United Nations; Unesco could deal  only with the scientific aspect, which had already been  dealt with thoroughly. In any case, the obstacles to  the adoption of a universal calendar were less  scientific than political.
(51) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) proposed the adoption of  the Executive Board's recommendation.
(52) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) seconded the  proposal, which was adopted unammously.
(53) Taking the last paragraph in the resolution (Sub-  vention of $3,000 to the indian National Committee  for Mathematics), the CHAIRMAN recalled that the  Executive Board was in favour of the resolution.
(54) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) said that the project was one to which the  Union of Mathematical Science attached great  importance.  (Mr. BOW (Canada) asked whether the subvention  would meet the criteria established for Unesco  subventions.
(56) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)said  that ii would meet the criteria for contracts but  not for subventions.    ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET
(57) Mr. LEE (United States of America) opposed the  recommendation on the grounds that the project  needed more study. A large sum of money was  involved and it should be weighe up as carefully as  other projects.
(58) The proposal of the United States delegate,  seconded by the delegate of Canada, that the Commit-  tee should not recommend adoption of the resolution  was adopted by 5 votes to 4 with 2 abstentions.  DR/29: International Computation Centre
(59) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) said that the  Executive Roard recommended adoption of the  resolution 1n order to keep the project in force  pending the decision of Member States on ratification.
(60) The CHAIRMAN asked for information on the  budgetary implications of the project.
(61) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) stated that, if the Committee decided, in  accordance with the Italian proposal, that a subven-  tion should be granted to the Preparatory Committee  of the Computation Centre, the Secretariat would  propose to allocate a total sum of $3,000 for the two  years, Obviously, if the necessary ratifications  were not secured in the two-year period 1955-56, all  aid from Unesco to the Committee would cease. One  thousand five hundred dollars would be appropriated  for each of the two years, on the understanding that,  if all the ratifications were secured in 1955, the  subvention to the Committee for1956 would automat: -  cally lapse. To date, four ratifications had been  received, coming, in chronological order, from  Japan, Belgium, Italy and Ceylon. Six further  ratifications were needed for the Centre to come  legally into being.
(62) Mr. LEE (Umted <‘ates of America) asked  whether the project was described 1n the proposed  programme and budget,
(63) The CHAIRMAN said that it had appeared in  previous programmes but was not included in the  present proposals,
(64) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  confirmed that nothing was included in the proposed  programme for 1955-56; what the Italian delegation  was asking for was the restoration of the appropria-  tions in the 1953-54 budget of $5,000 per year, The  intention of the Secretariat was to set aside $1,500  per year for this project, on the understanding that,  if ten ratifications were received before 1956, the  appropriation for 1956 would be cancelled automatically.
(65) In reply to a question from Mr. AVIDOR (Israel)  why there was no appropr.ation in the proposed  programme for 1955-56 Mr. AUGER (Director,  Department of Natural Sciences) said that the  omission was on grounds of principle: with a conven  tion in prospect, the Secretariat was bound toassume  that it would be ratified and that there would be no  time -lag between its signature and its entry into  furce. The Italian delegation, on the other  - 756 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VI-17  hand, anticipated such a time-lag and was  requesting aid to cover 1t.
(66) Mr, CABOUAT (France) asked the nature of the  Preparatory Committee's present work.
(67) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) replied that its task was to prepare pre-  mises for the prospective centre; as a result of the  contract concluded by Unesco in 1854, office space  had been made available to the Centre in Rome and  some people were already working there. The Com-  mittee had to draw up a list of the material needed  in order that the Centre might start to operate  immediately the necessary ratifications were  received. The Italian Orgamzing Committee could  continue that preparatcry work,
(68) Mr. LEE (United States of America) asked  whether, if the Centre was only to come into existence  at an unspecified dite in the future, there would be a  loss on time and money already expended and on  deterioration of machinery.
(69) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) replied that the Italian Orgamzing Commit-  tee was conducting negotiations with manufacturers  of computation machines with a view lo securing them  on free loan for a given term of years or to obtaining  special purchase prices. The work already done  would be lost if suspended, as the entire series of  negotiations would have to be started again.
(70) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) asked whether the  assistance in question could not take the form of a  subvention.
(71) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) explained that the assistance given to the  Italian Organizing Committee had been in the form of  contracts for the fitting out of the offices and that it  was requesting the extension of those contracts.
(72) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) pointed out that  the Centre was mentioned in paragraph 61 of Chapter
2 of the proposed programme and budget in conjunc-  tion with the European Centre for Nuclear Reseacch.  The latter was established under the impetus of  Unesco but with the entire cost provided by partici-  pating Member States; he wondered whether the  same principle was applied to the Computation Centre.  In that case, the grant should be in the form of a  loan and not a subvention, and he asked whether or  not it would be recoverable.
(73) To clarify the proceedings, Mr. AUG.:R (Direc  tor, Department of Natural Sciences) pointed out that  the European Centre for Nuclear Research had cost  Unesco the relatively low sum of $25,000, because  the main expenses of preparation had been borne by  the Member States of the interim and, later, the  permanent body. In the case of the Italian  Committee, provision had been made for a sum  of $60,000 as a loan repayable within three  years, but, as the Centre had not started  operations, the relevant authorization had lapsed.  What was henceforth proposed was merely    the conclusion of an ordinary contract of $1,500  per year,
(74) The CHAIRMAN asked how many countries had  signed the agreement and how many ratifications  might be expected in the near future, bearing in mind  legislative procedures in the respective countries.
(75) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) replied that eleven signatures had been  received, which was one more than the number of  ratifications required to bring the Convention into  force.
(76) Mr. BOW (Canada) asked whether the Committee  or the Secretariat had the right to amend a govern-  mental resolution in respect of the form or the amount  of the money involved, He also wished to know how  long the Convention had been open for ratification and  how many instruments had been deposited within the  past year.
(77) The CHAIRMAN stated that the Committee had  the power to recommend modificat ons and had in fact  done so with regard to a previous project.
(78) Mr. BOW (Canada) pointed out that in that  instance a representative of the proposing government  had been present. There was no Italian representative  at the present discussions,
(79) The CHAIRMAN said that the Italian delegate to  the Programme and Budget Commission would have  an opportunity to express his views,
(80) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) explained that the Convention had been open  to ratification since 1952; the Italian ratification -  which was essential - had not been secured until 1954  and there were grounds for hoping that it would lead  to other ratifications, though it had to be remembered  that a somewhat lengthy procedure was always involved.
(81) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)stated  that the eleven signatories were Belgium, Egypt, Iraq  Israel, Italy, Japan, Liberia, Merico, Turkey,  Netherlands and Ceylon.
(82) Mr. CABOUAT (France) moved that the Commit-  tee recommend adoption of the project in contract  form, with appropriations reduced to a total sum of  $3,000 for the two years.
(83) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) proposed that  the application be rejected. If his motion were  defeated, he would propose that a grant be made in  the form of a recoverable loan.
(84) The proposal of the United Kingdom delegate,  seconded by the delegate of Norway, was rejected by
3 votes to 5 with 3 abstentions.
(85) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) submitted his  alternative proposal as an amendment to the  proposal of the delegate of France, agreeing to  the reduction of the figure to $3,000,  - 157 -   VI-17
(86) The delegate of France accepted the amendment.
(87) In reply to a question from Mr. AVIDOR(Israel)  the CHAIRMAN said that the loan would be made to the  Interim Committee,
(88) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) drew  attention to a legal difficulty, namely, that the advance  would be made to one body - the Preparatory Com-  mittee - but would be repayable by another, the  Computation Centre, when and if it came into  existence,
(89) Mr. SILLER (Mexico, asked wiillc., suvuld  the Convention not be ratified, the Preparatory  Committee would be in a position to repay the loan.
(90) Mr. MAHZU (Assistant Director-General)  replied that he would find it difficult to answer that  question.
(91) The proposal of the delegate of France,amended  and seconded by the delegate of the United Kingdom,  was adopted by 9 votes to nil, with 1 abstention.
(92) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) asked how the  loan wouid be recovered if, through lack of  ratifications, the Interim Committee ceased to  functien.
(93) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  proposed to make a statement on this point at a later  stage.  DR/35: Conservation of Natural Resources
(94) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) introduced draft resolutions DR/35, DR/54  and DR/60, which the Executive Board had dealt with  together because all three related to the same pro-  blem. In very many countries, dam building,  irrigation and other work were undertaken for  commercial ends without regard to the wider consi-  derations of their possible long-term effects on  hydrology, flora and fauna. It was suggested(DR/35)  that a committee composed of engineers, public  works contractors and naturalists be convened to  draw up a scheme for the requisite research, which  would be handled by contract, The proposal in  DR/54 was connected with that project and DR/60  concerned the publication of a book, The Executive  Board had suggested that the project be executed in  three stages: (1) preparatory stage (bibliographical  research and a brief report on work already carried  out); (2) meeting of an expert committee to draw the  inferences from the preliminary investigations;
(3) publication of results in a book suitable for the  general public. The Executive Board's idea was  that only the first two stages could be attacked in 1955  and 1956 and that the appropriations would be for the  preparatory work and the meeting of the committee,  The Secretariat had suggested reducing the appropria-  tions requested by concluding a contract of $2,000 for  the first item and allocating $4,000 for the meeting  of experts, i.e. a total of $6,000 for the two years.
(95) The CHAIRMAN asked whether it was a fact that    ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  the Executive Board had decided in favour of draft  resolution DR/35 and against draft resolution DR/54.
(96) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) believed that the Executive Board had  approved DR/35 and DR/60, which related to the  effects of catchment works on flora and fauna, but  without approving the figures suggested and with  postponement of the third stage of the we". cuir 1907-
58, Document DR/%: naa not been considered by the  Executive Board.
(87) Mrs, PECSON (Executive Board) confirmed the  statement of the Director of the Department of Natural  Sciences, The Executive Board had recommended  that the resolution contained in document 8C/DR/60 be  postponed until the ninth session of the General  Conference,
(98) The CHAIRMAN said that three stages were  envisaged: initial bibliographical work, establishing  a committee of experts, and publication of the results  for inclusion in the 1957-58 programme.
(99) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) asked whether,  in so far as the project related to the construction of  hydroelectric dams, Unesco had approached non-  governmental organizations or the industries con-  cerned with a view to obtaining financial and other  assistance,
(100) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) was under the impression that what the  delegate of the United Kingdom had in mind was not  so much the International Union for the Protection of  Nature as the International Commission on Large  Dams and the World Power Conference, which were  concerned exclusively with the technical aspect of  hydraulic works without regard to their biological  implications. What was proposed was a joint  committee consisting of representatives of the three  organizations he had just mentioned. The proposed  appropriations were very modest ($2,000 and $4,000,  as the Secretariat was counting on a financial contri-  bution from those organizations, which could not but  be interested in the question,
(101) Mr. LEE (United States of America) said that  the resolutions concerned a very important subject,  on which there had been much investigation, both  nationally and internationally. He proposed that, as  with earlier resolutions, the Secretariat be authorized  to draw up plans during 1955-56 and prepare proposals  for the 1957-58 period,
(102) The CHAIRMAN defined the proposal of the  delegate of the United States of America as recom-  mending the acceptance of the tenor of the projects  and authorizing the Director-General to make a study  in 1955-56 with a view to possible proposals in the
(103) Mr. LEE (United States of America) said  that it had already been agreed to give priority  to arid zone research and he assumed that the  Secretariat would bear that in mind if any  additional funds should be available,  - 758 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROOGRAMMNE AND BUDGET
(104) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) reminded the Committee that arid zone  matters were the responsibility of an Advisory Com-  mittee which commended specific tasks to the  Secretariat. The suggestion of the United States  delegate to include the problem of dams in the  Committee 's responsibilities would have to go before  the Executive Board and the Committee itself.
(105) The CHAIRMAN, referring to the proposal of  the delegate of the United States of America (para-  graph 101) said that the Director-General would be  authorized in 1955-56 to study the question in consul-  tation with the Advisory Committee on Arid Zones and,  if the results were setisfactory, to include proposals  for further work in 1957-58,
(106) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) suggested that the pro-  posed survey be combined with the studies advocated  by the delegation of Uruguay (document DR/42), which  appeared to have a connexion with the subject under  discussion,
(107) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) did not see how the proposal in DR/42 could  be combined with tne other three (DR/35, DR/54 and  DR/60), which embodied purely technical proposals,  whereas the suggestion of the delegation of Uruguay  was only to awaken the public to the question of the  conservation of natural resources in general.
(108) Mr. RANIERI (Uruguay) thanked the represen-  tative of Mexico for his kind thought, but agreed with  Mr. Auger that the draft resolution submitted by  Uruguay differed fundamentally from that of France  in document DR/35. The Uruguayan proposal related  rather to the preservation of flora and fauna and the  soil, and should be studied separately.
(109) The CHAIRMAN thanked the delegate of Uruguay  and said that, 1f there were no objection, DR/42  would be dealt with separately.
(110) In the hope of soon reaching a solution, Mr.  CABOUAT (France) asked Mr. Auger what the  Secretariat's budget estimates would be if the  Committee advised the Programme and Budget  Commission to combine the three draft resolutions,
(111) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) replied that, as he had already indicated,  the budget estimates for the three resolutions to-  gether, excluding the publication of the book were  $6,000, i.e. $2,000 for the preparatory study and  $4,000 for the meeting of the proposed Committee.  That meeting would be possible only if the organiza-  tions concerned also made a financial contribution.  The book suggested might be published in 1957-58,
(112) Mr. BOW (Canada) seconded the United States  delegate 's proposal, in the interest of concentration  of the programme, and on the understanding that the  project would be considered in direct relation to  arid zone research,
(113) Mr. CABOUAT (France) pointed out that the  proposed activities transcended the scope of arid zone    VI-17  research and involved other types of regions as weil.  He therefore formally moved that the Director-  General be authorized to undertake such activities  with a total appropriation of $6,000 for the next two  years, and that the whole project be given a lower  priority.
(114) The above proposal was seconded by Mr,  AVIDOR (Israel).
(115) The proposal of the delegate of the United States  of America was put to the vote and adopted by 6 votes  to 3, with 2 abstentions,
(116) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  observed that the Committee's decision meant that the  project would be included in the second list of  suggestions, the list of pointers for the preparation of  the programme for 1957-58.  DRs 42 and 58
(117) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) outlined the substance of DR/42 and DR/58,  and gave additional details. For the special case to  which DR/58 related, he quoted an estimate of $5,000.  The Executive Board had approved all those sugges-  tions, together with the appropriation of $6,000 for  the special purpose of publishing a book,
(118) In reply to a question from Mr. AVIDOR(Israe},  the CHAIRMAN said that the Executive Board's  attitude had been favourable to both resolutions, the  total budget for which was $6,000,
(119) Mr. LEE (United States of America) proposed  that the resolutions be dealt with in the way he had  suggested for previous projects.
(120) The proposal, seconded by the delegates of the  United Kingdom and Germany, was adopted by 8 votes  to 1 with 2 abstentions.
(121) Mr. CABOUAT (France) remarked that the  whole position needed clarifying; as a result of the  voting on the two resolutions, the Director-General  was authorized to undertake in 1955-56, with the funds  provided in the draft programme and budget, studies  relating to the conservation of n£tural resources and  teaching on that subject. Yet the Assistant Director-  General seemed to think that the result of the voting  was merely to provide directives for the preparation  of the programme for 1957-58,
(122) Mr. LEE (United States of America) said that  he had not intended to bring in new issues.
(123) The CHAIRMAN said that his understanding was  that the Director-General would study the proposals  themselves and not the studies which they provided  for, with a view to possible inclusion of precise  proposals in the 1857-58 programme.
(124) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) explained that no action by the Secretariat  was planned in 1955-56, beyond preparatory studies  - 759 -   VI-17 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAKME AND BUDGET  with a view to the inclusion in the programme for
1957-58 of resolutions defining specific tasks,
(125) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  reminded the meeting that no funds were available,  so that the Secretariat could not even put preliminary  studies in hand; all it could do was to consider the  possibility of including the project in the future  programme.
(126) Mr. CABOUAT (France) explained that he had  raised the question because the delegate of the Umted  States of America apparently anticipated that the  actual work would be begun in 1935-56.
(127) The CHAIRMAN said that the Advisory Com-  mittee on Arid Zone Research would be called on to  advise the Director-General in his study.
(128) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  repeated that there was no money available.
(129) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) said that, as the project was not included  in the programme for 1955-56, the Secretariat could  not take action on it,  DR/44: Establishment in Spain of a Pilot Centre for  the Study of Methods of Teaching Science in  Secondary Schools
(150) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) said that the  Executive Board had studied documents 8C/DR/44  and 8C/DR/51 together and was not in favour of the  latter, With regard to the former, the Board  recommended that the proposal be carried out under  the technical assistance programme,  {131) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) pointed out that DR/51 was not identical  with DR/44. The latter provided for the establish-  ment of "a Latin American Pilot Centre for the study  of methods of teaching science in secondary schools  and for the training of teachers of scientific and  technical subjects for such schools", whereas DR/51  provided explicitly for the establishment of such a  centre in Spain. Was DR/S1, therefore, an  amplification of DR/447?
(132) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  remarked that, offhand, such appeared to be the case,
(133) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) suggestad that, as the  representative of Spain was present, perhaps he  could say whether that interpretation of the draft  resolution was correct.
(134) The CHAIRMAN, in reply to a question from  the delegate of Israel, confirmed that the Executive  Board had recommended that the Government of Spain  be advised to apply for technical assistance, and the  proposal would accordingly not be submitted to the  General Conference,
(135) A proposal by the delegate of Israel, seconded  by the delegate of the Umted Kingdom, that the    Executive Board's recommendation be followed, was  adopted unanimously.
(136) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the delegate of  Spain would have an opportunity of stating his point of  view at a later stage.  DR/47: Scientific Exchanges
(137) Mrs, PECSON (Executive Board) said that the  Executive Board was interested in the proposal but,  in the light of information from the Director, Depart-  ment of Natural Sciences and the Director, Department  of Cultural Activities, had decided to refer it to the  international Council of Museums.
(138) Acceptance of the Executive Board's recom-  mendation was proposed by the delegate of Canada,  seconded by the delegate of the United Kingdom and  adopted unanimously.
(139) Mr. RANIERI (Uruguay) wished to hear from  Mrs. Pecson what the Executive Board's views were  on the subject,
(140) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) explained that  the Board regarded the activity proposed by the  Uruguayan delegation as extremely important;however,  a body responsible for carrying out such work was  already in existence. That did not mean that the  Board rejected the Uruguayan proposal.
(141) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)asked  whether the Executive Board intended that the meeting  of directors of zoological gardens, referred to in  DR/47, should be financed out of ICOM's budget, or  whether it felt that, since an additional task was to be  imposed on the Council, a special contract should be  concluded with it.
(142) The CHAIRMAN interpreted the vote as recom-  mending the transfer to ICOM, which would be free  to take it up or not, within the limits of its own  budgetary resources, Replying to a question from  the delegate of Israel, he said that ICOM might  possibly ask for a subvention,  DR/56: Dissemination of Science
(143) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) said that the  Board had postponed a decision pending further  information.
(144) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) thought that it would be difficult to throw  any further light on the question. As he did not know  the Scientific Information Centre of the Municipahty  of Montevideo, it was difficult for him to form an  idea of what its use would mean. It was impossible  to give any figures for the project until a thorough  preparatory study had been made.
(145) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) asked whether at  would be possible to carry out the study to  which Mr. Auger had referred before the Commit-  tee took a decision in the matter and, if not, whether  the draft resolution of Uruguay would have to be rejected.  - 760 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON
(146) The CHAIRMAN said that the procedure would  be first a clarification from the delegate of Uruguay,  then comments by the Executive Board, after which  the Secretariat would fix budgetary limitations and  the Advisory Committee would consider action before  the proposal was submitted to the Programme  Commission.
(147) Mr. LEE (United States of America) objected  that action could not be taken in time for the matter  to be dealt with by the present Conference. There  was considerable merit in the project, but there was  need for much investigation before the Scientific  Information Centre in Montevideo could be accepted  as a pilot project. He proposed that, as with earlier  resolutions, the matter be referred to the Secretariat  for study.
(148) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) proposed that the possi-  bility of action under the technical assistance  programme should be considered.
(149) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) said that a study should be made in 1955-56  and the project be included in the proposals for 195% -
58 either under the regular programme or under the  technical assistance programme.
(150) Mr, RANIERI (Uruguay) found the proposed  dates satisfactory and stated that the Uruguayan  authorities would gladly provide whoever was respon-  sible for the imtial study with all the data and  information he might require.
(151) The proposal was adopted by 9 votes to 1}  with 1 abstention.    PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VI-18  DR/59: Arid Zone
(152) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) said that the  Executive Board had considered it unnecessary to  endorse the proposal since the project already  appearcd in the programme.
(153) It was agreed that no action was necessary.  DR/61:  Biology  Physical Oceanography and Marine
(154) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) said that the  Executive Board, after an explanation by the Director,  Department of Natural Sciences, had agreed to support  the Secretariat's proposal to set up an advisory  committee on marine biology.
(155) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) recalled that, when the question of  oceanography had been raised, he had made a  statement proposing certain modifications of the  programme. The proposal in DR/61, of which  he had been unaware at that time, put the Se-  cretariat's proposals in a rather more lega’  form. Accordingly, acceptance of this Japanese  proposal would amount, for the Secretzriat, to  acceptance of its own proposals, 1nvolv.ng  transfers within the budget with no additional funds.
(156) Document DR/61 was approved.  The meeting rose at 12.50 p.m.  EIGHTEENTH MEETING
11 November 1954 at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman : Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Australia)  ITEM 7.3 OF THE AGENDA : DISCLSSION OF DRAFT RESOLU-  TIONS SUBMITTED BY MEMBER STATES (continued)  Draft resolutions affecting the Department of Social  Sciences  DR/5: Peaceful Co-operation
(1) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) said that the  Executive Board had not recommended this resolution  because it felt that the proposed study would not  produce practical results for Unesco's work.
(2) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences) said thai the major part of this resolution    consisted of an appeal to the General Conference for  an expression of faith in the possibilities of resolving  all tensions through the exercise of restraint, toler-  ance, understanding and goodwill, The last sentence  proposed a study. The Secretariat thought that it  would be difficult to propose a work plan for such a  study; more information was required. Preliminary  work was necessary, which could be undertaken in 1955  and 1956 and could be used to clarify the issue. It  would consist of asking international congresses to  include the subject on their agendas. Unesco would  then give contrac's for undertaking the study and,  finally, the services of a consultant would be required  to make an inventory of all research work being done  in this connexion. In future years, the work could  - 761 -