VI-36 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  THIRTY-SIXTH MEETING
6 December 1954 at 6 p.m.  Chairman : Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Australia)  RESUME OF BUDGETARY EFFECTS OF DECISIONS TAKEN BY  THE PROGRAMME AND BUDGET COMMISSION AND THE ADMI-  NISTRATIVE COMMISSION, AND PROPOSED REDUCTIONS  WITHIN THE BUDGET FOR 1933-36, TO BALANCE THE BUDGET  (document 8C/BUD/4)
(1) The CHAIRMAN said that the Programme and  Budget Commission had completed its work on the  programme for 1955-56. He understood that the  programme approved by the Commission represented  an increase of some $365,000 over the provisional  ceiling decided on by the Conference. The Commit-  tee was called upon to adapt that programme to the  ceiling on the basis of the proposals made by the  Director-General in document 8C/BUD/4.
(2) The first part of the document outlined the activu  taken by the Commission, while the second  contained a series of proposals for reduction.
(3) The task faced by the Director-General in  harmonizing the Committee's recommendations with  the decisions (sometimes in direct contradiction  with each other) taken by the Commission, had been  exceedingly difficult. He hoped that the Committee  would be able to accept the proposzls as a whole,  even though individual members might have  misgivings about certain items.
(4) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that his task  had not been easy. It had been necessary to strike  a balance between contradictory wishes expressed  by different organs of the Conference,
(5) In cases where increases had been made in the  cost of combined activities, and the Secretariat felt  that the Conference wished to maintain those  increases, or as much of them as possible, it had  sometimes been necessary, in order to balance the  budget, to take money from aid to Member States  in general and devote it to aid to Member States  in particular,
(6) The Committee would also note some reduction  in staff costs, not only in common services but  also in individual posts.
(7) The CHAIRMAN said that the first eight pages  (in which minor corrections were required as a  result of the afternoon meeting of the Prog: amme  Commission) were for purposes of information only,  and he would propose that the Committee start with  a discussion of page 9.
(8) At so late a stage in the Conference's work, he  trusted that members disagreeing with the Director-  General's proposals would present suggestions  themselves, any deletion from those proposals  necessitating a suggestion for a corresponding  - 858 -     amount to be eliminated elsewhere in the  programme.
(9) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) enquired about  the possibility of transferring money, within budget  lines, from one chapter to another, and asked for  a table showing the appropriation lines.
(10) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Programme  and Budget) explained that, on page 1, appropriation  lines were shown as would be provided for in the  appropriation resolution. The Executive Board had  recommended that each department constitute only  one appropriation line, as an improvement on the  practi~r~ 250i wz? in nast years.
(11) The Director-General would be authorized to  make transfers within each line, But, if money  were to be transferred from one line to another,  authorization would have to be obtained from the  Executive Board,
(12) Mr, ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) said that, if  for any reason a pr ject were deleted altogether  from the programme, the possibility of making  money available for such a project, should it prove  to be desirable in the course of the financial  period, would be considerably reduced.
(13) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that, after  the Conference, the Secretariat would prepare  Approved Work Plans for the various departments,  on the basis of the resolutions adopted, and with  due regard to points made by the delegations  during the session. If any project had been deleted  altogether from the programme, the Secretariat  would not feel authorized to revive it. However, if  a project were left in, the Secretariat would consider  it justified to transfer money to that project, if it  felt the need for doing so.
(14) Ordinarily the Secretariat implemented the  appropriation resolution without unnecessary  transfers. If it felt there were serious reasons  for not implementing any part of a resolution, it  would have to refer the matter to the Executive  Board.
(15) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) suggested that  it might be well to leave at least a token figure for  each project, rather than to delete it entirely, so  that the Director-General might be able to revive  it in certain circumstances,
(16) Mr, LEE (United States of America) said that  delegations had had insufficient time to study   Vi-31 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  document 8C/BUD/4, and proposed adjournment.
(17) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) agreed, but  wanted to know what principles had guided the  Director-General in making his proposals.
(18) Some projects had been adopted by the  Programme Commission by very small margins,  That was a point to which the Director-General  might have given attention in considering where to  make cuts.
(19) There seemed to be some inconsistency in the  treatment of subventions. Why were some sub-  ventions reduced while others were not mentioned  at al}?
(20) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that he had  tried to decide on the reductions to be made in    VI-37  subventions in the light of three factors: the views  expressed by the delegations in the Commissions,  his own views, and the opinions of the Heads of  Departments as to the cuts which would cause least  damage to the Unesco programme as a whole,
(21) Some savings had been effected by simply  postponing the date on which it was intended that  action should start. Thus, in connexion with  paragraph 222, it was proposed that money should  be saved by delaying the recruitment of staff for  several months.
(22) It was agreed to adjourn and to contine the  discussion at the next meeting.  The meeting rose at 6.30 p.m.  THIRTY-SEVENTH MEETING
7 December 1954 at 10 a.m.  Chauman : Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Australia)  RESUME OF BUDGETARY EFFECTS OF DECISIONS TAKEN BY  THE PROGRAMME AND BUDGET COMMISSION AND THE ADM}  NISTRATIVE COMMISSION AND PROPOSED REDUCTIONS  WITHIN THE BUDGET FOR 1953-56 TO BALANCE THE BUDGE  (document 8C/BUD/4) (continued)  SECOND PART : PROPOSED REDUCTIONS  PART I~ GENERAL POLICY  CHAPTER 1} — EXECUTIVE ROARD  Paragraph 17: Reduction of $102
(1) Approved,  PART Il — PROGRAMME OPERATIONS AND SERVICES  CHAPTER 1 — EDUCATION  Paragraph 51 - Subvention to World Confederation  of Organizations of the Teaching Profession
(2) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) asked whether  during the discussions in the Programme and Budget  Commission any proposals had been made for  increasing other subventions in the Department of  Education.
(3) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  replied in the negative.
(4) Mr. LEE (United States of America) considered  - 859 -     that, on the whole, document 8C/BUD/4 represented  an excellent piece of work on the part of the  Secretariat in adjusting the programme to meet the  views of the Conference and the various contingencies  which had arisen. In the present case, however, he  formally opposed the recommendation of the  Secretariat on paragraph 51. The World Confeder-  ation of Organizations of the Teaching Profession  was doing valuable work and to reduce its subvention,  without adequate explanation, at a time when  subventions were being granted to new organizations,  was contrary to the criteria which had been laid  down. The Programme and Budget Commission  had justly proposed restoring the subvention to its  level in previous years and he urged that that  recommendation should be adopted.
(5) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the Committee,  if it decided against any of the Direcior-General's  proposals, would have to indicate other items where  the reduction could be made. Any proposals for  maintaining budgetary provisions under one project  must therefore be accompanied by suggestions for  deletion elsewhere.
(6) Mr. LEE (United States of America) proposed  that the $4, 000 required under paragraph 51 should  be taken from the campaign against cancer  (Natural Sciences, paragraphs 101 and 102). He  further proposed deferment of the campaign and  retention of the funds for other purposes. The  Advisory Committee had recommended the  deletion of that project and the Programme and  Budget Commission had only approved it after