(50) Having thanked Mr. Cabouat for his statement,  the CHAIRMAN requested the Committee to consider  its programme of work. He tentatively suggested  that it meet in the mornings from 10 a. m, to 12,45  p.m. and in the afternoons from 3.30 to 7 p.m. In  view of the Committee's heavy agenda, he empha-  sized the need for punctuality.  PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VI-2
(51) The times of meeting suggested by the Chair-  man were approved,  The meeting rose at 12,30 p. m,  SECOND MEETING
1 November 1954 at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman: Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Australia)  ITEM 7.2 OF THE AGENDA : PRELIMINARY CONSIDERATION  OF THE DRAFT PROGRAMME AND BUDGET FOR 1955-56,  BEFORE THE OPENING OF THE SESSION (continued)
(1) Discussion being resumed on Item 7. 2 of the  Agenda, the CHAIRMAN called upon Mr. Sommerfelt.
(2) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) thanked the Com-  mittee for the honour done to his country in <lecting  him Vice-Chairman, He associated himself with the  reference made at the morning meeting to Mr. Hodson.
(3) The Norwegian Government agreed on the whole  with the new form in which the programme had been  drafted and with the programme itself. While whole-  heartedly in support of the Indian delegate as tc the  necessity of helping underdeveloped countries, he  recalled that Unesco's other aims in the field of in-  ternational collaboration should not be overlooked.  He also supported the view of the French delegate  on the necessity for collaboration between the im-  portant non-governmental organizations, especially  in the fields of science and culture,
(4) With regard to subventions, he thought that it  would be wise for the Committee to advise the Gene-  ral Conference as to amounts, since, if no limit  were fixed, discussion on totals would be duplicated,
(5) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) said that, owing to the  limitations of the budget, it would be necessary to  compromise on the programme, The fields of ac-  tivity would have to be limited but not to a point at  which the aims and purpose of Unesco were defeated.  The Indian delegate had advocated concentrating on  the masses in underdeveloped countries. It was ob-  vious that Unesco must work in those countries but  it was also necessary for it to work amongst educa-  ted peoples.
(6) Referring to the remarks made by the  French delegate, hc agreed that Unesco could  not be a Ministry of Education for the whole  world. It could advise countries on education  but could not do their work for them. It should  attempt to make unuerdaveloped countries aware  of their own responsibility in developing culture  amongst their people.    - 645 -
(7) There being no further speakers at this stage, the  CHAIRMAN asked the Committee how it wished to  proceed in its examination of the programme and  budget. The delegate of the United States, he added,  had already made suggestions in that matter.
(8) Mr, MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) said  that the Secretariat would probably be able to supply  on the following day the information requested that  morning by the United States delegation. As regards  the order of the discussion, the directors of Depart-  ments were prepared to adopt whatever order was  preferred by the Committee, However, they thought  it advisable to begin with the programme of the Edu-  cation Department, since that would, in their'view,  afford the best means of understanding the way in  which various aspects of the programme had been  linked up.
(9) The Committee agreed to begin with a detailed  examination of the Chapter on Education and then to  decide in what order the other Chapters should be  taken,
(10) The CHAIRMAN said that the question raised by  the Morwegian delegate on consideration of the budget  total came within the competence of the Committee  in its advisory capacity, but he suggested that such  consideration should be postponed until a scrutiny  had been made of the budget proposals.
(12) The CHAIRMAN suggested that the Deputy Direc-  tor of the Department of Education should be asked  to give a brief account of what the department was  proposing to do and that members of the Committee  should then be asked to comment generally on his  statement. Following this general discussion, the  Committee would discuss each proposal in detail.
(13) Agreed.   VI-2 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET
(14) Mr. GUITON (Deputy Director, Department of  Education) first drew the Committee's attention to  document 8C/5 Corr., page 7, which contained a  correction to the chapter on education, paragraph
94 (English text only). He went on to describe the  broad outline of the education programme, in the  light of the explanations given by the Assistant Direc-  tor-General on the sub-division of each chapter into  two main sections: general activities and special  activities, In the previous programme, a distinc-  tion had been made between general activities, which  were grouped under the heading "improvement of  education through the exchange of infor mation", and  activities relating to "extension of education". That  distinction had been discontinued, as being purely  artificial: exchange of information was necessary to  the extension of education no less than to its improve-  ment, In the programme for 1953-54 two separate  aims had been assigned to special activities: exten-  sion of education and education for living in a world  community, That arrangement had been somewhat  illogical and had done little to assist co-ordination  between different projects undertaken in pursuit of  both these aims. Fundamental education, for ins-  tance, seemed to be treated as a matter apart from  education for living in a world community, Adult  education appeared to relate exclusively to the first  aim, and work with youth to the second. Such a  separation was in line neither with Unesco's chief  concerns nor with educational practice. In Article
26 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the  one aim prescribed (that laid down in paragraph 2)  was the extension and improvement of education so  as to promote international understanding and co-  operation. In the proposed programme for 1955-56,  which had been planned with that sole aim in view,  the only distinction made was becween two forms of  education: pre-school and school education on the  one hand, and education out of school on the other.  In each of these two sections, mention was made of  long-term objectives and short-term objectives
(15) The budget estimates for general activities -  about $700, 000 - amounted to one-fifth of the total  sum provided for education, and a little over a  quarter of the estimates for special activities, The  latter included, in each of the above-mentioned  fields of action, an important project the cost of  which was estimated at about a million dollars for  the two years: develcpment and improvement of  school systems, and fundamental education,
(16) The CHAIRMAN congratulated the Secretariat  on the clear presentation of document 8C/5. in the  absence of a member of the Executive Board at the  Committee's meeting, he drew attention to a general  remark by the Board in paragraph 11 of document
8C/5 Add. 1 and suggested that a member of the  Board might be asked to enlarge on it at a later date.  He called for observations on Chapter 1 as a whole,
(17) Mr. LEE (United States of America) praised  the Secretariat for its presentation of Chapter 1. He  thought that the projects to be included or excluded  were also commendable and welcomed the emphasis  given in the document to the programme on education,
(18) He drew the attention of the Committee to the  - 646 -     fact that a meeting was at present taking place in  Paris on the question of education for international  understanding and co-operation for living in a world  community and wondered whether the Committee  would not be well advised to postpone decisions on  the question until it was seen whether any decisions  were taken on it in Paris.
(18) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) said  that the Secretariat hoped soon to receive the report  of the Committee of Experts which was then meeting  in Paris. However, that report could not reach  Montevideo before 11 November. The Committee  could therefore decide either to postpone considera-  tion of that particular question or to have a prelimi-  nary discussion, subject to a more detailed study in  the light of the experts' recommendations.
(20) The CHAIRMAN suggested that the Committee  should proceed with its examination of the question,  reserving the right to return to it if necessary.
(21) Mr, JUNANKAR (India) welcomed the introduc-  tion to the chapter given by Mr. Guiton. It expressed  clearly and categorically what he himself had triedto  say that morning. He had not intended that Unesco  should be a super Ministry of Education nor had he  meant to suggest that Member States should sit back  and expect Unesco to do their work for them, He  had meant that Unesco should act as a catalyst, that  it should give help to all Member States when re-  quired and that it should popularize the Declaration  of Human Rights by implementing it,
(22) In his opinion, Chapter 1 was sound in principle,  If it could be effectively carried out, great progress  would be made. He welcomed the scheme for assist-  ing national fundamental education centres. With  regard to the subvention to the International Associa-  tion of Universities, he understood that members  were recruited from individual universities and won-  dered whether it would not be better to grant a sub-  vention to an association which recruited members  from assimilated bodies.
(23) The CHAIRMAN asked Mr, Junankar to remind  the Committee of this point when the projects were  discussed in detail,
(24) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) thought that the terms  "in school" and "out of school" were not sufficiently  precise and asked whether the term "school-age edu-  cation" « 2 not be substituted for the term "in  school’.
(25) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  pointed out that fundamental education was also in-  tended for school-age children who had no opportuni-  ty of attending school. In that case, education was  "out of school" for school-age children. In his opin-  ion, it was very difficult to work out an entirely sa-  tisfactory terminology.
(26) The CHAIRMAN appreciated the preoccupation  of the delegate of Israel and suggested that the  Secretariat should be asked to bear in mind that  greater precision in terminology would make for  greater understanding by Member States.   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET vi-2
(27) Mr. CABOUAT (France) stated that the French  delegation was satisfied with the efforts made by  Unesco for the promotion of co-operation with non-  governmental organizations, He noted that the sub-  ventions in the Education chapter had increased from  $32,000 in 1954 to $103, 500 in 1955 and in 1956,  Mr. Cabouat thought, however, that international  and even national associations of teachers could play  a yet more important part in the implementation of  Unesco's programme. The French Government  noted with satisfaction that Unesco proposed to con-  tinue its subventions to the Institutes for Education  and for Youth in Germany, which were also receiv-  ing financial support from France. Mr. Cabouat  thought the time had come to make those institutes  effective instruments of international co-operation  by granting them the necessary assistance, The  French delegation was satisfied with the programme  submitted, in so far as fundamental education was  concerned, In regard to the International Advisory  Committee on the School Curriculum, that body's  responsibilities should be more clearly defined, and  in that connexion use might be made of the example  offered by the International Advisory Committee on  Research in the Natural Sciences programme, Mr,  Cabouat reminded the meeting that in the morning he  bad already explained his delegation's opinion with  regard to education for international understanding,  The French delegation intended to ask for larger  funds to be allocated, particularly for the promotion  of co-operation with youth movements, trade unions  and teachers.
(28) There being no further comments of à general  nature on Chapter 1 of document 8C/5, che CHAIR-  MAN proposed that the Committee proceed to a de-  talied study of the contents of the Chapter.  Project 1.11 (document 8C/5)
(29) The CHAIRMAN called upon Mr, Guiton for in-  troductory remarks.
(30) Mr. GUITON (Deputy Director, Department of  Education) mentioned that document 8C/PRG/19,  which was to be distributed very shortly, contained  a detailed account of the financial situation of Unes-  co's institutes in Germany.
(31) The CHAIRMAN called for comments on para-  graphs 15-19,
(32) Mr. BOW (Canada) remarked that from the do-  cument it appeared that there had been no clear eva-  luation of the comparative values of projects as a  whole or as between the various chapters of the pro-  gramme, After consideration of the programme  and budget as a whole, the Canadian Government  would like to see a priority allocated to each project  in each chapter, Such an allocation would be of great  assistance to the General Conference in making de-  cisions on the various projects. The indispensable  integration between departments and the chapters of  the programme made it necessary to co-ordinate the  programme carefully,
(33) The project under discussion provided an  example of a lack of evalu.:tion and of the need to    allocate a priorit/. The Canadian Government had  no clear conception of the value of each project and  was unable to make any considered decision with re-  gard to them. Criteria existed for the allocation of  subventions, one of which was that an organization  should be truly international in character, The  Canadian Government had misgivings about the truly  international character of some of the organizations  to which it was proposed to grant subventions. While  realizing the limitations of the Secretariat in the  matter of its programme and budget, he wondered  whether the criteria used were always satisfied and  whether the proposed activities were of immediate  value to Unesco in the field of international under-  standing. In each case, full consideration should be  given to whether the organization in question met the  established criteria.
(34) The CHAIRMAN said that the two questions now  raised were whether or not the Committee thought it  would be desirable to allocate priorities to the various  projects and what were the present criteria governing  the allocation of subventions. With regard to the first  question, he thought that a useful purpose might be  served if the Committee allocated priorities to the  different projects, though only experience would tell  whether a system of priorities was practicable. The  second question might be answered by asking for in-  formation from the Secretariat during the detailed  discussion of each project.
(35) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  thought that the delegate of Canada had raised two  important questions of general interest, With regard  to the desired justification, he pointed out that dele-  gates wouid find in the Director-General's Report  for 1853-54 precise information on the assistance the  organizations receiving subventions had given Unesco  in the execution of its programme, and in document
8C/ADM/20, full particulars regarding each of the  organizations - its membership, headquarters, aims,  amount of the subventions granted and use made of  those subventions. The latter document was intended  mainly to assist the discussion of item 9,6, 2 of the  agenda: quadrennial review by the Executive Board  of the employment of subventions (1950-53). The  Secretariat could also supply delegates with additional  information on any particular organization, The  Joint Committee of International Teachers! Federa-  tions, which had just been mentioned, was a confede-  ration of several international organizations with a  total of four million members from all parts of the  world,
136) In regard to the question of priorities, the  Assistant Director-General thought it impossible to  take a decision during the first examination of the  projects. The Committee could reject projects which  it considered unsatisfactory, but it could not assess  the relative value of each project until it had studied  the whole programme,
(37) The CHAIRMAN thought that the suggestion of  the Assistant Director-General was wise and pro-  vided the only practicable solution. At the end  of its detailed discussion, the Committee should  recommend projects for higher or less high  priority.  - 647 -   vI-2 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET
(38) Mr. BOW (Canada) said that, as the Commit-  tee would be unable to allocate priority by evaluation,  the suggestion of the Assistant Director-General  would meet his point. The Canadian Government felt  that a grading of priorities should be a standard oper-  ation,
(39) The introduction to document 8C/ADM/20 pro-  vided an example of the point he had made with re-  gard to subventions and criteria. It showed that the  criteria were very wide and ambiguous and that it  would be very difficult to decide the value an? nature  of an organization. The wording of the document  was ambiguous and vague, He also wondered if at-  tention was being paid to whether certain non-govern-  mental organizations would gradually become self-  supporting,
(40) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) was of the opinion  that the term "international" should not be used.  Unesco might be interested in putting forward ideas  in a certain part of the world and might want to as-  sist an organization to put forward those ideas al-  though that organization was not of an international  nature, That had happened in the case of the Unesco  institutes in Germany.
(41) The CHAIRMAN asked the Assistant Director-  General to remind the Committee of the general  policy on criteria.
(42) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) said  that the Administrative Commission had to consider,  under item 9, 6. 2, of the agenda, the employment of  subventions during the past four years, and also,  under item 9,6, 3, the directives concerning rela-  tions with international non-governmental organiza-  tions, That question had already been given most  careful consideration at two sessions of the Execu-  tive Board. He thought that the members of the  Committee would wish to study those documents and  take them into account during their discussions.  With regard to the criteria governing the allocation  of subventions, the Assistant Director-General said  that, for the first time, the membership of the or-  ganizations receiving subventions was indicated in  the proposed programme and budget. It was there-  fore possible to ascertain their international charac-  ter. The second criterion concerned the services  rendered to Unesco, either directly, or because the  activities of the organization in question made it un-  necessary for Unesco to take action in a particular  field, With regard to the incomes of the organiza-  tions, he felt sure that many private associations of  intellectuals giving valuable assistance to Unesco  would never be entirely self-supporting. Any re-  duction in the subventions they received from Unesco  would be liable to destroy their efficiency and Unes-  co would, in the long run, have nothing to gain from  taking such a decision. Admittedly, some organi-  zations were better endowed, but it has to be re-  membered that, apart from any consideration of  financial needs, the Constitution expressly stated  that Unesco should encourage co-operation among  the nations in all branches of intellectual activity,  The Assistant Director-General thought that the Se-  cretariat had scrupulously applied the criteria in  force and that it was for the Administrative Commis-  - 648 -     sion and not for the Committee to consider whether  they should be altered. Lastly, he said that the Se-  cretariat had reached the conclusion that, for a sub-  vention to be effective, it should amount to at least  $2,000; any smaller sum was liable to have no more  than a token value,
(43) The CHAIRMAN said that the remarks of the  Assistant Director-General were very useful and that,  as it would be impossible for the Committee to go  through document 8C/ADM/20, he suggested that  discussion should be resumed.
(44) Mr. SECCO ELLAURI (Uruguay) said that, in  connexion with the allocation of subventions, a dis-  tinction had to be made between the criterion adopted  for the award of subventions and the application of  that criterion, The criterion might be satisfactory  but its application unsatisfactory. As had been ex-  plained by the Assistant Director-General, there was  a criterion according to which subventions could be  granted to organizations that had a spiritual kinship  with Unesco and were engaged in activities in keeping  with its universal character. Organizations covering  only 1 egional or national fielc ; of interest to Unesco  were also included in that criterion and deserved to  be granted subventions.
(45) There was yet another criterion, enabling sub-  ventions to be granted to institutions through which  Unesco put its programme into effect at less expense  than it would do by carrying out the activities itself,  The aim here was to lighten Unesco's task and to  organize its work more efficiently and economically.
(46) A danger that might arise out of the Canadian  delegate's proposal was that subventions might be  granted and later withdrawn. Subventions should be  allocated for a sufficient length of time if they were  to yield useful results for Unesco. It was unthinkable  that any State should withdraw subventions from the  concessionnaire of any service so long as that service  was maintained.
(47) Another matter for consideration was the appli-  cation of the criterion to existing situations. It was  the Committee's responsibility to exercise financial  supervision and, with the utmost vigilance, to ensure  that the sums granted were used in accordance with  the criterion governing each particular case,
(48) Miss LAISE (United States of America) shared  the opinion of the Canadian delegate on the question  of the method used to determine projects for the  programme and suggested that the Committee should  call the attention of the Director-General to their  dissatisfaction on this point and express the wish that  he should institute a work programme which would  eliminate projects shown by the value of their past  activities to be unproductive, and which would advise  governments on the usefulness of projects, The  United Nations had instituted a committee to under-  take such a task and on its basis the Secretary-  General had made constructive proposals to the Eco-  nomic and Social Council for eliminating activities  and rationalizing work in the economic and social  fields, That initiative had been welcomed by govern-  ments, It should be possible for Unesco to make a  similar self-evaluation. She concluded by asking  whether it was to be assumed that all the organizations   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VI-2  to which it was proposed to give subventions were  above mediocrity level.
(49) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) after  replying in the affirmative to Miss Laise's last  question, said that he could not help being a little  alarmed by the remarks of the United States dele-  gate, The Economic and Social Council had indeed  taken action to lighten work connected with reports  and documentary studies, but it had taken no deci-  sions concerning subventions. Furthermore, as the  delegate of France had pointed out at the moming  meeting, Unesco was bound, under its Constitution,  to encourage co-operation among the nations in all  branches of intellectual activity. The award of sub-  ventions had proved one of the least costly ways of  taking action in that respect. The Economic and  Social Council had, of course, granted priority to  the development of the underdeveloped countries,  The General Conference of Unesco, at its last ses-  sion, had also recognized that priority, and the  Secretariat had endeavoured to maintain it in t--  proposed programme. But the speaker quest ined  whether there was any ground for supposing that  greater assistance would be given to the underdeve-  loped countries by abolishing or reducing subventions  to intermational organizations, On the cofitrary, he  thought that one of the best services that could be  rendered to the underdeveloped countries was to  make use of subventions - many of them small -  for the purpose of bringing together intellectuals of  these countries, who were only too often working in  isolation and encouraging them to join the large ex-  isting organizations. It might even be possible to  make more systematic and widespread use of sub-  ventions to help intellectuals in the underdeveloped  countries to attend international congresses of spe-  clalists. Thus, any proposal to reduce subventions  would run counter to Unesco's aims. As the whole  question of subventions was to be considered by the  Administrative Commission, it seemed a little rash  for the Committee to put forward any recommenda-  tions at that stage,
(50) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that, although it  might not be inappropriate for the Committee to  make recommendations to the Administrative Com-  mission on the question of subventions, it would be  better to discuss such recommendations after a  detailed study of the programme,
(51) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) proposed that the dis-  cussion should be postponed in order that members  of the Committee might study document 8C/ADM/ 20.  He proposed that the Committee should proceed to  discuss the programme item by item.
(52) Miss LAISE (United States of America) said  that she was willing to postpone discussion if the  Committee would agree to come back to this point  later,  Paragraphs 20-22 - Chapter 1 of document 8C/5
(53) No comments.    Paragraphs 23-25 - Chapter 1 of document 8C/5
(54) Miss LAISE (United States of America) suggested  that, to speed up work, the Committee should consider  the section as a whole up to and including paragraph
(55) In reply to a question from Mr. AVIDOR (Israel),  Mr. GUITON (Deputy Director, Department of Educa-  tion) explained that the International Federation of  Organizations for School Correspondence and Ex-  changes was carrying out work which would devolve  upon Unesco if the Federation did not exist, The  sum of $3, 000 allocated to it did not reflect the value  of the services rendered, but indicated the importance  Unesco attached to them.
(56) The CHAIRMAN wondered whether the payment  involved here was not rather by way of contract.
(57) Mr. GUITON (Deputy Director, Department of  Education) said that it was sometimes difficult to dis-  tinguish between a special service requested of an  organization that was engaged in many other activi-  ties and services rendered by an organization that  existed for a single purpose, In the case under con-  sideration, a subvention seemed to be involved.
(58) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Programme  and Budget) pointed out that, at its seventh session,  the General Conference had asked the Director-  General to keep funds for subventions and contracts  separate, Subventinns were given to non-govern-  mental organizations to carry out programmes of  their own which were of interest to Unesco, whereas  contracts were placed with organizations to do spe-  cific work for and on behalf of Unesco.
(59) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) enquired whether the sub-  vention under discussion fell under the heading of  contracts.
(60) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) ex-  plained that the subvention contributed towards the  general expenses of the Federation's work. IFOSCE  was an organization performing useful work in a field  of interest to Unesco.
(61) Mr, SOMMERFELT (Norway), referring to  paragraphs 45-47 of Chapter 1 of document 8C/5,  concerning the International Association of Univer-  sities, asked whether the subvention of 14, 000 dollars  was the amount requested by the Associa‘ion and  whether the Association was satisfied with the amount.
(62) Mr, GUITON (Deputy Director, Department of  Education) thought that the organization in question  was satisfied,
(63) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) said  that organizations usually asked for more than they  finally received. In the case under consideration,  the amount proposed seemed to be a reasonable com-  promise between the amount requested and Unesco's  resources,
(64) Speaking as delegate of Australia, the CHAIRMAN  - 649 -   VI-2 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  wished to know why the Secretariat proposed the  same subventions for each of the years 1955 and
1956, whilst paragraph 47 stated that the General  Conference of the Association would involve addi-  tional expenditure.
(65) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) ex-  plained that the conference would be held in 1855,  but its proceedings would not be published until 1956,  If necessary, a transfer would be made from one  year to the next, in accordance with the financial  regulations in force,
(66) Miss LAISE (United States of America) con-  sidered that throughout the section no new subven-  tions were justified, and moved that, with the ex-  ception of the subvention for the Unesco institutes  in Germany, proposals for the granting of new sub-  ventions should be suppressed,
(67) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) said  that Miss Laise's suggestion amounted to a request  to maintain the status quo within each Department in  the matter of subventions. The different Depart-  ments had not, however, all developed their sub-  ventions policy at the same pace, Some, like the  Natural Sciences Department, had resorted exten-  sively to that method from the outset, The Depart-  ment of Education, on the contrary, had lagged be-  hind in that respect. The Director-General had  thought it advisable gradually to alter the situation,  as it would be regrettable to have fewer contacts  with teachers than with scientists, The Secretariat  proposed accordingly to allocate to the Joint Com-  mittee of International Teachers' Federations an  annual subvention of $2, 000, equal to that granted  to the World Confederation of Organizations of the  Teaching Profession,
(68) Miss LAISE (United States of America) re-  called that she had said no new subventions except  in the case of the Unesco institutes in Germany. If  the principle of selection was to be followed, it would  have to take into consideration the overall need.  Available information did not justify taking on new  subventions. The question was not one of justice  but of obtaining the best results.
(68) The CHAIRMAN said that the United States pro-  posal was to suppress the subventions proposed in  paragraphs 34, 37, 40 and 54 of Chapter 1 of docu-  ment 8C/5,
(70) Mr, CABOUAT (France) noted that the United  States delegation's proposal was that no new sub-  ventions should be granted to organizations, even  though they were serving the main purposes of  Unesco. In the case under consideration, there  were two organizations which, although they were  pursuing similar aims, would be given different  treatment, if Miss Laise's proposal were adopted.
(71) Miss LAISE (United States of America) said  that it was really a matter of criteria. No new sub-  ventions should be allocated unless there was ade-  quate justification for them. It appeared that there  was no real justification in the two cases mentioned,    either because they did not offer the best method of  carrying out the work or because their work dupli-  cated or overlapped that of other organizations al-  ready receiving subventions,
(72) Mr. CABOUAT (France) supposed that the  Secretariat had acted on information justifying the  new subventions proposed.
(73) Mr. GUITON (Deputy Director, Department of  Education) pointed out the difficulty of ascertaining  which were the really specialized organizations in  the field of education. There were, of course, large  numbers of groups having some concern with educa-  tion. The Secretariat had considered it essential to  keep in close touch with teachers and particularly  with those responsible for adult education. It had  thought it necessary to recognize the services ren-  dered to Unesco by the International Federation of  Children's Communities, whose work lay in a field  in which Unesco had, at the outset, taken a special  interest. Lastly, the International Association of  Vocational Guidance was in a position to give valuable  assistance in connexion with development of the under-  developed countries,
(74) Mr. BOW (Canada) seconded the United States  motion, He had found the discussion very interesting  as it had illustrated the vagueness with which sub-  ventions were allocated. It was for this reason that  he supported the motion.
(75) Mr. CABOUAT (France) presumed that the pro-  gramme was the outcome of detajled study; it had  already been twice considered by the Executive Board,  He thought it premature to take an immediate decision  on Miss Laise's proposal. He himself would vote  against that proposal, and he regretted that a vote  should be taken in such circumstances,
(76) The CHAIRMAN said that the decision lay with  the Committee, If the United States delegate did not  withdraw her motion, he would put to the vote that  the Committee should recommend in its report that  the proposals for subventions contained in paragraphs
34, 37, 40 and 54 should be suppressed.
(77) Miss LAISE (United States of America) in reply  to the French delegate, said that she was prepared  to postpone bringing her motion to the vote until later.
(78) Mr. CABOUAT (France) enquired whether the  adoption of Miss Laise's proposal should be inter-  preted as a decision of principle, applicable to all  chapters of the programme. No specific criticism  had actually been levelled against any particular  organization,
(78) The CHAIRMAN explained that the motion put  forward by the United States delegate referred only to  the four subventions contained in paragraphs 34, 37,
40 and 54 of Chapter 1 of document 8C/5.
(80) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) reminded the Committee  that the whole question of subventions was to be dis-  cussed by another body.  - 650 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON
(81) The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the United States  motion, which was rejected by 2 votes in favour, 6  against and 1 abstention,  {82) Mr, SECCO ELLAURI (Uruguay) thought that  proposals such as that put forward by the United  States representative should be accompanied by  figures showing the cost involved in the previous  and present budgets and the financial repercussions  of acceptance or rejection of the proposal. All such  suggestions should be assessed in that way, so that  their financial importance could be more clearly  realized,    PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VI-3
(83) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) re-  minded the Committee that a general table of proposed  subventions was contained in Annex ! of the Proposed  Programme and Budget,
(84) He agreed with Mr. Secco Ellauri that any new  proposal should be accompanied by exact figures  showing its budgetary repercussions.  The meeting rose at 6,30 p.m.  THIRD MEETING
2 November 1954 at 10 a.m.  Chairman : Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Australia)  ITEM 1.2 OF THE AGENDA: PRELIMINARY CONSIDERATION  OF TRE DRAFT PROGRAMME AND BUDGET FOR 1933-36,  BEFORE THE OPENING OF THE SESSION (continued)
(1) The CHAIRMAN welcomed the delegates of Indo-  nesia and the United Kingdom, and asked Mr. Maheu  to reply to some of the questions put by members of  the Committee the previous afternoon.
(2) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) said  that he would not attempt to reply forthwith to the  points raised the day before by various delegations  concerning the proposed programme and budget. He  would prefer to give explanations of concrete cases  when they arose during consideration of the docu-  ment, so as to make it clear, for instance, that the  difference between the present and higher budget  levels was not based on any idea of priorities and to  show how the Director-General had intended Sections  I and II to be closely linked and carefully balanced.  Of the five specific points raised by the United  States delegation, the first four were answered in  a document then being distributed. Information on  the fifth had been requested in Paris.
(3) He also drew attention to document 8C/PRG/21,  containing the observations of non-governmental  organizations having consultative status with Unesco  on the proposed programme for 1855-56, It was the  first time that those organizations had been so close-  ly associated by the Director-General in the pre-  paration of the programme; their representatives  had been convened to two meetings, one at an early  stage in the drafting of the programme, and the  other in September last, when the programme had  reached its final stage; the document before the  Conference was the report of the latter meeting.
(4) In conclusion, the Assistant Director-General  proposed, as an experiment, discussing fundamental  education projects irres-ective of the programme    chapter in which they were included (Education,  Social Sciences, Cultural Activities, Mass Commu-  nication, Exchange of Persons). That method would  bring out the close interdepeadence of the programme  chapters. Of course, after discussing the fundamen-  tal education projects as a whole, each would be  taken up in its appropriate chapter, so as not to in-  terfere with the inner cohesion of each of the pro-  gramme chapters. The Assistant Director-General  emph'sized that it would be an experiment, an ex-  ceptirasl measure, but one worth trying out,
(5) With reference to document 8C/PRG/21, con-  taining the observations of non-governmental organ-  izations on the draft programme, the CHAIR MAN  asked the Secretary to draw the Committee's utten-  tion to points relating specifically to subjects under  discussion, as they arose, and also to inform the  meeting of any comments made cn them by the Exe-  cutive Board, He fully supported the proposal by the  Assistant Director-General that the projects on Fun-  damental Education shov'd be followed through the  various chapters of the budget document and request-  ed the Secretariat to prepare a document showing the  points which would have to be taken up.
(6) The Chairman opened the discussion of Project
1.12: Clearing House and Advisory Services, He  asked the Committee whether it would address its  remarks to the project as a whole, or whether it  would prefer to split it up into its three sections:  the introduction and section A; section B; section C.
(7) Mr. BOW (Canada) asked for a fuller explana-  tion of the proposed expenditure shown under higher  level estimates in paragraph 63.
(8) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Programme  and Budget) explained that this expenditure referred  to staff costs. It was not possible to distinguish  - 651 -