(98) Subject to the Director-General's reservation,  the proposed new text of Regulation 4.5 was approved
(100) The adoption of the proposed amendment to  Regulation 4.5,1 was moved and seconded by several  delegations.
(101) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) pointed out that the  present wording of Regulation 4.5.1 as given in  document 8C/ADM/11 was not in accordance with the  French text adopted by the General Conference and  given on page 122 of the Resolutions (French) of the
1952 session of the Conference, which provided for  the renewal of certain contracts "pour des périodes  déterminées d'un an au moins et de cing ans au plus}  the text given in document 8C/ADM/11 read "not less  than one year up to a maximum period of service of  five years”. There was an appreciable difference  between the two, as the text adopted by the Confer-  ence in 1952 allowed of several five-year contracts  in succession, whereas the text submitted to the  Commission might be interpreted as meaning that all  higher officials would have to go after five years'  service if they had not been granted indeterminate  contracts,    COMMISSION
(102) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained that the  original text, adopted by the Conference in 1952, had  been written in English; the error was merely ore of  French translation. He was certain that the text in  document 8C/ADM/11 was correct and reflected the  intention of the Conference at its 1952 session,
(103) Mr.JUVIGNY(France)asked that note should be  takenof the abstentionof the French delegation; he asked  whether the text meant that the Director-General could  not renew a contract that implied the retention of an  official in his post for more than five years.
(104) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained that, taking
1 January 1952 as a starting-point, a person in con-  tinuous service could not serve the Organization  beyond 1 January 1957 without having an inieterminate  contract; on all successive dates after 1 January 1952  the same principle would apply.
(105) The amendment to Regulation 4.5.1 proposed  by the Director-General was adopted by 43 votes to 0,  with 3 abstentions.  The meeting rose at 7.10 p.m.  NINETEENTH MEETING
30 November 1954 at 10 a.m.  Chairman : Mr. BEEBY (New Zealand)  ITEM 9.5.1 OF REVISED AGENDA: PERSONNEL  RECRUITHENT STANDARDS AND METHODS  (document 8C/ADM/11) (continued)
(1) The Commission turned to the examination of  paragraphs 19 and 24,
(2) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that it was highly  desirable for the General Conference to give him  definite guidance as regarded the proportion of fixed-  term and indeterminate appointments within Unesco.
(3) The principles set forth in paragraph 19 had been  endorsed two years befoi € by the Administrative  Committee on Co-ordination,
(4) Some time would necessarily elapse before the  percentages indicated in that paragraph were achieved  That was why he had proposed that the date by which  those figures should be attained should be 1958. He  would, of course, report on progress made to the  ninth session.
(5) All he was doing in that paragraph was to ask the  Conference to set target percentages and a target  date by which they should be attained, leaving him  free to decide, with the best interests of the  Organization in mind, how to set about attaining them
(6) The adoption of the principle set forthin paragraph
24 would considerably strengthen his hand in dealing  with applications for employment.
(7) Mr. BROWNELL (United States of America)  sympathized with the Director-General. In any or-  ganization it was difficult to decide what the propor-  tion of fixed-term and indeterminate appointments  should be. But he was not sure that the Commission  would be assisting the Director-General by adopting  a resolution on the lines suggested. To lay down  fixed percentages for such posts might not be in the  best interests of Unesco.
(8) Accordingly he would propose the following  motion:  "The Commission recommends that the General  Conference authorize the Director-General to con-  tinue his efforts to build up a permanent cadre of  Unesco officials in the interests of continuity and  stability, and request him to report to the next  session on the progress made”,
(9) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL, answering a question  by Mr, HUZAYIN (Egypt), said that about 40% of  staff in the Professional categories were at that  moment in possession of permanent contracts,  - 608 -   ADMINISTRATIVE
(10) Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS (United Kingdom) had  been reassured by the wording of paragraph 19, in  which it was stated that the Director -General's aim  would be to achieve the figures in question, In such  matters it was always dangerous to be too explicit in  setting target figures. He supported the United  States motion,
(11) The United States motion was put to the vote and  adopted by 32 votes to 0, with 8 abstentions,
(13) Mr. FRAGA IRIBARNE (Spain), seconded by Mr.  Huzayin (Egypt) and Mr. de Los Santos (Philippines),  moved that the Commission recommend the General '  Conference to instruct the Director-General in  accordance with paragraph 24.
(13) Mr. SHARIF (Pakistan) said that, during the  discussions of the day before, the point had been made  that the Director-General had, under the Staff Regu-  lations, full power to renew or not to renew a contract  with an eye to obtaining the highest possible standards  of efficiency and integrity, coupled with an equitable  geographical distribution of posts. That had also  been the view of the Legal Adviser.
(14) In view of the new paragraph 4.3.1, did the  Director-General feel that there was a need for any  more specific authorization, such as would be given  under paragraph 4,6?
(15) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that in yara-  graph 24 he was not asking for further powers. All  he was requesting was that the Conference should  give him instructions which he could invoke when  dealing with applicants from over-represented  countries.
(16) Admittedly it was difficult to define what an  "over-represented' country was. Generally speak-  ing, he did not absolutely require the instructions  asked for, although they would be of assistance tohim
(17) Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS (United Kingdom) was  inclined to trust the Director-General in implement-  ing the Staff Regulations. He was deeply suspicious  of hard-and-fast instructions and definite percentages  and thence considered paragraph 24 superfluous.
(18) Mr. SUNDARAM (India) said that the day before,  the Director-General had expressed his willingness to  give his reasons for mot renewing a contract.
(19) If the Director-General terminated, or refused  to renew, a contract, and gave as one of his reasons  that the individual goncerned came from an over-  represented country, would any appeal against that  decision be sustained by the Appeals Board?  {20) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that in some  cases he might indeed give that as one of his reasons,  but, unless the principle of paragraph 24 were  adopted, he would not give as his reason that any  particular Member State was over-represented, He  felt that the Appeals Board could hardly fail to uphold  his decision if that decision were honestly arrived at  and were in accordance with the facts.
(21) Mr. JUVIGNY (France) reminded the Commis-  sion that he had already informed them the previous    - 609 -  COMMISSION v-19  day of the French delegation's attitude towards the  principle of geographical distribution. He would  therefore merely express his reactions to the actual  terms of paragraph 24,
(22) First of all, he called the Commission's atten-  tion to the unsuitable use of the word "represented"  in the part of the sentence which read "of nationals  from Member States which are over-represented in  the Secretariat". He pointed out that the idea of  representation” was a very precise one, and to  consider the Secretariat officials as "representative"  of Member States was contrary to the fundamental  principle of international organizations,
(23) The French delegation was equally unable to  accept the words "unless he judges that to do so is  essential to the efficient administration of the  Organization", It felt very strongly that the  efficient administration of the Organization should  always, and in all circumstances, be one of the  major aims of the Director-General.
(24) The CHAIRMAN observed that the Director-  General would not insist on his proposal.
(25) Mr. HUZAYIN (Egypt) said all would agree that  the primary consideration was to obtain staff of the  highest possible efficiency and integrity. The point  of the Director -General's proposal in paragraph 24  was as follows: if there were two candidates for a  particular post, one of them from an over-  represented, the other from an under-represented.  country, then, all else being equal, the latter candi-  date would be chosen. That war surely very  reasonable,
(26) Tine Commission decided, by 20 votes to 3, with
13 abstentions, to recommend the General Confer -  ence to instruct the Director-General in accordance  with paragraph 24 and passed on to paragraph 4.5.2.
(27) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that there were  occasions when he wished to prolong an appointment  beyond the normal term without making a temporary  appointment, pending the recruitment of a successor,
(28) For example, the contract of the Director of  the Mass Communication Department expired on 31  December. He (the Director-General) might wish  to ask the official in question to stay on until a  successor was found. The alternative was to  abolish the post and to create a temporary appoint-  ment for a fixed period. The change requested was  a matter of convenience for the Secretariat.
(29) Mr, FRAGA IRIBARNE (Spain), seconded by  Mr, POHL (Union of South Africa), moved adoption  of paragraph 4.5. 2 as proposed by the Director -  General.
(30) The Spanish motion was put to the vote and  unanimously adopted.
(31) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL then withdrew his  proposal in connexion with paragraph 4.6,
(32) Mr. ERIKSSON (Rapporteur) said that, in  paragraph A,1, document 8C/ADM/11 quoted a  resolution by the seventh session, calling on the   v-19 ADMINISTRATIVE  Director-General to aim at a better geographical dis-  tribution of staff and at added efficiency. Had the  Director-General anything to say on the action taken  to achieve added efficiency?
(33) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that at the  seventh session he had been Chairman of the Adminis-  trative Commission, which had framed the resolution.  The feeling there had been that equitable geographical  distribution automatically entailed increased efficiency  as far as Unesco was concerned. That was his view,  and hence there was no separate report on the steps  taken to attain added efficiency.
(34) Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) pointed out that the  Lebanese delegation, while not opposed to the modi-  fications which had just been approved, doubted if in  fact they altered the present situation to any great  extent, However, it felt quite sure that it would be  to the advantage of all to give effect to the idea set  out in paragraph 28 (a) in the following terms:  "The Director-General believes that it will be in  the long-term interests of the Organization to recruit  for junior professional posts young persons with good  academic qualifications with a view to giving them  within the Secretariat the training in languages and in  civil service methods which they lack, He believes  that this should be done within the framework of the  approved programme and not by the creation of  special training posts”.
(35) Mr. Ammoun suggested that the method proposed  might even be extended to include the General Service  categories,
(36) He also protested strongly against certain un-  justified statements, such as that which appeared in  the first sentence of paragraph 28 (a): "It is difficult  to find candidates from Member States which are not  English- or French-speaking who combine profes-  sional qualifications with a good knowledge of one of  these languages, which is clearly necessary for  efficient service to the Organization", It seemed to  him that the representatives of English- or French-  speaking Member States should be the first to contest  that statement, vhich showed that it was not realized  how widely spread those two languages were, For  his part he would be glad if the Rapporteur would  kindly mention that in his report.
(37) The CHAIRMAN said that the Commission had  now finished its consideration of document 8C/ADM/11,  ITEM 9.3 OF REVISED AGENDA: LEGAL QUESTIONS  (document 8C/ JUR/3) (continued)
(38) Mr, BAUGNIET (Rapporteur of the Legal Com-  mittee) presented document 8C/JUR/3, which set  forth the recommendations of the Legal Committee on  the various questions referred to it by the Adminis-  trative Commission. He wished, first, to draw the  Commission's attention to the changes recommended  by the Committee in respect of Articles V.8 and VI. 3  of the Constitution (page 1).
(38) The proposed new wording of Article V, para-  graph 8, was approved unanimously.  - 610 -     COMMISSION
(40) The proposed new wording of Article VI,  paragraph 3, was approved unanimously.
(41) Mr. BAUGNIET (Rapporteur) next submitted  the draft resolution given in paragraph 4 (c) (pages
1 and 2).
(42) Replying to a question from the delegate of the  Union of South Africa, he explained that the point of  the words "if necessary" in paragraph (2) of the  draft resolution was to avoid tying the Director-  General down, even if the General Conference met  in the early months of the year, to preparing a report  which could only cover a very short period and wculd  in all probability be of little interest,
(43) Mr. POHL (Union of South Africa) thought too  much was being asked of the Director-General's cis-  cretion. The Commission should give some  indication of how often a report was required.
(44) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that his inten-  tion was to take the advice of the Executive Board,  He was prepared to accept an amendment whereby  the words "if necessary" would read: "if considered  necessary by the Executive Board".
(45) Mr. JUVIGNY (France) expressed willingness  to approve the draft resolution in question with what-  ever drafting change might be made to meet the  wishes of the South African delegate.
(46) Mr. SALIM (Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan)  said that distant countries often received, almost  simultaneously, reports for two consecutive periods,  One report only, for the whole period, should be  distributed to Member States. Perhaps the  Director-General might report to the Executive  Board every six months,
(47) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that to report  every six months would lay a great burden on the  Secretariat. He realized that sometimes reports  for consecutive periods were received at almost the  same time, but would try to arrange :hings so that  Member States would receive a repo:'t for any year  within the first three months of tne following one,
(48) In view of the foregoing discussion, Mr.  BAUGNIET (Rapporteur) proposed rewording para-  graph 2 of the draft resolution as follows:  ". ..... in those years during which the General  Conference shall meet in ordinary session, and 1f  the Exr.cutive Board deems it necessary, an interim  report covering the activities of the Organization  from the end of the preceding year".
(49) This amendment was adopted.
(50) The draft resolution thus amended was approved.
(51) Mr. BAUGNIET (Rapporteur) went on to inform  the Commission of the Legal Committee's proposals  on item 8, 3. 3 (Draft amendment to the Constitution,  and other provisions relating to the withdrawal of  Member States) (paragraphs 5 and 6, page 2).
(52) Proposed by Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS (United  Kingdom) and seconded by Mr AFTALION (Ar gertina),   ADMINISTRATIVE  the text recommended by the Committee as paragraph
8 of Article 1I of the Constitution was unanimously  approved.
(53) Mr. BAUGNIET (Rapporteur) then proceeded to  the Legal Committee's recommendations in respect of  {tem 9, 3.4 (Proposed amendments to the Rules of  Procedure of the General Conference). Some of those  amendments were solely designed to bring the Rules  into line with the new situation which had arisenas a  result of the admission of "Associate Members" to  the Organization.  {34) Mr, DE HOOG (Netherlands) drew attention to  flule 19, paragraphs 1 and 2, pointing out that the  English text should be corrected to read "or Asso-  ciate Member" instead of "and Associate Member".
(55) Subject to taat correction, the amendments pro-  posed by the Legal Committee in respect of Rules 6  to 24 of the Rules of Procedure (document 8C/JUR/3,  pages 3 and 4) were approved,
(56) Mr. BAUGNIET (Rapporteur) then presented  Rules 25, 26 and 28, which referred to the  organization of the Conference,
(57) Speaking in connexion with the proposed reword-  ing of Rule 25, paragraph 2, and apart from the  general reservation of approval by the General Con-  ference in plenary session, Mr. POMPEI (Italy)  wished to make a special reservation concerning the  inclusion of the Advisory Committee on Programme  and Budget in the list of Committees of the General  Conference. He thought that the work of the present  session had not yet gone far enough to warrant an  attempt to determine whether or not that Committee  should be retained at future sessions.
(58) The CHAIRMAN said that a decision taken by  the Commission at that stage would not bind the  Conference, if the Conference saw fit to make any  changes later,
(59) The Chairman proposed that Rule 25 should  read "The Commissions or subsidiary bodies", instead  of "The Commissions and subsidiary bodies".
(60) Subject to that altersiion, the new wording of  Rules 25 and 26 was approved,
(61) The proposed change in Rule 28 was also  approved.
(623 Referring to Rule 30, Mr. BAUGNIET (Rap-  porteur) said the Legal Committee had decided that  the draft resolution submitted by the delegation of  Chile for the amendment of Rule 30, paragraph 1  (document 8C/DR/65) was not within the Committee's  jurisdiction and should first be studied by the  Administrative Commission, The only proposals the  Legal Committee wished to make in respect of Rule
30 were those given on page 4 of document 8C/JUR/3.
(83) Mr. VILLALON GALDAMES (Chile) said that  his delegation was withdrawing the preamble it had  included in its draft amendment to paragraph 1 of  Rule 30 (document 8C/DR/65), but wished to maintain  - 611 -     ~fOMMIBSION v-19  the proposed modification in substance: it accord-  ingly suggested that the phrase "On information  received from the Executive Board" be deleted, since,  although that expression was quite clear in theory, it  had in practice given rise to false interpretation and  difficult situations.
(64) Mr. WEST (United Kingdom) was gratified to  observe that the delegate of Chile was in agreement  with the United Kingdom delegation in holding that  Rule 30, paragraph 1, with its existing wording, did  not commit the Nominations Committee to accepting  only the list submitted by the Executive Board
(65) The delegate of Chile had apparently not been  satisfied that all delegations would accept that  interpretation,
(66) His own impression of what had gone on in the  Nominations Committee was that nobody had in fact  maintained that the Committee had no option but to  accept the list submitted by the Board. Certainly  his delegation, for one, had said that not to accept  the Board's list might make the task of the Commit-  tee more complicated, since the way would be thrown  open for the submission of many different lists. His  delegation had pointed out that the Executive Board  was under an obligation to give most careful thought  beforehand to the proper distribution of Conference  offices, and that, though it might be unwise, it  would certainly not be wrong, to depart from the  Board's recommendations,
(67) He assumed that the Chilean amendment to  paragraph 1 tended to eliminate the part played by  the Executive Board. Thence he was not sure he  could agree that the deletion of the first words of  the paragraph was a drafting amendment only. A  serious issue was being raised.
(68) Mr. NOGUEIRA (Uruguay) proposed the com-  promise wording "Without obligation to follow the  report, if any, of the Executive Board....", which  was agreed to by the delegation of Chile.
(69) There followed some discussion on the Chilean  proposal between the delegates of Argentina, Chile,  the United Kingdom, Uruguay and the Union of South  Africa, and after a short interval the CHAIRMAN  submitted the following text (agreed upon py the  delegations concerned) for approval by the  Commission:  "The Nominations Committee, after receiving the  report from the Executive Board, and without any  obligation to accept its recommendations, shall  determine and submit to the General Conference the  list of nominations for the posts of President and of  the ten Vice-Presidents of the General Conference.
(70) This resolution was put to the vote and adopted  by 33 votes to 0, with 1 abstention.
(71) The recommendation by the Legal Committee  tor the insertion of another sentence at the end of  paragraph 1 (Rule 30) was adopted unanimously.
(72) The recommendation by the Legal Committee  for a new paragraph 4 to be added to ilule 30 was  adopted unanimously.   Vv-19 ADMINISTRATIVE
(79) The CHAIRMAN then submitted the proposed new  wording of Rule 40 (Acting President) (document
8C/JUR/3, page 5).
(74) Mr. SOLDATOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) stated that his delegation saw no need to  change the existing wording of Rule 40, and would  therefore vote against the proposed alteration.
(75) Mr. BROWNELL (United States of America) said  that the proposal was based on experience acquired at  past sessions and he supported it. Paragraph 1 of  Rule 40 provided for short absences, but there should  be some system to cope with the event of accident or  illness,
(76) Mr, SOLDATOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) saw no reason why the President needed  in his absence to be replaced by one and the same  Vice-President for the whole time. He would have  thought that the various Vice-Presidents could take  turns to serve as Acting President,
(77) Mr. WIECHECKI (Poland). said that no provision  had been made for the case of the President of the  General Conference being away for more than one  meeting, but less than two days.
(78) The CHAIR MAN thought that in that case the  provisions of paragraph 1 would apply. In other  words, the President would be replaced by the  Vice-Presidents in turn.
(79) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) concurred.
(80) The Legal Committee's proposals in respect of  Rule 40 were put to the vote and carried by 20 votes to
6, with 4 abstentions.
(81) The proposed amendments to Rules 47, 59, 63,
69, 73, 74, 75 and 75 were then approved one after  the other,
(82) Mr. BAUGNIET (Rapporteur) then proceeded to  Rule 92, which set out the Legal Committee's recom-  mendation that a clause be inserted to deal with  Associate Members.
(83) Mr. FRAGA IRIBARNE (Spain) thought that the  expression "the Member State or other authority  having responsibility" in the revised text of Rule 92  should be made clearer so as to cover the case of  States not Members of Unesco applying for member -  ship on behalf of territories or groups cf territories  for which they were responsible.
(84) In reply to the Spanish delegate, Mr. BAUGNIET  (Rapporteur) said that the proposed wording took all  such possibilities into account, For his own part he  - 612 -     COMMISSION  saw no objection to substituting the single word  "State", for the words "Member State' in paragraph2,
(85) Mr. FRAGA IRIBARNE (Spain) said that what  he want-d to know was whether a State which was not  a Member of Unesco could apply for membership on  behalf of a territory or a group of territories under  its jurisdiction,
(86) Mr, SABA (Legal Adviser) said that the revised  text merely repeated the words used in Article II of  the Constitution. It was for the Commission to  decide whether it now wished to discuss how that  Article should be interpreted,
(87) Mr. FRAGA IRIBARNE (Spain) explained that  he did not wish to present a formal motion, but only  to raise the point for the tine when the Legal  Committee should be ready to examine it.
(88) Mr. WIECHECKI (Poland) pointed out that the  words "or other authority having responsibility for  their international relations" could be applied to  non-Member States just as well as to Member States
(89) Mr. WEST (United Kingdom) said that the for-  mula used had a definite meaning in other interna-  tional organizations. It was designed to provide for  cases in which the United Nations might accept  responsibility for a trust territory.
(90) The Legal Committee's recommendation on  Rule 92 was adopted unanimously.  Rules 103, 104 and 105
(91) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that in Rules 103,
104 and 105 the words "Associate Members" had to  be added.
(92) The amendment to Rules 103, 104 and 105 was  adopted unanimously.
(93) Mr. BAUGNIET (Rapporteur) then submitted  the proposed amendment to Rule 106.
(94) Adopted.
(95) Paragraph 8 of document 8C/JUR/3 was  likewise approved,
(96) Document 8C/JUR/3 was then adopted as a  whole subject to the amendments previously  agreed upon,  The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m,