(86) The CHAIRMAN replied that the Organi-  zation was in fact representative of the  Member States and was therefore unlikely  to take action that might estrange them.  The meeting rose at 12.30 p.m.  THIRTY-THIRD MEETING
30 November 1954 at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman : Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Australla)  PROPOSALS CONCERNING THE FUTURE PROGRAMME OF THE  ORGANIZATION (documents 8C/DIV/122 — formerly United States  deleg. 8C/PRG/48 — 8C/DIV/123, 8C/DIV/124 and 8C/DIV/125)
(1) The CHAIRMAN, opening the meeting, pointed  to a slight change to be introduced in the text of  document 8C/DIV/124. At the end of the third line  of paragraph 3, the words'they include"should be  replaced by they are aimed at! Similarly, after  sub-paragraph (b) in 3, the words and cover should  be replaced by these activities include’
(2) He then moved to the consideration of document
8C/D1V/123, which constituted a redrafting of the  first sentence in paragraph 7 of 8C/DIV/122,  based on the morning's discussions. He asked for  comments on it.
(3) No comments having been made, the document  was considered adopted and would be incorporated  in the final document.
(4) Going on to examination of the areas of high  priority enumerated in that paragraph 7, the  CHAIRMAN referred to the mention which had been  made at the morning meeting of the considerable  work already done in the determination of priority  areas both by the Economic and Social Council and  by the General Conference itself. The Committee  would have before it, in a few moments, a document  summarizing that work.
(5) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) proposed that,  in the meantime, the Committee move to the  examination of paragraphs 9 and 10 of document
8C/DIV/122, The two paragraphs were fairly non-  controversial, as they corresponded more or less  to the views expressed at the morning meeting.  {6) It was however agreed to adjourn for ten  minutes, to enable the Committee to be in possession  of the documents before proceeding with the  discussion.
(7) The meeting was resumed when document
8C/DIV/125, listing the Unesco and United Nations  documents on programme priorities, was distributed,  together with a copy of document 7C/Resolutions,  where the report of the working party of the seventh  - 845 -     session on the future programme and development  of Unesco was reproduced in extenso.
(8) The CHAIRMAN said that the Committee had  now before it a fairly wide list of areas to choose  from.
(9) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  thought that, in view of the great variety of proposals  contained in the documents which had been distri-  buted, the best practical basis for discussion would  be to take from the table of contents in document
8C/5 (proposed programme and budget) the items  relating to those of Unesco's activities whose  importance the General Conference had never  contested. In the chapter on education, for  instance, he mentioned items 1,21, 1.31, 1.32  and 1.33 in Section II. With regard to document
8C/DIV/125, he noted that, among the priority  programmes adopted by the United Nations, only  paragraphs E and F related to Unesco's work.
(10) The CHAIRMAN said that, starting with the  chapter on education, the Committee had a number  of items to consider in 8C/DIV/125, those being  items (a), (b), (c) and (d) under paragraph E, and  (a) under paragraph F. Referring to the Florence  Decalogue, there were th. ‘‘rst three tasks to be  considered. In document 8C/DIV/1ca, 1.0 **-et  two areas mentioned in paragraph 7 were involved.
(11) Before going into a detailed discussion of  those various recommendations, the Committee  should formulate an answer to two fundamental  questions: what was the extent of concentration  aimed at and how many projects would be specifically  mentioned ?
(12) Mr. FRANCOIS (France)was disturbed and  confused by the formidable number of documents  and proposals from which a few priority areas and  projects for recommendation to the General  Conference had to be extracted. In his opinion,  the document submitted by the United States  delegation had certainly been drawn up with due  regard to all the work already accomplished,  either by the United Nations or by the General  Conference itself. He therefore proposed that the  United States document be taken as the basis   VI-33 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  for discussion and amended in the light of  observations made ty members of the Committee.
(13) The CHAIRMAN expressed his agreement with  the proposal of the delegate of France. It had been  deemed desirable that the Committee be in possession  of all relevant inforination, However, if the Commit-  tee agreed, the proposals put forward by the United  States delegation could well form a basis for  discussion. The Committee would therefore  examine them, and adopt or modify each point  contained in them.
(14) Mr. LEE (United States of America) stated  that he had presented the list in the document without  any assumption that it would be finally adopted. It  was only put forward for the guidance of the  Secretariat and of the Executive Board. There was  no point in trying to enumerate all the fields where  Unesco was active. On the other hand, it would  not be convenient to make the list too restrictive.  The Organization should aim at utilizing all skills  and types of knowledge and, above all, avoid  departmentalization.
(13) 1he CHAIRMAN said that the best way would  be to take the United States list, and modify the  points therein mentioned in the light of the dis-  cussion, but, nevertheless, to use it as a basis.
(16) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) agreed with the list  of priority areas in paragraph 7 of document
8C/DIV/122, except for item (4). He proposed that  the wording should be amended to read "social  science research to reduce racial, social and  international tensions’, and that it should be  mentioned at the end that the items were not listed  in order of importance.
(17) Mr. LEE (United States of America) asked  for an interpretation of the rewording proposed by  his French colleague. Was it the intention to limit  action to research in the social sciences, or was  the definition to be bread enough to include media  of mass communication?
(18) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) observed, regarding  item (1) in the list, that that was an area where  what was required was not so much a series of  major projects, as aid to Member States, It would  be useful therefore not to lay it down as a priority  area, but to couple it with technical aid.
(19) On area (4) he wished to add something  regarding peaceful co-operation, and in area (6)  the utilization of scientific knowledge for peaceful  purposes and the application of scientific discoveries  and achievements to improvement of the living  conditions of mankind should both be stressed.
(20) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) asked whether  item (2) should not include vocational training. He  also found that item (5) was too vague and that the  exchange of culture should be accompanied by  research and study of the various cultural values  existing in the world.
(21) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) said  - 846 -     that for eight years he had been listening to similar  discussions, both in the United Nations and in the  Specialized Agencies, and had found them all alike.  Whenever the idea of working out a concentrated  programme was mooted, everybody was at first  full of enthusiasm: committees set out to be very  strict, to retain none but genuine priority projects,  very carefully chosen. They proposed ruthless  cuts so that only what was really essential would  remain. But as soon as they came to discuss  specific projects, difficulties arose. Each  delegation in turn put forward very strong arguments  for retaining or re-inserting a particular project.  Definitions became wider and wider and increasingly  vague and indefinite. The final result was not very  different from the original.
(22) He warned the Committee against that tendency,  which was already evident in the amendments  proposed by France and India in connexion with  item (4).
(23) What the Director-General hoped to obtain  from the General Conference was a series of  definite directives on a few specific points  connected with the future programme, and he  trusted that the Committee's discussion would  follow that line steadily.
(24) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) thought nobody could  fail to realize that, when meetings were requested  to suggest cuts or make savings in a programme,  the result was the opposite of what was desired.  Economies were effected only when the government  suggested them, at the request of parliament. In  the case in point, however, he did not think that  any attempt was being made to go back to Unesco's  past programmes,
(25) He maintained that it was most important for  Unesco to give attention to the problem of racial  tensions. Not long ago the world had gone through  terrible suffering because of such tensions, and  even at the present time they were an acute problem  in several parts of the globe. He therefore did not  think he was overstating the truth in saying that  Unesco should take action in that field as soon as  possible.
(26) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  said that where he disagreed with the French dele-  gate was on the expression the problem of tensions.  In his opinion, that was more than an area; the  whole of Unesco's work was directed towards the  solution of the problem of tensions in the world.
(27) The CHAIRMAN agreed that it was a matter  of how much the Conference wished to place limits  on the activities now being defined.
(28) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) suggested thai  this was a first reading of the document, during  whick it would be difficult to arrive at a final  decision. The Committee would be in a better  position to appreciate it when it reached a second  reading.
(29) The CHAIRMAN agreed with the delegate of  Egypt. Nevertheless he could see the point made  by the delegate of France, and would like   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET V1-33  an agreement to be reached on principles.
(30) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) thought it would be  difficult to avoid mentioning a particular field when  defining priority areas. The two notions were much  too closely tied together for a separation to be  made easily. On the other hand, he feared that  fields not mentioned would be considered as not  being of high priority.
(31) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  proposed that a preliminary selection of priority  areas for discussion be made immediately. In the  light of the discussion, the Director-General could  then submit specific proposals for delimiting the  work more exactly within each of the a.cepted ai cas,
(32) The CHAIRMAN accepted the suggestion by the  Assistant Director-General. The tensions problem  would be placed among the high priority areas, and  the next day further study would be made of that  point, taking into consideration specific ideas put  forward by the Director-General.
(33) Mr. PANNETON (Canada) was always pleased  to hear any reference to concentration of the pro-  gramme because in his opinion that was the best  way of making Unesco more efficient. It seemed to  him that items (1), (2), (3) and (4) in paragraph 7  should have very high priority, while the last two  depended upon the first four and should give way to  them.
(34) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) reminded the  Assistant Director-General of the question he had  put forward, and wondered if an answer were now  available,
(35) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  said that he had the replies which he had promised  the Egyptian delegate that morning. He pointed out  that the figures in the reply were expressed as  percentages of the whole of Part II of the programme,  with the exception of the Documents and Publications  Service. He warned the meeting not to interpret the  figures too strictly.
(36) For item (1) the appropriations for 1955 to 1956  were 7, 84% of the total, For item (2) the appropri-  ations were 14.70%, for item (3) 18.56%, and for  item (4) 1.17%.
(37) He mentioned that the last figure referred  only to appropriations in the Social Sciences chapter  and did not include any Education or Mass  Communication projects,
(38) For item (5) the appropriations for 1955 to 1956  were 3.69% of the total and for item (6) 3.12%,
(39) Mr. Maheu pointed out that the last figure  referred only to Natural Science projects. If  certain Social Science projects were included, the  figure became 4, 58%.
(40) Mr, ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) agreed with the  delegate of India that, when choosing high priority  areas, one had always in view what type of projects  would come under them. He noted, from the figures  given by the Assistant Director-General, that the  six areas mentioned under paragraph 7 accounted for  - 847 -     about 50% of the programme for 1955-56. With  concentration of the programme, that would  become 100%. He therefore proposed that, within  each area, an appropriate sub-title be agreed upon,  in order to obtain the best results.
(41) Mr. LEE (United States of America) under-  stood that the Director-General would present a  list of such possible choices at the next meeting.
(42) The CHAIRMAN suggested that the Committee  agree on a list of about half a dozen high priority  areas, to be defined in fairly wide terms. He  would then propose within each area a series of  three possible breakdowns, on which the  Committee would make a choice.
(43) Mr. LEE (United States of America) preferred  a list of about 15 such priority areas, out of which  the Committee would choose only 8 by selective  voting. He particularly had in mind the objections  raised by the delegates of France, Norway and  India, and did not find it practicable to start on  such a narrow basis as 6 areas,
(44) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) was pleased that  priority areas already accounted for 50% of the  programme. He did not favour the procedure of  successive votes on a longer list.
(45) The CHAIRMAN asked if the Committee  agreed on items (1) and (2) in paragraph 7.
(46) Items (1) and (2) were agreed upon by the  Committee.
(47) The CHAIRMAN then opened discussion of  item (3).
(48) Mr. LEE (United States of America),  keeping in mind the remarks of the delegate of  France, suggested that action to remove tensions  might well be included under that item.
(49) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  doubted whether item (3) should be included in the  paragraph, as the Committee had classified  action for the promotion of international under-  standing among the general activities, He  personally felt that item (3) was not a project but  a permanent activity and proposed that it be  deleted from the paragraph.
(50) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) agreed with  that view. The Committee, instead of working on  concentration of the programme, was merely  relabelling activities.
(51) The CHAIRMAN asked whether the Committee  agreed with what the Assistant Director-General  had just said.
(52) Mr. LEE (United States of America) could  not agree. If that item was a permanent function  of Unesco, the same could be said of fundamental  education, and of the development of scientific  research.   VI-33 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON
(53) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) found the  sentence too vague, it contained a whole programme.  The Committee should try to be more specific, and  recommend some concrete subject.
(54) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) proposed that items
(3) and (4) be combined so as to cover both  inter-  national understanding and action to remove tensions  of any kind.
(55) It was agreed to eliminate item (3) on the  understanding that it would be covered by the next  item.
(56) The CHAIRMAN opened discussion on item (4).
(57) Mr, FRANCOIS (France), in the course of a  general discussion on this item, repeated his pro-  posal, made earlier, that the item be modified to  include the reduction of racial, social and  international tensions.
(58) The CHAIRMAN reminded the Assistant  Director-General of his offer to put to the Committee  suggestions for possible specifications of each area,  unce that area had been accepted in principle by the  Committee.
(59) He acked whether the Assistant Director-General  would present such specifications for items (1) and
(2) as well as for item (3).
(60) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) said  that, in his opinion, it was unnecessary to be more  specific with regard to items (1) and (2), which  seemed to him sufficiently precise. He would make  suggestions only on item (4), which was vaguer.
(61) The CHAIRMAN proposed, in that case, that  the Committee should do that now, and he thought  that it would be easy.
(62) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) said that, in his opinion,  the whole theme was important, and to try and narrow  it down would leave aside a number of problems  where Unesco's action was absolutely essential,
(63) The CHAIRMAN agreed with the delegate of  India that all problems coming under that item were  important, However, it was the Committee's task  to indicate to the Director-General those projects  upon which it was necessary to concentrate Unesco's  action.
(64) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  reminded the Committee of three important consi-  derations which should guide it in its choice of  priority areas: first, the importance of the subject;  next, the urgency of the problem, and lastly the  effectiveness of Unesco's action in this area, It  should not be forgotten that Unesco was a young  organization which was only just beginning to make  itself heard in the world. It would be a mistake to  commit the Organization without due consideration  to action in an area where it could not make its  influence felt. He asked the Committee to reflect  what would happen to Unesco's prestige, and to the  confidence which the peoples of different countries  - 848 -     PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  placed in the Organization, if, after raising great  hopes, it failed in its attack on a problem that  proved beyond its solution.
(65) Mr. LEE (United States of America),  referring to paragraph E (c) of the Economic and  Social Council list of priorities (document
8C/DIV/125), proposed adoption of the sentence  without the words "Education for", and suggested the  addition of*'education for the removal of  discrimination}
(66) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) thought that would  be a very suitable problem for Unesco's attention:  the analysis of the conditions for coexistence.
(67) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom), referring  to project 3.4 of the Social Sciences programme,  wondered if the resolution did not cover the point  now being considered.
(68) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that, if the  Committee could not reach agreement on a narrow  area, then, it would have to be extended until some  point of common agreement was found.
(69) It was agreed that the proposal of the delegate  of France would be used as a basis for the point,  leaving the Chairman and the Rapporteur the final  drafting of it.
(70) The CHAIRMAN then moved to discussion of  item (5) of paragraph 7.
(71) Mr, MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  doubted whether the word exchange was correct,  In his opinion, the term was too vague,
(72) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) proposed "knowledge  and mutual understanding of different cultures".
(73) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  thought that the text should be more precise.
(74 Th. CHAIRMAN reminded the Committee of  its earlier decision to give priority to the exchange  of culture between the East and the West, and  proposed the following draft ''mutual appreciation  and understanding of Eastern and Western cultural  values",
(75) Mr. FREY (German Federal Republic)  seconded the Chairman's proposal.
(76) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) proposed  "comparative study of Eastern and Western  cultures".
(77) The CHAIRMAN would not agree, It did not  seem that the study would correspond to an area  where priority ought to be considered essential.
(78) Mr. LEE (United States of America) suggested  "promotion of East and West inter-cultural  exchanges for international understanding’.
(79) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET V1-33  thought that, in French, the sentence might read  “connaissance et compréhension mutuelle des  cultures de l'Orient et de l'Occident”. The delegate  of fhe United States of America wished tu add "for  international understanding’, but that would be  anticipating the results, Mr, Maheu asked him if  he insisted on the last phrase.
(80) Mr. LEE (United States of Americ a) agreed  to the deletion of the words "for international  understanding’ from his proposal.
(81) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) suggested  instead "the enrichment of cultural life".
(82) The THAIRMAN, summing up, said that there  were two proposals before the Committee, one  from the delegate of Norway and the other from the  United States delegate, modified in the light of the  ensuing discussion. He called for support of the  proposal of the delegate of Norway.
(83) No support being given, that proposal was  dropped.
(84) The CHAIRMAN then read the proposal of the  Assistant Director-General.
(85) This last proposal was adopted.
(86) The Committee moved to discussion of item
(6) of paragraph 7.
(87) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  asked whether the United States delegate wished to  retain the word natural} It seemed to him that the  Social “ciences were also concerned,
(88) Mr. LEE (United States of America) agreed to  deletion of the word natural although, for American  audiences, he would have both words natural and  social?
(89) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) referred to his earlier  proposal for additions to this point, He also  proposed to include research into the application of  atomic energy to peaceful purposes.
(90) The CHAIRMAN accepted the first point of ‘he  delegate of India, leaving the Committee to take  the final decision. The second point, however,  seemed to be too restrictive, and contrary to ‘he  accepted definition of an area.
(91) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  agreed with regard to the second point prcposed by  the Indian delegate that it was really too vestrictive.  It would mean including applied science but he  reminded the meeting that, although scientific  research was a matter for Unesco alone, several  other Specialized Agencies, such as WHO and FAO,  were concerned with the applied forms of certain  sciences,
(92) Reverting to the first point, he proposed that  the words for peaceful purposes be deleted.
(93) Mr, JUNANKAR (India) remarked that tha  - 849 -     applications of sciençe were also important for the  improvement of the living conditions of mankind,
(94) He also wished to maintain the words for  peaceful purposes, Scientific research could be  directed both tcwards war and towards peace, and  it was Unesco's task to encourage only such research  as would tend to the promotion of international  peace.
(95) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) preferred  not Lo add the words for peaceful purposes.
(96) Mr. LEE (United States of America) remarked  that action to promote peace was implied in all  Unesco action and was in fact the very reason for  Unesco's existence.
(97) Mr, JUNANKAR (India) added that the diffusion  of scientific knowledge was also important, and  that it would be eliminated from Unesco's action,  if the present draft were adopted.
(98) The CHAIRMAN remarked that, since the  Committee was aiming at concentrating activity  on a small group of high priority areas, some of  them wouid naturally be left out.
(99) He asked whether the Committee wished to  retain*for peaceful purposes:
(100) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) stated that he  considered the second point to be important, and  proposed that it should appear in the recommenda-  tions of the Committee. To his mind, the mention  of peaceful purposes was a specific recommendation,  without which the interpretation of item (6) would  not be satisfactory.
(101) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  thought the fact of adding for the improvement of  living conditions in itself indicated a utilitarian  purpose. If the Committee wished to include the  practical application of science in its recommend-  ations, it should be inserted as an additional item.
(102) Mr. LEE (United States of America) propr-~d  that item (6) be adopted as suggested by the  Assistant Director-General,
(103) This was agreed.
(104) The CHAIRMAN then moved to consideration  of paragraphs 8 and 9.
(105) Mr. PANNETON (Canada) proposed to make  the French and English texts of paragraph 8 agree.  He suggested replacing "not less than 3 and not  more than 6" by ‘a small number", which seemed  to him less restrictive.
(106) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) proposed  to delete the last sentence in paragraph 9.
(107) The two paragraphs, as amended, were  adopted.
(108) Mr, MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  proposed to delete the word ‘truly’ from   Vi-34 ADVISORY  paragraph 10 and also suggested th:  "task force’ be altered.  the expression
(109) Mr, LEE (United States of America) agreed  to the dropping cf'task force.
(110) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) suggested  merging paragraphs 10 and 11 wnich formed one  directive.
(111) Mr. LEE (United St. *e~ zf America) favoured  separate paragraphs. In paragraph 11, there was  a specific authorization to the Director-General to  establish a planning unit.
(112) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) recommended  therefore changing the order, and making paragraph
11 become 10, as the sejuerce would then be more  logical, Fe also favoured suppression of the words  in his immediate office in that paragraph.
(113) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) doubted whether  paragraph 11, which in ro way increased the powers  of the Director-General, served any useful purpose,  as he could already introduce changes in the admini-  strative structure of the Organization without the  authorization of the General Conference, and had in  fact done so.
(114) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  confirmed that the Director-General was competent  to alter the administrative structure of the  Orgamzation.
(118) Nevertheless, he hoped that paragraph 10  would be retained in an amended form, in order to  give a more concrete basis for the Director-General's  COMMITTEE ON     PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  action in introducing tne changes made necessary by  the remodelling of the programme. He suggested  the following wording:  "The Director-General 1s authorized to study the  methods for administering major projects and to give  specia. consideration to the organizational pattern  calculated to ensure full use of all relevant discip-  lines, as each project may require".
(116) He agreed that the order of paragraphs 10 and
11 should be changed as suggested by the United  Kingdom delegate, but doubted whether paragraph 11  was really necessary. It seemed to him even  dangerous.
(117) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) agreed to the  suppression of paragraph 11 and suggested further  that paragraph 10 might be deleted.
(118) Mr, LEE (United States of America) agreed  to deletion of paragraph 10.
(119) Mr. COWELL (United “ingdom) wished to  know what additional authority paragraph 10 gave  to the Director-General,
(120) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  admitted that paragraph 10 in no way increased the  existing powers of the Director-General. He thought,  however, that, for psychological reasons, 1t would  be wiser tc reassert the principle.
(121) It was decided by 5 votes to 1, without  abstention, that paragraph 10, in its new form,  should be retained.  The meeting rcse at 6.55 p.m.  THIRTY-FOURTH MEETING  ! December 1954 at 10 a.m.  Chairman: Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Australia)  DRAFT RESOLUTION CONCERNING THE FUTURE PROGRAMME  (document 8C/DIV/127)
(1) The CHAIRMAN, opening the discussion, said  that he did not understand paragraph 10,
(2) Mr, LEE (United States of America) said it was  not known whethier money and staff would be required  for planning, The paragraph had been included to  ensure that the proposals made in the resolution did  not fall through if the Director-General and his staff  felt unable to devote the necessary time to the import-  ant planning required for the high priority activities.
(3) Mr, MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) stated    - 850 -  that he now understood more clearly the sense which  the United States delegate attribut. i to paragraph 10.  Even so, he thought that it might with advantage be  moved elsewhere, and that the wording might be  altered.
(4) The point of the paragraph was to ask the  Director-General to pay particular attention to the  planning referred to in paragraph 7. It gave the  Director-General increased authority by empha-  sizing that the work in question was no mere  routine matter, but creative and imaginative work  which should accompany the implementation of the  programme for 1955-56, It would therefore be  better for that paragraph 10 to come at the end of  paragraph 7, or to be inserted between the