25 November 1954 at 12 noon  Chairman : Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Australia)  REPORT OF THE ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME  AND BUDGET (PART IV): EXAMINATION OF THE FINAL  REPORT OF THE EXPERT COMMITTEE ON EDUCATION  FOR INTERNATIONAL UNDERSTANDING AND CO-OPERATION  (document 8C/BUD/3 (prov.))
(1) The French text of document 8C/BUD/3 (prov.)  being the only one available at the beginning of the  meeting, the Committee agreed to begin by consider-  ing the French text, the English and Spanish-speaking  members being free to submit their comments on the  drafting of the English and Spanish translations later.
(2) Mr. SEDES (Rapporteur) mentioned that, in  writing his report, he had been guided by two con-  siderations: to give a faithful account of the Advisory  Committee's deliberations, and to provide the  Programme and Budget Commission with the  reference document it expected.
(3) For the sake of clarity and logic, he had not  repeated certain details of the discussion, which  would appear in the minutes of the various meetings,  and he had made a few changes in the order of items.
(4) The introductory remarks on page 1 were adopted  without comment,  Education (page 2 of provisional English text)
(5) Referring to paragraphs 186-192, Teaching  about the United Nations, Mr, GUITON (representing  the Director-General) said that several contracts  had been proposed.
(6) Mr. SEDES (Rapporteur) pointed out that the °  members of the Secretariat who had attended the  meeting had mentioned only one - the contract with  the International Association of Universities,
(7) The CHAIRMAN suggested that the very useful  word notamment’ be included in the French text  (‘'(notamment le contrat avec l'Association inter-  nationale des Universités)") English - "(for instance,  a contract with the International Association of  Universities}".
(8) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) said that it  would be well if the Committee's previous attitude,  mentioned in the last line, were to be briefly  outlined.
(9) In answer to a question from Mr, PANNE TON  (Canada) concerning the previous paragraph, Mr.  SEDES (Rapporteur) said that the words to leave it    - 832 -  to rightly reflected the Committee's desire to leave  the choice of the necessary measures to the  discretion of the Director-General and his colleagues,
(10) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the words  Secrétariat général" in the second and third lines of  the same paragraph headed Paragraphs 179-185:  Textbooks and Teaching Materials (French text)  should read simply'Secrétariat".
(11) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom), referring to  the same paragraph, said he had been under the  inpression that, by a vote of 12 in favour, with one  abstention, the Committee had supported the idea  of holding only one conference.
(12) The SECHETARY read out the experts!’  recommendation on the matter (document 8C/DIV/80,  page 13): "The Committee strongly supports the  plan for textbook studies which focuses attention on  the problems of promoting understanding between  peoples of widely different cultural traditions. It  questions, however, whether two conferences  should be held in successive years, 1955 and 1956,  in view of the slow tempo of such studies".
(13) The CHAIRMAN said that, if he remembered  rightly, the Committee had strongly endorsed the  experts' view, Perhaps the Rapporteur would be  able to convey that in his report.
(14) Mr, Duering had expressed the opinion that  the vote taken would involve abandonment of the  conference which would have been held in South  East Asia.  Natural Sciences  Paragraph 34- International Geophysical Year
(15) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) asked whether  the Committee had not decided, by vote, to reject  the experts' recommendation for a 20% increase  in subventions.
(16) The CHAIRMAN said that the Committee had  agreed to include in ite report a statement to the  effect that 20% was a purely arbitrary figure.
(17) Mr. SEDES (Rapporteur) then explained  that the Committee had noted that the 20%  increase proposed by the experts was not  based on any very exact estimates, and had  wished to stress that the figure was merely  a suggestion,   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VI-30
(18) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) suggested that  the words a titre indicatif be inserted in the French  text,  Social Sciences  Paragraphs 174-180: Information campaign on  race problems
(19) The CHAIRMAN said that precise figures  should be given instead of the $20,000 mentioned as  the additional credit proposed for tne wider distri-  bution of Unesco publications,  Cultural Activities
(20) No comments.  Mass Communication  Paragraphs 205-221: Unesco Coupon Scheme
(21) The CHAIRMAN said it would be well if the  former attitude of the Committee were to be briefly  outlined,  Establishment of an international school in Paris
(22) Replying to a remark by Mr, AVIDOR (Israel),  who was in favour of adding, at the end of the para-  graph, "even if its establishment is admitted to be  necessary", Mr, SEDES (Rapporteur) recalled that  the Committee, with one exception, had decided to  endorse the experts' views - as was in fact stated  in the paragraph in question.
(23) Following a suggestion from Mr. PANNETON  (Canada) for the deletion of the second half of  paragraph 23 from "that: .., .’, the CHAIRMAN  read out the experts’ recommendation.
(24) The Committee then confirmed that it wished  to keep the wording as it stood,  Unesco's Methods of Action
(25) The CHAIRMAN observed that, in the French  text, the words "Commission générale du Programme  et du Budget" should read "Commission du Pro-  gramme et du Budget".  I. Direct and Indirect Action
(26) The CHAIRMAN questioned the words biased  and not competent (French: partiellement  incompétents) as applied to experts drawn from the  Secretariat,
(27) Mr. SEDES (Rapporteur) said that the word  biased had been used during the debates in the sense  that experts outside the Organization would probably  be more detached, and therefore more unbiased.
(28) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) wondered whether,  on another point, the paragraph really reflected the  opinion of the Expert Committee; would not the  writing of a manuscript by a member of the    Secretariat also have budgetary repercussions?
(28) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) suggested  that the sentence in question should simply be  redrafted to say that it could not be expected that  expert knowledge in every field was to be found in  the Secretariat.
(30) The CHAIRMAN thought that reference might  suitably be made to the fact that members of the  Secretariat could not prepare manuscripts and do  their routine work at the same time.
(31) Mr. GUITON (representing the Director-  General) hoped that, if the term biased were  retained, it would be qualified by some words of  explanation.
(32) Mr. SEDES Rapporteur) said that it was  quite clear from .he context, where it was contrasted  with the phras- "less likely to be biased in any way  as regards Lnesco itself" that the word applied to  the attitude of outside experts.
(33) The CHAIRMAN said that the point could  safely be left to the Rapporteur and himself.  II. Methods in general
(34) Approved without comment.  II. Specific methods of action  B. International Seminars
(35) Mr, PANNETON (Canada) reminded the  Committee that it had been agreed, with regard to  the duration of seminars, that the French text of  the recommendations was the one to follow,
(36) It was decided that the report should be  amended accordingly.
(37) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom), referring  to the third paragraph under B. International  Seminars, enquired what was implied by the words  "which would be given sound publicity by the  methods suggested’. The Committee, if he  understood aright, had rejected a recommendation  by the Expert Committee to the effect that writers  of standing be engaged. A suggestion had also  been made that the Director-General should co-  operate with the Chief of the Mass Communication  Department in the field covered by the paragraph.
(38) The CHAIRMAN said it had also been agreed  to refer the matter to the working party on mass  communication,
(39) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) and the CHAIRMAN  thought that the last paragraph could be deleted.
(40) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) thought it might be  misleading.
(41) Mr, SEDES (Rapporteur), on the other hand,  felt that the last paragraph did in fact convey a new   V1-30 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON  idea, namely, that apportionment of expenses would  not be an automatic process, but would depend on  the nature of the seminar,
(42) The CHAIRMAN, summing up, said that it had  been stressed in the Committee that the experts  were merely making suggestions for experiments  by Unesco in the holding of seminars, Perhaps that  point should be made somewhat clearer in the  section under discussion. In the meantime the sense  of the Committee seemed to be that the last paragraph  should be omitted.  C. Fellowships
(43) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) said that exception had  been taken in the Committee to the word ‘denational-  izing used by the experts in paragraph (5) (f) of their  recommendations (8C/DIV/80). The word was too  strong.
(44) Mr, SILLER (Mexico) stated that, at the  previous meeting, the Committee had approved a  proposal by the delegate of the United States of  America that the word'denationalizing should not be  used in the report.
(45) Mr. LEE (United States of America) said that,  while the Committee had accepted the substance of  paragraph (5) (f), it had agreed to include in its  report a statement to the effect that it disliked that  particular word.
(46) The CHAIRMAN observed that the point could  be left to the Rapporteur.  G. Exhibitions
(47) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) doubted whether the  last paragraph, which related solely to art exhibitions,  was clear.
(48) The CHAIRMAN asked him to consult with  Mr. Sedes about redrafting the passage.
(49) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) enquired what was  meant by saying that an exhibition would be "treated  as an item in a co-ordinated whole".
(50) The CHAIRMAN said that, while Unesco often  had but a limited part to play in organizing any    PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  particular exhibition, it was frequently able to  ensure that the organizers viewed the exhibition as  an item in a complex whole.
(51) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) said that the  Committee had agreed how hard it was to assess  the results of exhibitions, and that more research  was neede i in that field.
(52) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) doubted whether the  Committee had in fact so decided, Surely the  feeling had been that the results of any exhibition  should be carefully considered.
(53) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) stressed the  special need for consideration verure sn exhibition  was launched.
(54) The CHAIRMAN said that the point might  safely be left to the Rapporteur.
(55) Mr, JUNANKAR (India) asked what was meant  by saying that the subjects chosen should develop  aesthetic appreciation. Surely exhibitions were  also held for educational purposes.
(56) It was agreed that Mr. Florkin (Belgium)  should supply a draft for a new second paragraph  under Section G.  H. Mass media of communication
(57) Mr. LEE (United States of America) thought  that the section should be referred to the working  party on mass communication.
(58) The CHAIRMAN said he would write to the  Chairman of the warking party, forwarding those  parts of the report of concern to him.
(59) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) suggested  that the words "be viewed independently, that is  to say, as representing the experts' own ideas"  should be changed to read: "be regarded as a  personal statement of the experts' own ideas ..."
(60) Subject to the comments made and the amend-  ments adopted, the report (document 8C/BUD/3  (prov. )) was adopted,  The meeting rose at 1.25 p.m.  - 834 -