LEGAL COMMITTEE
(78) After a brief discussion it was decided to add  Russian to the list of working languages at present  appearing in Rules 52, 55 and 60.
(79) Upon the proposal of Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan),  it was also decided that the heading of Rule 53 should  SEVENTH  VIII-7  be amended to read "language of the country in which  the Conference is being held" instead of "Additional  working languages".  The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m,  MEETING
2 December 1954 at 3,30 p.m.  Chairman : Mr. AWAD (Egypt)  DRAFT RESOLUTION AMENDING THE FINANCIAL  REGULATIONS (document 8C/DR/90)
(1) Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller), referring  to the proposal contained in paragraph 4 of the Spanish  resolution that the Director-General should submit a  revised version of the Financial Regulations to the  General Conference at its ninth session, pointed out  that the United Nations and its Specialized Agencies  had held a series of meetings three years previously  to try and agree on uniform financial regulations.  Financial regulations common to the United Nations  and its Specialized Agencies, with variations only 1n  accordance with their various Constitutions, had been  finally agreed upon. Those regulations had been  submitted to and adopted by the General Conference  at its sixth session. Slight modifications had been  made by the General Conference at its seventh session,  but they did not alter the substance of the regulations.
(2) He submitted that it would be difficult for the  General Conference to revise the Financial Regula-  tions without going through the machinery of the  United Nations and its Specialized Agencies.
(3) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) added to the remarks  made by the Comptroller and said that one of the  provisions of the draft resolution (first paragraph)  would be difficult to apply. It was stipulated that  thenceforward no decision of the General Conference  should be valid if it was contrary to the provisions of  any part of the Financial Regulations. As it was the  Director-General and the Secretariat who were  responsible for executing the decisions of the  Conference, that provision would put the Director-  General in a difficult position by obliging him to  interpret both a resolution and the Financial  Regulations; it might also force him to forbid a  particular resolution being executed; he would thus  act both as executive agent and final arbiter; Mr.  Saba urged the Committee not to impose sucha  responsibility on the Director-General, He asked  the Spanish delegate if he would be prepared to  withdraw that provision.  - 901 -
(4) In answer to the CHAIRMAN, who asked what was  really expected of the Legal Committee, Mr.  HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) said that the  Administrative Commission had considered that, as  the majority of points in the resoluticn would involve  changes to the Rules of Procedure, it would request  the advice of the Legal Committee.
(5) If paragra; h 1 became effective, an insertion  would be necessary in the Ruies of Procedure.  Likewise, paragraphs 2 and 3 referred to Rules of  Procedure.
(6) The CHAIRMAN remarked that the Admimstrative  Commission had taken no ecision on the resolution  and it was not yet clear what 1t wished to do about it.  In that case, he t.ought that the Committee vias frer  to give the resoluuon consideration along an, lirz,  suggested by 1ts members.
(7) Mr. KOTSCHNIG (United Sta‘ - o America)  shared the apprehension of the Lega. Comittee  concerning the impact of paragraph 1 and wondered  if the delegation of Spain would be villing to withdraw  that paragraph.
(8) In his opinion, paragraphs 2 . nd 3 presented no  difficulties. À financial regulaticn would not be  suspended lightly. He was willirz to support the  proposals.
(9) Paragraph 4 was not clear. He would agree if  the Director-General were asked to make a study of  the effectiveness and soundness of the financial  regulations and to report to the General Conference  at its ninth session.
(10) Mr. FRAGA IRIBARNE (Spain) thanked the  Chairman and members of the Committee for allowing  him to speak although he was not a member of the  Committee.
(11) He said he had listened to the criticism made  about tne draft resolution presented by his delegation  to amend the Financial Regulations and was prepared  to withdraw paragraph 1. He thought that paragraph
4 could be altered so as to avoid the disadvantages  which had been mentioned; thus paragraphs 2and 3 would  remain; those he wishedto maintainas being of value.   VIII-7
(12) Mr. CABOUAT (France) said that the French  delegation shared the United States delegate's feelings  and thought that, if the first paragraph were approved,  it might put the Conference in an embarrassing  position, The French delegation was, however,  prepared to support paragraphs 2 and 3, Paragraph
1 would be improved if it were slightly amended so  as to leave the Director-General greater latitude in  applying it.
(13) Mr. ARTHUK (United Kingdom) sympathized  with the resolution proposed by Spain. He <eminded  the Committee that the United Kingdom delegation, in  the Administrative Commission, had proposed that  the Financial Regulations should be adhered to in  financing the 1955-56 programme, It had been  grateful for the support of the Spanish delegation,
(14) The resolution submitted by the delegation of  Spain, however, contained points to which he could  not agree. In the first place, with regard to  paragraph 1, he thought that 1t was highly questionable  whether one General Conference could pass a  resolution that would commit another one.
(15) He had no objection to paragraph 2.
(16) In his opinion, paragraph 3 itself involved adding  a Rule to or amending a Rule of the Rules of  Procedure.
(17) He hoped that the delegation of Spain would agree  to withdraw paragraph 4 from the resolution. All that  was necessary was for the General Conference ‘o  agree to adhere to the Financial Regulations,
(18) He thought that the Committee could agree that  the basic problem was how to persuade the General  Conference that, having adopted financial regulations,  it should adhere to them,
(19) He could not support the preamble to the  resolution in its existing form; in his opinion, it did  not represent an accurate account of events.
(20) He had no specific amendments to propose to the  resolution at the present stage and suggested that a  small drafting committee be set up to draft a resolu-  tion in the light of the discussion which had taken  place, for submission to the Administrative  Commission.
(21) Mr. CABOUAT (France) repeated that the  French delegation was prepared to support paragraphs
2 and 3. :
(22) The French delegation would like the third  paragraph of the preamble to be deleted, It seemed  difficult for the Conference to vote a resolution  condemning another resolution taken a few days  earlier; in addition, the term "tacitly infringed"  was too strong and Mr. Cabcuat did not consider its  use to be justified; he also failed to see what had  been meant by "simple" resolutions and said he was  against adopting that term. Mr. Cabouat asked the  delegate of Spain if he would consent to the paragraph  being omitted, as it added little to the first two  paragraphs in which the objectives sought by the  Conference in adopting a resolution of the kind were  clearly defined.
(23) The CHAIRMAN summarized the objections  which had been made to the draft resolution and  asked the Committee if it was in agreement with the  suggestion of the United Kingdom delegate that a    LEGAL COMMITTEE  small drafting committee be set up to draft a  resolution for submission to the Administrative  Commission.
(25) The meeting adjourned for ten minutes and on  resumption the CHAIRMAN called on Mr. Saba,
(26) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) stated that the small  drafting committee had considered that, instead of  proposing the adoption of a resolution, a recommenda-  tion should be made to the Administrative Commission  to include three clauses in that part of its report  dealing with the application of the Financial  Regulations, They might be drafted as follows:  "The Administrative Commission considers that:
1. Any departure from the Financial Regulations  should be preceded by the preliminary suspension of  the provision to which an exception is to be made.
2. No amendment to the Financial Regulations can  be examined by the Conference unless the question  has been placed on the agenda of the General  Conference in accordance with the Rules of Procedure;
3, It would be desirable to insert in the Financial  Regulations a provision that the Regulations may not  be amended nor the application of a Regulation  suspended except by a decision taken by a two-thirds  majority. "
(27, Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) asked what force those  three clauses would have if they were included in the  Administrative Commission's report. ould they  have the force of a recommendation, a resolution or  of an amendment to the Financial Regulations?
(28) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) said that, while  clause 2 was the statement of an existing rule, clause
1 was a recommendation and "vceu", linked with  clause 3; the latter recommended the introduction oi  provisions laying down that a two-thirds majority was  necessary to amend or cancel the application of any  Financial Regulation. The Commission might ask the  Director-General to submit a text to the next session  of the General Conference, but that wculd seem  unnecessary, as he would normally feel obliged to do  do.
(29) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) gathered that that part  of the Commission's report would be no more than a  recommendation, on which a decision would be taken  at the next session of the Conference and that it was  not proposed to alter the Financial Regulations  forthwith; on that understanding, he supported the  drafting committee's proposal.
(30) The Legal Committee agreed to the procedure  proposed by ‘he drafting committee.  Draft Resolution 8C/DR/74 rev. and 8C/DR/113:  Legal guarantees to be provided nationally for the  staff of the Secretariat.
(31) The CHAIRMAN called on Mr. Saba,
(32) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) said that the Legal  Committee's task with regard to this proposal had not  - 902 -   LEGAL  been specified (document 8C/DR/74 rev.); it had  asked the Chairman of the Administrative Commission  for details. The Chairman had replied that his  Commission would like the Legal Committee's  opinion on the character of the l+- an delegation's  proposal and had further asked it to decide whether  the Italian text imposed specific obligations on  governments or whether it was a recommendation  involving no legal obligations. Misgiving had been  aroused by the title of the amendment proposed by the  United Kir.ïdom delegation to the draft resolution  presented by the Italian delegation (document
8C/ADM/113); that title: ''Legal Guarantees to be  provided nationally for the staff of the Secretariat",  the Legal Committee was asked to submit a new  wording closer to the real meaning of the resolution.  The Chairman of the Administrative Commission had  made it clear that it was not for the Legal Committee  to choose between the Italian and United Kingdom  resolutions.
(33) Mr. ARTHUR (United K. - zdom) explained that  there had been a legal reason behind the amendment  proposed by the United Kingdom delegation, If the  Italian proposal were adopted, the General Conference  might impose legal obligations on Member States. The  United Kingdom delegation could not agree to any such  imposition by the General Conference. The United  Kingdom considered each case on its merits and  wished to maintain its freedom to do so.
(34) Further, the Italian resolution implied that it  was the common practice for Member States not to  reinstate their nationals after a term of service with  an international organization. There was not  sufficient evidence to support such an implication.
(35) He was prepared to see the Italian resolution  passed at . ume future date, after sufficient evidence  had been collected to show that the above was indeed  the common practice, He suggested that the  Director-General might be asked to collect informa-  tion from Member States as to the practice followed  by them in that connexion. Further, in order to  obtain that information, the Director-General might  write to Member States about individual cases and  might also enquire about laws passed and policies  adopted in that connexion.
(36) He pointed out that the title to the resolution
8C/DR/74 rev. was that propu: ed by the Italian  delegation. The United Kingdon: delegation would  suggest as a title: "Secondment of the nationals of  Member States for service with international  organizations."
(37) Mr. BOW (Canada) was not clear whether the  United Kingdom proposal was an amendmzat of the  Italian proposal, as amended by the United States  delegation, or whether it was a substitute motion.  If it was to be considered an amendment, he was not  clear whether the preamble to the Italian proposal  was to be added to that of the United Kingdom.
(38) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) indicated that  ke was not prepared to agree to the last phrase of  the Italian preamble, as he considered that the whole  question could not be examined until further  information had been obtained.
(39) He thought that it might be wise to consider the  COMMITTEE     VII-7  United Kingdom proposal as a substitute motion,  since it made radical alterations to the Italian  resolution,
(40) He was prepared to accept the Italian preamble  with the exception of the last phrase.
(41) Mr. BOW (Canada) suggested that, 1f the United  Kingdom proposal was to be considered a substitute  motion, the United Kingdom delegate should draft the  preamble for it,
(42) He further suggested that the two resolutions  should be forwarded to the Administrative  Commission to decide which should be adopted.
(43) Mr. ARTHUR (Umted Kingdom) said that, with  regard to the preamble, he would be satisfied 1f the  last phrase were deleted and the word "recoinmends"  added after the word "Secretariat".
(44) The CHAIRMAN asked whether the Committee  would agree to forward the two proposals to the  Administrative Commission with a statement to the  effect that the Legal Committee saw no legal objcction  to the form in which the Italian . esclution had been  drafted and suggesting that the - ..::d Kingdom  proposal should be considered by the Commission if  the Italian resolution were rejected.
(43) Mr. MERMINOD (Switzerl~nd) drew the  Committee's ottention to the fact that, as the  Australian delegate had pointed out at a meeting of  the Commission, a measure of the kind advocated in  the draft recommendation could only have a limited  effect in a Federal State; he spoke from experience  of his own country.
(46) The CHAIRMAN thought that the effect would be  the same in a Federal State as in any other (ype of  State. Unesco could net force governments © pars  laws,
(47) The Committee could mention in its report to  the Administrative Commission that the resolution  should be sent to Member States in the form of a  recommendation.
(48) He asked whether the Committee would be  prepared to leave the drafting to its Bureau,
(39) Mr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America)  had no objection to the procedure suggested by the  Chairman, but warned the Committee that a similar  discussion would take place in the Adininistrative  Commission,
(50) He as.ed why the resolutions had been referred  to the Le; al Committee in the first instance, and  suggested that the Committee should report to the  Administrative Commission that it had been unable to  decide what was required of it with regard to the  two resolutions.
(51) The Legal Committee agreed to report to the  Administrative Commission the substance of the  discussion which had taken nlice,  The meeting rose a* 4.40 p.m.  - 203 -