ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON  "The Director-General has stated that, 1f funds be-  come available as a resv}t of reductions in the budget  estimates, he reserves the right to request the  General Conference to :pprove an appropriation of  $25,000 in 1955 and of $26,000 in 1956 for the  recruitment of these three specialists”,
(10) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) raised the  question of the proposed subvention to the World  Council for the Welfare of the Blind (cf.8C/BUD/SR. 13.  The Councii would require help for a period after  taking over from the World Braille Council, but no  information had been available as to how much  assistance would be required.
(71) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) said  that the Secretariat had indced received a request  from the Council concerned. It wes not owing to  lack of rrformation that no contract had been pi oposed.  PROGRAMME AND BUDGET     VI-21
(72?) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) asked 1f the Se-  cretariat could tell the Committee the amount being  requested by the World Council for the Welfare of  the Blind.
(73) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  munication) replied that the Council had asked for  a sum of $5,000 in 1955 and $5,000 to be given in  the form of contracts for the following year,
(74) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) proposed that  the sum of $2,500 be allocated for the purpose of  granting a subvention to the World Council for the  Welfare of the Blind.
(75) Agreed.  The meeting rose at 12.45 p.m.  TWENTY - FIRST MEETING
13 November 1954 at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman : Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Australia)  PROPOSED PROGRAMME AND BUDGET FOR 1933-36 PART IV:  COMMON SERVICE COSTS — 6. STAFF WELFARE AND  TRAINING PROGRAMME
(1) Mr. FARR (Chief, Rureau of Personnel and  Management), invited to explain what the practice was  in other Specialized Agencies with regard to the pay-  ment of salaries to the secretaries fi staff associa-  tions, said that, as far as he knew, only the United  Nations and Unesco palu such salaries, the United  Nations providing a secretary at a senior level in the  General Service category (Grade F in Unesco  terminology), while Unesco provided one in Grade E.  In Unesco, that had keen the practice since 1948.  Hitherto, the same person had acted as secretary to  the Staff Association and also to the Appeals Board,  since in the latter capacity she was not likely to be  occupied for more than about two months in the year.  In (c) on page 227 provision was made for someone to  replace her as secretary to the Staff Association  when she was so engaged. The Director-General  was dissatisfied with the arrangement and intended to  allot responsibility for the Appeals Board to a  separate secretzry from within the Secretariat.
(2) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) felt that, since  Unesco was the only Specialized Agency to pay such  salaries, it was difficult for the Committee whole-  heartedly to endors. the practice. All it could do  was to say in its report that, since such salaries had  been paid over a period of several years, the  Committee felt unable to recommend a change.
(3) Mr, SOMMERFELT (Norway) said that the pay-  ment of such salaries was not in accordance with the  traditions of the northern countries; the Committee  should state in its report that it found the practice  unusual,
(4) The CHAIRMAN suggested that, in its report, the  Committee should draw attention to the fact that  Unesco was the only Specialized Agency to pay such  salaries, but that, since those salaries had been paid  over a period of years, the Committee felt that no  comments were appropriate,
(5) Miss LAISE (United States of America), agreeing  with the delegate of Norway, thought that it was dif-  ficult to draw an analogy between the United Nations  Staff Association and that of Unesco, and proposed  that the Committee recommend deletion of the item in  question,
(6) This proposal, seconded by the delegates of the  German Federal Republic and of Canada, was put to  the vote and adopted by 6 votes to 3, with 2 abstentions.  Education, paragraphs 143-146: International  Educational Development Fund
(7) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) read  out two draft resolutions which he submitted for the  consideration of the Committee.
(8) The first related to the possible establishment of  a United Nations Fund fur Economic Development,from  - 781 -   VI-21 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON  which loans or subventions could be granted for build-  ing and equipping schools and teachers training  colleges. The resolution would authorize the Director-  General, if the fund were not established, to consider  the possibility of Unesco's setting up a special inter-  national fund for educational development, and to that  end to submit proposals to the General Conference at  its rinth session.  {9) The second resolution was more general. Stating  that the development of free and compulsory educa-  tion had been recognized as a priority aim both by  the General Conference and by the Economic and  Social Council, it emphasized the need for consider-  able efforts at national as well as international level  in order to give effect to that priority. It outlined  the guiding principles which should underlie such  efforts: (1) States should take all administrative and  financial steps in their power to provide children with  free and compulsory schooling, and should study:  (a) their financial resources and means of increasing  the funds allotted to education; (b) their educational  theories, curricula and methods, with a view to  adapting them to national requirements and cultural  traditions, as well as to the development of interna-  tional understanding; (c) means of using the school  to help in economic and social development and in  securing a higher standard of living. (2) Unesco  should solicit the co-operation of the United Nations  and of certain Specialized Agencies in helping States  to take all necessary measures to expand free and  compulsory education. (3) Assistance provided in  that field should, as far as possible, be co-ordinated  with that supplied by the United Nations agencies, The  object of the resolution was to provide international  financial aid to Member States in overcoming the  main obstacle to the development of free and  compulsory education, namely shortage of funds.
(10) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) doubted whether  the Committee could "welcome the possibility of a  special United Nations Fund for Economic Develop-  ment’ as stated in the first draft resolution. What  likelihood was there of such a fund being created?
(11) It was agreed to resume discussion of the  matter when the two draft resolutions were both  available in written form.  General considerations and guiding lines on the report  of the Committee
(12) Miss LAISE (United States of America), refer-  ring to a point made earlier by the delegate of Egypt,  considered that the Committee's report should clear  up a widespread misconception in connexion with the  priority to be accorded to projects at the higher and  lower budget levels. In addition, the report should  emphasize that the Committee had tried to decide on  the activities which would require priority in 1955-56,  The Committee should express its concern at the  excessively rigid structure of the Secretariat, leading  to a certain top-heaviness, and at the reclassification  policy. Tuat was a matter which the Director-  General had agreed to study over the next two years,
(13) The report should mention that the Committee  was anxious for some reduction to be made in staff  cost and overheads. In 1952, a definite proposal    PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  had been made for the size of the staff. It was not  yet possible to determine what specific figure should  be recommended for 1955-56, since staff numbers  would depend on the decision still to be taken with  regard to decentralization of activities.
(14) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) emphasized that  the Committee must do its utmost to assist the Pro-  gramme and Administrative Commissions. He feared  that the Conference would raise the question of a  limit on the budget below the high budget level in the  Director-General's programme.
(15) The Committee had examined the programme  and budget and had been able to recommend the saving  of half a million dollars over the next two years, but  that sum was very nearly offset by additional costs.
(16) Annex V to the budget document contained a  table which might cause considerable concern to  national treasuries. The figures given for establisied  posts and salaries confirmed the need for a most care  ful scrutiny of staff costs, and items such as travel by  staff and delegates, printing, communication services  and subventions also required close examination. jt  might be well if the Committee, in its report, were to  summarize that table for the benefit of the Conference,
(17) There had been some criticism of Unesco in the  United Kingdorn, and the Committee had to do its ut-  most to ensure that Unesco should not be open to  attack on the score of excessive expenditure.
(18) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) said that Unesco was  criticized not because of its budget, but because the  mont y spent was not used to the best effect.
(19) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) agreed; it would be  difficult for the Committee, at the stage now reached,  to recommend any further reductions in expenditure.  It was true that staff costs had given rise to much  misunderstanding; possibly more caution might be  shown 1n the classification of posts. It would be  desirable for larger amounts to be devoted to  programme activities.
(20) Mr. LEE (United States of America) felt that,  besides providing facts and figures, the Committee  had to offer certain general remarks to help the Con-  ference. An attempt should be made to define what  the Committee hoped to achieve. The report should  indicate that certain activities (extension of elemen-  tary education, fundamental education, arid zone  research, and perhaps the strengthening of National  Commissions) deserved high priority, Although it was  not possible to go very far in expressing the wishes of  the Committee with regard to the activities of the  Secretariat in each of those fields, the Committee  might reaffirm its hope that some of those activities  would be completed with all possible despatch. Stress  should be laid on the Committee's desire to improve  the effectiveness of the programme,
(21) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) agreed with the  suggestions by the previous speaker. His country  thought there was some justification for a cau-  tious expansion of the programme, but was not  prepared to accept any large increase on its  contribution. Caution was required if Unesco  was to escape criticism.  - 782 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON
(22) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) thought 1t would  Le only too easy to obtain general agreement on the  importance of the various fields of activity enumera-  ted by the delegate of the United States of America;  it was doubtful if much was to be gained that way, The  report should bring out the responsibilities of  individual Member States, of the National Commis-  sions, and of the international non-governmental  orgamzations in furthering the work of Unesco.
(23) Mr. BOW (Canada), while understanding the  attitude of the delegate of India, was disappointed  that more progress had not been made in the direction  of further savings. The $500,000 saved were  almost counterbalanced by the cost of implementing  the new resolutions and of holding the next session of  the General Conference in India. Nevertheless,  although it might be too late to make really substan-  tial changes, “ie still hoped that the Committee would  succeed in submitting a helpful programme and budget  to the Conference, More work was required on the  question of which activities should be given the  greater emphasis, as suggested by the United States  delegation. It was probably too late to embark on a  detailed discussion of the methods whereby Unesco  set out to achieve 1ts aims, such as the Unesco  Coupon Scheme. He would suggest an additional  field which urgently required priority treatment -  that of cultural exchanges between East and West,
(24) The CHAIRMAN observed that the task of the  Committee was to analyse the programme proposals  and to check the accuracy of the estimates made. The  Committee had already divided projects into three  classes: high priority projects, projects on whichno  particular comment seemed called for, and low  priority projects. ‘That in itself was an achievement,
(25) Mr. CABOUAT (Rapporteur) noted that observa-  tions by members of the Committee referred (1) to  the main types of activities on which stress should be  laid, and (2) to the methods by which the Organization  should implement the programme. Such considera-  tions, arising out of the general discussion, were  more suitable for insertion in the introduction and  would not form the substance of the report. The  Rapporteur wondered whether the Committee, instead  of continuing along those lines, would not be better  advised to turn its attention to two essential questions,  the general balance of the programme as between the  several departments, and the remodelling of the  future programme. Once it had completed its study  of those two points, the Committee might come back  to the question of the form of its report.
(26) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) suggested that, within  each main field of Unesco activities, the Committee  might indicate certain priorities. Thus, in the field  of the natural sciences, first priority should be given  to the use of nuclear energy for peaceful ends, and a  secondary priority to the popularization of science.  In the field of culture, emphasis might be laid on  making the cultural heritage of both East and West  available to all. In the social sciences, an attempt  might be made to use knowledge not just 1or  academic ends, but for the elimination of  international tensions.  PROGRAMME AND BUDGET     VI-21
(27) The delegate of the United Kingdom had alluded  to the 1esponsibilities incumbent on Member States.  It was fashionable to say that States must pull their  weight, but he doubted whether that really helped to  solve the concrete problems with wh ch the world was  faced, The fact was that the world's resources were  unevenly distributed, and it was inevitable that they  should be to some extent redistributed by the interna-  tional agencies. He was not in favour, at teat stage,  of reopening the entire question with a view to  obtaining some definite budget ceiling,
(28) The CHAIRMAN, summing up, said that the  report would have to be a record of the work done  during the previous ten days. The introduction might  contain a preamble together with the conclusions  reached. It might suitably contain an exposition of  the Committee's views on the higher or lower budget  levels, of its decision not to take a- count of levels in  examining original proposals, ana of how the Director-  General had arrived at the total budget figure, The  report might go on to describe how the Committee hed  endeavoured to allot priorities to programmes on  which the Director-General had laid no particular  emphasis, and to outline the various categories of  priority. It was not, in his vle'', within the  Committee 's terms of reference to recommend a  budget figure.
(29) Mr. CABOUAT (Rapporteur) said that the plan  suggested by the United States delegate for the intro-  duction foliowed the same lines as he had himself  proposed to adopt, He considered that, after ten  days' discussion, it would be simple to seize upon  the broad principles which had guided the work of the  Committee and to summarize them in the introduction,  As he had already drafted a large part of the report,  leaving space for the question of the remodelling of  future programmes and that of the balance of the  budget, he hoped ‘he Committee would proceed to  discuss the next two items on its agenda.
(30) Requested by the CHAIRMAN for his views on  the discussions, Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Directer-  General) thought that everything that had been done  was reasonable. He felt that the introduction should  serve simply as an aid to the better understanding of  the body of the report; and it would seem logical to  place the conclusions at the end of the report. The  remarks of the United States delegate concerning the  structure of the Secretariat ‘ere entirely new, and  that matter did not seem to have been closely studied  by the Committee, The Assistant Director-General  said he would like to speak when the Committee came  to take a decision on that point.
(31; Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) suggested that  the main body of the report might be forwarded to the  Programme and Budget Commission so that the latter  could start work at once. Since the Committee had  examined the programme project by project, it was  difficult to discuss the question of the balance of the  programme. A report on remodelling of the  programme might be submitted later.
(32) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) agreed and  suggested that the first report to be submitted be  - 783 -   VI-22 ADVISORY  called the "First Report by the Advisory Committee,  As regarded the suggestions made by the United States  delegation concerning priorities, an attempt had been  made at the Florence Conference in 1950 to evolve a  basic Unesco programme, but it had proved exceed-  ingly difficult to define priority projects except in  the most general terms. No General Confe ence  would agree to restrict the prograinme to }.gn  priority items only. A more hopeful way might be  to examine the main sub-sections of the programme  and decide what items could be deleted.
(33) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) considered that the  Committee had accomplished its task by dividing the  various projects into three categories, with different  priorities, and that it had no more to do in that field.  He wondered whether it was really the province of  the Committee to intervene in regard to the deter-  mination of the tota! budget figure.
(34) Mr. BOW (Canada) thought that, while the Com-  mittee had been highly successful in its examination  of the programme, it had been less successful with  the budget. He could not agree that the Committee  should not make budgetary recommendations. It was,  after all, the Advisory Committee on Programme and  Budget.
(35) The CHAIRMAN observed that it was not the  task of the Committee to decide on a total figure for  the budget. That could only be fixed in terms of the  money which Member States were prepared to pro-  vide. The Committee had gone through the estimates  and tried to establish priorities which would enable  the Conference to fit the programme into whatever  budget was decided on. It was not the Committee's  task to decide on how many projects there should be  in 1855-56,
(36) Miss LAISE (United States of America) thought  that enough had been said to guide the Rapporteur. As  COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME     AND BUDGET  regarded the layout of the report, the conclusions  were apt to escape attention if appended at the end,  Better a short general discussion, followed by the  conclusions reached by the Committee, with the more  detailed consideration of the various items appended.
(37) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) differed from the  Chairman in feeling that the Committee ought to dis-  cuss budget totals, in order to facilitate the work of  the Programme ana Budget Commission,
(38) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that, while he  had not been able to foilow the work of the Committee  in great detail, it was his feeling that, although the  Committee was not a budget committee in the sense  that 1t ought to recommend a level of expenditure, it  had to inform the Programme and Budget Commission  of the cost of implementing the recommended pro-  gramme. He could promise the Committee every  assistance from the Secretariat in determining the  cost of carrying out the projects which the Committee  considered Unesco should undertake,
(39) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) suggested that the Com-  mittee issue its report, supplementing it with an  additional report if required.
(40) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt), seconded by Mr.  JUNANKAR (India), proposed that the question of re-  modelling should not be discussed at that stage, but  be dealt with in a later report.
(41) This proposal was put to the vote and adopted by
9 votes to 2, with 1 abstention.  The meeting rose at 7 p.m.  TWENTY - SECOND MEETING
15 November 1954 at 10 a.m.  Chairman: Mr. GARDNEP DAVIES (Australia)  REMODELLING OF THE FUTURE PROGRAMME OF UNESCO  «document 8C/PRG/13)
(1) The CHAIRMAN said that, in the last two meet-  ings, the Committee had been able to deal with this  matter only in the most general terms. lt was  important that the Programme and Budget  Commission should have the benefit of its views,
(2) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive    Board) said that, in November 1953, the Executive  Board had reviewed the progress made by Unesco.  There had been general agreement that Unesco had not  succeeded in securing the interest of Member States,  nor, in some cases, of intellectuals, to an adequate  degree, Nor had it made much impact on  the masses. It had been agreed that Unesco  could go further in regionalizing its work, not  in any geographical sense, but by common  treatment of countries with similar problems,  - 784 -