ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON  an international body with its own budget would be es-  tablished. He personaliy thought that body could not  be set up for three years, No promise could be given  in that connexion on behalf of the World Health Orga-  nization, which would probably seek to define the ex-  tent of its functions in the matter. but would not  consider collaborating in Unesco's project.
(117) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) shared the un-  certainty expressed by the delegate of Norway. The  lead in this matter should more properly be taken by  the World Health Organization. He recommended  deferment of the activity.
(118) Mr. BOW (Canada) asked whether the Executive  Board had recommended this activity before or after
1t had adopted its report on the remodelling of the  future programme,  NINTH     PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VI-9
(119) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Programme  and Budget) said that it had been discussed by the Exe-  cutive Board before and commented on (8C/5 Add, 1,  paragraph 12) with interest,
(120) Mr. LEE (United States of America) did not  consider the comment made by the Executive Boarc in
8C/5 Add.1 a very convincing expression of support.  That argued for deferment. He suggested that the  Department of Natural Sciences should find out what  organizations were interested, and make a fuller  statement of the situation to the next General  Conference in two years time.
(121) The discussion was deferred to the next  meeting.  The meeting rose at 12,50 p.m.  MEETING
5 November 1954 at 3.X p.m.  Chairman : Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Australia)  ITEM 1.2 OF THE AGENDA: PRELIMINARY CONSIDERATION  OF THE DRAFT PROGRAMME AND BUDGET FOR 1955-36,  BEFORE THE OPENING OF THE SESSION (continued)  NATURAL SCIENCES (continued)  Project 2.22: Assistance to scientific research  Paragraphs 101 and 102 (continued)
(1) The CHAIRMAN invited the Chairman of the Exe-  cutive Board to state the Board's views on the  proposed campaign.
(2) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive  Board) said that the Executive Board had givencare-  ful consideration to the subject and had agreed, first,  that the World Health Organization should be consul-  ted before a decision was taken and, second, that the  views of the Advisory Committee on Research in the  Natural Sciences programme should be ascertained.  As a result of WHO's agreement to participate and  the Advisory Committee's strong support, the Exe-  cutive Board had unanimously approved the project.  It was clear, from conversations with experts in the  United States of America and the United Kingdom,  that there was a lack of contact between the medical  and the scientific sides of the problem, and that the  results of scientific research were not transmitted to  doctors rapidly enough. The Executive Board fav-  oured the project in the hope of ameliorating the si-  tuation and helping to remove one of the serious caus-  es of misery in the world. There was a strong    dividing line between scientists! research on cell  growth and the work of doctors, and it was cssential  that Unesco and WHO should be closely linked in the  project.
(3) The CHAIRMAN recalled that at the previous meet-  ing the United Kingdom delegate, supported by the de-  legates vf Norway and the United States of America,  had proposed that the project be postponed,
(4) In reply to a question by the delegate of Israel, Sir  Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive Board) said  that the project would be a joint one between Unesco  and WHO, since the closest collaboration between the  scientific and medical sides was needed.
(5) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) questioned the use of the  word "campaign".
(6) The CHAIRMAN, speaking as delegate of Austral  ia, also considered the title of the project misleading  The dividing line was clear: cancer, being a health  problem, concernad WHO, while research on cell  growth was a scientific matter and therefore concern-  ed Unesco. He proposed amending the title to "Basic  research un cell growth and related problems”.
(7) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) favoured the wording "Study of normaland  abnormal cell growth", which he thought would satisfy  WHO. The Committee should, however, note that  this new title implied a change of attitude and that  it would be well to make quite sure that the,  - 695 -   vI-9 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON  project still fitted in with the Execulive Board's  intentions.
(8) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive  Board) remarked that the title had arisen out of a  press conference at Unesco House. Since Unesco's  work alone did not represent a campaign. he proposed  amending the title to "Unesco's part in the Campaign  against Cancer",
(9) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) said  that WHO had so far not committed itself; thatbody's  chief concern was to make sure that Unesco was not  undertaking projects which came witkin its own sphere,
(10) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) asked for an as-  surance that cancer was not one of the subjects al-  ready being investigated by bodies affiliated to the  International Council of Scientific Unions.
(11) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) replied that cell growth was a subject dealt  with by the International Union of Biological Sciences,  a body affiliated to ICSU, and also by the newly-foun-  ded International Union of Physiology, which was  shortly to be admitted to ICSU. But ir either case it  was only one of their respective interests and Unesco  could perfectly well undertake an investigation of this  phenomenon in its relation to cancer, in agreement  with the two unions. Research into cell growth was  als~ nf the utmost interest to the International Union  against Cancer. Under the new arrangernents which  it was proposed to set up, contacts should be estab-  lished with all these unions with a view to studying a  specific problem not directly dealt with by any of  them.
(12) Mr. LEE (United States of America) recognized  the desirability of further investigation, but said that  it was necessary to study what had already been done  by other bodies. He proposed that the project should  be struck out and the next two years he devoted to in-  vestigation by the Secretariat with a view to providing  a better basis on which to formulate an approach to the  problem.
(13) Asked by the CHAIRMAN, Mr. COWELL (United  Kingdom) said that he would accept the United States  delegate's proposal as mecting his own wishes.
(14) Sir Ronald ADAM (Cnairman of the Executive  Board) said that the Advisory Committee on Research  in the Natural Sciences programme had been strongly  in support of the project. That Committee was  aware of the problems, and the strength of its sup-  port indicated the possibility of effective work  starting at once.
(15) The CHAIRMAN asked whether a document  existed on the Advisory Committee's discussions,
(16) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General  said that the views of the Advisory Com-  mittee were embodied in a document which  had not yet been reproduced but could be  read to the Committee.    PROGRAMIIE AND BUDGET
(17) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natura}  Sciences) vanted to make it clear that, if project B  were struck out and the Secretariat were simply in-  structed to continue what it was doing, 1t could hardly  make any teadway in the matter without a budget ap-  propriatior for consultation with experts. He sugges  ted that, rather than simply strike out paragraphs 101  and 102 frcm the programme, they should, if the idea  cf holding the constituent meeting proposed for 1958  were dropped, make provision at least for a meeting  of experts,
(18) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) expressed his support  for the views of the Chairman of the Executive Board,  The projec’ would provide an opportunity for scientists  to cullaboriite in solving an important problem; more-  over it had been approved by a body which, knowing  the problenis involved, considered that research could  be undertalen at the present stage.
(19) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) r zad out the Adviscry Committee's recom-  mendation ind pointed out that its second paragraph  reflected wwat he had said about the responsibilities of  each of the two organizations.
(20) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) asked if any information  was availatle on what WHO had been doing in the field  of cancer.
(21) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) d .d not think WHO had taken any major action  in the matter.
(22) Mr. AYIDOR (Israel) proposed that the project  be deferred for one year to allow time for negotiation  with WHO, that the conference be held in 1956 with the  collaboration of WHO and the budget allocation for
1955 be traisferred to 1956, the 1956 provision being  deleted.
(23) Mr. EOW (Canada) recalled that it had been  originally proposed to defer the project in the interests  of concentrating the programme, and could not recon-  cile the Executive Board's recommendation on con-  centration ‘with its approval of a new project, In any  case he corsidered that such a project should be in-  spired by the World Health Organization. Without  wishing to detract from its importance, the Canadian  delegation supported the proposal to defer the project.
(24) There being no seconder for the delegate of  Israel's proposal, the proposal of the United Kingdom  delegate was put to the vote ar adopted by 8 votes to
4 with no abstentions.  Project 2.31: Dissemination of science
(25) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  " Sclences) said that the proposed activities might give  an impression of greater dispersion than those in the  section on scientific research. The fact was that  there were many ways of disseminating science,hence  a whole range of projects as varied as: project A,  concerned with general scientific information the ob-  ject of which was to secure the publication of informæ  tion on scientific subjects, project B on travelling  - 696 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VI-9  science exhibitions, another channel of disseminatiun,  etc. Project 2,31 comprised a wide variety of acti-  vities, each of which required to be judged separately.  For 1955-56 the programme was primarily one of re-  search; a well thought out programme of action could  not be presented until 1957-58.
(26) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) regretted that  sales of the peric.ical Impact of Science on Society  were not very satisfactory, in spite of favourable  opinion on its quality. He asked whether there was  any additional information on its financial success  since the preparation of the budget.
(27) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) said that, though Impact was not, strictly  speaking, a financial success, it had been repeatedly  referred to in terms of warm appreciation in such  important publications as the British periodical  Nature, a well-known science publication of high star  dard, The Scientific American and Discovery. The  non-specialized press also took it seriously, particu-  larly in the United States cf America, That seemed  to prove that Impact was dealing successfully with  subjects of vital interest.
(28) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) suggested that,  since the object of the publication was to secure wide  circulation of views, it would be better to include the  articles of Impact in the periodical publications of the  Department of Mass Communication,
(29) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)point-  ed out that the success of any publication had to be  considered from two angles, quantitative and qualita-  tive. Obviously, the articles appearing in Impact  could be distributed much more widely by the Depart-  ment of Mass Communication, but Impact was aimed  at a special public, not very large in numbers but in-  fluential in political, business and administrative  circles, Anexample of whathe meant was the publica-  tion in Impact of an article on the organization of the  "Parliamentary and Scientific Committee" of the  United Kingdom, which article had led to the forma-  tion of a similar parliamentary committee in France.  The latter committee had had a great deal to do with  the recent establishment of an Under-Secretaryship of  State for Scientific Research. That might properly  be considered a success for Impact.
(30) Answering a question by the delegate of Israel,  Mr. AUGER(Director, Department of Natural Sciences,  said that there were 290 subscribers to the English  edition of Impact and 120 to the French edition, total  sales per issue being 560 copies in English and 200in  French. In addition,761 copies of the English edition  and 422 copies of the French edition were sent free of  charge by the Secretariat to addresses on a special  distribution list,  Paragraphs 123-139
(31) Mr. AUGER read paragraph 128 and outlined the  origin of the project. A few years back Unesco had  published a compendium of plans for the low-costpro-  duction of simple apparatus for the teaching of science.  This publication had been an immense success,    especially in India and it was in response to an explicit  request that Unesco had planned to publish a second  compendium on the construction, furnishing and equip-  ment of laboratories, which the Secretariat felt was a  needed sequel to the first collection,
(32) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) supported Mr. Auger's  statement, The designs were most useful, and his  country had already started an experimental scheme  for manufacturing equipment based on the drawings.
(33) Mr. BOW (Canada) asked which were the three  countries mentioned in paragraph 136 as wishing to  develop education in nuclear physics and cosmic rays,  and whether it was an essen‘ial project.
(34) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) said that paragraphs 135-139 dealt with a  programme of technical aid to Member States in the  domain of science teaching. As some States had re-  quested technical aid for teaching about nuclear phy-  sics and cosmic rays - which could not be shewn to  have any direct impact on their economic develop-  ment - the project had been included in the natural  science programme. Ecuador and Pakistan should be  added to the list of States seeking such aid.  Project 2.41: Science co-operation offices(paragraphs
(35) The CHAIRMAN suggested postponing a general  discussion of the policy aspects of decentralizationun-  tal the whole programme had been studied. It might,  however, be useful to examine specific details at the  present stage,
(36) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) pointed out that the science co-operation of-  fices, which had originally been bodies for the exchange  of information, had evolved into organs for executing  the Unesco p! ogramme in distant countries. The  activities set out in project 2.41 had a direct connex-  ion with the programme work of the Department.
(37) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) asked what were the acti-  vities of the regional centres and whether they could  not be carried out by headquarters in co-operation  with National Commissions.
(38) The CHAIRMAN said that questions of that nature  should be considered under decentralization of the  programme as a whole.
(39) Following an exchange of views on the advantages  of this kind of procedure, Mr. MAHEU (Assistant  Director-General) suggested that, to overcome the  difficulty, they agree that, for the examination of the  proposals submitted in the project, the Committee  proceed as though it accepted the principle of region-  alization and that they hold over consideration of the  actual principle of maintaining regional offices for the  general discussion of the programme.
(40) The CHAIRMAN said that it would not be pos-  sible for members who had doubts on decentraliza-  tion to join in the discussion at the present stage,  but there could be an exchange of views on  - 697 -   vI-9 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  specific details by those who approved the Dir-  ector-General's approach.
(41) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) suggested that a working  party be set up during the Conference to study the de-  centralization of Unesco's activities and report at the  end of the Conference. The science co-operation of-  fices could then be considered in relation to the gener-  al problem of decentralization and its organizational  aspects.
(42) Mr. LEE (United States of America) said that it  was important to consider the overall use of funds for  natural sciences. He would prefer a lower priority  for the science co-operation offices and suggested that  any savings might be applied elsewhere, for example  to the section on the teaching of science.
(43) The CHAIRMAN said that it would be quite pro-  per to discuss prierities within the chapter on Natural  Sciences without prejudging the general discussion of  decentralization,
(44) Mr. BOW (Canada) agreed with the delegate of  the United States' point concerning budgetary consi-  derations, but did not approve of relating a decision  on priority to the release of funds for another project,
(45) The CHAIRMAN explained that the United States  delegate had only been concerned wiih priorities  within the natural sciences programme.
(46) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) was against the proposal  of the delegate of the United States of America. He  felt that, if the science co-operation offices were con  tinued, they should be provided with the requisite  means to do their work. Until such time as the Cor  ference decided to abolish them or to diminish their  functions, they must retain the priority they were  previously given.
(47) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) considered that the  Question of vriorities should be studied within the  general problem of decentralization, of which it was  only one aspect.
(48) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) agreed with the delegate of  India. It was surely logical to discuss general.policy  before making decisions on details.
(49) Mr. LEE (United States of America) withdrew  his proposal and the CHAIRMAN deferred to the view  that discussion should be postponed.
(50) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) saw the science  co-operation offices, not as a project proper but ra-  ther as part of Unesco's administrative machinery  for effective implementation of the programme, and  considered that they should be discussed not as part  of the natural sciences programme but as an aspect  of the implementation of Unesco's task as a whole.
(51) Mr. RANIERI (Uruguay) agreed with the delegate  of Mexico and felt that the same views were held by  all the countries of the Americas, This was the only  service which Unesco maintained in that region and  strong arguments for its retention were its accessibility    and the fact that there was à common language over  most of the region and that problems were similar  throughout. He asked the Committee to maintain the  present priority.
(52) The CHAIRMAN asked whether the Committee  wished to defer discussion until the end of the pro-  gramme and budget document.
(53) It was so agreed, Mr. BOW (Canada) requesting  that budgetary considerations should be included.  Summary Tables (paragraphs 185-198)
(54) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that it had been  agreed to defer discussion of the Director's office to  the comparative examination at the end of the  document.
(55) Mr. LEE (United States of America) said ? iat in  that case it would be better to defer discussion of the  Staff Tables as a whole,
(56) The CHAIRMAN replied that it would be appro-  priate to discuss the staff in connexion with the  programmes already approved.
(57) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) asked why, un-  de - International Co-operation in Scientific Research,  there were two P-5 posts in 1954 but only one for
(58) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) explained that the Division of International  Co-operation on Scientific Research had the same  number of posts in 1955 as in 1954, the abolition of a  P-5 post having been offset by the establishment of a  post at a lower grade. What had happened was that a  post of Head of Division had hecome redundant as a  result of subventions be.ng passed in a lump sum to  ICSU, which undertook to distribute those funds. As  a result of this simplification one Head of Division was  enough and it had been possible to establish a post at  a lower grade for the work involved in developing the  programme.
(59) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) suggested that any decision  to make changes in the science co-operation offices  (paragraph 196) might result in increasing headquar-  ters staff.
(60) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) explained that the staff listed in that para-  graph included those at headquarters dealing with  regional affairs.
(61) The CHAIRMAN explained that the delegate of Is-  rael foresaw that, if the science co-operation offices  were suppressed, it might be necessary to strengthen  headquarters staff to maintain the work,  CHAPTER 3: SOCIAL SCIENCES
(62) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences) said that the development of Social Scien-  ces in the international field had been initiated by  - 698 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VIi-9  Unesco. It was hoped that they could Le used in solw  ing some of the difficult problems of the day.
(63) For the years 1955-56 the Department of Social  Sciences was organized in the same way as other de-  partments, namely in two main sections: permanent  and general services and special projects. An out-  line was given in paragraph 10. In Section I the main  theme was stabilization, the only major addition being  the Unesco Institute in Cologne, In Section II the  main theme was concentration. There were five ma-  jor projects listed. Unesco's work in the social  sciences field was closely related to the interests of  the United Nations and the other Specialized Agencies.
(64) With regard to the discussion of field and region  al offices, there were two offices in existence, in the  Middle East and Asia, as indicated in paragraphs 16-
24, With a view to meeting the expressed require-  ments of Member States, it was envisaged that ‘ue  Asian office might in 1956 be integrated in the pro-  posed International Centre for Research on Social  Problems of Industrialization.
(65) The CHAIRMAN asked for general discussion  before the programme was considered in detail.
(66) Mr. BOW (Canada) was concerned at the large  budgetary increase for 1955-56 and did not think it  was the right time for expanding activities. The pro-  posed projects were all valuable, but it was necessary  to select and evaluate. He questioned the subventions  in Section I, involving an increase of about $50,000;  and with regard to Section I suggested selecting the  two most important of the five major pros :ts and de-  ferring the others until sufficient progress had been  made to demonstrate the valv of the activities and  perhaps obtain support and funds by a public appeal.  He did not approve of the proposed expansion of acti-  vities under Section II and would prefer to see con-  centration on more important activities in other chap-  ters: for example, transfers might be made to the  Exchange of Persons Service.
(67) Finally, a high priority should be given to re-  quests from Member States, since they were the jud-  ges of what assistance was needed and of how it would  be best administered.
(68) Mr. FREY (German Federal Republic) favoured  more emphasis on work in Section 11, for example  projects 3.5 and 3.6, and less on documentation and  terminology.
(69) The CHAIRMAN, in reply to the delegate of  Canada, said that changes in the budgetary balance  and priorities between departments could only be dis-  cussed when the whole programme and budget had  been dealt with.  Project 3.11: Co-operation with international social  science organizations and institutions (paragraphs
(70) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of  Social Sciences) said that the increase in  subventions mentioned by the Canadian dele-  gate was mainly due to the annual grant of  $32,000 to the Unesco Institute for Social  Sciences, Cologne.
(71) Mr. BOW (Canada) said that, with the exception  of the International Union of Scientific Psychology,all  subventions showed an increase. After studying the  explanation and document 8C/ADM/20, he was not cor  vinced that there had been adequate evaluation of acti-  vities to support the increases or that the criteria for  subventions were correctly applied. He proposed  that the subventions be stabilized at the 1953-54 level.
(72) The CHAIRMAN drew attention to the list of sub-  ventions and comparative table for 1953-54 and 1955-
56 in Annex I on page 233.
(73) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General} be-  leived that the remarks of the deleg2tc of Canada did  not apply to the Unesco Institute for Social Sciences,  for which a figure of $32,000 was shown in the hst of  organizations which received subventions through the  Department of Social Sciences. He had already ex-  plained why the Secretariat had made provision for a  subvention for this Institute and the other two Unesco  Institutes in Germany; the Cologne Institute, therefore,  should be omitted in any comparison between the  financial years 1953-54 and 1955-36,
(74) In reply to a question from the CHAIRMAN, Mr.  BOW (Canada) said that he was proposing that, with  the exception of the Unesco Institute for Social Sciences,  Cologne, subventions should be retained at the 1953-
(75) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) pointed out thatthe  social sciences were less developed than other Unesco  activities, and the Secretariat had been urged to en-  courage development. It was not reasonable, there -  fore, to compare the Department of Social Sciences  with other departments.
(76) In reply to a question from the delegate of Israel  on the reasons for the increase in subventions, Mrs,  MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences)  explained that they were due to items formerly repre-  sented as contracts, which were now considered as  subventinns, In the majority of cases the increase in  subventions was offset by the reduction in contracts,  and the only real increase was in the case of the Inter-  national Science Council, whose subvention had been  raised from $15,000 to $18,000, because it was a  young organization showing rood progress and needing  additional funds on account of wider geographical cov-  erage. Unesco had given contracts to the organiza-  tions concerned for specific subjects to be discussed  at their congresses; such special projects, however,  were precluded by the concentration approach, and it  had been decided to replace contracts by an increase  in subventions, which in many cases resulted in an  ultimate saving.
(77) The CHAIRMAN said that he would welcome more  clarification and asked if the Acting Head, Bureau of  Programme and Budget ,could give comparative figures  of conventions and contracts for the periods 1953-54 and
(718) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Pro  gramme and Budget) said that it would be  difficult to supply complete information at the  - 699 -   vI-9 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  present stage, since it was not yet known what con-  tracts would be given and to which organizations.
(79) The CHAIRMAN said that it was important for  the Canadian delegate to have some comparison be-  tween the two periods, in view of his proposal to  stabilize subventions at the 1953-54 level.
(80) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) agreed  that, as Mr. Rao had explained, it was difficult at  that stage to foresee what contracts would be conclu-  ded and with whom. Would Mr. Rao say, however,  whether, leaving the other organizations aside, he  could not make the comparison suggested between the  two financial periods for the two organizations which  had had a very substantial increase - the International  Statistical Institute, where the figure had risen from  $5,000 to $14,000 and the International Committee on  Social Science Documentation, which showed an  increase from $3,000 to $9,000?
(81) Mr. BOW (Canada) asked whether the Interna-  tional Statistical Centre at Beirut would become self-  supporting or whether Unesco woula continue to  provide assistance,  i82) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences) said that the International Statistical Insti-  tute, which was provided with $8,000 annually to set  up training institutions in different areas, followed a  policy of encouraging the host country to contribute  on an increasing scale. For example, an institution  set up in Calcutta in 1950 was now supported by the  Indian Government and received no more funds from  the International Institute. In the case of the region  al training centre set up at Beirut in 1852-53, con-  tributions from the Lebanese Government and private  foundations would enable the International Institute to  withdraw gradually from its financial responsibility,
(83) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Programme  and Budget) said that the $8,000 contract with the In-  ternational Statistical Institute in 1953-54, added to  the subvention of $5,000, accounted for the sum of  $14,000 for the years 1955-56, With regard to the  International Committee on Social Science Documen-  tation, the contract amounts of $8,150 for 1953 and  $4,950 for 1954 gave a total of $13,100, which, if.  offset against the increase of $12,000 in the subven-  tion for 1955-36, gave a net reduction of $1,100.
(84) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) point-  ed out that, in the case of the two associations whose  subventions, on paper, had had a spectacular rise,  there was in fact no increase in the total sum supplied  by Unesco.
(85) Mr. BOW (Canada) said that one of his objections  to subventions was the loss of control over funds. He  could not understand the reason for the change from  contracts to subventions.
(86) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Programme  and Budget) explained that the definition had been  made to prevent any overlap between the purposes  for which the subventions were given and the purposes  for which Unesco should receive services. As to the    question of control, all proposals for subventions were  submitted to the Executive Board for examination,
(87) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) assumed that subventions  were not earmarked for special activities.
(88) The CHAIRMAN asked why the subvention to the  International Statistical Institute was directed to a  specific rather than a general purpose, namely the  maintenance of centres,
(89) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences) said that the description of the activities for  which the subvention was given was to encourage the  improvement of statistical training in various 1egions  of the world. Developments were watched closely  and there was constant consultation between the Exe-  cutive Committee of the International Institut: -..l the  Secretariat over any new steps. Tasks to te under-  taken were set out in the annual requests for subven-  tions submitted to the Executive Board.
(90) The CHAIRMAN asked whether Unesco had any  guarantee that the funds would in fac: be used for the  purpose for which they were intended, If so, a con-  tract would be the normal procedure, under the cri-  terion explained by Mr. Rao.
(91) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Programme  and Budget), referring to paragraphs 84-87 of the  Technical Explanation, recognized the validity of the  Chairman's comment, The Secretariat had had to  give much consideration to the question of clarifying  the difference between contracts and subventions. The  change had been made because in a contract the main  responsibility fell on the contractor.
(92) Mr. BOW (Canada) still saw some loss of con-  trol of funds under the subvention system as opposed  to the contract system. If organizations undertook  specific assignments for Unesco, then a contract  should be given in accordance with the policy describ-  ed by the Acting Head, Bureau of Programme and  Budget. If not, subventions should be stabilized as  he had already proposed.
(93) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) point-  ed out that, while it was quite true that Unesco's con-  trol over funds was less stringent in the case of sub-  ventions than in that of contracts, such control never-  theless existed. The Committee was dealing with a  marginal case and, if the delegate of Canada wanted  tne subvention to the International Statistical Institute  to take the form of a contract, the Secretariat would  not object,
(94) The CHAIRMAN recalled that the Programme  and Budget Commission at the seventh session of the  General Conference had recommended the use of  contracts wherever possible.
(95) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Burcau of Program  me and Budget) said that it would be pos-  sible to reconsider the interpretation in the  case of the International Statistical Institute  and give a contract, in accordance with the  views of the Canadian delegate.  - 700 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET vi-9
(86) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) understo3d that the Inter-  national Statistical Institute had given a written as-  surance to Unesco that the $14 400 would be used for  establishing centres. As, hrwever, the Unesco con-  tribution was only a proportion of the budget of sach  centre, it was surely a subvention.
(97) Mr. CABOUAT (France), speaking as Rappor-  teur, asked whether the Committee was going to stand  by the interpretation in figures given in the program-  me or whether the question of the category in which  these appropriations would appear was still undecided  he had to insert a note to that effect in his report.
(98) The CHAIRMAN asked for a formal proposal  from the Canadian delegate.
(99) Mr. BOW (Canada) proposed that the first six  subventions in Annex I (p.233) be stabilized at the
1953-54 level and that the next two (see paragraphs
44 and 45, and 46-50) be reduced by a comparable  amount.
(100) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) said  that the Canadian delegate's proposal was tantamount  to asking that the subventions which had been increas-  ed be brought back to the 1954 level - a perfectly  legitimate request - but the delegate was also asking  that the subventions which had not been increased  should be reduced in the same proportions. In his  (the speaker's) view, if that proposal was to make  sense, 1t should apply Only to the first five organiza-  tions 1n the list whose subventions had been increased,  without the justification being offered that subventions  had replaced contracts.
(101) The CHAIRMAN said that the s.abilization of  the proposed subventions would apply only to the first  five organizations concerned.
(102) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) suggested as an alterna-  tive wording that the organizations should receive in
1955-56 not more than they had received in 1953-54  through subventions and contracts.
(103) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) re-  marked that the delegate of Israel had spoken of what  the organizations "received". Where a contract was  concerned, no one was "given" anything; the funds  passed in return for services rendered. There was  therefore no gift by Unesco. He asked the Israeli  delegate not to press his proposal.
(104) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) withdrew his proposal,
(105) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) asked whether the Cana-  dian delegate 's proposal affected five only of the six  organizations under discussion; in other words, whe-  ther the International Statistical Institute was not  covered by the proposal.
(106) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) re-  plied that the Canadian delegate's proposal was to  keep the first five organizations at the previous level,
(107) Mr. CABOUAT (France) said that, as far asthe  tive organizations were concerned for which a reduction    had been proposed, it was not a case of contracts hav-  ing been converted into subventions. He would like to  know on what grounds the Secretariat had proposed the  increases in question.
(108) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) said  that the increases had been suggested for tworeasons:  firstly, some of the bodies in question were newly-  established and were still inthe growing stage; secondly,  all of them were expanding their networks through-  out the world, thus becoming more international; the  numbers of their national branches were rising, which  entailed larger expenditure.
(109) The CHAIRMAN thought that the Assistant Dir-  ector-General's view did not al.uw for the eventual ir-  dependence of organizations receiving subventions.
(110) He asked whether there was any support for the  Canadian delegate's proposal.
(111) Mr. CABOUAT (France) thought that the De-  partment of Social Sciences, more than any other de-  partment in Unesco, needed, for the pursuit of its  activities, the certainty of progressively increasing  financial support. The French delegation would vote  in favour of the proposed budget.
(112) Mr. BOW (Canada) agreed with the views ex-  pressed by the delegate of France.
(113) There being no <econder for the Canadian pro-  posal, the CHAIRMAN asked for comments on  paragraphs 43-45,
(114) No comments.  Project 3.12: Clearing house for information and ad-  visory service (paragraphs 55-70)
(115) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences) said that the two major items concerned  were the International Social Science Bulletin and the  Clearing House. The Bulletin was the only multi-  disciplinary internaticnal bulletin being published for  the social sciences; it appeared in two languages and  was receiving ever-increasing recognition, The  Clearing House was small, but its work was now ex-  tended to cover also what had in earlier years been  the subject of a separate project on "promntion of  research",
(116) No comment,  Project 3.13: Improvement of social science docu-  mentation and terminology (paragraphs 71-90)
(117) Mr. BOW (Canada) asked whether the Interna-  tional Bibliography of Anthropology referred to in  paragraph 82 was an essential project for 1955-56, It  would need a large outlay and he considered it anitem  on which savings could be made,
(118) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway), referring to the  same paragraph, pointed out that the sum of $23,170  covered five bibliographies. He considered biblio-  graphies most important and welcomed particularly  the one on anthropology, which would fill a long-standing  ~ 701 -   vI-0 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON  gap. He wondered, however, why the cost was so  high, amounting to between $4,000 and $5,000 for  each one, and said that similar work had been done in  his country at a cost of $2,000.
(119 Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences) said that Unesco, in collaboration with as-  sociations representing the various disciplines, had  been investigating the need for international bibliogra-  phies and had decided to cover the main fields by  bibliographies but leave abstracts to the responsibili-  ty of voluntary organizations. The anthropological  bibliography was of great interest for technical assist-  ance and other missions abroad. There was also a  big demand from anthropologists themselves,
(120) With regard to the costs, the International Po-  litical Science and International Economic bibliogra-  phies had contracts of $2,000 each and those for  Sociology and Anthropology $3,000 each, since an-  thropology covered a very wide field and the publica-  tion on Current Sociology contained trend reports in  addition to an annual bibliography.  Project 3.2: Statistics relating to education, science  and culture (paragraphs 91-112)
(121) Mr, CABOUAT (France) was prepared to agree  to the Unesco Statistical Service being administered  by the Department of Social Sciences. As, however,  this was a division serving several departments, he  would like to have an analysis showing the proportions  of the appropriation allocated for servicing each  individual department involved.
(122) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) said  that Mr. Cabouat's point would be borne in mind when  they discussed the final percentages of the departmental  budgets.  Project 3.3: Development of social science teaching  (paragraphs 113-139)
(123) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences) said that a fact-finding survey had been  conducted ineight countries and published in an1mpor-  tant series, now containing 8 volumes. It was pro-  posed to supplement it by smaller surveys on subjects  of great practical importance but not constituting in-  dependent disciplines recognized by universities. In
1954 action in the regions had included three highly  successful seminars, in Delhi, Costa Rica and Damas-  cus, and the proposals in paragraphs 124-129 were  the results of definite recommendations from those  regions. A seminar in the southern part of Latin  America was planned for countries which had not been  able to attend the one in Costa Rica.
(124) With regard to technicai aid to Member States,  twenty-two requests for missions had been received,  of which four had been met, Missions were planned  for 1955-56 to help countries needing assistance in  building up sociai s.ience teaching at university and  secondary school levels. It was hoped at a later  stage to concentrate more on teaching aids.  Project 3,4. Social science and problems of internatica-  al understanding and tensions (paragraphs 140-163)
(125) Mrs. Myrdal said that the project represented    PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  the continuation of studies in which Unesco had been  interested since its inception, It was hoped to pursue  investigations in 1955-56 with a view to finding positive  means of reaching agreement and averting conflicts. It  was also hoped to make use of public opinion polls to  ascertain public opinion about Unesco, the United  Nations and their ideals.
(126) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) said that the  United Kingdom National Commission doubted the ad-  visability of the use of public opinion polls proposed in  paragraph 152 and of the guides on "How to read the  news" referred to in paragraph 156. He proposed  that paragraphs 152-156 inclusive be given a lower  priority,
(127) Mr. LEE (United States of America) said that  the National Commission in his country appreciated  the importance of international understanding but were  not entirely satisfied with Unesco's programe tnthat  field. The Advisory Committee on Education for Liv  ing in a World Community was at present meeting in  Paris and he proposed that discussion be deferred so  that the programme could be modified in the light of  the Committee's recommendations.
(128) Mr. RANIERI (Uruguay) enquired whether the  report for publication in 1957 mentioned in paragraph
150 would be issued in Spanish.
(129) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences), in reply to the delegate of Uruguay, said  that no decision had yet been made on the question of  languages. With regard to paragraphs 152-157, Unes-  co had been promised valuable assistance by public  opinion institutes 1n various countries. It was the first  opportunity Unesco had of including questions in the  public opinion polls and it would be an indirect means  of encouraging public interest in the Organization and  its work. It was, moreover, of great financial value  to have these services free, since it was extremely  costly to conduct a public opinion poll.
(130) The CHAIRMAN asked whether the delegate of  Uruguay had referred to the report to be published in
1955, mentioned in paragraph 148, or to the publica-  tion of material referred to in paragraph 150.
(131) Mr. RANIERI (Uruguay) said that the report he  meant was the one mentioned in paragraph 150, arising  out of paragraph 148, on the development of interna-  tional law since the end of the nineteenth century.
(132) Mr. CABOUAT (France) said that the French  National Commission regarded projects 3.5 (the social  sciences and problems of human rights and minorities  and 3.6 (social sciences and problems of social de-  velopment) as important and would like them to have.  priority over the project on public acceptance or re-  Jection of the principles of Unesco and the United Na-  tions which - though it would not go quite as far asthe  delegate of the United Kingdom - his own Commission  regarded as a much less important project.
(133) The CHAIRMAN asked for a seconder to the pro-  posal of the United Kingdom delegate that the priority  of paragraphs 152-156 be reduced.  - 702 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VI-9
(134) The proposal of the United Kingdom delegate,  seconded by the Norweg:an delegate, was adopted by
7 votes to nil with 4 abstentions.  Project 3.5: The social sciences and problems of  human rights and minorities (paragraphs 164-190)
(135) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences) said that there were three main headings  under human rights and minority groups- racial pre-  Judice and discrimination; women; migrants. Much  work had been done under the first heading and 220,000  copies of pamphlets with informational material had  been distributed, She drew attention to a corrigen-  dum relating to paragraphs 178 and 179, which had  been written in the expectation that the International  Conference on Race Relations meeting in Honolulu  would recommend that Unesco take on a continuing  responsibility for co-ordination of research in that  field: in fact, it had set up an International Society  for further studies, Unesco's contribution would be  most valuable in the form of clearing house activities.
(136) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) expressed the Mexican  National Commission's satisfaction with the quality of  the booklets so far published on human rights,questions  of racial discrimination and the protect.on of minori-~  ties. These excellent publications deserved to be  treated as of the highest importance and to be given  top priority.
(137) Mr. BOW (Canada) seconded the proposal of the  Mexican delegate, The Canadian authorities consi-  dered the pamphlets on racial relations among the  best of Unesco's publications,
(138) Mr. CABOUAT (France) endorsed the remarks  of the delegate of Canada and supported the motion of  the delegate of Mexico.
(139) The proposal of the delegate of Mexico that a  higher priority should be given to the project cn hu-  man rights and minorities was put to the vote and  adopted unanimously.
(140) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom), referring to  paragraphs 178 and 179 as amended, asked for an as-  surance: that similar activities were not performed by  the Carnegie Foundation.
(141) Mrs, MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences) said that there were no such clearing house  activities within the Carnegie Foundation.
(142) Mr. LEE (United States of America) asked that  the Secretariat should take account, in its future pr&  grammes on women's political rights and political  education, of a project in the Near East being  undertaken by the Ford Foundation.  Project 3.6: Social sciences and problems of social  development (paragraphs 191-215)
(143) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences) said that the project was a major one inthe  field of applied social sciences. Contributions from  both theoretical and applied social science were made    to the work of the United Nations and the other Specia-  lized Agencics, particularly in relation to technical  assistance. Paragraphs 207, 208 and 209 related Lu  regional action in the form of symposia in three dif -  ferent parts of the world. A new feature was that  regional seminars were to be undertaken, 1n co-opera-  tion with international professional organizations such  as the International Sociological Association, the In-  ternational Economic Association and with intergov-  ernmental agencies, 1,e., the Food and Agriculture  Organization and the Economic Commission for Asia  and the Far East as well as for Latin America.
(144) Mr. CABOUAT (France) said that the French  National Commission attached great importance to  Unesco's studies. of the impact of technological change  and industrialization on countries in process of devel-  opment. On bel alf of his National Commission, he  supported the mejority of the projects under this head  and asked for the reinstatement in the present pro-  gramme of a project on the development of democratic  institutions 1n evolving countries which had appeared  in the initial dra’t programme submitted to the thirty-  seventh session of the Executive Board, Suchastudy  would be of definite topical interest and he therefore  asked for restoration of the appropriation of $4,000  originally earmarked for the International Political  Science Association for production of a report on this  most interesting problem.
(145) Mr. SOMMEKFELT (Norway) said that the sub-  Ject was a vast one, and 1t was Important to secure  continuation of the projects if they were to be of  scientific value.
(146) Mr. COWELL (Umted Kingdom) wondered if  more would be achieved by supporting existing orga-  nizations, It was an important subject and needed  careful study, which might perhaps be given more  satisfactorily by the Programme and Budget Commis-  sion with its wider membership.
(147) As a secondary consideration, he asked how  deeply the Director-General was committed to the  project. With regard to paragraphs 205 and 209, he  assumed that Uresco would finance the whole project  despite the co-operation of other Specialized Agencies.  He would be interested to know whether technical as-  sistance funds would be forthcoming for such aproject.
(148) The CHAIRMAN did not agree with the United  Kingdom delegate that the project should be referred  direct to the Programme and Budget Commission: it  was for the Advisory Committee to give all possible  assistance by preliminary consideration.  International Centre for Research on Social Problems  of Industrialization in South Asia (paragraphs 216-222
(149) The CHAIRMAN drew attention to the Executive  Board's comments in document 8C/5 Add.1 and asked  if the Crairman of the Executive Board wished to  comment.
(150) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive  Board) said that the problem was continuallyarising  in all countries andthere was a need for research. The  Executive Board considered it of the highest importance,  - 703 -   VI-10 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON
(151) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences), replying to the delegate of the United King-  dom, said that, with regard to paragraph 205, :he  contribution of the International Labour Organization  would be in the form of studies to complement Unesco's  work. There might possibly be some indirect finan-  cial support through the European Productivity Agency.  As far as paragraph 209 was concerned, there were  definite promises of co-operation from both ECAFE  and FAO, involving financial consequences for those  organizations, which would not, however, necessarily  reduce Unesco's contribution.
(152) Turning to paragraphs 216-222, a cembinedac-  tivity was envisaged, of which one part was to have a  permanent character, and another part to be more  temporary and flexible, The first concerned a docu-  mentation centre on problems of industrialization and  economic development, which would be set up so as to  be of permanent benefit to the host country, while the  second, the research centre proper, would have anu-  cleus staff acting as a task force at the disposal of  member governments, which need not involve comrnit-  ment for any long future. The whole project presup-  posed a host country sufficiently interested to contri-  bute to the costs, It was further proposed that the  Social Science Officer in Delhi should become an inte-  gral part of the research centre, if establishedinthat    PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  region. A detailed memorandum 0. structure and  staff, as well as needs for premises and equipment,  had been prepared and was being discussed with the  Indian Government.
(153) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) thanked the  Director of the Department of Social Sciences for her  statement, With regard to paragraph 216, he wondered  whether, since it was undertaking part of the project,  the Indian Government might not be persuaded to  undertake the whole,
(154) Mr. LEE (United States of America) said that  the National Commission of his country was strongly  in favour of the project contained in paragraphs 216-
222. It was sponsored by a National Commission and  would therefore have that Commission's active inter-  est, and it was well planned. He proposed that it be  given a higher priority,
(155) The proposal of the delegate of the United States  of America, seconded by the delegates of the German  Federal Republic, France and Mexico, was adopted by
5 votes to nil with 4 abstentions.  The meeting rose at 7.10 p.m.  TENTH MEETING
6 November 1954 at 10 a,m.  Chairman : Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Australia)  ITEM 7.2 OF THE AGENDA: PRELIMINARY CONSIDSRATION  OF THE DRAFT PROGRAMME AND BULGET FOR 1955-56,  BEFORE THE OPENING OF THE SESSION (continued)  CHAPTER 3: SOCIAL SCIENCES (continued)  Project 3.7: The social sclences and evaluation  techniques (paragraphs 226-246)
(1) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive  Board) said that the resolution contained in this part  was one of the additions made after the Executive  Board's discussion with the Director-General on the  first draft, The Board had felt that it was necessary  for the Secretariat to find out how new projects were  getting on, and this had led to the ides. of promoting  the techniques of evaluation.
(2) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences) informed the meeting about the experi-  ment in evaluation at present being carried out  in Montevideo. The new institute for research on  public opinion in Uruguay was collaborating, as  well as the French Public Opinion Research    Institute, in an attempt to measure the impact of  the Conference.
(3) A corrigendum made to paragraph 238 was submit-  ted in order to incorporate adjustments of the work  plans after a meeting in Geneva, in July, with techni-  cal assistance representatives and social scientists,  The Department had been asked to hold another small  meeting in Geneva in the summer of 1955, together  with TAB representatives, in order to check on the  progress made in regard to evaluation of technical as-  sistance, The Economic and Social Council (para-  graph 239) had set up a committee of eleven govern-  ment representatives to make a general evaluation of  technical assistance programmes, Unesco would  place at their disposal a consultant in scientific  evaluation techniques.
(4) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) asked for details of tne  budget implications of the Montevideo enquiry,
(5) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director,  Sciences) replied that $4,000,  of projects in the same chapter,  the required expenses.  Department of Social  saved in 1954 out  would cover  - 704 -