23 November 1954 at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman: Mr. AL-HANI (Iraq)  ITEM 10.2 OF REVISED AGENDA: CONSIDERATION OF  REPORTS PRESENTED BY MEMBER STATES FOR 1932-33  (continued)
(1) The CHAIRMAN opened the meeting and invited  the delegate of Turke; to present his statement on  the six reports with whose study he had been  entrusted - those of Belgium, France, Italy,  Monaco, Switzerland and Yugoslavia.
(2) Mr. TUNCEL (Turkey) first expressed the  satisfaction he had felt upon reading those reports,  which, in their form and content, adhered generally  to the plan proposed by the Director-General and to  the recommendations of the Committee.
(3) The Belgian report - which might be criticized  for exceeding the number of pages prescribed -  showed very clearly that the Belgian public displayed  interest in Unesco whenever the latter intervened in  a field of practical interest which demanded  international action. Thus an understanding of  Unesco's objectives and activities had been greatly  promoted in Belgium by the creation of bodies like  the European Organization for Nuclear Research, or  by the organization of meetings such as the  International Conference on the Rôle and Place of  Music in the Education of Youth and Adults.
(4) Mr. Tuncel stated that, 1n the field of funda-  mental education, the efforts made by Belgium,  France, Italy and Yugoslavia merited special attention.  Thus, the fundamental education work carried out by  Belgium in the Congo and Ruanda-Urundi deserved  the highest praise. France, too, had tackled the  problem courageously. The Fundamental Education  Sub-Commuitee of the National Commission was  particularly active, and fundamental education  experiments in the French territories of Central  Africa had finally resulted in the creation, in  French West Africa, of the Centre fédéral  d'éducation de base (Federal Fundamental Education  Centre) at Dakar. The efforts made in Italy by the  Italian Central Committee for Popular Education to  develop reading centres, and to set up national  and provincial information centres for adults, also  deserved notice. A special committee for fundamental  education and ‘te study of its social and cultural  problems had bee 1 set up within the Italian National  Commission, independently of the Adult Education  Committee which .1ad proved very effective. Lastly,  Mr. Tuncel said, note had to be taken of the efforts  of the sub-committee set up within the Yugoslav  National Commission to deal with all fundamental and  adult education problems.
(5) Mr. Tuncel then passed to the question of    education for living in a world community, In  connexion with which steps of many different kinds  had been taken in Belgium; those steps were bound  to help very considerably in spreading and extending  a spirit of international understanding. In that  context Mr. Tuncel recalled that it was Mr. Verniers  who had taken the Chair in July 1953 at the Expert  Committee which had been convened at Unesco House  to study the principles and methods of education for  living in a world community.
(6) The French National Commission had for its part  issued a certain number of publications which might  prove very useful for instruction about living in a  world community; the Italian National Commission  had also helped 1n developing international under-  standing, and particularly in bringing Italian and  foreign youth closer together, by presenting a  collection of children's drawings from some sixty  countries.
(7) In the same field, 1t should be mentioned,  continued Mr. Tuncel, that 5, 000 copies of an issue  of the Courier devoted to Human Rights (December
1953) were distributed through the good offices of  the Swiss National Commission. On the occasion of  Human Rights Day, 10 December, that Commission  had also granted subventions to certain educational  reviews, which made it possible for them to publish  special numbers. In Yugoslavia, Mr. Tuncel added,  measures had also been taken with a view to improving  teaching about the United Nations and Human Rights.
(8) Mr. Tuncel went on to say that very useful work  had been done, in the six countries under consider-  ation, to assist the teaching and dissemination cf  science. In that respect he made special mention of  the activities of the Commission scientifique des  programmes (Scientific Programme Commuttce)  under the chairmanship of Mr. P. Rivet, and of the  Comité scientifique (Science Committee) under the  chairmanship of Professor Laugier, He particularly  drew members’ attention to the value of the national  and international symposia which had heen organized  in 1953 by the Centre national de la recherche  scientifique (National Centre for Scientific Research).  As regarded the popularization of science, the  efforts made during that same year by the Palais de  la Découverte and the French Broadcasting and  Television Service could also be quoted as examples.
(9) In the case of Belgium, Mr. Tuncel continued,  the following were the principal facts to be mentioned  with regard to the teaching and dissemination of  science: publication of a guide for the preparation  of authors' abstracts, ratification of the Convention  establishing an International Computation Centre,  and of the agreement setting up a Council of  - 817 -   x-7 COMMITTEE JN REPORTS OF MEMBER STATES  Representatives of European States for Nuclear  Research; and measures taken by the Nationa.  Association of Mathematics Teachers, the History  of Science Museum at Ghent, the Science Club at  Liège, the Royal Natural Science Institute and the  Zoological Garden at Antwerp, for the popularizatic.  of science.
(10) Yugnslavia had for its part contributed  usefully to the development of international scientific  co-operation by publishing, in two ot Unesco's  working languages, a review giving a general idea  of scientific activity in that country. Finally, in  Monaco the National Commission was at present  examining the desirability of drawing up multilingual  dictionaries of terms used in oceanography,  palaeontology and exotic botany.
(11) In the field of cultural activities, the six  countries under consideration had done much  brilliant work calculated to promote international  co-operation. Thus, in 1953, Belgium had set up a  National Music Council and a National Council for the  Visual Arts. A Belgian theatre centre had also been  formed to act as an international information service.  The travelling exhibitions prepared by Unesco had  been shown in approxirnately 50 piaces in Belgium  during the last two years. Lastly, the first  International Poetry Biennale, held at Knokke in  September 1952, had brought together two hundred  roets from thirty countries.
(12) In France, Mr. Tuncel continued, the National  Commission had given generous aid to international  organizations endeavouring to bring abou! collabo-  ration between the various countries in cultural  activities and humanistic studies. The authorities  also wished to enable all sectiors of the French  population to participate in the community's cultural  life, and for that purpose th“y sought to develop  rural ~ommunity centres, youth and culture hostels,  radio clubs, ciné-clubs and, above all, regional  drama centres.
(13) Mr. Tuncel then enumerated the chief events to  which Italy's keen interest in cultural activities had  given rise: the reception in Venice of the Inter-  national Conference of Artists; the creation of the  National Committee of Visual Arts; the making of  coiour reproductions of a certain number of .  characteristic works painted, since 1860, by Italian  artists; the organization of lending library services  in the provinces, and the formation of a National  Bibliographical Committee.
(14) Mr. Tuncel observed that the interest which  H. S.H, Prince Peter of Monaco took in arts and  letters had particularly encouraged the development  of cultural activities in Monaco; the literary prize  "Rainier 10" was still awarded every year.
(15) Mr. Tuncel mentioned the creation in  Yugoslavia of a vast network of cultural and artistic  societies, which, through the organization of choral  singing and concerts, helped to raise the level of the  whole population's artistic education. He also  stressed the very important part played by the  Yugoslav Commission for Cultural Relations with  Foreign Countries. That Commission had assisted  a large number of Yugoslav painters to exhibit a  selection of their works abroad. It had also been  responsible tor sending to foreign capitals the  magnificent national ballets from Belgrade and Zagreb.
(16) Mr. Tuncel concluded that the six countries  in question could be reg. rdcd as having implemented  Unesco's programme very satisfactorily, and that in  each of them the National Commission had duly  performed its te ks as a body for advice and liaison.
(17) Having recognized that the account he had just  given could furrish no more than a general picture  of the activities 1 1dertaken in those countries in the  various fields of interest to Unesco, Mr. Tuncel said  he wished to inform the Committee of two suggestions  which he had received from the Italian National  Commission.
(18) That Commission desired, in the first place,  that the International Social Science Bulletin should  devote more space to legal questions; in particular,  it suggested that Unesco should enlist a certain  number of legal experts to make, for publication in  the Bulletin, studies on the constitutional crises of  our time.
(19) Secondly, with regard to Unesco Coupons, the  Italian National Commission mentioned that the  dilatoriness shown by certain suppliers in sending  the books which had been ordered from them was  likely to harm the system by discours;.ng Nuyers.  The Commission therefore suggest -d that the  necessary steps should be take: to remedy that  situation.
(20) The THAIRMAN called upon the representative  of the United States of America to present his report.
(21) Mr. CONNORS (United States of America) said  that Mr. McCullough, who was the Executive Secl'etary  of the United States National Commission, regretted  that the Commission had been unable to submit the  report of the United States of America in time for at  to be included with the reports of the other Member  States in the printed volume (document 8C/4). Mr.  McCullough was unfortunately detained in the Working  Party on Decentralization and had asked Mr. Connors  to take his place in presenting to the Committee the  brief report he had prepared.
(22) Mr. Connors then proceeded, on behalf of Mr.  McCullough, to present to the Committee a brief  account of the reports of Australia, Canada, Denmark,  Japan, Norway, Sweden and the United Kingdom,  which were in close conformity with the form and  structure requested by the Director-General, and on  the report of the Union of Burma. The latter  provided interesting data on the remarkable progress  in Burma in the extension of education at all levels,  on the participation of Burmese representatives in  Unesco conferences, and on certain projects in  Burma receiving Unesco assistance. It did not,  however, conform to the outline suggested by the  Director-General, nor did it make clear to what  extent its educational programme related to Unesco  and its programme.
(23) The report of Australia could be cited as a  model of conciseness and relevance to the Unesco  programme. It stressed the benefits Australia had  derived from participation in Unesco seminars,  conferences and meetings of experts, to which  representatives of Australia themselves had mede  substantial contributions, Th: Government or the  National Advisory Committee for Unesco had  organized regional and national conferences to extend  - 918 -   COMMITTEE ON REPORTS OF MEMBER STATES X-7  to a wider audience an understanding of the matters  discussed at Unesco conferences. The report  revealed Government and National Advisory  Committee initiative in undertaking projects  responsive to Unesco resolutions. An example was  the preparation of a travelling exhibition of  Australian ~boriginal culture, which was received  with great interest in the United States of America  and which would soon be available to other countries.
(24) The report suggested that more Unesco projects  should be designed so as to allow a larger measure  of co-operation by National Commissions.
(25) The report of Canada stressed the development  of closer co-operation with Unesco, the assistance  given by national organizations in carrying out work  related to Unesco's aims, and “growing public  consciousness in Canada of the importance of the  arts". Examples of that upsurge of interest in the  arts were included in the report. The difficulty of  complying with some of the requests received from  the Secretariat were set out.
(26) The absence of a National Commission in  Canada was mentioned as one handicap, but  recognition was given to the generous support of  co-operating agencies and orgamzations.
(27) The report of Denmark stressed the action  undertaken to implement Unesco resolutions and  provided useful information about the Danish  National Commission.
(28) The report indicated notable progress in the  development of bilateral studies ¢ “textbooks. It  described several activities to mane Unesco better  known in Denmark, especially through projects  offering an opportunity for popui r participation,  such as the Unesco group trave lans and the  coupon programme.
(23) rhe report of Japan indicated unusual activity  closely related to resolutions of the General  Conference. Japan had undertaken important  exchanges of art exhibitions with a number of other  Member States, and great interest had been aroused  in Japan by travelling exhibitions prepared by Unesco.
(30) Education for imernational understanding,  including programmes both for children and adults,  was a matter of particular interest. Public  knowledge of Unesco had been promoted through  publications, seminars and the use of the media of  mass communication. Japan had been an active  participant in Unesco seminars and conferences,  both as host and by sending its experts to meetings  in other parts of the world.
(31) The Japanese National Commission was an  effective participant in those activities. It was well  organized and well staffed, with a recognized role  in promoting both specialized and popular interest  in Unesco's work.
(32) The report of Norway indicated the establish-  ment of a permanent secretariat to the National  Commission during the 1952-53 period and an  extensive and balanced attention to the wide range  of work in which Unesco was engaged.  {33) A lively interest in education for living ina  world community was indicated by the number and  variety of projects undertaken in that field.
(34) A number of Norwegian workers participated  in Unesco group travel schemes during the period.  Particular mention should be made of progress ir    Norway 1n the field of applied social sciences, an  area of work mentioned by few Member States.
(35) The report of Sweden recalled that its National  Commission was responsible for all official relations  with Unesco. Thus its report was largely an account  of activities carried out under the auspices of the  National Commission, which had the status of a  governmental body under the Mimstry of Education.  Those activities included projects in almost every  field of Unesco's interest. Sweden, like a number  of other countries, had associated with its work a  large number of non-governmental national  organizations, and was increasingly informing its  people about the work of the United Nations and the  Specialized Agencies through every medium of mass  communication.
(36) The report of the United Kingdom provided an  excellent example of the ways in which a highly  developed country benefited from its participation  in Unesco, while at the same time making major  contributions to the implementation of Unesco's  programme in other parts of the world.
(37) For example, Unesco's programme for  international understanding stimulated the preparation  of a new publication in the United Kingdom called  Teaching for International Understanding. That  publication was not only of value in the United  Kingdom, but had served as a guide to certain other  countries in the preparation of similar materials on  teaching for international understanding.
(38) Another example was its participation in  seminars and meetings of experts, both as host and  by sending distinguished experts to meetings in  other areas of the world.
(39) While the national bodies which co-operated  with the National Commission of the United Kingdom  had been generous in their interest and participation  in Unesco work, the report pointed out the continuing  lack of general public knowledge and appreciation of  what Unesco was and what it was trying to do, and  the National Commission accepted the responsibility  for improving that situation.
(40) The CHAIRMAN called upon the representative  of South Africa to present his report.
(41) Mr. WIDDOWSON (Union of South Africa) said  that the report of Ceylon showed a keen awareness of  the necessity for disseminating information  concerning the aims of Unesco and irdicated that the  problem was being energetically tackled. It was  noted particularly that efforts had been made by the  authorities in co-operation with the National  Commission to include material on the United  Nations and Unesco in the curriculum of both  primary and secondary schools.
(42) The report of China showed that, in conformity  with the Unesco programme for 1952-53, much  progress had been made in education and the social  sciences. Efforts were being made to spread  knowledge of Unesco through the media of mass  communication.
(43) The report of Egypt showed great activity in  fundamental education. One of the most impressive  developments in that field was the establishment of  the first Arab States Fundamental Education Centre,  the administration of which had been entrusted to  - 919 -   x-8 COMMITTEE ON REPORTS OF MEMBER STATES  Unesco. Keen interest had been displayed in  seminars and conferences. Much progress was also  recorded in the field of adult education.
(44) The report of Iraq reflected the energetic  efforts of the authorities to implement the aims of  Unesco, more particularly in the field of primary  education, where impressive resulte were being  achieved, Iraq had shown great interest, and had  participated, in almost every cultural conference  and seminar organized by Unesco. With the help of  a Unesco mission a vigorous approach had been  made to the problems of adult and fundamental  education,
(45) The report of Israel indicated the existence    of a highly organized and very active National  Commission. A particularly interesting aspect of  its work was noted in connexion with the use of the  media of mass communication to give publicity to  the work and auns of Unesco,
(46) The CHAIRMAN thanked the representatives of  Turkey, the United States of America and South  Africa for their reports, which provided a valuable  contribution to the study of the matter under  consideration. The first stage of the Committee's  work had been completed.  The meeting rose at 5.45 p.m.  EIGHTH MEETING
24 November 1954 at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman : Mr. AL-HANI (Iraq)  {1} The CHAIRMAN invited the delegate of the  United States of America to introduce his proposals  for the Committee's report.
(2) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  asked if he might first submit his comments on the  report of the Brazilian Government.  ITEM 10.2 OF REVISED AGENDA: CONSIDERATION OF  REPORTS PRESENTED BY MEMnER STATES FOR :9°2-53  (continued)
(3) Mr. McCullough said that the report of the  Brazilian Government which had been presented in  six sections in accordance with the Director-  General's suggestions, showed intensified co-  operation between Brazil and the Secretariat of  Unesco during the past two years. Of especial  interest was an account of the efforts of the  Brazilian Institute of Education, Science and Culture  (which was acting as the National Commission) to  publicize the Declaration of Human Rights. The  work of the Institute had been greatly stimulated by  visits from members of the Secretariat, in  particular, the Director-General and the Assistant  Director-General.
(4) The headquarters of the National Commission  was set up in 1952, with a documentation service,  and during that year the secretary had spent four  months at Unesco headquarters. A budget had been  provided ior the secretariat of the National  Commission since 1953.
(5) Activities included the issue of a monthly  bulletin, a number of publications (listed in the  report) and co-operation with commissions in other  States of Brazil - an interesting experiment in    State co-operation in a country with a decentralized  government.
(6) The activities of the National Commission and  the Brazilian Government on behalf of Unesco had  shown a steady increase during the two years under  review.  ITEM 10.4 OF REVISED AGENDA: REPORT TO THE  GENERAL CONFERENCE
(7) Turning to the question of the Committee's  report, Mr. McCullough said that the suggestions he  had to offer were not intended as a draft, but were  ideas which, if approved by the Committee, might  serve as a basis for the Secretary and the Rapporteur  in preparing the report. Their adoption would  necessitate some modification of resolution 60 of the  seventh session of the General Conference.  Form and Content of the Reports
(8) Mr. McCullough said that, in the first place, it  was essential to find a more efficient method of work  for the Committee. To that end he hoped that for the  next General Conference the Secretariat would be  able to prepare an analysis of the reports so that the  Committee would not have to spend time on a detailed  study of the individual reports but would be able to  start immediately on its real task of formulating  proposals to guide the Conference in framing  policies relating to Member States.
(9) As to the form in which Member States should  submit their next set of reports, he proposed that  they should be in four main sections, with two  obligatory annexes. The four sections would  contain: (1) an introductory comment; (2) information  - 820 -