ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  FOURTEENTH MEETING
23 November 1954 at 3 p.m.  Chairman : Mr. BEEBY (New Zealand)  ITEM 9.4.4 OF REVISED AGENDA : CONTRIBUTIONS : SCALE,  CURRENCY AND COLLECTION OF CONTRIBUTIONS OF  MEMBER STATES (documents 6C/ADM/32 and Addonda 1 and 2)  (continued)
(1) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Programme  and Budget) read out, at the Chairman's request, the  United Kingdom proposal (8C/ADM/32 Add. 1) and  the amendment proposed by the delegations of  Brazil, Egypt, France and Japan (6C/ADM/32  Add. 2).
(2) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) explained  that the amendment proposed by his delegation  introduced no new principle; he understood tha* it  was in line with a practice already adopted on  different occasions by the General Conference, and  he would be glad if the Secretariat would give him  some details concerning those precedents,
(3) Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) said that a  decision to use the surplus for financing projects in  the period 1955-56 would be in accordance with  decisions taken at the sixth and seventh sessions of  the General Conference; but it had nèver before  been agreed to withhold surpluses pending a decision  on their use by a later Conference.
(4) He replied in the affirmative to a further  question from the Brazilian delegate whether there  was a precedent for applying surpluses to a future  Unesco budget instead of returning them to Member  States.
(5) Mr. POHL (Union of South Africa) referred to a  statement by the Director-General at the previous  meeting that his reasons for formulating the proposals  for applying the surplus were no longer valid. The  only point of dispute between the two proposals  before the Commission was the use cf the sum of  $603,600 and, as there was no longer any need for  it to be held over until the 1957-58 period, he saw  no reason why it should not be set against future  expenses in accordance with normal business  procedure,
(6) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Programme  and Budget) confirmed that the only point of  controversy between the original proposal and the  amendment was whether or not the $603, 600 should  be returned to Member States. The Director-  General's object in proposing that the contributions  from new Member States should be carried  forward was to avoid undue fluctuations in the level  of contributions,
(7) Dr. MUDALIAR (India) said that, while he  believed that, in principle, the Financia! Regulations  should be adhered to and in normal circumstances he  would have supported the United Kingdom delegate*s  proposal, the exceptional circumstances of the  current year justified a departure from customary  practice, It was essential to see the financial  position as a whole. There were three points to be  considered: miscellaneous income, contributions  from new members, and the return of the 1847-51  surplus to Member States,
(8) The assessment level for 1955-56 showed a  reduction for nearly every country, and, even at the  maximum possible level proposed, the total  contribution of any Member State would not exceed  the amount paid in 1953-54, which worked out at one-  half of a cent per head of the population. He could  not understand why delegates of high calibre should  spend so much time discussing details of the budget  while there was so much other work to be done. He  believed it would be contrary to the ideals of Unesco  to reduce contributions because of an entirely  fortuitous circumstance. Many speakers, in plenary  and other meetings, had deplored the restriction of  activities in important fields, and any additional  funds available should be used for implementing  Unesco's programme, A fund on the lines of that  created by the United Nations for the furtherance of  educational projects would be favoured by many  countries - even those which had difficulty in  meeting their contributions - because they would  benefit by an expansion of activities.
(9) He therefore supported the amendment,  expressing the hope that the Conference would agree  to base 1955-56 contributions on the normal level,  and apply the additional funds, amounting to over  $2,100,000, to expanding Unesco's activities,  possibly to include financing the new headquarters  building. Those who believed in Unesco*s ideals and  the impact of its work on the world as a whole would  surely recognize the error of remitting such funds  to member governments,
(10) Mr. THA HLA (Union of Burma) said that, if  the surplus were distributed among members, even  the largest contributors would receive a comparatively  insignificant amount, If, however, the sum were  kept intact, it could be used effectively in the 1955-56  programme, for which the budget provision was  manifestly inadequate. He proposed that it should  be placed in a reserve fund, to be used for  cultural activities, the headquarters building or any  other purpose which the General Conference might  decide.  - 571 -   v-14 ADMINISTRATIVE
(11) Following a point of order raised by the United  Kingdom delegate, the delegate of Brazil formally  proposed the amendment in document 8C/ADM/32  Add. 2.
(12) Mr. C.W. CARTER (Canada) supported the  United Kingdom delegate's proposal for five reasons:
1. The action proposed was in the best interests of  Unesco as an organization and of its programme;
2. The members of the Commission were for the  time being a part of Unesco and would be judged by  the way in which they conducted Unesco's affairs;
3. The Commission had the double responsibility  of enhancing Unesco's prestige throughout the world  and inspiring faith and -onfidence in the Organization;
4, The Canadian dejegation was convinced that it  would be in the best interests of Unesco to adhere  strictly to the rules and regulations laid down in  respect of the budget; 5. The strongest argument  in favour of thr proposal was the confusion at the  past three meetings caused by the potential departure  from sound practice,
(13) The Financial Regulations had been established  expressly to avoid such confusion, and to ignore  them would lead Unesco to a similar situation, If  the Regulations did not meet the circumstances,  they could be revised.
(14) Mr, HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller), in reply  to a question from the delegate of Byelorussia, said  that the surplus would be returned to the Member  States who had contributed in the years during which  it arose; members who had joined Unesco  subsequently, or who were in arrears, would be  excluuc..
(15) Mr. HUZAYIN (Egypt) wished, as one of the  sponsors of the amendment, to reply to the points  raised by the Canadian delegate,
(16) Point 1. Since Unesco was about to start on a  transitional period of activity leading to a new  orientation of its programme, it would be in the  interests of the Organization to set aside a sum for  usc after the ninth session of the General  Conference,
(17) Point 2, The best way to further Unesco's  aims was to provide more funds for the programme,
(18) Point 3. Unesco's prestige was more likely to  be enhanced by programmes which were certain to  be implemented. Return of the surpluses to  Member States would imply theoretical rather than  practical support for Unesco's work. As to how  the funds were to be used, they could be applied to  fundamental education, production of reading  primers, or financing the headquarters building;  but the final decision should be left to the General  Conference at its ninth session,
(19) Foint 4. The Financial Regulations were not  part of Unesco's Constitution and were therefore  not binding.
(20) Finally, with as many as seventy-two Member  States, confusion was unavoidable, but out of  confusion clarity emerged, The amendment  proposed by four Member States was not only a  commendable effort to dispel the confusion but was  also an offer of a compromise which he hoped the  United Kingdom delegate would reciprocate.    COMMISSION
(21) Like the delegate of India, he hoped that  financial considerations would not obscure Uuesco's  mission to humanity,
(22) Mr, BAUGNIET (Belgium) thought there was a  mistake in the table given on page 5 of document
8C/ADM/32, Under the headirg, "Total  Appropriation", the following details were given:  Deduct: Miscellaneous Revenue $389,614  Budget Surpluses  available for  distribution $603,600,  Since the latter figure was identical with the budgetary  surplus referred to in the draft amendment under  discussion, that would appear to be a mistake either  of wording or in the figures.
(23) Mr. Baugniet stated, however, that his  delegation supported the draft amendment under  consideration, It could not have agreed to any  measure dealing with larger amounts, but thought àt  wise to reserve the sum in question, $603,600, for  the financial year 1957-58.
(24) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Programme  and Budget) said he could not give an immediate  reply to Mr, Baugniet's question but, since the  Belgian delegate approved the draft amendment  before them, he would provide him with the required  information when the meeting was over.
(25) Mr. SALIM (Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan) had  hesitated to enter the discussion because he represented  a country whose contribution was small. In his view,  while the larger contributors were within their rights  in wishing to receive back surpluses, such action  was contrary to the interests of Unesco. He there-  fore supported the proposed amendment, which woulc  give the ninth session of the General Conference an  opportunity to apply the surplus to the budget of the  Organization, and allow time for consideration of  the best ways in which it might be used.
(26) Mr, VILLALON GALDAMES (Chile) supported  the amendment, which was in keeping with the spirit  of Unesco, The sum in question could be used to  further the Organization's aims, In industry and  commerce, the new financial year began with the  transfer of the balance from the old. To give that  sum back to Member States would not be the best  way of sharing the benefits, It would be far better  that Unesco should announce one day that through its  efforts the number of illiterates had decreased or  the death rate throughout the world had been reduced.  That was what the peoples expected of the Organization,
(27) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) agreed that the  amendment had greatly simplified the Commission's  work, Nevertheless, many of the arguments, and in  particular those of the delegates of India and Egypt,  were more appropriate to the Programme and Budget  Commission, which had to approve the programme,  than to the Administrative Coinmission, which had  to approve a commensurate budget. If delegates  wished to support specific projects, the  correct procedure was to submit them as draft  resolutions and support them in the Programme  Commission,  - 572 -   ADMINISTRATIVE
(28) Speaking or behalf of the four delegations  whose draft amendment was before the meeting,  Mr. CABOUAT (France) stated that they were fully  aware of the need to observe the rules of orthodox  finance in all but exceptional circumstances, At  that time, Unesco had a surplus of over $2, 000, 000,  Was 1t wise to use up the whole amount at once,  when heavy expenses would probably have to be met  within the following two years? The amendment  before the meeting offered a sensible solution and  would keep the contributions payable by Member  States as stable as possible,
(29) In two years' time the sum of $603, 600 that at  was suggested should be set aside, wouiu «able a  considerable number of activities to be successfully  accomplished. Moreover, the sacrifice involved for  Member States would be insignificant, since, if the  surplus were distributed, each State would receive  only a very sm.di sum. On the other hand, it would  be a satisfactory solution for those delegates who  were anxious not to allow the total amount of  contributions to undergo too many fluctuations.
(30) A vote was taken on the draft amendment  contained in document 8C/ADM/32, Add. 2, which  was adopted by 31 votes to 9, with 9 abstentions,
(31) The United Kingdom proposal (document
8C/ADM/32 Add. 1), thus amended, was then  unanimousiy adopted,  ITEM 9.2 OF REVISED AGENDA : CONSIDERATION OF THE  REPORT OF THE ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PARTS |, III AND  IV OF THE BUDGET, AND REPORT TO THE PROGRAMME  COMMISSION (document 8C/BUD/1) (continued)  PART | — GENERAL POLICY  CHAPTER 2 — EXECUTIVE BOARD
(32) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the change in  the composition of the Executive Board required  formal approval of the increase in membership  from 20 to 22, involving an additional budgetary  provision of $12, 000 for the period 1955-56; and a  decision on whether Unesco should continue to pay  both travel and per diem.
(33) A formal proposal was made by the delegzte of  Japan and seconded by the delegate of the Philippines  that the Commission approve the addition of  $12,000 to Chapter 2, Part I of the budget.
(34) Mr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America)  was willing to support the proposal if the Executive  Board would endeavour to cut down both the length  and the number of sessions. If that were done, the  additional $12,000 might not ultimately be needed.
(35) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) thought that the  Executive Board should try to cut down the number  as well as the length of 1t5 sessions, and he  proposed that the Commission assent to the opimcn  given on that point by the Advisory Committee on    COMMISSION V-14  Programme and Budget (document 8C/BUD/1  (page 4)
(36) Mr, KOTSCHNIG (United States of Amer:ca)  asked whether the following wording would meet the  wishes of the Belgian delegate: "that every effort  be made by the Executive Board in co-operation  with the Director-General to reduce as far as  possible the number and length of sessions of the  Executive Board."
(37) The delegate of Belgium signified his acceptance.
(38) Mr, PHOTIADES (Greece) reminded the  Commission that Article V, B.8 of the Constitution,  which had been in force up to that time, stipulated  that "the Executive Board shall meet 1n regular  session at least twice a year". Since Conference  sessions were to be held bienmally, it would perhaps  be useful to arrange for five sessions of the Executive  Board during each two-year period. Mr. Photiaues  thought that solution might satisfy the delegate o!  the United States of America.
(39) The CHAIRMAN said that the two sessions each  year for the Executive Board were laid down 'n  Article V, B.8 of the Constitution, amendments to  which would require six months' notice,
(40) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) considered that the  provisions regarding the number of sessions of the  Board could be included in the Board's Rvles of  Procedure.
(41) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) thought there was no  need to oblige the Executive Board to hold a minimum  of five sessions in every two-year period, since the  Board might well decide that the twice yearly sessions  provided for under the Constitution were sufficient.
(42) Mr, LAUGIER (representing the Executive  Board) recalled that up to that time the agenda of the  Executive Board apart from one or two exceptions,  had included onlf questions arising from provisions  of the Constitution or from resolutions of the  General Conference, The only noteworthy departure  from that rule had been the preraration of the report  on the remodelling of the future programme of the  Organization.
(43) Furthermore the Executive Board had already  asked the Bureau of Legal Affairs to enquire into the  possibility of reducing its agenda, from which it had  transpired that the only way to shorten the Executive  Board agenda was to release the Board from some  of its responsibilities, Mr Laugier did not think  that was what the Commission had in mind, and  therefore thought that all that could be done was to  invite the Board to make its sessions as short as  possible,
(44) Mr. PHOTIADES ((ireece) concurred whole-  heariedly in the views of the Executive Board  representative,
(45) Mr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America)  agreed that it would be unwise to attempt tc. exceed  the provisions of the Constitution, but favoured a  - 573 -   v-14 ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  strong appeai for reducing sessions, The numbers imagined it was already settled. He then read the  er sisaged ree in 1955 and five in 1956 - were record of his statement, as given in the minutes of  excessive ai the Executive Board might well follow the meeting, adding that at the same meeting  the example of the Economic and Social Council in Mr, Rao had given details of the procedure in use  cutting down its agenda. at the United Nations, ILO and FAO,
(55) Mr. Haguiwara further thought that, if the
(46) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that the Commission wanted to economize, the new Executive  Executive Board had itself expressed the hope that Board could review its Rules of Procedure and might,  the Cunference would endeavour to lighten the for example, abolish payment of per diem to  burden which it placed on the Board, and he had deputies, or whenever the Board's sessions  asked whether the Board could help him to study the coincided with those of the General Conference. He  matter over the coming two years, with a view to doubted, however, if it were good policy to abolish  submitting proposals to the next session of the the payment of travel and living expenses, since that  Conference for amending the Regulations in that might tempt governments not to send their appointed  respect. A formal resolution from the Conference representative but to replace him by a deputy  would be necessary, and the Administrative residing where the Board was meeting.  Commission would be the appropriate body to (56) In those circumstances, Mr, Haguiwara  move it. maintained his proposal to increase the Executive  Board budget by $12,000, If that proposal were
(47) Mr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) rejected, he thought the Board should be left free to  suggested an addition to the proposal: "In this work out its own solution, since it was preferable  connexion the Conference requests the Executive that the General Conference should not intervene too  Board, in co-operation with the Director-General, often in the internal affairs of the Board.  to study ways and means designed to achieve this  end and to submit recommendations to the ninth (57) Replying to the delegate of Japan, the CHAIRMAN  session of the General Conference," quoted the summary records, which, in conformity  with his own recollection, showed that a decision
(48) This again was accepted by the delegate of still had to be taken on Chapter 2, He 2sked whether  Belgium. the delegate of Japan would agree to the following  form for his proposal:
(49) Mr. MERMINOD (Switzerland) said that it would "That the Organization continue to pay full travel  be putting the cart before the horse to cut down the and per diem expenses for members of the Executive  number and length of the Executive Board sessions Board and that the Director-General be authorized to  before reducing its burden of responsibility. add $12,000 to the budget item for 1955-56 to meet  However, the proposal of the United States delegation the cost of the two extra members."  should satisfy the whole Commission, so long as it  was understood that the possibility of curtailing the (58) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) said that, while the  work of the Executive Board would be examined Conference could vote a credit, the Executive Board,  before attempting to reduce the number and the under its Rules of Procedurc, apportioned the credit,  length of its sessions. He therefore wished to see the sum of $12, 000 added  to tile amount provided under Part I, Chapter 2,
(50) The CHAIRMAN read the proposal of the delegate paragraph 21, of the budget: "Travel of members  of Belgium, as amended by the delegate of tne United of the Board. ‘ If his proposal were rejected, he  States of America. hoped that te Board would either change its Rules  of Procedure or find other ways of meeting the cost  {51) The proposal was adopted. of the two additional members,
(52) The CHAIRMAN then recalled the proposal of: (59) The CHAIRMAN accordingly presented the  the Japanese delegate that the Director-General be original proposal of the delegate of Japan.  authorized to inclnde an «dditional amount of  $12,000 in Chapter 2 of the budget to meet the cost (60) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) was glad  of the two new members of the Executive Board. the Yugoslav delegate agreed that travel expenses  He asked whether the following wording would be for members of the Board should be defrayed by  satisfactory: Unesco. As for the per diem expeuses, though it  "That the Director-General b- instructed to was true that the sum involved was never a very  make provision in the budget for paying the expenses large one, Mr, Carneiro thought it was best not to  of the additional members." depart from the principle that expenses incurred by  a national civil servant on a tour of duty with an
(53) Mr. PETROVIC {Yugoslavia) considered that international organization such as the Executive  the travel expenses of members uf the Executive Poard of Unesco, which was called upon to carry  Board should be defrayed by the Organization, out certain tasks prescribed by the General  whereas their per diem expenses should be Conference, were the responsibility of the  defrayed by the governments they represented. Organization.
(54) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) recalled that the (61) Mr. MARTINEZ COBO (Ecuador) disagreed  matter in question had already been thrashed out at with the delegate of Yugoslavia. The amendment  the sixth meeting of the Commission, and he had would affect the attendance of some members of the    - 574 -   ADMINISTRATIVE  Executive Board who delonged to smaller countries,  The suggested procedure would make them  dependent up on their respective governments to an  undesirabls: axteni. As the United Kingdom delegate  had point’. out, members of the Board would  contin»« tu exercise the powers delegated to them  +, (ne Gene, a! Conference, and in its name, and  therefore the Organization should pay for all the  expenses consequent upontheir attendance at  meetings.
(82) Mr. FERNANDEZ MORENO (Argentina) agreed  with the delcgate of Japan, He fully concurred in  the remarks of the delegate of Ecuador to the effect  that members of the Board, in accordance with  Article V.12 of the Constitution, continued to act  "on behalf of the Conference’ and that the  Organization was therefore bound to defray experses  incurred tarough attending meetings of the Board.  Approval of the Yugoslav amendment would mean  doing an injustice to the smaller countries, The  speaker was also opposed to the United States  proposal, The Executive Board should be allowed  complete freedom in deciding the number and  duration of its sessions.
(83) The CHAIRMAN said that the number of sessions  had been agreed; the only problem now under  discussion was the method of finance.
(64) Mr, KOTSCHNIG (United States of America)  was strongly ofposed to the Japanese delegate's  proposal, which was superfluous: if the Board  applied itself seriously to the recommendation to  limit its sessions, the $12, 000 necessary to meet  the additional cost could easily be found,
(65) He had reconsidered the proposal of the  Yugoslav delegate and was willing to support it,  The Executive Board would now have a double  responsibility - to Unesco and to the privileged  governments - and it was only fair that the expenses  should be shared. If the Organization assumed the  cost of travel, there would be no discrimination,  since goveraments would be contributing equal  amounts for per diem, The resultant savings,  which amounted to approximately $35,000, were  far from insignificant and could be applied with  great effect to programme activities,
(66) Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS (United Kingdom)  said that the implications of the Yugoslav proposal  were more important than they had seemed at first  sight, and time was needed to consider its  administrative repercussions for both the  Organization and member governments, He  therefore supported the proposal of the Japanese  delegate, with the provision that the Executive Board  should be asked to report to the next General  Conference on metheds of meeting the travel and per  diem of members of the Executive Board, That  would permit of more careful discussion than was  possible at present,
(67) The delegate of Japan accepted the addition to  his proposal and the CHAIRMAN read out the final  wording:  "That the Director-General be authurized to add    COMMISSION V-14  $12,000 under Chapter 2 of the budget to meet the  cost of the two additional members of the Executive  Board ana that the Fxecutive Board be asked to  report to the next General Conference on proposals  for meeting the travel cxpenses and per diem of  Executive Board members,"
(68) Mr. BRICHET (France) considered that the  amendment of the Yugoslav delegate carried the  decisions of the Conference regarding the member-  ship and character of the Executive Board to their  logical conclusion. It would, however, be a dis-  service to Member States with limited resources to  ask them to defray the expenses of their  representatives on the Executive Board,
(69) Mr, Brichet pointed out that, at the United  Nations, five members of each delegation received  their expenses out of the Organization's budget; that  step had been taken so as to ensure that even the  smallest countries should be fittingly represented,  It might be desirable to apply a similar rule to the  members of the Executive Board of Unesco. Mr,  Brichet accordingly asked that per diem expenses  for members of the Board should be defrayed by  Unesco.
(70) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) stated that he had  accepted the reservation of the United Kingdom  because he felt sure that the Executive Board would  work out a plan for effecting economies, It must,  however, be given time to carry out the necessary  enquiries: a decision taken by the Commission in  undue haste was unlikely to be a sound one,
(71) Mr, Haguiwara reminded the Commission that  he had sat on the Executive Board for two years  while officially employed by the Ministry of Foreign  Affairs of his own country, which had funds for  covering travel expenses, Had he been a university  professor, the university authorities would no doubt  have been hard put to it to find the necessary credits.
(72) Mr, llaguiwara thought that two years should be  quite adequate for studying changes in the present  procedure, and that the Board should be asked to  report on the matter to the Conference at its ninth  session.
(73) Mr, PETROVIC (Yugoslavia) considered that all  countries had an interest in sending a representative  to the Board and would readily agree to defray the  cost involved, The stipulation that travel expenses  should be paid by Unesco removed a possible source  of inequality and it seemed only fair that other  expenses should be borne by the governments  concerned,
(74) Mr, KOTSCHNIG (United States of America)  said that there appeared to be a contradiction  between the resolution already adopted, which  called for economies on the part of the Executive  Board, and the proposal under discussion, which  aut'.orized additional expenditure.
(75) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the first  resolution called for resolutions to be submitted to  the ninth session of the General Conference, and it  could not be taken for granted that they would be  adopted, There was therefore no direct contradiction,  - 575 -   V-14 ADMINISTRATIVE
(76) The Chairman asked for a vote on the following  amendment to the Japanese delegate's proposal,  submitied by the delegate of Yugoslavia:  "That the Administrative Commission recommends  that the Organization pay for the travel expenses of  members of the Executive Board from and to their  home countries by the direct route to the seat of the  Executive Board sessions and that Member States  pay the per diem and subsistence allowances, and  the Commission requests the Executive Board to  amend its Regulations accordingly."
(77) The amendment was rejected by 36 votes to 7,  with 2 abstentions,
(78) The proposal of the delegate of Japan: "That  the Director-General be authorized to add $12, 000  under Chapter 2 of the budget to meet the cost of  the additional members of the Executive Board and  that the Executive Board be requested to make  proposals to the ninth session of the General  Confercnce on the question of travel and per diem  expenses of its members" was adopted by 32 votes  to 8 with 5 abstentions.  ITEM 9.8.1 OF REVISED AGENDA * ADOPTION OF SPANISH AS  \ WORKING LANGUAGE OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD (document
8C/ADM/T)
(79) Mr. MARTINEZ COBO (Ecuador) opened the  debate on document 8C/ADM/7, proposing the  adoption of Spanish as a working language of the  Executive Board, It was a language spoken hy 20  countries and by 200 million people, the discovery  of America had been announced in that language;  some of the most important works of the world  had been written in it, The draft resolution asked  that one more step should be taken towards declaring  Spanish a working language of Unesco. It could not  be objected that expenditure would thereby be  increased, since the cost was insignificant. In fact,  the use of Spanish as a working language of the Board  would mean the publication of fewer documents in  French and English with a consequent reduction in  costs. Unesco was a universal organization, and  should accept as'a working instrument of its  Executive Board a language so widely spoken as  Spanish, Moreover, the Director-General had  announced that funds were available to meet expenses  arising out of the adoption of the proposal.
(80) Mr. HUZAYIN (Egypt) seconded the proposal  because of the intrinsic virtues of the Spanish  language, its contribution to the human heritage and  its value in linking the old world with the new, His  delegation and those of other Arab-speaking  countries had always favoured the use of Spanish as  a working language. Its adoption for the Conference  had proved of great benefit to Unesco's work and  the additional funds required for its use at the  Executive Board were small.
(81) Mr. FRAGA IRIBARNE (Spain) seconded the  draft resolution submitted by the delegate of Ecuador,  He thanked the Egyptian delegate for his remarks.  Spanish was the language in which Cervantes, St. John    COMMISSION  of the Cross, Ruben Dario, Caro, Cuervo, Bello  and Sarmiento, among others, had written. There  had been speakers from the United Kingdom,  Yugoslavia and Greece, who had spoken in Spanish  at that very Conference. The fact that sessions of  the General Conference had been held in Mexico and  in Uruguay, and that the Organization had Centres  in Havana, Montevideo and Patzcuaro, confirmed  the importance of that language. It was necessary  to consider not so much the number of people who  spoke it as the number of countries whose native  language it was. More than a quarter of the Member  States of Unesco spoke Spanish, and a very large  number of groups of officials and National  Commissions found it necessary in handling the  documents of the Organization. There were four  Spanish-speaking members on the Executive Board,  and that number would probably be increased in the  future, The Board itself had allowed its members to  speak in Spanish even though, up to that date, speeches  had not been ‘nterpreted in that language. Moreover,  as the delegate of Ecuador had pointed out, 1f  Spanish were declared a working language of the  Executive Board, there would be fewer documents  published in French and English, which would  reduce the general cost of the Documents and  Publications Service,
(82) Mr, FERNANDEZ MORENO (Argentina) agreed  with the delegates of Ecuador and Spain, The  International Labour Office and the Food and  Agriculture Organization had already adopted  Spanish as a working language, He proposed that the  draft resolution be adopted unanimously,
(83) Mr, BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) warmly  approved the proposal of the delegate of Ecuador,  He thought it the natural and inevitable consequence  of the decision already taken to adopt Spanish as a  working language of the General Conference. He  also pointed out that the step would not only prove  useful for the delegations of Spanish-speaking  countries but also for those using a sister language.
(84) Mr. NOGUEIRA (Uruguay) supported the  proposal of the delegate of Ecuador. The Executive  Board had been using Spanish unofficially in its  discussions for some time, but the moment had  come to extend the use of Spanish in Unesco officially.
(85) Mr, RIANO JAUMA (Cuba) declared that the  unanimous adoption of the proposal would be an act  of justice towards all the States of Latin America,  which were members of Unesco and co-operated  actively in its work.
(86) Mr, BRICHET (France) recognized that the  adoption of the proposal would entail considerable  expenditure, but, considering the noble history of  the Spanish tongue and the place it held in Latin  America, the French delegation gave its sympathetic  approval to the proposal of the delegate of Ecuador.
(87) The proposal was warmly supported by the  delegates of Israel, USSR and Czechoslovakia.
(88) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) fully agreed with the  - 576 -   ADMINISTRATIVE  proposal of the delegate of Ecuador, which had been  recommended by the Executive Board, Since,  however, the question of the working languages of  the Board depended on the Rules of Procedure of  that body, he thought it better to leave the final  decision to the Executive Board itself,
(89) Mr. Haguiwara accordingly proposed that the  Commission word its recommendation as follows:  "The General Conference recommends that the  Executive Board take the necessary steps to adopt  Spanish as a working language of the Board."  Since the Board had already expressed its approval,  it would certainly accept such a recommendation.
(80) Mr. LAUGIER (Executive Board) reminded the  meeting that the Board had unanimously adopted a  recommendation in favour of Spanish as a working  language, The Commission could therefore confine  itself to approval of the Board's recommendation  and invite it to take the necessary steps to carry  it into effect.
(91) Mr. ENVERGA (Philippines) supported the  proposal of the delegate of Ecuador and said he  would vote in favour. He hoped the delegates would  give a unanimous vote,
(82) Mr, KOTSCHNIG (United States of America)  strongly supported the proposal and hoped that it  would be unanimously adopted by the Conference,
(93) Mr. WEST (United Kingdom) regretted that,  for administrative and financial reasons, his  delegation could not support the proposal, Their  attitude was not in any way a reflection on the  language or the people of Spain, for both of which  the United Kingdom had the highest regard.
(94) Mr. ATTAGARA (Thailand) alsc supported the  proposal and pointed out that nearly one-third of  the countries represented were Spanish speaking.
(95) Mr. DURAN MASIS (Costa Rica) fully  concurred in all that had been said by the delegates  in favour of the draft resolution moved by Ecuador,  The Executive Board was about to have more  Spanish-speaking members, The proposal was a  step towards placing the Spanish language on the  same footing in Unesco with French and English,  Spanish-speaking delegates had to lose a great deal  of time reading the large number of documents sent  to them in French or English,
(96) Mr. VILLALON GALDAMES (Chile) expressed  his deep regret at the attitude of the United Kingdom  delegate. The amount involved was very small  compared with expenditure on certain items which  were of less importance,
(87) Mr. MARTINEZ COBO (Ecuador) was unable  to accept the amendment submitted by the Japanese  delegate to the draft resolution of Ecuador, Further,  the Executive Board had recommended that the  resolution be approved. He expressed his gratitude  to all delegates who had declared themselves in  favour of the use of Spanish as a working language  of the Board, They had conferred an honour on all    COMMISSION . v-14  Spanish-speaking people, but he thought their  decision also did credit to themselves.
(98) The Zcuadorean proposal (document 8C/ADM/ 7)  was approved by 42 votes to 2 with 1 abstention,
(99) Mr, HAGUIWARA (Japan) said that he had  voted in favour because he was in complete  agreement with the substance of the proposal  concerned. He would, however, have preferred  some other wording since he thought it best to avoid  too frequent interventions by the Conference in the  internal affairs of the Board.  ITEM 9.8.2 OF REVISED AGENDA : ADOPTION OF RUSSIAN AS  A WORKING LANGUAGE OF UNESCO (document 8C/BUD/1 Add.)
(100) Mr, SOLDATOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) said that the use of Russian as a working  language of the Conference and the Executive Board  was highly important to the Soviet and other Russian-  speaking delegations. The cost involved was very  small co...pared with the total contributions paid by  those countries, He agreed with the Chairman of  the Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget,  who, in presenting his report to the Commission,  had referred to the need for economy in the  translation of official documents in Russian and he  pointed out that the Soviet delegation was not raising  the question of the use of Russian outside the  General Conference and the Executive Board,
(101) In stressing that the introduction of Russian  as a working language would enable the Russian-  speaking delegations to participate effectively in the  meetings of Unesco, Mr, Soldatov said that he would  like to see Unesco follow the practice of the United  Nations, in all of whose constituent bodies Russian  was an official and a working language, speeches  and documents alike being translated into and from  the language. While recognizing that such  comprehensivé action was not, at the present  juncture, practicable in Unesco, he hoped that it  might be possible to translate at least the basic  official documents into Russian.
(102) He regretted the decision of the Advisory  Committee and hoped that the Commission would be  able to adopt a favourable decision, since on it would  depend the fruitful co-operation of the Russian-  speaking countries,
(103) He formally proposed the following resolution:  "The General Conference resolves that the  Russian language shall be a working language of the  General Conference and of the.Executive Board of  Unesco".
(104) Mr, STEPANEK (Czechoslovakia), supporting  the proposal of the Soviet delegate, stressed the  importance of the Russian language not only to the  USSR but to all Slav countries in Eastern and  Central Europe.
(105) Mr. KAVALEVSKY (Byelorussian Soviet  Socialist Republic) warmly approved the proposal of  the Soviet Union delegate. He pointed out that  Russian was currently used by many of the peoples  of the world, and he emphasized the importance of  - 577 -   V-14 ADMINISTRATIVE  Russian literature. By adopting his proposal Unesco  would assuredly enhance its prestige, facilitate the  work of Russian-speaking delegates, and promote  the interests of the Organization,
(106) Mr. DUDNIK (Ukrainian Soviet Socialist  Republic) said that his delegation wanted to see the  Executive Board working as efficiently as possible,  Viewed in that light, the question of working  languages was of considerable importance. The  Ukrainian delegation had supported the adoption of  Spanish as a working language of the Executive  Boaru, and considered it unfair not to include  Russian among the Board's working languages, It  accordingly gave its full support to the proposal of  the delegation of the USSR,
(107) Mr. TAMAS (Hungary) supported the proposai  of the delegate of the USSR, Russian was the  language in which Pushkin, Tolstoi, Gorki,  Mitchurin and Chernishewski had written, It would  be to Unesco's advantage to adopt the language  spoken by 200 million human beings. In addition,  it was employed in the conduct of diplomatic,  cultural and scientific affairs by a great manv  people, and to use it would add to Unesco's prestige.
(108) Mr. WIECHECKI (Poland) wished to avoid  repeating the very telling arguments already put  forward in favour of the adoption of Russian as a  working language. He merely wanted to add that  the Polish delegation, whose mother tongue belonged  to the Slav group of languages, whole-heartedly  supported the proposal of the USSR delegate.
(109) Mr, CHEN YUAN (China) strongly opposed the  resolution. The United Nations have five official  languages and, if their precedent were followed,  Unesco would have seven, since Arabic and  Hindustani would have to be included, For reasons  of t:ine and economy it was not possible to adopt  that practice,  (*:d) He had supported the adoption of Spahish as  a ‘orking language, because there were twenty  Spanish-speaking Member States. If another  language were to be adopted, however, it should  certainly be Arabic in preference to Russian,  since there were more Arabic-speaking members, |  He saw no justification for the expense of adopting  Russian as a working language for the Conference,  and there was no case at all for the Executive  Board, since it had no Soviet member.
(111) Mr, KOTSCHNIG (United States of America)  moved that the resolution be dealt with in two parts.  With regard to the Executive Board, his delegation  considered that action would be premature, bearing  in mind that the Russian-speaking countries had  only recently joined Unesco, whereas the Spanish-  speaking countries had been members for eight  years before their language was adopted.
(112) Mr. WEST (United Kingdom) supported the  proposal of the United States delegate to deal with  the resolution in two parts, but opposed the adoption  of Russian as a working language of the Executive  Board, bearing in mind that there were many other    COMMISSION  languages whose claims for adoption would be  equally justifiable on the reasons given. His  opposition should not, however, be taken as  reflecting on the merits of Russian as a language.
(113) Mr, BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) approved  the suggestion to deal with the USSR proposal in  two parts, He was ready to agree to the inclusion  of Russian among the working languages of the  General Conference, Since the USSR had decided  to join Unesco, there was every reason to believe  thai it had assumed the obligations embodied in the  Const... tion, including that of allowing Unesco  publications to be distributed freely throughout the  USSR. It was, therefore, in the hope of enabling  Unesco publications to be distributed among Russian-  spo7k'.g peoples, that he supported that part of the  Russian proposal,  {114) On the other hand, he wished, for the time  being at least, to make certain reservations  regarding the use of Russian by the Executive Board,  It was not yet known how the Executive Board would  be composed. Mr. Carneiro hoped that the USSR  would be represented on it, but he also hoped that  the USSR delegate would be able to use one of the  present working languages of the Board, as did those  of his colleagues whose mother tongue was not among  the present working languages, or, if that were not  possible, that he would have recourse to an  interpreter.
(115) Mr, BRICHET (France) called for the  application of Rule 85 of the Rules of Procedure.
(116) Mr, SOLDATOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) said that the importance of Russian as a  working language had been adequately stated before  the Executive Board and the General Conference,  He only wished to repeat that the financial and  practical objections were nqt valid, He referred to  his comparison of the cost to the Organization with  the amount of the contributions of the Russian-  speaking Member States. He regretted that the  Spanish-speaking countries had had to wait so long  for the adoption of their language but considered that  it was irrelevant to the adoption of Russian, If the  problem were viewed in relation to Unesco's work,  irrelevant and political considerations would be  eliminated; it was a matter on which each delegate  must vote according to his conscience,
(117) The CHAIRMAN asked for a vote on the first  half of the proposal, namely the adoption of Russian  as a working language of the General Conference.
(118) The proposal was adopted by 34 votes tc nil  with 6 abstentions.
(119) The remainder of the proposal, that Russian  be adopted as a working language of the Executive  Board, was rejected by 22 votes to 5 with 14  abstentions,  - 578 -   ADMINISTRATIVE
(120) The proposal, as amended, was adopted, it  being understood that the Director-General would  be authorized to make the necessary budget  changes.
(121) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that certain  regulations would require amendment, and it was  agreed that the Legal Committee should deal with  that aspect of the matter,  ITEM à 2 OF REVISED AGENDA (continued)
(122) The Commission resumed its consideration  of document 8C/BUD/1.    COMMISBION  PART UI - GENERAL ADMINISTRATION  CHAPTER 3 — BUREAY OF PERSONNEL AND MANAGEMENT
(123) Mr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America)  moved that the paragraph contained in document
8C/BUD/1, page 23, be adopted as the  Commission's recommendation,
(124) The proposal was seconded by the delegate  of Israel, supported by the delegates of France  and Belgium, and adopted.  The meeting rose at 7.30 p.m,  FIFTEENTH MEETING
25 November 1954 at 10 a.m.  Chairman : Mr. BEEBY (New Zealand)  later: Mr. AVIDA (Israel)  REQUEST FROM TRE DELEGATION OF ISRAEL FOR THE  WRITING OFF OF THE SUM OF $5,714.38 BEING A LOSS  INCURRED BY THE ISRAELI NATIONAL COMMISSION ACTING  AS A DISTRIBUTION AGENCY FOR UNESCO COUPONS (docu-  ment 8C/ADM/20 Add.1)
(1) The CHAIRMAN invited the delegate of Israel to  introduce his Government's request for writing off  the loss incurred in the distribution of Unesco  coupons.
(2) Mr, AVIDA (Israel) said that there was not much  to be added to the information contained in the  document before the Commission, He recalled that  during the discussion of the similar request  submitted by Iran the delegation of the United States  of America had asked for an assurance that such  cases would not recur, It had been stated that the  Director-General had taken the necessary steps in  that connexion and therefore he, the representative  of Israel, requested the Commission to adopt the  draft resolution contained in the last part of his  Government's request,
(3) Mr. HUZAYIN (Egypt) said that, when the  request of Iran had been discussed, the  Commission had decided that it should not  constitute a precedent, and that individual  cases should be judged on their merits. In  the case of the Iranian request there had been  time to study the available evidence, For the  Israeli request there was both insufficient time  and not enough available data to give the  matter the necessary consideration from the  point of view of Unesco, and he therefore  proposed that the request should not be discussed,
(4) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) did not share the  views of the Egyptian delegate, although he agreed  that the previous decision in favour of the Iranian  Government did not constitute a precedent to be  invoked in every case, The members of the  Commission were, however, aware of the facts  behind the Israeli delegation's request; they were  similar to those adduced by the Iranian delegation.  Those facts, which had been confirmed by the  Director-General, justified the Israeli Government's  request, with the difference that the lapse of time  was shorter than in the case of Iran, The loss had  occurred because payment was made only 10 days  after the change in the rate of exchange, The sum  involved was not likely to disturb the balance of  Unesco's budget, and its payment to the Israeli  Government would satisfy the demands cf justice,
(5) The Israeli delegate’s proposal was adopted by
37 votes to 2, with 3 abstentions,  REQUEST FROM THE NATIONAL COMMISSION OF THE  FEDERAL PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA FOR THE  WRITING OFF OF THE SUM OF $ 1, 666.47, BEING A LOSS  INCURRED BY THE COMMISSION ACTING AS A DISTRIBUTING  AGENCY FOR UNESCO COUPONS (document 8C/ADM/29 Add.2)
(6) Mr, PETROVIC (Yugoslavia) requested the  Commission to approve a resolution, similar t_ that  just adopted at the request of the Israeli delegation,  in favour of the National Commission of the Federal  People's Republic of Yugoslavia, The sum to be  written off was the equivalent of $1,666.67.
(7) In reply to a question from the delegate of the  - 578 -