17 November 1954 at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman: Me. BEEBY (New Zealand)
(1) The CHAIRMAN announced that the main  business for the day was to consider the Report of  the Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget.  He had hoped that the Commission would also he  able to deal with the means of financing the budget,  but unfortunately it had been found that the question  was so closely connected with that of the scale of  contributions that it was impossible to consider it  until the report on the latter was available. The  report on the scale of contributions had been  prom. sed for Friday morning and the Chairman  suggested that, if the Commission agreed, it be  considered on Friday afternoon (19 November).
(2) Agreed,  ITEM 9.2 OF REVISED AGENDA: CONSIDERATION OF THE  REPORT OF THE ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PARTS I, ID  AND IV OF THE BUDGET, AND REPORT TO THE PROGRAMNE  COMMISSION (documents 8C/5, 8C/5 Corrigendum, 8C/5 Corr.2  and 8C/BUD/1).
(3) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Chairman of the  Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget)  presented the first report of the Advisory Committee,  contained in document 8C/BUD/1, and drew  attention to the points of direct concern to the  Commission, to which Parts I, III and IV of the  draft programme and budget were referred,
(4) After disapproving the adoption of Spanish as a  working language of the Executive Board, the  Committee had considered the use of Russian as a  working language of the General Conference and of  the Executive Board (documents 8C/DR/2 and
8C/DIV/78). It had been informed at its meeting  that morning that the Soviet delegation did not intend  to press for the immediate adoption of Russian as a  working language of Unesco. The Committee had  recommended that it be adopted as a working  language of the General Conference on the same  footing as English, French and Spamsh, but not as a  working language of the Execu.ive Board. With  regard to the publication of documents in Russian,  the Committee had agreed that the best solution  would be for the Soviet delegation to raise the  question under each individual project.
(5) With regard to Part III, the Committee had  discussed the staffing pattern of the Secretariat and  had heard suggestions regarding the Office of the  Director-General, It had been agreed to make no  proposals, as the Director-General was to submit  a paper on the subject at the appropriate time. The    Committee had been glad to note that 1t would be  possible to expand the Organization without increasing  expenditt ce, but some concern had been felt at the  administrative pattern, the Committee deprecated  the division of the Secretariat into watertight  compartments and the rigid symmeti y of the  programme departments. It recommended a saving  of $23,000 on the total budget for staff costs.
(6) In conclusion, Mr, Gardner Davies paid tribute  to the Secretariat's constructive collaboration  throughout the Committee's discussions; the  Committee's work had also been facilitated by its  widened terms of reference, The aim of its report  was to assist the Administrative Commission in  examining certain items of its agenda, the most  urgent being the scale of contributions and the  method of financing the budget, The question of the  use of Spanish and Russian as working languages  was also urgent,
(7) The CHAIRMAN thanked the Chairman of the  Advisory Commuttee for his extremely lucid and  helpful report, He reminded the Commission that  the 1tem on the financing of the budget had not yet  been formally referred to the Committee on  Contributions,
(8) Mr. SIMSARIAN (United States of America),  seconded by Mr, HUZAYIN (Egypt), moved that the  matter be referred to the Committee on  Contributions.
(9) Adopted.
(10) The CHAIRMAN remarked that the Committee  on Contributions was considering the theoretical  probable percentage of Member States not members  of the United Nations. That afternoon would be the  last opportunity for States which had not yet done so  to make representations to the Committee. Turning  back to the report of the Advisory Committee, the  Chairman requested members to study it item by  item, taking account also of the relevant sections of  the main programme and budget documents,  PART | — GENERAL POLICY (document 8C/BUD/1, page 4)  CHAPTER t — GENERAL CONFERENCE
(11) As a Brazilian delegate, Mr. BERREDO  CARNEIRO (Brazil) was very much in favour of  accepting the Indian invitation and would vote for it,  - 535 -   V-6 ADMINISTRATIVE  but, as Chairman of the Headquarters Committee,  he felt that the Committee should give the  Commission sone additional 'nformation on the  building in Paris. He suggested that the  Committee might meet on Monday morning
(12) Mr, BENDER (Executive Poard) stated that the  general feeling in the Board had been that Unesco  should be extremely grateful to india for its  invitation. No other invitation hud been received,  so that the choice of the seat of the niuth session  was limited to New Delhi and Paris, The  difference between the estimates for a session in  New Delhi and the estimates for a session in Paris  was £714, 042, so that, if possible, the session  ought to be held in Paris, However, the Board had  been informed by the Secretariat that the new  building would not be sufficiently ready in 1956,  which would mean that parts of the old building  would still have to be used by the Secretariat, Atter  some discussion, the Board had therefore decided  to recommend acceptance of the Indian Government's  generous offer,
(13) Mr. MONTAGNIER (Cnief, Bureau of  Conference Planning and General Services) gave the  Commission the latest information - which was  unlikely to change - received from the Headquarters  Office responsible for following the progress of the  work of construction. After recapitulating the  difficulties involved in holding the General  Conference's mnth session at the present head-  quarters, where there was insufficient space, he  Said that the buildings in the Place Fontenoy could  not be erected and completely fitted up in time for  all the services to be installed by October 1956,  The work would probably not be fimished before the  first months of 1857, The Conference building, the  whole of the basement, the ground floor and the  Ségur wing of the Secretariat's building could be  finished and fitted out by 30 September 1956 without  additional outlay. In those circumstances, it would  be impossible to install the whole of the Documents  and Publications Service in the accommodation  allotted to it on the first and second floors of the  new buildings. Some services could be installed in  t'e Ségur wing for the duration of the Conference,  but they would have to be moved later to their  permanent offices,
(14) The CHAIRMAN drew attention to an error in  paragraph 3 on page 6 of document 8C/6: the  additional cost of using a fourth working language  in New Delhi would be $40,000 only. He asked if  any delegation would move the adoption of the  Advisory Committee's recomnsendation.
(15) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) thought 1t  suitable that a representative of Latin America  should propose a formal motion for acceptance of  India's invitation, Repre :entatives of distant  countries had not hesitat:d to go so far afield as  Montevideo, and 1t was row for Latin America to  return their courtesy by enthusiastically accepting  that invitation and showing the same desire for  mutual acquaintanceship and assistance as those  - 536 -     COMMISSION  other representatives had displayed by goi'g to  Uruguay.
(16) The CHAIRMAN explained that under the Rules  of Procedure the Brazilian delegate's proposal must  be put as a formal recommendation from the  Commission to the General Conference to accept  the Indian Government's invitation to hold the rinth  session at New Delhi,
(17) Mr, RAADI (Iran) was delighted that a  represe tative of Latin America had made that  suggestion, which he, on behalf of the Middle East  countries, warmly supported, The Gencral  Conference had held sessions in every continent  except Asia, and Unesco could not but be grateful  to India for its invitation, which would enable the  Organization to complete its tour of the world.  Once the new buildings were finished, however, the  Conference should invariably meet in Paris,  although regional meetings of experts might be held  elsewhere,
(18) Mr. BARBEY (Switzerland) thought that  acceptance of the Indian proposal would afford  Unesco an opportunity of acquiring a wider  perspective and valuable experience, but that before  coming to a decision it would be advisable to give  some thought to the hesitations expressed by certain  countries. An extra outlay of $300,000 within a  period of two years might place too great burden  on the Crganization, Although he was well aware of  the difficulties involved in holding the Conference in  Paris, he would like, before he made up his mind,  to know whether the Indian Government would be  prepared to postpone its invitation until 1958.
(19) Mr. HUZAYIN (Egypt) heartily supported the  motion of the delegate of Brazil. He point:d out that  financial considerations were far less important than  the beneficial effect which a session held away from  headquarters had both on Unesco itself and on the  country and region concerned. Unesco needed to be  khown by the peoples of the world, and the Indian  invitation provided a magnificent opportunity for  Unesco to draw nearer to the peoples of South and  South East Asia. Moreover, it would be of immense  benefit for delegates and members of the Secretariat  to see and understand something of India - its past  and present and its great contribution to the common  heritage of mankind, The delegate of Egypt therefore  hoped that the invitation would be accepted with  gratitude and enthusiasm.
(20) Mrs, HEFFELFINGER (United States of  America) warmly seconded the proposal to accept  the Indian invitation, but hoped that the tenth session  of the General Conference would be held in the new  headquarters building in Paris in the spring of 1958.
(21) Mr. SHARIF (Pakistan) stated that, since  Unesco had held its sessions in almost all  regions except Asia, the desire of the Asian  countries to have a conference held in that  region was understandable and, in view of  the fact that the new buildings of Unesco in  Paris would not be quite ready, he associated   ADMINISTRATIVE  himself with that proposal and recommended its  acceptance.
(22) While feeling in some sympathy with the  remarks made by the delegate of Egypt concerning  the mutual impact of sessions abroad on Unesco  and the region concerned, Mr, WEST (Umted  Kingdom) recalled that his delegation had opposed  the erection of a costly new headquarters building  in Paris. That was past history; but, at the  present time, his delegation felt that, as far as  possible, sessions of the Conference should be held  in that building, if only because of the considerable  saving involved, However, if the building were not  ready in 1956, he could think of no other place in  the world where it would be more appropriate,  valuable and pleasant io hold the Conference than  in New Delhi. His own delegation would leak  forward with great pleasure to the contacts with the  Indian Government and people which would be  forthcoming,
(23) Mr. FERNANDEZ MORENO (Argentina)  agreed that 1t would be impossible to hold the ninth  session of the General Conference in Paris, and  warmly accepted the invitation from the friendly  peoples of the East. Their representatives had  already paid a tribute to Latin America by taking  the long road to Uruguay, and it would be only right  and proper to make the return visit. The difficulties  in the way of holding the next session in New Delhi  could be easily overcome. Consequently, the  Argentine delegation supported the Brazihan  delegation's proposal.
(24) Mr. PETROVIC (Yugoslavia) supported the  proposal to accept the Indian invitation, which would  please not only India but all the Asian countries.  Even if the new building were finished in time for  the ninth session, it would be a good idea to hold it  in New Delhi,
(25) The Brazilian motion to recommend acceptance  of the Indian Government's invitation to hold the  ninth session of the General Conference in New  Delhi was put to the vcte and adopted by 42 votes to
0, with 4 abstentions.
(26) On behalf of his Government, the Indian  National Commission and the Indian delegation,  Dr. MUDALIAR (India) expressed his gratitude for  the generous manner in which the Commission had  recommended acceptance of the invitation, He  greatly appreciated the sentiments which had been  expressed, and assured all members that the  Invitation came from the heart. Unesco would be  warmly welcomed, for all that the Organization  stood for was deeply appreciated by the sub-  continent of India and neighbouring countries.  CHAPTER 2 « EXECUTIVE BOARD
(27) Mr, HAGUIWARA (Japan), referring to  Chapter 2 and the adoption of the budget for the  Executive Board, said that at the previous meeting,  during the discussion on the possible change to be  - 537 -     COMMISSION V-§  made 1n the composition of the Board, the Pakistan  delegate had asned if acceptance of the United States  amendment would entail any changes in the  reimbursement of travel aid per diem for the  members of the Board. Mr, Haguiwara sn no  point in raising that question, since with thc  acceptance of Chapter 2 of that part of the budget  any misunderstanding on that point would be cleared  up. Besides, in other international organizations  with an executive board or some similar organ  composed of government vepresentatives, it was  usual for the organization to defray members’  travelling expenses. He concluded with the suggestion  that the Commission ask the Secretariat for  information at the following meeting about precedents  existing in other Specialized Agencies,
(28) The CHAIRMAN replied that 1t would be  possible to obtain the information requested by the  following day.
(29) Mr, BENDER (Executive Board) explained that  the Board had already examined the possibility of  reducing the number of questions with which it had  to deal, but had come to the conclusion that its  burden could not be lightened unless previous  decisions of the Genera! Conference, various  regulations anc certain provisions of the Constitution  were modified.
(30) Mr, SANDOVAL VALLARTA (Mexico) asked  for an explanation of Chapter 2 of document
8C/BUD/1, which, in its present form, contradicted  itself. While the first sentence said that ''sieps  should be taken to lighten the Board's obligations",  the last sentence asked for a reduction in the number  of meetings.
(31) Mr, GARDNER DAVIES (Chairman of the  Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget)  said that the Committee hoped that the Administrative  Commission would investigate the matter fully,  seeing if it were possible to modify various  regulations and previous decisions of the Conference,  with a view to freeing the Executive Board from  some of its responsibilities in the fields of  administration and finance.
(32) Mr, BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) remindea  the Commission that the Executive Board kept that  point constantly in mind. As it was quite impossible  for the Commission to improvise any precise  suggestions for an immediate modification of the  Conferencs's rules of procedure or the Executive  Board's responsibilities, he suggested thzt the  Commission should ask the Board to make proposals  for any changes or amendments which would satisfy  bath its own and the Organization's requirements.  Workable suggestions could not be made without a  close knowledge of the Board's responsibilities and  functions.
(33) The CHAIRMAN's own feeling was that the  item might be deferred until a decision had been  taken on the structure of the Executive Board,
(34) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) did not   V-6 ADMINISTRATIVE  think that the situation would be modified by a  change in the structure of the Board, He felt  strongly that no decision should be taken by the  Administrative Commission without previous  consultation with the Board itself,
(35) At the suggestion of Mr, SHARIF (Pakistan),  it was agreed to adjourn for half an hour to enable  members to study the relevant parts of the Advisory  Committee's Report, The items of direct concern  to the Commission were the following:  Part I, Chapters 1 and 2 (page 4),  Part II, Chapters 1 and 3 (page 23),  Part IV, (38) - Remuneration of Secretary of  Staff Association (page 23),  DR/50 - Creation of a post of Assistant  Director-General (page 24),  document 8C/ADM/7 - Adoption of Spanish as a  working language of the Executive Board (page 24),  The oral report of the Chairman of the Advisory  Committee on the use of Russian as a working  language.
(36) The meeting having reassembled, Mr, RAO  (Acting; Chief, Bureau of Programme and Budget)  described the practice of other Agencies in respect  of payment of travel and per diem to members of  their governing bodies or executive boards.  FAO - Travel and per diem of members of the  Executive Board paid by the Organization.  ILO - Governing Body divided into three sections  (government representatives, workers and employers):  travel and per diem of government representatives  paid by governments; travel and per diem of  workers and employers paid by the Organization.  United Nations - Travel and per diem of all  delegates paid by governments, Travel and per  diem of members of the Advisory Committee on  Administrative and Budgetary Questions (members  appointed in an individual capacity) paid by the  Organization,
(37) With regard to the Brazilian motion, the  CHAIRMAN pointed out that the Commission had no  right to communicate direct with the Executive  Board, but it could do so through the General  Committee,
(38) It was agreed that the Chairman should bring  the Brazilian proposal to the attention of the General  Committee, with a request that it be referred to the  Executive Board,  PART OI — GENERAL ADMINISTRATION  (document 8C /BUD/1, page 23)  CHAPTER 1 ~ OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL
(39) Mr. FARR (Chief, Bureau of Personnel and  Management) refcred members to pages 203-206  of document 8C/5, where the manning tables for the  Office of the Director-General were set out, The  fitst amendments to those manning tables were to  be found on pages 27-29 of document 8C/5  Corrigendum. Those amendments involved the    COMMILSION  abolition of one P.D. and one D.1 post and provided  for one post of Deputy Director-General and one post  of Assistant Director-General. Document 8C/5  Corr, 2 contained one further and final proposal,  namely that there should be no post of Deputy  Director-General, but a second post of Assistant  Director-General, There were no changes in any  other part of the structure of the Director-Gereral's  Office, Paragraph 4 of document 8C/5 Corr, 2  showed the saving effected by the Director-General's  final proposal.
(40) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) asked for  an explanation of the machinery proposed for the  replacement of the Director-General when absent:  and which officer would assume his resporsibilities?
(41) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) said that he too felt  concern at the successive changes involved, He  wanted to know whether acceptance of the Directar-  General's proposal would mean a change in the  regulations and what the new officer's exact title  would be. Whereas in the draft programme and  budget mention was made of a "Directeur général  adjoint" (Deputy Director-General), the new proposal  spoke Jf "Deux sous-directeurs généraux" (two  Assistant Directors-General), There would have to  be some agreement on terminology, and Mr, Baugniet,  for his part, favoured "Directeur général adjoint",
(42) Mr. KELLY (Australia) agreed that there was  a need for clarification of the duties of the two  Assistant Directors-General, which seemed to lack  precision and to overlap to some extent, He asked  who replaced the Director-General in case of  enforced absence.
(43) Replying to the delegate of Belgium, Mr. FARR  (Chief, Bureau of Personncl and Management) said  that the correct French title was "'Sous-Directeur  général", In the past, "Directeur général adjoint"  had always been used for "Deputy Director-General",
(44) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) remarked that the  official to be named would be either the Director-  General's deputy - i.e., the "Directeur général  adjoint" - or someone below him, who would  therefore not be required to replace him completely  in his absence. In that case, according to the  proposal, the official would be a "sous-directeur  geréral”, Lut Mr, Baugniet still felt that that  unusual formula was unfortunate; as there was a  post of Director-General, the title Director without  any further qualification would be more appropriate.
(45) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained that his  first idea had been to have two Deputy Directors-  General; he had, however, subsequently yielded to  the Executive Board's suggestion that the existing  post of Deputy Director-General be abolished and  that there be two posts of Assistant Director-  General. He thought of both of them as highly  placed assistants to himself in the fields described  in document 8C/5 Corr. 2, who would concentrate  all their time on duties above the level of Principal  Directors. He had drawn the Board's attention to  the fact that the Director-General and his two  - 538 -   ADMINISTRATIVE  Assistants would have to travel a great deal,  attending meetings of ACC, the Ecoromic and Social  Council, TAB, TAC and the other Specialized  Agencies, Therefore, taking account also of the  need for vacations, it was impossible to run the  Organization efficiently without two high level people  in addition to the Director-General, As for the  duties of the Assistant Directors-General, they  could not be considered apart from the individuals  concerned, and he was sure that the combination of  duties proposed was the best for those in question,  The creation of Mr. Maheu's post had been approved  in Venice by the Executive Board, acting on behalf  of the General Conference. It was a provisional  arrangement effective only until the end of 1954 and  its continuation the ~eafter would depend upon the  approval of the General Conference, Mr.  Adiseshiah's appointment would not take effect  unless the Conference approved the relevant  budgetary and organizational provisions. Mr. Maheu  was to concentrate on the diplomacy of the  Organization - relations with Member States, the  United Nations family and governmental and non-  governmental organizations. Mr. Adiseshiah would  concentrate on the technical assistance programme,  the integration of the technical assistance  programme with the regular programme, and co-  ordination of the administration of programme  activities, It was quite clear that their duties were  interlinked and that they would have to act as a team,  As time went on, he intended to allocate certain  duties to each of them which could be carried out  without consulting the Director-General or the other  Assistant Director-General, Both of them would  have to give him advice, in consultation with  Directors of Programme Departments, on the  programme as a whole. When he himself was  absent from headquarters, the two Assistants, in  rotation, would take precedence over the Department  Directors as Acting Director-General, If the  Director-General and both Assistants were absent  from Paris, the Directors of Programme Depart-  ments would, as in the past, serve in order of  seniority, as Acting Director- General,
(46) Mr. SALIM (Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan)  seconded the proposals in document 8C/5 Corr, 2  for three reasons: (a) because the arrangement was  very economical; (b) because the Director-General  advocated it and Mr, Salim had confidence in him  as an administrator; (c) because Mr, Adiseshiah,  with his profound knowledge of countries’ needs,  was eminently qualified to direct the new programme  of technical aid designed to meet the felt needs of  Member States.
(47) Mr, BAUGNIET (Belgium) thanked the  Director-General for his explanations, from which  it appeared that the new official for whom a post was  to be created would act both as the Director-  General's assistant and as his representative when  he himself was unable to perform his functions, He  concluded by formally proposing that the French  text be amended so as to read "directeur général  adjoint" instead of ‘’sous-directeur général".
(48) Mr, HUZAYIN (Egypt) warmly supported the    COMMIBSION V-6  Director-General's proposals in document 8C/5  Corr. 2, and felt that the oral explanation which the  Director-General had given should dissipate all  doubts. Mr, Maheu had always rendered very  valuable service to the Organization and was obviously  well fitted for the post. Mr. Adiseshiah's immense  activity and devotion to duty, coupled with his insight  and understanding of the various countries' needs,  qualified him admirably for the other post of  Assistant Director-General.
(49) Mr, KHADRA (Saudi-Arebia) fully concurred  with the delegates of Jordan and Egypt.
(50) Mr. BARRIOS (Nicaragua) said that, as the  debate continued, the subject, which had initially  been quite clear, was becoming more and more  obscure. In his view the title of Assistant Director-  General was suitable because it designated in all  languages the officer holding powers equal to those  of the Director-General whenever the latter authorized  him to act in that capacity, He asked why, under  paragraph 8, did the Director-General himself have  to lay down the functions of the Assistant Director-  General, without their having been fixed beforehand.  The Director-General was at present entitled to have  himself replaced during his absence in whatever way  he tnought most suitable without there being any need  for a fixed rosier of his suburdinates to deputize  for him.
(51) To avoid terminological difficulties, that officer  could be called "Subdirector General" in Spanish,  the "Directeur général adjoint” in French and by  whatever was the most suitable title in English,
(52) Mr. POHL (Un.on of South Africa) wondered  whether the question of who should serve as Acting  Director-General in the Director-General's absence  could not be dealt with under existing regulations;  that was to say, the Director-General, before going  away, would simply state who was to act in his place,  As for the figures at the bottorn of document 8C/5  Corr. 2, they seemed to Mr. Pohl to be almost too  good to be true. He asked if the economy was to be  a permanent one,
(53) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL replied in the  affirmative, The economy was the result of bringing  ore post of Deputy Director-General down to the  level of Assistant Director-General, He added tuat  the staff regulations enabled him to do as the delegate  of the Union of South Africa had suggested, but it  was a matter of custom for the Programme Directors,  in order of seniority, to serve as Acting Director-  General, should the Director-General and Assistant  Directors-General be absent at the same time,
(54) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) formally  proposed that the Commission approve the Director-  General's suggestion and leave it to the Executive  Board, with the help of the Secretariat, to settle  the question of terminology, which was difficult to  decide 1n a meeting of the Commission.
(55) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) seconded the  Brazilian delegate's proposal. He too thought it  futile to discuss questions of terminology in the  - 539 -   v-6 ADMINISTRATIVE  Commission, It was enough for the latter to decide  on the substance of the proposal before it.
(56) Mr. KELLY (Australia) did not think that the  new proposals really involved a saving, It seemed  to him that it was merely a question of spending  less money on one scheme than it had been  proposed to spend on another, but that both  estimates represented an increase over expenditure  for 1953-54, when there had been no post of  Assistant Director-General, He asked if his  interpretation was correct.
(57) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL repi’ed that the  economy was a real one: two posts, iamely D,1 -  Head of External Relations - and P. J, - Director  of the Office of the Director-General - had been  suppressed and replaced by one post of Assistant  Director-General and one P, 5 executive officer,  That operat.on had resulted in a saving. Thence-  forth, it was proposed to abolish the post of Deputy  Director-General and set up a second post of  Assistant Director-General, which would entail a  further economy.
(58) Mr. AL-HILLI (Iraq) supported the Directo: -  General's proposals, for, as Unesco expanded, it  seemed normal for the number of Assistant  Directors-General to increase, He greatly approved  the choice of Mr. Adiseshiah, who had great vision  and looked after the needs of every country.
(59) Mr. BENDER (Executive Board) stated that the  Director-General had consulted the Board in private  meeting, The discussion had been very cordial and  the Board had agreed to the new proposal before the  Commission,
(60) The CHAIRMAN invited the Commission to  vote on the proposal of the delegate of Jordan,  seconded by several delegations, that the Director-  General's proposals relating to his own Office, in  documents 8C/5, 8C/5 Corrigendum and 8C/5  Corr. 2, be approved.
(61) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) recalled that he had  formally proposed amending the French text so as  to use the term "directeur général adjoint", If the  proposal were adopted, it was essential to decide  on the proper title, and he would be glad of the  French delegation's opimon on that point,
(62) Mr. GAYET (France) was definitely against  the expression "sous-directeur général", which  should be ruled out, It was not used in any  administration to his knowledge. He thought that  "adjoint au directeur général” would be the best  expression, However, if that raised difficulties  with the other United Nations Specialized Agencies,  he was prepared to fall in with the Brazilian  delegate's proposal and leave it to the Executive  Board and the Director-General to find the title for  those officials. He had no comment on the  substance of the proposal.
(63) Mr. FRAGA IRIBARNE (Spain) stated that in  correct Spanish aad in view of very numerous  - 540 -     COMMISSION  precedents the expression 'Vicedirector" was the  most suitable for designating the Director-  General's deputy.
(64) Mr. POHL (Union of South Africa) wondered if  the delegates of Belgium and France would agree to  ask the Director-General, in consultation with the  Executive Board, to decide upon the terminology to  be used,
(66) The motiv . of the delegate of Jordan that the  Commission recommend approval of the Director-  General's proposals was adopted by 38 vutes to 0,  PART IV — COMMON SERVICE COSTS  Paragraph 39
(67) The Advisory Committee recommended that the  provision for remuneration of the Secretary of the  Staff Association ($4, 439 a year) be deleted,
(68) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL stated that the  question had been raised whether it was good  practice for an interna‘ional organization to pay  the salary of the secretary of its Staff Association,  whose purpose was to negotiate with the admini-  stration on the subject of personnel matters,  including some in which the Head of the Organization  found himself in conflict with the Staff Association.  There was precedent for the payment by the  administration of the salary of such a  secretary.
(69) The Director-General pointed out that a truly  satisfactory, competent international civil service  must be composed of people with an international  spirit and a sense of security and just dealing;  Unesco could not be successful unless it had a fine  staff of international civil servants with the  necessary machinery for the formulation of their  views, and the feeling that their claims would be  heard with an open mind, It would be an onerous  charge upon the staff if the secretary's salary had  to be paid by private subscription. If that were  in posed on them, he suspected that the officers  of the Staff Association would have recourse to  the method of using the time of employees who  should be working for the Administration, which  would prove more costly to Unesco than a post for  the secretary in the budget. Although the Staff  Association ar the Administration in Unesco had  been in conflict over a number of matters, he did  not wish that to obscure the fact that the Staff  Association was an essential element in a good  international civil service, It had been pointed out  that it might seem to the public that, in paying the  salary of the secretary of the Staff Association, the  Administration was approvis g the latter's activities;  but that was not a valid argument, for the  Administration paid the salary of the secretary of  the Appeals Board, but that did not rnean that it  took responsibility for the latter's activities.  The Director-General felt that it would be a gesture  of confidence in the doctrine he had outlined, and   ADMINISTRATIVE  of faith that the Staff Association would respond to  its high obligations, if the Conference accepted his  recommendation, rather than that of the Advisory  Committee.
(70) Mr, BAUGNIET (Belgium) thought that, in  the light of the Director-General's explanations,  the Conference would be wise to reject the Advisory  Committee's proposal and to retain in the budget  the amount proposed for the remuneration of the  Staif Association's secretary.
(71) Mr, POMPEI (Italy) endorsed the Director-  General's recommendations and was against the  Committee's recommendation. Leaving aside any  question of personalities, he had observed in his  capacity of permanent delegate to Unesco that the  post rendered great services not only to the staff  but to the Organization as well, since thanks to it  savings could be made far in excess of the salary  involved, many disputes being amicably settled  through its agency. Nor should it be forgotten that  the secretary of the Staff Association also acted as  secretary of the Appeals Board and thus worked  directly for the Organization itself,
(72) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) observed that he had  formally proposed rejecting the Advisory  Committee's recommendation and that his proposal  had just been seconded by the Italian delegate.
(73) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) also  seconded the Belgian delegate's proposal and  suggested that the reasons given by the Director-  General should be regarded as valid in that  particular case, since circumstances differed in  the different organizations.
(74) Mr. SHARIF (Pakistan) seconded the delegate  of Belgiurn.
(75) In reply to a question from Mr. ARTHUR  (United Kingdom), Mr. FARR (Chief, Bureau of  Personnel and Management) stated that membership  of the Staff Association was voluntary, and that  members paid subscriptions ranging from 350 to
1,000 French francs a year. The funds were used  for a great variety of welfare activities,
(76) Mr. GAYET (France) thought, after listening  carefully to the Director-General's comments,  that the Director-General's proposal should be  accepted. The Staff Association, which had existed  since 1948 and included 95 per cent of the staff, was  in his opinion essential to the efficient working of  the Bureau of Personnel, with which it closely  collaborated. He concluded by emphasizing the    COMMIBSION V-6  necessity for constant contact between the  Administration and the staff and thus came to the  conclusion that the Advisory Committee's  recommendation should be rejected,
(77) Miss LAISE (United States of America) asked  if the post was a full-time job. She pointed out that  the Staff Association of the United Nations, with a  larger number of members, had & part-time  secretary only, Her delegation agreed with the  Director-General's remarks regarding the rôle of  the Staff Associaton, but she pointed out that, if the  Administration continued to pay for the post, Member  States would have the right to expect staff members,  individually and collectively through their Staff  Association, to adhere to the standards of conduct  laid down by the International Civil Service  Advisory Board and, in that connexion, to refrain  from action of a political character or actioa  relating to issues which were solely within the  jurisdiction of Member States,
(78) Mr. KELLY (Australia) proposed, with some  regret, that the Advisory Committee's recommend-  ation be retained. The Staff Association should be  encouraged by its own members; he had been  shocked to hear that many were paying less than
1,000 francs a year and that a great dezl of the  mcney was being spent on recreational activities.
(79) Mr. FARR (Chief, Bureau of Personnel and  Management) explained that with a staff composed  of people of 48 di!ferent nationalities, mest of them  living away from their home ccuntries, the Staff  Association did a great deal of welfare work, helping  staff members to adjust themselves to their new  environment. The money was not spent on  recreational activities, but on various welfare  services and on artistic activities, designed to help  the staff to understand the culture of other countries,  Moreover, representatives of the Staff Association  served on many joint committees with the  Administration, involving work for which  secretarial assistance was necessary. The post of  secretary was consequently a full-time one.
(80) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that he would  call the attention of the officers of the Staff  Association to the statement just made by the  delegate of the United States of America,
(81) The motion to reject the recommendation of  the Advisory Cornmittee on Programme and Budget  was adopted by 25 votes to 2, with 10 abstentions.  The meeting rose at 7.15 p.m.  - 541 -