(13) The CHAIRMAN asked if the Committee would  agree to the proposal in principle, leaving it to the  Legal Adviser and the Rapporteur of the Legal  Committee to prepare a text for approval by the  General Conference.
(14) Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland) asked whether  the nroposal had been studied beforehand by the Legal  Committee and recommended by it.
(15) It was unanimously agreedto recommendthe first
22 names to the GeneralConference, adding that two  other candidates had obtained the required majority.
(16) With regard to the proposed modification of   procedure, as the text of the proposal was not  FIFTH  COMNITTEE  available and as 1t had not been considered by the  Legal Committee, it was agresd iv suppe7t, ht  not to recommend, ,that procedure to the General  Conference,
(17) The CHAIRMAN thankedallthe heads of  delegations for the patience and goodwill which  they had shown at the third meeting of the  Nominations Committee. Heassured them that  his only intention in proposing that discussion  be limited to procedural matters had been to  ensure that the Committee completed its work  in time.  The meeting rose at 1.45 p.m.  MEETING
10 December 1954 az 3.30 p.m.  Chairman : Dr. MUDALIAR (India)  RECOMMENDATIONS TO THE GENERAL CONFERENCE  CONCERNING THE ELECTION OF MEMBER STATES  TO SERVE ON THE LEGAL COMMITTEE, THE ADVISORY  COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET AND THE  COMMITTEE ON REPORTS BY MEMBER STATES
(1) The CHAIRMAN said that he had been called  upon to replace the Chairman of the Committee, who  had left for India,
(2) The task of the Committee was to elect the  Member States who would serve on three Committees  of the General Conference at its next session: the  Legal Committee, the Advisory Committee on Pro-  gramme and Budget and the Committee on Reports  by Member States,
(3) Document 8C/DIV/154 showed the membership  of those Committees as elected at previous sessions,
(4) The Member States to serve on the Headquarters  Committee and on the Executive Board had already  been elected,
(5) The President proposed the following lists for the  approval of the Committee:  Legal Committee (15 members) - Colombia,  Czechoslovakia, France, Italy, Japan, Laos,  Lebanon, Mexico, Netherlands, Pakistan, Union of  South Africa, United Kingdom, United States of  America, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,  Uruguay.  Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget
(17 members) - Australia, Burma (Union of), Chile,  Egypt, France, Guatemala, India, Israel, Philippines,  Poland, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, United Kingdom,  United States of America, Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics, Yugoslavia. Of those 17 members, 6 were  also members of the new Executive Board.    Committee on Reports by Member States (15  members) - Argentina, Austria, Cambodia, Ceylon,  Colombia, France, Honduras, Hungary, Iran, Jordan  (Hashemite Kingdom of}, Norway, Spain, UnitedKingdom,  United States of America, Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics. It hadbeen suggestedthat, inthe last  Committee, Korea should take the place of Colombia.
(6) Mr. MARTINEZ COBO (Ecuador) said that the  Latin American countries were under-represented on  the three Committees as proposed. They would not,  however, ask for additional seats, They did,  nevertheless, wish to propose that Colombia and  Argentina should be represented on the Legal  Committee, Chile and Mexico on the Advisory  Committee, and Guatemala and Honduras on the  Committee on Reports by Member States.
(7) Mr. SECCO ELLAURI (Uruguay) said that the  group of Latin American countries had reached easy  agreement on candidatures for the Executive Board,  because a nuraber of possible candidates had stood  down to make way for others. His country would  follow that example and would not stand for election  to the Legal Committee.
(8) Mr. MARTINEZ COBO (Ecuador) thanked the  delegate of Uruguay, and proposed that the place of  Uruguay be taken by Argentina.
(8) Mr. COLOMBO (Argentina), thanking the delegate  of Ecuador, said that his country was unable to  accept, being already proposea for the Committee on  Reports by Member States, It would prefer a seat on  the Legal Committee.  - 878 -   NOMINATIO
(10) Mr. DUERING (Sweden) said that for two years  Sweden had been represented on the Advisory  Committee. He would suggest that Sweden be  replaced by Norway onthe Advisory Committee, and  taat Sweden be electedto a seat on the Committee on  Reports by Member States.
(11) Mr. MARTINEZ COBO (Ecuador) suggested  that Costa Rica be represented onthe Committee on  Reports by Member States.
(12) Sir Kenneth GRUBB (United Kingdom) had  understood that the Scandinavian countries had  wanted Denmark to serve on the Committee on  Reports by Member States, instead of Norway.
(13) The CHAIRMAN recalled that the delegate of  Sweden had just suggested that Sweden, rather than  Norway, should serve on that Committee.
(14) In view of the suggestions made, he proposed  that the three committees be composed as follows:  NS     - 879 -  COMMITTEE vo-5  Legal Committee (15 members) - Argent: a,  Colombia, Czechcslovakia, France, Italy, J , un,  Laos, Lebanon, Mexico, Netherlands, Pakistan,  Union of South Africa, United Kingdom, United States  of America, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.  Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget
(17) members) - Australia, Burma (Union of), Chile,  Egypt, France, Guatemala, India, Israel, Norway,  Philippines, Poland, Switzerland, Turkey, uuited  Kingdom, United States of America, Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics, Yugoslavia.  Committee on Reports by Member States (15  members) - Austria, Cambodia, Ceylon, Costa Rica,  Denmark, France, Honduras, Hungary, lran, Jordan  (Hashemite Kingdom of), Korea, Spain, United  Kingdom, United States of America, Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics,
(15) The three proposals were unanimously adopted.  The meeting rose at 4.10 p.m.