IV-26 PROGRANME AND BUDGET COMMISSION  week, the Commission would have a painful meeting,  when it would have to cut out a great many of the  items which it had put ir. Therefore, while very  much in sympathy with the Polish proposal, and  hoping that its attitude would not be misinterpreted,  the United Kingdom delegation would very reluctantly  vote against the project and would support the  suggestion that a series of articles on Mickiewicz  be published in the Unesco Courier.
(125) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) considered  that the solution suggested by the Advisory Committee  on Programme and Budget was inacceptable.
(126) He proposed that the Director-General be  invited:
(1) to study the possibility of publishing a volume  at Unesco's expense;
(2) if the necessary funds could not be found, to  ask the Revue de Littérature Comparée to devote a  special number to Mickiewicz.
(127) Mr. TAMAS (Hungary) moved approval of the  original Polish draft resolution.
(128) He considered not only that it was Unesco's  duty to pay tribute to the Polish poet, but that it  would be an honour for Unesco to have done so.
(128) Mr. LINKSON (Australia) moved, as an  amendment to the Polish motion, that the possibility  of having the book published by a commercial  publisher under Unesco's sponsorship be  explored.
(130) The motion was seconded by Mr. PANNETON  (Canada).
(131) The Australian amendment was rejected by
14 votes to 12, with 5 abstentions.
(132) The Polish motion, as set out in document
8C/DR/64, was adopted by 20 votes to 3, with 8  abstentions.
(133) Project 4. 42 was approved.  The meeting rose at 12,30 a.m.  TWENTY - SIXTH MEETING
3 December 1954 at 10 a.m.  Chairman : Mr, THA HLA (Union of Burma)  ITEM 8.4.5 OF REVISED AGENDA : MASS COMMUNICATION
(1) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass  Communication) stated that in the light of the  different projects described in the chapter on Mass  Communication the working party had arrived at a  definition of the Department's main objectives and  had drawn up a scheme which not only corresponded  clearly to those objectives but also fitted in exactly  with the Director-General's programme. :
(2) A close examination of the different projects  showed that activities fell into two separate groups:  (a) those under items 5.1 and 5. 2, relating to  public information and the promotion of international  understanding by Member States and Unesco;  (b) those under items 5. 3 to 5.6, covering  projects relating to assistance to Member States  in the development of Mass Communication services  for educational, scientific and cultural uses.
(3) In carrying out the activities in the first group,  the Department employed the following methods:  (a) co-operation with the press and press agencies,  both international and national, for whom the  Department prepared press releases, newsletters,  photo stories, articles, leaflets and folders;  (b) co-operation with the radio: the Department  distributed the Unesco World Review, weekly to  over 1, 600 radio organizations in nearly 120 countries    - 446 -  and territories; it made recordings of talks,  commentaries and interviews; it arranged for the  production of documentary and cultural broadcasts;  and it invited guest producers from radio  organizations in Member States to make a series  of broadcasts;  (c) production of visual aids, consisting of  newsreel items, "shorts", and filmstrips, and  organization of travelling exhibitions for circulation  among the various States in turn.
(4) Al the projects under items 5.1 and 5. 2  represented services rendered by the Secretariat,  not only to Unesco, but to the family of nations  as a whole.
(5) Turning next to the second category, Mr.  Desjardins described the activities concerned in  detail.
(6) With regard to item 5.3 (Free Flow of Informa-  tion), the methods employed by the Secretariat  were threefold:
(1) Encouragement of Member States to conclude  agreements and make administrative arrangements,  and formulation of recommendations with a view to  the establishment of international standards.
(2) Co-operation with the United Nations, the  Specialized Agencies and appropriate international  organizations, in order to encourage the adoption  of practical measures for the reduction of obstacles   PROGRAMME AND  to the free flow of ideas from country to country.
(3) Enlistment of professional and governmental  support by the supply of publications designed to  encourage them to take remedial action.
(7) Referring to item 5.4 Mr. Desjardins explained  that the basic task of the Clearing House was to  collect and disseminate information on mass commu-  nication questions and to comply with requests from  governments, national and international organizations,  professional organizations and specialists.
(8) The Clearing House issued roneotyped copies of  a bulletin for those engaged in mass communication  work, and kept a register of specialists, through  which experts could be recruited to undertake direct  aid missions to Member States.
(9) Once collected, such information enabled the  Secretariat to reply to requests from the Economic  and Social Council and the other Specialized Agencies  of the United Nations.
(10) The Economic and Social Council of the United  Nations had moreover recommended, at its  seventeenth session, that Unesco continue with its  work of research and documentation.
(11) The projects included under item 5.5 were  intended to stimulate exploration of new fields of  knowledge, which might help Member States in their  use of the different means of communication for  fundamental and workers' education. Practical  experiments, conducted in co-operation with a  Member State and on its territory, were rt only a  help to that country, but also provided cn opportunity  to try out new methods which might benefit many  other countries,
(12) The main purpose of item 5,6 was to give direct  aid to Member States, at their request, in the form  of expert missions and regional seminars organized  with a view to speeding up the development of  communication services in the beneficiary countries.
(13) Mr. Desjardins went on to emphasizu the fact  that the Economic and Social Council and the General  Assembly of the United Nations had asked Unesco to  endeavour to increase its aid to governments in the  development of their mass communication services,  and in particular to send then. experts and help them  to train specialists. The number of requests might  accordingly be expected to increase.
(14) Mr, Desjardins reminded the Commission that  item 5.7, "Voluntary International Assistance', had  been included in the first group, and added that that  item covered the various activities connected with  the Unesco Coupon Scheme, which he explained in  the following terms.
(15) The coupons were divided into two separate  categories: in the first place, there were coupons  on sale for books, films and scientific materials  and also travel coupons, Thirty-seven Member  States were at present taking part in the scheme,  and, since 1948, Unesco had issued coupons to the  value of over $6, 000, 000; the Organization had  thereby been able to cover administrative and mis-  cellaneous expenses, including salaries. The second  group consisted of the gift coupons, which had  considerable information and propaganda value, and  gave large numbers of people in the different Member  States an opportunity to take an active part in  Unesco's programme, as well as in those of the United  Nations and other Specialized Agencies,  - 447 -     BUDGET COMMISSION IV-26
(16) The material results obtained from the Gift  Coupon Scheme were encouraging, and the number  of donors was steadily increasing.
(17) Mr. DE SALIS (Chairman of the Working Party  on Mass Communication) recalled that the Working  Party had been instructed to examine the administra-  tive pattern of the Department of Mass Communication,  but did not have to take decisions on programme  questions.
(18) As the Department's two main duties were to  spread ki:owledge of Unesco's aims and activities,  and to promote the development of the means of  communication, the Working Party had unanimously  agreed that each of those functions should have a  corresponding section within the Department.
(19) The Department would thus be headed by a  Director, with two assistant directors, one res-  ponsible for the group of activities under items
5.1, 5.2 and 5.7 and the other for those under items
5.3, 5.4, 5.5 and 5.6.
(20) The Working Party had agreed that, in the  mass communication budget as a whole, ‘unds should  be divided between those two groups of activities in  the same proportion as in the previous budget.
(21) The Director-General would be asked to draw  up a report on the results of the proposed reorganiza-  tion for submission to the General Conference at 1ts  next session.
(22) On behalf of the Director-General, Mr.  DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Communication)  expressed his entire agreement with the Working  Party's resolution which, save for two abstentions,  had been adopted unanimously.
(23) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  conveyed to the Chairman of the Working Party, the  Director-General's thanks for having studied with  such care the problem of the structure of a depart-  ment whose functions were both difficult and  complex.
(24) He stated that the Director-General agreed  with the recommendations in the report of the  Working Party, which had succeeded in preserving  the Department's fundamental unity while at the  same time pointing clearly to its dual functions.  Project 5.1: Public information and promotion of  international understanding by Member States  Paragraphs 15-20
(25) Mrs. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) drew  the Commission's attention to the opinion expressed  by the Working Party on Decentralization (document
8C/PRG/25 (rev.) page 4, B. 2), to the effect that  "the assistance to National Commissions" (para-  graphs 19 and 20 under resolution 5. 1 A) should "be  transferred and added to the work plan for resolution
7.12 ($30,000 for the two years)"
(26) The Director-General was in full agreement  with that recommendation. The point was not to  eliminate such an important activity but to insert it  where it could be most effective.
(27) The Assistant Director-General accordingly  proposed that discussion of the item be deferred   IV-26 PROGRAMME AND  until resolution 7,12 came up for study.
(28) Mr. HARDY (United States of America), on a  point of order, moved that before starting on the  discussion a vote should be taken on the appropriate  section of the recommendations of the Working Party  on Decentralization,
(29) The proposal, duly seconded, was adopted.
(30) The CHAIRMAN accordingly asked for a vote  on Section IV B. (2) of document 8C/PRG/25 (rev. ).
(31) The paragraph was adopted by 36 votes to nil  with 6 abstentions.
(32) Mr. HARDY (United States of America),  referring to resolution 5.1, said that the extent to  which Member States could co-operate with Unesco  by facilitating and encouraging the use of mass  communication depended greatly on the kind of  information produced by Unesco. Paragraphs 15-20  placed appropriate emphasis on the importance of  Unesco's functional news reporting services and left  it to the discretion of Member States to transmit news  received to their own mass communication services.  The nature and objectivity of reporting would depend  on the degree to which Member States could transiate  news and information of a highly technical nature  into the common language of the people for whom it  was intended,
(33) Mr. FAWZI (Egypt) hoped that it would be  possible to arrange the future programme so that  project 5. 7 would follow immediately after projects
5.1 and 5. 2, since under the new structure the three  activities would be controlled by the same assistant  director.
(34) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) said  that the Secretariat would take note of the Egyptian  delegate's suggestion.
(35) Mr. SHAHANE (India) was in general agree-  ment with the report of the Working Party on the  Administrative Structure of the Department of Mass  Communication, but said that the major part of its  output was in a language incomprehensible to the  masses. In India, for example, Hindi was the only  language of about one hundred million people.  Unescot's activities, to be effective, must be made  avzilable to the masses and not merely to the élite.  He hoped that the Director-General and the  Secretariat would bear his admonition in mind.
(36) Mr. BRANCA (Italy) disliked the wording of  paragraph 14, because it gave the impression that  the principal aim of weaving together "information  about the Organization's activities and information  on educational, scientific and cultural matters in  broad terms" was to give publicity to the work of the  Department of Mass Communication itself.
(37) It was reasonable to expect the Department to  serve Unesco's aims more directly. Itshould spread  knowledge of works of great cultural value and of great  scientific discoveries. Shakespeare, Dante and  Cervantes would speak better than any radio expert.  - 448 -     BUDGET COMMISSION
(38) Mr. IBANEZ GOMEZ (Chile) considered that  information about Unesco's activities should be  adapted to local conditions in the different countries;  he therefore suggested that th. task be entrusted to  the respective National Commissions.  National manifestations in support of international  understanding (Sections B and C - paragraphs 21-24)
(39) Mr. Hf CQUAERT (Belgium), speaking >n  behalf of the Belgian National Commission, suggested  that, in organizing public meetings and debates  designed to further international understanding,  Member States might more often call upon those of  their own nationals who were former Unesco  fellowship holders, as they might have a valuable  contribution to make.
(40) With regard to reports on Member States by  Unesco writers (paragraph 23), Mr. Hacquaert  thought that they might also be distributed to  National Commissions, which were often in a position,  by virtue of their press contacts (as was the case in  Belgium), to give them wider distribution.
(41) Mr. SHAHANE (India) proposed that the  Department of Mass Communication should endeavour  through the National Commissions to obtain the  services of wi ters and broadcasters from different  countries in order to produce material for use in  disseminating information about Unesco. India was  well equipped to use any films and exhibitions that  Unesco might provide and, indeed, ranked second  in world film production.
(42) Mr, RAADI (Iran) was in favour of lcaving it  to each country to decide how it could best  contribute to promoting international understanding,  by drawing on the resources of its own history and  literature.
(43) In Iran, the National Commission and the  United Nations Committee were about to form a  working party, whose task would be to select  outstanding themes which could be traced back  thousands of years and might serve the cause of  international vnderstanding.
(44) The delegate of Iran hoped that, when the time  came, the Secretariat would help in that undertaking.
(453 Mr, SUZUKI (Japan) thought it important that  Unesco, in sending the National Commissions  publications, films and exhibiticn material to assist  them in organizing national manifestations, should  take the special conditions and needs of each  Member State into account.
(46) Mr. FAWZI (Egypt) pointed out to the  Secretariat that, if the National Commissions were  chosen as the principal liaison agencies, the result  might be to restrict the scope of possible contacts  with a country considerably.
(47) To take Egypt as an example, where the  National Commission's headquurters were in Cairo,  a big international, intellectual centre such as  Alexandria was almost completely cut off from  manifestations which might spread knowledge of  the aims and activities of Unesco.   PROGRAMME AND
(48) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  assured the delegates who had spoken that the  secretariat had carefully noted their suggestions and  recommendations and would do its best to put them  into practice.
(49) Referring especially to the statement of the  Egyptian delegate, Mr. Maheu pointed out that most  of the National Commissions were administrative  bodies, centralized and often understaffed. It was  undesirable for the Secretariat to feel obliged to  co-operate too strictly and exclusively with National  Commissions in the work of mass communication,  thereby setting up a barrier between Unesco and the  many information centres (particularly in the  provinces) which were not closely linked with the  National Commission.
(50) While not wishing to minimize what a National  Commission could do, he did think it desirable to  work out a flexible procedure in each country  whereby direct contact with information agencies  outside the capital would be made possible. The  Secretariat would thus have a wider field of action.
(51) Sections B and C (paragraphs 21-24) were  approved unanimously.  D. Direct action by Member States (paragraphs
(52) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commission)  formed the Commission that the Advisory Com-  mittee (document 8C/BUD/1, page 17) had  recommended a reduction of appropriations under  that head to $10, 000 for the two years and the placing  of the entire project in Category 3.
(53) Mr. HACQUAERT (Belgium) drew the attention  of Member States represented on the Commission  to a Belgian scheme which had proved inexpensive  and most effective. He referred to the production of  filmstrips from exhibition material supplied by  Unesco, which had provided means of reaching  hundreds of schools whose pupils were themselves  unable to visit the exhibitions.
(54) Mr. ESTELRICH (Spain) observed that, if  Unesco's propaganda were to be effective, simple  and economical, it should take advantage of the  closest possible contacts with Member States and  the maximum strengthening of National Commissions.
(55) To that end, Spain placed her cultural develop-  ment centres at Unesco's disposal to co-operate  in activities which Unesco, even at great expense and  difficulty, could not carry out successfully by itself.
(56) Mr. ESTABLE (Uruguay) was of opinion that  the Charter of the United Nations and the Constitution  of Unesco should be taught in every country, in the  same way as the national constitution.
(57) Unesco had a noble and lifelong, but extremely  difficult mission, requiring universal understanding  and sympathy; it called for the efforts of many and  the selfless devoiion of the chosen few, fanatical in  the cause of justice, education and culture for the  good of all mankind.
(58) Unesco undoubtedly had a contribution to make  to the blending of human traditions. It would be a  - 449 -     BUDGET COMMISSION IV-26  sublime achievement, for 1t was a sign of the  noblest form of patriotism to seek to make the best  human traditions the strongest traditions in each  country, and to ensure that human ideals took  precedence over the ideals of individual nations.
(59) Unesco was an expression of the spirit of the  New World, in which all traditions and inclinations  were happily blended.
(60) Mr. IBANEZ GOMEZ (Chile) remarked that  while the Courier was a very useful publication for  Latin American countries, information by radio  left something to be desired, he would therefore  suggest that some of the material for broadcasting  should be sent only to cultural bodies with a  broadcasting service.
(61) Mr. HARDY (United States of America) strongly  supported the Advisory Committee's recommendation  on paragraphs 25-28. The reduced budget of  $10, 000 for the two years would still be an adequate  financial basis for the activity envisaged by Unesco,  and even a much larger sum could have little effect  on action by Member States when divided between  seventy countries.
(62) Mr. DUERING (Sweden) drew attention to the  recommendations of the Expert Committee for  Education on International Understanding and Co-  operation. The Committee had noted that many  National Commissions were developing valuable  techniques for promoting international understanding  and had instanced "Unesco Weeks" in Sweden. The  Expert Committee had been divided 1n opinion  concerning the activities referred to in paragraph
27, and the Swedish delegation supported the United  States delegation in advocating the adoption of the  Advisory Committee's recommendation that the  budgetary allocation should be reduced to $10, 000  and used solely for clearing house activities,  information services and general collaboration with  National Commissions. It was for Member Staies  to take the initiative in such activities as celebrating  Unesco's tenth birthday.
(63) Dr. MUDALIAR (India) supported the recom-  mendation of the Advisory Committee and the views  of the delegates of the United States of America and  Sweden.
(64) Unesco would serve a more useful purpose by  circulating information on the activities of Member  States than by trying to stretch a small budget to  activities by the Organization, Member States must  use their own methods of propaganda, but they would  appreciate information from other Members and  from the Secretariat.
(65) A vote was taken on the Advisory Committee's  recommendation to reduce the budgetary allocation  to $10, 000.
(66) The recommendation was unanimously approved.  Project 5.2: Public information and promotion of  international understanding by Unesco and documents
8C/DR/19 and 20
(67) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commission)  said that the Advisory Committee did not recommend   IV-26 PROGRAMME AND  the adoption of 8C/DR/19, but recommended that
8C/DR/20 be included as a directive to the Director-  General for the 1955-56 programme.
(68) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) said that the  Board had considered 8C/DR/19 in three parts, and  made the following recommendations:
1. Central Educational Films Library: there  were neither adequate funds available nor sufficient  justification to merit approval of the project at the  present time.
2. Scripts: not recommended.
3. Survey of Broadcasting: it was not necessary  to take action on the reso!ution, since the proposed  activity was already being performed by Unesco and  was provided for in the draft prograinme for 1955-56.
(69) The Board recommended the adoption of
8C/DR/20 because it involved no additional outlay and  would give emphasis to Unesco's work.
(70) Dr. MUDALIAR (India), while not supporting  document 8C/DR/19, asked if the Director-General  could consider the possibility of circulating to all  Member States a list of available educational films  and how copies could be obtained. He also proposed  that the survey of broadcasting should be continued  so that the Director-General couid provide additional  information for the next General Conference.
(71) Mr, DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  munication) assured the delegate of India that the  Secretariat would act on his two suggestions. The  survey of broadcasting was indeed a permanent  activity of the Organization. With regard to  resolution 8C/DR/20, the Secretariat would see that  due emphasis was given wherever possible.
(72) Dr. MUDALIAR (India) withdrew his two  resolutions.
(73) Mr. FRIEDMAN (ORT World Union) proposed  an addition to the work plans under resolution 5. 2,  to read as follows:  "I. Co-operation with non-governmental  organizations. Non-governmental organizations  having consultative arrangements with Unesco will  be requested to invite their national associations,  using all the means at their disposal, to give publicity  to the principles and achievements of Unesco".  A. Co-operation with the Press (paragraphs 37-42)
(74) Mr. DE SALIS (Chairman of the Working Party  on Mass Communication) stated that the Working  Party had debated whether the Department of Mass  Communication was the right place for the Press  Analysis Section, and had unanimously decided that  it was.
(75) Mr. TERROU (France) asked the Secretariat if  it would guarantee that Unesco would not, in imple-  menting that part of the programme, try to compete  with national press agencies, but that, on the contrary,  it would co-operate with them whenever possible.
(76) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  munication) assured the French delegate that he had  - 450 -     BUDGET COMMISSION  no cause for alarm. The Department of Mass  Communication had, for over a year, been working  in close collaboration with national, and in some  cases even with the big international, press agencies.
(77) The aim of the Press Section was to supply  information other than that of topical interest to news-  papers whose staff writers could not produce enough  to fill their general columns.
(78) However, the Department was of course only  too glad to provide any national or international  agency with topical items when requested to do so.
(79) Section A was unanimously approved.  B. The Unesco Courier (paragraphs 43-46)
(80) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commission)  read out the relevant recommendation of the Advisory  Committee (document 8C/BUD/1, page 18).
(81) Mr. DE SALIS (Chairman of the Working Party  on Mass Communication) explained that the Working  Party had been asked to consider two aspects of the  question: first, the usefulness and financial situation  of the Courier, and second, the possibility of  substituting some other publication for it.
(82) The Working Party had been impressed by the  pains that had been taken to improve the appearance  and the contents of the Courier, and had unanimously  recommended that it be continued, despite the con-  siderable financial burden entaiied; it based its  views on the following considerations:  (a) the merits of the Courier;  (b) the undesirability of bringing the distribution  campaign, which was still in progress, to an  abrupt end;  (c) the fact that the substitution of any other  publication would probably cost just as much.
(83) Mr. BENDER (Netherlands) said that in his  country the Courier was considered indispensable.  Sales were increasing rapidly and it was used for  language teaching in secondary schocl!s. He was,  however, shocked by the high cost and asked how  many copies were printed annually. He heartily  supported the publication and hoped that it would be  continued, but urged that efforts should be made to  reduce the cost.
(84) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  munication) said that the circulation was now over
25,000, details of which would be found in document
(85) Mr. FORSYTH (New Zealand) was in agreement  with the delegate of the Netherlands. It was true that
1t could not be considered a commercial success, but  it was one of Unesco's finest vehicles of indirect  propaganda. It was an invaluable source of informa-  tion for members of National Commissions, who in  lectures and speeches were able to pass on its  contents to a wide public. In his opinion, therefore,  its commercial losses were in a large measure  compensated by its propaganda value.
(86) Mr. KETRZYNSKI (Poland) considered that an  organization like Unesco should have its own review.   PROGRAMME AND  Even if it were very costly, the Courier had aiready  gained a considerable number of readers, and had  proved its worth.
(87) The problem at present was to know how to  make it more successful commercially, without  pandering to public taste of a certain kind, or  towering its standards. What Unesco required was  an instrument for the dissemination of the ideas for  which the Organization stood.
(88) The Polish Jelegation thought that the Courier  should devote more space to the international  exchange of ideas and the expression of different  cultures, and should ask well-known spécialists in  the various fields to contribute. With that end in  view, the Polish delegation would support the  Working Party's recommendations.
(89) Mr. BARBEY (Switzerland) drew attention to  the fact that the Courier was arousing increasing  interest, owing both to the new 1deas underlying it  and to its improved layout. [t no longer attracted  readers almost exclusively from the teaching pro-  fession. It should and could, by now, appeal to the  general public, and the Swiss delegation would be  interested to hear the opinion of the Secretariat on  the prospect of such a development.
(90) Mr. HACQUAERT (Belgium) agreed with the  remarks of the Polish and Swiss delegates.
(91) He thought, however, that the Courier might  well include articles of topical interest, provided  that they were presented from an angle different  from that in the world press.
(92) He expressed his pleasure at the increase in  subscriptions, although he continued to think that  the number could be still further increased if the  periodical were on sale at bookshops, of a less  academic kind, which normally stocked larger  numbers of newspapers and periodicals.
(93) Mr. PANNETON (Canada) pointed out that the  Courier could not be judged by the same standards  as the outside press. Its purpose was clear only  when considered in the light oo Unesco's own aims.
(94) The Secretariat should, however, set itself  the twofold aim of reducing the cost price without  lowering the quality, and of securing the widest  possible distribution through National Commissions.
(95) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  munication) had paid great attention to the  suggestions made, and thought that the Department  would be able to use them in the coming months.
(96) With reference to the distribution of the  Courier, Mr. Desjardins informed the Commission  that the Sales and Distribution Division was engaged  in a complete review of the question of agents,  concurrently with its endeavours to increase the  number of subscriptions.
(97) In reply to the Polish delegate, Mr. Desjardins  assured him that, in seeking to increase the sale of  the Courier, neither the standard of its contents nor  the quality of its presentation would ever be lowered,  out that an attempt would be made to make it more  alive,
(88) Section B was approved.  - 451 -     BUDGET COMMIBBION 1V-26  (D) Joint information mission (paragraphs 49-50)
(99) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commission)  said that the Advisory Committee recommended  placing this project in Category 3.
(100) Approved.  (E) Co-operation with radio organizations  (paragraphs 51-53)
(101) Unanimously approved.  (F) Production of recorded radio programmes  {paragraphs 54-64)
(102) Approved.  (G) Exhibitions (paragraphs 65-67)
(103) Mr. LEFRANC (France), after paying tribute  to the quality of past exhibitions, proposed that the  Secretariat explore the possibility of making more  effective use of visual aids in the production and  dist nbution of exhibition material.
(104) However successful they might be, even  travelling exhibitions only reached a relatively small  public.
(105) By using filmstrips or short films on the same  subjects as those of the exhibitions, an infinitely  larger number of people could be reached, whether  such visual aids were shown in conjunction with the  exhibitions or were circulated indepen lently.
(106) An experiment of the kind had been tried out  in France with great success, and Unesco would be  well advised to follow that example.
(107) Mr. DUERING (Sweden) asked if the principles  set out in the report of the Expert Committee on  Education for Interrational Understanding and Co-  operation (page 11 of document 8C/DIV/80), which  had been endorsed by the Advisory Committee on  Programme and Budget, could be recommended for  adoption as general criteria for Unesco in setting up  exhibitions.
(108) Mr. BRANCA (Italy) fully endorsed the  remarks of the delegate of France.
(109) He added, however, that visual aids played  such an important part in spreading Unesco's main  themes that more money ought tobe set aside for them.
(110) Mr. HARDY (United States of America) sup-  ported the proposal of the delegate of Sweden. The  criteria would beusefultoalldepartments in Unesco.
(111) The CHAIRMAN said that the proposal had  been noted by the Director of the Department.
(112) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  asked Mr. Branca if he had understood him correctly  in assuming that the Italian delegation wished to see  the visual aids division reinforced.
(113) Replying in the affirmative, Mr. BRANCA  (Italy) advocated that the projects referred to in  paragraphs 72 and 74 be given a higher priority than
1V-26 PROGRAMME AND BUDGET COMMISSION  that recommended by the Advisory Committee, and  that they be included at the normal instead of the  higher budgetary levei.
(114) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  replied that there was no longer any distinction  between normal and higher budgetary levels, but that  increased staff for the division would obviously entail  changes in the budget.
(115) He asked the Commission if it wished for  details immedi-tely, or if it would rather the Secre-  tariat first studied the question and then communi-  cated 1ts new suggestions by way of the Advisory  Committee when the time came to make the final  budgetary adjustments.
(116) Mr. BENDER (Netherlands) said that, in  considering staffing implications, it would be useful  for the Director-General to bear in mind the  budgetary reduction under paragraphs 25-28,
(117) Mr. LEFRANC (France) supported the proposal  of the delegate of Italy and agreed with the procedure  suggested by the Assistant Director-General.
(118) Paragraphs 65-67 were approved unanimously.  ÆH) Photographs on Unesco themes (paragraphs
(119) Approved unanimously.  (I) Production of a film (paragraphs 72 and 73)
(120) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commis-  sion) said that the Advisory Committee recommended  placing this project in Category 3.
(121) Dr. MUDALIAR (India) said that "World  Without End" was still being shown and there was no  urgent need for a new film at th oresent time. He  proposed that the project should be placed in  Category 4.
(122) The proposal was supported by the delegate  of Egypt.
(123) The CHAIRMAN asked for a vote =n the  proposal to defer the project for consideration by  the ninth General Conference.
(124) The proposal was adopted unammously.  (J) Film showings in Member States (paragraphs
74 and 75)
(125) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commis-  sion) said that the Advisory Committee recommended  placing this project in Category 3.  - 452 -
(126) The recommendation of the Advisory  Committee was adopted.  (K) Prizes for films and film scenarios (paragraphs
76 and 17)
(127) Mr. CHEVALIER (Sccretary of the Commis-  sion) said that the Advisory Committee recommended  placing this project in Category 4. The Committee  had come to the conclusion that the activity concerned  was not calculated to give effective encouragement  to the production of films and scenarios nn human  rights; it therefore proposed that it be deleted from  the proposed programme for 1955-56.
(128) Mr. LEFRANC (France) deplored such a  hasty decision. Inthe field of cinema, as in many  other spheres, one of the weaknesses of the Secre-  tariat's action was that it was not in close enough  touch with film people. That the project was likely  to be of great interest to professional circles was  proved by the promise of support received from the  Secretary-General of the French Film Producers’  Union and by a letter from Mr. Orson Welles, from  which the French delegate proceeded to read a  number of extracts.
(129) Mr. NIELSEN (Denmark) said that, 1f Unesco  offered prizes for film scenarios, commercial  comnanies would no doubt be willing to produce the  winning ones without cost to Unesco. There would,  however, be a serious danger in that Unesco would  have no :nfluence on the final form of the film, which  might be very different in character from the  original scenario. Any films produced as a result  of the project would be accepted by the public as  Unesco products, and there would be no safeguard  for Unesco's reputation. It would be wiser to offer  prizes for films which had already been made.
(130) Mr. HARDY (United States of America) sup-  ported the sound reasoning of the Advisory Committee  and proposed that the project should be deleted from  the programme,
(131) Mr. BARBEY (Switzerland) heartily endorsed  the remarks of the delegate of France.
(132) Such prizes would indeed encourage the  production of documentary films on Unesco's main  themes, and :t might also be a good 1dea for Unesco  in the same way tn express its approval of big films  which, in their time, advanced the cause of peace  and international understanding such as "The Great  Illusion’ and "The Last Chance", to quote only two.
(133) Mr. MENDIS (Ceylon} supported the French  proposal. The objections which had been advanced  were not senous and 1t was worth retaining the  allocation in paragraph 77.
(134) Mr. BRANCA (Italy) reminded the Commission  that the Advisory Committee had taken its decision   PROGRAMME AND  on that point before learning of the conclusions  reached by the Working Party on the Reorganization  of the Department of Mass Communication; the  Advisory Committee's recommendation was thus  deprived of a great deal of its weight.  {135) There was a flagrant contradiction between the  wish, so often expressed, to broaden the scope of  the Department's activities, and the abrupt with-  drawal of some of its largest appropriations.
(136) The Italian delegation was In complete agree-  ment with the delegates of France and Switzerland  in advocating the retention of the prizes, which  could not fail to encourage the production of films  likely to direct the public's attention to the main  themes and high 1deals of the Organization,  {137) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  wished to return to film questions when the  Commission had taken a decision on items, 1, J  and K.
(138) The delegates of the United Kingdom and  Egypt heartily supported the recommendations of  the Advisory Committee and vigorously opposed the  point of view of the delegate of France, whereas  BUDGET COMMISSION     - 453 -  IV-26  the delegate of Turkey thoroughly endorsed the  latter's view and pressed for the award of such  prizes in 1958.
(139) Mr. SANDOVAL VALLARTA (Mexico)  proposed that the two kinds of prizes referred to  in paragraph 76 be considered separately.
(140) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  saw no objection to taking a separate vote on prizes  for scenarics, ($7, 300) on one hand and for films  ($1, 200) on the other.
(141) The deletion of appropriations for prizes for  film scenarios, recommended by the Advisory  Committee, was approved by 27 votes to 6, with 6  abstentions.
(142) The deletion 0! appropriations for prizes for  films, recommended by the Advisory Committee,  ware approved by 17 votes to 13.  The meeting rose at 1 p.m.