IV-16 PRYGRANME AND BUDGET COMMISSION  SI TEENTH MEETING
29 November 1951 at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman: Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland)
(1) The CHAIRMAN, after explaining how the  remaining meetings of the Commission were to be  allotted in order to complete the examination of the  programn e, hoped that, at the next session of the  General Conference, the Programme and Budget  Commission might begin work during che first week  of the session. He proposed 'o submit a resolution  to that effect to the Conference.  ITEM 8.4.2 OF REVISED \GHNDA NATURAL SCLENCES  (continued)  (Paragraphs 56-58)
(2) As paragraphs 42-48 and 54-55 were to be  heid over for later onsideration, the CHAIRMAN  opened discussion on resolution 2 121.
(3) Mr ANGELL (United States of America) con-  s dere. ‘ka: the vrojec. outlined in the resolution was  of less importance ‘han resslutions concerning pure  scierce. The pro; sed work could be dune by  national efforts He 1° posed that the Commission  recommend to the Director-General that a reduction  he ‘rade nn that project and the money thereby saved  ised for projects on pure science.
147 Mr CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commission)  read out the proposal of the Advisory Committee  thoi the project for the establishment of terminol-  ogi.’ bureaux be placed in Category 3.
(5) The CHAIRMAN observed that the suggestion was  tn line with that made by the United States delegate.
(6) Mr AL- KOLSSI (Egypt) intimated that the  Arabic-speaking countries would be holding a con-  terence in September 1955 on scientific problems  and that the -genta included the question of scientific  terminology in Arahic He wished to know whether  Unesco would co-operate in that conference.
(7) Mr AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) replied that, after considering the Advisory  Commitiee's recomm endation about the terminology  bureaux, he had discussed the question with the  Egyptian and Indonesian delegations, and several  delegates had expressed a wish that the scale of the  project be reduced rather than that it be abandoned.
(8) The Director-General therefore proposed  simply to provide aid to Member States, which  would mean sending experts to some of them -  in particular, Egypt and Indonesia - to help  them 1n working out terminology. Assistance  - 370 -     of that kind would require only half the sum  budgeted for
(39) Th’ CHAIRMAN asked whether any delegation  would like to submit a proposal along those lines.
(10) Mr. JOHANNES (Indonesia) asked whether the  project came under general activities or special  activities. If it came under general activities, the  Indonesian Government would appreciate help from  Unesco for translation into Indonesian.
(11) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) pointed out that the Indonesian delegate's  proposal was equivalent to placing the project in  Category 2 and that it was for the Commission to  decide on that point.
(12) The proposal was seconded by the delegate of  Egypt.
(13) The CHAIRMAN said that the Secretariat agreed  to the transfer of the item, and put the pt oposal to  the vote, with the appropriation of $6,000 a year  suggested by Mr. Auger.
(14) Approved.  SECTION II 2.2 - Contribution to research,  particularly for the improvement of the economic  and social conditions of mankind  (Paragraphs 59-63)
(15) Mr. SANDOVAL VALLARTA (Mexico) said that  he would take the necessary steps to secure ratifi-  cation by the Mexican Government of the Convention  for the establishment of the International Computation  Centre.
(16) Mr. SEVERI (Italy) was very glad to hear that  Mexico was to join the International Computation  Centre.
(17) He reminded the meeting that Rome had been  selected for the Centre's headquarters and that a  preparatory committee was already arranging for the  first general assembly of Member States. The  committee had premises at the headquarters of the  National Research Council and provision had heen  made for a new building. Draft regulations were  being drawn up and a comparative study of calculating  machines had been undertaken, the results of which  would be communicated to Unesco.
(18) Mr. Sever: ment;vned that Italy did not wish to  be in charge of the Centre and considered that the   PROGRAMME AND  appointment of a director of another nationality would  help to give the Centre a more international character.
(19) He also mentioned that, owing to lack of funds  for recruiting qualified staff, the preparatory com-  mittee had been obliged to refuse the offer of several  electronic machines to be supplied free of charge.  {20) The Italian delegate deplored the decision taken  by the Advisory Committee on Programme and Bud-  get to transform the subvention originally proposed  into a loan. His delegation would like the subvention  for which provision had been made 1n the 1953-54  budget, and which had been agreed in principle by the  Executive Board, to be put back into the budget for
1955-56. Without a minimum sum at its disposal the  nreparatory committee would not be able to perform  the task entrusted to it.
(21) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) said that the  Executive Board was extremely interested in the  project. At its thirty-sixth session 1t had proposed  the creation of the Advisory Committee on Research.
(22) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) pointed out that the  Commission was once more faced with a project  undertaken at Unesco's suggestion and with its | elp;
1t would be foolish for the Organization to equivocate  over giving the Centre the funds needed for running it.
(23) He supported the request of the Itahian delegate.
(24) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) said that his  Government was prepared to give its whole-hearted  support to the implementation of the project, and was  making arrangements, through its Natinnal Council  for Scientific Research, to ratify the convention for  the establishment of the Centre.
(25) In reply to a question from the CHAIRMAN, Mr.  AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences)  explained that the Advisory Committee had recom-  mended that contracts totalling $3, 000 be gran:ed to  the preparatory committee for the two years.
(26) Mr. SE VERI (Italy) recalled that the sum  originally contemp.ated was $5, 009 and deplored the  suggested reduction, which would prevent the Cer tre  from recruiting specialized staff capable of ope. ating  the machines offered to 1t.  {27) He observed that, as soon as it began work, the  Centre would have the support of many countries  which already possessed national computation certres.
(28) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) said that the  Executive Board had recommended approval of the  resolution contained in document 8C/DR/29 to the  General Conference because it wished to give the  Centre a chance to make its preparations while await-  ing the ten ratifications.
(29) Mr. LAUGIER (France), on behalf of his  delegation, hoped that Unesco would support the  International Computation Centre for as long as neces-  sary. He pointed out the importance of the work  undertaken by the preparatory committee, both in the  technical sphere and in that of scientific research.
(30) Although most large countries already  possessed calculating machines, many smaller  countries had nct yet been able to procure them.  - 371 -     BUDUET COMMISSION IV-16  The Centre met a need for international  co-operation.
(31) He thought it quite impossible for Unesco to  abandon a body which it had helped to found and  which was destined to become a centre of mathema-  tical thought.
(32) Mr. Laug:er therefore supported the Italian  delegate's proposal, and urged that the $5, 000 be  granted to the Centre in the form of a subvention  instead of a loan.
(33) The delegate of Uruguay also supported the  proposal.
(34) It was then put to the vote and approved by 35  votes, with 7 abstentions.  Project 2.21: International Advisory Committee on  Research in the Natural Sciences
(35) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commission)  read out a draft resolution submitted by the  Uruguayan delegation (document 8C/DR/54), together  with the Advisory Committee's recommendation that  consideration of the proposal be postpcned until a  later session of the Conference.
(36) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) said that the  Executive Board, 1n consultation with the Secretariat,  had decided to consider documents 8C/DR/35,
8C/DR/54 and 8C/DR/60 together. It had recom-  mended approval of the resolutions contained in  documents 8C/DR/35 and 8C/DR/54 but had suggested  that the proposal contained in document 8C/DR/60 be  deferred until the ninth session of the General  Conference.
(37) The Advisory Committee's proposal with regard  to draft resolution 8C/DR/54 was approved.
(38) The CHAIRMAN requested the Commission to  examune draft resolution 2. 21.
(39) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) suggested  that the first clause of resolution 2.21 be amended  to read: "In order .o contribute to scientific research,  particularly for the improvement of the biological,  economic and social conditions of mankind... "
(40) Dr. MUDALIAR (India) said that the Indian  Government considered the project concerning special  scientific research was one of great importance. He  felt, however, that it should include research on  lagoons and coastal areas.
(41) Mr. ESTELRICH (Spain) said that in the Cajal  Institute, Spain possessed one of the most up-to-date  neuro-biological research centres, where techniques  of the highest value were being developed. It was  proposed to transform that national institute into an  international neuro-biological centre and he sug-  gested that, when the time came, the National  Commission should get into touch with the Secretariat.
(42) Mr. ANGELL (United States of America) was  surprised at the high figure given in paragraph 64  for staff costs.   PROGRAMME AND IV-16
(43) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) explained that the staff in question did not  work exclusively for the International Committee on  Research in the Natural Sciences Programme, but  divided their time between the committee and assis-  tance to scientific research, for which provision was  made in draft resolution 2.22. If the total sum pro-  posed for the two projects were approved by the  Commission, it might be advisable to reconsider the  amounts allotted to each of them.
(44) Mr. JOHANNES (Indonesia) proposed that the  words "or other appropriate bodies designated by  the National Commission of the State concerned"  should be added after the words "National Research  Councils" in line 4 of resolution 2.21, because some  countries had no national research councils.
(45) Mr. ABEYWICKREMA (Ceylon) seconded the  Indonesian proposal. Countries like Ceylon hal  several scientific research institutes but no research  council as yet. For maintaining contacts with such  countries that amendment was necessary.
(46) Mr. PAGE (Canada) supported resolution 2.21  in principle but suggested that the International  Advisory Committee should be more selective in the  werk it undertook.
(47) The CHAIRMAN asked for a vote on the amend-  ments to resolution 2. 21, proposed by the delegates  of Braz:l and Indonesia.
(48) Approved.
(49) Resolution 2. 21 was approved with those two  amendments.  Resolution 2.22: Assistance to scientific research
(50) The CHAIRMAN intimated that draft resolutions  concerning item 2. 22 had been submitted by the  delegations of France (document 8C/DR/1), India  (document 8C/DR/9 rev.) and Japan (document
8C/DR/32 rev.). As the three drafts could be com-  bined into a single text, the Chairman asked whether  such a text had been drafted.
(51) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) said that the Japanese delegation had  prepared the new draft; it was being reproduced and  would be examined later; if approved, it would  become resolution 2. 221.
(52) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commission)  read out the recommendation of the Advisory Com-  mittee that top priority be given to project 2. 22.  (A) Arid zone (paragraphs 76-84)
(53) Mr. IBANEZ GOMEZ (Chile) pointed out that  the study of arid zones was of great importance to  his country and he hoped that Chile would be included  in such a study. Much of its territory was  unfit for cultivation, and through studies of that  kind very extensive areas could be brought into  production.  BUDGET COMMISSION
(54) Referring to paragraph 81, he urged that the  reports to be published should appear not only in  French and English but also in Spanish.
(55) Mr. LEROY (France) observed that paragraph
79 provided for the publication in English of the  proceedings of the symposium on wind and solar  energy, While he recognized that English was a  universal language, he deplored the fact that the  work in question and certain others already published  on allied subjects were not to be published in French  also, for they might well be of interest to the French  Union.
(56) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) explained that the text was at fault on the  point and that the publication was to be bilingual,  with the English and French speeches reproduced in  the original language. The system had already been  used on several occasions when the two languages  had been employed at a meeting.
(57) Mr. LEROY (France) also asked that, whenever  a publication appeared in one language only, it  should always be in the author's own language.
(58) Sir John SIMONSEN (United Kingdom) thought  that, as Unesco had limited resources, it should  concentrate on major projects. He approved the  proposal for research fellowships in paragraph 83.  Such fellowships would be useful in conveying infor-  mation from area to area.
(59) Mr. TOROCHESHNIKOV (Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics) said that the Soviet Union  attached great importance to the arid zone question  and felt that it should be placed in Category I. It  was important to study the nature of the causes in  order to prevent the creation of further arid zones.  By undertaking studies in a series of regions data  would be collected which would be important in the  improvement of living conditions in arid areas. He  assumed that the Director-General would carry out  that important research work with the assistance of  the ccuntries concerned.
(60) In the Soviet Union much irrigation work had  transformed a series of arid areas into fertile  regions. In addition, the question of drought had  been solved in limited areas by utilizing the water  from small rivers to form reservoirs which could  serve larger areas.
(61) Another significant factor in the problem of  drought was deforestation. The Soviet Union had  undertaken large schemes of reafforestation in an  attempt to avoid the drought menace. The work  should, however, not be limited to questions relating  to flora and fauna but should attempt to conquer the  whole problem of turning arid zones into fertile  regions.
(62) He hoped that the Director-General would select  specialists for arid zcne research who were  interested in combating the whole arid zone problem.
(63) Mr. ANGELL (United States of America) con-  sidered the resolu.ion very important. He would  support any additional help given to the project if it  were in line with the policy of concentration of the    - 372 -   PROGRAMME AND  piogramme. He was prepared to accept a reduction  with regard to the projects on the humid tropical  zone, the money thus saved being allocated to the  arid zone project.
(64) Mr. PAGE (Canda) supported the remarks made  by the United States delegate. While not denying the  usefulness of the projects included under resolution
2.22, he thought there were too many of them. In  his onizion Unesco should concentrate on the arid  zn e project and ~onsider the possibility of releasing  fu is from other projects for that purpose.
(65. Mr. STEINIG (United Nations) assume that the  wor k of the United Nations on water control, drought,  etc. was known to members of the Commission and  said that it bore a close relationship to the projects  outlined in resolution 2.22. Committees of the  Economic and Social Council were studying problems  of the arid zone and humid tropical zone and had  published their first findings. He assured the Com-  mission that Unesco would be regularly informed of  developments on projects undertaken by the United  Nations in those fields.
(66) Mr. THA HLA (Union of Burma) proposed re-  jection of the United States suggestion that work on  the humid tropical zone should be suspended and that  the funds saved should go towards arid zone research.
(57; The CHAIRMAN said that a recommendation to  that effect had been made, but it did not provide for  transferring the funds from paragraph 88 to para-  graph 84.
(68) Mr. STANKOVIC (Yugoslavia), on behalf of his  delegation, supported the draft resolution (document
8C/DR/98) on the semi-arid zones of the Mediter-  ranean, submitted by the Italian delegation.
(69) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) explained that the Advisory Committee on  Arid Zone Research habitually covered the semi-arid  regions, many of which were in process of becoming  arid.
(70) Mr. SEVERI (Italy) said that he had already  cleared up the matter unofficially with Mr. Auger,  and the Italian delegation would not press for a vote  on the resolution it had submitted. Furthermore,  it seemed to him that, since the countries of  southern Europe - Greece, Italy, Spain - had been  mentioned as possessing arid zones, Yugoslavia  might well be added to them.
(71) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) said that France itself had been the scene  of studies by the Advisory Committee on the Arid  Zone, which had sent a mission to the Montpellier  area.
(72) The CHAIRMAN read out a recommendation by  the Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget  that the draft resolution (document 8C/DR/59) sub-  mitted by the Belgian delegation be rejected.
(73) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) said that his  - 373 -     BUDGET COMMISSION IV-16  delegation was willing to withdraw its  proposal.
(74) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) noted that paragraph 94, which provided  for a general study of given arid regions, met the  wishes of the Belgian delegation.  (B) Humid tropical zone (paragraphs 85-88)
(75) Mr. ABEYWICKREMA (Ceylon) strongly  opposed the suggestion to postpone work on humid  tropical zone research, giving reasons. He con-  sidered that plans could be drawn up immediately,  but suggested that it should be done in a different  way from that proposed in the programme. He  proposed that Unesco should ask the National Com-  missions to study the problem in their own countries,  telling them what kind of information was required.  He was prepared to give a note on the nature of that  information to the Secretariat. The following year a  meeting of specialists, including experts from the  Food and Agriculture Organization, the International  Labour Office and the World Health Organization,  could be held to consider reports, and from those  reports, a work plan could be drawn up for consi-  deration by the minth session of the General  Conference.
(76) If more money than was required for the above  should be available, he would suggest that the work  be done on a regional basis, the regions involved  being Central America, Central Africa, South and  South East Asia.
(77) He proposed that an immediate start be made.  If the work were postponed, parts of the humid zone  would in time become semi-arid and the problem  would be larger than ever.
(78) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commission)  read out the recommendations of the Advisory  Committee on Programme and Budget that the execu-  tion of the humid tropical zone programme be  postponed for a year.
(79) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) recalled  that in 1946 he had made a proposal to Unesco for  the establishment of an International Institute of the  Hylean Amazon. The project had been adopted and  extensive studies had been carried out with the  co-operation of several international organizations  and assistance from experts. À convention had been  drawn up and signed by 9 States situated in humid  tropical regions, but political considerations had  prevented its ratification. After that setback, the  Brazilian Government had itself, through its  National Council for Scientific Research, founded a  research institute in the Amazon region. The work  had thus not been interrupted and the scientific data  collected by the Institute of the Hylean Amazon,  which were considered to be of great value by the  experts who had examined them, had not been wasted.
(80) The Brazilian delegate thought it would be a  pity to postpone the proposed work for a year or two,  particularly as an advisory committee would not run  up against the political obstacles which had prevented  the Institute of the Hylean Amazon from continuing  in being.   IV-16 PROGRAMME AND
(81) He therefore supported the proposal by the  delegate of Ceylon.
(82) Dr. MUDALIAR (India) endorsed the remarks  by the delegate of Ceylon, agreeing that the problem  needed immediate attention. He concurred with the  suggestion that the National Commissions should  study the problem and make reports. He hoped that  the Secretariat would be able to prepare a plan along  those lines.
(83) He suggested that the National Commissions be  permitted to designate the experts for those studies.
(84) Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia) supported the  proposal by the delegate of Ceylon.
(85) The humid ‘ropical zone was an area which was
90% utilized for growing rubber.: The natural  consequence of increasing the supplies of rubber was  that less space was available for growing food. He  suggested that action be taken before the problem  became out of control.
(86) Mr. THA HLA (Union of Burma) supported the  proposal of ‘he delegate of Ceylon that there should  be no postponement. He thought that the point made  by the delegate of Liberia concerning the ever-  increasing acreage being taken up by rubber  plantations was important. There were innumerable  problems of the kind which had an important bearing  not only from the economic point of view generally  but especially from the point of view of growing food.
(87) He supported the proposal of the delegate of  Ceylon that the resolution should be adopted.
(88) Mr. PAGE (Canada) supported in principle the  proposal contained in document 8C/DR/99, and  would agree to methods being used which would lend  additional financial support to the arid zone project  and ultimately to the humid tropical zone project.  That could be done by suppressing paragraph 88 and  by allocating only the amount proposed for 1956 to  the project proposed in document 8C/DR/99. Both  projects would then be brought Into action in a proper  fashion.
(89) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) appreciated that several delegations were  anxious that a start be made :n 1955 on research on  the humid tropical zone.
(90) He proposed the following solution, which was  based on the original estimates: in 1955 $2, 000  would be spent in the form of contracts with experts  on preparing for the following year's work, and  National Commissions would be asked to take part  in that preparatory work; in 1956, $10,654 would  be allotted to the execution of the project. Thus the  first year would not be wasted.
(91) Mr. ABEYWICKREMA (Ceylon) agreed with  Mr. Auger that the total amount would not be  required in the first year. He suggested that sub-  ventions should be given to scientific co-operation  officers in the first year and a sum of $12,000 be  set aside for a meeting of experts in the second year.
(92) Sir John SIMONSEN (United Kingdom) supported  the remarks made by Mr. Auger. He thought that  - 374     BUDGET COMMISSION  the requirements of British colonies would be met  and that the procedure would lead to a more  satisfactory study for future years.
(93) The CHAIRMAN asxed the Commission to take  a decision on Mr. Auger's suggestion, which met  with the approval of the delegate of Ceylon and had  also been supported by the delegate of the United  Kingdom.
(94) Approved.  (C) Physical oceanography and marine biclogy  (paragraphs 89-91)
(95) Mr. KAYA (Japan), referring to paragraph 89,  hoped that the proposal would be approved and that  the programme of work would become more definite  during the coming two years.
(96) He proposed that the word "physical" be  deleted from the title of the project.
(97) The Japanese delegation had submitted the  resolution contained in document 8C/DR/61 because  it wished to see the establishment of an Advisory  Committee on Oceanographic Research similar to  that which had been established for the arid zone  programme. That Advisory Committee would be  concerned in co-ordinating oceanographic research  in various regions, especially in the Indo-Pacific  region and in Latin America. The Secretariat had  prepared document 8C/PRG/22 which contained all  information necessary for the discussion of the  Japanese draft resolution. It also contained an  amended work plan, with which the Japanese dele-  gation was in complete agreement.
(98) Mr. THA HLA (Union of Burma) expressed  satisfaction that the Director-General had considered  it important to undertake research on oceanography  and marine biology. He feared, however, that the  research as planned might be directed only towards  the deep sea. The Burmese delegation would like to  see it extended to shallow waters.
(99) He proposed that a sentence should be added at  the end of paragraph 89, which would read: "Such  fundamental oceanographic research should include  a study of similar problems in coastal areas and  lagoons’.
(100) Mr. IBANEZ-GOMEZ (Chile) was in favour  of paragraph 89 and agreed with the Japanese  delegate's comments.
(101) He considered it advisable to delete the word  ‘physical’, qualifying "oceanography"; the survey  might then include other subjects.
(102) Any oceanographic research in any part of the  Pacific would form part of a much needed body of  work. It was impossible to understand certain  scientific problems of marine biology without a  knowledge of the ecology of neighbouring and even of  distant areas.
(103) The assistance given by Unesco's Science  Co-operation Centre in Montevideo had made it  possible to determine the basis for future studies  in marine biology and to strengthen the first  institute of the kind to be established in that part of  the continent. A series of marine biological   PROGRAMME AND  stations should be set up to work with it, as unco-  ordinated research was of little practical use.
(104) Mr. AL- KOUSSI (Egypt) warned the  Commission against the danger that energies might  be dissipated in oceanographic research, and urged  that a clearly defined subject, or a specific region,  be chosen for the proposed action by Unesco.
(105) The CHAIRMAN thought he should make it  clear hat the Commission was not being asked to  take a decision on paragraphs 89-91 but on the  amended text appearing in the Annex to document
8C/PRG/22, which had been approved by the Bureau  and the Executive Board of ICSU.
(106) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) said that the  Fxecutive Board had approved the latter text.
(107) Approved.  Higher Budgetary Level  (A) Arid zone (paragraphs 92-100)
(108) Mr. ESTELRICH (Spain) observed that the  arid zones it was proposed to study were those in  Latin America, the Middle East and South Asia. The  Spanish delegation proposed that the Mediterranean  area should also be included, comprising both the  European and the North African shores.
(109) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) saw no scientific objecticn to including the  regions of Southern Spain and North Africa in the  suggested list.
(110) Paragraphs 92-100 were approved.  (B) Campaign against cancer (paragraphs 101 and
(111) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commis-  sion) read out the recommendation of the Advisory  Committee on Programme and Budget that the project  be held over for the 1957-58 programme.
(112) Miss TULCHINSKAIA (Ukrainian Soviet  Socialist Republic) said that her delegation could not  accept the Advisory Committee's recommendation,  and supported the project set forth in the programme.
(113) In her opinion, the problem was the practical  application of the results obtained. Unesco was not  concerned with the causes of cancer. which was the  subject of research by the greatest specialists, but  sheuld play its part in co-ordinating research and  promoting the practical application of results.
(114) Mr. VANECEK (Czechoslovakia) reserved the  rignt to submit detailed proposals, on the problem  later, but wished to state that Czechoslovak scien-  tists would co-operate whole-heartedly in any work  undertaken on the problem of cancer.
(115) Mr. LAUGIER (France) said that France was  profoundly convinced that international institutions  naa responsibilities to fulfi) with regard to the  - 375 -     BUDGET CCMMISSINN IV-16  progress of sciences which alleviated human  sufiering.
(116) France had been the first country to ask the  United Nations to take international action to  encourage scientific research and discovery. At  one of the first meetings of the Economic and Social  Council, the French delegation had submitted a  resolution requesting the Secretary-General of the  United Nations to consult Unesco and the other  Specialized Agencies concerned, and to submit a  general report to the Economic and Social Council  on the establishment of United Nations research  laboratories. The resolution met with more or less  general approval and received 15 votes in favour out  of a total of 18.
(117) The report requested had been written and,  although there were slight differences of opimion on  the methods to be used, 1t was unammously agreed  that the United Nations could not ignore questions of  scientific research and scientific discovery
(118) Unesco's reply was particularly useful and  constructive; in particular it recommended the  establishment of an institute for the study of the  chemistry and biology of self-reproducing substances,  including the study of cancer research.
(119) At the request of the Economic and Social  Council, a joint committee of United Nations and  Unesco experts, bringing together eminent scientists  from different countries, ras held at Unesco House.  In its recommendations, that committee gave a high  place to the foundation of an international institute  for the chemistry and biology of living matter.
(120) Mr. Laugier also recalled a resolution of the  Economic and Social Council dated 14 August 1950,  which made Unesco responsible for initiating action  in that field and requested the Orgaruzation to make  an appraisal in order of priority of the problems of  scientific research referred to in the report of the  committee of scientific experts, and to evaluate the  contribution that existing research centres could  make to the study of those problems.
(121) The French delegate further quoted a resolu-  tion of the International Advisory Committee on  Research in the Natural Sciences Programme,  recommending that a meeting of experts be convened
(1) to consider means for an intensification and  better co-ordination on the national and international  plane of fundamental research relating to cancer,
(2) to recommend a plan of action to WHO and Unesco.
(122) On behalf of his delegation, Mr. Laugier felt  obliged to urge the Commission to join with the  Executive Board in approving the request for the  very modest sums included in the budget, so as to  enable Unesco to fulfil the mission entrusted to it.
(123) He recalled the anxiety felt lest the work of  WHO and Unesco might overlap. If such difficulties  existed, they should, in his opinion, be removed  without delay by the co-ordinating bodies of the  United Nations. But they did not exist, and the two  organizations had shown an excellent spirit of  co-ordination. Mr. Laugier referred to a statement,  made by the representative of WHO to the Advisory  Committee on Research in the Natural Sciences  Programme, that Unesco's rôle was to promote the  progress of basic scientific knowledge, particularly  in the fields of biology, physics and chemistry, which  might prove helpful in the fight against cancer, while   IV-16 PROGRAMME AND  the actual fight was the business of WHO. The  French delegate was convinced that the two organiza-  tions were in a position to undertake concerted action  to overcome that scourge. He solemnly called upon  the Commission tu accept its responsibilities, re-  minding members that the work of all great scientists  came within Unesco's province.
(124) Mr. Laugier went on to say that, if Unesco  postponed its decision, 1t would, for one or more  years, be depriving the whole of mankind of the  international assistance that it had a right to expect  in the struggle against a scourge which was growing  daily more terrible.
(125) The French delegate ended with the hope that  a large majority would vote the Director-General's  proposal.
(126) Mr. BARBEY (Switzerland) spoke on behalf of  one who had no voice in the Commission - the "man  in the street’.
(127) He assumed that the "man in the street' was  anxious to have information about Unesco and con-  sulted the documents available to him. He found in  them general information which made little impres-  sion on him. The "man in the street’ knew that such  scourges as cancer existed, but the information he  could obtain about them was vague and not always  impartial. But if he were to learn that Unesco by  agreement with WHO had undertaken to discover  whether it was possible to co-ordinate research on  that subject for censtructive purposes, he would take  courage and conceive hopes which would draw him  closer to Unesco. At the same time great caution  should be shown in raising such hopes.
(128) Even if Unesco's efforts did not succeed, it  would still redound to the credit of the Organization  to have recognized the importance of the problem  and tried to solve it.
(129) Referring to the sums which Unesco had  agreed to spend on organizing conferences, on pub-  lications, on subventions, and on building its  headquarters, he wondered how the Organization  could refuse the very small sum requested for the  attempt to render an invaluable service to humanity,  and he thought that public opinion would judge its  hesitancy harshly if it knew of it.
(130) The Swiss delegate also considered that Unesco  should not refrain from any action which appealed  to popular sentiment.
(131) He therefore urged the Commission to vote in  favour of the project relating to the campaign  against cancer.
(132) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) assured the  Commission that the Executive Board would gain  fresh inspiration from the moving discussion which  had taken place. Two points were clear,  namely, that human suffering should be pre-  vented and that human resources should be  conserved.
(133) The Executive Board had recommended thate  a sum of $17,680 should be allocated for the project  on the grounds that the campaign against cancer was  of universal importance.
(134) Mr. LI U YING (China) said that his delegation  unreservedly supported the proposal in the draft  - 376 -     BUDGF TT CaMV MISSTION  programme and budget and fully concurred in the  French delegate's views.
(135) He recalled that, at a plenary meeting, he had  advocated the establishment of a cancr institute,  and ne hoped that the suggestion would be accepted.
(136) Mr. PAGE (Canada) felt embarrassed at having  to mention budget limitation, concentration of effort  and publicity after hearing the moving appeals which  had been made. But he considered that the Advisory  Committee had made a sensible recommendation, as
1t would be better for purposes of concentration to  ensure successful completion of a project before  extending the programme. He thought that it was  harmful to Unesco to extend that programme to wider  fields if projects were never completed. Many  other agencies were occupied with work in connexion  with the cancer campaign and Unesco was not in a  position to add sufficiently to the success of the  campaign to make 1t worth starting.
(137) Sir John SIMONSEN (United Kingdom) had  listened with interest to the eloquent appeal to the  emotions made by the French delegate. If Unesco  established an international laboratory for the study  of cancer, it would have to recruit staff from other  existing laboratories and the net increase in cancer  research would be nil. He recalled the decision  taken by the Council of International Organizations  of Medical Sciences that it would be better to use  available funds to help countries set up their own  research unit than itself to set up an international  research unit.
(138) The United Kingdom delegation would oppose  the proposed project and would support the recom-  mendation by the Advisory Committee on Programme  and Budget.
(139) Mr. STANKOVIC (Yugoslavia) reaffirmed his  delegation's interest in every aspect of the cancer  campaign.
(140) He agreed with the French delegate with  regard to co-operation between Unesco and WHO.
(141) He proposed that, in conformity with the  suggestion made by the Director of WHO, the project  under consideration be entitled not "Campaign against  Cancer", but "Basic Research on Cancer".
(142) Mr. SIDDIQI (Pakistan) was of the opinion that  such a project was an activity that belonged to  Unesco, It was of the utmost urgency and could not  be postponed. He proposed that the Director-  General's project should be adopted.
(143) Mr. WIDDOWSON (Union of South Africa) also  felt that he had been put in a difficult position and  was being forced to say whether he was for or  against the cancer campaign. While in sympathy  with the campaign, he wondered +zhether a project  undertaken by Unesco would not overlap the activities  of the World Health Organization. He asked whether  the representative of WHO could make a statement  on the question. Inthe absence of an assurance  that there would be no overlapping, he would vote  against the proposal.
(144) Dr. RIGGINS (World Health Organization) said   PROGRAMME AND  that there could be no duplication in the work of the  two organizations since the competence of the two  bodies had been very clearly defined and their views  on the cancer problem had been set forth by the  representative of WHO at the eighth plenary meeting  on 16 November and could be consulted in the  provisional record.
(145) The Director-General of WHO had also  addressed a letter to the Director-General of Unesco,  which appeared in document 8C/PRG/20 Add. 1,  suggesting that, wherever the phrase "Campaign  against Cancer'' appeared in documents, it would be  more appropriate to use the term “Basic Research  on Cancer".
(146) He emphasized that the World Health Organiza-  tion had been taking an interest in the important  problem of cancer and would continue to do so within  its own purview.
(147) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) wished to  consider the problem from the scientific point of  view.
(148) In the first place, he thought that a project for  which such an insignificant sum was asked could not  be abandoned for reasons of economy. II such  reasons were to predominate, they would put an end  to most Unesco projects.
(149) The Brazilian delegate also thought that there  could be no duplication between Unesco's activities  ard those of WHO. WHO had not yet taken up the  problem of cancer, and it was to be feared that, if  the two orgamzations waited for each other, nothing  would be started.
(150) Unesco's field was basic research. However  small its resources might be, the Organization could  not refuse to take part in the campaign against a  disease which so ravaged the population, or to co-  ordinate the research undertaken on it.
(151) He recalled the speech by the Czechoslovak  delegate and was glad that the countries of Eastern  Europe were willing to pass on the results of their  research to other countries. He expected very  considerable results from the collaboration of  Eastern and Western scientists.
(152) He therefore warmly advocated that the project  proposed by the Secretariat be approved.
(153) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) wished to add a  biochemist's views to the discussion.
(154) Recalling the terms of the draft resclution  which appeared in the programme, he did not think  that anyone could say which piece of basic research  work would throw light on the cancer problem, or,  rather, he felt that every piece of research work  would help towards its solution. It was not certain  that cell growth explained cancer, and certain  biologists claimed that cancer cells in no way  - 377 -     BUDGET COMMISSION IV-16  differed from normal cells. The question was  therefore still at a preliminary stage, which neces-  sitated a great deal of caution in deciding what lines  research should follow.
(155) Mr. Florkin hoped that the field for the  suggested co-ordination would be clearly defined,  and that the International Union of Biological Sciences  and the International Union of Biochemistry would  be consulted.
(156) Mr. SPILHAUS (United States of America)  felt that those delegates who decided to support the  practical point of view were at a disadvantage In a  discussion which had been on a high emotional level.  He feared that Unesco's participation in the campaign  against cancer would raise false hopes.
(157) Unesco's budget would not permit of much  being done. Owing to the world-wide interest in  cancer research, he did not think that it would be  necessary for Unesco to act as a clearing house for  information. He was opposed to the project not  because he was opposed to cancer research, but  because he felt that Unesco should use its funds  where most good could be done. If the project were  to be adopted by the Commission, he proposed that  it should be relegated to Category 4 as being of  least promise as far as results were concerned. In  his opinion it would be better to spend the money on  basic research, as cancer was outside Unesco's  field of activities,
(158) The CHAIRMAN put paragraphs 101 and 102  to the vote. They were approved by 21 votes to 18,  with 7 abstentions.
(159) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) thought that draft  resolution 8C/DR/60, submitted by his delegation,  should be examined after resolution 2.22.
(160) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commis-  sion) said that there was also a draft resolution  submitted by the French delegation, dealing with  the proper use of natural resources. It should  be discussed at the same time as the Belgian dele-  gation's resolution.  {161) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of  Natural Sciences) pointed out that resolution 2. 22  ended with the project relating to the cancer  campaign and that the other draft resolutions,  including those relating to atomic energy, should be  examined separately.  The meeting rose at 7 p. m.