IV-30 PROGRAMME AND BUDGET COMMISSION  THIRTIETH MEETING
6 December 1951 at 10 a.m.  Chairman Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland)  ITEM 8.4.7.3 OF REVISL.D AGENDA : CONSIDERATION OF THE  REPORT OF THE WORWING PARTY ON DECENTRALIZATION  (document 8C/PRG/25 rev.) :
1. Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  presented the repor: of the Working Party on  Decentralization,
(2) The report fell into six sections, The first,  dealing with the genzral problems of decentralization,  laid down certain essential principles and explained  and justified the detailed recommendations that  followed.
(3) Sections II, III, IV and V dealt with particular  problems arising from various means of decentraliza-  tion, The Secretariat had already made precise  proposals in document 8C/5, for dealing with some  of those problems, concerning science co-operation  offices, the Regional Office at Havana and National  Commissions, With the Indian delegation's proposal,  dealt with in section V, the Working Party had  considered a new m2ans of achieving decentralization.
(4) That part of the report contained draft recom-  mendations, which were submitted to the Commission  for its approval,
(5) In section VI, the Working Party had considered  the problem of where the General Conference should  usually be held, try ng to determine whether the fact  of holding sessions away from headquarters might  help in decentralization.
(6) Mr. Maheu suggested that the Commission study  the various sections of the report separately.
(7) Section I did not entail adopting any specific text  and the Commission could simply take note of it.  I. General problems of decentralization
(8) The Commission unanimously noted and approved  section I of the report.  Il. Science Co-operation Offices
(9) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  reminded the Commission that the question of the  science co-operation offices had already been  considered in dealing with the programmes of the  Departments of Natural and Social Sciences.
(10) The Workirg Party recommended maintaining  the science co-operation offices ard asking the  Director-Gene rai tc make a careful study of their  development, Mr. Maheu said that no reflexion on  the Secretaria! had been intended; the Working  Party wished for such a study in order that the offices  might be more effective.
(11) Section II was unanimously approved.  - 476 -     III. Regional Office, Havana (resolution 7.31)
(12) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  pointed out that the Commission could not discuss  section III without at the same time taking a decision  on draft resolution 7.31 (document 8C/5, Chapter 7,  paragraph 23).
(13) The Working Party had recognized that the  circumstances which had ledtothe establishment of the  Havana Office were exceptional andthat decentralization  by that means was legitimate. But, as the circum-  stances were exceptional, it recommended that the  experiment should not be repeated elsewhere without  a thorough preliminary investigation.
(14) If section III were approved, paragraph (1i) of the  Working Party's recommendation under thai head  would become the second paragraph of resclution 7.31
(15) The CHAIRMAN thought it would be better 1f  that paragraph became a new resolution 7, 32.
(16) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) said  that the Working Party had intended the evaluation  mentioned in paragraph (ii) to be carried out by the  Director-General, who would not request extra  appropriations for that purpose. The Executive  Board would only have to examine the file the  Director-General had prepared; it would not have to  carry out an independent enquiry, which would entail  expenditure.
(17) Section III, resolution 7.31 and the new  resolution 7. 32 were unanimously approved.  IV. National Commissions
(18) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) said  that section IV covered draft resolutions 7.11 and
7.12 (document 8C/5, Chapter 7, paragraphs 4 and 5)  and the Working Party considered it to be the core of  its report.
(18) The Executive Board had devoted special  attention to the question of National Commissions,  and the Working Party, after studying document
8C/11, had taken over the Board's recommendations  in section IV. A,
(20) Section IV, A comprised recommendations  regarding the study of: (a) the structures and methods  of action of National Commissions; (b) the nature of  their relationsh.ps with Unesco and with their  governments; (c) obstacles encountered by Member  States in the establishment of efficient National  Commissions; (d) methods used by Member States to  associate interested groups in Unesco's work.
(21) Mr. Maheu said that the Work‘ng Party had   PROGRAMME AND  dwelt particularly on item (d). The National Commis-  sion should be the rallying point of a country's  energies, some of which were already concentrated  in the national branches of international non-  governmental organizations. If those energies could  be more closely linked with the National Commissions,  the Secretariat's work in the international sphere  would be much easier,
(22) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive  Board) said that the Board had emphasized the  importance attached to National Commissions, both  in its submission to the Conference of the proposed  Programme and Budget for 1955-56 (document
8C/5 Add. 1.) and in its report on the remodelling of  the future programme (document 8C/PRG/13). He  quoted from paragraph 18 of document 8C/5 Add. 1,  {page 3). National Commissions, however, could  only be set up by Member States, and Unesco's help  was therefore conditional on action by those countries  The problem of National Commissions was one of the  most important items before the current General  Conference,
(23) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) thought that section IV  of the report brought out one of the most striking  aspects of Unesco's activity. Unesco's lack of  success in some Member States was mainly due to  the situation of the National Commissions, and he  was glad to see that the Conference and the Executive  Board were at last giving that question special  attention,
(24) Mgr Maroun wondered whether it would not be  advisable to add, after paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and  (d), a paragraph (e), stating that the Exe.utive Board  and the Director-General should help the National  Commissions to set up machinery for collaboration,  so that they should have the necessary committee  structure, Some of the Commissions lacked efficient  subsidiary bodies and had not the necessary basis on  which to build them up. The Secretariat should give  special attention to their development.
(25) Mr. VERONESE (Italy) thought that tne Lebanese  delegate's proposal was covered by item (c) of  section IV,
(26) Mr. TREJOS-DITTEL (Costa Rica), on behalf  of his delegation, welcomed the document submitted  to the Commission, and the Report presented by the  Chairman of the Executive Board and the Assistant  Director-General. He was convinced that anything  done to assist the National Commissions would help  the Organization, but asked why, on the occasion of  the eighth session of the General Conference, no  meeting of representatives of the National  Commissions had been convened. The main defect  of those Commissions was that their efforts were  not co-ordinated, and it was the Secretariat's task  to remedy that defect.
(27) Mr. HACQUAERT (Belgium), referring to  Chapter 7, paragraph 9, of document 8C/5, said that  his delegation saw no point in a regional conference  of European National Commissions, since the  members of those Commissions had ample  opportunities of meeting.  BUDGET     COMMISSION IV-30
(28) He also mentioned that the Belgian Youth  Associations Committee had expressed a wish that  delegates of such associations be invited to attend  meetings of National Commissions,
(29) With regard to publication of documents in  languages other than the working languages of Unesco,  the Belgian delegate said that it would be advisable to  consult the National Commissions of all the countries  in which the language concerned was spoken. He  quoted the case of Dutch, which was the language of a  large part of Belgium as well as of the Netherlands,
(30) The CHAIRMAN put Section IV.À to the vote.
(31) Unanimously approved.
(32) The CHAIRMAN opened discussion on Section  IV. B.
(33) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) said  that the methods recommended by the Working Party  for implementing resolution 7.12 were designed to-
1. facilitate meetings between representatives of  National Commissions; 2. enable the Secretariat to  make the best use of the National Commissions in  carrying out the programme.
(34) Replying to the Costa Rican delegate's remarks,  Mr, Maheu explained that, at its previous session,  the General Conference had withdrawn appropriations  earlier made for meetings of the Secretaries of  National Commissions before the opening of a session
(35) He thought, however, that another method might  be considered for the future: Secretaries of National  Commissions taking part in the Conference as delegates  could be invited to meet unofficially. If the Costa  Rican delegate found that solution satisfactory, and if  the Commission approved of it, the Secretariat would  make the necessary arrangements.
(36) Mr, Maheu said that the Advisory Committee  recommended abandoning the projects for the appoint-  ment of national correspondents and the organization  of a regional conference of European National  Commissions, on the understanding that the funds  provided for those two projects would be distributed  among other projects under resolution 7.12. The  Working Party had endorsed those recommendations,  as well as the one giving first priority to resolution
(37) The work plan would therefore be as followed:
(1) visits by Secretaries of National Commissions to  the headquarters of the Organization or other National  Commissions; (2) missions by officials of the  Secretariat; (3) assistance to conferences of National  Commissions, on the understanding that the National  Commissions themselves would set those conferences  on foot; (4) publication of a Handbook of National  Commissions and a Guide for their use.
(38) The Working Party also recommended that the  appropriations for the projects covered by resolution
7.12 as a whole should be increased by $20, 000.
(39) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) moved the adoption  of the Advisory Committee's recommendation that the  projects concerning the appointment of national  correspondents and the organization of a  regional Conference of European National  Commissions should be dropped. He also moved  - 477 -   IV-30 PROGRAMNE AND  that the global budget of $63, 000 should be maintained  without the additional $20, 000 recommended in  paragraph B (4), (page 4).
(40) Mr. ABCEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) proposed the  adoption of the Working Party's recommendations as  a whole - including the additional $20,000. Sucha  decision would demonstrate belief in the importance  of National Commissions.
(41) Mr. KABIR (India) supported the Norwegian  delegate's proposal as far as national correspondents  were concerned; with regard to the conference of  European National Commissions, however, the  Working Party had considered that, while it was not  a high priority project, it should not be entirely  rejected. He shared that view.
(42) In conclusion, he was entirely in favour of the  additional $20, 000, Assistance to National Commis-  sions was one of the most important parts of Unesco's  programme and, if the policy of paying more attention  to activities in Member States under the remodelled  programme were to be pursued, more funds would  be needed for developing them.
(43) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL confirmed the  possibility of a meeting of European National Com-  missions. If, either individually or collectively, any  Member States expressed a desire to hold a meeting,  the Secretariat would be prepared to give assistance.
(44) Mr. SAWADA (Japan) supported the Egyptian  delegate's proposal, and stressed the valu» of  international conferences of National Cou... ions,  The recent conference in New Delhi, which he had  attended, had given great encouragement to the  Japanese National Commission.
(45) Mr. SHARIF (Pakistan) strongly supported the  proposal of the delegate of Egypt and quoted the  Working Party's recommendation in paragraph B (1)  (c) of document 8C/PRG/25 (rev.). In view of that  recommendatior. it was undesirable to delete the  European conference from the programme, and in  his opinion a certain freedom of action should be  given to the Director-General. He moved the  adoption of the recommendations of the Working Party.
(46) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  said that, in the course of seven General Conferences,  hundreds of resolurions had been adopted asking for  co-operation and action on the part of Member  States, but the present Conference represented the  first occasion on which measures were being taken  to enable Member States to play iheir full part in  executing Unesco's programme. In the opinion of  the United States delegation, the proposals of the  Working Party were designed to promote co-operation  between Member States and the Secretariat and to  increase world-wide action in the service of Unesco.  He therefore supported the proposal of the Egyptian  and Indian delegates that the Working Party's report  be adopted in full.
(47) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) said that the French  National Commission had the privilege of constant  co-operation with the Unesco Secretariat and had  BUDGET     CONMISSION  recognized the value of such contacts. His delegation  was ready to support any projects likely to foster  relations between the National Commissions and the  Secretariat.
(48) If Unesco could not count on the National Com-  missions it would be nothing but a bureaucracy. Mr.  Frangois said that hus delegation endorsed the  Working Party's proposal for an increase in the  appropriations for resolution 7.12.
(49) Mr. VERONESE (Italy) was satisfied with the  proposal for assistance to meetings of National  Cbmmissions and added that he had not abandoned  hope that such a meeting would be organized for  Europe.
(50) His delegation also supported the Working  Party's request for an increase in the appropriations,
(51) Mr. FORSYTH (New Zealand) joined in the  praise which had been expressed for the Working  Party's report. Inthe present instance, the New  Zealand delegation was reversing its customary  opposition to budgetary increases; first, because the  work was so important as to merit additional funds;  and, secondly, because the method of operating was  an example for future programme presentation, in  that the Conference was asked to approve general  principles and the Executive Board and the Secretariat  were allowed adequate freedom in putting those  principles into practice. Such a procedure would  reduce the need for the Commission to attend to  details, and give more authority and more liberty of  action to the Executive Board and the Secretariat,  which were in a better position to work out details.
(52) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that, before  completing the programme and budget, the Secretariat  had given serious consideration to the possibility of  increasing the budget for the activities under discus-  sion; it had finally been decided that any increase  above what had been recommended should be the  result of the initiative of delegates and a decision by  the Conference; it should not be proposed by the  Secretariat.
(53) The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the Working  Party's proposal for an increase of $20, 000 in the  appropriations for resolution 7.12,
(54) Approved without opposition, but with 2  abstentions.
(55) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) drew  the Commission's attention to paragraph 2 of Section  IV. B, which recommended that the assistance to  National Commissions described in paragraphs 19 and
20 of the chanter on Mass Communication be  transferred and added to the work plan for resolution
7.12, with the corresponding appropriations ($33,000  for the two years).
(56) He explained that it was an activity within the  competence of the Division for Relations with Member  States rather than that of the Department of Mass  Communication.
(57) In reply to the Belgian delegate's comment, Mr.  Maheu said that, when a work was translated into, or  adapted in a language spoken in several countries,  - 478 -   PROGRAMME AND  the translation or adaptation would be placed at the  disposal of all those countries.
(58) The CHAIRMAN asked for a vote on the transfer  proposed by the Working Party.
(59) Unanimously approved,  V. Proposal of India (documents 8C/DR/" and
(60) Mr, MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) said  that the Indian delegation's propcsal related to a new  means of decentralization,
(61) India proposed setting up machinery, at its own  expense, to facilitate co-operation betweer. the  National Commissions of South and South East Asia,  and offerzd the Director-General the use of that  macainery.
(62) Mr. Maheu explained that the proposal entailed  action by a Member State, not the establishment of a  regional organ of Unesco.
(63) The Working Party wished the Director-General  to be authorized to give advice and assistance to the  Office it was proposed to set up, and to submit a  report on the question at tne following session of the  General Conference. It would be for the Conference  to decide whether a similar scheme should be adopted  for use elsewherc at a later stage.
(64) If the draft resolution were approved by the  Comraission, it would be inserted in the programme  after resolution 7.12,
(65) Mr, MENDIS (Ceylon) strongly supported the  proposal, His country too had participated in the  New Delhi Conference, which had been the first  occasion on which National Commissions had worked  together. The results were to be seen in the group  proposals submitted to the present session of the  General Conference,
(66) Mr. KABIR (India) confirmed the remarks of  the delegates of Japan and Ceylon, The success of the  New Delhi Conference had suggested the desirability  of setting up some kind of permanent machinery for  consultation and collaboration between National  Commissions in the region. The proposal of his  delegation had been discussed by the Advisory  Committee and the consensus of opinicn had been  that an office of the kind indicated could act as a  clearing house and strengthen the activities of  National Commissions in the region, There was no  intention of setting up a regional office, and there  could be no objection to the establishment of a  permanent office of co-operation by a group of  countries working for Unesco. He commended the  idea to other regions.
(67) The CHAIRMAN put Section V, and particularly  the last paragraph, to the vote.
(68) Approved without opposition, but with 1  abstention,
(69) Resolutions 7.11, as amended, and 7.12 were  unanimously approved.  BUDGET     COMMISSION IV-30  VI, Place of the General Conference
(70) Mr, MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  explained that the Working Party's intention, in  Section VI, had been to suggest some general  principles concerning the location of future sessions  of the General Conference.
(71) Unanimously approved.
(72) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) said  that, when the Working Pa-ty had asked the Director-  General and the Executive Board to prepere four  detailed studies for the following session of the  Conference, it had not underestimated the magnitude  of the task, but had deemed it necessary.
(73) The next session of the General Conference would  mark the tenth anniversary of Unesco's establishment,  The Organization should then make a critical evalua-  tion of its working me .hods with regard to  decentralization, in order to determine its future  policy. That was the object of the four proposed  studies, which would constitute a coherent whole.
(74) The Working Party's report, as a whole, was  unanimously approved.  Draft resolution 8C/DR/ 15 concerning Clubs of  Friends of Unesco
8C/DR/15, said that the need for publicizing and  popularizing the aims of Unesco was already we'l  known, and his delegation considered that the  establishment of Friends of Unesco Clubs, altiiough  not the only method, was à very effective one. Many  such clubs eristed in Japan and were proving useful  instruments in promoting Unesco's aims amcng the  people, In his opinion they deserved every encourage-  ment, and he regretted that a resolution on “he subject  had been deleted from the Freliminary Draft  Programme and Budget for 1955-56. The Japanese  delegation had accordingly proposed the reinstatement  of the project, the Executive Board and the Advisory  Committee were in favour of the proposal and he  hoped that it would be unanimously adopted,
(76) The proposal was seconded by the dzlegate of  France.
(77) Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS (United Kingdom) was  in sympathy with the Japanese resolution, but pointed  out that many of the organizations caterung for young  people during and after the school period had aims  similar to those of the Friends of Unesco Clubs. He  accordingly proposed the insertion of the words  "where recessary" in the first line of the resolution.
(78) Mr. SAWADA (Japan) agreed to the proposed  amendment.
(78) Mr, MAHEU (Assistant Direc.orGeneral) said that  the sum of $500 mentionedinthe last paragraph of the  draft resolution for the publication of a Handbook of  Clubs of Friends of Unesco couldeasily be found inthe  budget. But he wondered whether i’ would not be prefer-  able to wait until 1857 before publishing the Handbook.  - 479 -   IV-30 Pho aR vv AND
(80) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) said there were many  Friends of Unesco Clubs in France, especially in  universi.y circles, and the National Commission was  anxious to put them into touch with similar clubs 1n  other countries. The Handbook would be extremely  useful for that purpose
(81) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) did  not press the point; 1f sufficient material could be  collected in 1956, the Secietariat would be glad to  publish the Handbook,  (C2) Draft resolution 8C/DR/15 was unanimously  approved,  Project 7.2 Study of international cultural relations,  (paragraphs 13-21 and document 8C/ PRG/ 11)
(83) Mr, MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  remarked that document 8C/PRG/11 was a report on  à very complex question and the Secretariat was  submitting it simply as a preface to a more detailed  study,
(84) The General Conference had decided, at its  third and fifth sessions, that a study of the bilateral  and multilateral agreements concluded by Member  States should ne undertaken fron: the legal standpoint.
(85) The study had very soon taken on a technical  and political character, for it had been found that tne  importance of the agreements under consideration  lay not so much in the texts as in the way they were  apphed.
(86) The *ssistant Director-General said that the  Secretariat wished to continue the study with the help  of experts who had practical experience of the  implementation of agreements,
(87) The Secretariat felt that the ~ctivities of  Member States within the International frariework of  Unesco system and their activities under tilateral  and multilateral agreements were neither contra-  dictory nor incompatible, They could 2nd shoutd be  co-ordinated to render them rive etfective in both  spher<s. But for that purrose Unesco needed to be  thoroughly acquainted with the structure and working  ot the bi'ateral and multi'ateral agreements, and, 1f  necessary, to take them into account when planning  and carrying out its own projects.
(88) Mr. Maheu ‘us convinced that, if Unesco, with  the help of the National Commissions, succeeded in  co-ordinating the two systems, its action would be  considerably more effective,
(89) Mr. RAADI (Iran) said that his delegation had  studied document 8C/PRG/11 with great interest and  hoped that the Secretariat would continue its  enqu:ries,
(90) In his opinion, the study would rendor great  service to Member Siates desirous of concluding  bilateral agreements, as it would enable them to  profit by what had al. eady been done in that field,
(91) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commission)  said the Advisory Committee recommended that  project 7.2 be adopted but that the appropriations  proposed for 1955 for payment of consultants be cut  by $2, 000,  BU     DGET COMMISS TON
(92) Mr. ESTELRICH (Spain) warmly congratulated  the Secretariat on its Report on Cultural Agieements,  He had, however, a few comments to make on  paragraph 19 of the General Resolutions chapter in  document 8C/5, and suggested that 1t be amended to  provide that the Committee would be composed of  experts representing the various existing systems of  cultural relations.
(93) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  agreed with the comments of the delegate of Spain,
(94) Mr. GOMEZ-HOYOS (Colombia), on behalf of  his delegation, supported the Spanish propo al,
(95) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) was not opposed  to international cultural conventions but disapproved  of any large-scale outlay by !'nesco on the publication  of texts at the present time. There were many other  activities deserving of higher priority and he was in  favour of postponing the project for at least two years,
(96) Mr. FREY (German Federal Republic) supported  the Spanish delegate's proposal.
(87) Mr. CARBONELL (Cuba) also supported the  proposal and asked for the dratt resolution to be put  to the vote
(98) Mr. HACQUAERT (Belgium) endorsed the United  Kingdom delegate's views.
(799) Mr. MIGONE (Italy) was in favour of the propusal  to convene a committee of experts, He hoped that  when the committee was set up 1t would include not  only representatives of countries with much experience  in the matter, but also less experienced coun* ies,  which would be able to tell the Committee of the  difficulties they had to face. He added that certain  international institutions that dealt with those prob-  lems, such as the Council of Europe, should also be  consulted.
(100) Mr. MONTAI.VO (Ecuador) supported the  Spanish delegate's proposal.
(101) The CHAIRMAN asked the Commission to take  a decision or. the Advisory Committee's proposal  rega. ding the cut of $2,000 to be made in the  appropriations for the payment of consultants,
(102) Unanimously approved.
(103) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) reminded the  Commission of his proposal, which had been duly  seconded, to postpone the project for two years
(104) he United Kingdom delegate's proposal,  seconded by the Belgian delegate, was rejected by
18 votes to 9, with 19 =L=tentions.  - 480 -   PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  ITEM 8.4.7.1 OF REVISED AGENDA REPORT BY THE  DIRECTOR-GENERAL ON THE DRAFT INTERNATIONAL  COVENANTS ON HUMAN RIGHTS AND ON MEASURES OF  IMPLEMENTATION OF EDUCATIONAL AND CUI TURAL  RIGHTS (d xx uments 8C/PRG/10 and 8C/DR/121)
(105) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) said that, since the
1ast sessicn of the General Conference, the United  Nations Commission on Human Rights had held its  mnth and teath sessions and drawn up draft Covenants  which had been submitted to the General Assembly  for examination,  {106) Unesco had been asked to comment on those  drafts. With regard to the definition of educational  and cultural rigats, the texts adopted had already  ween approved by the General Conference at its  previous sussion, Since then, the Executive Hoau d  had made certain comments on the implementation of  the draft Covenants,
(107) The Commission on Human Rights had also  considered how .ar judgment could be given un  complaints of violation of those rights, It had decided  that the Human Rights Committee should consider  cot iplaints concerning the violation of civil rights,  but that its competence should not extend to those  regarding economic, social or cultural rights. in  accordance with the instructions of the Executive  Board, which attached great importance to the  consideration of complaints, it had been suggested  that Unesco should be authorized to submit its  observations to the Human Rights Committee when-  ever that Committe had before it an allegation of  violation of the right to information.
(108) At its ninth session, the Commission on Human  Rights had studied new methods of implementing  human rights, Those methods had been very carefully  examined by the Secretariat, which, on instructions  from the Executive Board, had submitted certain  observations, The Board had taken the view that the  adoption of the Covenants was essential and considered  that the suggested methods of implementation should  not take the place of the Covenants but should supple-  ment them. It had also stated that Unesco was in a  position to co-operate fully and effectively in the  application of those methods.
(109) Mr. Saba concluded by saying that the General  Conference had to give its views on the observations  submitted, and to issue directives for the drawing up  of further observations, since the United Nations  General Assembly was to examine the draft Covenants  at its next session,
(110) Mr. JUVIGNY (France) thought that Unesco  should keep the United Nations informed of its point  of view, as in the past. He hoped that the observa-  tions submitted by the Orgamzation would be examined  as soon as possible by the Third Committee. If the  General Assembly did not complete its work within a  year, the texts might be amended and the Executive  Board might have to reconsider the question.
(111) The French delegate said that his delegation  wanted to make certain amendments to document
8C/DR/121: (1) In the third paragraph, the words  "approves the directives" should be altered to  "noting the directives"; (2) the last paragraph should  be replaced by the following text: "(3) to include in  his report, with the agreement of the Executive Board    COMMISSION 1V-30  any appropriate proposdls on the steps to be taken to  enable the Orgamzation to play a full part in the  implementation of educational and cultural rights",
(112) The French delegation's draft resolution was  seconded by the delegates of switzerland, Belgium,  Chile and Ecuador. It was put to the vote, and  unanimously approved.  FFM ES 7.4 OF REVISED AGENDA — OFFICIAL SH AL AND  FMBLEMOEH UNESCO (document 8C/PRG/9)
(113) Mr, DELAVENAY (Chief, Documents and  Publications Service) said that the proposal submitted  to the Commission for approval was bised on a  resolution adopted by the United Nations General  Assembly in 1946 with a view to protecting tue  colophon, symbol and emblem of the United Nations.
(114) The proposal provided for measures designed  to prevent the use, without authorization by the  Director-General, and in particular for commercial  nyrposes, of the emblem, official seal and name of  cv Organization, and of abbreviations of that name  through the use of its 1mtial letters.
(115) The Egyptian delegaticn had suggested amending  the text in order to make the prohibition valid for all  alphabets, Mr, Delavenay wondered whether that  amendment was necessary, fur it seenced to him that  the existing wording covered the Egyptian proposal.
(116) Mr, SABA (Legal Adviser) remarked that  Unesuu's seal and emblem bore Latin characters and  there might be some doubt about the scope of the  prohibition. In his opinion, 1t would be advisable to  amend the text by adding the words ‘in Latin or other  characters’ after "its imitial letters” in paragraph 2(1).
(117) That amendment was approved by the Egyptian  delegate.
(118) Mr. EL-ZAYAT (Egypt) proposed the following  amendment to the resolution on tne first page of  document 8C/PRG/9: in the first line of the first  paragraph under "1. Resolves", insert after the  word "above" the following phrase: "las well as other  designs depicting the Organization's imtials in other  alphabets".
(119) Mr. SANDOVAL VALLARTA (Mexico) asked  the Legal Adviser how he would meet the difficulty  that would arise if a commercial firm had already  for some time past been using the initials of Unesco.
(120) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) thought that the  laws cf the various Member States should see to it  that the prohibition was absolute.
(121) The CHAIRMAN asked whether a publication  bearing the Unesco emblem, but published in a  country where the emblem was not protected, could  be put on sale in a country where it was protected.
(122) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) said that everything  would depend cn the measures taken by the States  concerned. The draft resolution constituted a  recommendation which was not automatically enforceable.  - 481 -   v-3) PRO GRAMME AND  {123) Mr. CARBONELL (Cuba) asked that, as the  draft resolution under consideratior did not include  the design of the emblem, the words “reproduced  above" should be replaced by "Unesco".
(124) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) said that Unesco's  emblem was a distinctive sign and seal for which  only Latin characters should be used, He thought,  however, that a distinction should be made between  the scal and the use of Unesco's name in any  characters whatsoever,
(125) The draft resolution contained in document
8C/PRG/9 was put to the vote and unammously  approved.  ITEM 8.4.7.3 OF REVISED AGENDA — PUBLICATIONS IN  ARABIC (7C/6.722)
(126) Mr. DELAVENAY (Chief, Documents and  Publications Service) reminded the Commission that  the General Conference, at its seventh session, had  adopted resolution 6, 722, calling for a report to he  made to the Conference at its eignth session on  publications in Aiabic,
(127) That report was contained in documents 8C/3  and 8C/3 Add.  B     v  DGET COMMISSION
(128) Mr. Delavenay added that the Commission was  simply asked to taxe note of it,
(129) The Commission noted the report,  Draft resolution 8C/DR/12: Translation of Unesco  publications into German
(130) Mr. DELAVENAY (Chief, Documents and  Publications Service) saidthat the Advisory Committee  had recommended that draft resolution 8C/DR/12 be  studied with a view to inserting it in the future  programme, andthatat had also approved a resolution  concerning the translation of Unesco publications into  languages other than the official languages of the  Organization.
(131) It seemed therefore that it would be  possible, with the co-operation of the National  Commissions in the German-speaking countries, to  make a start on the implementation of the Austrian  delegation's proposal, ’
(132) The proposal was put to the vote and  unanimously approved,  The meeting rose at 12,55 p.m.  THIRTY-FIRST MEETING
6 Lecember 1951 at 3,30 p.m,  Chairman. Mr. MARTINEZ ESPINOSA (Ecuador)  CORRIGENDUM: SOCIAL SCIENCES PROGRAMME —  PROJECT 3.4 * SOCIAL SCIENCES AND PROBLEMS OF  INTERNATIONAL UNDERSTANDING AND TENSIONS (document
(1) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of  Social Sciences) recalled that, after the very
1mportant joint resolution on peaceful co-operation  had been adopted, Project 34 had been referred back  for revision by the Secretariat.
(2) In revising the project, her Department had  benefited from the resolutions passed, and the  suggestions made, in the Commission. It had taken  account of two resolutions (documents 8C/DR/21 and
8C/DR/95, not formally discussed) and had given  attention to the report by the Expert Committee on  Education for International Understanding and  Co-operation, It had also taken such expert advice  as was available in individual delegations.
(3) Some individual projects had teen dropped;  elsewhere the emphasis had been changed. Aid to  Member States (paragraphs (161)-(163}) remained as  in document 8C/5,
(4) There were now only two main projects  instead of three, namely A. Peaceful co-operaticn,  and B. International Understanding and  Misunderstanding.
(5) As regarded the former, an attempt had been  made to embody the substance of the Czechoslovak  draft resolution, and it was proposed that Unesco  should convene an inter-disciplinary meeting of  social scientists from regions with different cultural  outlooks.
(6) In paragraphs (152) and (153) an attempt was made  to emphasize the means laid down in the United Nations  Charter for the peaceful settlement of disputes, and  also to give satisfaction to those who had advocated  Gandhian doctrines.
(7) In paragraphs (158)-(160), it was proposed that  an attempt should be made to trace the sources of  international misunderstanding by means of research  into the media of mass communication.
(8) She had worked on the assumption that the  same budget limits should be respected. In fact,  it had been possible to make a small saving of  some $800.  - 482 -