30 November 1954 at 10 am.  Chairman: Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Australia)  PROPOSALS CONCERNING THE FUTURE PROGRAMME OF THE  ORGANIZATION (documents 8C/DIV/122, 8C/DIV/121,
8C/DIV/120, 8C/PRG/13)
(1) The CHAIRMAN recalled that wt the previous  meeting it had been decided to request the Rapporteur,  the Assistant Director-General and himself to  redraft paragraphs 3 and 4 of the United States  proposal concerning the future programme  (US Del, 8/PRG/46). The revised text of the two  paragraphs was now before the Committee in  document 8C/DIV/121,
(2) The Committee also had before it a proposal of  the delegate of France concerning the future pro-  gramme (document 8C/DIV/120). He proposed that  it take the revised text of paragraphs 3 and 4as a  basis for discussion and attempt to co-ordinate with  it the proposal of the French representative.
(3) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  thought that it should be possible to work out a joint  text, by taking document 8C/DIV/121 as a basis and  introducing cevr .n of the points in document
8C/DIV/120.
(4) Paragraph 3 (document 8C/DIV/121), for  instance, might be drafted as follows: "General  activities are those forming the basis of the pro-  gramme and corresponding to the continuing functions  of the Organization, which are generally of interest  to all Member States”,
(5) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) thought that general  activities should be defined in relation to Unesco's  two fundamental aims: (a) the co-operation of all  men of culture in the establishment of an international  community of minds; (b) mutual understanding  between the different nations and cultures as the  basis for a lasting peace.
(6) In order to define general activities more  clearly, and also to illustrate that definition, Mr.  MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) proposed that  the paragraph concerned be worded in the following  way: "Their purpose is, on the one hand ....... ,  and on the ..,. They include: (a) etc. ..'".  {7} Mr. SILLER (Mexico) considered that sub-  paragraph (6) of paragraph 3 in document 8C/DIV/121  was superfluous, as it simply expressed what was  already stated in the preceding sub-paragraphs.
(8) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  thought that the scope of sub-paragraph (6) might  be extended by saying, for instance: ''Any general  investigation likely to be useful for special activities".  - 840 -
(9) Mr, HACQUAERT (Belgium) pointed out that,  to introduce the idea of special activities, which  had not yet been defined, into the definition of  general activities, might easily confuse.
(10) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) drew attention to the  fact that education for international co-operation  and understanding, which was a slow process of  conversion to a certain attitude of mind, should be  included among the basic general activities, instead  of simply appearing under public information  (sub-paragraph (5)).
(11) Mr, MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  thought that the general idea was expressed in the  words ‘'promotion of human rights and a spirit of  international co-operation’ and that it would not be  advisable to refer there to a specific field of  Unesco's activities, such zs education,
(12) Thus, it would be better to replace the words  public information, which might lead to confusion,  by the words action on public opinien,
(13) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  then proposed the following text for sub-paragraph
(5): "action on public opinion for the promotion of  human rights and a spirit of international co-  operation"; further, he emphasized the importance  that should be attached to the different sub-para-  graphs of paragraph 3, which corresponded to  sections of the programme as a whole,
(14) The CHAIRMAN, supporting a suggestion by  the Egyptian representative, proposed that the  peints under paragraph 3 be provisionally accepted  and their final wording agreed at a later stage in  the light of future discussion. He invited the  Committee to consider paragraph 4 in its revised  text.
(15) Mr, SILLER (Mexico), referring to sub-  paragraph (3) of paragraph 4, asked why it was  necessary tc include budget and defined methods  among the characteristics of special activities.
(16) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  explained what the authors of the para-  graph had had in mind; they had wished  tc make it clear that the Organization,  in undertaking special activities, should  make full use of all the ideas, experience  and resources which the general activities,  on which they were based, had made it  possible to assemble,   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AKD BUDGET VI-32
(17) After criticism of certain points of detail,  mainly concerning the wording of the French text,  had been expressed by the CHAIRMAN, Mr.  PANNE TON (Canada) and Mr, MAHEU (Assistant  Director-General), the latter, replying to a remark  which had been made by the Mexican delepo*:  regarding the words'full use; pointed out that they  were the key to all the rest, and that, if they were  weskened, the whole structure of the text would be  in danger of crumbling.
(18) If the Committee wished to avoid the words  ‘full use’, it would at least have to say "requires the  use of part or all of the technical resources’, or  “requires the full utilization of the technical  resources”.
(19) The CHAIRMAN favoured a wording which  would in some way qualify the word'use; he  regretted that the formula full utilization did not  meet with the Committee's approval.
(20) Taking account of a remark made by Mr.  FRANCOIS (France), Mr. MAHEU (Assistant  Director-General) proposed that it be left to the  Secretariat to redraft the paragraph, incorporating  in it all or part of paragraph 20 of document
8C/PRG/13 and making it quite clear that special  activities and general activities were indissolubly  linked.
(21) Adopted.
(22) The CHAIRMAN recalled that the Committee  had already expressed itself on those lines and  suggested that a sentence reflecting that idea might  be added when the Committee returned to the point  later.
(23) With regard to the balance whi:h should be  maintained between general and special activities,  he vecalled that, when the question was referred to  the Cominittee by the Commission on Prograrnme  and Budget, the problem of balance was specifically  omitted from the terms of reference, and he did not  therefore think the Committee should give it detailed  consideration. He invited it to take up paragraphs
8 and 7 of the United States suggestions for a  directive on the future programme (document
8C/DIV/122) which were more or less closely  related, and then perhaps consider a general  statement on the question of balance.
(24) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) requested some  clarification of the difference between a major  project and a high priority area.
(25) He hoped that some information might also be  available as to the proportion of effort and money  which was at the present time being allucated to the  items under points 1 to 6 of the paragraph on high  priority areas,
(26) Mr. JUNANKAR (India), dealing with the para-  graph on high priority areas, suggested that the  words‘especially racial’be added to point (4), and  that point (6) be altered to read "utilization of  scientific knowledge, research and discoveries for  peaceful purposes and for the improvement of  living conditions",
(27) During previous discussions in the Committee  it had been agreed that efforts should be made to  request Member States to provide information  about what they wished the Organization to do.  The report of the Working Party on Decentralization  furthermore stressed the need for greater concen-  tration of effort, In that connexion he hoped that  the Director-General would consult Member States  or groups of Member States with a view to finding  out their needs and proposals for future activity  by the Organization,
(28) In answer to the question raised by the delegate  of Egypt, Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  stated that, as he did not recall the exact figures,  he was unable at the moment to say exactly how  much money it was proposed to allocate to each of  the six fields of activity, which had been chosen by  the United States delegation.
(29) Passing on to the question of the remodelling  of the programme, the Assistant Director-General  recalled the two basic aims underlying the proposals  that had been made: (1) to adapt the programme  to the needs of Member States within the framework  of international co-operation and understanding;
(2) to concentrate efforts and rescurces on certain  specific points where international action seemed  most urgent and necessary.
(30) When those two basic principles were com-  bined, a practical definition of concentration  emerged. That was to say, major projects.
(31) The Assistant Director-General then tried to  make the meaning of that expression clearer by  contrasting it with the more familiar concept of  high priority areas.
(32) A high priority area was a field of activity,  and not the activity itself, Fundar .al education,  for example, and the progressive .xtension of free  and compulsory education were limited fields - a  site as it were on which to undertake practical and  constructive projects, planned with great care and  worked out to the last detail.
(33) À considerable amount of thought had already  been given to the delimitation of those high priority  areas by Unesco and the Economic and Social  Council.
(34) The General Conference, during its Florence  session, had established a decalogue defining the  high priority areas. At its last session, the General  Conference had instructed a special working party  to single out, among the fields defined by the  Economic and Social Council and lying within  Unesco's competence, those which deserved  priority status.
(35) The working party's report had been forwarded  to Member States for comments and, when the  Executive Board had prepared document 8C/PRG/13,  it had had before it the list of priorities established  by the Economic and Social Council, those indicated  by the working party and approved by the General  Conference, and the comments received from  Member States.
(36) Unfortunately, the latter had not  answered exactly in the manner desired,  They had spoken of projects and not of  fields, so that any further consultation  would only delay the work,  - 841 -   vI-32 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET
(37) What was really urgent was that the Member  States represented at the present Conference should  indicate immediately to which of the main fields  already chosen (there were some twenty of them)  they wished priority to be given.
(38) That was an important decision which the  General Conference alone could take, and which  should be taken as soon as possible.
(39) At the present time, Unesco had a programme  of action which took the form of special activities  in each of the high priority areas, Owing to the  resulting dispersion of efforts and funds, such  activities ylelded only modest results, It was only  by reducing their number, and thus enabling  resources to be concentrated, that Unesco would be  able to carry out the selected projects on an adequate  scale.
(40) The Executive Board's idea was certainly to  maintain, for some time yet, the policy of having  many different projects; but although the transition  from dispersion to concentration was bound to be a  gradual one, the tendency towards concentration  should be introduced into the programme forthwith,
(41) Lastly, while a reduction in the number of  major projects was essential to the concentration  of efforts and resources, the very nature of those  projects would make it necessary to have recourse  to different methods and branches of knowledge at  one and the same time,
(42) The present programme contained special  projects requiring the assistance of certain discip-  lines. No doubt, those various activities required  to be co-ordinated; but the very idea of major  projects implied progress in such co-ordination.
(43) The present system of co-ordination through  co-operation would have to be replaced by co-  ordination through integration. A general plan  would have to be drawn up, enabling the problem to  be tackled simultaneously from all angles. Only  thus would Unesco be able to lay claim to practical  achievements on a large scale, instead of being able  to quote, as examples of constructive activities,  only (with a few fortunate exceptions) the recom-  mendations, advice or directives which it lavished  on its Member States.
(44) The CHAIRMAN thanked the Assistant  Director-General for his clear explanation and  proposed that the Committee first study high priority  areas and then major projects. A lirt of high  priority areas had been drawn up by the Economic  and Social Council; a second list had been drawn up  by the General Conference in Florence, a third,  though soinewhat less comprehensive, was contained  in the basic programme. The Committee might  consider those documents and, from the number of  high priority areas listed, choose those upon which  the efforts of the Organization might be concentrated.
(45) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) had noted with some  anxiety a remark by the Assistant Director-General  that it would be useless to consult Member States  again in order to ascertain which projects they  wished to see implemented. Although delegations  at the present session of the Conference were  authorized to decide which were the most important  high priority areas, they could not choose the major  - 842 -     projects without previously consulting their  respective governments and National Commissions,  which had certainly not yet had time to study the  Executive Board's report on the remodelling of the  future programme, it being dated 30 August.
(46) A time-limit of six months would enable  Member States to submit practical proposals, and  the projects mentioned most frequently would  automatically attract the Secretariat's attention.
(47) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) was still not  clear about the exact meaning of the term major  project. He wished to know if any of the Organi-  zation's present activities could be qualified as  such and asked if a major project was to be defined  by unity of content or approach. The Assistant  Director-General had mentioned the notion of  integration as a criterion. But such integration  would not prevent the various aspects of a single  project from being entrusted to a number of  different departments.
(48) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) said his point had  been a specific one. It would be very useful in  regard to the Organization's future programmes  to consult Member States on what they believed to  be the areas of highest priority and what projects  they wished to see undertaken there. Consultations  with Member States would prevent the latter from  flooding the Organization with a variety of projects  when it was too late to do anything about them.
(49) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  observed that the questions which he had just been  asked clearly showed that the debate needed  clarifying.
(50) Replying to the delegate of France, he pointed  out that, although he did not think it necessary for  Member States to be consulted on the choice of high  priority areas, he had never believed nor said that  major projects could be selected without prior  consultation with governments. It was indeed  inconceivable that the Executive Board or the  Secretariat should take such steps except in close  agreement with Member States.
(51) However, between the two steps of defining  priority areas and consulting Member States on  the choice of major projects, there was an indis-  pensable intermediary step, namely, the selection,  by the General Conference, of a limited number of  such areas in order to have a definite basis for  consultation with Member States.
(52) 1f the Secretariat was tn submit to the General  Conference, at its next session, projects likely to  meet with its approval, there was no time to be  lost, for the process - beginning with preliminary  exchanges of views and ending, after thorough  study and consultation with experts, with the  drawing up of the draft projects - would be a long  one.
(53) Replying to the next question: Which of the  existing projects corresponds most closely to the  new idea of major projects?, the Assistant  Director-General quoted the world network of  international fundamental education centres, as  originally conceived. There, the object had been  to solve, as quickly as possible, a practical problem,   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VI-32  namely, the lack of qualified staff to train fundamen-  tal education teachers, who, themselves, were too  few in number. The very nature of that education  made it necessary to try out various methods and  apply them to the different disciplines. Lastly,  there was direct co-operation with the Member  States on whose territory those centres were  established and who assisted in the scheme.
(54) According to the new policy the process would  be the following. The Director-General would ask  Member States to indicate their main and most  urgent problems in a high priority area, such as  fundamental education. For some, it would be the  training of staff; for others the production of reading  material, and for others the obtaining of audio-  visual aids. Certain countries would explain that  what interested them was how to build schools  cheaply; others would reply that their main  problem was the training of rural teachers. It would  then be possible to draw up a world chart of the  exact needs of Member States, and it would only be  after consultation with experts, both outside and  inside the Secretariat, on each of the problems  raised that the Director-General would be able to  submit constructive preliminary plans to those  States.
(55) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive  Board) wished to stress the importance of the time  factor. It was rare for Member States to answer  letters for at least six months following the General  Conference. Also the Executive Board would be  meeting in November 1955 to study the programme  for the year 1957-58. A further difficulty was that  there were not at present enough National Com-  missions to advise governments, The General  Conference therefore needed to urge Member States  to begin work as soon as possible and instruct the  Director-General to consult them on their needs.
(56) Mrs. HEFFELFINGER (United States of  America) thought that some members of the Com-  mittee were unduly concerned because they did not  realize the exact nature of major projects. More  patience was needed in developing them. Not enough  was known about Unesco activities because the  programme of the Organization was too diffuse.  However, in considering ideas and suggestions  from Member States, it would probably be seen  that many projects were already under way which  might develop into major projects.
(57) It was important to promote concentration of  effort, to strive for a greater impact upon public  opinion, to achieve closer consultation with  Member States and closer collaboration with other  international organizations on major projects, It  was therefore necessary to list a few objectives  and give the Secretariat enough time to develop  them.
(58) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) supported the  views of the representative of the United States of  America. He feared it would be difficult for one  Member State to produce a blueprint for a project  to be carried out in another Member State; it was  clear that such plans could only be drawn up by the  State in whose territory the project would be carried  - 843 -     out. An alternative might be for the Director-  General to make a number of proposals.
(58) A large number of requests for assistance  had been made under the Expanded Programme of  Technical Assistance, with which Unesco had been  associated for years, He wondered if those  requests from Member States did not constitute a  valuable source of information as to possible  projects. He algo wished to know if the Palestine  relief scheme for Arab refugees could be considered  characteristic of a major project.
(60) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) agreed that there was  no good reason for upsetting the Director -General's  time-table and, if the Member States did not reply,  the Secretariat would merely pursue its work in  accordance with the decisions of the General  Conference.
(61) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  repeated that Member States would be consulted  on the nature of the major projects which they  wished to carry out and that they would be given  sufficient time to send in answers, on which, as  they knew, the programme for 1957-58 would  largely depend.
(62) What the Director-General desired, however,  was that the General Conference should choose,  from among the ten or twenty high priority areas,  those in which a start should be made; otherwise,  the Secretariat itself would be obliged to make a  somewhat arbitrary choice from among countless  requests.
(63) In answer to the first question of the delegate  of the United Kingdom, Mr. Maheu said that,  although the Secretariat already possessed  information on the needs of Member States, such  information mainly concerned requests for  technical assistance for economic development,  and not requests relating to the social and cultural  fields.
(64) With regard to the second question of the  delegate of the United Kingdom - oncer ning aid for  Palestine refugees, the Assisf.uit Director-General  said that it might indeed have .>rmed a major  project to be conducted, for xample, over a  period of 10 years, had it been attacked in 1949 in  the spirit that animated the remodelled programme.
(65) He added, however, that that project was of  an urgent, but temporary and limited nature,  whereas the major projects that the Committee  was at present discussing should be long-term  projects, although calling for urgent action,
(66) Nevertheless, the major projects which the  General Conference authorized the Director-  General to undertake each year could include a  project which was merely urgent.
(67) The CHAIRMAN said that the matter of  consultations was dealt with to a certain extent  under paragraph 9 of 8C/DIV/122. At the present  stage it was necessary to agree on a definition of  priority areas, to select a certain number of them  and only then would he ask the Committee to  discuss major projects under paragraph 6.
(68) Mr, ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) agreed that the   VI-32 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  Palestine relief scheme could be considered a good  major project. He wondered, however, what  relationship there would be between such a major  project and areas of high priority which the Com-  mittee was considering. He believed that in  selecting high priority areas the Comunittee would  by implication be choosing the major projects to be  implemented there and vice versa. In his opinion  the two elements were very closely connected.
(69) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  agreed that it was difficult to choose a high priority  area without having one or more practical projects  in mind; but, if Member States were asked to supply  a list of projects before fields had been strictly  defined, the variety of projects proposed would be  so great that it would be practically impossible to  make a wise and effective choice.
(70) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) thought that the definition  of high priority areas in document 8C/DIV/122 made  them too transitory, as a two-year period only was  mentioned.
(71) Mr. LEE (United States of America) agreed  with the Mexican representative that most of the  projects would in fact require more than two years  to be completed. In that connexion he stressed the  need for a system of periodical re-appraisal of the  situation in the areas of activity concerned. The  General Conference, it had to be assumed, was a  responsible body which would not without warning  withdraw the priority it had granted a certain area  at its previous session.
(72) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) insisted that there should  be no allusion to a time-limit for the high pric ity  areas, which ought to be of a more lasting nature.
(73) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) said that agree-  ment on a small number of high priority areas and  the subsequent implementation in those areas of  major projects provided no guarantee of increased  effectiveness in the Organization's work.
(74) It was also possible that the concentration of  the programme and the reduction to a small number  of the high priority areas might estrange Member  States from the Organization, since it would in the  future be impossible to cater for the needs of as  many countries as in the past.
(75) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive  Board) was convinced that the Board, which would  henceforth represent 22 member governments,  would work in close co-operation with the Director-  General, and would be in a position to ensure the  required effectiveness in the Organization's work.
(76) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  observed that the Egyptian delegate's remarks  concerned the very concept of concentration; the  latter had been decided upon by the General Con-  ference itself and Member States did not seem to  have feared that it would lead to such a change in  their relations with one another or with Unesco.
(77) It was true that certain Member States would  benefit more directly than others from the programme  - 844 -     in its new form; hence the need for a proper  balance in the selection of projects; in attempting  to maintain that balance, the Director-General  would need the support of the Executive Board.
(78) Mr. Maheu added that, although only a few  Member States would derive immediate benefit  from the major projects, the latter would have  been chosen by the General Conference because  they were of universal importance and likely to  contribute to world peace,
(79) Because activities were localized, it did not  mean that the results obtained would not be of great  importance; the programme of assistance to  underdeveloped countries, for instance, had been  drawn up with a view to such results.
(80) Further, it might be thought that even States  which would not derive immediate benefit would  not only have the satisfaction of knowing that they  had done their duty but would also secure certain  advantages.
(81) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) appreciated the  safeguards referred to by the Chairman of the  Executive Board and the Assistant Director-General,  but thought the point raised by the Egyptian  representative an important one. The smaller the  number of major projects, the greater would be  the need for co-operation. In his opinion the  Organization needed to increase the number of  major projects to cover the various areas of the  world since its resources were drawn from all  Member States.
(82) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) said that a  number of countries, among them Norway, would  be interested only in the general activities of the  Organization. The major projects were designed  to a far greater degree for the so-called under-  developed countries. He favoured the introduction  of some principle of rotation which would make it  possible for certain countries or groups of  countries to obtain assistance at different periods.
(83) Mr. LEE (United States of America) did not  entirely agree with that view. He did not think  that major projects should be defined as applying  exclusively to underdeveloped areas. He could  well conceive of the United States of America  being interested in certain major projects,  touching upon cultural activities or international  understanding, being implemented in its own  territory.
(84) He believed that the Committee should stress  the overall objectives of Unesco and not merely the  immediate gains to any one party. The time had  come to abandon parochialism and to endeavour to  find a compromise between national or regional  aspirations on the one hand and the overall ideals  of the Organization on the other.
(85) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) said that the  proposal to introduce a principle of rotation did  little to allay his fears; furthermore he still  thought there was a danger that concentration of  effort on the basis of a small number of high  priority areas might threaten the relationship  between the Organization and the Member States.   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VI-33
(86) The CHAIRMAN replied that the Organi-  zation was in fact representative of the  Member States and was therefore unlikely  to take action that might estrange them.  The meeting rose at 12.30 p.m.  THIRTY-THIRD MEETING
30 November 1954 at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman : Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Australla)  PROPOSALS CONCERNING THE FUTURE PROGRAMME OF THE  ORGANIZATION (documents 8C/DIV/122 — formerly United States  deleg. 8C/PRG/48 — 8C/DIV/123, 8C/DIV/124 and 8C/DIV/125)
(1) The CHAIRMAN, opening the meeting, pointed  to a slight change to be introduced in the text of  document 8C/DIV/124. At the end of the third line  of paragraph 3, the words'they include"should be  replaced by they are aimed at! Similarly, after  sub-paragraph (b) in 3, the words and cover should  be replaced by these activities include’
(2) He then moved to the consideration of document
8C/D1V/123, which constituted a redrafting of the  first sentence in paragraph 7 of 8C/DIV/122,  based on the morning's discussions. He asked for  comments on it.
(3) No comments having been made, the document  was considered adopted and would be incorporated  in the final document.
(4) Going on to examination of the areas of high  priority enumerated in that paragraph 7, the  CHAIRMAN referred to the mention which had been  made at the morning meeting of the considerable  work already done in the determination of priority  areas both by the Economic and Social Council and  by the General Conference itself. The Committee  would have before it, in a few moments, a document  summarizing that work.
(5) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) proposed that,  in the meantime, the Committee move to the  examination of paragraphs 9 and 10 of document
8C/DIV/122, The two paragraphs were fairly non-  controversial, as they corresponded more or less  to the views expressed at the morning meeting.  {6) It was however agreed to adjourn for ten  minutes, to enable the Committee to be in possession  of the documents before proceeding with the  discussion.
(7) The meeting was resumed when document
8C/DIV/125, listing the Unesco and United Nations  documents on programme priorities, was distributed,  together with a copy of document 7C/Resolutions,  where the report of the working party of the seventh  - 845 -     session on the future programme and development  of Unesco was reproduced in extenso.
(8) The CHAIRMAN said that the Committee had  now before it a fairly wide list of areas to choose  from.
(9) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  thought that, in view of the great variety of proposals  contained in the documents which had been distri-  buted, the best practical basis for discussion would  be to take from the table of contents in document
8C/5 (proposed programme and budget) the items  relating to those of Unesco's activities whose  importance the General Conference had never  contested. In the chapter on education, for  instance, he mentioned items 1,21, 1.31, 1.32  and 1.33 in Section II. With regard to document
8C/DIV/125, he noted that, among the priority  programmes adopted by the United Nations, only  paragraphs E and F related to Unesco's work.
(10) The CHAIRMAN said that, starting with the  chapter on education, the Committee had a number  of items to consider in 8C/DIV/125, those being  items (a), (b), (c) and (d) under paragraph E, and  (a) under paragraph F. Referring to the Florence  Decalogue, there were th. ‘‘rst three tasks to be  considered. In document 8C/DIV/1ca, 1.0 **-et  two areas mentioned in paragraph 7 were involved.
(11) Before going into a detailed discussion of  those various recommendations, the Committee  should formulate an answer to two fundamental  questions: what was the extent of concentration  aimed at and how many projects would be specifically  mentioned ?
(12) Mr. FRANCOIS (France)was disturbed and  confused by the formidable number of documents  and proposals from which a few priority areas and  projects for recommendation to the General  Conference had to be extracted. In his opinion,  the document submitted by the United States  delegation had certainly been drawn up with due  regard to all the work already accomplished,  either by the United Nations or by the General  Conference itself. He therefore proposed that the  United States document be taken as the basis