tt CHAPTER IX  CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE  FIRST MEETING
12 November 1954 at 11.45 am.  Chairman: Mr. BERNAL JIMENEZ, (Colombia)  OPENING OF THE MEETING AND APPOINTMENT  OF THE CH AIKMAN
(1) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL. declared the meeting  open anc called on the Chairman of the Executive  Board to propose candidates for the post of  Chairman.
(2) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive  Board) proposed the appointment of the delegate of  Colombia.
(3) App:oved unanimously.  LA AMINATION OF CREDENTIALS
(4) Mr. SABA (i.egal Adviser), after reminding the  meeting of the procedure to be followed for  scr ittmzing delegations! credentials, said that the  secretariat had received a large number of  credentials wincn fulfilled the requirements laid  down in Rule 22 of the Rules of Procedure, and a  number cf other-credentials which, though they did  not strictly comply with the provisions of Rule 22,  could nevertheless be considered, under the  established procedure, as provisional credentials  enabiing their holders to be seated in a provisicnal  capacity subject to late: submission of final  credentials. Lastly, a few delegations had not yet  arrived and it was not sure that they would all aitend  the Conference session. He would make a proposal  on that point later on.
(5) Mr. TI USSIER (Secretary of the Committee) read  the list of countries which had sent credenuals in  due form to the Secretariat Australia, Austria,  Burma (Union of), Byelorussian SSR Cambodia,  Canada, Ceylon, China, Costa Rica, Cuba,  Czecheslovakia, Denmark, Dominican Republic,  Egypt, El Salvador, France, German Federal  Republic, Greece, Guatemala Haiti, Hungary, India,  Indonesia, Iran, Israel, Italy, Jaran, Jordan  (Hashemite Kingdom of), Laos, Libya, Monaco,  New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, Panamzs, Poland,    Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Ukrainian  SSR, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, Union of  South Africa, United Kingdom, United States of  America, Uruguay, Viet-Nam, Yugoslavia.
(6) Mr. SOI DATOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) wished to make a statement concerning  the representation of China. He noticed that the  Chinese delegation consisted of persons not appointed  by the Government of the People's Republic of China,  but by the Kuomimang Group. As he haa already  done in plenary session, he drew the Committee's  attention to the anomalous rituat'on with regard to  the representation of Cl.ina in Unesco. The  Government of the People's Republic, the only legal  government empowered to appoint representatives of  China, had not yet been represented in Unesco, where
1ts proper place had been taken by a representative  of the Kuomintang régime, which had been deposed  by the Chinese people and could not speak on its  behalf. Accordingly, the Soviet delegate submitted  to tha Committee a proposal, the adoption of which  would serve the interests, not only of the Chi ese  people, but of all countries concerned with the  development of cultural relations and their  contri bution towards better international under-  standing and the promotion of peace. The proposal  read  "The General Conference,  Considering the proposal by the delegation of the  Union of Soviei Socialist Republics concerning non-  recognition of the Kuomintang representatives of the  Chiang-Kai-Shek group at the eighth session of the  Unesco General Conference,  Decides to consider invalid the credentials of the  Kuomintang representatives of the Chiang-Kai-Shek  group at the eighth session of the General  Conference of Unesco".
(7) Mr. Soldatov explained that his motion had  been drawn up with a view to its final adoption  by the plenary Conference. However, he was  prepared to alter its wording 1f the Chairman  thought necessary by substituting the words  "Credentials Committee” for "General  Conference".   CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE
(8) In reply to Mr. ENVERGA (Philippines),  Mr, SABA (I egal Adviser) explained that the  mestion was not whether China was a member or  nf *he Organization - it "ad bean a member ever  sinc. Unesco was founded - but of the Soviet  delega*ion's objecting to the admission of the  repre. 1 tatives of China, The credentials submitted  by the latter were issued by the same authorities  who had 1ssued the credentials of Chinese delegations  to previous sessions of the General Conference.  Since 1950 objections had been raised against those  credentials. The General Conference had not  accepted those objections at previous sessions.  The Conference, on the advice of the Credentials  Commi:tee, would have to take a decision on the  objection just raised.
(8) Mr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America)  thought that the only point at 1ssue was consideration  of the credentials submitted by the only Chinese  delegation present at the Conference. He did not  consider the Soviet delegate's proposal acceptable  and, 1n order to avoid a lengthy discussion aimed at  excluding the representatives of the Government of  the Republic of China in favour of representatives of  the Central “eople's Government of the People's  Republic of China - a discussion which, incidentally,  should take place in plenary session - Mr. Kotschmg  submitted the following motion:  "The General Conference decides to adjourn any  consideration at the eighth session of any proposals  to exclude the representatives of the Government of  the Rep.iblic of China or to seat representatives of  the Central People's Government of the Pecple's  Republic of China".
(10) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) seconded the  proposal of the United States delegate. Tre question  should be adjourned.
(11) Mr. CARBAJAL VICTORICA (Uruguay) was also  against rejecting the credentials sut mitted by the  delegation of China. As the Legal Adviser had said,  it would be contravening the Conc .tution of Unesco.  The credentials had been 1ssuec by the same  authorities as for previous con‘erences; those  authorities, moreover, were recognized by the  United Nations, which had refused to admit the  Chinese People's Republic as long as that Govern-  ment's attitude towards Korea remained unchanged,  for it was a government which the United Nations  regarded as an aggressor. Owing to the close link  between the United Nations and Unesco - their  mutual relationship was defined in Article X of the  Constitution - Unesco could not admit to membership  a government not recognized by the United Nations.
(12) Mr. SOLDATOV (Umon of Soviet Socialist  Republics) noted that a procedural difficulty arose.  The United States delegate had proposed adjourning  consideration of the Soviet delegation's proposal but  he would remind the Committee that acceptance of  the United States proposal would mean postponing a  decision on the credentials submitted by any  delegation of China whatsoever. He personally was  in favour of taking a decision at the current session  and did not think that the United States delegate's
1X-1  proposal was a procedural motion, since it dealt with  a substantive question - adjournment of the question  of accepting the Chinese delegation's credentials 1n  general. In conclusion, he asked the Comm. ee to  vote on his proposal and, if it were defeated, to  vote then on the proposal of the United States  delegate. He believed lawyers would understand his  point of view, moreover, he was prepared to explain  it in detail. He felt he must reply to a point raised  by the delegate of Uruguay, namely, whether or not  it would be in keeping with Unesco's Constitution to  accept the Soviet Union's proposal. He personally  thought that, by accepting it, the Committee would  be acting consistently with the Constitution. The aim  of his proposal was to bring about broader  collaboration in the field of international understand-  ing and it did not in any way contravene the Consi1-  tution. The fact that the credentials of the Formosan  Government's representatives had been accepted in  the past meant nothing, mistakes might have been  made but there was no point in repeating them. The  delegate of Uruguay had raised another point: who  was the aggressor in Korea. The Soviet delegate  did not think that was a question which the Committee  or Unesco itself could decide. The Soviet Union took  the view, shared by other States, that the Central  Government of the People's Republic had not  intervened in Korea. It was only Chinese volunteers  who had take: .rt in the operations; they had had to  intervene to dafend their homeland when its frontiers  had been threatened. nis statement was justified by  the fact that it was not he himself who had raised the  point, but the delegate of Uruguay; he had therefore  been obliged to state the Soviet delegations point  of view.
(13) Mr. CARBAJAL VICTORICA (Uruguay)  explained that he had not said that it was Unesco's  duty to decide who had been the aggressor in Korea.  That question had been referred to and would have to  be decided by the United Nations.
(14) Mr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America)  regretted that political questions had been introduced  into the discussion. “lite Soviet delegate's proposal  had a political complexion and was out of place in  that Committee. Mr. Soldatov had said that lawyers  would understand his point of view - and he (the  speaker) did understand it - but that did not mean  that he agreed with the legal interpretation given.  The Soviet delegate had argued that Mr. Kotschnig's  proposal was not a procedural question. He read it  again and asked for the whole discussion to be  adjourned. In that connexion, he pointed out that,  under Rule 75 of the Rules of Procedure, any such  motion took precedence and that, apart from the  proposer, one representative could speak in favour  of, and one against the motion. In conclusion, he  asked for a vote to be taken on his proposal as it  was definitely a procedural motion.
(15) Before replying to the points raised by  Mr. Kotschmg, Mr. SOI DATOV (Union of  Soviet Socialist Republics) enquired in what  order the two proposals before the meeting,  Mr. Kotschmg's and his own, would be put  to the vote.  - 905 -   Ix-1
(16) The CHAIRMAN said he would put them to the  vote 1n the order in which they had been submitted.  That would mean taking Mr. Soldatov's proposal  first,
(17) Mr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America)  pointed out that, under Rule 77, his proposal should  have priority.
(18) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) thought it was an  awkward situation. The solution to be adopted  depended on the character and nature of the motions  submitted. But views differed on their definition.  Was the text before the Committee a draft amendment  to the report to be submitted by the Chairman, or  an independent motion, followed by a contrary motion?  If there was ans doubt, the Chairman could ask the  Committee in which order it wished to vote.
(19) Mr. SOLDATOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) pointed out that he had submitted an  amendment to the paragraph in the report mentioning  China: he had proposed that the credentials of the  delegation of China be considered invalid. In his  first statement, the United States delegate had asked  for that proposal to be adjourned. It was for the  Committee to decide whether or not it wished to  consider those credentials valid. If Mr. Kotschmg's  proposal were approved, the decision concerning the  credentials of one particular country, China, would  be left in suspense. He also pointed out that, when  he read his motion again, Mr. Kotschnig had further  specified that the Conference would reject any proposal  to secure the representation of the Chinese People's  Republic and had moved the adjournment of the  whole question.
(20) Mr. Soldatov pressed for a vote to be taken on  his proposal, which constituted a draft amendment  to the report. When that was done, other votes  could be taken on other proposals.
(21) The CHAIRMAN drew attention to Rule 77 (c),  under which motions to adjourn the devate on an  item under discussion had priority. He would take  a vote on the order of voting, Mr. KOTSCHNIG  (United States of America) felt sure his point oï view  would prevail and so raised no objection, although  he saw no need for such a procedure, since the  Rules of Procedure were clear. Mr. Soldatov's  proposal was one of substance (exclusion of a  delegation), whereas his own (adjournment of the  debate) was purely one of procedure.
(22) The proposa! to vote first on the proposal of the  Soviet Union was put to the vote and defeated by 5  votes to 1, with 1 abstention.
(23) Mr. Kotschnig's proposal was reread:  "The General Conference decides to adjourn any  consideration at the eighth session of any proposals  to exclude the representatives of the Government of  the Republic of China or to seat representatives of  the Central People's Government of the People's  Republic of China".
(24) The proposal was put to the vote and approved  vy 6 votes to 1, with 1 abstention.    CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE
(25) Mr. SOLDATOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) asked what procedure would be adop:ed  for submitting the report and voting on it.
(26) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) pointed out that the  report was not finished. The Committee still had to  consider the provisional credentials, the credentials  of observers from certain non-Me.uoer States and  from certain territories and international  organizations invited to the Conference.
(27) Mr. LUSSIER (Secretary of the Committee)  read the list of countries which had submitted  provisional credentials: Argentina, Belgium, Brazil,  Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Honduras, Iraq, Korea,  Lebanon, Liberia, Mexico, Netherlands, Pakistan,  Philippines and Turkey. Furthermore, credentials  for observers had been submitted by Bulgaria, the  Holy See, Portugal and Rumania, which were not  members of Unesco, as well as by the Saar and the  following territories: Gold Coast, Sierra Leone,  the British Caribbean group and the Malaya-British  Borneo group. Two international organizations - the  International Labour Organization and the World  Health Organization - had also accredited  representatives.
(28) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) further mentioned  certain countries which had not yet submitted  credentials and recalled the procedu. e adopted in
1952 and 1953, when the Chairman of the Committee  had been authorized to report direct to the  Conference on such cases.
(29) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) suggested that  that procedure be followed, and formally moved the  adoption of the report setting forth the information  submitted to the Committee by the Secretariat. It  would then still be possihle to reconvene the  Committee in case of need.
(30) Mr. SOLDATOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) pointed out that under Rule 85 parts of a  proposal should be voted on separately if a  representative asked for the proposal to be divided,  and he called for a separate vote on the part of the  report dealing with the credentials of the delegation  of China.
(31) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) then gave a general  outline of the draft report. It would begin with the  statement that the Committee had met, that it had  appointed its Chairman and considered the documents  issued by various States. It would then be indicated  that a proposal had been made by the delegate of the  Union of Soviet Socialist Republics concerning the  credentials submitted by the delegation of China and  followed by a counter-proposal by the delegate of the  United States of America, which had been adopted.  The list of States which had submitted credentials  would then follow, together with the Committee's  recommendation that those States be seated at the  Conference. In accordance with the request made  by the delegate ol the Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics, a separate vote should be iaken on the  mention of China in that list.
(32) The report would then give a list of the States  - 903 -   CREDENTIALS COMMITTE 1X-1  “hich had submitted provisional credentials,  followed by the recommendation that they be allowed  to take part provisionally in the work of the  Conference subject to later submission of credentials  in due form. Next would come the list of observers.  The report would then state that the Committee had  authorized its Chairman to report direct to the  Conference on any further credentials that might  reach him before the Committee's next meeting.
(33) Mr. SOLDATOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) agreed with the form of the report, as  described by Mr. Saba, but asked that mention be  made of the first vote taken by the Committee about  the order in which the vote on the two proposals was  to be taken.
(34) If the part dealing with acceptance of the  Chinese delegation's credentials were not omitted,  the Soviet delegate would have to vote against the  entire report and he asked for an explarztion of his  vote to be included.
(35) Mr. KOTSCHNIG (United States c’ America)  thought that, to avoid duplication, the statements of  Committee members defining their position should  be included in the minutes.
(36) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) said that a record  had been taken and would be issued.
(37) Mr. SOL DATOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) did not press for the inclusion of his  statements in the report, since a record of the  meeting would be prepared; he called for a vote  by roll-call.
(38) After a brief exchange of views, the Committee  decided to take a vote by roll-call first on the  retention of the word "China".  Voted for: Egypt, France, Philippines, United    Kingdom, United States of America, Uruguay.  Voted against: Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics.  Abstained: Indonesia.
(39) The result was 6 votes for, | against and one  abstention.
(40) The vote on the report as a whole was as  follows:  Voted for: Egypt, France, Indoncsia, Philippines,  United Kingdom, United States of America,  Uruguay.  Voted against: Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics,
(41) The result was 7 votes for, and 1 against.
(42) Mr. SOLDATOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) said that he had been obliged to vote  against the report as a whole solely because of the  rejection of his proposal to consider the credentials  of the Chinese delegation invalid since its members  came from a group disowned by the Chinese people  and could not represent China in Unesco. He asked  for that statement to be included in the minutes.
(43) Mr. HUZAYIN (Egypt) pointed out that the fact  of his delegation's having voted for the report as a  whole did not imply that it recognized the governments  of certain States which had submitted credentials  deemed to be valid.
(44) The CHAIRMAN thanked members of the  Committee for their readiness to carry out a  difficult task.
(45) Mr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America),  on behalf of the Committee, thanked the Chairman  for his masterly conduct of the Committee's  proceedings.  The meeting rose at 2.30 p.m.  - 807 -