ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  Preparatory Documents
(112) The estimates were approved by 11 votes to
1, with 1 abstention,  Publications
(113) The estimates were approved by 10 votes to
2, with 1 abstention.
(114) Finally, the Committee agreed, by 11 votes  to 1, with 1 abstention, to recommend the adoption  of Russian as a working language of the General  Conference, having due regard to the budget  estimates contained in document 8C/DIV/78, to-  gether with the additional estimates for organizing  the next session of the Conference in New Delhi.
(115) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) proposed that  for the time being the Committee should not re-  commend the use of Russian for the Executive  Board,
(116) The proposal was seconded by the delegate  of France and adopted by 10 votes to 1 with 2  abstentions,
(117) The CHAIRMAN asked whether the preceding  vote implied that the Committee should proceed no  further.    Vvi-26
(118) Mr, ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) suggested that  one reason for the vote was that the Soviet Union  was not at present represented on the Executive  Board,
(118) Mr, MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  pointed out that present decisions regarding  Russian were being taken on the basis of the  existing situation and of information <o far  available and that, if new facts should be brought  to their notice, delegates would naturally be free  to take those facts into account,
(120) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) pointed out that the  Committee should not exclude the possibility that  in future Unesco might publish some periodicals  in Russian, for one of the services which Unesco  should render to a country which had joined it  was to issue some publications in the language  of that country.
(121) The CHAIRMAN said that the appropriate  place for the Soviet delegation to raise the question  of publications and periodicals would be in the  Programme and Budget Commission,  The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m.  TWENTY - SIXTH MEETING
17 November 1954 at 4 p.m.  Chairman : Mr, SOMMERFELT (Norway)  DEAFT REPORT OF THE ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PRO-  GRAMME AND BUDGET (PART I)  REMODELLING OF THE FUTURE PROGRAMME OF UNESCO  (continued)
(1) Mr, CABOUAT (Rapporteur) read out para-  graphs 6, 7 and 9 of Part II of the draft report of  the Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget,  dealing with the remodelling of the future pru-  gramme of Unesco, as amended by the Drafting  Committee,
(2) Paragraphs 6, 7 and 9 were adopted without  discussion,
(3) The Rapporteur added that paragraph 12 in  the draft report would be followed immediately  by paragraph 15, and that the transferred para-  graphs 13 and 14 would be replaced by the text  of the motion submitted on 15 November by the  delegate of the United States of America, omitting    - 811 -  the first sentence of that motion, which was already  included in the draft report (cf, document 8C/BUD/  SR. 23).
(4) The proposed drafting was adopted without  discussion.
(5) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) thought the word "precise"  in the last sentence of paragraph 10 laid too heavy  a burden on the General Conference and proposed,  in the interests of greater flexibility, that it be  deleted,
(6) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) pointed to an  anomaly in the words: "For several years" at the  beginning of the paragraph and the words: "It is  now b*Loming necessary...” in the last sentence  of the paragraph,
(7) Mr. LEE (United States of America) proposed,  in order to meet those objections, that the beginning  of the last sentence of the paragraph be altered to   VI-26  read: "It is necessary that the Director-General  receive instructions which will enable him..."
(8) Mr. SLDES (France), also referring to para-  graph 10, did not think the Director-General could  be given "precise instructions’ for the concentra-  tion of Unesco's activities in drawing up the
1957-58 programme, He asked what precise  instructions the Committee or the General Con-  ference could give without first knowing what  proposals the Director-General intended to put  forward for the 1957-58 programme, The French  delegate would rather go back to the original  wording of paragraph 10.
(9) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom), while fully  appreciating the point of view of the French dele-  gate, thought it was difficult to give more than  a very general recommendation in the Advisory  Committee's report. He would oppose the  retention of the original text on account of the  drafting anomalies it contained and proposed that  the paragraph be adopted as amended by the  delegate of the United States of America.  {10) It was so agreed,
(11) Turning to paragraph 11 of the draft report,  Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) thought it should  contain a reference to the principle of concentra-  tion of activities and proposed that the first two  sentences of the paragraph should be altered to  read as follows:  "The Conference should in particular, decide  whether, as has been proposed by the Executive  Board, the future programme should be concen-  trated by giving priority to a small number of  major activities carried out for the purpose of  contributing towards a practical solution of specific  problems. Such activities will doubtless require  funds considerably greater than those normally  at the Organization's disposal’,
(12) Paragraph 11 as amended was adopted,
(13) Part II of the Draft Report of the Advisory  Committee on Programme and Budget as a whole  was adopted.  DR/62: Study preliminary to the establishment of  a training centre for international civil servants
(14) Called upon by the CHAIRMAN, Mr. MAHEU  (Assistant Director-General) thought that the draft  resolution submitted by the Iranian delegation  showed a just appreciation of the importance of  training international civil servants, He inter-  preted it as a request to the Director-General to  undertake a preliminary study of the possibility  of setting up a training centre for such officials,  with the object of submitting proposals to the  General Conference at its ninth session,
(15) He would rather that the term "report" were  not used; so that the Director-General might  be at liberty not to prepare a formal report if he  considered that the question was not yet ripe.
(16) Mr. PANNETON (Canada) asked whether the    - 812 -  ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  draft resolution was not affected by Rule 78(2) of  the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference:  "Proposals containing new programme resolutions  or amendments to the draft programme involving  new activities or increasing substantially the budget  estimates shall reach the Director-General in  writing at least ten days before the opening of the  session”,
(17) The Canadian delegate wondered whether the  draft resolution did not involve a new activity which,  even though it had no budgetary implications, should  be closely examined before any decision was taken,
(18) Mr, MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  explained that the General Committee had taken the  view that the draft resolution could be examuned  under the terms of Rule 78 (3) of the Rules of  Procedure, In his opinion, the proposal did not,  properly speaking, involve a new activity and had  no appreciable budgetary implications.
(19) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) believed that  centres already existed where such training was  provided, and wondered if the studies proposed by  the delegation of Iran were justified.
(20) Mr, LEE (United States of America) thought  that the Director-General did not require any  special authority to investigate the matter, but  that the Advisory Committee would need to have  more information about the project before it could  authorize him to do more than investigate it. He  proposed that the question be referred to the  Secretariat, which would decide on the desirability  of inzorporating it in the programme of activities  for 1957.
(21) Mr. SEDES (France) seconded the proposal of  the delegate of the United States of America, He  thought it behoved the Committee to recognize the  importance of training international civil servants,  but that did not necessarily entail a formal resolu-  tion; a general instruction to the Secretariat would  be enough.
(22) Mr. SOEBROTO (Indonesia) said the question  raised by the delegation of Iran was of considerable  importance to many countries and he would support  the proposal contained in the draft resolution.
(23) Mr. PANNETON (Canada) was anxious to see  the ten-day rule applied so that delegations had an  opportunity of studying the draft resolutions sub-  mitted to the General Conference, He also wondered  whether there was in fact a link between the draft  resolution proposed by Iran and an activity already  mentioned in the draft programme,
(24) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) thought the  points of view of the Indonesian and United States  delegations were not incompatible and both might  be satisfied if the matter were referred to the  Secretariat for submission of a proposal at the  next session of the General Conference.
(25) It was so agreed.   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  DR/63: Unesco publication on Mickiewicz
(26) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  pointed out that the draft resolution had budgetary  implications, and accordingly came under the ten-  day rule, Nevertheless, the General Committee  had thought fit to make an exception and had  accordingly requested the Committee to consider it.
(27) Mr, KIRPAL (Deputy Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) said that the cost of the project  would amount to $6, 400 for 1955. That sum would  cover the publication of 10 contributions by  interested persons in book form (250 pp., 2,000  copies) on the lines of those already published by  Unesco in homage to Goethe and Balzac.
(28) Mr. LEE (United States of America) re-  quested that the draft resolution be considered out  of order as it had not been submitted in accordance  with the Rules of Procedure,
(29) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) said that,  since the works of the great Polish poet were still  insufficiently known outside Poland, it would be  more valuable to secure interest in their trans-  lation under the auspices of Unesco, rather than  issue a separate publication to commemorate his  death. If the latter course were followed, many  more countries might be induced to submit  similar requests for publications,
(30) Mr. SEDES (France) asked whether the works  of the Polish poet did not include passages parti-  cularly in keeping with the work and aims of  Unesco, Such excerpts should be chosen for publi-  cation in preference to others, moe general in  character, He further suggested that, instead of  embarking on a special publication, Unesco might  publish some of Mickiewicz! work in the Courier  so as to bring it to the notice of the regular readers  of that paper. In his opinion, $6,400 should  not be spent on a project which was not directly  connected with Unesco's prograiame activities  until all other possibilities had be. n exhausted, or  at least explored.
(31) Mr. KIRPAL (Deputy Director, Department  of Cultural Activities) feared that the adoption of  the United Kingdom proposal might jeopardize the  Organization's present translation programme,  where emphasis was laid primarily on the trans-  lation of the literature of Asian countries,
(32) Mr. LEE (United States of America) proposed  that no action be recommended on the draft reso-  lution under consideration, just as it had been  agreed to recommend no action on the draft reso-  lution of the Italian delegation requesting Unesco  to convene a conference to study the work and  influence of the architect Palladio (document
(33) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) suggested  that an adequate tribute might be paid to Poland  without undue additional expense if a feature were  devoted to the poet Mickiewicz in the Unesco    - 813 -  VI-26  Courier or in any other of the Organization's  current publications.
(34) Mr, SEDES (France) put forward, as a formal  proposal, his previous suggestion that a number of  poems by Adam Mickiewicz, preceded by a biography  of the poet, be published in the Unesco Courier.
(35) The French delegation's proposal was put to  the vote, and adopted by 6 votes, with 1 abstention,  DR/64: The social sciences and problems of  social development
(36) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  submitted the proposal by virtue of another exception  allowed by the General Committee, The French  proposal entailed expenditure to the extent of  $4,000 in 1955; on the other hand it fitted logically  into the Unesco programme, without either neces-  sitating any fundamental change, or constituting a  "new activity".
(37) With the tacit approval of the Chairman, the  Assistant Director-General asked the French  delegation whether it wished to maintain its draft  resolution, since it would not be impossible to  combine it with the draft resolution of the Uruguayan  delegation on "Teaching about human rights"  (document 8C/DR/55), which seemed to stem from  the same considerations, and which the Committee  had recommended to the General Conference; it  had also recommended approval of a contract with  the International Political Science Association.
(38) Mr, SEDES (France), feeling that there had  been repeated evidence of the failure of democratic  political development to keep pace with economic  and social development in the world, wished to  maintain his proposal, and hoped that it would be  adopted by the Committee, He did not know how  the Uruguayan proposal would fare.
(39) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) was in favour of re-  questing the International Political Science Asso-  ciat‘on to discuss the matter at its Congress in  Stockholm in 1955, or, if that did not prove  possible, later - in 1957.
(40) Mr. PANNETON (Canada) stated that he had  two reasons for invoking Rule (8 (2) of the Rules  of Procedure, In the lirst place, the French  draft resolution did, in his opinion, involve a "new  activity". Secondly, in his view, it should be re-  garded as "increasing substantially the budget  estimates, The Canadian delegate considered  that any expenditure of over one \housand dollars  entailed by a project should be regarded as a  substantial increase,
(41) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of  Social Sciences) pointed out that it was not merely  a question of adding an item to the agenda of IPSA.  A round-table conference could be organized, but  a certain amount of expenditure, entailing a sub-  vention from Unesco, would be inevitable.
(42) The CHAIRMAN, supported by the representative   v1-26 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PHOGRAMNE AND BUDGET  of the United Kingdom, proposed that the Committee  adopt the suggestion of the representative of Israel  that IPSA should be requested to study the matter in
(43) The proposal was put to tne vote and adopted  by 7 votes to 1, with 2 abstentions,  EXPANDED PROGRAMME OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE  (docament 8C/5, Annex VIII)
(44) Mr. ADISESHIAH (Director, Department of  Technical Assistance) outlined the salient points  of the Expanded Programme of Technical Assist-  ance and said that the Advisory Committee had to  assist the General Conference to review technical  assistance activities over the past two years as  well as the technical aspects of the programmes,
(45) For the programme of 1955 the Director-  General had submitted to the Technical Assistance  Board allocations of 2.7 and 3, 2 million dollars  for the first and second categories respectively,  Those minimum and maximum figures included a  sum of 390, 000 dollars to cover Headquarters  costs, It was interesting to note that in the new  programme two-thirds of the budgetary allocations  were intended for education, while only one-third  was earmarked for scientific development; that  proportion reflected the flow and the nature of the  requests for assistance which had been received,  On the whole the new programme showed a strong  element of continuity, since 72 per cent of the  activities it embodied were already under way and  had been for some time, while only 28 per cent  were entirely new. That was due to the fact that  the limited financial resources of the Organization  had made it necessary to give priority to long-  term, continuing projects and also to the fact that  the very nature of work in science and education  required patience and continuity of effort. In the  course of 1955 completely new ground would be  broken in Nicaragua, Chile and Paraguay. On the  whole, technical assistance would continue to  operate in the same major fields as before:  primary and secondary education, for which the  largest funds had been allocated; fundamental  education, which had dropped to second place;  technical education, which retained the same  degree of priority as before, and special docu-  mentation. In all those aspects the Expanded  Technical Assistance Programme was closely  related to the regular programme. Moreover, all  departments of the Organization played an important  part in the development cf the technical assistance  projects, and close collaboration had been ensured  between Unesco and the other Specialized Agencies.  Important work was being done on a regional basis,  particularly in Latin America, where three  educational and training centres had been opened,  and it was expected that 28 more projects would  be completed before the end of the year.
(46) The technical assistance given by Unesco  was of three types: e«perts, scholarships and  equipment, and tae reed for one or the  other varied consid:rably according to  countries.  - 814 -
(47) With regard to Headquarters staff, allocations  for 1955 totalled 390, 000 dollars, The strictest  economy had been advocated in that sphere by the  Economic and Social Council, and the Director-  General, who had been compelled to reduce Head-  quarters staff in 1954 by 20 per cent compared with
1953, had serious doubts about his teing able to  carry on technical assistance work in those condi-  tions, He hoped that the Advisory Committee would  give that problem its most careful consideration.
(48) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) said that the  United Kingdom was most satisfied with the inform-  ation contained in the report, He thought, however  that the latter was perhaps not in all cases  sufficiently critical of shortcomings, There was  also insufficient information about the work of  teams engaged in the evaluation of projects. His  delegation was satisfied with the draft resolutions  contained on pages 5 and 6 of the report (8C/5,  Annex VIII), subject to deletion in the preamble  of part D of the word "reduced", which added little  to the meaning and could be misunderstood.
(49 Mr, ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) thought that there  was still room for closer collaboration between the  Technical Assistance Department and the other  departments of Unesco. Methods of evaluating  projects needed to be improved, as they could lead  to greater efficiency and more economy. Consult-  ations with the interested parties should precede  any attempt to modify the methods of allocating  technical assistance to various countries and,  finally, more information should be made available  about the experts employed on technical assistance  projects, their nationality and the type of work they  did.
(50) Mr. PANNETON (Canada) paid tribute to the  way in which Mr, Adiseshiah had presented the  report, and in which the United Kingdom and  Egyptian delegates had comraented on it. He  thought that in no other field was the Unesco budget  better allocated.
(51) He recalled, however, that the Technical  Assistance Board had asked organizations to reduce  their expenditure; the equipment made available  for technical assistance projects was used only for  demonstration purposes, but he had read that, in  one case, the cost of equipment amounted to 40%  and 1n another to 57% of the total cost of the  projects,
(52) While he was satisfied with the expenditure as  a whole, and would not ask for details, the  Canadian delegate found that fact surprising, and  wondered whether it would not be possible to  economize to some extent, and to use the sums  thus made available for objects more in keeping  with the Constitution and the spirit of Unesco,
(53) Mr, SEDES (France) joined in congratulating  Unesco's Technical Assistance Department, and  was glad to note that the technical assistance pro-  gramme had been expanded, He stressed the  degree of co-operation established between the  various Specialized Agencies, and added a  number of general remarks,   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME ANL BUDGET VI-26
(54) i. Witn regard to the experts whom govern-  ments and National Commissions were entitled to  appoint, he thought that Unesco should give those  authorities earlier information about proposed  missions and their destination. Such missions  were generally composed of teachers and research  workers, who could not always get away easily,
(55) if. There should be continuity in the efforts  of Unesco and the other Specialized Agencies in  such matters as fundamental education, So far as  fundamental education was concerned, the experi-  mental period was over, and the time had come  to launch, not experiments, but genuine campaigns  for its promotion, Continuity of effort was essential  to success,
(56) iii. Thirdly, in order to establish continuity  at least in certain fields of technical assistance, a  period of assessment was necessary, It was clear  that such assessment could not be made without  due consideration and that often it took a very long  time. Evaluation of results was, however,  essential for the success of technical assistance,  and, in particular, for fundamental education,
(57) Mr. Sedes said he would be happy to support  the proposal of the United Kingdom delegate, if  the latter would agree not to delete the word  "reduced" in the preamble to draft resolution 8, 52  (Resolutions, part D). As the funds available for  technical assiste ice were "reduced", Unesco was  seeking means of replacing them by asking for  help from Member States and for voluntary contri-  butions, It would be very harsh to say to Meraber    States: "Unesco helps those who help themselves",  as if the Organization were applying the hard rule of  "God helps those who help themselves". To delete  "reduced" was to do violence to the sense of the  passage,
(58) Mr. COWELI, (United Kingdom) proposed that  the following paragraph be inserted in the report:  "The Advisory Committee on Programme and  Budget, having considered Annex VIII of the  proposed programme and budget and having taken  into account the oral commentary and explanations  provided on behall’ of the Director-General,  commends the document to the General Conference  as a useful and lucid summary of Unesco's  technical assistance activities, whcse main trends  appear to the Committee to be satisfactory,  The Committee approves the draft resolutions  contained in the report and recommends their  adoption by the General Conference with the slight  reservation that the word ‘reduced’ be replaced  by 'limited’ in the preamble fo draft resolution 8, 52",
(59) No objectiors having been raised, the proposal  of the delegate of the United Kingdom was  adopted,  The meeting rose at 7, 30 p. m,  - 815 -