12 November 1954 at 4 p.m.  President Dr. Sarvepalli RADHAKRISHNAN (India)  later: Mr. ZAVALA MUNIZ (Uruguay)  CONTENTS  Report of the Credentials Committee to the Conference . . . 41  Adoption of the revised agenda . . . 024004000000 0 0 44  Establishment of the Nominations Committee . . . . . . 44  Report of the Nominations Committee and election of the  President and ten Vice-Presidents of the General Con-  ference ... +... ts 040 0 + 0 04 0000 0 os 0 8 a a oa 45  REPORT OF THE CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE TO THE  CONFERENCE
(1) Tre PRESIDENT: 1 will ask the Chairman of the  Credentials Committee to address the meeting.
(2) Mr. BERNAL JIMENEZ (Colombia) (Chairman  of the Credentials Committee) (Translation from the  Spanish): Mr. President, Mr, Director-General,  ladies and gentlemen, the Credentials Committee,  appointed by the General Conference of the United  Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organ-  ization, at its eighth ordinary session, met today, its  members being the representatives of Colombia,  Egypt, France, Indonesia, the Philippines, the United  Kingdom, the United States of America, the USSR  and Uruguay. The Committee elected the Head of  the delegation of Colombia as its Chairman. The  Committee then examined the credentials submitted  through the Director-General of the Organization by  the States mentioned later.
(3) The delegate of the USSR raised objections to the  credentials presented by the delegation of China, and  submitted the following resolution:  Draft resolution by the USSR concerning non-  recognition of the credentials of the Kuomintang  representatives of the Chiang Kai-shek group at the  eighth session of the Unesco General Conference:  "The General Conference,  In view of the proposal by the delegation of  the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics concerning  non-recognition of the c.edentials of the Kuomin-  tang representatives of the Chiang Kai-shek group  at the eighth session of the Unesco General Con-  ference,  Decides to consider invalid the credentials of the  Kuomintang representatives of the Chiang Kai-shek  group, at the eighth session of the General Confer-  ence of Unesco, "
(4) The representative of the United States of Ame-  rica tabled the following motion on this question:  - 41 -     "That the General Conference decides to adjourn  any consideration at its eighth session of any pro-  posal to exclude the representatives of the Govern-  ment of the Republic of China or to seat represent-  atives of the Central People's Government of the  People's Republic of China."
(5) After a discussion in which the delegates of Indo-  nesia, the Uaited Kingdom, Uruguay, the USSR and  the United States of America took part, the Committee  decided to put to the vote the question of which of the  two proposals should be voted on first. The Com-  mittee decided by 5 votes to one, with two absten-  tions, to vote first on the proposal of the delegation  of the United States of America. The proposal in  question was adopted by six votes to one, with one  abstention,
(6) The Committee decided that the delegates of the  States listed hereunder were duly accredited in con-  formity with Rule 22 of the Rules of Procedure of the  General Conference by instruments issued either by  the Head of the State or by the Minister of Foreign  Affairs or by another Minister authorized by the  Minister of Foreign Affairs to issue credentials:  Australia, Austria, Burma (Union of), Byelorussian  Soviet Socialist Republic, Cambodia, Canada, Ceylon,  China, Costa Rica, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Denmark,  Dominican Republic, Egypt, El Salvador, France,  German Federal Republic, Greece, Guatemala, Haiti,  Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran, lsrael, Italy, Japan,  Jordan (Hashemite Kingdom of), Laos, Libya, Monaco,  New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, Panama, Poland,  Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Ukrainian  Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of South Africa, USSR,  United Kingdom, United States of America, Uruguay,  Viet-Nam, Yugoslavia.
(7) The Committee recomended that the delegations  of the above-mentioned States be allowed to take part  in the eighth session of the General Conference, Cre-  dentials were submitted by the representatives of the  States listed hereunder in the form of letters, tele-  grams or other instruments issued by a Minister of
1-2 PLENARY  the State they represented other than the Minister of  Foreign Affairs and not duly authorized by the latter,  or by heads of diplomatic missions or by senior offi-  clals of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: Argentina,  Belgium, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Hondu-  ras, Iraq, Korea, Lebanon, Liberia, Mexico, Nether-  lands, Pakistan, Philippines, Turkey.
(8) The Committee suggested that these instruments  be accepted as provisional credentials from the above-  mentioned States, subject to the later submission of  credentials in due form, and that meanwhile the said  delegations be admitted to take part in the eighth ses-  sion of the General Conference,
(9) The Committee noted that some Member States  had not furnished their delegations with credentials.  The Committee decided to authorize its Chairman to  report direct to the General Conference on any  credentials that might be received from those Member  States before the next meeting of the Committee,
(10) The Committee then considered the credentials  of observers representing the following States not  Members of Unesco: Bulgaria, Holy See, Portugal  and Rumania,
(11) The Committee also examined the documents  accrediting the representative of the Saar as observer,
(12) The Committee then examined the credentials of  the observers from the Gold Coast, Sierra Leone,the  British Caribbean Group and the Malaya-British  Borneo Group.
(13) Lastly, the Committee examined the credentials  of the representatives of the following international  organizations: International Labour Organization,  World Health Organization, The Committee recom-  mended the General Conference to admit the above-  mentioned observers and representatives,
(14) The delegate of the USSR called for a separate  vote on the inclusion of China in the list of Member  States whose delegations had submitted their creden-  tials in accordance with Rule 22 of the Rules of Pro-  cedure of the General Conference. The following  States voted in favour of the inclusion of China in that  part of the report: Egypt, France, Philippines, United  Kingdom, United States of America and Uruguay.  Against: USSR, Abstention: Indonesia.
(15) The following States voted in favour of adopting  the whole of the report: Egypt, France, Indonesia,  Philippines, United Kingdom, United States of Ame-  rica and Uruguay. Against: USSR.
(16) The PRESIDENT:  USSR.  I call upon the delegate of
(17) Mr, STOLETOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) (Translation from the Russian): The  delegation of the Soviet Union has already drawn the  attention of the General Conference to the abnormal  situation which has arisen with regard to the  representation of the Chinese People's Republic in  Unesco and its organs.
(18) The position is that the great Chinese People's  Republic, which has an ancient culture and plays an  outstanding rôle alongside the other Great Powers in  the settlement of international issues, is up to the  present not represented in Unesco, while the seats  of the lawful representatives of China in Unesco are  occupied by people from the Kuomintang Chiang Kai-  shek group, which the Chinese people have long since    MEETINGS  disavowed once and for all. The only lawful Govern-  ment of China, representing the interests of the 600  million Chinese people, is the Government of .he  Chinese People's Republic, and only this Government  can authorize its spokesmen on behaif of China to par-  ticipate in the work of the United Nations Educational,  Scientific and Cultural Organization. Accordingly, the  Soviet delegation submitted a proposal to the Creden-  tials Committee concerning non-recognition of the  credentials of the representatives of the Kuomintang  Chiang Kai-shek group. The adoption of this proposal  would meet the interests of peace-loving peoples. It  would conform to the principles and standards of inter -  national law and promote the development of all-round  co-operation among peoples in the field of culture  and science, Since this proposal has not received  the requisite majority of votes in the Credentials Com-  mittee, the Soviet delegation, for the sake of develon-  ing cultural relations between peoples that will conduce  to international peace and security, deems it necessary  to submit this question for the consideration of the  Plenary Conference, The delegation of the USSR sub-  mits the following draft resolution for consideration  by the Conference:  "The General Conference,  In view of the proposal of the delegation of the  USSR concerning non-recognition of the creden-  tials of the representatives of the Kuomintang Chiang  Kai-shek group at the eighth session of the Unasco  General Conference,  Decides to consider invalid the credentials of the  representatives of the Kuomintang Chiang Kai-shek  group. "
(19) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) (Transla-  tion from the French): Mr. President, ladies and  gentlemen, I wish to make a small factual amend-  ment regarding the credentials of the Brazilian dele-  gation. The decree appointing the deicgation was  signed by the Head of the State on 22 October last, It  was notified by the Minister of Foreign Affairs to the  Brazilian Ambassador in Uruguay. The Brazilian  Ambassador in Uruguay is the personal representa-  tive of the President of the Republic of Brazil. The  Ambassador transmitted this communication to the  Director-General of Unesco. We therefore consider  that our situation vis-a-vis the Organization is in  complete conformity with the existing rules of pro-  cedure,
(20) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL: I am informed that,  while a decree signed by the President, mentioned  by the Brazilian delegate, has been received, there  is a minor point in the Rules which has not been ob-  served, namely, that powers must also be signed and  transmitted to the Director-General.
(21) The PRESIDENT: Does any other member wish  to speak on this? I call upon the representative of  China,
(22) Mr. HU CHING YU (China): The Soviet delega-  tion has just proposed to have my delegation ousted  and to have its seat given to the people's régime.  That is nothing new. As you will recall, they or their  satellites have tried more than a hundred times and  have failed more than a hundred times at international  - 42 -   PLENARY  conferences both within and without the framework of  the United Nations. I am confide it that this time they  will fail again, The Soviet Union has been hostile to-  wards Unesco ever since its foundation. It was the  Soviet Union which tried to postpone the Conference  of Unesco until the Economic and Social Council had  been established. It wes the Soviet Union which objected  to the transfer to Unesco of the property formerly  belonging to the International Institute of Intellectual  Co-operation of the League of Nations. It  was the Soviet Univn which took strong exception to  the admission of the German Federal Republic, Japan,  Viet-Nam, Cambodia and Laos when their applica -  tions for admission were supported by the Economic  and Social Council. Three of their satellites even  went so far as to announce their withdrawal from  Unesco in protest against the admission of Spain, after  that admission had been duly approved by the General  Conference of Unesco. The Soviet Press and Soviet  publications have at times accused Unesco of “serving  the interest of var-mongers" and of "defending the  policy of American aspirants to world dominion". In  short, the Soviet Union has been boycotting, discre-  diting, sneering at and obstructing the good work of  Unesco for almost nine years. Now they have deci-  ded to join the Organization and have already become  a member of it, Does this mean a change of mind?  A change of policy? Or merely a change of tactics?  For us this question is not difficult to answer. Iam  sure that they will continue to pursue the same policy,  but this time with new tactics and as a full member,  Their attempt to get my delegation ousted is but one  of many steps that they have mapped out in order to  harm Unesco, in pursuance of the same old policy.  As for the Soviet proposal, 1 have much to say, but at  the present stage of the Conference I shall put it as  briefly as I can, lest I play into the hands of the So-  viet delegation, one of whose aims in introducing  such proposals is apparently to waste the invaluable  time of the Conference.
(23) I shall confine myself to two of the most impor-  tant points, Firstly, the position of the Government  I represent is unchallengeable. It is the same Gov-  ernment which, in 1945, co-sponsored the San Fran-  cisco Conference leading to the foundation of the  United Nations, and the same Government which  caused China to become one of the members of Unes-  co, It is the only Chinese Government which en)oys  the support of the Chinese people. This is evident  from the fact that more than 80 per cent of the so-  called Korean prisoners of war have chosen Free  China as the land of their repatriation, and that more  than 90 per cent of overseas Chinese have demons-  rated their loyalty to my Government. The status  of its delegations has been repeatedly upheld by all  international conferences and organizations, ! feel  strongly that, as Unesco is an organization of a non-  political nature, here is not the proper place to fight  ouc the issues involved in the Soviet proposal, I  fvrther maintain that it is for the Economic and Social  Council to look to the General Assembly, and for  Unesco to !ook to the Economic and Social Council,  for guidance on this issue. Now that both the Gene-  ral Assembly and the Economic and Social Council  are in session with the delegations sent by my Gov-  ernment in full participation, why should we waste  our time in discussing the Soviet proposal? Under  - 43 -     MEETINGS u-2  these circumstances, the best course that this Con-  ference can follow is, 1 suggest, to dismiss this pro-  posal summarily without discussion,
(24) In the second place, what the Soviet proposal  seeks to achieve is not only the ousting of my delega-  tion but also the admission of the Peiping régime, In  this connexion, I must tell you that that régime is a  purely Soviet creation, It was created and is main-  tained, controlled and directed by the Soviet Union,  Since its inception it has been employed by the Soviet  Union as an instrument of aggression, and has been  declared such by the United Nations, For these and  other reasons none of the international organizations  has seen fit to grant it a seat, As one of the object-  ives of Unesco is to promote cultural co-operation, it  naturally has further cause to deny that régime the  right of participation. Basically, the Peiping régime  is un-Chinese in origin, in character and in purpose.  They see no good in what is known to us as Chinese  culture, and in fact are trying in every way to des-  troy it. They are busy re-writing Chinese history to  their liking, burning books not in line with their ideo-  logy, purging the minds of all who see China in the  true light and, above all, killing all intellectuals who  fail to respond ‘2 their indoctrination. In a word, they  a: = <2. 1-7 ‘0thing ahort of the total enslavement  of our whole people. Not even the right of silence is  to be tolerated. If such a régime were allowed to re-  present China in Unesco, it would be an insult to  Chinese culture, to the Chinese as a nation and to this  Organization itself. 1 appeal to you, Mr. President  and fellow delegates, to have the Soviet proposal vo-  ted out without discussion.
(25) The PRESIDENT: 1 call upon the delegate of the  United States of America.
(26) Mr. NUFER (United States of America): In  the Credentials Committee the United States delega-  tion presented the following motion:  "That the General Conference decides to postpone  consideration at its eighth session of any proposals  to exclude the repreresentatives of the Government  of the Republic of China or to seat representatives  of the Central Peoplets Government of the People's  Republic of China."
(27) This motion was approved damocratically by a  vote of 6 to 1 and the United States delegation is sur-  prised that the matter has been raised again. The  motion of the United States delegation has now become  a resolution of the Credentials Committee and as such  is before the Conference. It is a procedural resolu-  tion and therefore under Rules 75 and 77 has priority  over the proposal of the Soviet Union and must be  voted on first,
(28) The PRESIDENT: I call upon the delegate of the  United Kingdom.
(29) Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom): The  British delegation is exceedingly anxious that the  careful consideration which has been given to this  motion by the Credentials Committee shall not be  disturbed. Her Majesty's Government in the United  Kingdom have made it clear on numerous occasions  that they regard the Central People's Government as  the Government of China. Nevertheless, they believe
11-2 PLENARY  that there are still many disadvantages in a debate on  the question at the present time, and consequently  think it appropriate, as has been suggested by the de-  legate of the United States of America, that the ques-  tion now raised should be postponed for the present  conference,
(30) The PRESIDENT: 1 call upon the delegate of  Poland.
(31) Mr. MICHALOWSKI (Poland): The problem of  the representation of China in our Organization is of  great importance and may affect all the future work  of Unesco, We are facing an absurd situation andthe  great Chinese nation of 600 millions is prevented  from participating in the work of Unesco and cannot  join in our e‘forts to strengthen and broaden inter-  national co-operation in the field of education, science  and culture, For five years we have been facing this  abnormal situation, During this time the Central  People's Government has strengthened its authority  within the country and has carried out a number of  ma jor social and educational reforms, On the basis  of its ancient culture, the Chinese nation is develop-  ing new cultural values, spreading education among  the people and promoting science and art.
(32) The continuance of this fiction by which the seat  of China in our Organization is occupied by the Kuo-  mintang delegation is a paradox, This group repre-  sents a set of political bankrupts dependent only on  the support of the armed forces of the United States  of America; it does not in any way represent either  the Chinese people or Chinese culture and science,  Nor can it contribute to the development of our work.  You all know the principle of the Constitution of Unes-  co which claims that: "Since wars begin in the minds  of men, it is in the minds of men that the defences of  peace must be constructed”. The whole record of the  Kuomintang indicates that they place all their hopes  in war, they aim at increasing tension in internation-  al relations, It has been proved by their piratical  activity, to which, among others, two Polish ships  recently fell victims. On the other hand, we know of  the peaceful efforts of the Chinese People's Govern-  ment, recently proved by the liquidation of the con-  flict in Indo-China. China is developing good neigh-  bourly relations with other nations, for example, with  India. The People's China demonstrates its readiness  to enter into and strengthen cultural relations on the  basis of respect for other cultures and for other po-  litical systems, Under these conditions, the further  barring of China from participation in the work of  Unesco is misguided; it is also harmful to our Or-  ganization and detrimental to the development and  strengthening of international co-operation in the  field of culture, a co-operation which is our most  important aim and should be the goal of all who really  seek peace and the peaceful development of civiliza-  tion. The argument brought up before this Confer-  ence that it is for the United Nations to decide the  problem of China's representation, we consider irre-  levant. Unesco is a sovereign body and may decide  this problem for itself. Finally, there is the motion  of the United States of America, In our opinion, this  is a resolution of substance and the Soviet resolution,  which we support, should be voted upon first.  - 44 -     MEETINGS
(33) The PRESIDENT: We have before us an amend-  ment to the report of the Credentials Committee by  USSR which says:  ‘The General Conference,  In view of the proposal by the delegation of the  USSR concerning non-recognition of the credentials  of the Kuomintang representatives of the Chiang  Kai-shek group at the eighth session of the Unesco  General Conference, decides to consider invalid the  credentials of the Kuomintang representatives of the  Chiang Kai-shek group at the eighth session of the  General Conference of Unesco, "
(34) On this amendment the United States of America  has proposed that the discussion of this question be  postponed under Article 75. That proposal has prio-  rity and I am therefore putting to the vote the United  States amendment that the question of non-recognition  be postponed,
(35) (The motion for postponement was carried by
(36) We will now vote on the Credentials Committee's  report.
(37) (The report was carried by 43 votes to 4.)  ADOPTION OF TRE REVISED AGENDA
(38) The PRESIDENT: I call on the Chairman of the  Executive Board.
(39) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive  Board): In accordance with Rules 9 to 12 of the Rules  of Procedure, the Executive Board has drawn up the  revised agenda of the General Conference which you  have in front of you in document 8C/1 (Rev.). This  revised agenda contains the items listed in the provi-  sional agenda and supplementary items proposed, in  accordance with the Rules of Procedure, No.9, by  Member States, the Executive Board and the Director-  General,
(40) On behalf of the Executive Board I propose the  adoption of the revised agenda.
(41) The PRESIDENT: Your attention is called to  Corrigendum 1, 8C/1 (Rev.) dated 9 November 1954.  Any observations? Those for adopting the agenda?...
(42) (The revised agenda is adopted unanimously.)  ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE
(43) The Nominations Committee will consist of the  Heads of all delegations entitled to vote at the Con-  ference, The Head of a delegaticn may delegate ano-  ther member of the delegation to attend meetings and  vote in his place. The representative of each delega-  tion in the Committee may be .assisted by another  member. This Committee will elect its own chair-  man, It has to suggest the names of the President  and the 10 Vice-Presidents of the General Conference.  The Nominations Committee will meet immediately in  Room 3. The Plenary meeting is suspended till the  Nominations Committee submits its report.   PLENARY  The meeting was adjourned at 4,35 p.m,  The meeting was resumed at 6.05 p.m.  REPORT OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE AND ELECTION  OF THE PRESIDENT AND TEN VICF-PRESIDENTS OF THE  GENERAL CONFERENCE
(44) The PRESIDENT: The Chairman of the Nomi-  nations Committee will present his report.
(45) Mr, KABIR (India) (Chairman of the Nomina-  tions Committee): On behalf of the Nominations Com-  mittee I have the honour to present the following  names for the various officers of this Conference,  For the President: the delegate of Uruguay;  for the ten Vice-Presidents: the delegates of  Brazil, France, Italy, Japan, Pakistan, Spain, Thai-  land, United Kingdom, United States of America,  Union of Soviet Socialist Republics;  for the Programme Commission: the delegate of  Switzerland;  for the Administrative Commission: the delegate  of New Zealand;  for the Legal Committee: the delegate of Egypt;  for the Nominations Committee: the delegate of  India;  for the Credentials Committee: the delegate of  Colombia;  for the Advisory Committee on Programme and  Budget: the delegate of Australia;  for the Committee on Reports of Member States:  the delegate of Iraq;  for the Headquarters Committee: the delegate of  Venezuela.
(48) In presenting this report, may i, on behalf of  the delegation of India, and on my own behalf, sup-  port the proposal made for e'acting the Minister of  Education of Uruguay as the i’resident of this Confe-  rence. l am sure you will all .gree that this country  has a small population but a great heart, about which  we heard this morning. It has opened its doors to  people of all races and to ideals of all kinds, and it  is the right and fitting place for holding the session  of Unesco. ,I think we are very fortunate in having  the Minister of Education of Uruguay as the Presi-  dent of this Conference.
(47) The PRESIDENT: Your applause indicates that  youapprove the nomination of this delegate of Uruguay  to preside over the Conference. 1 will now request  him to come forward and take the Presidential  Chair.  (Mr. Zavala Muniz, Uruguayan Minister of Educa-  tion and Social Welfare, took the Chair.)
(48) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Ladies and gentlemen, it is with profound feelings of  gratitude and emotion that I accept the honour which  has just been conferred, not on my person, but on  my country. I am sure that Uruguay, when it learns  of the vote you have taken, will regard it as one of  MEETINGS
45 -  the highest honours in the whole of its history. For  my part, I cun only promise to do my duty with the  utmost conscientiousness and to conduct your  proceedings to the best of my ability.
(48) The applause of the Assembly leads me to be-  lieve that the proposal for nominating the ten Vice-  Presidents has been approved by acclamation. This  being the case, I will ask the delegations of the ten  States elected to indicate the names of their repre-  sentatives,
(50) The names submitted were as follows:  Brazil : Mr. Berredo Carneiro  France Mr. Berthoin  Italy Mr, Badini Confalonieri  Japan Mr, Sawada  Pakistan : Mr. Husain Qureshi  Spain + Mr, Ruiz Gimenez  Thailand : Mom Luang Pin Malakul  United  Kingdom : Sir Ben Bowen Thomas  United  States of  America Mr. Nufer  USSR : Mr. Stoletov
(51) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  We shall now proceed to appoint the Programme and  Budget Commission and the Administrative Commis-  sion, and elect their Chairmen, A: you are aware,  the General Committee of the Conference will meet  tomorrow at 8 a.m. in Room 4 and, in order thatthis  body may be at full strength the Chairmen of these  Commissions should be appointed as early as possible.  The Nominations Committee met this afternoon in ac-  cordance with its terms of reference, Following a  precedent set by several General Conferences, I  propose that, instead of calling meetings of the two  Commissions in different rooms in order to elect their  Chairmen, we should meet here together after hearing  the Nominations Committee's report and noting the  proposals, I will therefore ask delegates to remain  in their seats and we will first call a meeting of the  Programme and Budget Commission, with myself in  the Chair, and invite it to elect its Chairman. We  shall next close the meeting of the Programme and  Budget Commission, and in the same way convene  the Administrative Commission so that it may in its  turn elect its Chairman,
(52) Once this second election is completed, we shall  again meet in plenary session and return to the agenda  of the General Conference. This procedure has the  advantage of securing the speedy election of the two  Chairmen of commissions, so that, when these bodies  meet for the first time, their Chairmen will already  be in office and able to-start their work.
(53) I would further remind delegations that tomorrow,  Saturday, 13 November, we are due to begin the gene-  ral debate on the report of the Director-General and  that delegations should inform the Secretariat of the  meeting at which they desire to speak in the general  discussion,  The meeting rose at 6.25 p. m.