VvI-6 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  SIXTH MEETING
4 November 1954 at 10 a.m.  tairman Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Australia)  ITEM 7.2 OF THE AGENDA PRFLIMINARY CONSIDFRATION  OF THE DRAFT PROGRAMME AND BUDGET FOR 1933-36,  BEFORE THE OPENING OF THE SESSION (continued)
(1) The CHAIRMAN drew the attention of the meeting  to document 0809 4784, setting out the technical aid  projects throughout the programme, and opened the  debate on fundamental education, on the basis of  document 8C/DIV/30, upon the production of which  he congratulated the Secretariat.
(2) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) ex-  plained that document 8C/DIV/30, ‘Fursamental  Education: Reference to various chapters of the  draft programme and budget for 1955-1956, rep-  resentea a first experiment to control interdepart-  mental co-ordination in a specific .eld of work.  The principle of selection, which Yad inspired the  drafting of the document ‘ua led to the elimination  of a large number of rriated activities and to the  retention only of those most directly connected with  fundamental education. It had not seemed desirable  to draw up a list of activities merely by juxtaposi-  tion, following the same order as the chapters of  the Proposed Programme and Budget for 1955-1956.  On the contrary, effort was directed towards setting  out in their sequence the questions relating to the  problem of fundamental education and to show for  each of them the action taken or to be undertaken  by Unesco.
(3) The Assistant Director-General said that such  action was envisaged in the first place from the  angle of a scientific study of the social problems of  fundamental education; thus it came under the  Department of Social Sciences (Section 1).
(4) Section Il was concerned with the techniques to  be used for improving methods. It mentioned, in  particular, projects of the Department of Education.
(5) Section III represented direct ac‘ion by Unesco  for the traimng of specialists. The production of  reading material for the newly literate was a new  departure and should be inserted, as Section IV,  after Section III.
(6) The former Section IV of the document (now  Section V) was general aid to fundamental education  projects. It represented a limited activity by  Unesco, depending essentialiy upon Member States.  With the exception of the Gift Coupon Scheme, it  was the concern of the Department of Education.
(7) The final section, now renumbered VI, was a  new item: the Secretariat felt that in future any  action taken by Unesco should be completed by a  phase of evaluation,
(8) The Assistant Directur-General added that the  total budget for the projects relating to fundamental  education set out in document 8C/DIV/30 amounted  for the two years 1955 and 1956 to $2, 000, 000,  half of which came under thz Education chapter,  and the other half was spread over the remaining  Department concerned, The total i.gure represent  ed approximately 15% of the sums budgeted for the  execution of the programme, excluding the Docu-  ments and Publications Service. (Proposed Pro-  gramme and Budget for 1955-1956, Part II). -
(9) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) expressed his  delegation's approval of the work on fundamental  education, but feared there was a tendency on the  part of Unesco to go beyond the original conception  in 1ts relations with the Associated Projects,
(10) Mr, JUNANKAR (India) commended the pro-  jects, with special reference to the production of  reading material for new literates.
(11) Mr, LEE (United States of America) felt that  a high pricrity chonld be accorded to the projects  on fundamental education. It was important to  evaluate these, with a view to remodelling the pro-  gramme. He approved the stress laid on education  for international understanding. Another pleasing  aspect of the programme was the participation of  women and the effort to do away with all racial and  other forms of discrimination,  Statistical data (Social Sciences, paragraphs 98  and 99)
(12) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of  Social Sciences) informed the meeting that the  Statistics Division provided regular data on illiter-  acy as part of its routine activities. An historical  survey of the dramatic changes in the field of ht-  eracy (paragraph 98) would prove more interesting,  It was hoped to have this document ready by 1955.
(13) Paragraphs 98 and 89 were adopted.  Sqcial Studies (Social Sciences, paragraphs 201  and 211-13)
(14) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of  Social Sciences) explained that community deve-  lopment was the term which covered all local  self-help projects. Knowledge of the basic con-  ditions of local community structurc had been   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON  found to be lacking and it had therefore been pro-  posed, in close co-operation with the United  Nations, to make a world-wide survey of types.
(15) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) questioned why,  if that v.ork was to be printed 1n 1956, a sum should  be allocated to staff travel during that year.
(16) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of  Social Sciences) replied that details of travel would  depend on the countries most interested in co-  operating. As it could not be planned in advance,  the allocation had been made in that approximate  form for budget reasons,
(17) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) asked whether  it would be possible at that stage to indicate what  professional scientific organizations would receive  the contracts mentioned in paragraph 211.
(18) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of  Social Sciences) said that the International Political  Science Association was interested, and that Unesco  would probably have the co-operation of the Inter-  national Union of Local Authorities,
(19) Mr. LEE (United States of America) reaffirmed  his delegation's view that such surveys should be  strictly limited to facts bearing a real relationship  to programmes, and should rely for research  largely on the National Commissions, non-govern-  mental organizations, etc.
(20) The CHAIRMAN, speaking as delegate for  Australia, supported Mr. Lee's suggestions.
(21) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of  Social Sciences) said that the budget envisaged did  not suffice for obtaining all the information needed,  and Unesco was relying on the co-operation of  Member States and non-governmental organizations,  She added that the study was of great value to the  programme of fundamental education, as well as  to the whole United Nations Community Development  programme.
(22) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) said that the Mexican  National Commission had asked Unesco to under-  take a study of the social repercussions of agrarian  reform in his country.
(23) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of  Social Sciences) pointed out that the work on com-  munity development in Mexico had been connected  with land reform.  II. Improvement of Methods and Techmques of  Fundamental Education
1. Diffusion of Technical Information on Funda-  mental Education (Education, paragraphs 76 and
107 and 108)
(24) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa-  tion) said that this was one of the most important  aspects of the work. Unesco relied on it for brief-  ing 1ts field workers, supplying them with  - 673 -     PROGRAMME AND LU DGET vI-6  preparatory information, and assisting Member  States in reaching conclusions on fundamental  (ducation problems. He added that the word  complete in the first line of the English text  (paragraph 76) was misleading. It would be more  appropriate to say full. The quarterly bulletin  (paragraph 107) was a useful link between workers  in the field and officials in mimstries, Six thousand  copies appeared in English, 3,000 in French, apa:  from the regioi il versions now undertaken.
(25) Adopted.
2. Metheds of teaching how to read and write  (Education, paragraph 268)
(26) Mr. BOW (Carada) highly commended the  kind of practical activity proposed in this para-  graph,
(27) Adopted.
3. The use of a language of wide communication  in relation to the use of vernacular languages in  fundamental education (Education, paragraphs
(28) Mr, ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa-  tion) explained that these paragraphs dealt with a  difficulty that arose in mnany parts of the world.  On principle it was best to teach people to read  and write the language they spoke, but where their  vernacular was not widely spread or had orly re-  cently acquired an alphabet, they might prefer to  learn a language in world use. Two phases had  therefore been planned.
(22) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) expressed ap-  proval of the project.
4, Rôle cf libraries in fundamental education  Seminar on public library development in Asia
(31) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cul-  tural Activities) drew attention to the role of  public libraries in the development of fundamental  education; their effectiveness was indisputable.  The experiment fhey made at the Delhi Public  Library would be completed in the current year.  For 1955, the intention was to extend this experi-  ment to 30 librarians from 12 other Asian countries  so that the good results already obtained might be  repeated throughout the region.
(32) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) supported  the 1dea.
(33) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) commended it highly.  The project in Delhi had done very good work for  the last five years,  Filot project for library development in Africa  (Cultural Activities, paragraphs 219-222)
(34) Mr, THOMAS (Director, Department of   Vi-6 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  Cultural Activities) describea the main features of  the pilot project for the development of public lib-  raries in Africa. A semina: had been held in  Nigeria the previous year and librarians and educa-  tors had attended it. A member of the Secretariat  had gone to the region during 1954 and should soon  be handing in his report on public libraries in  Africa and on the recommrnaations made at the  Ibadan seminar, especially as concerned the plan-  ning of the pilot project. The General Conference  would be asked to decide on the choice of country  and on the desirability of organizing =» centre for  servicing the mobile libraries,
(35) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) favoured a  high priority for this prcject.  Education for librarianship in Arab States (Cultural  Activities, paragraphs 244-251)  {36) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultu-  ral Activities) said that the difficulty arose from  the complete absence in these States of librarians  acquainted with modern methods. What they now  had to do was to tackle the problem methodically  from 1955 onwards with the co-operation of the  Sirs-el-Layyan Fundamental Education Centre.
(37) Approved.  Technical aid to Member States (Cultural Activities,  paragraphs 257-263)
(38) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultu-  ral Activities) had little to say about technical aid  in the development of libraries in rural areas. The  task would be principally one of advising and aiding  Member States at their request and giving them the  advantage of the experience gained by the Orgamza-  tion in other regions,
(39) Paragraphs 257-263 were approved.
5. Rôle of museums in fundamental education  (paragraphs 296-298)
(40) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultu-  ra: Activities) compared this pilot project for an  educational museum in the Patzcuaro Fundamental  Education Centre with the project for training quali-  fied librarians at the Sirs-el-Layyan Centre. Its  object was to adapt to fundamental education the  technical methods used in museums, by establishing  a small educational museum in the Centre itself and  organizing a number of travelling exhibitions, The  scheme would also provide an opportunity for train-  ing specialists,
(41) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) said that his Govern-  ment was not opposed to the pilot project's being  conducted at Patzcuaro by the museums expert but  suggested that it be given a lower priority. The  expert was dealing with Tarascan art, with which  he was possibly insufficiently acquainted. Mr.  Siller therefore thought that these efforts might  be more effectively directed towards other  projects,  - 674 -
(42) Mr, AVIDOR (Israel) supported the suggestion  by the delegate of Mexico.
(43) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultu-  rai Activities) said it was not clear to him why the  delegates of Mexico and Israel were asking for a  lower priority. He explained that there was not  the slightest intention of opening yet another  museum at Patzcuaro - there were already two  which were functioning very well and the Centre  could rely on their co-operation. What they were  trying to do was to use, for the development of  fundamental education, the visual methods employed  in museums and to disseminate these methods by  training a certain number of specialists for the  other countries.
(44) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa-  tion) in support of the proposal made in the docu-  ment, said that the existing museum at Patzcuaro  did not fulfil the function for which the museum  expert was prcvided, i.e. to use museum techniques  in order to improve the basic education of a com-  nunity.
(45) Mr. BOW (Canada) supported the suggestion  of the delegate of Mexico,
(46) The motion for reducing the priority of this  activity was carried by 8 in favour, 2 against.  Regional seminar on the use of museum techniques  in fundamental education (1956) (Cultural Activities,  paragraphs 299-301).
(47) Approved.  Paragraphs 304-311
(48) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultu-  ral Activities) observed that the idea behind the  seminar provided for in paragraphs 304-311 was  the same as in the case of the project just discussed.  The Brooklyn and Athens seminars had provided  lessons which should be turned to account. It was  particularly important to provide for the training  of specialists for the travelling exhibitions (museo-  " buses}, which might circulate in czuntries where  there were no regular museums.
(48) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) asked for  reconsideration of this scheme. There were other  things more important than mobile museums, such  as the training of museum curators, research into  the preservation of museum objects under tropical  conditicns, etc. A considerable reduction of  expenses might be effected here. If, however, the  revision were not undertaken, he would like to see  a mention of the International Council of Museums,  whose services should be made use of.
(50) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultu-  ral Activities) thought Mr, Cowell had made an  important point. No mention had been made of  the International Council of Museums in connexion  with the project, but they were of course counting  on its collaboration. It was the only body cf its  kind for which an increased subvention was made  in the Proposed Programme and Budget for    ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VI-6
1255-56 in the Chapter on Cultural Activities.
(51) Some misunderstanding had perhaps crept into  the discussion: the purpose of the museobus was  not to preserve the cultural heritage of Member  States but to develop fundamental education by taking  exhibitions formed for that purpose to the spots  where they were needed.
(52) Mr. LEE (United States of America) supported  the suggestion of the United Kingdom delegate, The  activity should be given a low priority.
(53) Mr. JUNANKAR (india) said that the use of  museums as a medium of education was Leginning  to be appreciated in India. Travelling exhibitions  were very successful in largely illiterate populations  as a part of adult education programmes. ne opposed  giving this activity a low priority.
(54) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) supported the delegate of  India. In areas where there were no museums such  work could meet a basic need.
(55) The CHAIRMAN asked the delegate of the  United Kingdom whether, in the light of what had  been said, he could formulate his proposal in terms  of low priority only, or whether he wished for a  modified project,
(56) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) could not at  that stage work out a modified project. He there-  fore asked that the scheme be given low priority.
(57) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) explained that he was  opposed to the pilot project, not on grounds of prin-  ciple, but on account of the special circumstances  In that case. Accordingly, if tie Indian delegate  thought that the project for South East Asia should  be proceeded with, the Mexican delegation would  support it.
(58) Mr. CABOUAT (France) thought that travelling  exhibitions would be useful even in countries with  well developed regular museums, like the countries  of Western Europe. Over and above their specific  purpose - the development of fundamental education -  mobile museums would awaken interest in Unesco  and its activities among the general public. In con-  clusion he wished to exoress his hearty support of  the proposal put forward by Mr. Junankar,
(59) A vote was then taken on the motion of reducing  the priority of the seminar workshop on the building  of travelling exhibitions and a mobile museum for  South East Asia (paragraphs 304-311) which was  rejected with 4 in favour and 7 against.
8, Rôle of teaching of arts and crafts in fundamental  education (Cultural Activities, paragraphs 182-4)
(60) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultu-  ral Activities) observed that the Committee had  already discussed the rôle of the arts and crafts in  fundamental education from the standpoint of tech-  nical aid to Member States.
(61) The CHAIRMAN replied that technical aid to  - 675 -     Member States had been examined from a vertical  perspective, it would now be taken from a hori-  zontal one.
(62) Approved.
7. Use of the means of communication for funda-  mental education (Education, paragraph 280 and  paragraphs 165-183 of Mass Communication)
(63) Mr. DESJARDINS (Deparument of Mass Com-  munication), speaking of the use of mass media for  fundamental education and particularly of the pro-  duction of films for that purpose (paragraphs 165-
176) observed that these projects would have to be  carried out in full agreement with Member States.  Neveri..lc~s the local production of films had been  mainly in the form of silent 16 mm. reels and it  was not at present possible to judge the results on  the spot since the countries where the films had  been shot had no laboratories. A very simple type  of mobile development kit would need to be made  available to film units at low cost through some  form of hiring.
(64) Another difficulty, both financial and linguistic,  was the production of sound films in local languages.  There were nevertheless grounds for hoping that  the current projects would lead to the formatiun of  independent low cost local production centres, with  the aid of the standard magnetic process, In 1956,  there was to be a pilot project upon which would be  based a detailed report and precise conclusions on  the practical possibilities.
(65) Mr. LEE (United States of America) made a  criticism, which however he huped was no longer  valid, on the lack of co-ordination between educa-  tion specialists and specialists in mass communi-  cation.
(66) Mr, MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  assured the United States delegate that there was  full co-ordination be*ween the services of the  Departments of Mass Communication and of Edu-  cation in the matter of fundamental education;  without such close co-operation the proposed pro-  gramme could not be carried out.
(67) Mr, ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa-  tion) added that his Department had always received  excellent co-operation from members of the  Department of Mass Communication. He quoted  the Messina Seminar as a particularly fruitful  example,  Visual aid kits for fundamental education (Mass  Communication, paragraphs 177 and 178)  t68) Mr, DESJARDINS (Department of Macs Com-  munication) explained that these kits had been put  together as a result of the Messina Seminar; they  were packed in eight strong cases which could be  lent to Member States on request, Four other  cases were to he made up on slightly different  subjects.
(69) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) supported the   VI-6 ADVISORY COMMITIEE ON  project, but thought that the Organizition of American  States should be asked to co-operate.
(70) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) said  that, on 20 October 1954, the Director-General had  signed in Washington an agreement between the  Organization of American States and Unesco for the  development nf fundamental education in Latin  America, The purpose of the agreement was to con-  tinue the arrangements - due to expire in 1954 - which  had enabled the Patzcuaro experiment to take place  and to extend the experiment to the whole of Latin  America.
(71) The project fcr visual aid kits was approved.  Influence of educational broadcasts (paragraphs
179 and 1:0)
(72) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Muss Com-  munication) explained that through lack of funds the  educational influence of radio broadcasts had not  been adequately exploited ‘n the underdeveloped  countries, Pilot projects, like the one already  carried out in Colombia, were planned for Egypt  and that should make 1t possinle to work out the  necessary techniques (paragraphs 179 and 180).
(73) The project wus approved,
(74) Continuing, Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of  Mass Communication) made some explanatory re-  marks about the production of reading material for  new literates (paragraphs 181 and 182 of the Chapter  on Mass Communication and Section IV of document
8C/D1V/30), He pointed out that the Department of  Mass Communication was merely carrying the work  of the Department of Education a stage further  {paragraph 311 of the Chapter on Fducation). His  Department's project provided for direct action in  tne shape of a contract to be concluded with the  Graphic Arts Foundation of the United States of  Arnerica. The aim was to cumpensate for the com-  plete absence of a daily press in some countries and  of a press suitable for new literates in others.
(75) Paragraphs 181 ard 192 were approved.  Regional Film Library for the Middle East (Mass  Communication, paragraphs 184 and 183)
(76) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  munication) reported that the Ford Foundation and  the University of Syracuse (United States of America)  had undertaken to collect the material for a report  which v 1s expected to reach Unesco in the near  tuture. The scheme provided for an expert to be  placed at the disposal of the Film Library to get it  into working order. There would also be provision  for visual aids.
(77) Paragraphs 184 and 185 were approved.  Use of television for fundamental education (Mass  Communication, paragraphs 186 and 187)
(78) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass  PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  Communication) explained this project, quoting tie  experience acquired In a country where broud-  casting was technically backward. The proposal  was to organize group listening with the assistance  of Member States and to study the results secured,  paying special attention to the solution of local  difficulties regarding the maintenance of equipment,
(79) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  observed that a pilot project had been carried ont  in France and could be extended to Japan, where  television was developing rapidly.
(80) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) supported the 1dco so far,  as concerned radio, but thought that the project for  Asia in 1956 based on television should be post-  poned. It was too early to use television as a means  of education in that continent.
(81) Mr, COWELL (Umted Kingdom) seconded the  suggestion by the delegate of Israel.
(82) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  considered that with regard to the attitude to be  adopted towards television, a new phenomenon,  there arose a question of principle. Unesco could  acquire ar influence in that sphere not possible for  it to attain in media such as press and radio, where  the paltern was already set. Would it not be wise  to grasp that opportunity when television was still  only feeling 1ts way? In two years’ time it might  be too late.
(83) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) thought that the point  made by the Assistant Director-General would  apply Just as well 1n 1958 or later.
(84) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) was also  unconvinced. How many television sets were thera  in Japan?
(85) Mr. SOEBROTO (Indonesia) seconded the  proposal by the delegate of Israel.
(86) Mr. LEE (United States of America) suggested  that the project, instead of being suppressed, should  be classed as a low priority one.
(87) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) did not accept that  suggestion.
(88) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) said that the proposal  was being examined in his coumry by the Mimstry  concerned with the television experiment in Bombay.
(89) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  munication) expla:ned that the use of television  would develop in India following the experiment  carried out in Bombay. He then read out a hist of  countries, including some in Asia, which had asked  Unesco to co-operate in the project.
(90) The amendment of the delegate of the United  States of America was not seconded. The motion  put forward by the delegate of Israel, seconded by  the United Kingdom and Indonesian delegates, that  the Committee recommend deferment of the    - 676 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON  project contained in paragraphs 186 and 187 was put  to the vote and adopted with 8 in faveur and 3  abstentions.  Development of the radio forum as a m>ans of  fundamental education (Mass Communic.tion, para-  graphs 188 and 189}  {91) Adopted.  iI. The Training of Fundamental Education  Specia:rsts
1. International Fundamental Education Centres  (Education, paragraphs 290-304)
(32) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educu-  tion) said that two out of the four fundamental educa-  tion training and production centres decided on by  the General ( onference four years ago had now been  under way, Patzcuaro for four years and Sirs-el-  Layyan for two. It had been difficult to finance  them adequately on the budget now ending, particu-  larly owing to the uncertainties of technical assist-  ance. As continued existence on a sound finuncial  basis was looked Hpon as vital, 1t was proposed to  rely no longer on technical assistance for the main-  tenance of students, but to provide out of the normal  budget not only for those of the host countries hut  for all students. Forty thousand dollars were being  contributed by the Crgunization of American States.  The work of both institutes was in good shape. A  reorgamzation had taken place recently at Patzcua ‘o.
(93) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) thought it opportune at  that stage to propose that no conference, seminar  or other activity should be orgarized by or with the  support of Unesco in a region inaccessible for poli-  tical reasons to any Member State, Israel, with  her Arabic schools and educators, was interested in  learmng from and contributing to the Centre in Egypt,  but had been discouraged from doing so, and sub-  sequently the Director-General had stated at a press  conference that Israel had not pressed for a share  in the activities of that Centre,
(94) He read the following statement:  "I wish to bring to the Committee's attention the  following statement on behalf of my Government:  When 1t was proposed, at the sixth session of the  General Conference in 1951, to establish.a funda-  mental education centre 1n the Middle East, my  delegation indicated its interest in such a centre  and proposed that it be established in a place acces-  sible to all Member States. When the centre was  about to be established in Egypt we brought the  matter up before the Secretariat and the Executive  Board, and were assured by the Secretariat, in  writing, that the Egyptian centre would be accessible  to Israeli cuucators.  Our interest in this centre 1s indeed great, for
4e could both learn from it and contribute to it.  We have in Israel an Arab-speaking population and  a network of government schools conducted in  Arabie, and we also have in Israel a small but 1m-  portant group of-educators who are Arabists well  versed :n Arabic and also intimately familiar with  the Arab way of life and Arab mentality.  - 677 -     PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VI-6  We h. d made all necessary preparations to send  a team 0° educators to the centre in Egypt when  it was hirted to us that our request might embar-  rass Ure<co, When the Director-General visited  Israel sev:ral months ago he was asked at a prets  conference why Israel was not participating in the .  Egyptian Centre, His brief answer was that Israel  had not pressed for it. The Director-General was  our guest, and 1, who was present at the press  conference, oreferred not to elaborate on the  matter,  My delegation will support all efforts to improve  education in tte Middle East, including further  support for the Fgyptian Centre, but 1 wish, on  this occasion, ‘o request the members of the Com-  mittee to convey to their delegations our earnest  request - and I want especially to impress 1t on the  Secretariat and all its departments and sections -  that no conference, seminar or any other activity of  a regional nature shall be organized by or with tae  support of Unesco in places that are inaccessible,  for political reasons, to any Member State of this  Orgamzstion, "
(95) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  thought that there was little he could say about  Mr. Avidor's statement. The delegate of Israel  had made his Government's position clear. He  (Mr, Maheu) could but confirm that all Unesco's  regional or local undertikings were subject to  regulations which provided in particular that they  should be open to observers of all the other Member  States.
(96) Currently, Mr, Mahcu added, the Secretariat  was tending to revise its policy on the setting up of  international and regional fundamental education  centres. The original idea had been to create a  world network of regional centres following the  success achieved in Latin America. But Unesco  had, at the very beginning, ccrie up against the  problem of finance in bringing the network into  being. Moreover, there were few regions linguisti-  cally and politically homogenecus enough to ensure  the success of a regional centre. For all these  reasons, the Secretariat was disposed in future to  concentrate rather on the development of national  centres of fundamental education,
(97) Mr. LEE (United States of America) said that  the question of principle raised was an important  one and should be taken note of, but that the Com-  mittee was not the appropriate place for action to  be taken ont.
(98) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) merely wished that such  things should not occur again in the future.
(99) The CHAIRMAN said that the statement by the  delegate of Israel would appear 1 the records.
(100) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) asked whether there  was any connexion between the reorganization  mentioned and the new agreement concluded with  the Orgamzation of American States.
(101) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa -  tion) said he referred merely to an internal   vi-6 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  administrative change. Training of students and  production work at Patzcuaro were to be merged  in order to give the studies greater unity and  efficiency.
(102) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) asked if at  would not be possible to seek further assistance  from outside. Was $40, 000 the last word of the  Organization of American States? The Institutes  had done well enough without the sums Unesco pro-  posed to allocate to students. Were these essertial?
(103) The CHAIRMAN, speaking as delegate of  Australia, on policy rather than on budget, wond:red  whether it was psychologically right to assure the  maintenance of students whose costs should really  be met by the participating countries,
(104) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa-  tion), answering Mr. Cowell's question first, said  that the figure of $40, 000 was the highest the  Organization of American States could give directly,  but they were also contributing through a newly  instituted Bureau for the Production of Materials  for Fundamental Education in Latin America. Other  resources might be found, but 1t would be most  unwise to budget on hopes. In reply to Mr. Cowell's  other remark, he said that the Centres had not got  on well without the proposed allocation from the  budget.
(105) In answer to the Chairman's point, he said  that Member States already maintained the students’  salaries at home, and paid for their travel. Enquiries  had been made, and it was probable that in the Middle  East, where fundamental education had been virtually  unknown before, there would be very few students if  Member States were required to pay for them, while  in Latin America, where the 1dea was more wide-  spread, only a few States would be willing to do so.
(106) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) asked if the  measure might be looked upon as a temporary one,  taken in order to fill a gap.
(107) Mr. ELVIN ‘Director, Department of Educa-  tion) replied that it could concern only the next two  years.
(108) Mr. LEE (United States of America) said  that the foregoing remarks showed how important  it was to make every effort to develop national  centres The United States of America would give  high priority to such efforts.  - 678 -
(109) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa-  tion) pointed out that Mr. Cowell's objections were  met by paragraph 300, which stated that Member  States after 1957 would have to meet maintenance  costs either from cheir own funds or from funds  ear-marked in their technical assistance pro-  grammes.
(110) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) was against any change  in the present system of contributions, on the  grounds that 1t would lead to complications and  delay in payments and might also bring about changes  in the agreement signed with Mexico.
(111) Mr. ELVIN iDirector, Department of Educa-  tion) agreed that such a policy would involve many  complications both for the students and for the  Member States concerned.
(112) The paragraphs on international fundamental  education centres were adopted.
2. Aid to national fundamental education centres  (Education, paragraphs 305-7)
(113) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa-  tion) said that the Secretariat was strongly in  favour of giving direct assistance to promote the  creation and upkeep of these centres, in view of  the difficulty of starting any new international ones,
3. Scholarships in fundamental education (Exchange  of Persons, paragraphs 32, 53, 55, 57, 58, 60)
(114) Mr. W. CARTER (Head, Exchange of Persons  Service) explained that the purpose of the fellowships  was to give the opportunity to highly qualified expers  in Member States to make comparative observations.
(115) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executiv:  Board), at the request of the Chairman, said a fey  words on his recent visit to Patzcuaro. What had  impressed him most was the spirit of the students.  There was one disturbing factor: groups of students,  full of enthusiasm at the end of a course, were  dispersed upon their return home. That was a  regrettable waste of all the resources that had  been spent on their training. He suggested that a  meeting of Latin American Ministers of Education  should be called at Patzcuaro to find a solution to  that question. He also stated that the pcsters  produced at the Ceutre could be improved.  The meeting rose at 12.50 p.m.