V1-27 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  TWENTY . SEVENTH MEETING
23 November 1954 at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman: Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Australia)  CONSIDERATION OF REPORT OF THE EXPERT COMMITTEE  ON INTERNATIONAL UNDERSTANDING AND CO-OPERATION  (document 8C/DIiV/80)
(1) Mr. CABOUAT (Rapporteur) asked the Commit-  tee to release him from his duties as rapporteur.  When he had agreed to assume those duties he had  thought that the meetings of the Advisory Committee  on Programme and Budget would be about over when  the General Conference opened. Contrary to expect-  ations, however, the Committee still had to consider  the important question of priorities, referred to it  by the Programme Commission, He could not  combine his functions as rapporteur with those he  was called upon to exercise for his delegation.
(2) After some discussion, it was decided that the  French delegation would supply a new rapporteur  for the Committee. Mr. Cabouat was accordingly  replaced by Mr. Sedes,
(3) Mr. DUERING (Vice-Chairman of the Expert  Committee on Education for Irternational Under-  standing and Co-operation) introduced the report  prepared by that Committee (document 8C/DIV/80).
(4) The document, he explained, began with a  history of the Committee, which had been invited to  give its views on the draft programme for 1955-56,  as it related to education for international under-  standing and co-operation, On page 2 an index of  the contents of the document was given, Mr.  Duering drew attention to the first point dealt with,  terminology. The Committee had not been satisfied  with the expression education for living in a world  community" which gave the impression of rosy  dreams, and preferred the more modest title:  "2ducation for international understanding and  co-operation”,
(5) The first chapter of the report dealt with  general principles. It was an attempt to formulate  precise criteria for particular fields of action,  which it hoped the present Committee could now  examine and recommend, The criteria, Mr.  Duering said, were no more than a selection.  {6) Chapter Il contained detailed recommendations  on projects related to international understanding,  including some budgetary recommendations.  Chapter III dealt with future programmes.  Mr. Duering drew attention to Section A of that  Chapter, on Administration, which the experts had  considered to be particularly important. Two ways  had been proposed of dealing with the lack of co-  ordination that had been found in the Secretariat in  that field: a panel of experts from outside the  Organization, or a co-ordinating committee within  it. The speaker concluded with a brief description  of the Annexes.
(7) At the suggestion of the delegate of Canada,  the meeting was adjourned for twenty minutes, to  allow for study and informal discussion of the  document.
(8) The CHAIRMAN then thanked the Committee  of Experts for their excellent and rapidly produced  report, and opened the discussion on 8C/DIV/80).
(9) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) said that the introduction  and first chapter had taken as much as two years’  thinking over, and it would be difficult to analyse  it in detail. He proposed that the Committee pass  immediately to the consideration of Chapters Il and  III, as the recommendations contained in them  could be compared to those already put forward by  the Advisory Committee and necessary adjustments  made at once,
(10) The CHAIRMAN thought that the Programme  Commission expected a general recommendation  from the Advisory Committee on the whole report.
(11) Mr. FRANCOIS (France)said that in his  opinion the Committee would be acting irresponsibly  if it attempted to pass a final judgment on the work  of the Committee of Experts, which had beer sitting  for two years and had been meeting for several  days past in order to draw up its final report. He  recalled that members of the Advisory Committee  had had approximately twenty minutes in which to  read this final report.
(12) He thought therefore that the Committee's  rôle should be more restricted. It should be  confined to considering whether, in the light of its  present discussions, the Committee ought to  forward to the Programme Commission new  recommendations, different from those contained  in its report on the programme and budget.
(13) That view was shared by the Canadian  delegate.
(14) The delegate of the German Federal Republic  supported the Israeli delegate's proposal, which  was then adopted without further discussion.    - 816 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDG"T VI-27  CHAPTER H: EDUCATION  Paragraphs 55-62
(15) The Advisory Committee had previously  recommended that the Director-General should be  asked to submit a report to the next session  containing A detailed study of the work done by the  Unesco Institutes in Germany.
(16) Mr, ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  pointed out that sub-paragraph (a) involved a decision  on whether the word international should be inter-  vreted here as extending to the whole world or as  meaning increasingly European. With sub-paragraphs  (b) and (c} the Director-General could agree in  principle.
(17) Mr, DUERING (Vice-Chairman of the Expert  Committee) said that the criterion his Committee  had had in mind was that which was used for Unesco  subventions, namely, that the institute should be  "truly international in character". It was better  not to be too rigid over the interpretation of the  word international.
(18) Mr, SHAHANE (India) said that an institute of  that character could not be international in the sense  in which the word was generally used in international  organizations, That applied to both sub-paragraphs  {a) and (b). It was not easy to make the staff fully  international. He suggested to the Committee to  recommend bringing it to the notice of the Director  of the Institute that it was desirable to pay more  attention to making the institute really significant in  non-Western parts of the world. Sub-paragraph (c)  probably had that point in view.
(19) Mr. FREY (German Federal Republic) referred  to his comments in that direction made at the time  when the institutes were being discussed by the  Advisory Committee. He had been disappointed to  find that the emphasis he had wished for was lacking  in the report of the Advisory Committee. He  supported the Indian delegate's remarks,  {20) Mr, PANNETON (Canada) agreed with the  delegate of India, He considered also that the  comment on the institutes in the report of the  Advisory Committee {document 8C/BUD/1) covered  the proposed recommendation,
(21) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) thought that, as soon  as an institute like those of Unesco in Germany  showed itself to be European, it could be regarded  as international. He recalled the view, often put  forward by the French delegation, that even those  West European countries which were normally  considered the most advanced could with advantage  refresh their knowledge of the principles and  methods of education and international co-operation.
(22) Mr. AL-KOUSSI (Egypt) said that in actual  fact the attitude of the Advisory Committee, which  had expressed doubt of the value of the work carried  out by the institute, was the same as that of the  Expert Committee, although it might be differently  - 817 -     expressed, He thought the proposal should be  reconsidered in order to put the point more clearly,  and supported the proposal of the Indian delegate.
(23) Mr, SHAHANE (India) explained that his  delegation was satisfied by the international  character of the institute, which was needed in the  area where it had been placad. He suggested that  a mere indication should be given to its Director  that his responsibilities extended beyond a  particular area.
(24) Mr. LEE (United States of America) said that  the Committee should be conservative about the  details with which it would burden the Programme  Commission. He moved that no change be made  to the Advisory Committee's report on that point.
(25) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) said that, in  considering the report of the Committee of Experts,  the Advisory Committee should take note of what,  in the report, agreed with its previous conclusions,  and should not hesitate to pass judgment on what  did not.
(26) The CHAIRMAN, summing up, said that there  were two proposals before the Committee. If the  first,made by the delegate of the German Federal  Republic, to include the comments of the Expert  Committee in the Advisory Committee's new report,  were adopted, the propo. 1 by the United States of  America that the report should stand as it was  would automatically fall.
(27) The proposal of the German delegate was then  put to the vote and carried by 7 in favour 3 against  and 2 abstentions.
(28) The Chairman asked the Rapporteur to  formulate the addition in his report.  Paragraphs 176-178:
(29) No comments,  Paragraphs 179-185:
(30) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) asked for  the comments of the Director-General on the  necessity for holding two conferences, which was  questioned by the Expert Committee,
(31) The meeting, the CHAIRMAN said, had  rejected a proposal to alter that item in the draft  programme,
(32) Mr. DUERING (Vice-Chairman of the Expert  Committee) gave the reason for the Expert  Committee's recommendation: his country had a  good deal of experience of work on textbooks. It  was very slow. The purpose of the remark was to  slow down the activities under that heading.
(33) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa-  tion) pointed out that the difficulty in discussing the  question earlier had been over which of the two  conferences would be rejected.   VI-27 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET
(34) Mr. DUERING (Vice-Chairman of the Expert  Committee) replied that the Committee had consi-  dered it would be premature to hold the conference  in the Far East.
(35) Mr. LEE (United States of America) proposed  that the Advisory Committee heed the judgment of  the experts and slow down the work on the project  by eliminating one of the conferences, without  specifying which.
(36) Supported by the delegate of the United  Kingdom.
(37) Mr. SHAHANE (india) also supported the  proposal, adding his appreciation of the work done  in East and Central Africa by the companies which  had created textbooks in the African language and  had tried to spread knowledge of other territories  outside the British Empire.
(38) Mr, ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  remarked that the Secretariat would certainly  propose dropping the Asian conference, if either.
(39) The proposal formulated by the delegate of the  United States of America was put to the vote and  adopted by 12 in favour, none against and 1 abstention,  Paragraphs 186-192 (No previous comment by the  Advisory Committee)
(40) Mr, SOMMERFELT (Norway) proposed that  the advice of the Expert Committee should be  followed, and that paragraph 189 be deleted,
(41) Mr, ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  explained that since the fifth session of the General  Conference, Unesco had had an unfulfilled obligation  to encourage teaching about the United Nations and  Human Rights in universities as well as in schools.  An effort had been made to do that here. The Expert  Committee's objection was that the sum proposed  was too small, but it was felt that sometimes a  pilot course of lectures that caught the interest of a  university might have a considerably wider influence  eventually.
(42) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) supported the  proposal by the delegate of Norway that the project  be abandoned but without comment on the destination  of the amount to be left unused.
(43) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) thought that, in the  course of the detailed study of the budget, it would  be possible to work out the amounts which might be  devoted to the project, which he considered  particularly worth while, What section of the  population counted for more in Unesco's work than  the younger generation? It was between the ages of
18 and 23 that people realized what they wished to  devote their lives to and took their most important  decisions, As the Director of the Education Depart-  ment had said, Unesco had over a period of years  accumulated unfulfilled obligations which constituted  a virtual contract in respect of university teaching,  and a pilot course of lectures sometimes yielded    - 818 -  remarkable results, Unesco should take the  initiative and do pioneer work, for otherwise no  other quarter would undertake to show the way.
(44) The proposal made by the delegate of Norway  and seconded by the delegate of the United  Kingdom was put to the vote. There were 4 votes  in favour, 4 against and 4 abstentions. The  Chairman therefore cast his vote, which was that  there should be no change in the Committee's  previous report,  Paragraphs 193-6
(45) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  informed the meeting that the scheme had developed  considerably since the draft had been prepared. If  there were more funds, there would be a case for  recommending the expansion of an existing activity.
(46) It was agreed to make no change in the report  of the Advisory Committee.  Paragraphs 214-6
(47) It was agreed to refer the comments of the  Expert Committee to the Director-General, as  there was no difficulty in their acceptance.  Paragraphs 323-331, 337 and 338, 340-350, 372-378,
379 and 380 were adopted without comments,
(48) It was suggested at this stage that examination  be made of the comments of the Expert Comrnittee  on page 19 on the establishment of an international  school in Paris.
(49) The CHAIRMAN drew attention to document
8C/PRG/1, where the proposal to establish an  international school in Paris was explained in  detail by Mr. Elvin.
(50) Page 3 of the document, he pointed out,  contained the comments of experts whose opinions  had been collected. It was thought possible that  the school might be made self-supporting, if two  or three of the relevant countries made the services  of teachers available for a certain period, The  voting on that question by the Executive Board had  been complicated. The motion to send the proposal  forward ta the Conference with a favourable  comment had been defeated. On sendipg it forward  with an unfavourable comment, the voting had been  equal,
(51) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) proposed the adoption  of the view expressed on the question by the Expert  Committee,
(52) Mr. SHAHANE (India) seconded the proposal.  Many civil servants were content to place their  children in schools that were not specially created  for them, and the delegate of India saw no necessity  for the project.
(53) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  said that many Unesco parents would be glad of the  opportunity of sending their children to a school   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VI-27  that was free of nationalist and sectarian prejudices.  Neither French nor American parents (the United  States of America had a school of their own) would  be much concerned, and England was not too far  away, but difficulties existed for other language  groups. A realistic estimate, however, of the  degree to which parents could feel the need of such  a school would be difficult to give.
(54) Mr. PANNETON (Canada) was surprised at the  proposal to set up an international school in Paris,  It was not for Unesco to establish a school, even  if such a school were essential to international civil  servants. In what language would the pupils be  taught? Might not the problem equally well arise  in Montevideo, Brussels or, for that matter,  Ottawa? After that the Organization could go on to  found an international hospital, and so forth; it  would be difficultto set a limit, once the principle  had been agreed to, The Canadian delegate moved  that the project be abandoned.
(55) Mr. AVIDOR (israel) repeated his proposal  that the Advisory Committee adopt the recommend-  ation made by the Expert Committee as it stood.
(56) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) thought that the only  way of combating the prejudices Mr. Elvin had  mentioned was by arranging for the children of  foreigners to live a school life together with those  of nationals, He therefore considered that the view  expressed by the experts should be accepted  unchanged.
(57) The proposal of the Israeli delegate was  adopted by 11 votes, with one abstention.  NATURAL SCIENCES  Paragraph 34
(58) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) pointed out that the announcement of the  International Geophysical Year had aroused consi-  derable interest throughout the world. The best  way for science to contribute to international co-  operation was by organizing work in which scientists  from all over the world could share.
(59) He recalled that, under existing projects,  Unesco was to provide a permanent secretariat for  the Geophysical Year (document 8C/5, Natural  Sciences, paragraphs 34-36). A subvention of  $8,000 was planned for 1955 and of $12, 000 for
1956, Those amounts were insufficient. The Inter-  national Council of Scientific Unions had asked for  an extra $15,000, to be spread over the two years,  while the Expert Committee had recommended a
20% increase in the subventions contemplated.  Mr. Auger considered that it would be well to  recommend an increase in the present estimates,  even if the Advisory Committee did not feel able to  sanction the maximum requested.
(60) The CHAIRMAN reminded the Committee that  it was in a position to make any recommendation it  wished, although, beyond attaching priority to  - 819 -     specific iteins, no actual budgetary recommend-  ations had been made.
(61) Mr. DUERING (Vice-Chairman of the Expert  Committee), in reply to a question by the delegate  of Israel, explained that the figure 20% was an  arbitrary one and that the intention of the Expert  Committee, in mentioning it, had been merely to  express its desire that the subventions should be  increased.
(62) Mr. LEE (United States of America} moved  that the Committee make no change in its decision  but merely draw the attention of the Programme  Commission to the fact that a figure had been  mentioned in the Expert Committee's report.
(63) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom), on the  understanding that 20% was rot a binding figure,  seconded the proposal, which was adopted.  Paragraphs 107 and 108 and 112
(64) No comments.  Paragraphs 116 and 117
(65) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) said that in his view the Expert Commit-  tee's comment on Travelling Science Exhibitions  was very apposite. Such exhibitions were a very  good way of bringing home to the public the inter-  national character of modern science, for today no  important discovery could be regarded as national;  it represented the sum total of research carried  out in different countries.
(66) It was decided, without discussion, that the  recommendation be referred to the Director-  General as a directive on wh.ch to base subsequent  projects.  Paragraph 119
(67) Mr, AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) reminded the Committee that it had  accepted this project, The Expert Committee had  further recommended that a conference be shortly  arranged in Asia to spread a public understanding  of science. The recommendation could be referred  to the Director-General as a directive to be used  in drawing up the proposed programme and budget  for 1957-58.
(68) Mr. DUERING (Vice-Chairman of the Expert  Committee) pointed out that the conference  mentioned in paragraphs 132-4 had been discussed  at the same time as that proposed 1n paragraph 119  of the draft programme and budget. The Expert  Committee had thought it possible that the Confer-  ence on the Public Understanding of Science might  take place in Asia and the one on Science Teaching  in Latin America. But that was a question for the  Programme Commission to settle.
(69) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) thought that  the activity should be linked with that of other   VIi-27  Specialized Agencies concerned with bringing the  results of science into the lives of millions of people.  The Expert Committee had recommended co-ordina-  tion between the various departments of the  Secretariat. Should a reference to that aspect of  co-ordination be made in the report?
(70) In reply to Mr. Cowell, Mr. AUGER (Director,  Department of Natural Sciences) stated that the non-  governmental organizations and Specialized Agencies  relied on Unesco to collaborate with them in spread-  ing scientific knowledge connected with their own  particular fields of intercst, Unesco worked in  permanent collaboration with WHO and FAO.
(71) The Committee decided, without discussion, to  refer the recommendation co the Director-General  as it stood.  SOCIAL SCIENCES  Paragraphs 148-160
(72) The Committee recommended assigning the  whole of this project to Category 2, with the exception  of paragraphs 152-156, for which Category 3 was  recommended.
(73) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) suggested that the  Advisory Committee maintain the view it had already  expressed with regard to the Study of factors which  hinder and which encourage international understanding.
(74) It was decided accordingly, without discussion.  Paragraphs 174-180
(75) This proposal had been recommended for  Category 1 by the Advisory Committee and, relative  to it, draft resolution No. 8 was approved with a  budget of $19,192,
(76) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) proposed that,  as the two committees had concurred without con-  sulting each other, no change should be made in the  Advisory Committee's report,
(77) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) supported that  proposal, which was adopted.  CULTURAL ACTIVITIES  Paragraphs 153-160
(78) The Expert Committee commented favourably  on these paragraphs, The Advisory Committee, on  the other hand, with the exception of Section D,  paragraphs 165-171, had classed these activities in  Category 3.
(79) Mr. SEDES (Rapporteur) was of  opinion that ‘Le Committee should use the  expression "contemp.rary cultures, instead  of "contemporary cuituré; the latter term  he failed to understand.  - 820 -     ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDOET
(80) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) confessed that this was a branch  of his Department's activity which he had been sorry  to see classed in a lower category. He stressed  the ever important rôle of the classical humanities,  from whatever country they stemmed,
(81) He had been somewhat surprised at the  Committee's decision, and urged that the subject  be given at least the same priority as the rest of  the project. Unesco's decisions in the matter had  a great effect in cultural congresses which could  give Unesco voluntary assistance, and it was  important not to discourage potential co-operation  of that kind,
(82) Mr, DUERING (Vice-Chairman of the Expert  Committee) shared the views of Mr, Thomas, The  project as it had stood at first was a more equitable  distribution of the sum available for activities  referring to different parts of the world,
(83) Mr, AVIDOR (Israel) pointed out that the  discussion was only on Sections A and B, since D  had been recommended by both committees and C  left out by both,
(84) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) moved that  the Advisory Committee should maintain its  attitude in respect of Sections A and B.
(85) The proposal was supported by the delegate of  the United States of America, and adopted by 6 in  favour, 4 against and no abstentions,
287-300, 304-311, 302 and 303, 319-325, 327-336  and 346-350 were referred to the Director-General  without comments.  Paragraphs 376-392
(87) The Advisory Committee had recommended  adoption of the paragraph on Index Translationum  in the corrigendum to document 8C/5 and also the  adoption of draft resolution DR/26 on the same  subject. That met with the Expert Committee's  recommendation, Other remarks made by that  Committee were of a general character and could  be referred to the Director-General for his  guidance.
(88) Mr, SOMMERFELT (Ncrway) was sceptical  of the need for including not too widely spoker  European languages. The task was a vast one,  and ought to be limited.
(89) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) stated that the remark made at  point 3 referred in particular to paragraph 390  (document 8C/5, Chapter on Cultural Activities).  It was hoped moreover that the establishment of an  International Federation of Translators would have  the effect of improving the quality of translations.
(80) Mr. PANNETON (Canada) favoured the  principle of economy. In his view, Member States’  money could often be better employed otherwise   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON  than in issuing publications. That did rot however  apply to the Index Translationum, wiiich was of  undoubted value.
(81) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) supported the proposal  of the Norwegian delegate that the Advisory Coramit-  tee shouis draw attention, in its report fo the Pro-  gramme Commission, to the fact that it doubted the  value of issuing translations in other European  languages,
(92) It was decided accordingly by 9 votes, with 3  abstentions.
(93) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) added that he would have  liked the proposal in sub-paragraph 3 of the Expert  Committee's comments on paragraphs 376-392  recommended, with the suppression of the last  words by raising the status of translators'',
(94) The Advisory Committee's report was,  however, left as it stood.  MASS COMMUNICATION  Paragraphs 25-28
(95) The recommendation of the Advisory Commit-  tee on this project (that the appropriation be reduced  to $10, 000 for the two years, and that the entire  project be placed in Category 3) was in direct  contradiction to that of the Expert Committee.
(96) Mr. DUERING (Vice-Chairman of the Expert  Committee) explained that the Expert Committee had  been divided but, on the whole, favourable.
(97) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) was sympathetic  to the proposal but proposed that no change be made  in the report of the Advisory Committee.
(98) Agreed.  Paragraphs 37-76
(99) There was some disagreement on these activities  between the two committees. At the suggestion of    PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VI-27  the delegate of the United States of America, the  Advisory Committee made no change in its previous  report on the subject.  Paragraphs 137-159
(109) The Advisory Committee had felt there was  some duplication here with the Activities carried out  by Member States at a national level, and had  accordingly voted a lower priority to the project  contained in paragraphs 143 and 144, as well as 154.  The Expert Committee had recommended those  activities.
(101) Mr, DESJARDINS (Department of Mass  Communication) drew attention tc a new document
(8C/5 Corr.3), which gave complementary inform-  ation on those activities,
(102) The fact was noted and the project  referred to the Programme and Budget  Commission,  Paragraphs 205-221
(103) The Advisory Committee's comment on this  subject came under the general remarks made on  voluntary international assistance, It had expressed  the hope that emphasis would be laid on the educa-  tional aspects of project 5. 7.
(104) Mr. ZUCKERMAN (Department of Mass  Communication) explained that the difficulties over  supplies had all been settled. The recommendation  of the Expert Committee would entail the loss of  $40,000 in the first year and $50,000 a year after  that,
(105) It was agreed to draw the attention of the  Programme and Budget Commission to the whole  question.  Paragraphs 219 and 220
(106) No comment,  The meeting rose at 7,5 p.m.  - 821 -