ADMINISTRATIVE  competent to take the necessary action for 1956, The  Member States consulted had raised no objections,  except that the Australian Government had commented  on the premises made available to the organizations.  Mr. Maheu recalled that he had already stated at the  previous meeting that, apart from two other orgamza-  tions, those mentioned were the only ones housed in  Unesco's headquarters, It had been decided that the  whole question should be reconsidered by the Executive  Board, since the Australian delegate had not insisted  that it be discussed by the Commission.
(137) The Executive Board had also approved a draft  formal agreement to be concluded with the Interna-  tional Social Science Council, which was accordingly  submitted to the General Conference for ratification.
(138) The CHAIRMAN drew attention to the fact that,  in accordance with Section A, paragraph 4 of docu-  ment 8C/ADM/23, the eight forrial agreements at  present in force wer: submitted «0 the General  Conference for review and renewal until 31 December
(139) Mr. POHL (Union of South Africa) moved that  the Commission recommend the renewal of the  agreements.
(140) The proposal was seconded by the United  Kingdom delegate,    COMMISSION v-11
(141) Mr. MARDONES RESTAT (Chile) enquired  whether the conclusion of the agreements meant that  the non-governmental organizations in question would  receive increased or altered subventions,
(142) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) said  that it would not; the question had no bearing on that  of subventions.
(143) The Commission passed to the discussion of the  Draft Formal Agreement with the International Social  Science Council (8C/ADM/23 Add. 1).
(144) The CHAIRMAN asked for comments on the  ratification of the draft agreement.
(145) Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom) moved  that the Commission recommend the General Con-  fereuce to ratify the Draft Formal Agreement with  the International Sociui Science Council.
(146) The proposal was seconded by the delegate of  the Union of South Africa, supported by the delegates  of Haiti and Belgium and adopted.  The meeting rose at 7.20 p.m.  SEVENTEENTH MEETING
29 November 1954 at 10 am.  Chairman : Mr. BEEBY (New Zealand)  ITEM 9.5.6.1 OF REVISED AGENDA: MEDICAL BENFFITS  SCHEME (document 8C/ADM/ 1%)
(1) Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller), introducing  the report of the Director-General on the Unesco  Medical Benefits Fund, said that it had two main  proposals. The first (paragraph 4) was in connexion  with the contributions to be paid into the Medical  Benefits Fund by the Organization and by the staff  members. The second (paragraph 7) dealt with the  methods whereby contributions were calculated.
(2) Until 1953, the contributions paid in by the  Organization had been equal to those paid by the staff.  It had then been found that income wos not sufficient  to meet needs, and the Director-General thought that  the contributions by the staff should be increased,  those by the Organization remaining the same.
(3) The Director-General was now proposing to revert  to the old system, but with a new scale of contribu-  tions (paragraph 9). The new scale had five  contributory levels instead of three (see Annex II)  and took much more accurately into account    the real number of dependents enrolled in the fund.
(4) As regarded the second proposal, the calculation  of contributions, the practice hud hitherto been for  contributions paid by staff to bv: deducted from their  basic salaries, But it was the practice in all  Specialized Agencies to include certain specific  allowances paid to staff in the General Services Cate-  gory in the pensionable remuneration on the basis of  which contributions were paid. Accordingly, the  Director-General was asking for authorization to do  the same thing.
(5) The rest of the report was a detailed account of  the operation of the fund up to the end of 1953.
(63 Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon, seconded by Mr.  ARTHUR (United Kingdom), moved adoption of the  resolution in paragraph 9.
(7) Mr.KELLY(Australia), while in sympathy with the  resolution, asked why allowances were included inthe  amount on which contributions were calculated only in  the case of staff in the General Services Category.  - 595 -   v-17 ADMINISTRATIVE
(8) Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) said that, for  staff in the Professional categories, there were no  pensionable allowances and therefore the calculation  was made on basic salary,
(9) Miss LAISE (United States of America) said that,  when the matter was discussed in 1952, her deiega-  tion had expressed anxiety lest, with so high a level  of benefits, the fund might run into ditficulties. Those  fears had been borne out, as shown by the document  now before the Commission.
(10) The proposals made in the report would put the  fund on a sound financial basis, but at greater cost  both to the Organization and to individual members.
(11) It was important, she felt, that any scheme for  medical benefits should not vary from agency to  agency. No mention was made in the report of  negotiations with other agencies with a view to  evolving a common plan.
(12) In general, her delegation favoured the system  in force within the United Nations, i.e., a scheme  with a sliding scale for contributions by the Organiza  tion, so that the Organization would pay an amount  varying in inverse proportion 0 the salary of the  individual contributor.
(13) Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) gaia that the  Consultative Committee on Administrative Questions  had discussed the question of providing coverage tn  bridge the gap between a short illness and permarznt  invalidity. In Unesco, there were such provisions in  the Medical Benefits Scheme, members falling ill  being put on half pay, after exhaustion of sick eave,  for a period not exceeding eleven months in respect of  the same illness. That amply fulfilled the spirit of  the Pension Fund Regulations, which laid down that,  to qualify for a disability pension, a member had to  be ill for at least nine months.
(14) In the United Nations, and in FAO, the contribu-  tion by the Organization decreased as salaries grew  higher, but elsewhere the two contributions were the  same. Within the Consultative Committee, it had  been agreed to compare notes on the experience  acquired. In fact, FAO had recently expressed much  interest in the Unesco scheme. So Unesco had in the  past co-operated, and would continue to co-operate,  with the other organizations.
(15) The resolution in paragraph 8 of document
8C/ADM/15 was unanimously adopted,  ITEM 9.5.6.2 OF REVISED AGENDA: COMPENSATION FUND  FOR SERVICE-INCURRED RISKS (document 8C/ADM/ 16)
(16) Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) said that a  corrigendum would be 1ssued affecting the French  text of paragraph 4.
(17) At the seventh session of the General Conference,  the Director-General had been authorized to operate  a provisional common benefits plan and had been  instructed to submit final proposals for approval at  the eighth session,
(18) In 1953 and 1954, he himself had taken part in  discussions, within the Consultative Committee on  Administrative Questions, on how such a plan should  be financed. The actuary of the United Nations Joint    COMMISSION  Staff Pension Fund had submitted a report showing that  the cost of a common fund would far exceed the com-  mercial premiums then being paid by the Specialized  Agencies. In addition, the creation of such a tund  would have encountered administrative difficulties .For  that reason all representatives of the Specialized  Agencies had agreed that their particular part of the  scheme should operate independently. The independent  Unesco scheme would continue to operate in 1955 and
1956, although continuous contact would be maintained  with the other agenc:es.
(19) The proposal made in Annex I did not call on  Member States for further contributions. The poin*  was that the small annual budget appropriation re-  quested to meet risks of that type would be totally  inadequate in the event of a disaster.
(20) It was therefore proposed that a special Staff  Compensation Fund should be set up, into which the  unused portion of the $8,000 provided in 1953 should  be paid, as also any amounts similarly left over in  future years. Unused balances would thus be carried  forward from year to year. Any compensation paid  by third parties in the case of injury or death of a  staff member would also be paid in,
(21) In document 8C/ADM/16 (Annex I) it was sug-  gested that the fund might be built up until it amounted  to some $15,000 - $20,000, and that then, for future  years, the sum requested would be only such amount  as had been actually spent in the immediately  preceding two years. In fact, that figure would  probably be too low.
(22) He would therefore submit the following  resolution:  "The General Conference:  Resolves:
1. That a Staff Compensation Fund, for service-  incurred death ard disability, shall be established,  into which shall be paid: (a) sums appropriated for  this purpose in the budget; (b) the proceeds of any  commercial insurance effected by the Director-  General; (c) compensation payable by any third party  (up to the maximum payable under the rules of the  Compensation Plan),
2. This Fund shall be carried forward from one  financial period to another up to a maximum of  $50,000. Any balance above this sum at the end of a  financial period shall be credited to the General Fund.
3. This Fund shall be used to pay for compensation  awarded under the rules of the Staff Compensation Plan.
(23) In two years time more experience would have  been gained, and a report could then be submitted at  the ninth session".
(24) Mr. MENDIS (Ceylon), seconded by Mr.AMMOUN  (Lebanon), moved adoption of the resolution.
(25) Mr. KELLY (Australia) congratulated the  Director-General on producing a report which was  obviously the frui. of much careful study. But while  riot lacking in sympathy for the staff, he was not  convinced of the advantages of the proposal made.
(26) What would be the effect of the creation of such  a fund on the amounts annually paid to Lloyd's in the  form of premiums?
(27) There would be no difficulty, he felt, in securing  money from the General Conference to meet any  emergency that might arise.  - 596 -   ADMINISTRATIVE
(28) At a time when the plans made by other agencies  were under review, it might not be desirable to adopt  any final scheme. While not anxious to press his  point, he wondered whether the Director-General  could not at least amend his motion to the effect that  the matter be reviewed at the ninth session.
(29) Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) emphasized  that the proposal was in no way designed to secure  large appropriations to cover risks insured against by  the United Nations and by all the Specialized Agencies.  it was merely intended to ensure that the money left  over from a "good" year, such as 1953 (when nearly  $8,000 were left unexpended) was used to create a  fund which could cope with a sudden grave emergency.  Otherwise the amounts left over in that way would  revert to Member States in the form of surpluses.
(30) The proposal had been made precisely to avoid  having to appeal to the General Conference in the way  suggested by the delegation of Australia.
(31) That very year Unesco was faced with the  problem of providing compensation for the accidental  death of a staff member. To buy an annuity for his  widow would be exceedingly expensive ($50,000), and  to meet the cost a supplementary budget estimate  would be required. With a fund amounting to some  $20,000, another $30,000 could be paid in from the  proceeds of commercial insurance with Lloyd's, and  no doubt the airline company would be called upon to  pay a substantial sum, with the result that an annuity  could be easily purchased.
(32) The annual appropriation mentioned in the pro-  posal was hardly more than a token figure. If another  two years had to elapse before a final decision could  be taken, quite different figures would have to be  submitted.
(33) Mr. POHL (Union of South Africa) said that the  aims of the proposal were laudable enough, but had  the other Specialized Agencies been consulted? Was  the Director-General satisfied that he had found the  best way of financing such a fund?
(34) Referring to the remarks made by the Australian  and South African delegates, Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon  said he was not in favour of leaving to the General  Conference the task of determining at each session  the amount of appropriations that should be used for  compensation. That would entail subordinating  payment of indemnities - which should be regarded as  obligations - to the decisions of the General Confer-  ence, If any accident occurred immediately after a  session of the General Conference, the payment of  compensation could be delayed for nearly two years.
(35) Mr. Ammoun would therefore be prepared to  support the Director-General's proposal, which  appeared to ensure i 1mediate and automatic payment  of such compens ation.
(36) Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) explained  that joint studies had in fact been made by the United  Nations and the Specialized Agencies, and it had been  agreed that it would be best for each organization to  work out for itself the most satisfactory way of  financing its scheme. Other agencies had shown a  keen interest in the Unesco idea of having a fund  partly constituted by appropriations. Unesco would    COMMISSION V-17  of course keep in touch with what was being done  elsewhere.
(37) The proposal was not designed to do more than  provide provisional machinery.
(38) Miss LAISE (United States of America) said that  the Comptroller had justified the proposal to have a  large fund on the grounds that it would be expensive  to buy annuities. But was that the best way of meet-  ing such obligations as the Organization might have in  the circumstances? In the regulations for the  compensation plan there were definite rules governing  the grant of annuities.
(39) Mr. HARPER-S3MITH (Comptroller) said that in  the particular case he had alluded to no decision had  yet been taken, Every case had to be judged on its  merits.
(40) It was agreed to add a final clause to the resolu-  tion to meet the point raised by the delegate of  Australia;  "The Director-General is requested to present a  report on the operation of the Fund for review at the  ninth session",
(41) Thus amended, the resolution was unanimously  adopted.  ITEMS 9.5.7 AND 9.5.83 OF REVISED AGENDA: ANNUAL  REPORT OF THE PENSION BOARD TOGETHER WITH  REVISED REGULATIONS AND RULES OF THE PENSION  FUND AND ELECTION OF REPRESENTATIVES OF MEMBER  STATES TO THE UNITED NATIONS JOINT STAFF PENSION  FUND (documents 8C/ADM/17 and 8C/ADM/ 17 Corr. 1)
(42) The CHAIRMAN observed that the Committee  was merely called upon to take note of the documents  attached to document 8C/ADM/17 (Annual Report of  the United Nations Joint Staff Pension Board), and of  the amendments to the Regulations and Administrative  Rules of the Pension Fund, which were attached to  document 8C/ADM/27 (Unesco Staff Rules),
(43) Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) said that  document 8C/ADM/17 dealt with the appointment of  representatives of Member States to the Unesco Staff  Pension Committee. At the seventh session, the  three members and the three alternates named in  paragraph 2 had been appointed. Their term ofoffice  expired at the end of the eighth session. Incidentally,  three of them had been obliged to resign in the course  of 1953.
(44) The Director-General was suggesting that mem-  bers be nominated from among the permanent delega-  tions in Paris, and that they hold office until the end  of the ninth session.
(45) The proposal had been made in order to facilitate  attendance at meetings of the Pension Committee.
(46) Article XXXV of the regulations for the United  Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund laid down that the  Joint Staff Pension Board should submit an annual re-  port on the operation of those regulations to the United  Nations General Assembly and to the Member orga-  nizations. The Joint Staff Pension Board was also  called upon to draw up the administrative rules  - 597 -   v-17 ADMINISTRATIVE  necessary for the carrying out of those regulations  and to report thereon to the competent authority of  each Member organization.
(47) That annual report, and the latest set of adminis-  trative rules, were accordingly annexed to document
8C/ADM/17. No action was required by the General  Conference.
(48) Part III of document 8C/ADM/17 dealt with re-  cognition by Unesco of the competence of the United  Nations Administrative Tribunal in respect of pension  matters - a question discussed separately in  document 8C/ADM/18.
(49) Mr. BENDER (Executive Board) said that the  Executive Board had always taken a warm interest in  medical benefits, staff compensation, and the Unesco  stafi pension scheme. He would be interested to  know what sort of benefits would accrue to individual  members under the regulations for the Pension Fund.
(50) Mr. DE LOS SANTCS (Philippines) warmly  commended the Director-General's proposals for  appointment of members of the Pension Committee,  and moved adoption thereof.
(51) Miss LAISE (United States of America) seconded  the motion, but asked that, before a final election took  place, an enquiry be made among delegations in order  to ascertain who was likely to come forward as a  candidate. Then a list of names should be distributed,  and time should be allowed for the Conference to  consider them at leisure. She attached great impor-  tance to having persons of first-class abilities to  represent their governments on the Pension  Committee.
(52) Mr. DE LCS SANTOS (Philippines) could accept  an amendment to his motion on the lines suggested by  the delegate of the United States of America. 7
(53) The CHAIRMAN suggested that delegations in-  terested in submitting names should get into touch  with him, and that final consideration of document
8C/ADM/17 should be deferred.
(54) It was so decided.
(55) Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) said that the  Pension Fund Regulations provided for benefits on the  withdrawal of a staff member before the age of sixty,  on retirement at sixty, and in the case of permanent  disability and death.
(56) The benefits were, roughly speaking, as follows:  If a member withdrew before he had completed five  years' service, he received his own contribution plus  compound interest thereon at iwo and a half per cent
(57) If he left after more than five years' service,  he received the actuarial equivalent of the pension he  would have received had he retired at 60.
(58) If he retired at 60, he received one-sixtieth of  the final average remuneration over the past ten  years for every year he had spent in Unesco. Thus,  if he had spent ten years in the Organization, he  would get one-sixth of the final average remuneration,  if twenty years, one-third.
(59) On his death, his widow would as a rule be enti-  tled to one-half the disability benefit he would have  - 598 -     COMMISSION  received (three-tentns of the salary at the time of  death). She would thus get three-twentieths of that  salary.  ITEM 9.5.1 OF REVISED AGENDA : PERSONNEL  RECRUITMENT STANDARDS AND METHODS  (document 8C/ADM/11)
(60) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that the General  Conference had often expressed the wish that the geo-  graphical distribution of staff should be widened to the  greatest possible extent consistent with the high  standards of competence laid down in the Constitution,
(61) He himself considered that, if Unesco was to  become really effective, a broader geographical dis-  tribution of staff was required than that so far attained,  It was important that there should be, within the  Secretariat, persons representing different cultures,  equipped with a thorough knowledge of the problems  peculiar to those parts of the world from which they  came.
(62) It was always easy to give lip-service to the  ideal of broad geographical distribution.
(63) He had felt under an obligation to suggest definite  methods whereby that ideal, about which so much had  been said in the past, might be attained. Hence the  proposed new paragraph 4.6,on page 8,
(64) Under the existing system, staff members from  the under-represented areas were continually being  offered important posts in their home countries, so  that staff had to be recruited more and more from the  under-represented areas in order to prevent the  situation from getting worse.
(65) The other important point he had to make was the  following, According to paragraph 4.5.1 of the Staff  Regulations, members of the staff were appointed  either for an indeterminate period or in the light of  programme requirements.
(66) How were the words "in the light of programme  requirements" to be interpreted?
(67) He understood them to mean that he was obliged  to award permanent contracts to persons in certain  categories unless, in the light of programme  requirements, he was justified in not so doing. In  considering programme requirements, was he expect  ed to bear in mind the current programme, or to take  a longer view? The words "in the light oi programme  requirements" tied his hands, and he was strongly in  favour of their deletion.
(68) As regarded permanent appointments, the best  solution, he felt, was to aim at a target figure, as  set forth in paragraph 19 of the document, The  percentages he had suggested there, were, he  considered, reasonable.
(69) Mr. BENDER (Executive Board) said that the  Board had often discussed the question of staff and  contracts, and in July had adopted a resolution calling  the attention of the Conference to the need for clear  guidance as to indeterminate contracts and  improvement of geographical distribution,
(70) It had also called on the Conference to recom-  mend Member States to second national civil  servants to Unesco for limited periods, and to  safeguard the rights of such persons during their  employment with Unesco.   ADMINISTRATIVE
(71) The CHAIRMAN said that the best course would  be for the Commission to have a gereral discussion on  the principles involved, before considering the Staff  Regulations in detail.
(72) Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) hoped that the Director-  General would furnish some details concerning  paragraph 4.5.1 of the Staff Regulations, which dealt  with the renewal of contracts for fixed periods  (document 8C/ADM/11, page 8).
(73) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that, under the  existing paragraph 4.5.1 of the Staff Regulations, he  was under an obligation to renew a contract for an  indeterminate period (provided the person satisfied  all the requirements), unless he could invoke  programme needs as a reason for not doing so.
(74) Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) thanked the Director-  General for his explanations. He considered,  however, that the Director-General's interpretation  of paragraph 4.5.1 was not the only possible one. In  any case, he asked to be given information on the way  in which particular problems arising from the renewal  of contracts had been solved in the past and on previous  decisions that might be taken as precedents.
(75) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that it was not in  the interests of Unesco that he should be faced with  the alternative of either letting a staff member go when  his contract expired or else giving that staff member  a permanent contract. Something intermediate was  required.
(16) Who could say what programme requirements  would be thirty years thence?
(17) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) wondered  whether the words "in the light of programme re-  quirements" were in fact so difficult to interpret, If  the words were transferred to the end of the senicnce  in paragraph 4.5.1, the position became clearer. The  paragraph could then be taken to mean that the  Director-General could either reappoint for an  indeterminate period or for some fixed period, and  that programme requirements would determine the  exact period of re-engagement - one, two, three,  four, or five years.
(18) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that that was  not his interpretation,
(79) There were certain items, such as fundamental  education, which had appeared in Unesco's program-  me for a iong time, and a staff member engaged in  that field should enjoy the maximum tenure. But  te ire was not the only factor; there was the question  of personal suitability too,
(80) His own view was that, except for a small num-  ber of highly specialized posts, the aim should be to  b..ild up à corps of people who could be used no  matter what changes might be made in the programine.  The aim should be to acquire the services of persons  capable of a certain flexibility. That was why he  preferred to set a percentage for the number of  permanent contracts in the organization, It was  better to proceed like that than to take each individual  post and to estimate the likeiihood of its occupier  being required by Unesco thirty years thence.    COMMISSION V-17
(81) Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) wondered who could be  authorized to decide what were "programme  requirements".
(82) Miss LAISE (United States of America) said that,  in the view of her delegation, there was a contradic-  tion between the proposal made in paragraph 19 (fixing  percentages to represent the proportion of permanent  contracts) and the proposed new paragraph 4.6 of the  Staff Regulations.
(83) She seriously questioned the desirability of both  those proposals, Although she recognized that it was  desirable to achieve stability, surely it was unwise to  set definite target figures at a time when the question  of remodelling the programme was under discussion  and when there must be continued efforts to improve  the quality and the geographical distributionofthe staff,
(84) She doubted whether the proposed paragraph 4.6  should be included in the Staff Regulations. Her  country was gravely under-represented in the staff of  Unesco, so she could not be accused of special plead-  ing in saying that the primary aim must be tu secure  the services of staff offering the highest standards of  efficiency and integrity, Paragraph 4.3.1, she felt,  was sufficient. Inclusion of the proposed 4.6 wouid  lay undue stress on the importance of a broad geo:  graphical distribution. It was important not to  sacrifice competent staff members merely because  they did not come from under-represented areas.
(85) She urderstood that a suggestion had been made  in the Executive Board for a sclution of the problem of  geographical distribution. If so, she would be glad  to know what it was.
(88) Referring to page 7 of document 8C/ADM/11, Mr.  SOLDATOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics) said  that his delegation was absolutely against eliminating  paragraph 4.2.1, which excluded from the Organiza-  tion persons compromised by their relations with  Fascism, Nazism or militarist aggression. To  eliminate that prohibition would be contrary to the  letter of the Constitution, since it would enable persons  guilty of barbarous acts or the destruction of valuable  literary works and other cultiral property to be  admitted to the Secretariat. Mr, Soldatov also  observed that the Executive Board, at its thirty-  eighth session, had declared that it did not recommend  eliminating the paragraph in question, and had  embodied its views in the resolution reproduced in  document 8CY ADM/ 14,  {87) Mr. Soldatov said he would reserve a number of  observations he had to make on other suggested  changes till later. However, he wished to emphasize  at that stage that be did not think it desirable to  extend the Director-General's existing pcwers with  regard to the recruiting of staff.
(88) Mr. BENDER (Executive Board), referring to  the statement made by the delegate of the United  States of America, said that another scheme had  indeed been put forward in the Executive Board, but  various views had been expressed and no full agree-  ment had beer reached. The minutes of the meetings  of the Board would provide fuller information.
(89) As regarded tlie point raised by the delegate of  the Soviet Union, he could confirm that the Board had  not recommended deletion of paragraph 4.2.1.  - 589 -   V-17 ADMINISTRATIVE
(90) Mr. MARTINEZ COBO (Ecuador) disagreed with  the delegation of the United States of America on the  question of equitable geog.'aphical distribution of  staff. The geographical criterion was a strictly fair  one; existing methods led to a most irregular position,  as was shown by figures: out of 385 staff members, a  bare 20 belonged to the Latin American ccuntries,  which formed one-third of the Member States of the  Organization. Yet there were countries who had 73  and 96 officials on the staff.
(91) Costa Rica, Cuba, El Salvador, Guatemala,  Honduras and the Dominican Republic, which between  them formed a highly cultured group, were not  represented on the Secretariat by a single member.
(92) The delegate cf Ecuador disagreed with the  Soviet delegate and supported the Director-General's  proposal for the suppression of the paragraph under  discussion (4.2.1). It was dangerous to allow the  Director-General a completely free hand in dismissing  officials under political pretexts. The danger lay  not in the admission of officials with certain political  tendencies, but in the possibility that those officials  might afterwards carry on a political activity from  their post.
(93) Mr. JUVIGNY (France) agreed with the  Lebanese delegate that, for a better interpretation of  paragraph 4.5.1., it would be well to rely on the way  in which the Appeals Board and the international  administrative tribunals had in the past settled  disputes arising from the renewal of contracts,
(94) Then, again, Mr. Juvigny wished to emphasize  that, without opposing the principle of geographical  distribution, 3 laid down in the United Nations  Charter and the Unesco Constitution, the principle  should not under any circumstances be applied as a  hard-and-fast rule. The aim of that principle was to  give nien of all countries the same chances of enter-  ing the international public service and to ensure that  the most diverse cultures were represented on the  Secretariat, It was an ideal to be upheld, but, if it  were put into practice too hastily, it might impair the  Organization's efficiency. If the principle of geo-  graphical distribution were applied too strictly, the  Organization would be obliged to part with people who  had served it well in the past and also acquired useful  experience, which newcomers would lack, at least  for a time. It would also constitute a threat to many  of the staff and adversely affect their work. It might  even lead to the resignation of the ablest among them.  Moreover, in practice it was hard to see what  criteria could be used to ensure a really fair geogra-  phical distribution. Would the total contributions  paid by the different Member States be taken into  account?
(95) Any provision intended to enforce a rigid and  impersonal application of the principle of geographi-  cal distribution might, in certain cases, facilitate  arbitrary dismissals. Therefore the French dele-  gation was against the proposed texts,
(96) Mr. NOGUEIRA (Uruguay) considered that  long-term contracts were essential to efficiency.  Officials needed the guerantee of stability and a  suitable pension at the conclusion of their working  days. If officials were not afforded the protection  of sufficiently long contracts, there was little chance  - 600 -     COMMISSION  of their renouncing national fields for international  work. It was not enough to study their salaries; the  system of long-term contracts renewable after 5 or 7  years should be made general. It should also be  possible to transfer officials from one department to  another, according to the requirements of the service,  Otherwise, instead of an international civil service,  the Organization would find itself staffed by a body of  persons holding scholarships or travelling bursaries,
(97) The delegation of Uruguay would vote for the  Italian draft resolution (document 8C/DR/74), with an  amendment to tl.. effect that the years spent in the  Organization by a staff member should count for  pension purposes,
(98) In its 1925 Pensions Law, the speaker added, his  country had laid down that League of Nations employees  should be placed on the same footing as national civil  servants.
(99) Mr. HENQUET (representing the Staff Association  thanked the Chairman and the Commission for their  generosity in allowing him to put the staff's point of  view before them.
(100) He first reminded the Commission that the Staff  Association's function was not only to represent the  staff and protect their interests, but also, in certain  cases, to give the Director-General its advice, Its  advisory capacity, established in the Staff Regulations,  had already been recognized by the General Conference  and the Executive Board. Thus the Association had  taken part in the appointment of staff representatives  to the joint committees which the Director-General  was required to consult whenever he proposed to make  any important changes in the Staff Regulations, Yet  those committees, he said, had not been consulted  about the changes envisaged in document 8C/ADM/11,  The changes affected the criteria for the renewal of  fixed-term contracts. Sixty per cent of staff mem-  bers belonging to ihe Professional category held such  contracts, Accordingly, the provisions that might be  made concerning the renewal of those contracts would  apply to the great majority of the staff in that category,  Again, there was no absolutely clear distinction  between a permanent contract and a contract for a  fixed period; the jurisprudence of the United Nations  administrative tribunal, for instance, was based on the  idea that any official who had performed his duties  satisfactorily could reasonably expect to have his  contraël renewed unless the post were suppressed. The  Unesco Appeals Board had recently confirmed the  reasonable presumption of renewal of contracts for  officials whose services had heen satisfactory.
(101) Analysing the Director-General's proposals, Mr.  Henquet said that the Staff Association fully subscribed  tothe considerations set forth in paragraph 18 of the  document, dealing with the necessity of eniuring the  stability of the Secretariat and security of employment  for the staff. But it wished to make some observations  concerning the new texts proposed for paragraphs 4.2,
4.5.1 and 4.6 of the Regulations.
(102) With regard to Number 4.2, Mr. Henquet drew  the Commission's attention to the problems that might  arise if the criterion of "integrity" were to be applied  to staff that had been in the service of the Organization  for a considerable time.
(103) With regard to paragraph 4.5.1, he said that  the Staff Association was worried over the subjective   ADMINISTRATIVE  criteria of interpretation, proposed in paragraph 27  of the document, for judging aptitude for international  civil service,
(104) In connexion with paragraph 4. 6, Mr, Henquet  stressed the dangers of including in the Staff Regula-  tions a text strictly applying the principle of  geographical distribution. The International Civil  Service Advisory Board had recognized the necessity  of a certain elasticity in the {implementation of that  principle, and neither the staff regulations of the  United Nations nor those of the other Specialized  Agencies contained any hard-and-fast rule in that  matter. The Staff Association was very anxious for  the administration not to invoke that principle when  renewing contracts, but only when recruiting new staff
(105) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL, answering the  question raised by the delegate of Lebanon, said that  the only person who could dccide what exactly pro-  gramme requirements involved, as far as staff  contracts were concerned, was the Director-General.  It stood to reason that the Director-General would  always keep programme requirements, in the general  sense, in mind, but the phrase "in the light of pro-  gramme requirements" was open to no wholly  satisfacrory interpretation, and he therefore  recommended its deletion.
(106) The delegate of the United States of America  had said that the proposal he ha” made in paragraph
19 ran counter to his proposal for a new paragraph
4,6. In that paragraph, he was proposing that con-  tracts expiring on or before 31 December 1956 should  not be renewed, in cases when their renewal would  militate against improved geographical distribution of  staff, The authority given him to take such action  would expire at the end of 1956, Even if tha proposed    COMMISSION v-18  new paragraph 4,6 were adopted, he would still award  many indeterminate contracts, so that in the next two  years steady progress would be made towards the  target figures set forth in paragraph 19.
(107) During the years 1955-56, but especially in
1956, he would recruit from the under -represented  areas, und persons appointed early in 1956 would have  two years of service before the General Conference  met in 1958, by which time the percentage of per-  manent posts would have approached even more closely  the figure proposed in paragraph 19.
(108) He had submitted his proposals because he  believed that better geographical distribution was  necessary for Unesco, and that such geographical dis-  tribution could not be achieved without changes in the  Staff Regulations. There could be no decisive  improvement in that respect with the number of  vacancies now occurring. Some of those vacancies,  in addition, were of so responsible and specialized a  nature, that a few countries only were likely to be able  to provide suitable candidates,
4.2.1, the reasons were set forth in document
8C/ADM/14,
(110) He wished to make it clear that he desired to  obtain the services of staff ~f the highest standards of  competence and integrity, and also to improve geo-  graphical distribution. If the new paragraph 4.6  were adopted, it was his intention, after 1956, to lay  less stress on geographical distribution when con-  sidering how posts should be filled. But adoption of  that paragraph was essential if a proper balance was  to be obtained at the outset.  The meeting rose at 1 p.m.  EIGHTEENTH MEETING
29 November 1954 at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman : Mr. BEEBï (New Zealand)  ITEM 9.5.1 OF REVISED AGENDA: PERSONNEL  RECRUITMENT STANDARDS AND METHODS  (document 8C/ADM/11) (continued)
(1) The Commission renewed its examination of  proposed amendments to Staff Regulations 4.2 to 4.6.
(2) Mr. ATTAGARA (Thailand) moved the adoption  of the proposed amendment to Regulation 4. 2.
(3) Mr. SHARIF (Pakistan) suggested that Regulation
4.2 be linked to Regulation 4. 3.1 by adding the  following words at the end of Regulation 4. 2:  "Due regard shall be paid to recruiting staff on as  wide a geographical basis as possible".    The amendment would thus bring Regulation 4. 2 into  line with the corresponding regulation of the United  Nations,
(4) Mr. SOLDATOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-  lics) stated that, in his delegation's opinion, the  principle of geographical representation should  override all others.
(5) Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS (United Kingdom) agreed  with the Soviet delegate that geographical distribution  was an extremely important consideration, but the  United Kingdom delegation felt that it should not take  precedence over the aim of securing the highest stan-  dards of efficiency, competence and integrity. He  - 601 -