v-22 ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  TWENTY-SECOND MEETING  I December 1954 at 3 p.m.  Chairman : Mr. BEEBY (New Zealand)  ITEM 9.3.4.2 OF REVISED AGENDA : PERSONNEL POLICY,  OBLIGATIONS AND RIGHTS OF STAFF MEMBERS: PROPOSED  AMENDMENTS TO THE STAFF REGULATIONS (document
8C/ADM/ 14) (continued)
(1) The CHAIRMAN asked if it was the Commission's  wish that countries should be allowed to speak for a  second time during the general discussion of  document 8C/ADM/14.
(2) It was agreed by 13 votes to 7, with 7 abstentions,  that there should not be a second round of speeches  during the general discussion,
(3) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) reminded the Chairman  that he had asked, nt the end of the morning, if the  Legal Adviser would read Article XIII of the United  Nations - Unesco Agreement,
(4) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) read out the article,
(5) Baron VAN DER STRATEN WAILLET (Belgium)  said that his delegation's attitude to the proposed  amendments to the Staff Regulations was based on two  aims, to safeguard the independence of the interna-  tional administration vis-à-vis the governments of  Member States, and to respect the acquired rights of  staff members.
(6) It was therefore unable to support any amendment  which would either confer discretionary powers on  the Director-General or lessen his independence, The  first question which arose was how far the proposed  amendments were compatible with observance of  those principles, and the speaker confessed that the  Secretariat's explanations had not altogether removed  the doubts felt by the Belgian delegation, which could  not but support those, among them the Indian and  French delegates, who had asked for further  elucidation of that point,
(7) A second question which would determine the way  in which his delegation would vote was the significance  to be assigned to the argument derived from the  Resolution passed by the General Conference at its  Second Extraordinary Session that the staff system in  Unesco should be in accord with that used in the  United Nations and the other Specialized Agencies, In  his delegation's view, being in accord did not signify  being identical; each organization had its own special  considerations, and those might justify differences in  the various systems. Moreover, in the present eon-  text, that resolution was unavaiiing, since it referred  both to the Staff Regulations of the United Nations,  which had been changed, and to those of Specialized  Agencies, e.g. WHO and ILO, which had not.
(8) In addition, as had already been rightly pointed  - 626 -     out, the United Nations General Assembly had  decided, when modifying its Staff Regulations, to  review those amendments at its next session, in the  light of further experience,
(9) Baron van cer Straten Waillet therefore conclu-  ded that the Director -General's argument was not  quite sound and might equally well be used to propose  that the Conference postpone the vote until after the  United Nations Tenth Session, i.e, until it knew what  action the United Nations had decided to take in the  light of experience,
(10) The third question which wouid decide his dele-  gation's vote was whether the proposed amendments  would in practice do what the Director-General  hoped, i. e, whether they would strengthen his powers  or give them better definition and whether they would  prevent a repetition of the events that everyone had  in mind, His delegation had to admit that it had not  found the Director-General's statement altogether  convincing on that point either. The Belgian dele-  gate remarked that, after the proposed changes had  been made, the responsibility for interpreting the  Staff Regulations would still lie with the Director-  General himself and that the repetition, in Regula-  tions I and IX, of general terms which were already  present or at least implied in Article VI of the Con-  stitution and Chapter I of the Regulations, would not  release him from that obligation; afterwards, as  before, he would be obliged scrupulously to honour  acquired contractual rights; his decisions would  moreover still be liable to be contested or invalida-  ted by the authorities concerned with administrative  law, sin” - they necessarily retained the right to  interpre an’ and every Regulation, should a dispute  arise, ‘:"dingly, the Belgian delegation thought  little real advantage was to be gained by the Director  General from his proposed amendments, and would  only agree to vote for them if it could be proved that  the future of the Organization depended on their  acceptance,
(11) As regarded the deletion of Regulation 4,2.1,  it recognized that any such enumeration must inevi-  tably be incomplete, but at the same time feared that  its deletion at the present juncture would be con-  strued, whether in good or in bad faith, as indicating  that it was open to Unesco, or even that Unesco in-  tended, to engage people who had been connected with  Fascisra or Nazism, That was of course out of the  question, The Belgian delegation therefore consi-  dered it inadvisable to delet: that regulation at  present, It wished, however, to make it quite clear  that it interpreted the list of activities as an illus-  tration and not in a restrictive sense, In conclusion  his delegation regarded Regulation 4. 2 as an ade-  quate safeguard against the employment of anyone   ADMINISTRATIVE  who had been guilty of activities or relations incompa-  tible with the service of the rights and principles for  which Unesco stood.
(12) Mr. MATIC {Yugoslavia) said that his delegation  agreed with those speakers who stressed the impor-  tance of the matter under discussion, and of the con-  sequences for the future development of the  Organization of the decision which the Commission  was about to take, It therefore considered that the  amendments to the Staff Regulations proposed by the  Director-General should receive leisurely and very  careful consideration, His delegation had attentively  weighed the arguments put forward the previous day,  both by the Director-General and by the representative  of the Staff Association, The first thing to decide  was whether the Staff Regulations did in fact require  modification, or whether they did not already lay  down in clear and precise enough terms the qualities  and duties demanded of an international civil servant,  and the nature of his relations with his own country,  Did the Regulations, as they stood, provide adequate  guarantees against any possible activity on the part  of a staff member not in keeping with his status as  an international official? And did they give the  Director -General effective powers to protect the  Organization and safeguard its prestige, in such an  event?
(13) The Yugoslav delegation thought that satisfactory  answers to all these questions were to be found in  Article VI, paragraph 5, of the Constitution and Staff  Regulation 1.4. Those two clauses were a clear  statement of the principle of inu: pendence and of the  strictly international character of such officials, as  required by the aims and duties of the Organization,
(14) A further important point which arose from the  discussion of the proposed amendments to the Staff  Regulations was whether those changes added to the  clarity and precision of the existing text. His dele-  gation did not think so. The addition of notions as  ill-defined as integrity, independence, impartiality,  political activity and good administration, far from  clarifying the present provisions, might on the con-  trary open the way to the most varied interpretations,  The proposed changes would arouse feelings of  insecurity and apprehension among staff members,  which would be detrimental to their work and to the  Organization's future. The representative of the  Staff Association had informed the Commission of  the views which were shared by almost the entire  staff, whose important task it was to give effect to  the Organization's programme, and he had empha-  sized the danger of allowing an atmosphere of fear  and uncertainty to develop in the Secretariat,
(15) The Yugoslav delegation was also unable to  subscribe to the proposal to delete Staff Regulation
4.2.1, viz. the clause debarring persons discredited  by their activities or connexion with Fascism,Nazism  or militarist aggression, from appointment to the  Secretariat. The Yugoslav delegation reserved its  right to make a further statement on that particular  matter when the Regulation came up for discussion,
(16) Mr, Matié drew attention to the fact that the  Yugoslav point of view, which had been clearly stated  at the General Conference held in Paris in 1953,  remained unchanged.
(17) The Yugoslav delegation was of the same opinion  - 627 -     COMMISSION v-22  as the Executive Board on the matters he had men-  tioned, and would vote accordingly, in the conviction  that in doing 50 it would be best serving the Orga-  nization's interests, and helping to achieve the  fundamental aim of Unesco: international collabora-  tion and understanding for the furtherance of world  peace,
(18) Mr. MERMINOD (Switzerland) observed that in  the last hundred years his country had been the seat  of various international organizations - at one tiie  of the League of Nations, and now, of the European  Office of the United Nations, ILO, WHO, the Univer-  sal Postal Union, the International Telecommunica-  tion Union, and many ot~ers, The Swiss Govern-  ment attached the very greatest importance to the  independence of the international civil s#rvice, and  would resist any interference by States that might  detract therefrom, It would therefore, as italways  had done, oppose any measure which would restrict  the freedom of the staff of international organizations.  In its view, the decisive factor in the conduct of an  international official was loyalty and faithful service  to the Organization. Mr, Merminod believed that in  Staff Regulation 1, 4 the reticence and tact rightly to  be expected of an international official were stated  in both moderate and felicit-- < terms, Should a  staff member be in any dou.‘ as to the propriety of  his private activities, he had only to consult his  superior, as was suggested in the Report of the  International Civil Service Advisory Board.
(19) Regulation 4.2.1 contained certain notions  which had given rise to a great variety of opinion and  some very muddled thinking; moreover, they  amounted to criteria of a political nature and the  Swi: « Government had always been firmly opposed  to th. introduction of politics into the Organization;  it therefore agreed with the Director-General's  recommendation on that point,
(20) Switzerland having in due time taken steps to  suppress extremist agitations which were a threat to  public order, the Swiss delegation's vote for the  deletion of Regulation 421 could not be misconstrued,
(21) Mr. CHEN YUAN (China) stated that his dele-  gation was not in favour of the deletion of Regulation
4.2.1, but not for the same reasons as those given  by other delegations. The Chinese delegation was  in favour of retaining it because it contained the  words "militarist aggression", for, while Nazism  and Fascism were dead and it was time to forgive  and forget, militarist aggression was still rampant.
(22) The Chinese delegation would vote in favour of  the rest of the amendments proposed by the  Director-General, as it felt that they would  strengthen his hands and enable him to make the  Organization work more smoothly. Mr. Chen Yuan  did not understand why there was so much feeling  about terminology; the word "integrity" had always  existed in the Constitution, and certain other words  might be difficult tc define, but that was no reason  for discarding them.
(23) Mr. POHL (Union of South Africa) agreed  wholeheartedly with what the delegate of Egypt had  said that morning, namely, that it was a matter  requiring a practical and positive approach. The   v-22  Commission had been debating what kind of Secretariat  it wanted, and that was a vital question, because the  Secretariat was not only the creation and instrument  of the Member States; it was the Member States  themselves. The Director-General, in dealing with  his staff, was guided by a body of regulations laid  down by the General Conference; he was therefore  quite right in coming to the Conference for advice if  he felt that they needed clarification, and it was for  the Conference to help him. The delegation of the  Union of South Africa was consequently in favour of  approving document 8C/ADM/14 as a whole, subject  to reservations in respect of some of the proposed  amendments.
(24) Mr. KELLY (Australia) asked the Legal Adviser  how far the Commission was bound by Resolution
10,12, adopted by the General Conference at its  Second Extraordinary Session.
(25) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) replied that the  General Conference was a sovereign body; while any  decisions it took at one session should normally be  followed by some action or other, it was always free  to decide that it would not continue with a plan of  action decided on at a previous session. In short, it  was bound by its resolutions only logically and in  principle, He then read out Resolution 10,12, which  the General Conference had adopted at its Second  Extraordinary Session, and which laid down the extent  to which it had decided to fall in with the measures  passed by the United Nations, The reservation with  regard to the Constitution could not prevent the Con-  ference from adopting provisions in keeping with  those adopted by the United Nations, but required that  such provisions be adopted by the appropriate bodies  in Unesco, It further stated that the United Nations,  as the parent body, had already adopted certain pro-  visions, while the other Specialized Agencies had not  so far altered their Regulations,
(26) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL warmly thanked  delegates who had spoken kindly of his intentions, and  also thanked the representative of the Staff Associa-  tion, who had referred to the good relations existing  between the Director-General and his staff,
(27) Referring to Resolution 10, 12 on page 1 of docu-  ment 8C/ADM/14, he agreed that he had not been .  required to make proposals, but he had been asked to  submit a report on action taken to ensure that Unescds  policy as regarded the rights and obligations of staff  members accorded with that of the United Nations and  other Specialized Agencies, He had therefore thought  that, in cases where it was impossible to follow the  policy of the United Nations and other agencies, he  should explain the reason why that was the case to the  General Conference and make practical proposals. In  dealing with the very important legal problems in-  volved, he had decided to be guided by legal counsel,  which he trusted, He was informed of how the United  Nations Administrative Tribunal interpreted the  various terms, such as "integrity", "misconduct",  "serious misconduct" etc, He had decided to con-  strue those terms in a manner favourable to the  employee, whenever he had a serious doubt in mind,  In some cases, he could have given a broader sense  to "unsatisfactory services', but his conscience had    - 628 -  ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  prevented him from doing so; he had felt, with the  Secretary-General of the United Nations, that  executive heads should not abuse any of the legal  concepts in order to escape from difficulties, but  should wait and seek any necessary authority from  their governing bodies,
(28) His difficulty was that the existing Staff Regu-  lations were not adequate to erforce the requirements  of the Constitution. Obligations were imposed upon  staff members, but the Director-General did not  have the power to ensure that staff members fulfilled  those obligations. Many delegations seemed to think  that the problem was to protect the Secretariat from  interference by Meinber States, but that was not so,  No Member State had interfered with the rights of  members of the Secretariat, Demands of Member  States were sometimes involved, but the Director-  General clearly had the power not to respond to  requests or demands from Member States, unless he  felt that they were justified under the Constitution  and Staff Regulations,
(29) It had been suggested that the 'roposed amend-  ments to the Staff Regulations would prevent incidents,  but of course they would not; if they could, there  would be no need for the Administrative Tribunal or  the Appeals Board. However, he wished to point  out that all incidents so far had arisen under the  existing Staff Regulations, and not under the  amendments which he was at present proposing.
(30) The CHAIRMAN invited the Commission to  consider eack of the proposed amendments in detail.  Staff Regulation 1, 4 (Section C, paragrap’. 6 on page
4 and Section B, paragraph 4 (a) on page 2)
(31) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL recalled that he had  already explained that the result of the proposed  amendment would be to add integrity, independencu  and impartiality to the qualities required of interna-  tional civil servants, He drew attention to a slight  misprint: in paragraphs 8 and 7 on page 4, the  words "(See Section B 1 (a))" and "(See Section B 1  (b))" should read "(See Section B 4 (a))" and "(See  Section B 4 (b))".
(32) Mr. KELLY (Australia), seconded by Messrs.  CHEN YUAN (China) and DE LOS SANTOS (Philip-  pines), moved approval of the proposed amendment  to Regulation 1. 4,
(33) The proposed amendment was adopted by 34  votes to 3, with 10 abstentions.  Staff Regulation 1, 7 (Section C, paragraph 7 on  pages 4 and 5, and Section B, paragraph 4 (b) on  page 3)
(34) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained that the  Secretary-General of the United Nations had issued  a Staff Rule making contributions to political parties  allowable, If the amzndment to Regulation 1,7 were  adopted, he would be prepared to issue a similar  rule,
(35) Mr, DE LOS SANTOS (Philippines), seconded  by Messrs. C W, CARTER(Canada)and FERNANDEZ   ADMINISTRATIVE  MORENO (Argentina), moved adoption of the proposed  amendment to Regulation 1,7.
(36) Adopted by 36 votes to 0, with 11 abstentions.  Staff Regulations 9,1 and 9, 3 (Section C, paragraphs,  pages 5 and 6, and Section B, paragraph 4 (c) and (d)  on pages 3 and 4)
(37) The proposed amendment to Regulation 8.1 was  adopted,
(38) The CHAIRMAN requested the Director-General  to present Regulations 9.1.1, 9.1.2, 9.3 and 9.3.1.
(38) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained that the  first point under Regulat.on 9.1.1 was that termina-  tion of an appointment should be accompanied by a  statement of reasons, chailengeable in terms of  honesty and adequacy by the Appeals Board and Ad-  ministrative Tribunal, In another document, he had  requested that relations with the Tribunal be extended  by vote of the General Conference,
(40) Under 9.1.1 (a), he drew attention to the fact  that the word "conduct" was used; he thought it a  good word to maintain, as it appesred in the Report  of the International Civil Service Advisory Board  (ICSAB). If the Commission desired, he would be  prepared to extend the second line to read: ".. highest  standards of integrity required by Article VI, para-  graphs 4 and 5 of the Constitution of Unesco''.
(41) Regulation 9.1.1 (b) simply meant that he would  be able, but would not be obliged, to terminate an  appointment, if certain facts anterior to that appoint-  ment came to his knowledge, He would have to give  reasons for such a termination.
(42) The next paragraph (unnumbered) was in accord-  ance with the United Nations proposal. The Director-  General would withhold action until he had obtained  the advice of # special advisory board, He proposed  to follow the plan of the United Nations and to ask the  President of the International Court of Justice to  nominate a chairman of the advisory board; he him-  self would then select its remaining members, in  consultation with the Staff Association. The only  purpose of the proposed new regulation was to enable  him to ensure that the staff met the highest standards  required under the Constitution.
(43) Mr. KELLY (Australia) moved approval of the  whole of Regulation 9.1.1, on the understanding that  there would be a specific reference to paragraph 5 of  Article VI of the Constitution in sub-paragraph (a).
(44) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL replied that in that  case, as "integrity" was mentioned only in paragraph
4 of Article VI, it would have to be deleted in sub-  paragraph (a) of Regulation 9,1.1. The Commission  might wish to refer simply to Article VI, but it  should also add a reference to Chapter I of the Staff  Regulations. Sub-paragraph (a) would thus read:  "... highest standards required by Article VI of  the Constitution of Unesco and Chapter I of the Staff  Regulations”.
(45) Mr. JUVIGNY (France) asked that a vote on  Regulation 9.1.1 be taken, paragraph by paragraph,  - 629 -     COMMIBBION v-22  beginning with the first part down to the end of  paragraph (a), continuing with paragraph (b) and then  taking the last paragraph.
(46) The CHAIRMAN replied that the voting would  be taken as requested by the delegate of France,
(47) Regulations 9,1.1 and 8.1.1 (a) as amended by  the Director-General were adopted by 33 votes to 5,  with 10 abstentions.
(485 Mr. TVETERAS (Norway) thought that more  emphasis should be laid on present integrity, rather  than on past facts, He therefore proposed the  following amendment:  "If facts anterior.., come to light which have  been purposely concealed and which, if they had been  known, etc."
(49) Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS (United Kingdom)  agreed with the intention behind the Norwegian dele-  gate's proposal, but would prefer the following  wording:  "If facts anterior to the appointment of the staff  member and relevant to his suitability, and which  reflect on his present integrity come to light which,  if they had been known, etc."
(50) Mr. TVETERAS (Norway) withdrew his amend-  ment in favour of that of the United Kingdom  delegation,
(51) The United Kingdom amendment was adopted by
32 votes to 2, with 11 abstentions,
(52) Regulation 9.1.1 (b), as amended,was adopted  by 32 votes to 13, with 6 abstentions.  Last paragraph of Staff Regulation 9. 1. 1(unnumbered)
(53) Mr. ABEYWICKREMA (Ceylon) pointed out that,  as the paragraph was worded, a staff member could  still assert that the advisory board had been set up  in an arbitrary manner. He therefore proposed that  the psragraph be extended to include the explanation  given earlier by the Director-General.
(54) The DIRECTOR -GENERAL thought that it  would be sufficient to have his statement in the  records of the General Conference. He was against  inserting it in the Regulations, as that would be  tantamount to obliging the President of the Interna-  tional Court of Justice to nominate a chairman, He  added that the first line should be amended to read:  "No termination... shall take effect until the  matter..."
(55) Mr. ABEYWICKREMA (Ceylon) accepted the  Director-General's explanation, but would neverthe-  less like the words "in consultation with the Staff  Association" to be added at the end of the paragraph.
(56) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL had no objection to  that addition.   V-22 , ADMINISTRATIVE
(57) Mr, JUVIGNY (France) felt that the paragraph in  question would in fact provide Unesco officials with an  additional guarantee; the speeial advisory board was  clearly not meant to hinder the operation of the nor-  mal legal channels, viz. the Appeals Board and the  Administrative Tribunal.
(58) He had been about to ask the same question as  that just put by the delegate of Ceylon, but in view of  the Director -General's explanations, and in the  absence of any indication as to its composition, he  could not regard such a body as a guarantee; would  its members be chosen by the Director-General, or  would it he a joint body? Alternatively, would it be  made 1, of independent members? It was not impos-  sible that the Board would be an independent body up  to a point, but, as from the explanations given he  could not be sure that it would not merely be an  emanation of the Director-General, he would be  unable to vote for that clause,
(59) Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS (United Kingdom) was  against restricting the Director -General's consulta-  tions by adding the words "in consultation with the  Staff Association", as he thought that the Director-  General should also consult the Executive Board.
(60) Baron VAN DER STRATEN WAILLET (Belgium)  agreed with the delegates of Ceylon and France. To  mention a special advisory body in a text incorporating  a staff rule, without giving a precise definition of that  body in the rule, would be a cause of difficulty, A  special paragraph setting out the composition and  functions of the Board was, he thought, essential,
(61) Mr. HUZAYIN (Egypt) pointed out that the Con-  ference had given the Director-General its confidence,  so that it could trus. him to set up the advisory board  in the way he had described. It was unnecessary to  insert the Director-General's statement in the Staff  Regulations. He moved approval of the paragraph,  with the slight drafting change mentioned by the  Director-General.
(62) The paragraph, with the word "effect" substitu-  ted for "place" in the first line, was adopted by 32  votes to 3, with 12 abstentions.
(63) Regulation 9.1,1 as a whole, as amended, was .  adopted by 34 votes to 10, with 5 abstentions,  Staff Regulation 9,1,2
(64) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL expressed apprecia-  tion of the profound attention which the Commission  had given to his proposals and said that, in a spirit  of understanding and compromise, he was prepared  to withdraw the proposed Regulations 9.1.2 and 9.3.1,
(65) Regulations 9.1.2 and 9, 3,1 were thus withdrawn,  Staff Regulation 9.3
(66) Adopted unanimously.  Staff Regulation 4.2.1
(67) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained that, for  - 630 -     COMMISSION  the reasons which he had already given, he thought  it preferable to delete Regulation 4.2.1. Not only  was it not in the regulations of the United Nations  and other Specialized Agencies, but the question of  defining ‘militarist aggression" might give rise to  additional problems, However, he realized that,  whether it were deleted or not, some countries  would not be satisfied. He would therefore withdraw  his proposal to delete Regulation 4. 2,1 on the under-  standing that any delegate who so desired could move  that it be deleted,
(68) Since no delegation moved its deletion,  Regulation 4. 2,1 was maintained,
(69) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL announced that he  was prepared to submit a report to the ninth session  of the General Conference, accompanied by any  comments which the Executive Board might wish to  make, on measures taken to implement the amended  Regulations and on action taken by the United Nations  General Assembly at its Ninth and Tenth Sessions.
(70) The CHAIRMAN announced that the Commission  had completed its consideration of document
8C/ADM/14.
(71) Mr. JUVIGNY (France) enquired whether it  was necessary or customary to vots on the whole  set of provisions which had been voted and approved  seriatim.
(72) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that it was, in  reality, a question of a series of separate regula-  tions, accompanied by explanations givan by the  Director-General, If the Commission voted on the  document as a whole, it would be voting, not only on  the amendments, but also on the explanations.  However, he would do whatever the Commission  desired.
(73) Mr. JUVIGNY (France) said he would not press  the point; he would fall in with the practice and rules  of the Conference if that was how they should be  interpreted.
(74) Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) thought the Commis -  sion could rely on the Chairman's wisdom, It was  not the Regulations as a whole that were being  modified, but only some clauses in them, In expla-  nation of his vote he referred to his statement at the  previous meeting.
(75) Mr. JUVIGNY (France), without pressing for a  vote on the document as a whole, wished to explain  his vote,
(76) It seemed to him that, whereas the measures  adopted resulted in increased powers, the guarantees  had been weakened or diminished, and his delegation  had consequently been compelled to refrain from  voting on some items, He wished however to thank  the Director-General for having voluntarily with-  drawn the most controversial of his proposals.  The meeting rose at 6,0 p.m.