(120) The proposal, as amended, was adopted, it  being understood that the Director-General would  be authorized to make the necessary budget  changes.
(121) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that certain  regulations would require amendment, and it was  agreed that the Legal Committee should deal with  that aspect of the matter,  ITEM à 2 OF REVISED AGENDA (continued)
(122) The Commission resumed its consideration  of document 8C/BUD/1.    COMMISBION  PART UI - GENERAL ADMINISTRATION  CHAPTER 3 — BUREAY OF PERSONNEL AND MANAGEMENT
(123) Mr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America)  moved that the paragraph contained in document
8C/BUD/1, page 23, be adopted as the  Commission's recommendation,
(124) The proposal was seconded by the delegate  of Israel, supported by the delegates of France  and Belgium, and adopted.  The meeting rose at 7.30 p.m,  FIFTEENTH MEETING
25 November 1954 at 10 a.m.  Chairman : Mr. BEEBY (New Zealand)  later: Mr. AVIDA (Israel)  REQUEST FROM TRE DELEGATION OF ISRAEL FOR THE  WRITING OFF OF THE SUM OF $5,714.38 BEING A LOSS  INCURRED BY THE ISRAELI NATIONAL COMMISSION ACTING  AS A DISTRIBUTION AGENCY FOR UNESCO COUPONS (docu-  ment 8C/ADM/20 Add.1)
(1) The CHAIRMAN invited the delegate of Israel to  introduce his Government's request for writing off  the loss incurred in the distribution of Unesco  coupons.
(2) Mr, AVIDA (Israel) said that there was not much  to be added to the information contained in the  document before the Commission, He recalled that  during the discussion of the similar request  submitted by Iran the delegation of the United States  of America had asked for an assurance that such  cases would not recur, It had been stated that the  Director-General had taken the necessary steps in  that connexion and therefore he, the representative  of Israel, requested the Commission to adopt the  draft resolution contained in the last part of his  Government's request,
(3) Mr. HUZAYIN (Egypt) said that, when the  request of Iran had been discussed, the  Commission had decided that it should not  constitute a precedent, and that individual  cases should be judged on their merits. In  the case of the Iranian request there had been  time to study the available evidence, For the  Israeli request there was both insufficient time  and not enough available data to give the  matter the necessary consideration from the  point of view of Unesco, and he therefore  proposed that the request should not be discussed,
(4) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) did not share the  views of the Egyptian delegate, although he agreed  that the previous decision in favour of the Iranian  Government did not constitute a precedent to be  invoked in every case, The members of the  Commission were, however, aware of the facts  behind the Israeli delegation's request; they were  similar to those adduced by the Iranian delegation.  Those facts, which had been confirmed by the  Director-General, justified the Israeli Government's  request, with the difference that the lapse of time  was shorter than in the case of Iran, The loss had  occurred because payment was made only 10 days  after the change in the rate of exchange, The sum  involved was not likely to disturb the balance of  Unesco's budget, and its payment to the Israeli  Government would satisfy the demands cf justice,
(5) The Israeli delegate’s proposal was adopted by
37 votes to 2, with 3 abstentions,  REQUEST FROM THE NATIONAL COMMISSION OF THE  FEDERAL PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA FOR THE  WRITING OFF OF THE SUM OF $ 1, 666.47, BEING A LOSS  INCURRED BY THE COMMISSION ACTING AS A DISTRIBUTING  AGENCY FOR UNESCO COUPONS (document 8C/ADM/29 Add.2)
(6) Mr, PETROVIC (Yugoslavia) requested the  Commission to approve a resolution, similar t_ that  just adopted at the request of the Israeli delegation,  in favour of the National Commission of the Federal  People's Republic of Yugoslavia, The sum to be  written off was the equivalent of $1,666.67.
(7) In reply to a question from the delegate of the  - 578 -   v-15  Union of South Africa, Mr. Petrovic said that,accord-  ing to the Secretariat's comments on the requests  presented by the Governments of Yugoslavia and  Israel concerning losses incurred in the sale of  Unesco coupons (document 8C/ADM/29 Add. 3),the last  instalment of the Yugoslav payments was made In  August 1952, but in fact it went back to January 1852,  As the United Nations account in Belgrade had been  utilized, there had been some lapse of time before  Unesco was informed.
(8) The Yugoslav proposal was put to the vote without  further discussion and adopted by 37 votes to 1, with
3 abstentions,
(9) Mr. BEEBY (New Zealand), Chairman, then  vacated the Chair, which was then taken by Mr.  AVIDA (Israel), Vice-Chairman of the Administrative  Commission.  ITEM 9.6 OF REVISED AGENDA : RESOLUTIONS AND RECOM-  MENDATIONS OF UNITED NATIONS ORGANS CONCERNING  UNESCO (document 8C/ADM/19)
(10) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) ex-  plained that document 8C/ADM/19 ("Resolutions and  recommendations of interest to Unesco, adopted by  organs of the United Nations") was purely informative  and was intended to supplement the Report of the  Director-General (documents 8C/3 and 8C/3 Add.),  which had already been discussed by the General  Conference in plenary meeting.
(11) The document showed that co-operation between  Unesco and the various organs of the United Nations  was becoming increasingly close and fruitful,
(12) Mr. Maheu wished to make two special  observations.
(13) Part I of the document related to Unesco's  Annual Report to the United Nations, which was  examined each year by the Economic and Social Coun-  cil. The Council had discussed the Report at its  session in July 1954 and, for the first time, had  unanimously approved it. .
(14) The second observation concerned Part Ii of the  document: Unesco's relations with the Trusteeship  Council. Although strictly technical in character,  the Organization's co-operation appeared to be highly  appreciated by the Trusteeship Council.
(15) As the Commission was not required to take any  decision on document 8C/ADM/19, it took note of it  and proceeded to the next item on its agenda.  ITEMS 9.6.2 AND 9.6.3 OF REVISED AGENDA : QUADRENNIAL  REVIEW BY THE EXECUTIVE BOARD OF THE EMPLOYMENT  OF SUBVENTIONS (1950-1933) (document 8C/ADM/20) AND  OUADRENNIAL REVIEW OF THE DIRECTIVES CONCERNING  RELATIONS WITH INTERNATIONAL NON-GOVERNMENTAL  ORGANI ZATIONS (document 8C/ADM/21)
(16) Mr. VERONESE /Executive Board) pointed out  that the document submitted to the Commission came  from the Executive Board. The General Conference  had instructed the Board to examine the employment  of subventions granted to non-governmental organiza-  tions. The report covered the activities of those  - 580 -  ADMINIBTRATIVE     COMMISBION  organizations during the past four years, which had  been reviewed at the Board's thirty-eighth session,
(17) Mr. Veronese summarized the four conclusions  and the six recommendations set out in Section | of  the document. In particular, he drew the Commis-  sion's attention to the following facts:
(1) The co-operation of the non-governmental or-  ganizations with Unesco, and the sipventions granted  to them by the Organization had y:elded resul:s which  the Secretariat could not have achieved alone.
(2) The percentage of the budget granted to non-  governmental organizations as a whole tended to  remain stable, but it was impossible to siabilize the  proportion allotted to each field of work. ;
(3) Unesco was naturally particularly interested in  the non-governmental organizations set up under its  auspices; they enabled the Organization to save  considerable sums of money.
(4) There were financial difficulties in the way of  extending the geographical scope Of organizations;  moreover, certain highly specialized scientific or-  gamzations had great difficulty in finding national or  even regional speclalists in all countries.
(18) Mr. Veronese drew the Commission's attention  to the recommendations of the Executive Board, in  particular to the last two:  (v) The information contained in document 38 EX/7  should be used as a basis for the preparation of an  appropriate publication designed to impart to the  general public a fuller knowledge of the work accom-  plished in the field of international co-operation with  the help of Unesco's subventions.  (vi) In preparing the next quadrenmial review of the  employment of subventions, it woula be desirable to  consider making use of the evaluation techniques used  in the social sciences.
(19) Mr. RAADI (Iran) expressed his approval of the  document in general and of the Executive Board's  conclusions in particular, He drew the Commission's  attention to the need for extending the geographical  scope of non-governmental organizations to cover the  whole world. He believed that the organizations  made Unesco's work easier, and that, being non-  governmental, they helped to give a proper balance to  Unesco, which itself was a purely intergovernmental  organization.
(20) Most of the non-governmental organizations were  found in highly deveioped countries. The delegation  of Iran recognized that to be unavoidable for the time  being, "ut hoped that the state of affairs would not  persist; the subventions granted by Unesco to non-  governmental organizations should be proportionate  to their endeavours to form national leaders. The  Iranian delegate added that additional efforts should.  be made to ensure a larger attendance by delegates  from distant countries at conferences held under the  auspices of non-governmental organizations.
(21) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  assured the Iranian delegate that the problem of geo-  graphical representation in the organizations was a  major concern of the Secretariat, whose efforts had  already produced appreciable results,
(22) He explained that there were 49 non-governmer  tal organizations 1n receipt of subventions from  Unesco. Twenty-seven of them were represented in   ADMINISTRATIVE  more than 20 countries end some of them in over 40  countries. That was particularly remarkable since
21 1 on-governmental organizations established vader  Unesco's auspices were found:d very recently.
(23) Mr. ABEYWICKREMA (Ceylon) was in agree-  ment with the views expressed by the Assistant  Director-General and by the representative of Iran.  He was orepared to support the recommendaiions  contained in the Executive Board's review.
(24) It was a fact that a large number of scientific  vrganizations were centred in Europe and held their  conferences in European countries. That was pos-  sibly unavoidable, but it made it very difficult for  certain distant and less highly developed countries to  send representatives to those conferences, and to  benefit from them fully. He therefore supported the  suggestion that some proportion of the subventions  granted to those orgarizAtions should be made available  to small countries to cover the cost of participating in  their work.
(25) Mr. POHL (Union of South Africa) recalled that  his delegation had always been in favour of a concen-  tration of efforts and a stabilization of the Organiza-  tion's programme. He agreed that much valuable  work could be achieved by the granting of subventions  to non-governmental organizations. Strict contro!  should, however, be exercised over the granting of the  subventions and in that connexion the activities of the  organizations in question should be subjected to the  most thorough scrutiny to ensure that they were being  carried out in a sufficiently important field and that  they were of value to Unesco, The international or-  gamzations should be given financial assistance, but  he was opposed to Unesco taking upon itself the  greater part of the burden of supporting them.
(26) Mr. TUNCEL (Turkey) expressed his satisfaction  with the report presented by the Executive Board. He  thought the co-operation established between Unesco  and the non-governmental organizations was of the  very greatest importance and hoped that the organiza-  tions would be called upon to assist in planning some  of Unesco's programme projects, as well as in carry-  ing them out. He urged that the problem should be  studied anew with a view to drawing up Unesco's  future programmes.
(27) Dr. MUDALIAR (India) said that his delegation  was much interested in the question of subventions for  non-governmental organizations. Such organizations,  in order to receive subventions from Unesco, should,  however, be international in membership and in their  activities. He approved the principle of broader  geographical representation advocated by the Executive  Board. If it was true, for historical and other rea-  sons, that most of those organizations were in one  continent, they should nevertheless, when convening  conferences, attempt to meet in other parts of the  world as well. That would give their activities  greater publicity and would contribute to the broaden-  ing of their membership. He suggested for example  thet the International Association of Universities  should embody national unions of universities and not  merely individual universities,
(28) Although Unesco was responsible for the setting  - 581 -     COMMISSION v-15  up of a number of the international organizations in  question, it was nevertheless imperative that the  latter acquire financial stability and learn to stand  alone as soon as possible, He did not object to the  granting of contracts, tut thought it wrong to encour  age absolute reliance on subventions from Unesco,
(29) Finally, some non-governmental organizations  had their head offices et Unesco headquarters in  Paris. In certain cases that arrangement had proved  inconvenient; there was also a danger that it might  have an adverse effect on the work of the Organization  as a whole, and more particularly the Secrctariat. He  believed that it should be made clear to the organiza-  tions in question that Unesco would not be able to give  them indefinite shelter. Their moving to other  premises might require financial aid from Unesco,  but action in that respect would have to be taken by  the Executive Board and the Director-General.
(30) He paid a tribu.e to the work done by the Execu-  tive Board in connexion with the review before the  Commission. His delegation fully supported the  principles on which the Executive Board proposed to  pursue its work.
(31) Mr, BENCHENEB (France) agreed with the  Executive Board's recommendations but pointed out  that most of Unesco's activities received insufficient  publicity, and that, in particular, the assistance  Unesco furnished to non-governmental organizations  was passed over unmentioned. He asked what sort of  publication was contemplated by the Executive Board  in recommendation (v); 1f it was to be a pamphlet, he  thought that it would not be the most useful type of  publication, He considered that Unesco's artivities  needed constant publicity in the press, on the air and  in films. In particular he felt that Unesco's efforts  in that direction, unlike those of other international  organizations, which received constant publicity,  were reasonably effective only during sessions of  the General Conference, which occurred only every  two years,
(32) Referring to the Indian delegate's remarks, Mr.  Bencheneb thought it out of the question that Unesco  should grant aid to non-gevernmental organizations  on a purely temporary basis; that would, 1n his  opinion, be limiting Unesco's operations in an  arbitrary fashion. He recalled that certain non-  governmental organizations, older than Unesco, had  served it as models when it was established.
(33) The French delegate urged that, on the contrary,  Unesco's assistance should be permanent. It was  true that the increase in non-governmental organiza-  tions might entail financial dangers, but they could  be avoided by grouping the organizations Into  international associations.
(34) At the CHAIRMAN's request, Mr. BENCHENEB  (France) explained that he was not submitting a for-  mal proposal for the time being, but would like his  observations to be included in the minutes of the  meeting.
(36) In reply to a question by the representative of  the Executive Board, Mr. Bencheneb also intimated  that he was not referring to the wording of re-  commendation (v) but, more generaily, to the  interpretation of the term "publication".   V-15
(36) Mr. KELLY (Australia) thought that, in the case  of nearly all the organizations reviewed, the Execu-  tive Board had been insufficiently critical. That could  probably be explained by lack of time. On the face of  it, reports on organizations failed to reveal in a num-  ber of cases that they were truly international in  scope and in intention,
(37) With regard to the lack of international character,  a number of organizations had clearly done nothing to  establish contacts outside Europe, It was necessary  to define the term "international organization" and to  devise new criteria for the guidance of the Executive  Board.
(38) In the case of the organizations set up by Unesco,  and which could be considered as its children, some  had been stillborn, some existed only on paper,  while others submitted no reports on their activities  for long periods at a stretch.
(39) In view of those considerations he proposed that  the Commission, instead ot pursuing the discussion,  adopt the following resolution:  “That the recommendations before the Commission  in document 8C/ADM/20 (including especially the  reports on the subsidized orgamzations) and document
8C/ADM/21 be referred to a working party of nine  members for a report to this Commission, the work-  ing party to consist of the representatives of India,  Egypt, United Kingdom, Argentina, Colombia,  Canada, France, Denmark and the Philippines".
(40) If, as he unaerstood, the representative of  France was unable to take part in the working party,  he would propose the representative of Italy as an  alternate.
(41) Mr. PAGE (Canada) supported the proposal to  refer the matter for further study. It would be  necessary to find out in greater detail about the  achievements of the 1…:117us organizations. Some had  done good work, while .trn.e~s had shown few concrete  results,
(42) There was a danger in merely listing organiza-  tions by countries since in some countries some were  possibly not represented by more than one member.  If such were the case, it was clear that no subvention  could be granted.
(43) À further point was that many of the organizations  did nothing to give publicity to the work and aims of  Unesco.
(44) In conclusion, he said that it was possible to  scan the whole field of human activity and find gaps  where no international organization existed, but  there was no need for such an organization in any  given area, then surely there was no need to create  one.
(45) Mr. VERONESE (Executive Board) recommended  that the Commission examine the document as a whole  without, for the time being, either formulating  directives for the Secretariat regarding future  subventions or examining eact subvention separately.
(46) As the representative of … ¥.xecut.ve Board,he  had nothing to say with regard to the “‘1.s’>’alian  delegate's proposal that a working part, be set up to  study the question of subventions, but he believed that  the Commission should make a comprehensive study  of all the documents on subventions before taking a  decision on the proposed working party.  ADMINISTRATIVE     COMMISSION
(47) Mr. FERNANDEZ MORENO (Argentina) seconded  the Australian delegate's proposal.
(48) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) considered that it  would be premature and rash to adopt the Australian  delegate's proposal and set up a working party of the  Administrative Commission at that stage of the dis-  cussions, for it would not know how to organize its  work. It was a'so doubtful whether it could secure  better results in a few hours or a few days than had  been achieved by the Executive Board. The working  party could scarcely do more than discuss the few  documents submitted to the Commission, whereas the  Executive Roard had had much fuller and more  comprehensive information at its disposal.
(49) If a working party were in due course set up, the  question of the accommodation of certain non-  governmental organizations at Unesco headquarters  could be submitted to it, The same decision could  not be taken on each of those organizations; for some  of them constantly needed to refer to information  assembled by the Secretariat, which, in turn, could  use their documentation daily.
(50) As the French delegate had declined to serve on  the proposed working party, his place would be taken  by the Italian delegate.
(51) The Australian delegate's proposal was rejected  by 18 votes to 9, with 13 abstentions,
(52) The general discussion therefore continued.
(53) Mr. KOTSCHNIG {Umted States of America) said  that his delegation was most interested in improving  as far as possible, the relations between Unesco and  the non-governmental organizations. The contributions  of the latter to Unesco's work could be most valuable,  but unless the relationship between them were sound,  and unless the greatest care were taken in choosing  the organizations to be subsidized, Unesco would be  running a serious risk of squandering its funds, He  supported the views expressed by the representatives  of South Africa, Australia and Canada that the or-  ganizations subsidized should be alive and viable.  Their normal overhead expenses, including such  items as travelling and publicity, should be covered  by their own resources.
(54) His delegaticn agreed that funds should be made  available tu bring eminent representatives of small  but distant countries to conferences, but they should  not go to cover the administrative expenses of the  organizations in questivn, particularly the travelling  expenses of administrative staff
(55) Under the existing directives for the granting of  subventions, the recipient organization had to provide  a substantial proportion of the funds needed before  obtaining a subvention. In that connexion, the  review of the Executive Board provided no informa-  tion, and he feared that a detailed analysis of «he facts  would show that some nine-tenths of the funds of the  organizations were provided by Unesco. [If that were  the case, it was highly regrettable, since subventions  should only be granted until such time as the organize  tions were able to provide their own resources.
(56) He did not know which non-governmental organi-  zations had their head offices in the Unesco head-  quarters building in Paris and thought that some  - 582 -   ADMINISTRATIVE  measure of decentralization could be agreed upon. If  their head offices were moved, Unesco should not  carry the major burden of their administrative costs.  Unesco subventions should be devoted exclusively to  constructive activities,
(57) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) first emphasized the  importance of the document submitted by the Execu-  tive Board. He thought that Mr. Veronese had made  it clear that the Board had given much attention to the  que- ion, It was obvious that the Board and the  Secretariat considered the problem of geographical  representation in non- Jovernmental organizations to  be extremely important.
(58) Another no less serious problem arose - the  control of the funds granted to non-governmental  organizations. The Greek delegate urged that the  Assistant Director-General should see that the reports  submitted by the organizations were carefully checked  by the Secretariat. The auditors also should super-  vise the use of the funds with the greatest vigilance.
(59) The delegate of Greece thought that a new,  concise report on non-governmental organizations -  and, in particular, on some of them - should be drawn  up by the Executive Board. It was essential for the  Board to sift them thoroughly, and for that purpose  adennate information was required,
(60) The Greex delegate asked that his comments be  In. luded in the minutes.
(61) Mr, MARDONES RESTAT (Chile) wished to  comment on the recommendations set forth in the  Executive Board document, 8C/ADM/20. He was in  agreement with the first. With regard to the second,  he felt that the word "harmoniously" was too vague.  He would prefer it to be stated that "greater support  would be given to cultural activities”, and asked for  the inclusion of a statement to thet effect,
(62) He was not in favour of the stabilization of sub-  ventions, as he considered such a course would be a  mistake, There were organizations receiving  subventions of more than $40,000 while others had no  more than $1,000, Stabilization would perpetuate  the existing allotments although it might be better to  change them as time passed. With regard to the third  recommendation, he urged that some criterion should  be established for classifying non-governmental  organizations by categories. Such a criterion should  be applied, for example, to library organizations, In  connexion with the fourth recommendation, he stressed  the desirability of maintaining contact with the dif-  ferent regions. It was not enough for a non-  governmental organization to be in touch with the  Unesco Secretariat; it would be most useful for the  members of non-governmental organizations to  establish contacts with the National Commissions in  their own countries. In that way, it would be easier  to sce whether the activities of the member or mem-  bers in yuestion, and of their organization, were  really useful. He agreed with the French delegate's  contention that subventions should not, as a rule, be  temporary or partial. No limit should be placed on  subventions so long as considerations of efficiency,  or other circumstances, required them. At the  request of the Chairman, the delegate of Chile  said that he would present a document containing  his suggestions to the Secretariat,    COMMISSION v-15
(63) Mrs. PATRONETTO VALIER (Italy) remarked  that the Executive Board's report brought out the  differences between the various non-governmental  organizations. Their diversity was explained by the  fact that some of them were purely scientific, while  others, such as youth organizations, represented an  important section of public opinion.
(64) The delegate of Italy was in agre2ment with the  Executive Board's recommendations about the pro-  posed publication. In her view, the document could be  cast in such a form as to provide the critical study  requested by certain members of the Commission. The  publication might then act as a stimulus to non-  governmental organizations as a whole.
(65) The delegate of Italy drew attention to certain  anomalies in the Executive Board's report. A careful  reading of the document showed that certain organiza-  tions had received the same subventiontwice, that others  had been active during 1951 and 1952, but had largely  discontinued their work during later years, while,  lastly, there were organizations which made entirely  false claims that they had representatives in certain  countries. The delegate considered that anomalies of  that kind were sure to come to light if the Commission  decided to set up a working party on the subject,
(66) Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom) was  under the impression that a number of those taking  part in the discussion did not appear to know a great  deal about the non-governmental organizations and he  thought that some of the charges made against the  system as a whole were not justified,
(67) The non-governmental organizations were of the  greatest importance to Unesco and vice versa, He  personally had had a great deal of experience of their  work and, without the assistance given them by Unesco,  a great number would never have existed, particularly  in the new world,
(68) Unesco was using the non-governmental organize-  tions to an ever greater extent for implementing its  projects, They provided valuable knowledge which  would otherwise only be avai.able to the Organization  at much higher cost.
(69) With regard to the geographical expansion of the_r  spheres of activity, it had frequently been difficult to  find in other partis of the world corresponding institu-  tions with which contact could be established, A fair  degree of sucess had been achieved in the countries  of Latin America, but in Canada, for example,  progress had been much slower.
(70) He thought that those organizations which were  doing valuable co-ordinating vork should be allowed to  retain their premises at Unesco headquarters; other-  wise the work which Unesco would be compelled to do  itself would be practically doubled. If on financial  grounds such co-operation were prevented, considerable  damage might result,
(71) He agreed that publicity as a whole was inadequate,  and thought that the publication of a yearly handbook on  the work of the non-governmental organizations would  do much to obtain co-operation from abroad.
(72) Mr. FERNANDEZ MORENO (Argentina) remarked  that some ~f the previous speakers had started by  praising the work of the Executive Board, and had gone  on to make criticisms and reservations. Perhaps after  hearing what had been said later, somebody would like  - 583 -   V-15 ADMINISTRATIVE  to correct that impression, He agreed with the  statements of the delegates of India, Australia and the  United States of America. In fact, 25 of the non-  governmental organizations set up at Unesco's insti-  gation had their headquarters in Paris, 9 in the  United Kingdom, 3 in America, 1 in Switzerland, 1 in  Belgium and 1 in the Netherlands. It would be better  if headquarters were set up in different parts of the  world. He endorsed the remarks of the delegate of  Chile and asked, further, ‘hat a working party be  set up.
(73) Mr. NOGUEIRA (Uruguay) was particularly in  sympathy with the views of the delegates of the United  States of America and Greece. He made a distinction  between non-governmental organizations set up by  Unesco, such as the Theatre Inst:tute, and those which  had applied to it for aid. Unesco had some respon-  sibility for the existence and successful work of the  former. A distinction should be drawn between  different types of expenditure, between travel and  administration costs, on the one hand, and expenditure  on publications and fellowships, on the other.Account  should also be taken of the non-governmental  organizations which contributed their own funds.
(74) Mr. SANDOVAL VALLARTA (Mexico) wished to  propose a draft amendment. With the Chairman's  consent, he suggested that a working party be set up  to study and report on non-governmental organizations,  their practical usefu.ness, and whether or not they  should continue to receive subventions.
(75) The delegate of Peru seconded the proposal.
(76) Mr. RIANO JAUMA (Cuba) asked that a study be  made of the importance and usefulness of international  non-governmental organizations, and of the extent to  which the co-operation they furnished ofiset the sub-  ventions they received. He supported the delegate of  Chile's views and seconded the draft resolution pro-  posed by the delegation of Mexico. He agreed with  the opinions expressed by the delegates of the United  States of America and Greece,
(77) Mr. MORAZE (France) referred to the remarks  already made by bir Charles Webster, who represen-  ted a country which was not in the habit of taking  Justification for expenditure lightly, If the work done  by the non-governmental organizations were put in  the hands of experts employed directly by Unesco,  the cost would be enormous. He therefore concluded  that the non-governmental organizations, 25 of which  had their headquarters in Paris, enabled Unesco to  make considerable savings.
(78) Mr. Morazé would be the first to recommend an  equitable geographical distribution of non-governmen-  tal organizations if world-wide travel became simple  and well organized.
(79) He drew the Commission's attention to the fact  that certain scholars were not particularly anxious to  take part in work organized by Unesco itself and  preferred to co-operate with non-governmental orga-  nizations, established well before Unesco, which had  chosen their heaiquarters quite freely, and without  reference to fair geographical distribution.
(80) The delegate of France added that administrative    COMMISSION  expenses should not be confused with direct progremme  costs. In fact, the more administrative expenditure  was cut, the more money would be available for action,  It would also be inadvisable to compel organizations  which had been in existence only a few months, to  extend their geographical scope too soon. Similarly,  it would be unwise of the Secretariat to encourage the  formation of non-governmental organizations ata  great distance from its own headquarters,
(81) The delegate of France agrced with the United  Kingdom delegate's view that a resolution should not  be lightly adopted without a proper appreciation of ali  its consequences or a thorough investigation of the  machinery which it was desired to change. He would  deplore any decision taken by the Commission which  might be interpreted as showing lack of confidence in  the Executive Board, The discussion should be based  on the report presented by the Poard.
(82) Mr. Morazé also suggested that, if the Committee  wished a special study to be made of the geographical  distribution of the headquarters of non-governmental  organizations, it could be carried out by the working  party.
(83) Mr. RIEGNER (Vice-Chairman of the Conference  of Non-Governmental Organizations having consultative  status with Unesco) thanked the Director-General and  the Executive Board for their assessment of the work  of the non-governme-*al organizations, and the  Assistant Director-General for the explanations he had  given the Commission; he assured the Commission that  the non-governmental organizations would not fai to  make a close study of the criticisms advanced during  the debate, He warned the Commission against over-  generalization, which he did not believe could have  good results. For that reason, he was grateful to the  delegations of the United Kingdom and France, which  had defended the non-governmental organizations and  explained the difficulties that they had to overcome,  The organizations had no fear of financial supervision  with regard to the subventions they received from  Unesco, but, on the contrary, thought it desirable,  They were doing useful work and were proud of the  confidence shown in them by the General Conference of  Unesco 1n giving them financial assistance; and were  fully aware of the responsibility towards States which  that confidence imposed upon them.
(84) In connexion with widening the geographical  scope of non-governmental organizations, or the idea  of making them world-wide, Mr. Riegner said that  the organizations realized that they should one day  cover the whole world. There were various reasons,  chiefly financial, which prevented their doing so for  the time being. He asked for increased assistance,  which the organization could devote entirely to  establishing themselves in the continents where they  were not yet represented, or to bringing people from  such regions to their international conferences, for  they were in a real sense centres for work and  propaganda in support of Unesco.
(85) Mr. Riegner said that the Director-General had  called the representatives of non-governmental or-  ganizations together for consultation on Unesco's  programme; at thr.t consultation the organizations had  made a number of observations. They had also noted  with regret that the subventions ed contracts coming  under the Department of Educatio: mounted to alower  - 584 -   ADMINISTRATIVE  total than those under other Departments, such as the  Department of Natural Sciences. Mr. Riegner added  that it would be very useful to bring representatives of  remote countries to conferences on education.
(86) In comparing the usefulness of contracts with  that of subventions, the representatives of the non-  governmental organizations had been anxious, above  all, to avoid refusing any type of aid. Even the  smallest subventions invariably produced good results  as a whole.
(87) Finally, the speaker stressed the importance  that the non-governmental organizations attributed to  the Executive Board's recommendation (v). The Con-  ference of Non-Governmental Organizations had been  unable to take a formal decision on that proposal, But  he wished to inform the Commission that, at previous  conferences, many organizations had expressed a  hope that the contribution of the non-governmental  organizations to the work of the United Nations and  Unesco would be better publicized. There was no  doubt that the organizations would welcome an  objective, critical study designed to evaluate their  contribution.
(88) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) said  that he had not yet spoken during the discussion  because the document being examined was issued by  the Executive Board. But he could no longer keep  silent in a discussion which involved Unesco's  general policy of promoting international co-operation  by assistance to non-governmental organizations.
(89) Mr. Maheu wished to remind the Commission of  certain basic facts, The Executive Board's review  of the employment of subventions (document 8C/ADM/
20) was a critical study dealing with the past, while  the quadrennial review of the Directives concerning  relations with ncn-governmental organizations (docu-  ment 8C/ADM/21) dealt with the future; or, in other  words, considered possible amendments to the  Directives concerning the grant of subventions .Some  of the criticisms made in the Commission were  answered in the second document, and the Director-  General considered that those replies were satisfactery.
(90) Mr. Maheu was surprised that certain members  of the Commission had compiained that the quadrennial  report submitted by the Executive Board was not  adequate; he observed that, of all the documents  which the General Conference had to consider, the  reviewcame next in bulk after the proposed program-  me and budget and the Director-General's Report.  Nevertneless, not all the material which the Executive  Board had used in drawing it up was included in the  document, The Board kept constant watch over the  working of the non-governmental organizations, and  its report was the result of the very close contacts  always maintained, particularly in that field,beiween  the Secretariat and the Executive Board.
(91) Replying to a question asked by the delegate of  the Union of South Africa on the increased in subven-  tions in the Proposed Programme and Budget for
1955-56, Mr. Maheu explained that the increase,  which amounted to $96,000, was exactly equivalent to  the sums allocated to the Unesco Institutes in Germany.  The appropriations would thenceforward appear as  subventions, whereas previously they had been granted  by way of contracts. There was, therefore, no    COMMISSION V-15  question of increasing the budget, put simply of trans-  ferring funds from one category of expenditure to  another.
(92) In reply to the comment made by the delegate of  India in conuexion with the International Association of  Universities, which, in the delegate's view, should  include not only universities, but also national unions  of universities, Mr. Maheu said that each non-  governmental organization was free to adopt its own  statutes. That freedom was one of the privileges of  the non-governmental organizations, The Secretariat  no doubt had some moral influence over them and  frequentiy gave them advice; but any pressure going  beyond the limits of suggestion and persuasion would  be directly contrary to the aims pursued by Unesco in  co-operating with the organizations.
(93) With regard to the remarks made by the delegate  of India, and endorsed by the delegate of the United  States of America, concerning the fact that certain  non-governmental) organizations were housed in  Unesco's headquarters in Paris, Mr. Maheu said that  the number of organizations. involved was very small  (about 10), and, with one or two exceptions, they had  made agreements with Unesco under specific  resolutions of the General Conference.
(94) In reply to the delegate of Australia, Mr, Maheu  said that the non-governmental organizations set up by  Unesco, which might be c-lled Unesco's "children",  were not arbitrary creatiuvns of the Secretariat, but  had been established in pursuance of explicit resolu-  tions of the General Conference. Their working or  their usefulness might be re-examined, but there  could be no doubt of their origin. Some of them had  been alleged to be "still-born"; the Assistant  Director-General would like to know which. Some of  the children were very young but undoubtedly sturdy.  As far as the organizations said to exist only "on  paper" were concerned, Mr, Maheu considered that  the previous statements by the delegates of France  and the United Kingdom, who had had wide personal  experience of the work of the organizations, had ade-  quately answered the allegaticns, which were, to say  the least, somewhat rash, Mr. Maheu knew of no  non-governmental organization which could be said not  to have submitted a report and accounts to Unesco,
(95) Like the delegate of Greece, Mr. Maheu was in  favour of a new study of non-governmental organizations  if it were carried out on a selective basis. But, refer-  ring to what the delegate of the United Kingdom had  said, he warned the Commission against hasty  generalizations likely to upset the whole policy with  regard to the orgenizations.
(96) In conclusion, he considered that the establish-  ment of a working party would be necessary only if  there were real uneasiness on the subject; but, frankly,  he could see no objective justification for it, In any  case, the working party on the decentralization of  Unesco's activities could not be made responsible for  carrying out that further task, because the Advisory  Committee on Programme and Budget was awaiting  the working party's recommendations in order to  draw up its report for the Programme and Budget  Commission, which was already very much behind in  its work.
(87) Mr. VERONESE (Executive Board) said that the  Executive Board might be gratified that the discussion  - 585 -   Vv-16 ADMINISTRATIVE  on the documents concerning non-governmental or-  ganizations had been so wide. He endorsed the  Assistant Director-General's suggestion that the  survey of the past, set forth in document 8C/ADM/20,  could not be divorced from the proposals for the  future appearing in document 8C/ADM/21. In con-  clusion, he thought that all the work done would serve  to provide general directions and more exact  references for the future Executive Board of Unesco,
(98) Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom) would  not object to the whole matter being referred to a  working party for further consideration if that could  help the Conference. The subject, however, was a  rnost complicated one, and there was a tremendous    COMMISSION  need to study as much of the evidence as could be  made available. It was not a good plan to take hurried  decisions on such an important question and he there-  fore proposed that the salient points of the discussion  be made known to the Executive Board, which might  then devote further study to the matter with a view to  producing in two years' time fresh conclusions on the  basis of new evidence.
(99) The CHAIRMAN proposed that the discussion be  pursued at the next meeting,
(100) It was so agreed.  The meeting rose at 1.20 p,m.  SIXTEENTH MEETING
25 November 1954 at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman : Mr. BEEBY (New Zealand)  ITEMS 9.6.2 A~D 9.6.3 OF REVISED AGENDA: QUADRENNIAL  REVIEW BY "AE EXECUTIVE BOARD OF THE EMPLOYMENT  OF SUBVENTIONS (1930-1833) (document 8C/ADM/ 20) AND  QUADRENNIAL REVIEW OF THE DIRECTIVES CONCERNING  RELATIONS WITH INTERNATIONAL NON-GOVERNMENTAL  ORGANIZATIONS (document 8C/ADM/ 21) (continued)
(1) Mr. SANDOVAL VALLARTA (Mexico) said that,  in view of the satisfactory explanations given by the  representatives of the Director-General and the  Executive Board, and os it was clear that there was  no need to set up a special working party to consider  documents 8C/ADM/20 and 8C/ADM/21, the delega-  tion of his country withdrew the draft amendment it  had proposed at the previous meeting.
(2) Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom) thanked.  the delegate of Mexico for having reconsidered his  attitude. The discussion in the Commission had been  of great interest and many points of view had emerged,  but it was clear that if the problem were submitted to  a working party it would not be possible for the  Commission to submit a report to the present  Conference. He therefore moved the following  proposal:  "The General Conference, having considered the  voluminous reports on international non-governmental  organizations submitted in document 8C/ADM/20,  approves the resolutions in document 8C/ADM/20 and  refers hack to the Executive Board the suggested  changes in document 8C/ADM/21 to be reconsidered  in the light of the discussions ir. the Administrative  Commission, and where necessary with the assistance  of special experts appointed by the Executive Board.  The Executive Board should also refer the above  documents, with the report of the discussions in the    Administrative Commission, to the National Commis-  sions and invite them to forward their comments to the  Executive Board for its consideration. In the light of  the above information andthe comments of the  National Commissions, the Executive Board will make  a further report on the suggested changes in the  directives to the ninth session of the General  Conference".
(3) The proposal was seconded by the delegate of the  Philippines and supported by the delegates of Belgium,  Argentina, France andthe United States of America,
(4) Mr. KELLY (Australia) said that the proposal of  the United Kingdom delegate went a long way towards  meeting the views expressed …t the previous meeting  by the delegates of Australia, Canada, Mexico, India  and Argentina. He supported the proposal and sub-  mitted the following criteria, to be borne in mind  when granting subventions to international organizations  and institutions:
1. Were the constitution and work of the organiza-  tion truly international in character and scope?
2. Were the constitution and work of the organiza-  tion in accordance with the aims, ideals and programme  of Unesco?
3. Was Unesco the most appropriate body to provide  assistance?
4. Did the organization require the proposed  assistance for its contirued and effective contributicn  to the aims of Unesco?
(5) The third and fourth points were especially impor-  tant and he proposed that all four should be included  in the Summary Record for the guidance of the  Executive Board.  - 586 -