PROGRAMME AND BUDGET COMMISSION IV-12  TWELFTH MEETING
26 November 1951 at 10 a.m.  Chairman : Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland)  ITEM 8.4 OF REVISED AGENDA : CONSIDERATION OF THE  DRAFT PROGRAMME AND BUDGET, CHAPTER BY CIIAPTER,  AND SPECIAL REPORTS (continued)
(1) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that, in the  General Committee that morning, the Secretariat  had been asked to explain to the Administrative  Commission, from time to time, what the financial  situation was. Accordingly, as soon as the Pro-  gramme and Budget Commission had finished its  examination of each chapter, the Secretariat would  report, at the next meeting, on the financial implica-  tions of the decisions taken, reserving the right to  ask the Administrative Commission to approve such  further cuts in expenditure as might be required to  enable Unesco to work within the budget ceiling  decided on in plenary session. In addition, the Sec-  retariat might ask to be allowed to revert to any  particular chapter after zll the chapters had been  considered by the Prograrnme Commission.
(2) As regarded budget figures, $314, 000 more  would be required to hold the ninth session in New  Delhi, $141, 000 for the use of Russian at the Con-  ference, $40, 000 for the use of Spanish in the  Executive Board, and $12, 000 for the travel expenses  of members of the Board. There would be a decrease  in expenditure of $23, 000 (established posts,  Director-General's office, common service costs),  so that, all in all, the Programme Commission would  have to reduce expenditure, taking into account the  Advisory Committee's recommendations and the  draft resolutions submitted, by $222,937 - roughly,  $223, 000.
(3) So far, in the field of education, the additional  expenditure decided on amounted to $8, 000 and cuts  to $2,900 - a net increase of $5, 100.
(4) The Advisory Committee was recommending cuts  to the extent of $218, 946 and an ‘.1cro” 3e in expendi-  ture, on the basis of the resolut.ons submitted, of  $86, 367. Of those $218, 946, roughly $18, 000  were accounted for hy the cuts made in the Director-  General's office, the Bureau of the Comptroller,  and in common service costs, so that the net  decrease recommended was about $200,000.  The net increase on the draft resolutions was  $86, 000.
(5) The CHAIRMAN considered that the procedure  recommended was by far the best. The decisions  to be made would be provisional only and the  Commission would have a chance of going back  to those questions after the budget had been  examined as a whole.    ITEM 8.4.1 OF REVISED AGENDA : EDUCATION (continued)  (E) Rural training (paragraphs 160-162)
(6) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) asked the Secretariat to  give some explanation of paragraph 161, for he did  not see the point of the method proposed.
(7) Judging by experience at the Sirs-el- Layyan and  Patzcuaro Centres, which had been established in  rural districts to demonstrate modern methods in  action and stimulate the local economy by a suitable  programme of agricultural training, the new measures  proposed did not seem really necessary.
(8) Mrs. PINTO DE VIDAL (Uruguay) agreed with the  views of the Lebanese delegate.
(9) With regard to rural teacher training, particularly  in Latin America, she considered that preliminary  studies of the areas in which they would work should  be carried out, for conditions varied greatly. In  certain areas of Latin America the Indian problem  had to be considered; in others, farming was the  main source of livelihood; in others cattle raising;  and, in yet others, mining. The basis for the  training of rural teachers should therefore be provided  by studies of the various regions, carried out by the  Latin American governments. Consideration should  be given not only to those to be educated, but also to  tne Influence the rural teachers might have in the  communities where they wo.ked.
(10) Mr. MARTI (El Salvador) considered that rural  teacher training was Latin America's most urgent  need in the field of education. He said that El Salva-  dor could not at the moment make use of the fellowships  granted to his country for study at Patzcuaro, because  it had no posts to offer to those who had qualified in  fundamental education.
(11) The delegate of El Salvador thought it undesirable  to spend too much on experts and recommended  making use of the services of the Pan American Union  through its school, "Rubio", in Venezuela.
(12) Mr. BARDALES (Honduras) considered that the  problem of the supply of rural teachers, 80% of whom  held no diploma, had an effect on rural primary  education in Latin America.
(13) In order to give rural primary schools in Latin  America qualified teachers, it was urgently necessary  for Unesco to take measures to encourage Member  States to set up rural teacher training colleges, and,  in the countries where there were already such  colleges, to increase the number of teachers  trained in them.  - 337 -   IV-12 PROGRAMME AND
(14) He also considered that rural teachers, who  had to work in a very difficult environment, should be  better paid, and that they should receive more, or  at least not less, in salary than teachers in towns.  He believed that something had already been done in  that respect in Panama and Uruguay.
(15) He thought 1t necessary for the improvement of  rural teaching that measures be taken to provide  professional training for unqualified primary teachers  by means of correspondence courses run by the rural  teacher training colleges; they could send out their  teaching material in printed form every month and  might also employ staff to visit rural areas from  time to time and give the teachers direct practical  tests which would make good any shortcomings in the  correspordence courses. He said that Mexico  already had an institution of that kind; that Honduras  had had such a service for the past two years, and  that Costa Rica was proposing to orgamze a similar  one with Unesco's technical assistance.
(16) Mrs. REINOSO DE RODRIGUEZ (Philippines)  said that paragraph 160 was extremely relevant to  the needs of the underdeveloped countries. It was  perhaps difficult for highly industrialized countries  to understand the peculiar needs of the underdeveloped  ones. The rural teacher in the latter wus an excee-  dingly important person in the village community, he  must be a community leader, general adviser, banker,  agricultural expert and, on occasion, even  entertainer.
(17) Mr. FAUBLAS (Hait:) thought that the discus-  sions would be shorter and would proceed more  smoothly if the Secretariat were given an opportunity  of answering questions as soon as they were raised.
(18) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  said that, while the rural teacher in underdeveloped  countries might not be quite the jack-of-all-trades  suggested by the previous speaker, he nevertheless  had to have a sympathetic understanding of the prob-  lems facing those who were trying to improve village  life in general. Experience had shown that social  workers in the village needed the confidence of the  village teacher, who therefore needed some training  in how to approach the more general problems of the  community.
(19) The Secretariat had discussed the matter with  the observer from the Organization of American  States, who had agreed that the proposal implied no  rivalry with the model rural college established by  that Organization. In any case, there were other  parts of the world which were less fortunate and  needed Unesco's assistance.
(20) Mr. SANDOVAL VALLARTA (Mexico) said that  his country had had a rural teacher training centre  for the past seven years, and would be pleased to  put its services at the disposal of Unesco for the  purpose of co-operating in the work.
(21) He reminded the meeting that Mexico had  approved the agreement concluded between OAS and  Unesco with regard to the Regional Fundamental  Education Centre at Patzcuaro.
(22) A proposal of the delegation of El Salvador to  - 338 -  BUDGET     COMMISSION  delete the appropriations for paragraph 162 was not  supported. The whole of section E, "Rural Teacher  Training", was unanimously approved.  (F) The school curriculum (paragraphs 163-167) and  documents 8C/DR/82, 8C/DR/84 and 8C/DR/93
(23) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commission)  said that the Advisory Committee on Programme and  Budget (document 8C/BUD/1) thought that, before an  International Advisory Committee or. the School Cur-  riculum was set up, as proposed in paragraph 166, a  careful study of the problems involved should be made  in collaboration with the appropriate international  bodies.
(24) The Advisory Commitee on Programme and  Budget therefore recommended that the international  committee should not be set up until 1956 - thus  freeing the funds set aside for that purpose for the  year 1955.
(25) Mr. CALO (ltaly) thought the idea of setting up  an International Advisory Committee on the School  Curriculum praiseworthy, although its aims seemed  rather ambitious and complicated.
(26) While in some Member States nothing had yet  been done on school curricula, in many others an  established tradition had to be taken tnto account, and,  there, the solving of the delicate problems raised  would depend mainly on the countries concerned.  Moreover, the problems themselves were not the  same in different parts of the globe. It would there-  fore te preferable, instead of setting up one committee  of ten, to set up several small committees of three or  four, each responsibie for a group of States with  similar and comparable cultures. Naturally, those  committees should provide help for Member States  only at the latter's request, and should deal only with  major questions that had a bearing on Unesco's basic  concerns,
(27) Mr. Calo said that in recent years the tendency  everywhere had been to cut down the number of  subjects taught, and it was a matter of urgency for  Unesco to consider how the great, underlying prin-  ciples of 1ts work could be introduced into the schools  while the curricula were being lightened.
(28) If the Organization did not first make a careful  study of the question, it might find the Member States  unwilling to co-operate. The Italian delegation,  therefore, wished to lay partigular stress on the  second paragraph of its resolution (document 8C/DR/82).
(29) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that the idea of  creating an advisory committee on the school curricu-  lum had been his own.
(30) During his first few months with Unesco, he had  been greatly struck by the multitude of unco-ordinated  proposals submitted by the various departments for  the inclusion of extra subjects in the school curriculum.  It had seemed to him that the only way to harmonize  such recommendations and to ensure that the curricu-  lum was not grossly overloaded would be to set up an  international committee of experts.
(31) Unesco sometimes sent experts to Member  States, at their request, to advise on school curricula.  In the past, those experts had tended to make recom-  mendations on the basis of their own experience, with   PROGRAMME AND  the result that there had been a remarkable lack of  uniformity. The need was clear for somebody to lay  down general rules which might be adapted to local  conditions and to the economic resources of govern-  ments. Such a body would in no way impose any  rigidly uniform views.
(32) Such a committee could be consulted by Member  States on their particular problems. It would con-  sider the problem of school curricula not from a  regional, but from a world-wide point of view. Its  experience would benefit highly developed countries  as much as underdeveloped ones.
(33) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa-  tion), commenting on the Italian proposal, said that  a committee of a regional character would not cost  less than a committee of the type proposed, since,  under the proposal, it would have more members  than the ten proposed by the Secretariat.
(34) Nor was he sure that there was any point in  approaching the problem from a regional point of  view. There were neighbouring countries with very  different educational requirements. He therefore  preferred the original suggestion of a committee,  universal in outlook, wi.ose advice would be available  to Member States if asked for.
(35) Mr. ZAMORANO HERNANDEZ (Chile) said that  his country ventured to think its experience in con-  nexion with school curricula was fairly reliable. He  cunsidered it useless to alter curricula without a  careful revision of the objects which they were in-  tended to serve and of the structure of the system  within which they functioned. He therefore thought  the move '0 be a trifle over-ambitious, and felt that  Unesco was not yet in a position to undertake the  work in the form proposed.
(36) He warmly supported the Executive Board's  proposal, and considered it most important to have a  programme in which Unesco's Department of Educa-  tion and the National Commissions should take part.  Once that work, which might take years, was achieved,  the International Advisory Committee on the School  Curriculum could take action; that body would  naturally be intended solely to make general recom-  mendations, and he therefore asked that the  International Committee should deal mainly with the  techniques for working out school curricula.
(37) He thought the Executive Board's proposal that  the budget item be deleted for 1955 was well advised.  However, it was proposed that the $26, 530, set aside  for 1955, be used, if not entirely, at least partly, as  contributions to help Member States to carry out the  preliminary work properly.
(38) He considered that paragraph 163 was not quite  accurate, when it said: "Hardly less significant to  the extension of school education than the problem of  teacher training 1s the group of problems related to  the curriculum”. The truth was, not that problems  related to the curriculum were as important as  teacher training, but that reform of the curriculum  necessitated reform of teacher traiming. The prob-  lems were allied and could not be separated.
(39) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) wondered whether the  Secretariat had appreciated all the implications of the  huge and most interesting project in question.  BUDGET     COMMISSION Iv-12
(40) School curricula and educational systems were  closely linked and, while the problems of the different  countries had much in common, their solutions  depended entirely on the special social and economic  conditions.
(41) It sh. uld therefore rest primarily with the  country concerned to initiate such reforms, rendered  necessary by the ever-increasing speed of social  development.
(42) To do so, a country could obtain all the requisite  information from the Eaucation Clearing House or, at  its own expense, send missions of experts to the  country or countries whose school system and curri-  cula interested it most.
(43) Again, if it aske for direct assistance from  Unesco, the experts sent by the Organization would  have to brief themselves very thoroughly before going  out, and, in any case, should remain in the country  longer than a few months if they wanted to achieve  anything really worth while.
(44) For those reasons, the French delegation  regarded an International Advisory Committee on the  School Curriculu~ as unnecessary. Moreover, its  functions were defined only in the vaguest way, and  the Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget  itself had been very cautious 1n its recommendation.
(45) Failing some reassurance from the Secretariat,  the French delegation would suggest that the proposed  appropriations for paragraph 167 be deleted. ’
(46) Mr. FORSYTH (New Zealand) spoke with the  authority of a practising primary teacher in moving  adoption of the Advisory Committee's recommendation.  He was extremely sceptical of the ability of such an  expert body to offer advice to national educational  authorities. A long stay in a country was needed to  grasp its educational problems.
(47) He would suggest that, 1f the Advisory Committee's  recommendation were adopted, the Secretariat should  go into the matter in greater detail, so that some  more definite statement, accompanied by fuller plans,  could be made to the next Conference.
(48) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the Commission  had three proposals before it:
(1) A proposal of the Advisory Committee on Pro-  gramme and Budget, seconded by the delegations of  New Zealand and El Salvador, for deleting a part of  the proposed appropriations;
(2) A proposal of the French delegate for deleting  the whole appropriation,
(3) A proposal of the Italian delegate, seconded by  the Chilean delegation, for changing the procedure  for carrying out the suggested measures.
(49) The Chairman then asked the delegates who had  applied to speak whether they had new proposals to  put before the Commission, or whether they merely  wished to speak on the proposals already submitted.
(50) Mr. MENDIS (Ceylon), moving the amendment  submitted by his delegation (document 8C/DR/93) to  paragraph 166, said that his Government welcomed  the idea of a study being made both of the primary and  of the secondary school curriculum.
(51) In Ceylon, there had been a tendency, during the  previous twenty or thirty years, to pile one subject  on the other in the school curriculum. In addition,  - 339 -   IV-12 PROGRAMME AND  practical subjects (weaving, woodwork, basket-  making, etc.) had been included, to meet the charge  that the education provided was of too academic a  character. Difficulties had been encountered in  co-ordinating those various subjects.
(52) There was, too, a language problem; there was  a lack of textbooks in the nationallanguages(Sinhalese  and Tamil) in which instruction was given up to the  ninth year of schooling.
(53) The whole question of the curriculum was being  studied at the national level; a special committee  had been appointed, and a thorough investigation  would be made. To that end, the co-operation of  other countries would be very valuable.
(54) He agreed with the view of the Advisory Com-  mittee that, before such an advisory committee on  the school curriculum was set up, the matter should  be taken up with the National Commissions. Never-  theless, he was against postponing the problem for  another year, and a fortiori strongly opposed the  French proposal to drop parag-aphs 163-167.
(55) His delegation wes proposing that five regional  seminars be held, made up of representatives of  National Commissions, and that they be called upon  to submit their reports by March 1956, after which  it would be possible to go ahead with setting up the  advisory committee suggested.
(56) Mr. HACQUAERT (Belgium) observed that,  if the Commission endorsed the Advisory Committee's  recommendation to postpone the setting up of the  International Advisory Committee until 1956, the  Committee would need to meet only once, since the  questions it was to deal with could not be expected to  develop very rapidly.
(57) Mrs. PINTO DE VIDAL (Uruguay) was in favour  of the establishment of an International Advisory  Committee on the School Curriculum as set forth in  paragraph 166.
(58) Mr. FAWZI (Egypt) said that, according to  some speakers, the problem was so big as to need  postponement. He, on the other hand, felt it was  very urgent and requi:ed careful study. There was  a need for further investigation by Unesco on new  lines. :
(59) The word "curriculum'' was being taken in too  narrow a sense. The problem was not just to fill a  child's head with facts, but to allow him to grow ug  in the right sort of atmosphere.
(60) He was therefore in favour of taking up the  problem, although he was prepared to admit that the  project might be postponed for one year in order  that it might be given further thought.
(61) Mr. CLEGG (United Kingdom) thought that the  French proposal to jettison the work already done  in favour of youth work was equivalent to sawing off  the branch on which one was sitting.
(62) The success achieved by youth work was largely  attributable to good teacher training and to good  curricula. Youth work, too, if it was to be really  successful, had to be voluntary. He would earnestly  ask the delegate of France not to press his point.
(63) Mr. STANKOVIC (Yugoslavia) thought that, with  - 340 -     BUDGET COMMISSION  the social and economic changes that had taken  place, school curricula no longer met contemporary  needs and should therefore be revised. Moreover,  curricula needed to be given a new slant if they were  to serve the noble aims of international understanding  and co-operation. A difficult and complicated study  was necessary, which Unesco could carry out only  with the collaboration of experts from other agencies  and the National Commissions,
(64) The Yugoslav delegation could support neither  the French nor the Italian proposal, but would vote  for the setting up of the committee in 1956,  or preferably in 1957.
(65) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education),  explaining the budgetary implications of the various  proposals made, said that the French proposal to  drop the project would mean a saving of $53, 000  over the following two years. Adoption of the  Advisory Committee's recommendation, to the effect  that the 1955 meeting should be abandoned, would  save $26, 000 (cost of meeting and cost of studies).  Adoption of the Italian proposal would mean increa-  sing the number of members in the committee, or an  extra expense of $37, 000 over two years.
(66) The proposal by Ceylon for regional seminars  during the first year would be very expensive if  Unesco had to finance them. Some $80, 000 would  be required. It might be better if National Com-  missions convened meetings and appealed to Unesco  for aid; the money saved by abandoning the 1955  meeting might in that case be used to assist them.
(67) The Belgian suggestion that the committee  meet but once a year would save $18,530 over two  years, which sum could either be considered a net  saving or be used to help pay the cost of national  seminars.
(68) In reply to a question raised by Mgr MAROUN  (Lebanon), he pointed out that the International  Conference on Public Education, mentioned in para-  graph 166, was a joint IBE - Unesco Conierence,  the subject for which had been chosen by a joint  committee. It had merely been suggested in the  programme that one of the subjects for that con-  ference in 1957-58 might be primary and secondary  school curricula. It did not follow that the  conference would not meet if the paragraph were  dropped.
(69) The CHAIRMAN observed that the French  proposal for deletion of paragraphs 163-167 had not  been seconded.
(70) The Advisory Committee's recommendation,  iu favour of deferring the establishment of the  committee for one year, was adopted by 41 votes to  D, with 5 abstentions.
(7) Mr. MENDIS (Ceylon) asked for a vote on his  amendment,
(72) Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia) seconded the  proposal by Ceylon, on the grounds that it  encouraged activity by National Commissions,  of which there had recently been criticism.   PROGRAMME AND
(13) The proposal by Ceylon (document 8C/DR/93)  was put to the vote and adopted by 26 votes to 19,  with 7 abstentions,
(74) The CHAIRMAN said that the Italian delegation  would like a vote to be taken on the draft resolution
1t had submitted (document 8C/DR/82).
(75) Mr. CALO (Italy) reminded the Commission that  his delegation attached great importance to recon-  ciling the introduction of new subjects with the  general lightening of the school curriculum. He  therefore asked the Commission to take a decision  on the second paragraph of the draft resolution.
(76) As the Italian delegate's proposal was not  seconded, it was not put to the vote.
(77) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that, in  accordance with the amendment by Ceylon just  adopted, it seemed probable that the report from the  five regions would reach Unesco in March 1956 and,  since the report by the Advisory Committee on  Curricula had to be ready for the Conference in  November 1956, it was pointless (and might well be  impossible) to have two meetings of the Advisory  Committee in 1956, The ideal time for the Com-  mittee to meet would be in May or June, so that its  report could be prepared and distributed well in  advance of the Conference. The cost wou!d be  $9, 200.
(78) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) was douvtful about the  powers of such a committee and the vague way in  which the use to be made of the funds released under  paragraph 167 had been defined.
(79) The French delegation proposed to revert to the  item at a plenary meeting.
(80) Mr. ANGELL (United States of America) said  that, in accordance with what had just been said by  the Director-General, he would move that the Com-  mittee hold only one meeting in 1956.
(81) Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia) seconded.
(82) The United States proposal to the effect that the  Advisory Committee on Curricula meet only once in
1956 was adopted by 54 votes to 0, with 2 abstentions,  (G) Improvement of school education in certain  fields (paragraphs 168-173)
(83) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  was glad to be able to report that, just before the  Conference, the Director-General nad signed an  agreement with ILO delimiting the respective spheres  of the two organizations as regards vocational educa-  tion and training. There had been discussions within  - the Secretariat (although no proposals had yet been  submitted to the Governing Body of ILO or to the  Executive Board) on the possibility of making the  conference referred tc in paragraph 169 a joint one.  The ILO Secretariat had informed Unesco that the  cost of so doing had beenunderestimated. For that rea-  son it would be well to keep the original budget estimate.
(84) Mr. GARBARINO ISLAS (International Labour  - 341 -     BUDGET COMMISSION IV-12  Organization) revalled that Unesco's Proposed  Programme and Budget for 1955-56 made provision  for the holding of a conference, in collaboration with  ILO, on vocational and technical education in schools,  for the Arab States of the Middle East. He thought  such a meeting would be well-timed becatse those  countries were going through the transition from an  agricultural to an industrial social structure. He  pointed out that, in an exchange of letters between  the Directors-General of Unesco and 1LO, both had  agreed upon the importance of holding such a  conference jointly.
(85) He added that a meeting of representatives of  the Secretariats of Unesco, ILO and FAO had been  held, at which a preliminary draft agenda for the  conference had been drawn up.
(86) He believed that the proposed conference would  be an excellent instance of the collaboration which  should exist between the Specialized Agencies of the  United Nations.
(87) Lastly, he was pleased to report that the  Governing Body of ILO, at its meeting in Rome, had  approved the proposal presented by the Director-  General concerning the Conference of Arab States  in the Middle East.
(88) Section G was put to the vote and unanimously  approved.  (H) Evaluation of national puot projects in ,: .ol  education (paragraphs 174 and 175)
(89) Mr. ZAMORANO HERNANDEZ (Chile) reminded  the meeting that Unesco had made clear its intention  of promoting the Jevelopment of pre-school, primary,  secondary and vocational education, by technical cu-  operation to enable Member States to solve their  most urgent problems in those fields of education.  In addition to setting up educational establishments  of a new kind, 1t was urgently necessary (0 proviae  means of reforming the traditional educational  establishments in Member States. Experience had  shown that, to achieve such aims, schools or experi-  mental centres should be set up to deal with both  regular and out-of-school education
(90) He suggested that Unesco include experiments  in teaching In its education programme in order to  achieve the following aims: (a) the improvement of  experimental teaching bodies in Member States; (b)  the establishment of new experimental teaching  centres in countriec which desired them; and (c) the  concentration of efforts for setting up regional  experimental teaching centres in important areas of  the world.
(91) A permanent service dealing with that kind of  problem should be maintained in order to fulfil those  requirements. It would have to give information  on the following: the position of experimental  teaching; aspects of teaching which, in every country,  were suitable for pilot projects; plans for the  creation of regional centres. He furtt~rmore pro-  posed that the Director-General be authorized to  study the pcssibility of giving such a service a  permanent place in the budget for coming years.
(92) Mr. CLEGG (United Kingdom) said that the  success of an evaluation scheme (referred to in   IV-12 PROGRAMME AND  paragraph 174) depended or who carried it cut. Would  the Secretariat be the sole judge of the success or  failure of the pilot project ?
(93) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  said that two outside persons, possibly an educa-  tional expert and a social scientist from different  countries, would be asked to undertake the task.  {94) Section (H) was unanimously adopted.  (I) Developing the teaching of languages of wide  communication (paragraphs 176-178) and document
(95) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commis-  sion) mentioned that the Advisory Committee had  suggested (document 8C/BUD/1, page 6) that the  proposal submitted by the Uruguayan delegation be  given further consideration by the States concerned.
(96) Mrs. BOLLO (Uruguay) said that her country  had proposed a study of the use of Spanish and  English in the Americas because it thought a know-  ledge of those two languages to be necessary for  better international understanding among the countries  of the American continent.
(97) She recalled that in North America, and  particularly 1n the United States, Spanish departments  had been set up in almost every university, under  the control of eminent men from Spain and South  America.
(98) A knowledge of both languages would confer con-  siderable benefits in both North and South America.  For example, if the peoples of Latin America had a  better knowledge of English, they could improve their  mastery of the sciences. On the other hand, a know-  ledge of Spanish would help to give the English-  spi aking countries of North America a fuller  understanding of the countries of Latin America.
(99) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) said that,  while the Board recognized the value of the proposal,  it had decided, as it would involve large-scale  outside consultations, not to recommend adoption of  the proposal for the next two years at least.
(100) Mr. SANDOVAL VALLARTA (Mexico) and Mr.  MASSAQUOI (Liberia) supported the Uruguayan  proposal.
(101) The Uruguayan proposal (document 8C/DR/39)  was put to the vote and rejected by 11 votes to 9,  with 23 abstentions.
(102) Section (I) was thereupon unanimously adopted.  (J) Textbooks and teaching materials (paragraphs
179-185) and document 8C/DR/75
(103) The CHAIRMAN, noting that the Advisory Com-  mittee had not yet communicated its findings on draft  resolution DR/68 submitted by the delegation of  Honduras, suggested tl. at the Commission postpone  consideration of that question and asked the delegate  of Honduras to get into touch with the Chairman of  the Advisory Committee.  - 342 -     BUDGET COMMISSION
(104) Approved.
(105) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commis-  sion), after reading out the draft resolution submitted  by the Italian delegation, said that the Advisory  Committee had not had time to study that question,  nor, generally speaking, the drafts contaired in  document 8C/DR/64 and later documents.
(106) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Departraent of Education)  confessed that the Secretariat had been a little  puzzled by the Italian resolution. It was suggested  that the Secretariat should print two pamphlets. That  would cost some $2,700. The proposal also sug-  gested a small meeting of experts. Would the  Secretariat have to send representatives? The point  was not clear.
(107) It was suggested that the same work could be  done at less cost. For the reasons given above, he  was inclined to doubt that,
(108) Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) moved adoption  of the text appearing in the Director-General's  programme,
(109) The CHAIRMAN asked the Commission to  postpone consideration of the question until it had  received the recommendations of the Advisory  Committee.
(110) Approved.  (K) Teaching about the United Nations and human  rights (paragraphs 186-192) and documents
8C/DR/28, 8C/DR/55 and 8C/DR/80
(111) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commis-  sion) said that the Advisory Committee had  recommended that the proposal submitted by the  Uruguayan delegation be rejected.
(112) Mrs. PINTO DE VIDAL (Uruguay) recalled  that Uruguay had presented a proposal in the form of  a draft resolution relating to teaching about the  United Nations and human rights.
(113) She considered that, since 1945, the Charter  of the United Nations had represented the best hope  of the human race and that thenceforward its provi-  sions were the best guide for the preservation of  peace. She therefore considered it essential that all  peoples should be acquainted with it if better inter-  national understanding was to be achieved.
(114) She also thought it necessary to spread  knowledge about human rights. She reminded the  meeting that all human rights entailed duties, and  said that, if those rights were maintained ard  suitably publicized, there would be no room for the  appearance of men who, knowing nothing about them,  might impose a tyrannical rule upon many peoples.
(115) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) said that,  since the proposal had no budgetary imrlications,  the Executive Board recommended its adoption.
(116) Mr. SANDOVAL VALLARTA (Mexico) and Mr.  FRANCOIS (France) supported the proposal.   PROGRAMME AND
(117) The Uruguayan resolution (document 8C/DR/38)  was adopted by 24 votes to 2, with 19 abstentions.
(118) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commis-  sion) read out draft resclution DR/55 submitted by  the Uruguayan delegation and said that the Advisory  Committee recommended that the first paragraph be  adopted. In its remarks on the Social Sciences  chapter, the Committee had added that it also recom-  mended adoption of sub-paragraph (a), but classed  the study only in category 3. There were no  budgetary implications.
(113) The CHAIRMAN proposed taking a vote on the  first paragraph and postponing consideration of the  rest until the Social Sciences chapter was discussed.
(120) Approved.
(121) With reference to DR/80, the CHAIRMAN, in  the absence of comments from the Advisory Com-  mittee, suggested that the Italian draft resolution  be referred back to the Committee.
(122) Mr. CALO (Italy) said that, as the project had  no budgetary implications, it could be discussed  straight away.
(123) The CHAIRMAN observed that the resolution  began with the words: "Contracts will be  concluded .....
(124) Mr. VITO (Italy) then explained that the Itahan  delegation suggested deleting the international    BUDGET COMMISSION IV-13  seminars, which seemed unlikely to make any  constructive contribution.
(125) The main thing was to interest the teaching  profession in the problem. Unesco had already  approved substantial subventions to a great many  international organizations in the field of education,  which could be commissioned to carry out the work.
(126) The Italian delegation thought one of the best  methods would be to organize competitions in the  different countries, wi'n prizes which would enable  the winners to write a-” publish works that would  be of great use to their colleagues. The necessary  funds for the prizes could be taken out of the  subventions already granted.
(127) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  failed to see what the Italian delegation expected to  achieve with its proposal. It seemed to him that the  original plan prepared by the Secretariat would  achieve the very aims that Italy desired to attain, for  a modest outlay. He had not grasped the reference  to competitions, for it was impossible for the Secre-  tariat to organize competitions or to award prizes  without budgetary implications.
(128) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) considered that the  Italian delegation's proposal was most interesting  and worthy of closer study, and accordingly asked  for it to be referred back to the Advisory Committee,
(129) Agreed.  The meeting rose at 1 p.m.  THIRTEENTH MEETING
26 November 1954 at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman : Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland)  ITEM 8.4.1 OF REVISED AGENDA : EDUCATION (continued)  Teaching of the Charter of the United Nations and the  Constitutions of the Specialized Agencies (document
(1) Mr. ANGELL (United States of America) wished  to submit an amendment to the resolution adopted at  the previous meeting, which he had discussed with  the delegate of Uruguay and which would enable his  delegation to support the resolution. He proposed  that the word "encourage" should be substituted for  the word "cause"; the Federal Government of the  United States of America had no control over the  school curriculum.
(2) Mrs. PINTO DE VIDAL (Uruguay) was very  - 343 -     pleased at the support that the United States of  America was giving her country in its great scheme.
(3) Mr. ARSENAULT (Canada) supported the amend-  ment proposed by the United States delegate. In his  country too the Federal Government had no control of  education, and he had been obliged to abstain from  voting on the resolution, in spite of the importance  which his Government attached to teaching about the  United Nations.
(4) The CHAIRMAN noted the Canadian and United  States delegations! approval of the resolution contained  in document 8C/DR/ 38, adopted at the previous  meeting, subject to that slight change in wording.
(5) He recalled that the Chairman of the Advisory  Committee had been asked to consider certain draft