20 November 1954 at 3 p.m.  Chairman : Mr. BEEBY (New Zealend)  ITEM 9.4.4 OF REVISED AGENDA: CONTRIBUTIONS: SCALE,  CURRENCY AND COLLECTION OF CONTRIBUTIONS OF  MEMBER STATES (documents 8C/ADM/31 and 8C/ADM/32)  { continued)
(1) The Committee continued its examination of the  second interim report of the Committee on  Contributions (document 8C/ADM/ 31),
(2) The CHAIRMAN read out the proposed amend-  ment by the delegate of Japan to paragraph 2 of the  resolution (English text p. 5 of the document),  which had been submitted at the previous meeting:  "The contribution of China for the period 1955-56  shall be 0.16% without prejudice to any decision  which may be taken by the ninth session of the  General Conference, "
(3) Mr, SCOTT (United States of America) supported  the proposed amendment on the grounds that it would  provide more money for the Organization. Although  the reduction of China's contribution would mean a  corresponding increase in the contributions of other  members, Unesco would be given its anticipated  working budget.
(4) Mr. EL-ZAYAT (Egypt) pointed out that the  Financial Regulations would require that any  contributions from China should be set against the  advance from the Working Capital Fund, and at the  rate of $14,000 it would take more than two hundred  years to write off China's debt, If the Commission  was going to recommend that China's arrears  should be written off or frozen, it must be prepared  to face requests for similar action in respect of.  other Member States.
(5) Mr. SANDOVAL VALLARTA (Mexico) said that  the force of the proposal by the Committee on  Contributions lay in the fact that it followed the  same principle in assessing the contributions of all  countries, He did not see why China should not be  assessed on the basis of what 1t could pay.
(6) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) opposed the  Japanese delegate's amendment, The Commission  had already taken a decision to assess Member  States on the basis of the United Nations scale, and  it had been pointed out that it was not possible to  take into account the ability of individual members  to pay their contributions. He did not understand  the argument of the United States delegate, since  one member's contribution could be reduced only  at the expense of other members.  - 556 -
(7) Mr, HU CHING YU (China) said that, as he  understood it, the new assessment for China  proposed by the Japanese delegate was a temporary  measure and subject to review by the ninth session  of the General Conference, the percentage of 0.16%  representing the sum that the Chinese Government  proposed to pay Unesco annually until it was ina  position to meet its obligations in full. Ite adoption  would not therefore solve the problem facing the  Commission. The Chinese Government had made  two proposals to Unesco: one, that China's  contribution should be reassessed and reduced to a  figure not exceeding $14, 000; the other, that  payment of arrears should be subject to negotiation  when China's financial position had improved. The  Japanese delegate's amendment only dealt with the  first,
(8) Nevertheless, if the Commission was prepared  to adopt the resolution in order to give the  Organization a more satisfactory budget, the  Chinese delegation, although not benefiting by the  proposal, would support it, in the wish to be  co-operative,
(9) Mr. WIECHECKI (Poland) wanted to know if the  proposal under consideration implied increasing the  amount in dollars of each Member States's  contribution or reducing the budget as a whole.  The Polish delegation had already drawn the  Conference's attention to the absurd fiction upon  which China's representation rested. It could hardly  approve a proposal that would result in the other  States having to bear the financial consequences of  that fiction,
(10) Mr, BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) admitted  that for several years the payments made by China  had not corresponded with that country's quota,  The General Conference had recognized the  principle of token contributions in China's case.  On the other hand, he did not think it would be  possible to change China's United Nations quota,
(11) Nevertheless, he favoured the Japanese  delegation's proposal. It seemed to him preferable  to take some practical step rather than to make two  calculations, one based on China's normal quota,  one on the token contribution of $14, 000 paid into  the Working Capital Fund. The Japanese  delegation's proposal would mean that that  sum would be included in the normal  budget, it being understood that it was  only a token payment. China's unpaid  contributions were another matter and  had nothing to do with that proposal.   ADMINISTRATIVE
(12) Mr. POHL (Union of South Africa) said that  there was a divergence of opinion on the implications  of the amendment, He asked if the Secretariat  could explain its effect on the contributions of other  Member States.
(13) Mr, HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) explained  that a reduction in the percentage of China would  cause a corresponding increase in the percentage  of other members. In the case of the Union of  South Africa, for example, the assessment would  rise to 0, 74%.
(14) Mr. SOLDATOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) reiterated the view of the Soviet  delegation, stated in the Credentials Committee,  the Com mittee on Contributions, and the plenary  meetings, that the Chinese delegation did not  represent China. He accordingly opposed the  amendment,
(15) Mr, THA HLA (Union of Burma) considered  that the Japanese delegate's proposal concerning a  country which had defaulted for many years would  impose an unfair burden on other members. He  therefore opposed the amendment.
(16) Mr, PRATT (Australia) also opposed it,  because it was in direct contradiction to the procedure  which the Commission had, after much discussion,  agreed to adopt.
(17) Mr. ATTAGARA (Thailand) supported the  amendment, provided it would not prejudice China's  position in Unesco. It would be better, as the  United States delegate had suggested, to maintain  the budget ceiling of $18,000,000 and calculate on  the contributions which the Organization was certain  to receive, even though the percentages for other  members than China would be increased.
(18) Mr. FORSYTH (New Zealand) opposed the  amendment for the reason stated by the Australian  delegate, namely that it had already been agreed to  recommend assessment of China on the basis of the  United Nations scale, However, he would favour  consideration of how China might be given voting  rights without paying her full contribution.
(19) Mr, DE HOOG (Netherlands) reminded the  Commission that it had been decided to bring the  United States contribution down to 30 per cent,  Could the proposal under consideration affect the  decision made at the morning meeting? Mr. de Hoog  also wanted to know what the Netherlands’  percentage would be if the proposal were adopted.
(20) Mr, HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) said that  the United States assessment would vary according  to the assessment adog ted for China, probably by  about one per cent,
(21) In reply to the second question, if the Japanese  amendment were adopted, the Netherlands quota  would be 1.19% instead of 1.13%.
(22) Dr, MUDALIAR (India) appreciated the reasons  for the Japanese proposal, but said that there were    COMMISSION v-10  more important considerations to be taken into  account. The proposal to reduce China's assessment  to 0.16% raised the question how far it was possible  for an unrealistic scale to be maintained without  interference with the general principles adopted in  laying down Unesco's scale of contributions. As the  delegate of Egypt had pointed out, if Unesco accepted  a change in the scale of assessment for one country,  it could not refuse to do so for others. In an  organization like Unesco, it was essential to keep  to principles and he therefore opposed the amendment,
(23) In reply to the previous speakers, Mr.  HAGUIWARA (Japan) drew attention to the data given  in document 8C/DIV/93. On the basis of a percentage  of 5.06 and a total budget of $18,000,000, China's  contribution would be $910, 800, But, as things  were known to be, that sum would not be paid, and  Unesco's budget would be brought down to  $17,089, 200.
(24) The Japanese delegation's proposal would  change China's percentage, and consequently those  of the other Member States, But the Japanese  delegation thought that the real budget total  ($17, 089, 200) should be taken as a basis of  calculations, not the fictitious figure of $18, 000, 000,  In that case, although the other Member States!  percentages would be slightly raised, their actual  contributions in dollars would be exactly the same,  and the Organization would have the same budget as  it had under the existing scheme.
(25) On the other hand, the Programme Commission  might decide to adopt the higher budget ceiling. But  the United States delegation had stated that its country  could not pay more than it was paying already, i.e.  $6,000, 000 for the two years. The higher budget  ceiling was approximately $21, 900,000, If the  United States percentage had to be 30, and if their  contribution could not exceed $6,000, 000 it would  be impossible to take a total of more than  $20, 000, 000 as a basis for calculations, From that  sum, $1,000, 000 representing China's contribution  at the existing rate, would have to be deducted.  That would leave a real budget of $19,000,000. It  was on that basis that contributions should be  calculated, at the percentages altered to take account  of China's new coefficient. The Japanese delegation's  proposal would therefore give the same results as  would be obtained by the existing scale if applied to  a total of $21,000, 000.
(26) Accordingly, Mr. Haguiwara considered that,  after the decisions that had been taken that morning,  it would be best not to use the fictitious quota of
5.06 per cent for China, Ile admitted that his  delegation's proposal entailed changing the  percentages but he emphasized that the actual  contributions depended on the budget ceiling decided  on - as he had just shown, Moreover, that proposal  was intended only to make budget and contributions  easier to calculate, without prejudice to China's  legal status.
(27) Mr. DE HOOG (Netherlands) found Mr.  Haguiwara's explanations very valuable, and  said he would be glad to have them confirmed  by the Chairman and the Director-General's  representative,  - 557 -   V-10 ADMINISTRATIVE
(28) Mr, HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) explained  that, if the contribution scale in document
8C/DIV/93 were adopted and the budget fixed at  $18, 000,000, the non-receipt of China's  contribution of $810,000 would reduce the amount  for spending to $17,000, 000, If, on the other hand,  China's contribution were reduced to 0,16% and  credited to the current budget instead of against  arrears, the percentage for other members would  increase, but the spending budget would still be  $18,000, 000.
(29) Confirming a clarification by the delegate of  Japan, if a ceiling of $17, 000, 000 were adopted, the  percentages of contributions would remain more or  less the same as in document 8C/DIV/93,
(30) The CHAIRMAN put the Japanese amendment to  the vote and, the results being even, proposed a  vote by roll-call in accordance with the provisions  of Rule 84 of the Rules of Procedure,
(31) Mr, VILLALON GALDAMES (Chile) said that,  as the result of the vote was not in doubt, but showed  an equally divided vote, Rule 90, and not Rule 84,  should be applied.
(32) In reply to the Pakistani delegate, who  proposed an adjournment for consultation, the  CHAIRMAN stated that, as a vote had been taken,  the Commission must act in accordance with either  Rule 90 or Rule 84 of the Rules of Procedure.
(33) Mr. VILLALON GALDAMES (Chile) pointed out  that, if there had been any doubt, the officers of the  Commission would have said so; as they did not,  action must follow Rule 90,
(34) A vote was then taken by roll-call and the  results were as follows:  Voted for. Argentina, Belgium, Brazil, Cuba,  Dominican Republi:, France, German Federal  Republic, Guatemala, Haiti, Japan, Korea,  Lebanon, Netherlands, Nicaragua, Thailand,  United States of America, Yugoslavia,  Voted against: Australia, Burma (Union of),  Byelorussian SSR, Canada, Ceylon, Chile, Denmark,  Egypt, India, Iraq, New Zealand, Pakistan, Sweden,  Ukrainian SSR, Union of South Africa, USSR, United  Kingdom.  Abstentions: Austria, Italy, Mexico, Spain,  Switzerland, Uruguay.  Absent: Afghanistan, Cambodia, Colombia,  Costa Rica, Ecuador, Greece, Honduras, Indonesia,  Iran, Israel, Jordan (Hashemite Kingdom of), Laos,  Liberia, Libya, Luxembourg, Monaco, Nepal,  Norway, Panama, Peru, Philippines, El Salvador,  Saudi-Arabia, Syria, Turkey, Venezuela, “iet-Nam,
(35) As the voting was 17 in favour, 17 against,  with 6 abstentions and 27 delegations absent, the  CHAIRMAN ruled that, in accordance with Rule 90  of the Rules of Procedure, a second vote would be  taken in the course of the next meeting of the  Commission,
(36) On behalf of the delega:a of the Hashemite  Kingdom of Jordan, who was unable to be present,    COMMISSION  Mr, AL-HANI (Iraq) moved the following proposal:  "That the scale of contributions be calculated to  the third decimal figure instead of the second  decimal figure.
(37) Thz proposal was seconded by the delegate of  Egypt.
(38) In reply to a question from the delegate of  New Zealand, Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller)  said that the effect of the proposal would be to reduce  the percentage for the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan  from 0.04%; to 0.036%, which, on a budget of  $18, 000,000, would represent an amount of  $6,480 instead of $7, 200; a reduction of $720 for  the two years or $360 for each year.
(39) He poimed out, however, that such a basis of  calculation would have an adverse effect in the case  of certain countries, as one country could only  benefit at the erpense of another.
(40) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) did not think that the  proposal would make much difference to the country  concerned, The United Nations figure was already  a round one, but it would be preferable to adopt a  mimmum scale of 0,035 per cent, while taking the  other figures to two decimal places only.
(41) Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) said that  in that case the total scale would not reach 100%,  since twelve countries were involved. The change  could only be made in respect of all members.
(42) The proposal of the delegate of Jordan was put  to the vote and rejected by 13 votes to 7 with 14  abstentions,
(43) The Commission passed on to paragraph 3.
(44) In reply to a question from the delegate of  Japan, Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) said that  adoption of the theoretical percentages in the United  Nations scale would not prejudice his propesal  concerning China's contribution. The calculations  fr» the Unesco scale would be affected, but, as  could be seen from document 8C/DIV/93, the United  Nations percentages were necessary as the basis of  calculation for the Unesco scale.
(45) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) reminded the  Commission that at the seventh session of the General  Conference the Committee on Contributions had  inserted the following clause in its report:  "In view of the consultations which had been  undertaken by the United Nations but not yet  completed in connexion.with these theoretical  probable percentages, it was agreed that in those  cases where the Director-General is notified prior  to 1 January 1953 of a change in these percentages,  such changes will be taken into account in computing  the Unesco scale for 1953 and 1954." (7C/Resolutions,  page 85, paragraph V. (d)).
(46) Mr. Haguiwara wanted to know whether  the consultations between the appropriate  United Nations body and non-Member States  were over, If not, he thought that a  provision similar to the one adopted at the  - 558 -   ADMINISTRATIVE  seventh session should be included in the  Conference's resolutions,
(47) Mr. STERNBERGER (Chairman of the  Committee on Contributions) said that the report of  the United Natiors Committee on Contributions  stated that the rates of contribution for Unesco  members who were not members of the United  Nations were subject to consultation with the  respective governments, The subject had been  included in the agenda of the Administrative  Commission, because no information had yet been  received on the progress of such consultations,
(48) Tha proposal of the delegate of Japan, seconded  by the delegate of Ceylon, was adopted.
(49) Paragraph 3 was approved,
(50) The Commission went on to examine paragraph
(51) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) asked whether  the reduction of the United States contribution from
33.33% to 30% would affect the per capita  limitations,
(52) Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) said that  the ‘igures in paragraph 4 were correct in accordance  with the new United States percentage,
(53) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) asked whether the  figures would be affected by the fact that the United  States percentage would be 31% instead of 30% as a  result of the deletion of the Chinese contribution.
(54) Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) said that  it would be difficult to reply definitely, but he  thought there would be no alteration, because the  contributions of other Member States would be  increased at the same time,
(55) Paragraph 4 was approved.
(56) Paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 were approved without  comment and the Commission passed on to  paragraph 8,
(57) Mr. POHL (Union of South Africa) had no  objection to the proportion of 60% of the minimum  percentage assessment propored for Asscciate  Members but disapproved of their contributions  being accounted for as Miscellaneous Income.  Associate Members were a new feature of Unesco,  and in breaking new ground it was important to start  off with the right procedure, even if the initial sums  involved were small. He proposed that paragraph 8  should be amended by deleting the last five words  and substituting: "included for the purpose of  calculating the scale of contributions for Member
(58) The proposal was seconded by the delegate of  Belgium,
(59) Mr, SANDOVAL VALLARTA (Mexico) asked  for an explanation of paragraph 8, in which the    COMMISSION V-10  minimum contribution of Associate Members was  laid down as 60% of that of Member States.
(60) Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) said that  it was not possible to work out what 60% of the  minimum percentage of 0,04 would be until the  Unesco scales had been calculated on the basis of  the United Nations scale. For that reason the last  Conference had decided to exclude them from the  scale,
(61) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) reminded the  Commission that the question of Associate Members  would have to be examined again when another  document included on the Commission's agenda was  discussed. Could the decision they were about to  make prejudice that discussion?
(62) Mr. Haguiwara also wanted to know whether  adoption of the Suuth African proposal would mean  that Associate Members’ assessments would be  reduced to the basic percentage before the balance  was distributed amongst the Member States,
(63) Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) proposed  that discussion be postponed until the legal  implications had been investigated.
(64) Mr, POHL (Union of South Africa) did not  consider that the legal status of Associate Members  could be affected by the way in which their  contributions were dealt with,
(65) Mr, ARTHUR (United Kinglom) agreed with the  South African delegate. As to the financial  implications, it would have to be borne in mind that,  if the contributions were placed in Miscellaneous  Income pending calculation, they would not be made  use of until the succeeding financial period; and  that, if they were fitted into the Unesco scale, they  would cause a slight reduction in the figures which  had been approved for full Member States. The  amount involved, however, was s~ small that there  would be little difference either way.
(66) Mr, HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) poirted out  that, even if the contributions were placed under  Miscellaneous Income, they would be used in the  current financial period, since allowance was made  for them in the budget.
(67) The proposal of the Fouth African delegate was  put to the vote and rejected by 18 votes to 10 with
5 abstentions,
(68) Paragraph 8 wns approved.
(69) Mr. CHEN YUAN (China), observing that there  was no reference in the report of the Contributions  Committee to the statement by his delegation on  China's right to vote, wanted to know when that  question would be discussed by the Commission.
(70) Mr. STERNBERCER (Chairman of the Committee  on Contributions) replied that the Committee had  decided not to deal with the question of the right to  vote. In reply to a question from the CHAIRMAN,  the reference in the First Progress Report of the  - 559 -   v-10 ADMINISTRATIVE  Contributions Committee concerned the possibility  of that Committee pronouncing on certair financial  conditions on which the right to vote might depend.
(71) After some discussion, in which it was  explained by the representative of the Secretariat  that the question of China's right to vote was a  matter relating to Unesco's Constitution and could  only be dealt with by the full Commission and the  Plenary Conference, Miss LAISE (United States of  America) proposed that the question of the right to  vote of all members whose rights were under  consideration should be included in the agenda of  the next meeting of the Commission,
(72) Mr. SOLDATOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics), referring to his previous statement,  said that the Soviet delegation did not recognize any  lawful representative of China in Unesco. He asked  if the States to which the United States delegate's  proposal referred could be named, and a vote taken  on each one separately.
(73) Miss LAISE (United States of America)  amended her proposal as follows: "That the question  of voting rights for China should be taken up on  Monday morning. "
(74) The proposal of the United States delegate was  adopted by 28 votes to 3, with 2 abstentions,
(75) Mr, VILLALON GALDAMES (Chile) proposed  that the Secretariat should obtain the necessary  information and draw up a chart comparing the  contributions made to Unesco by Member States and  their respective national incomes and, if possible,  another chart comparing the contributions with the  currency availabilities of each State. For many  countries, he feared, the payment of their  contribution to Unesco meant doing without a new  school, a hospital or a tractor.
(76) Mr. FARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) said that  it hd been stressed during past Conferences and in  the present Contributions Committee that Unesco did  not possess (ne machinery for examining the  statistical data necessary to establish the capacity  of a Member State to pay its contributions. The -  respcnsibility was left to the United Nations  statistical office and every eflort was made by  Unesco to see that Member States knew where to  submi* their problems in that field. Several  members had already availed themselves of the  services of that office.
(77) Mr. VILLALON GALDAMES (Chile), explaining  his proposal, said that, as Unesco had to be paid in  hard currency, the currency availability of each  Member State or, in other words, the dollars at its  disposal, should be known,
(78) Miss LAISE (United States of America) asked  whether the delegate of Chile could hold back his  proposal until a further report had been received  from the Contributions Committee, since the question  of setting up a committee to deal with such problems  was under discussion,    COMMISSION
(78) It was agreed that the delegate of Chile should  submit his proposal in writing to the Rapporteur of  the Contributions Committee and refer it back to the  Commission if he was dissatisfieu with the action  taken.
(80) The Commission next examined the Report of  the Committee on Contributions on Methods of  Financing the Budget (document 8C/ADM/32),
(81) Mr. BOW (Rapporteur of the Committee on  Contributions) said that the Committee had considered  how the budget for 1955-56 could be financed and had  agreed that the two principal methods were: (1) in  accordance with the Financial Regulations and (2)  under special financing measures. It had decided to  recommend the first method in principle but to point  out that there would be a low assessment for 1955-56  compared with 1957-58 and to suggest that the  Commission might wish to consider holding over all  or part of the contributions received from new  members in 1953-54, to avoid such exceptional  fluctuations in contributions.
(82) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) moved that the  budget be financed in accordance with the Financial  Regulations in practice as well as in principle. The  practice suggested by the Committee in paragraph 6  of the document would not benefit Member States in  the long run, and in the view of the United Kingdom  delegation the variation was not large enough to  justify a departure from the Financial Regulations,
(83) The proposal of the United Kingdom delegate to  delete the words "in principle’ in the second line of  paragraph 6 (page 3, English text) was seconded by  the delegate of Australia and supported by the  delegates of Belgium and Mexico.
(84) Mr. POHL (Union of South Africa) said that it  was incumbent on the Organization to apply the  Financial Regulations, which were the same for all  Specialized Agencies and which had been drawn up  for good reasons, The spreading over of contributions  was less important than adherence to the Regulations  and, moreover, involved two dangers: first, it might  induce those framing the budget to exceed priorities;  and, secondly, it might make Member States less  concerned about paying their contributions,
(85) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) said that  he had not had time to study the document in detail,  for it had just been distributed, Nor did he know  what the Committee on Contributions or the Advisory  Committee on Programme and Budget had decided  should be done with the contributions of Stzctes  admitted during the financial years 1953-54. There  were several possible courses:  To use those funds to finance 1954 expenditure.  To redistribute them amones’ Member States,  To set up a special fund, to be put at the disposal  of the Executive Board for unforeseen requirements,
(86) Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) said that  the contributions from new Member States for 1953-54,  as set out in paragraph (b) on page 3 of the document,  amounted to $1, 228, 216. If the recommendation of  - 560 -   ADMINISTRATIVE  the Contributions Committee were adopted, that sum,  together with the other items in paragraph (b), would  be deducted from the total budget estimates before  calculating the assessments of Member States.
(87) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) wanted to  know whether there were any provisions 1n the  regulations for the use of those funds, or whether  exceptional income could he used as was thought fit.
(88) Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) quoted  Financial Regulation 5. 2, in accordance with which  the sum in question, together with miscellaneous  revenue, would be deducted from the budget  appropriations for 1955-56.
(89) Mr, CARRERA MOLINA (Guatemala) proposed  that the miscellaneous revenue and budget surpluses  mentioned on page 3 of the document should be ear-  marked for financing technical aid and covering the  expenses of technical experts attached to  institutions within the technical aid programme,
(90) Mr, KOTSCHNIG (United States of America)  asked whether, without prejudice to the proposal of  the United Kingdom delegate, the Guatemalan  delegate could recommend that for the time being  the sum in question should be placed in a reserve  fund, the purposes of which should be decided by the  Contributions Committee in accordance with the  Regulations, and might include, for example,  repayment of the loan from the French Government  for the new headquarters building.
(91) The CHAIRMAN said that the wording of the  Guatemalan delegate's proposal referred to  miscellaneous revenue and budget surpluses, but  made no mention of contributions from new  members.
(92) Mr. CARRERA MOLINA (Guatemala) accepted  the suggestion of the United States delegate that the  Contributions Committee should decide the purposes  for whichthe funds in question should be used,
(93) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) said that  he had had in mind a proposal similar to that of the  Guatemalan delegate, which he was seconding,  pending consideration by the Contributions Commit-  tee of possible uses of those funds other than their  redistribution amongst the Member States,
(94) Mr. BRICHET (France) said that his delegation  too was not in favour of redistributing funds amongst  the Member States, It might be a good 1dea to set  up a reserve fund for repayment of the loan made to  Unesco for the building of its new headquarters.
(95) Mr, HAGUIWARA (Japan) emphasized that the  last sentence of paragraph 6 indicated that many  members of the Committee on Contributions had  considered placing the whole or part of those  $1,228,216 in a reserve fund. Moreover, it  constituted exceptional revenue. As the main  problem facing the current session of the Conference  was the remodelling of the programme, and as the  Executive Board had been in favour of stabilizing    COMMISSION v-10  continuing activities and extending activities in  Member States, 1t might be advisable to use those  credits for strengthening that part of the programme,
(96) Mr, POHL (Union of South Africa) was doubtful  whether the action being considered was not  contravening the Financial Regu'ations, which gave  specific instructions. It would be more correct to  discuss the matter in connexion with a proposal to  amend the Regulations,
(97) Mr, HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) said that,  while the statement made by the South African  delegate was to the point, it had been the practice in  the past two financial years for the Conference to  make decisions which were contrary to the provisions  of the Financial Regulations. The summary records  of the seventh session of the Conference would show  that it had done so to finance the budgets for 1952,
1953 and 1954.
(98) Mr, POHL (Union of South Africa) cited the legal  axiom that the fact of having made a mistake once  was no justification for doing so again,
(89) Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) pointed out  that the Financial Regulations were not part of  Unesco's Constitution: they were drawn up by the  Conference and could therefore be amended by at.
(100) Mr, BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) explained  that he was not thinking of any illegal! step, It was  because the Conference vas entirely free to decide  how funds would be used that he had taken the hberty  of seconding that proposal.
(101) Mr. VILLALON GALDAMES (Chile) suggested  that the Guatemalan delegate's proposal might be  amended to include also the other item given on page
3 (Assessments on new Member States), in which  case the total obtained would be $2,221, 430.
(102) Mr, CARRERA MOLINA (Guatemala) accepted  the suggestion of the delegate of Chile.
(103) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) supported  the proposal of the delegate vf Guatemala as amended  by the delegate of Chile,
(104) Mr. GIUSTINIANI (Italy), while favouring the  use of the funds to repay the debt to the French  Government, pointed out that unforeseen needs might  arise during the coming two years and that the final  decision should therefore be left to the next General  Conference,
(105) Mr. EL-ZAYAT (Egypt) supported the proposal  fo: a special reserve fund and the reference of the  question to the Committee on Cont :butions, to be  studied in consultation with the Direci>~ General.  He hoped that the Committee would, in particular,  examine ways of using the special fund to help  Unesco in projects connected with technical aid  during the coming two years.
(106) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the Contii-  butions Committee would have ro report back to  - 561 -   v-1l ADMINISTRA  the Commission since it had no direct contact with  the General Conference.
(107) Mr. PRATY (Australia) asked whether the  proposal of the Guatemalan delegate was an  amendment to that of the United Kingdom delegate  or a substantive proposal.
(108) Mr. ARTHUR {Umted Kingdom) said that the  Commission had been asked to make recommend-  ations to the Plenary Conference on the financing  cf the budget, The Guatemalan delegate's proposal  appeared to be 1n direct opposition to that of the  United Kingdom delegation, and the suggested  submission to the Contributions Committee would  delay presentaticn of recommendations to the  Plenary Conference. He proposed that a decision  should be taken immediately.  TIVE     COMMISSION
(199) Mr. MAHZU (Assistant Director-General)  wondered how a special reserve fund could be set  up without a specific object. Moreover, it was  difficult to recommend that such a fund should be  used for any narticular project, Finally, the  Committee on Contributions could hardly make  recommendations on that subject - for which the  Prograrame and Budget Commission was responsible.  The proposal was vague, and serious doubts could  be ma-ntained as to the Contributions Committee's  competence in the matter,
(110) It was finally decided, on a motion of Mr,  FORSYTH (Mew Zealand), to adjourn the discussion  untii the following meeting,  The meeting rose at 7 p. m.  ELEVENTH MEETING
22 November 1950 at 10 aan.  ( harman  IRIBUTE TO THE MEMORY OF Mr de THIBAULT (OF THE  BELGIAN DLLEGATION)
(1) The CHAIRMAN said 1t was his painful duty to  announce the sudden death, in tragic circumstances,  of Mr. de Thibault, of the Belgian delegation.
(2) The Commission rose as a gesture of respect.
(3) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) expressed his  deizgation's appreciation of the gesture.  QUESTION RAISED BY THE ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON  PROGRAMME AND BUDGET IN COMENION WITH THE  DUTIES OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD
(4) The CHAIRMAN said that he had been asked by  the Commission to refer to the Executive Board,  through the General Committee, a question r.ised  by the Advisory Committee about ways and raeans of  reducing the burden on the Board. The General  Committee had said that the Director-General had  peen asked to prepare a report on the matter, also  that the question could more app.opriatzly be  referred to the new Board clected 1n accordance  with the recently adopted amendments to Article V  of the Constitution, The General Cornmittee would  take the necessary action to that end when the new  Board was in being.    - 562 -  Mr. BEEBY (New Zealand)  ITEM 9.3 OF REVISED AGENDA LEGAL QUESTIONS (document
8C, JUR- 2: Second Report. of the Legal Committee)
(5) Mr. BAUGNIET (Rapporteur of the Legal  Committee) stated that, at 11s meeting of 19 November
1654, the Legal Committee had completed the draft-  ing of amendments to Article V of the Constitution,  and of the alterations in Rules 95, 95a and 9% of the  Rules of Procedure of the General Conference which  were necessary as a result of the new arrangements.
(6) The Committee had agreed that thers was no  contradiction or opposition between those Rules as  amended and the Constitution or the Rules of  Procedure, and had no comments to make from a  substantive point of view,
(7) Regarding the wording, the Committee had  merely collated the texts in the three languages, and  had deleted the word "remodel" from paragraph C.13  of Article V,
(8) The Committee's Rapporteur then read out the  texts in question in their new form.
(9) Mr. SANDOVAL VALLARTA (Mexico), on behalf  of his delegation, proposed the adoption of the Legal  Committee's report.
(10) Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) said that he did not  consider the French word "portion" a particularly  legal expression, and suggested replacing it by the  word "durée".
(11) Mr, BAUGNIET (Rapporteur) explained that the  word had been used because it occurred in the