PROGR *MME AND  that it was 1myossible to take a decision. Italy and  Lebanon, in particular, had inaintained that point of  view, and Mr. Fawzi endorsed it.
(62) Mr. NIELSEN (Denmark) thought that the  Commission should express its wishes to the  Director-General, to help him in the establishment  of future programmes, but without going into details,  Any suggestion of percentages would mean a recasting  of the programme, if it referrcd to the 1955-56  period, and would in any case involve a lot of  difficult work, It was not possible to go much  further than the Executive Board's proposal did in  stating that the greater part of funds shor'd be  devoted to special activities, A numerical  definitinrn would be harmful to the method of  the Conference.
(63) Sir Charles WEPSTER (United Kingdom)  supported the delegate of Denmark. The Advisory  Committee would report on the subject with reference  to the discussion of the 1957-58 programme, not  the 1955-56 one,
(64) Mr. KABIR (India) supported the delegate of  Denmark. He reminded the meeting that no General  Conference could bind a succeeding General  Conference by any ofits decisions,
(65) Mr. BARBEY (Switzerland), rcferring to  M'. Maheu's suggestion that discussion on the  percentages to be fixed for general and special  activities should be postponed, submitted a  procedural motion 1n that sense.
(66) The procedural motion was adopted.  BUDGET     COMMISSION IV-7
(67) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Chairman of the  Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget),  having asked what the Commission *ad decided with  regard to referring the inatter to his Committee,  Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General), inter-  vening purely on a procedural question, replied that  the Advisory Committee had been charged by the  Programme and Budget Commission to report on  the cntire substance of the matter. That would take  account of the report of the working party on  decentralization, but did not deal with the question  of proportions.
(68) The Commission approved that conclusion.
(69) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive  Board) said that the competent committee of the  Executive Board had spent a lo‘ of timo on National  Con.missions, He hoped to present a resolution  shortly.
(70) It was agreed that the working party would  cover the other subjects, and to defer the matter  of National Commissions until the Executive Board  was able to produce its considered views,
(71) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) wished to refer  at that stage, on the question of decentralization, to  the effects of General Conference meetings outside  Paris. He asked whether that subject could be  included in the agenda of the working party.
(72) The CHAIRMAN replied that it had already  been included.  The meeting rose at 12.40 p.m.  SEVENTH MEETING
22 November 1954 at 19 a. m.  Charman: Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland)
(1) The CHAIRMAN announced the death of Mr. de  Thibault, a member of the Belgian delegation, on
19 November. He expressed the condolences of the  Commission to the Belgian delegation, and requested  the latter to convey ‘he Commissionts sympathy to  Mr. de Thibault's family. He asked delegates to  observe one minute*s silence.  ITEM 8.4.8 OF THE REVISED AGENDA: TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
(2) The CHAIRMAN asked members of the Commission  to proceed to the exam.nation of documents 8C/5  Annex VIII, 8C/3 and 8C/3 Add., and called  upon the Director-General,
(3) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that there had  been many important developments in the admin:-  stration of technical assistance during the last year.  It was the opinion of the Secretariat that the changes  would represent a definite improvement. The most  important was the trend towards country planning,  which meant that technical assistance would be  given to countries according to their desires and  needs. Every effort would be made to keep the  costs of administration low and to strengthen the  scheme through collaboration with other agencies.
(4) The Commission would have to review the  technical quality of the programme and recommend  to the General Conference the resolutions  which should be passed.  - 301 -   IV-7 PROGRAMME AND
(5) Mr. ADISESHIAH (Director, Department of  Technical Assistance) reminded the Commission  that the technical assistance scheme was in its fifth  year and had still the full and continuing support of  the governments concerned. Seventy-two countries  were receiving assistance and the amount spent  from the Technical Assistance Fund had risen from  $20,000,000 in 1950 to $25,000,000 in 1954. The  United States contribution to the fund still remained  at about 60% of the total, in spite of the fact that  some countries had substantially increased their  contributions and new countries were contributing.  From the Technical Assistance Fund, Unesco had  at its disposal the sum of $2,500, 000 for its  technical assistance programme in 1954, Up to  date, 300 requests for assistance had been received  from 48 countries, 44 basic agreements on  technical assistance had been signed and 57 projects  were under way in 37 countries. Three hundred and  fifty experts had been appointed, of whom 140 were  in the field, and of 329 fellowships granted, the  holders of 82 were still studying, whereas 230 had  finished their studies and returned home, where the  majority were now employed. $1,500,000 worth of  equipment had been supplied and a further  $2,700, 000 worth would be supplied under the 1955  programme,
(6) Unesco was providing assistance to 44 countries  and had five regional programmes, which in 1955  would require, for a minimum programme, the  sum of $2,700,000 or, for a maxiiinm programme,  $3,200,000, Three hundred and ninety thousand  dollars would be required for headquarters  administration. In the programme of technical  assistance, the proportion spent on education and  science would remain the same, approximately  two-thirds being spent on education and one-third  on the natural sciences.
(7) The programme was divided into six major  fields. The technical assistance programme  attached the utmost importance to primary and  secondary school education. Priority was given to  those branches over fundamental education because  the regular programme of Unesco took responsibility  for fundamental education, and Unesco's campaign  for compulsory fundamental education had started  bearing fruit.
(18) Unesco was associating in the field of funda-  mental education in three different ways. It was  running centres in 9 countries; it was carrying out  campaigns for fundamental education in 9 countries;  and it was co-operating in the same work under the  overall programme of other United Nations agencies.
(9) With regard to technical education, Unesco was  carrying out projects in eight countries under its  technical assistance and regular programmes, by  helping to reorganize existing educational systems  or to establish pilot technical education training  centres.
(10) The work of the Technical Assistz.ace Depart-  ment in the field of science was, of necessity, a  continuing work. It consisted of work in the field of  scientific and technical documentation and in the  field of scientific research. It was proposed to set  up four documentation centres in the four main  regions of the world in 1955 and to continue work on  seven major projects of scientific research.  BUDGET     - 302 -  COMMISSION
(11) There were six main characteristics of the  programme for scientific teaching. In the first  place, the programme would be mainly a continuing  one. The reasons for that were not only financial,  but followed from the size and nature of the  programme envisaged, Secondly, it was a  co-ordinated programme, because assistance would  be given to carry out the basic activities of the  Organization, because it was necessary to mobilize  the resources of Unesco as a whole and not only  those of a particular department and, finally,  because it involved other United Nations agencies.  Thirdly, it was a programme with limited and  concrete objectives. All the proposed projects had  a time-limt for the giving of assistance and, in  every project as yet undertaken, the government  concerned had made plans for follow-up work on  the termination of the period of technical assistance,  Fourthly, it was a programme which contained  possibilities for evaluation, The problem of  evaluation was difficult, as it was not easy to  isolate the United Nations investment in a project  from the development of the project as a whole,  and also the results of a project were often not  measurable, However, a rough and ready  evaluation of every project had been completed with  the assistance of the Department of Social Sciences.  The most difficult problem in evaluation was how to  introduce an element of objectivity, for which facts  and not opinions were required, In order to obtain  that objectivity, it had been decided to establish a  base line when starting a new project and a control  situation for continuing projects. In addition, care  was being taken to formulate the type of questions  for questionnaires which would furnish facts. All  the work on evaluation would be done at no cost.  A fifth characteristic of the programme was *hat  each project was to be continued as a training  project. The last characteristic was flexibility.  The three forms of technical assistance, through  experts, equipment and fellowships, were to be  flexible in form,allowing for some money to be  spent by the recipient country on exchange schemes.  {12) In the past, the procedure for technical  assistance had been for countries to request  assistance and for Unesco to decide what was to be  done with the funds allotted by the Economic and  Social Council. New legislation had been passed  by the Council to meet the requirements of the new  country programme. From 1956 onwards the  procedure would be to tell each country a year  ahead how much money it would te allocated for the  following year. Governments would then decide  how the money was to be used. Unesco was firmly  and unanimously in support of that new procedure.  In addition, beginning in 1956, requests would be  approved by a Technical Ase:stance Committee  and by the Economic and Social Council  which meant that they would be subject to  intergovernmental control. Financial regulations  had also been altered. 2 new technical  assistance capital reserve fund was to be  founded during 1954, 1955 and 1956, which  would ultimately provide greater stability  for techmcal assistance projects. During  those three years there would be less  money available for technical assistance.   PROGRAMME AND
(13) There would also be a change in the locai cost  of schemes. In the future, 50% of the per diem  zllowance for experts would be paid by the recipient  country direct to the Secretary-General, and the  Organization would then be responsible for paying  all the allowances and expenses of the expert.
(14) Mr. Adiseshiah paid tribute to all the experts  in the field who had devoted themselves to their work.  Their quality was proved by the fact that the  governments requested the extension of the terms  of their service. The machinery of recruitment  was also improving, owing mainly to the efforts of  the countries making the largest contributions. He  felt, however, that experts should not be taken only  from uonor countries, and that Unesco should try to  discover talent and put it to use.
(15) There were some major shortcomings in the  programme. In the first place there was the problem  of timing. Technical assistance was absolutely  useless if not given in proper time, Secondly. there  was the problem of adequate planming. It was  necessary to see Liat sufficient time was given to  plan a programme. Thirdly, ti.ere was the problem  of co-ordinating between agencies, between the  Departments of Unesco, and co-ordinating the  resources of the governments concerned.
(16) With regard to headquarters costs, the sum of  $390,000 for 1955 was approximately the same sum  as had been required in 1954. The preslem of  overwork would be serious. The country planning  programme would call for a reorgamzation of the  Department at headquarters, and emphasis would  be put on the responsibilities which would be given to  the four area offices. Headquarters would then be  responsible for assisting governments in making  plans, in assisting experts, supe.vising projects,  and evaluating them.
(17) Mentioning that three heads of teacher training  missions were present at the meeting, Mr. Adiseshiah  suggested that the Commission might like to hear  their comments on what was being done in their field,
(18) Mr. GARRIDO (Head of the Unesco Mission “to  Uruguay) said that in February 1252 the Uruguayan  Government had asked Unesco to send out a mission  to organize a Scientific, Technical and Economic  Documentation Centre in Montevideo.
(19) In October 1953 Dr. Garrido had arrived in  Montevideo to carry out the project, and the present  state of the work was as follows:
(20) With regard to the union catalogue of Uruguayan  libraries, 19 volumes listing the books in 46 libraries  had been published, and work in connexion with the  remaining 20 libraries was in progress.
(2i) A catalogue had been issued of scientific,  technical and economic reviews published in Uruguay  since 1850,
(22) An analytico-bibliographical bulletin, to give  other countries information on scientific and  technological developments in Uruguay, was being  prepared.
(23) The bibliographical service included some  hundred bibliographical reviews and a large number  of general reference works.
(24) The photographic service was working fully.
(25) The translation service was now fully  equipped for functioning.  - 303 -  BUDGET     COMMISSION IV-7
(26) The Centre was installed in the National  Library building, and the equipment sent by Unesco,  although it had not all arrived, was on its way. At  present four persons were at work, instructing  the Uruguayan staff,
(27) Mr. SABAS OLAIZOLA (Head of the Unesco  Mission to Ecuador), referring to Unesco proje~t
1504 - Primary and Secondary Education (Teacher  Training) - said that it was started in Ecuador in  April 1952, with the object of providing advice and  assistance in the reorgamzation and development of  teacher training.
(28) The mission, with one expert, began its work  in the two Teacher Training Colleges of Quito.
(29) From the start, the authorities and local staff  showed a desire for concrete achievements. It was  then that the mission evolved a plan to reform the  demonstration schools attached to the teacher  training colleges, believing that they determined  the objectives of the teaching profession, cultural  callings, and the scientific means of improving the  nation's manhood and its educational policy. That  important problem was the central factor in  Unesco's work of assistance.
(30) Intensive cultural training was advocated for  teachers, but it should be in direct relation to the  development of the schools, since the teacher  training college was responsible for that work.
(31) In October 1952 modern teaching methods  were introduced into the curriculum of the teacher  traimng college.
(32) During the 1952-53 school year, the four  reformed attached schools aroused great hopes,  and in June 1953 their achievements were considered  at a seminar, where the masters who took part in  the experiment submitted more than 40 papers, In  the following year, modernized schools were  organized in remote parts of Ecuador, being  started by pupil-teachers.
(33) Later, at the reques: of the Government,  Unesco supplied two science experts for the teacher  training colleges.
(34) Two modern science laboratories had been  installed in the Quito teacher training colleges; and  ten schools attached to the four urban teacher  training colleges in Ecuador applied the project of  the mission. The latter had been requested by the  authorities to extend its activity to rural areas,  and would do so when more experts were available.
(35) The mission's permanent aim was the  foundation of new teacher training colleges.
(36) Mr. TURNER (Head of the Unesco Mission to  Guatemala) said that in 1951 the Guatemalan  Government asked for Unesco's co-operation in a  programme of training for industrial occupations,  In the following year, five technical assistance  experts joined the mission.
(37) In 1952 the Committee of Industrial Education  of Guatemala was established by presidential  decree, with the Technicai Assistance Mission  acting as adviser to it. The following important  developments then took place: (1) A better  selection of pupils for the industrial schools; (2) an  improvement in education, inspection and direction  in industrial schools; (3) the mission and its local   IV-7 PROGRAMME AND  collaborators produced more than 2, 000 job and  instruction sheets; (4) more than a bundred teachers  and inspectors were trained, in groups ur individually,
(5) nineteen persons studied abroad and attended a  camp connected with the mission's work; (6) Unesco  supplied educational equipment and material to the  value of $27,000; (7) a national plan was approved  for clerical and technical training; (8) the number  of machine shops in the industrial institute  increased considerably,
(38) In August, the Government approved a special  credit of 100, 000 quetzales to expand the programme  in 1955. It requested the mission to remain during
1956 and until the country had completed its  programme for training Guatemalan staff. The  Government also asked for Une scn's co-operation  in the production of industrial training material  and in the training of instructors,
(39) The CHAIRMAN felt that, after the statements  by Mr. Adiseshiah and the speakers who followed  him, he could express the satisfaction felt by  everyone 1n realizing that technical assistance  possessed such an effective instrument for the  carrying out of its mission.
(40) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Chairman of the  Advisory Committee on Prcgramme and Budget)  said that he would be very brief, and hoped that his  brevity would reflect the satisfaction of the Advisory  Committee with regard to document 8C/5 Annex VII.  At its twenty-sixth meeting, the Advisory Committee  had unanimously adopted the follcwing resolution:  "The Advisory Committee on Programme and  Budget, having considered Annex VIII of the proposed  programme and budget, and having taken into account  the oral commentary and explanations provided on  behalf of the Director-General, commends the  document to the General Conference as a useful and  lucid summary of Unesco's technical assistance  activities, whose main trends appear to the  Committee to be satisfactory.  The Committee approves the draft resolutions  contained in the report and recommends their  adoption by the General Conference, with the slight  reservation that the word reduced should be  replaced by limited in the preamble to draft  resolution 8,52."
(41) The CHAIRMAN said that nineteen members  of the Commission had intimated their wish to speak  in the general discussion. Recalling that the  Commission had already held a discussion on the  programme as a whole, he wondered whether it  would not be advisable to pass immediately to an  examination of the resolutions formulated on pages
5 and 6 of document 8C/£ Annex VIII, allowing  delegates every latitude to comment during the  discussion, He asked for the Commission's opinion  on that point.
(42) Mr. LAUGIER (France) thought that, as  technical assistance was one of the main  problems with which the United Nations  had to deal, it would be a mistake  to curtail the general discussion on that  point.  - 304 -     BUDGET COMMISSION
(43) Mr. FAUBLAS (Haiti) agreed with the  French delegate.
(44) The CHAIRMAN asked the Commission to  vote on the matter,
(45) By 29 votes in favour, 6 against, and 3  abstentions, 1t was decided to pursue the general  discussion.
(46) Mr. LAUGIER (France) recalled that the  position adopted by the French Government was  entirely favourable to technical assistance, and  that it had decided to give 1t unreserved support.
(47) The French delegate, paying tribute to the  country which had taken the initiative in ithe work,  described it as the United Nations! workshop of  hope.
(48) Nevertheless, Mr. Laugier wished to make  two comments. In the first piace, he deprecated  the uptimism displayed in all the documents  relating to technical assistance; it seemed to him  exaggerated and out of place, The French  delegation had studied the progress of a technical  assistance project from the moment it was drawn  up to the time when it was put into operation, there  had been no fewer than twenty-four international  stages in its journey, from the various technical  assistance services to the commissions and  committees of Cues. o's General Conference, then  to TAB, TAC, the different United Nations organs,  the Co-ordination Committee and finally, it  seemed, to new committees set up for the purpose  of evaluation, To all those should be added  consultations with the various Specialized Agencies.
(49) The French delegate thought that the  tentacles of official bureaucracy might thus well  paralyse work undertaken, and he was prepared to  ask that a new committee be set up for the  purpose of simplifying the machinery.
(50) Mr. Laugier also deplored the fact that  repoits made by technical assistance missions  were kept strictly confidential, Distinguished men  were enlisted to carry out those missions, which  were financed by technical assistance funds, but  their work produced no reverberations. In that  connexion the French delegate mentioned Sir  Charles Darwin's mission to Thailand, the results  of which would be well worth publicizing in all  quarters concerned with fundamental education,  He therefore hoped that the missions’ reports  would in future be published for Member States,  and given wider currency.
(51) In reply to the CHAIRMAN, Mr. LAUGIER  (France) said that he did not propose to submit a  resolution forthwith on the two points to which he  had referred, but that he reserved the right to do  so, if necessary, after the general discussion.
(52) Mr. TREJOS DITTEL (Costa Rica) said that  his Government had asked Unesco for technical  assistance in 1950 to undertake investigations into  the educational system and evaluate the work  carried out and the results achieved in his country  during more than a hundred years of primary  teaching, sixty years of it free and comoulsory at   PROGRAMME AND  the State's expense. In October 1951 the first  members of the mission arrived to work on pilot  projects for rural and fundamental education, and  on a teacher training project.
(53) The rural education pilot project was carried  out in two different areas - one in the highlands and  the other 1n the plains, Two technicians with local  assistants were in charge of the scheme, which  operated in eleven communities in the highlands  and in thirteen in the plains, Work on it had started  in 1952 and was pursued in co-operation with the  minmstries concerned and the Commuttee for  Co-oj eration with Unesco. The result was a series  of constructional achievements, such as new wards  for the hospital, repairing of water mains, local  roads, sanitary installations, etc. The Inter-  American Technical Service for Agricultural  Co-operation and other organizations in Costa Rica  also collaborated.
(54) An inten‘ ive campaign was carried through to  improve primary education, the number of teachers  had risen from 65 in 1952 to 83 in 1953 and, in the  last period of 1954 to 102, They were given a series  of special preparatory courses at seminars, held  under the joint auspices of the Ministry of Education  and the technical assistance experts. Thanks to that  co-opel tion, the percentage of pupils promoted had  increased from 81% in 1952 to 90. 44% in 1953.
(55) The experts had carried out detailed surveys  of secondary education and their recommendations  were being studied.
(56) The mission had also co-operated, usefully and  effectively, in the field of teacher training.
(57) The CHAIRMAN reminded delegates that  special projects should be mentioned only in so far  as they contributed to the development of the  general discussion.
(58) Mr. TREJOS DITTEL (Costa Rica) wished to  be extremely brief, but felt nevertheless that he  must make some observations with regard to the  technical assistance Services.
(59) He considered technical assistance to be the  most important form of aid that Unesco or any other  United Nations organization could give to Member  States. At the same time he understood that the  service should be carefully planned; its results  depended nat only on the outcome of specific projects,  but on the prestige of the organization providing  the service.
(60) It was essential that in that matter Unesco  should assemble all the factors essential to success.  Missions should be well integrated and experts  selected who had a knowledge of the social and  cultural surroundings in which they were going  to work, etc.
(61) Another aspect of ‘“e question to which he  wished to draw attention was that of the actual  concept of techrical assistance. As he saw it, such  assistance was not given by Unesco; it constituted  action by the governments themseives. The experts  in a m ssion were simply persons collaborating, in  each country, with the ministries concerned,
(62) Yet another problem was that of supervising  technical assistance missions. Unesco should  evolve an effective method of superintending the  - 305 -     BUDGET COMMISSION IV-7  experts' work, and there the Organization could  benefit from the experience of other international  bodies such as the Organization of American States,  which in certain technical aid projects maintained,  apart from the experts, supervisory units in given  areas. Unesco would do even better work if 1t  established such units.
(63) Lastly, the Costa Rican delegate considered  that the technical assistance services deserved the  attention of the Conference; any efforts that could  be made to increase the funds ear-marked for them  would redound not only to the benefit of Member  States, hut to the credit of the Organization.
(64) Mr. SHARIF (Pakistan) said that, during the  four to five years for which technical assistance  had existed, he had watched the struggle between  Unesco and the Economic and Social Council over  its scope, He had been glad to see that the  Executive Board and the Director-General, when  attending the Economic and Social Council  meetings, had so strongly supported the idea of  extending its scope to include educational and social  progress in the field of technical assistance. He  hoped that the Director-General would continue his  efforts to brocden the interpretation of educational  development.
(65) He approved the two trends which were  apparent in the programme for 1955-56, namely,  the emphasis which was being put on the needs of  Member States and on the idea that technical  assistance was a two-way process.
(66) He thought that more care should be taken in  the selecticn of experts. Before an expert was  appointed, Unesco should ascertain that he was  willing to accept the conditions in the country to  which he was to be sent, that he had the necessary  mental flexibility to accept local conditions of work  and that he was willing to stay at least three years.  In addition, Unesco should make certain, before  granting technical assistance, that the government  of the country concerried had made plans for a  follow-up programme.
(67) With regard co projects, the technical  assistance project .n geophysics in Pakistan was  now completed and the Pakistan Government was  ready to accept foreign students at the observatory
1h Quetta. Secondly, he had visited some  Pakistani students at the Fundamental Education  Centre at Patzcuaro, and had concluded that such  a centre was extremely useful for making  international contacts. More emphasis should be  laid on the acceptance of foreign students in  national centres.
(68) He concluded by congratulating the Department  of Technical Assistance on its splendid achievement,  and wished it every success.
(69) Mr. MENDIS (Ceylon) paid tribute to the  experts of the Fundamental Education Project at  Minneriya. He drew attention to pages 19 to 21 of  document 8C/5 Annex VIII, which dealt with that  project. No doubt existed in Ceylon concerning  the permanent value of the project, Next  year, the Department of Rural Development  in Ceylon would take over the Fundamental  Education Centre. There was already a   IV-8 PROGRAMME AND  Co-ordinating Committee of Secretaries to ensure  continuity,
(70) He had been interested ir the remarks made by  the delegate of Pakistan that a project shculd not  >nly be useful to the country concerned but should
2 used for training purposes for people of other  nationalities. The Ceylonese delegation would  welcome educators from other countries at  Minneriya.
(71) The CHAIRMAN proposed that members of the  Commission should collectively express their  admiration and gratitude for the work accomplished  by the Technical Assistance Department, as  described by Mr, Adiseshiah.
(72) Approved.
(73) Mr. FAUBLAS (Haiti) said that, in the opinion  of his delegation, Unesco seemed to tackle too many  problems at the same time; before embarking on  new enterprises, it would perhaps have been wise to  concentrate resources and efforts on fundamental  education and on primary schooling 1n town and  country. Without losing sight of its aim of creating  an intellectual élite in every country, the  Orgamzation should before all else enable the  masses to approach nearer to that élite.
(74) With regard to technical assistance, the  Haitian delegate thought that Unesco's first task was,  not to try to satisfy all the demands made upon it by  Member States, but to decide which States most  needed such assistance.
(75) The Haitian delegation would like to see carried  out, in other countries, the same kind of work as  BUD     GET COMMISSION  had been accomplished in Ecuador and Guateruala,
(76) Mr. RAADI (Iran) agreed with the French  delegate on the advisability of simplifying the  functioning of technical assistance,
(77) On the other hand, the Iranian delegate noted  with satisfaction that, in the technical assistance  programme for 1955-56, priority had been assigned  to primary and secondary education.
(78) He hoped that, in the scientific field, the  countries not directly associated with technical  assistance projects would be enabled to benefit from  the results obtained in other countries,
(79) Mr. Raadi welcomed the news that the  technical assistance programme was being rendered  more flexible, as his delegation had advocated on  more than one occasion.
(80) However, he thought mention should be made  of the fact that fellowships were still too few and  that, in order to enable their holders to derive the  maximum benefit from them, their duration should  be extended.
(81) With regard to the preparation of expeots, the  Iran:an delegate agreed with his colleague from  Pakistan, He thought, too, that missions should be  of longer duration, so as to enable experts to  adapt themselves, physically and mentally, to the  country in which they had to work.
(82) He also belicved that any general adoption of  the system whereby the governments shared the  expenses of the experts' visit would be unwise, as  it might oblige certain countries which were short  of funds to refuse the services of experts,  The meeting rose at 1 p.m.  EIGHTH MEETING
23 November 1954 at 1) a. m.  Chairman: Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland)
(1) The CHAIRMAN drew the attention of delegates  to the final report of the Expert Committee on  Education for International Understanding and Co-  operation which met in Paris from 25 October to
5 November 1954 (document 8C/DIV/80). He  proposed that that document be submitted tn the  Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget, so  that the latter might evolve concrete directives and  resolutions from it.
(2) Approved.  ITEM 8.4.8 OF REVISED AGENDA : TECHNICAL  ASSISTANCE (continued)
(3) Mr. AL-HILLI (Iraq), referring to technical  assistance projects in Iraq, said that there was need    - 306 -  for co-ordination between the agencies involved,  to prevent overlapping. A conference had been  held of representatives of those agencies together  with members of the ministries under whose  Jurisdiction the work on projects came, and plans  had been made to solve the problem of duplication,  The conference had also str:ssed the importance  of the national contribution to projects. He felt  that Unesco could encourage similar conferences  in other countries,
(4) It was the desire of his Government to have  further Unesco aid to expand the fundamental  education project in Iraq. Up to the present,  there was only one fundamental education centre,  which was purely regional and did not meet the  urgent needs of Iraq as a whole, If Unesco would