20 November 1954 at 10.30 a.m.  Chairman : Mr. BEEBY (New Zealand)  ITEM 9.4.4 OF REVISED AGENDA: CONTRIBL TIONS: SCALE,  CURRENCY AND COLLECTION OF MEMBER STATES  CONTRIBUTIONS (document 8C/ADM/31)
(1) The Commission proceeded to the study of the  second interim report of the Contributions  Committee (document 8C/ADM/31),
(2) Mr. BOW (Rapporteur of the Committee on  Contributions) said that his Committee had been  conscious of the desire of the Commission to  consider the Committee's report at an early stage.  It had also realized that it was under an obligation to  protect the financial structure of the Organization,  {3) In the first place, the Committee had decided  that the Unesco scale of contributions should be  based on the United Nations scale.
(4) As regarded the question of a ceiling on contri-  butions, the Committee had confirmed a decision  taken at the third session of the General Conference,  to the effect that, in principle, no single Member  State should contribute more than one-third of the  budget appropriations.
(5) The Committee had been of the opinion that the  question of minimum contributions should be  reconsidered at the ninth session of the General  Conference,
(6) It had decided that, for 1955-56, the principle  of a per capita limitation on the contributions by  Member States should apply.
(7) As regarded special percentages, the Committee  was recommending that Austria's theoretical  percentage for 1855-56 be 0.33%, on the under-  standing that in 1957-58 it should be brought up to  whatever was the fuli United Nations figure  recommended for that period, China had requested  ihat its contribution be reduced to $14,000 a year;  the Committee had decided that the matter ought to  be reconsidered at the ninth session of the General  Conference,
(8) The Committee had decided to recommend that  the contributions of Associate Members should be  assessed at 60% of the minimum percentage  assessment of full members,
(8) The above-mentioned principles had been applied  in the draft resolution to be found on page 5 of the  report, In paragraph 5 of the original draft  resclution, it had been stipulated that the United  States contribution should remain at 33, 33% of the  total, That stipulation had been deleted by the  Committee.
(10) Mr, DE LOS SANTOS (Philippines), seconded  by Mr. SANDOVAL VALLARTA (Mexico), then    fcrmally moved that the Commission should recommend  the General Conference to adopt the resolution on  page 5.
(11) Mr. SOLDATOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) considered that the percentage contributions  fixed for the USSR, the Ukraiman SSR and the  Byelorussian SSR were too high, and that, in  establishing them - as had occurred previously in the  United Nations - three facts had been overlooked:
(1) the enormous losses suffered by Soviet economy  during the second world war; (2) the difficulties  encountered by the USSR in procuring foreign  currency; (3) the contribution made by the USSR to  other Specialized Agencies or programmes of the  United Nations (such as ILO and the Expanded  Programme of Technical Assistance).
(12) The percentage contributions of the USSR and  the Ukrainian SSR should not exceed 10% and 1%  respectively, and that of the Byelorussian SSR should  be 0.45% of the total budget figure decided by Unesco,  There was, on the other hand, no reason for reducing  the contribution of the United States of America.
(13) His delegation accordingly requested the  Administrative Commission to bear that opinion in  mind, and moved the amendment of the draft  resoiution put forward by the Committee on  Contributions (document 8C/ADM/31).
(14) The Commission then proceeded to discuss the  resolution paragraph by paragraph.
(15) Paragraph 1 was adopted and the meeting  passed on to paragraph 2,
(16) Mr, DUDNIK (Ukrainian Soviet Sccialist Re-  public), referring to the remarks made by the delegate  of the USSR, emphasized tre difficulties his country  was experiencing in procuring foreign hard currency,
(17) He therefore asked that the scale of contributions  in use at the United Nations should not be taken as the  basis for the establishment of the scale of contributions  applicable to the Member States of Unesco.
(18) He thought it right that his country's contribution  should not exceed 1 per cent - the percentage  accepted by the International Labour Office.
(19) Mr. KAVALEVSKY (Byelorussian Soviet  Socialist Republic) endorsed the foregoing statement  and, for the same reasons as those given by Mr.  Soldatov, asked that his country's contribution should  no* exceed , 45 per cent.  ! He believed that every just measure was likely  to contribute tu international friendship and  - 551 -   v-9 ADMINISTRATIVE  understanding, even though it might apply in a field  that was not of the highest importance.
(21) Mr. BERREDC CARNEIRO (Brazil) admitted  the cogency of ithe arguments put forward by the  delegates of the USSR, the Ukrainian SSR and the  Byelorussian SSR; he was far from underestimating  the efforts those countries were making to redress  their national economies.
(22) However, it seemed to him that, in departing  from the strict principles on which the United  Nations scale was based, the Commission might find  itself on the dangerous ground of arbitrary notions  drawn from inaccurate statistics, -
(23) For identical reasons, the Brazilian delegation  would agree neither to the USSR proposal nor the  United Kingdon. proposal, wh- ‘ever their respective  intrinsic merits,
(24) The speaker wondered, however, whether it  would not be possible, for the period 1955-56, to  find a transitional compromise that would be satis-  factory to the Soviet delegation whilst taking account  of the United Nations scale, and to revert to the  question at a later date when that organization's  Committee on Contributions had had an opportunity  of reviewing the existing scale on the basis of new  data.
(25) The CHAIRMAN understood that the delegate of  the Soviet Union was proposing a formal amendment  to paragraph 2 of the resolution, to the effect that the  contributions of the USSR, the Ukrainian SSR and the  Byelorussian SSR should not represent more than
10%, 1% and 0. 45% respectively of the total  appropriations.
(26) Mr, BUSTAMANTE (El Salvador) admitted the  weight of the reasons adduced by the USSR, the  Ukrainian SSR and the Byelorussian SSR in support  of their claim for a reduction of their contributions.  He added, however, that a number of small  countries which were in a position to use similar  arguments had refrained from doing so because they  were aware that a request of that kind would be  disastrous for Unesco; it was to be hoped that the  three delegations which had made the request  realized its impljcations.
(27) Mr. POHL (Union of South Africa) said that he,  too, understood the reasons for the Soviet amendment,  It would, however, be a mistake to depart from the  United Nations scale without fuller information,
(28) Mr. STERNBERGER (Chairman of the  Committee on Contributions) said that the Committee  had considered the points raised by the Soviet  member of the United Nations Committee sn  Contriiritions (page 3 of the report). The  Committee had agreed with the view expressed in  the report by the United Nations Committee on  Contributions, namely, that dislocation of a  couatry's national economy due to the effects of war  was reflected in that country's statistics for the  national income, It had, therefore, by a majority  vote, rejected the Soviet motion,
(29) Mr. BARRIOS (Nicaragua) thought that the    COMMISSION  Soviet proposal was illogical and that the contributions  at present assigned should be maintained. If the  small countries of Central America were making  real sacrifices in order to pay their contributions,  there was no acceptable reason why countries  belonging to a continent in full economic development  and master of its own fate should not be able to do so,
(30) Mr. SOLDATOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) remarked that it was obvious that neither  the Committee on Contributions of the United Nations -  where the question of the contributions of the USSR  had been debated in great detail - nor Unesco's  Committee on Contributions had paid sufficient heed  to the difficulties encountered by his country in  procuring foreign currency, or to the fact that it was  already contributing considerable sums towards the  operation of other Specialized Agencies of the  United Nations.
(31) The Soviet Union was of course aware of the  economic and currency difficulties encountered by  other countries, especially the smaller ones. But it  trusted that the enormous difficulties and numerous  problems that its people had had to face as a result  of the second world war would be taken into account  by the Administrative Commission,
(32) The CHAIRMAN thereupon put to the vote the  Soviet amendment to paragraph 2 of the resolution,  The amendment took the form of a motion: "That the  Administrative Commission should recommend the  General Conference to decide that the contributory  shares of the USSR, the Ukrainian SSR and the  Byelorussian SSR should be fixed at 10%, 1% and
0. 45% respectively."
(33) The amendment was rejected by 37 votes to 3,  with 5 abstentions.
(34) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom! moved the  inclusion of a paragraph to the effect that the United  States contribution remain fixed at 33, 33%,
(35) In deciding on the scale of contributions, Unesco  should be guided by the highly technical work already  done in the United Nations Committee on Contributions,  That Committee had decided that the following factors  should be borne in mind in assessing a country's  contribution: (1) the comparative income per head;
(2) any temporary dislocation to its economy caused  by the second world war; and (3) its ability to procure  foreign currency.
(36) If those criteria were applied, the United States  contribution would be no less than 48%. The United  Nations had arbitrarily decided to limit the United  States contribution to one-third of the total on the  general grounds that it was undesirable for any one  State to finance an international organization to so  great an extent,
(37) His delegation considered that the Commission  should follow the United Nations example, and decide  that the United States contribution should remain  one-third of the total. Any reduction below that  figure would obscure the relation between a country's  contribution and its capacity to pay.
(38) In the Committee on Contributions, the delegate  of France Fad said that it would be inequitable if the  United States of America were the only country not  - 552 -   ADMINISTRATIVE  to benefit by a reduction of its percentage made  possible by the admission of new Member States.  But that point would only be significant if the new  countries joining were not members of the United  Nations. On page 4 of the report there was a list of  such countries, Their total contribution amounted  to 12, 57% of the total. Even if 12,57 were subtracted  from 48, the result still exceeded 33, 33, Hence no  arguments based on the fact that Unesco had more  members than the United Nations would hold water,
(39) Mr. DE LOS SANTOS (Philippines) seconded  the United Kingdom motion.
(40) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) recognized  the merits of arguments put forward by the United  Kingdom delegate. Nevertheless, he again urged  the Commission not to open the door to consider-  ations that were too far removed from the criteria  hitherto applied.
(41) He was certainly not pleading in favour of the  request from the United States of America for a  reduction in the rate of their contribution - far from  that - but it seemed to him difficult to yield at that  juncture to arguments which, although they worked  in the opposite direction, were nevertheless similar  to those he had a short while ago opposed,
(42) He therefore would be glad if the Chairman of  the Committee on Contributions or the Director-  General's representative could give some  explanations on the method of calculating the  contributions, so that he could, if need be, revise  his present interpretation,
(43) Mr, HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) referred  the Commission to the terms of reference of the  United Nations Committee on Contributions. It was  specified that, while United Nations expenses should  he apportioned according to the capacity of the  various countries to pay, it was, nevertheless,  difficult to effect such an apportionment by statistical  means; it was further stated that national income  seemed to be the best guide, but that other factors  (income per head, temporary dislocation due to the  war, and ability to procure foreign currency) had to  be borne in mind,
(44) Mr. POHL (Union of South Africa) said that, as  regards the basic principles advanced by the delegate  of the United Kingdom, he was in complete agreement,  It was not appropriate for the Commission to revise  the calculations already made by the United Nations,  and it should therefore abide by the existing United  Nations assessment,
(45) Mr, SCOTT (United States of America), as a  newcomer, welcomed the opportunity of joining in  the Commission's deliberations, and expressed his  conviction, as a former aide to the President of the  “Inited States of America, that mutual understanding  would lead to a lasting peace,
(46) He was much impressed by the thorough study  uncerlying the recommendations now before the  Commission, His interest in the point at issue was  no mere academic one, since he would be called on  to justify the decisions taken at the Conference  before the Congress of the United States of America,    COMMISSION v-9
(47) The United States of America was glad to see,  in the resolution before the Commission, that it had  been possible to implement the principle that no  country should pay a higher per capita contribution  than the country paying the highest contribution.
(48) The lack of any specific mention of a percentage  figure for the United States of America meant that  the United States contribution would be adjusted to  allow for the difference in membership between the  United Nations (60 members) and Unesco (72). It  would, that is to say, be reduced to 30% of the total.
(49) The delegate of the United Kingdom had proposed  that, come what might, the United States of America,  as the largest contributor, should always have to pay
33.33% unless there was a radical change in the  relative capacity to pay. His arguments might seem  plausible, but he (the speaker) agreed with the  delegate of Brazil in thinking that they were seriously  inequitable,
(50) While fully recognizing that capacity to pay was  a relevant consideration, it was surely important that  rights and obligations should be equitably shared and  that no one country should have a preponderance of  power in any international organization, It was for  that latter reason that a ceiling of 33. 33% had been  set for the contribution of any one Member State,  but there was no reason why that figure should not  be reduced if there were a substantial increase in  the membership of the Organization.
(51) If the United Kingdom proposal were adopted,  and the United States contribution remained at 33, 33%,  then, if the budget stayed at the existing figure of  $18, 000, 000 for two years, the contribution of every  country would be reduced, except in the case of the  United States of America and perhaps in the case of  those countries the contributions of which were  assessed at the minimum level of 0,04%, The  United Kingdom contribution would be reduced from  nearly $2, 000, 000 to roughly $1, 400, 000.
(52) If the budget were increased, as recommended  by the Director-General, to approximately  $21, 000, 000, only the United States contribution  would be definitely increased, and that by more than  a million dollars, At the same time the United  Kingdom contribution would Ye reduced from nearly  $2,000,000 to $1,550,000. He could supply figures  to show the reductions for all other Member States.
(53) The adoption of the United Kingdom proposal  could hardly be considered equitable, nor would it be  in the interests of Unesco, since it would render  Unesco considerably more dependent than in the past  on the contributions of one country, the United States  of America.
(54) It was important to realize that, if the proposal  were adopted, the friends of Unesco in the United  States of America would have great difficulty in  justifying the Unesco budget before Congress and in  securing the necessary funds.
(55) He earnestly hoped that the Commission and the  Conference would be able to support the view that the  United States of America should share in the adjust-  ment of percentage contributions made possiLle by  the accession of new Member States, i,e, that the  United States contribution for the following two years  should be reduced to 30% of the total budget. In so  requesting, he was not asking that the ceiling figure  of 33.33% should be abandoned - merely that the  - 553 -   v-9  United States of America should be allowed to benefit  from an adjustment made possible by circumstances.
(56) Only if such an adjustment were made could his  delegation accept any increase in the budget, having  been given emphatic instructions to vote against any  budget increase requiring a larger cash contribution  from his country than was being made at that moment.
(57) Mr. HUZAYIN (Egypt) agreed with the points  made by the various speakers who had opposed the  United Kingdom proposal, It was impossible to  separate the question at issue from the question of  a possible increase in the budget. The fact that it  would be exceedingly difficult or impossible for the  United States delegation to accept any budget  increase if the proposal were adopted had to be  given due weight,
(58) Dr, MUDALIAR (India) said that the principle  that no one Member State should contribute more  than a third of the budget did not inean that a State  could be compelled to pay a third of the budget no  matter what the circumstances,
(59) Several new Member States had joined Unesco,  with the result that every Member State, except  those paying the minimum contribution, would enjoy  some reduction in its contribution, Under the  United Kingdom proposal, the only country not so  affected would be the United States of America,  which would be mcst unfair, There was no doubt  about the United States capacity to pay, but at the  same time it had to be borne in mind that the United  States of America was spending a lot of money on  purposes allied to those of Unesco, and that the very  large United States contribution to the finances of  Unesco was to some extent a voluntary one,
(66) Mr. SALIM (Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan)  agreed with what had been said in favour of a  r 2duction in the United States contribution,
(31) He was specially concerned by paragraph (b}  on the first page of the report (minimum contribution).  What were the reasons which had prompted certain  members of the Committee to take the view that a  contribution of less than 0,04% would be  unreasonably small?
(62) His country's capacity to pay was very slight,  Out of the total population of Jordan, nearly one-half  were refugees, and, of them, only 11,300 could  subsist without aid. Jordan was dependent c-» the  United Kingdom for foreign currency, and Jordan's  contribution to Unesco was frequently criticized in  the Parliament of Jordan as being excessive. He  very much doubted whether his Government would  agree to pay a larger one,
(63) It was not fair to class Jordan with other  countries which were richer and could better afford  the minimum contribution,
(64) Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) said that  there was no minimum in the Unesco scale. The  figure of 0, 04% had been arrived at by converting  the lowest United Nations figures into the Unesco  scale in the same way as had been done for all the  other Member States, The coefficient applied  did not affect the smaller percentages as it  did the larger ones.  ADMINISTRATIVE     COMMISSION
(65) Mr. RIANO JAUMA (Cuba) was opposed to any  increase in the scale of contributions, and supported  the proposed adjustment, not only with regard to the  United States of America but also with regard to  other members which, like Cuba, were already  contributing large sums,
(66) Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) asked whether the  minimum rate of 0,04 per cent was at that time  applied or whether it was simply a recommendation;  whether, in other words, the percentage for certain  countries was likely to be higher than the theoretical  percentage obtained by calculation,
(67) Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) referred  the Commission to paragraph (b) on page 1 of the  report. There was no fixed minimum percentage,  although the Committee on Contributions had  recommended that, for 1955-56, the minimum  Unesco contribution should be reached by converting  the minimum percentage (United Nations scale) into  the Unesco scale,
(68) The first column in document 8C/DIY/93  showed the percentages in the United Nations scale  for 1955. Column 3 showed the United Nations scale  adjusted for per capita income. The figures in  Column 3 had then been added to give a total of
111. 06%, and in Column 4 had been converted into  the Unesco scale (100%) by a process of simple  mathematics. The coefficient applied to the figure
0,04% in Column 3 had not been sufficient to bring it  down to 0,03%. He would repeat that the figure of
0.04% was not a fixed minimum; it had merely been  arrived at by calculation.
(69) Mr, BRICHET (France) thought the suggestion  made by the United Kingdom delegate extremely  dangerous, for it was likely to jeopardize any  increase in Unesco's budget,
(70) As he had already said in the Programme and  Budget Commission, it would not be fair if the  United States of America were the only country not  to benefit from the general reduction made possible  by the admission of new Member States.
(71) The French delegation's argument, however,  was based on considerations peculiar to Unesco,  and it should not be used as a precedent for the  fixing of scales of contributions in other Specialized  Agencies.
(72) Hence, the French delegation could not accept  the USSR delegation's argument concerning parity  with the International Labour Office.
(73) In conclusion, Mr. Brichet said that he would  reject the motion submitted by the United Kingdom  delegate and would approve the draft resolution  contained in document 8C/ADM/31.
(74) Mr. BARRIOS (Nicaragua) remarked that,  since the main issue to be considered was the life of  Unesco itself, it would be best to maintain contribu-  tions at the present level, and to use the resources  brought in by new Meniber States in order to  strer ‘then the techmcal assistance activities.
(75) Mr, PRATT (Australia) said that there was  already a great disparity between 48% and 33, 33%  and there was no justification for a further reduction   ADMINISTRATIVE  to 30% in the United States contribution, The  proposal, if accepted, might well open the way for  further requests for reductions at a later date,
(76) Mr. SALIM (Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan)  said that, in estimating minimum contributions, the  United Nations had not made use of any reliable  survey of the national income in countries not  members of the United Nations, Me did not see why  the Committee on Contributions had not carried its  calculations to three places of decimals, which  would have been fairer to the countries at the  bottom of the scale.
(77) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) said that only  the accession to Unesco of countries not already  members of the United Nations might conceivably  be used as an argument to justify a reduction in the  United States contribution. That point, however,  Lad been made by nobody.
(78) The Soviet proposal for a reduction in the  contributions paid by the USSR and the Byelorussian  and Ukrainian SSRs had at least invoked the  principles adopted. by the United Nations Committee  on Contributions, namely, dislocation due to war,  ability to pay, etc. He could not agree that his  delegation was guilty of any inconsistency in  opposing the Soviet proposal while at the same time  opposing any reduction in the United States proposal.
(79) He sympathized with the difficulties experienced  by the United States of America in securing funds for  its contribution to Unesco, But if the United States  of America were allowed to reduce its contribution  other Member States might follow suit and say that  they too, could agree to a higher budget if they were  not required to pay more themselves,
(60) The United Kingdom amendment to paragraph 2,  for the addition of the words "The United States  contribution shall be fixed at 33, 33%" was put to the  vote and rejected by 34 votes to 15, with 2 abstentions.
(81) The CHAIRMAN said that any motion in  connexion with minimum rates of contribution  could appropriately be submitted.   (82) Mr, HAGUIWARA (Japan), referring to the  CONMISSION v-9  passage In the report of the Committee on Contri-  butions dealing with the Chinese Government's  request for its contribution to be reduced to  $14,000 a year, asked whether the Committee,  when it had decided to defer examination of that  question until the ninth session, had at least  received an assurance of part payment,
(83) He also wished to know in which category of  receipts that reduced contribution would be included.
(84) Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) confirmed  that the Chinese delegation had offered to pay a  token contribution of $14,000 a year. Under the  Financial Regulations, any payment from a Member  State had to be to pay off the amount owed to the  Working Capital Fund, That had been done with the  $14, 000 received for 1954.
(85) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) reminded the  Commission of the difficulties experienced in  previous years owing to the considerable difference  between the theoretical budget and the real budget  of the Organization.
(86) Since it was expected that all the Member  States except China would pay their contributions in  full for the financial period 1955-56, the budget  would be greatly simplified if it included the exact  sum China could pay, and not its theoretical  contribution.
(87) Mr. Haguiwara accordingly submitted a motion,  in the form of an addition to paragraph 2 of the draft  resolution, which read: "The contribution by China  for 1955-56 shall be 0,16 per cent without prejudice  to any decision chat may be taken by the ninth  session of the General Conference, “
(88) The CHAIRMAN asked whether there were any  seconders for that motion.
(89) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium), Mr. BERREDO  CARNEIRO (Brazil), and Mr, SCOTT (United States  of America) supported tne motion,
(90) It was decided to resume discussion at the  afternoon meeting.  The meeting rose at 1 p.m.  - 555 -