30 November 195$ at 3 p.m.  Chairmaa : Mr. BEEBY (New Zeland)  ITEM 9.3 OF REVISED AGENDA: LEGAL QUESTIONS  (continued)
(1) Opening the meeting, the CHAIRMAN sald that he  had omitted that morning to thank the Chairman,  Rapporteur and members of the Legal Committee for  their extremely useful report. Before finally leaving  the Rules of Procedure, he drew attention to the fact  that paragraph 2 of Rule 86, concerning the procedure  for voting on amendments, had given rise to a great  many difficulties at sessions of the Genaral Confer-  ence. The possibility of changing that Rule might be  considered for the future.
(3) The Spanish delegation had submitted a draft  resolution (document 8C/DR/90) containing a proposal  that a two-thirds majority be made necessary for the  adoption of amendments to the Financial Regulations.  The Chairman proposed that the resolution be referrec  for advice to the Legal Committee,  a
(3) Agreed.  ITEM 9.4.4 OF REVISED AGENDA: CONTRIBUTIONS:  SCALE, CURRENCY AND COLLECTION OF CONTRIBUTIONS  OF MEMBER STATES (documents 8C/ADM/34 and 8C/DR/87)  (continued)
(4) Introducing the final report of the Contributions  Committee, Mr, BOW (Rapporteur of the Contribu-  tions Committee) explained that it was divided into  three parts: (1) currency of contributions; (2) col-  lection of contributions; and (3) draft resolution  submitted by the delegation of Chile (document
8C/DR/87). On the first page, the only alteration in  the resolution on the currency of contributions was  the provision to meet the request of Switzerland to pay,  at its choice, in United States dollars, pounds sterling  or French francs. As far as collection of contritu-  tions was concerned, the Committee had noted a  decided improvement in the payment both of contri-  butions and of arrears. A list of contributions  receivable from Member States at 26 November 1954  was annexed to the report.
(5) Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS (United Kingdom),  seconded by Mr. WENK (Switzerland) and Mr.  SANDOVAL VALLARTA (Mexico), moved adoption of  section 1 - Currency of contributions.
(6) Mr, STEPANEK (Czechoslovakia), referring to  his delegation's negotiations with the Contributions  Committee, said that it had disputed its obligation to  Pay in respect of 1953 and part of 1954 - during which  time Czechoslovakia had been out of the Organization,    He noted that the Committee had disregarded that in  its report, even though in another instance it had  reserve. its decision pending legal decision, The  Czechoslovak delegation wished the point to be noted.
(7) The CHAIRMAN observed that the matter raised  by tie delegate of Czechoslovakia concerned the  Contributions Committee, but he assured him that  the point would be noted.
(8) Section 1 was adopted.
2. Collection of Contributions
(9) Adopted,
3. Draft Resolution submitted by the Delegation of  Chile (document 8C/DR/E7)
(10) Adopted,
(11) The whole report was adopted,
(12) Mr. STERNBERGER (Chairman of the Contri-  butions Committee) wondered if the Commission  wished to discuss the question whether or not to have  a Contributions Committee at the ninth session of  the General Conference, There was a suggestion  that the work of the Contributions Committee might  in future be taken over by the Executive Board,
(13) Mr. ABEYWICKREMA (Ceylon) recalled a  feeling expressed that the Executive Board should  meet less often, If it took over the tasks of the  Contributions Committee, it would probably not be  possible for it to hold fewer sessions,
(14) Mr. WIECHECKI (Poland) pointed out that page
4 of the Annex to the Contributions Committee's  Report showed Poland as owing a sum of $159, 898  for 1954, whereas, according to his information,  Poland had paid $160, 000 as its contribution for that  year.
(15) Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) replied  that it was true that the sum had been paid by the  Polish Government, but, under the Financial Regu-  lations still in force, the payment had to be credited  first to the Working Capital Fund and then against  the contribution next due, which, in the present case,  was that due in respect of 1953,
(16) Mr. WIECHECKI (Poland) took note of the  Comptroller's explanation, while reserving the right  to comment on it later if it did not concur with the  - 613 -   ADMINISTRATIVE  arrangement made by the Contributions Committee,
(17) Mr. STERNBERGER (Chairman of the Contribu-  tions Committee) had no definite recoinmendations to  make on behalf of the Corcributions Committee and  did not know how much work the Executive Board had  before it; but he was sure that the Committee, if so  desired, would be very glad to serve again at the  ninth session.
(18) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive  Board) had not consulted the Boar on the subject, but,  personally, believed that the Board, which would be  able to study the question of contributions over a  period of two years, would discharge the task far  better than a committee set up at short notice during  the General Conference.
(19) Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS (United Kingdom),  seconded by several delegations, moved that the  future of the Contributions Committee be referred  to the Executive Board for consideration, particularly  when it came to the task of making plans for the  organization of work of the ninth session of the  General Conference,
(20) The proposal was adopted,
(21) Mr, STERNBERGER (Chairman of the Contribu-  tions Committee) wished to make one final remark.  Everyone had paid tribute to the work of the Contri-  butions Committee, but it would not have been able to  settle any of the matters submitted to it, had it not  had the very skilful and efficient help of the  Secretariat.
(22) The CHAIRMAN was sure that the Commission  would wish to place on record its appreciation of the  fine work done by the Contributions Committee.  ITEM 9.5 OF REVISED AGENDA: STAFF QUESTIONS  (continued)  Legal guarantees to be provided nationally for the  staff of the Secretariat (document 8C/DR/74)
(23) Mr. POMPEI (Italy) submitted the Italian dele-  gation's draft recommendation to give the staff of the  Secretariat legal guarantees in addition to those  already examined in document 8C/ADM/11 (Personnel  recruitment standards and methods), The General  Conference had asked the Director-General, at its  seventh session, if, in the interests of continuity and  stability, he could build up a permanent cadre of  Unesco officials, but there wa- a second class of  officials not to be overlooked, who worked for only a  few years at Unesco, and then returned to resume  their careers in their home country, Mr. Pompei  said he would not dwell on that document, as it had  already been brought before the Commission by the  representative of the Executive Board; he would  merely draw attention to the advantages of the guaran-  tees provided in the draft recommendation: the re-  cruitment of candidates for non-permanent posts  would be given wider scope and in that way candidates  would reach a high enough standard to comply with the  - 614 -     COMMISSION  Director-General's recommendations as to compe-  tence and efficiency. The draft recommendation, if  accepted, would make it less awkward to terminate  the contracts of officials, by doing away with certain  personal and human aspects. The element of  security would have a favourable effect on the official  during his engagement, comparable to that of a  permanent contract. Mr, Pompei wanted to make it  clear that all that the Italian delegation wanted at  present was a recommendation to Member States,  since it did not think the time was yet ripe to ask  them to take any mare binding step; all that could be  done for the moment was to appeal to their moral  sense, The position of such officials varied a good  deal from one country to another, which might cause  a certain amount of difficulty; it should be possible  to overcome that problem by taking suitable adminis-  trative steps, without resorting to special legislation,  All that Member States were being asked to do at  present was to ensure that, when their nationals  returned home after occupying a temporary post at  Unesco, they obtained a position at least equal to that  held before they joined Unesco. Mr. Pompei thought  the question had already been studied by other  Specialized Agencies of the United Nations. He per-  sonally had been called upon to deal with situations  of the kind, and had obtained satisfaction for Italian  officials; his task would have been much easier if  there had been a recommendation of that kind in  existence, He concluded by stressing the fact that  the Italian delegation was merely bringing the  problem to the notice of Member States.
(24) Mr. NOGUEIRA (Uruguay) confirmed the re-  marks made on the previous day by his delegation,  requesting Unesco to offer its officials long-term  contracts for 5, 6 or 7 years. He thought it advis-  able for Member States to extend insurance and  retirement provisions granted to national civil ser-  vants, to those of their nationality who discharged  the functions of international officials. The Italian  delegation's draft recommendation did not go so far  as the legislation of Uruguay on that matter. All  things needed time to mature. His delegation would  support the Italian draft recommendation.
(25) While sympathizing with the point of view of the  Italian delegation, Mr. BROWNELL (United States of  America) thought that the resolution would be more  likely to produce the desired results if Member  States were asked, not to guarantee certain condi-  tions, but to go as far as they could in the matter. He  therefore suggested the following redraft of the  resolution:  "Member States which release their officials to  take up employment with the Secretariat should make  every effort to see that, at the end of their service  with Unesco, those officials are restored to a  position in the Government service equal or equiva-  lent to the position they previously held, and that, if  possible or relevant, their service with the Organiss  tion should count for the purposes of seniority, For  the same purpose, Member States should encourage  private institutions or establishments, where  appropriate, to give similar assurances to their  members."   ADMINISTRATIVE
(26) The above amendments were acceptable to Mr.  POMPEI (Italy) and Mr, NOGUEIRA (Uruguay).
(27) Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS (United Kingdom)  stated that the matter was one of considerable interest  to his delegation, which was very much in favour of  the Italian proposal. He was happy to say that the  United Kingdom had never been unwilling to release  personnel, but had always considered individual  spplications on their merits. The question was  whether the aim of the Italian resolution was to voice  an aspiration or to start effective action. It seemed  to him that both the Italian resolution and the United  States amendment merely voiced an aspiration and  would not produce any considerable or far-reaching  results, He therefore moved that:  "The Administrative Commission ask the Director-  General to report to the General Conference at a  future session on the practice of Member States of  Unesco in sanctioning the secondment of civil servants,  members Jf the staffs of universities and educational  institutions to the United Nations and Specialized  Agencies’,
(28) When that information had been collected, the  Conference would be in a better position to make  recommendations to Member States,
(29) Mr. C,W. CARTER (Canada) moved that the  advice of the Legal Committee be sought bafore the  Commission took any decision on the draft resolution  in document 8C/DR/"'4
(30) Mr. KELLY (Australia) seconded the Canadian  mntion,
(31) Mr. DE HOOG (Netherlands) wondered whether  it was really necessary to refer the resolution to the  Legal Committee; if it were adopted, its results  would only be felt at national level, so that it did not  appear necessary to bring it before an international  committee, He was accordingly opposed to that  suggestion,
(32) The motion to adjourn the debate on document
8C/DR/74 until the Legal Committee had reported on  it was put to the vote and adopted by 17 votes to 13,  with 9 abstentions,  Measures to be taken to provide an in-service  training programme (document 8C/ADM/12)
(33) The CHAIRMAN explained that no action was  demanded on the document,
(34) Mr. SOLDATOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics), referring to paragraph 8 of document
8C/ADM/12, proposed that staff members be helped  to acquire or increase their proficiency in Russian as  well as in English and French.
(35) Mr. FARR (Chief, Bureau of Personnel and  Management) sugge-ted that the Soviet delegation's  proposal be referred to the Secretariat committee  referred to in paragraph 9, which had been set up to  advise the Director-General on linguistic training,  {38) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) asked that the Inter-  national Civil Service Advisory Board report, referred  - 615 -     COMMISSION v-20  to in paragraph 2 of 8C/ADM/12, be made available  to members of the Commission.
(37) Mr. FARR (Chief, Bureau of Personnel and  Management’ replied that a limited number of copies  of the rep: t, in English and French, had been cir-  c ilated to all delegations the preceding Friday
(38) Document 8C/ADM/12 was received.  Report on salary adjustments for staff in the  Principal Officer and Director and Professional  categories (document 8C/ADM/13)
(39) At the proposal of Mr. BAUGNIET (Be’gium)  the report was adopted.  Personnel policy, obligations and rights of staff  members: proposed amendments to the Staff  Regulations (document 8C/ADM/ 14)
(40) Introducing document 8C/ADM/14, the  DIRECTOR-GENERAL drew attentionto the resolution  on the first page, adopted by the General Conference  at its second extraordinary session in July 1853, It  would be remembered that, at that session, there  had been an extensive discussion of certa.n aspects  of the Organization's personnel policy and the Con-  ference had finally passed the aforesaid resolution.
(41) It was impossible at the present time for Unesco  to follow the policy of the United Nations and other  Specialized Agencies, for the simple reason that  there was no identically common policy. He had  therefore decided to follow, in gencrai, the policy of  the United Nations; the aim of most of the recom-  mendations in document 8C/ADM/ 14, therefore, was  to bring Unesco's regulations into line with those of  the United Nations, In developing the proposals  before the Commission, the Secretariat hac watched  developments in the United Nations, studied papers  presented by the Secretary-General to the General  Assembly, and kept in touch with the other Specia-  lized Agencies, The Director-General had decided  to march with the United Nations and not to respond  to incidents, involving problems for the Organization,  as they might occur. He emphasized that point,  because the incidents which nad occurred in connex-  ion with a United States national bore no relation to  the proposals in document 8C/ADM/14. Therefore,  in the case cf Unesco, as in the case of the United  Nations, the statement of the Secretary-General in  paragraph 3 on page 2 was a true one, namely: ‘My  proposals .... are, however,basedonconsiderations  of a general nature, and they are in no way adjusted  to special circumstances prevæiling at a particular  time or in relation to a particular country". There  had been no special circumstances prevailing at the  time when the Director-General had drafted his  proposals and submitted them to the Executive Board.
(42) It was desirable to introduce the word ‘integrity'  as that was contained in paragraph 4 of Article VI of  the Constitution, It was also desirable to make  explicit reference to "independence" and "impartiality"  as being qualities required of international civil  servants which found their counterpart in the obliga-  tion of Member States, under the Constitution, not   V-20 ADMINISTRATIVE  to interfere with the work of members of the  Secretariat.
(43) Similarly, in Regulation 1.7, it was proposed to  adopt the United Nations text.
(44) With regard to Regulation 9,1, it was proposed  to keep the text in the right-hand column of paragraph
4 (c). That would be followed by sections 9.1.1,
8.1.2, 9.3 and 8.3.1, as explained in paragraph 8 on  pages 5 and 6 of decument 8C/ADM/ 14,
(45) The deletion of Regulation 4.2,1 was proposed  as that provision did not exist in the regulations of  the United Nations or other Specialized Agencies.
(46) In conclusion, the Director-General emphasized  again that one of his objectives was to develop a staff  which was competent, efficient, loyal, impartial in  dealings with Member States and independent of  pressures of Member States - a staff of men and  women willing to subordinate themselves to the  interests of the Organization. Such staff members,  in the conduct of their official business, would always  be able to count upon the strong protection of the  Director-General, The argument had been advanced  that he did not need to change the wording of the Staff  Regulations, because he could act under paragraph 4  of Article VI of the Constitution, but he had construed  the first segtence of that paragraph broadly to mean  that all his powers, in dealing with the staff, derived  from the Staff Regulations. In his view, therefore,  it was necessary to amend them,
(47) Mr. BENDER (Executive Board) thought it super-  fluous to say that the Executive Board had always  been extremely concerned with the well-being of the  staff, and particularly with their morale, which con-  ditioned their capacity to serve the Organization to  the best of their ability. In its discussions on per-  sonnel policy, the Board had always heard comments  from a representative of the Staff Association, and he  believed it very important that such a representative  should be allowed to put the views of the staff,
(48) The question was one of the utmost importance,  because the success of Unesco depended to a large  extent upon the morale of the staff, and upon their  liberty as international civil servants, The Adminis-  trative Commission would have to decide whether the  amendments to the Staff Regulations proposed by the  Director-General were in accordance with the prin-  ciple of liberty proclaimed in paragraph 5 of Article  V1 of the Constitution. The Executive Board itself  had been sharply divided, so that Mr, Bender would  merely draw the Commission's attention to the  Boara's comments in Annex II on page 16 of document
8C/ADM/ 14,
(49) The CHAIRMAN asked the Commission if it  would allow a representative of the Staff Association  to make a statement,
(51) Mr, HENQUET (representing the Staff Associa-  tion thanked the Chairman snd the Commission for  giving him that fresh opportunity to put the views of  the staff and said that the comments which he wished  to make on behalf of the Staff Association were outlined  in Annex I to document 8C/ADM/ 14,
(52) He wanted it made clear that, although the staff  - 616 -     COXKMISSION  had been deeply disturbed by the proposed amend-  ments to the Staff Regulations, its confidence in the  Director-General himself remained unshaken. It  fully appreciated the patient attention he had given to  staff suggestions and grievances and his readiness to  leave the staff free to state their point of view while  giving his own personal upinion equally frankly.
(53) Mr. Henquet then retraced the basic principles  called 1n question by the proposed amendments,  referring in turn to the general conditions governing  an international civil service, the legal aspect of  such a service and the historical background to the  proposals now being submitted. The basic principle  was that of the absolute independence of international  civil servants; that had been formally upheld on  many occasions and was embodied in Article 100 of  the Charter and Articie VI of the Unesco Constitution,  As rt currently stood, from an administrative stand-  point, the Secretariat was in fact a genuine interna-  tional civil service manned by a team of officials  with a stable structure, working for the furtherance  of the common good, and independent of any one  country.
(54) The second principle was that of security of  tenure; the international civil service must be based  on the idea of a career, and a career in its turnon *  permanent employment; that principle of security  and stability of tenure had been officially recognized  ever since the report prepared by the experts of ILO  and the League of Nations had appeared. Mr, Henquet  pointed out that, whereas successive staff difficul-  ties encountered by the League of Nations had been  due to the lack of a sufficiently well developed  international spirit, United Nations difficulties and  those which threatened Unesco were due to national  loyalties.
(55) The Staff Regulations had arisen from the need  to guarantee the principles outlined above, and to  ensure that they would be effectively carried out.  Mr, Henquet recapitulated the history of the idea of  such regulations, pointing out that the body of the  regulations in its way constituted the common law of  international administration, and he added that, while  not wishing it to be regarded as unchangeable, the  Staff Association was agreed that amendments must  be based solely on the needs of the particular inter-  national organization in question, and should take  due account of its nature, composition and structure,  Unescc's Staff Regulations could not be amended  simply because those of the United Nations had been  changed; guarantees and obligations, where  officials were concerned, could not be altered  without good reason, and some assurance was need-  ed that the reasons which were valid in New York  also held good in Paris, and that did not appe-r to  be the case. Mr. Henquet made it clear that in the  case in point the Staff Association thought it doubtful  whether the proposed amendments really were  based on permaner : considerations, and felt that  there was every reason to believe that events in New  York had played a dominant rôle in their preparation.  That was a direct outcome of the crisis suffered by  the international civil service, and he thought a  brief historical outline was called for. He referred  to the proposals put forward by the Secrctary-  General of the United Nations, which were the basis  of the present proposals, pointing out that one of the   ADMINISTRATIVE  reasons given for proposing the amendments was that  the term "integrity" was covered neither by that of  “unsatisfactory Service" nar by that of "misconduct",  so that the lack of integrity would not in itself con-  stitute ground for disinissal, particularly as inter-  preted by the Administrative Tribunal. Ir order to  demonstrate that the measures in question were  dictated by special circumstances which obtained in a  givencountryat a given time, Mr. Henquet reminded  the Commission that twenty-one officials had been  dismissed, in most cases because they refused to  answer questions put to them by an Investigation  Board or Parliamentary sub-Committee in their own  country.
(56) On a point of order, Mr. KELLY (Australia)  thought that the representative of the Staff Association  should be asked to confine his remarks strictly to  matters before the Commission and not to go into  questions of concern only to Member States.
(57) The CHAIRMAN asked the representative of the  Staff Association to bear the point in mind.
(58) Mr, HENQUET explained that he had no inten-  tion of dealing with the question of relations between  inte; national civil servants and their own countries,  but merely wished to draw the Commission's attention  to the position of international civil servants vis-a-vis  the Organization to which they belonged in the light of  the duties which devolved upon them and guarantees  granted to them by the Staff Regulations. He had feit  compelled to refer to the position of the New York  civil servants, because the proposed amendments  were almost identical with those introduced into the  United Nations Staff Regulations as a result of the  fifth General Assembly.
(58) Mr, Henquet then proceeded to analyse the  Director-ueneral's proposals, reminding the Com-  mission that the grounds for dismissal which the  Director -General could invoke under the Staff Regu-  lations were the following: abolition of the post,  staff reductions, unsatisfactory service, ill-health,  serious misconduct - all of which were traditional in  the administrative laws of civilized countries, The  Staff Regulations in that way circumscribed the  Director -General's discretionary powers and in that  restriction lay officials’ most precious guarantee of  independence and security.
(60) The proposed amendments set out in document
8C/ADM/14 were designed to supplement those recog-  nized grounds by adding others of which subjectivity  was the keynote, thereby adding considerably to the  Director-General's discretionary powers, While  there remained the possibility of appeal, that increase  in discretionary powers reduced the value of such  checks as existed.
(61) The proposed amendments covered standards of  integrity, political activity, and an extension in the  Director-General's discretionary powers. The first  item, integrity, occurred in both the Charter and the  Constitution, and in the eyes of the Staff Association  there could be no serious objection to incorporating  it in the Staff Regulations, if it were understoodina  precise and generally recognized sense; taking the  term in the sense of incorruptibility, dignity, profes-  sional conscience, there could be no objection to  - 617 -     CONMISSION v-20  including it in the rules of conduct or recruitment  standards for the Secretariat. Unbappily, exper-  ience of the United Nations proved that there was a  close connexion between, and an inevitable overlap-  ping of, the concept of integrity and that of loyalty,  and it had been all the more difficult to define the  concept since it had to be construed in such a way as  to cover the special position of the international civil  servant, Mr. Henquet recalled that the Executive  Board had advised the Conference not to insert that  expression in the Staff Regulations without a precise  definition - and that had not been given. The Director-  Seneral was proposing to insert the term "integrity"  in Regulation 1,4 (rules of conduct) and in Regulation
9.1 (reasons for termination of appointment). The  reasons for that were quite clear, Above ali, it  was, as in the United Nations, a way of avoiding  conflict between the administrative and the legal  points of view, The boundary line between adminis-  trative considerations on the one hand and those of a  strictly legal nature on the other was very vague and  only thinly veiled its object: that of encroaching  openly on the jurisdiction of the administrative  authorities and making room, in the relations between  the Organization and its officials, for a special pre-  serve, within which the administration would enjoy  discretionary powers. The Staff Association was  very much disturbed by those proposals, which  might well have a serious effect on staff morale, and  it hoped that the Conference would reject them or at  least give an exact dafinition cf the word "integrity".
(62) Mr. Henquet then drew attention to the proposal  +o amend Regulation 1.7, prohibiting any political  action, other than voting, which might reflect upon  the independence and impartiality required of mem-  bers of the Secretariat. That amendment was  worded in far more general terms than the text at  present in force and would not fail to raise a delicate  problem of interpretation. Mr. Henquet recalled  that the Executive Board had advised the Conference  to adopt the amendmo2nt only if a suitable definition  were given of the words "political activity". While  it conside -ad that the present wording of Regulation
1.7, interpreted in the light of Regulation 1.4, would  suffice to safeguard the Organization's interests, the  Staff Association hoped that, if the Conference saw  fit to a'ter the text, it would take into account the  recommendations of the Executive Board or of the  Advisory Council on Personnel Policies, which  suggested a narrower definition.
(63) Mr. Henquet pointed out that the body of the  amendments proposed would re sult in a considerable  increase in the Director-General's discretionary  powers, since in addition to the accepted grounds for  dismissal he asked the Conference to recognize his  right to dismiss officials on the grounds of: (a) lack  of integrity; (b) facts anterior to the appointment of  a staff member and relevant to his suitability which  would have precluded his appointment; (c) the inter-  ests of the good administration of the Organization.  The Staff Association maintained that the reasons at  present embodied in the Staff Regulations were such  as to enable the Director-General to encompass the  objects laid down in the Constitution while guarantee-  ing the independence and security of officials. It  held that the proposed amendments were dangerous  to the Director-General himself, who could not,after   V-20 ADMINISTRATIVE  all, always be in a position to resist outside pressure,  With regard to the criterion of integrity, what had  already been said on that subject \-~s seen to be all  the more to the point since the reasons for termina-  tion of appointment, even more than the rules of con-  duct, should be stated with precision and objectivity,  The criterion of facts anterior to the appointment was,  he submitted, unacceptable because of its subjectivity  and because it bore the seed of general insecurity. Mr,  Henquet accordingly pointed out that the Executive  Board had advised the Conference not to adopt that  text, With regard to the clause dealing with the good  administration of the Organization, that proposal had  resulted from the compromise reached during dis-  cussions held by the Fifth Committee of the General  Assembly of the United Nations; that text, taken in  conjunction with the Director-General's right to  increase by 50% the amount of the termination indem-  nity payable (Regulation 9.3.1), looked very much  like bargaining or at least an arrangement very dif-  ferent indeed from the traditionally accepted usage of  public law and, in that case again, the Staff Associa-  tion hoped that the Generel Conference would adopt  the recommendation of the Executive Board to reject  the proposal,
(64) Mr. Henquet then went into the motives behind  ihe draft amendments, the aim of which, he said, was  quite clear: what the promoters of those proposals  had in mind was to make possible the dismissal of  three officials whose loyalty to the Government of a  Member State had been called in question; the fixed  contracts of four civil servants had already termina-  ted and had not been renewed for the same reasons,  and the proposed reforms obviously aimed at increas-  ing the powers of the Director-General, and at  ena*ling him to dismiss permanent officials. Mr.  Henqu.* hastened to assert that the Staff Association  had ne desire to take sides in a question of the rela-  tior., of civil servants with the Government of their  cn country, and that all it wished to do was to  maintain certain principles regarding the attitude of  the authorities towards its officials.
(65) The recent decision of the Appeals Board on the  non-renewal of the contracts of the four officials re-  ferred to was extremely interesting in that connexion,  The Appeals Board had seen fit to enquire into the  validity of the grounds for the Director-General's  decision: in the case in point, to decide whether the  fact of refusing to appear before an Investigating  Committee of a political kind did or did not constitute  a lack of integrity.
(66) The Board had decided that the refusal to appear  did not in itself constitute a lack of integrity, and  that, to preserve that integrity intact, those officials  had no need to account to an Investigating Committee  for acts of which they had not been given precise de-  tails. It had likewise considered that there was no  proof that their refusal to appear had been contrary  to the interests of the Organization, or incompatible  with a desire to serve such interests,
(67) It had concluded, therefore, that the Director-  General was not justified in refusing to renew the  contracts of the officials concerned,
(68) If the Director-General did not adopt the recom-  mendations of the Appeals Board, he would probably  soon find himself condemned by the Administrative  Tribunal to pay an indemnity to the staff members  - 618 -     COMMISSION  whose contracts had not been renewed, The same  would apply a fortiori, were three permanent of-  ficials to be dismissed for the same reasons,
(69) It was not for the Staff Association to say  whether such decisions, which had caused irreparable  damage to the careers of seven officials of unques-  tioned competence and experience, were likely to  uphold the prestige and serve the long-term interests  of Unesco.
(70) Finally, Mr. Henquet wished to state that, in  the view of the Staff Association, the present word-  ing of the Staff Regulations was satisfactory, and that  it would be well to call to mind, before altering it,  that the changes in the United Nations Staff Regula-  tions were provisional, and were to be reviewed at  the United Nations General Assembly in 1955; he  also pointed out that the attitude of the other  Specialized Agencies such as WHO and ILO should  not be overlooked, and that they had not seen fit to  alter their regulations, even though they too, like  Unesco, had beer obliged to reconsider their basic  texts in the light of those in force at the United  Nations, If it were resolved to modify the Regula-  tions at all costs, the Staff Association considered  that due consideration must be given to the  recommendations of the Executive Board.
(71) The Staff Association offered its comments to  the Administrative Commission, in the belief that it  was true to the underlying principles of a genuine  internationalism, which must combine international  loyalty with the national attachments of every inter-  national civil servant. A truly international spirit  could not be created with words; it called for the  harmonization of an international outlook with the  traditional idea of nationalism - a harmonization  which obviously became more difficult at times of  ideological conflict; and that was why the creation of  a suitable psychological climate was so important, It  was in that spirit that the Staff Association had  presented its views.
(72) The CHAIRMAN asked members of the Com-  mission if they would approve the following proce-  dure: (1) that there should be.a general discussion  on document 8C/ADM/14; (2) that the Chairman  should refuse to accept any resolution or amendment  relating to individual rules; (3) that he should not  give priority to any member giving notice of a motion  after the close of the general debate,
(73) The above procedure was approved,
(74) Mr. BROWNELL (United States of America)  stated that, in the view of his delegation, the issue  under discussion was of very great importance and  far more fundamental than it might appear: the  future of the entire Organization was at stake, and it  was a matter of grave concern to his Government  and country. The problem, however, transcended  one country or group of countries and its solution  would require real statesmanship.
(75) No organization could. rise above the level of  its secretariat, so that the quality of Unesco's staff  members must be of the highest, or the confidence  of all those who supported the Organization would be  shaken or destroyed. The founders of the post-war  international organizations had been fully aware of   ADMINIBTRATIVE  the problem, as was evident from that fact that they  had conferred special privileges and immunities upon  their secretariats, at the same time calling for staff  members conforming to the highest standards of inte-  grity, efficiency and technical competence. Acting  under their Charters and Constitutions, all those  organizations had established staff regulations, setting  forth in greater detail those privileges and immunities  and squarely placing upon the executive heads the  responsibility of maintaining the high standards re-  quired, Unesco's Staff Regulations had closely  followed those of the United Nations, until the latter  were amended in 1953, But those amendments were  not designed to change the exacting standards for  {nternational civil servants, but merely to amplify  those standards. Different interpretations of the  original regulations had led to disputes between the  Secretary-General and the Administrative Tribunal,  and the regulations had therefore been amended te  prevent further conflicts and clarify the original  intent, While the United States Government had con-  tested the Administrative Tribunal's interpretation of  the regulations, it had supported those clarifications  in order to dispel future doubts regarding the power  of the Secretary-General.
(76) Now similar amendments to Unesco's Staff Re-  gulations had been proposed, and the United States  delegation could support them, On the other hand, the  United States delegation continued to maintain that the  amendments were not necessary to the discharge by  the Director-General of his responsibility. As far as  dealings with his staff were concerned, the powers he  needed were inherent and explicit in the Constitution.  The United States delegation was convinced that no  adjustment or amendments to the Staff Regulations  would ensure the maintenance of the highest standards  of integrity, efficiency and technical competence re-  quired of international civil servants, unless, in the  first place, the meaning of those standards was clear  and, in the second, the Director-General was ready  to enforce them. As far as the meaning of those  standards was concerned, it was true that they did  not lend themselves to strict legal definitions, and the  executive head would have to use his best judgment in  dealing with inefficiency or lack of competence,  "Integrity" was even more difficult to define, but that  was not a reason for discarding it. Perhaps the best  definition, although not a strictly legal one, was to be  found in paragraph 4 of the International Civil Service  Advisory Board's Report on Standards of Conduct in  the International Civil Service (document COORD/  CIVIL SERVICE/5 - 1954), The same report con-  tained many other passages, such as paragraph 20,  designed to define integrity. All the standards laid  down in the Report were explicit and should be upheld,  or created if they did not exist, The confidence of  Member States, and thence the very existence of  Unesco, were at stake, If the standards were disre-  garded or their interpretation narrowed down, the  Secretariat of Unesco would be turned into a self-  serving institution, a refuge for misfits and dissidents  and that would be unfair to the Organization and particu-  larly to the large number of staff members who were  faithful, hard-working and frequently inspired indivi-  duals, doing their utmost to serve the best interests  of Unesco and putting those interests above their own.
(17; The task of enforcing those high standards was  - 619 -     COMMISSION v-20  incumbent upon the executive head of each organiza-  tion and he could not shift that responsibility to any  other body or find comfort in legal definitions and  interpretations, There would always be a need for  enlightened judgment on the part of the executive  heads. They required sound judgment, tact, a keen  grasp of the need to maintain the confidence of  Member States, a courage which did not shrink from  difficult decisions, and the will to act at all times in  the best interests of the organizations of which they  were the guardians. Appeals machinery =xisted to  safeguard the individual against arbitrery decisions,  but it should not paralyse executive action when the  interests of the organization required such action,
(78) In conclusion, the delegate of the United States  of America was convinced that, if all were clear on  the points he had mentioned, a solution could be  found. His delegation, for one, was perfectly  willing to continue the discussions until a meeting of  minds on the fundamentals of the situation had been  achieved.
(79) Mr. CARBAJAL VICTORICA (Uruguay) said  that discussion turned upon the rights and duties of  Unesco officials, He trusted everyone would agree  that the citizen of a given country should not be  deprived of human rights merely because he had  become an international official. The Universal  Declaration of Human Rights allowed those rights to  all men. It was sometimes suggested that an  official lost all rights except those granted to him by  the statutes under which he worked, The speaker  did not accept that postulate, On the contrary he  upheld the rights of the individual, and maintained  that an official could not, by reason of his office  alone, lose the rights that were common to all man-  kind. Such rights must be harmonized with the  duties his office imposed on him. When Minister of  the Interior, the speaker had issued a decree recog-  nizing the basic human rights of civil servants.  Exceptions might arise when the exercise of such  rights went against the rights of an official's function.  For instance, in the matter of his right to free  expression in public, in the press or over the air,  an official bore a responsibility towards his function.  He could not be false to the duties of his office. For  instance, he could not publish any fact that had come  to his knowledge through his acquaintance with  secret documents. A publication of that kind would  be the equivalent of stealing documents that did not  belong to him as a private individual. The official  was a servant of the public, and ought therefore to  be scrupulously honest, able, industrious and loyal,  Officials of Unesco were bound to fulfil such obliga-  tions. The delegate of the United States of America  had attempted to interpret the concept of integrity.  He himself would define it as "moral rectitude"  governing not only an official's exercise of his  functions, but also his private life, On the other  hand, impartiality should not be carried too far, it  was not desirable to turn an international official  into a spiritual eunuch. The question was to  harmonize individual rights with the duties and  obligations of office.  The meeting rose at 7 p.m.