(146) The CHAIRMAN said that the procedure would  be first a clarification from the delegate of Uruguay,  then comments by the Executive Board, after which  the Secretariat would fix budgetary limitations and  the Advisory Committee would consider action before  the proposal was submitted to the Programme  Commission.
(147) Mr. LEE (United States of America) objected  that action could not be taken in time for the matter  to be dealt with by the present Conference. There  was considerable merit in the project, but there was  need for much investigation before the Scientific  Information Centre in Montevideo could be accepted  as a pilot project. He proposed that, as with earlier  resolutions, the matter be referred to the Secretariat  for study.
(148) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) proposed that the possi-  bility of action under the technical assistance  programme should be considered.
(149) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) said that a study should be made in 1955-56  and the project be included in the proposals for 195% -
58 either under the regular programme or under the  technical assistance programme.
(150) Mr, RANIERI (Uruguay) found the proposed  dates satisfactory and stated that the Uruguayan  authorities would gladly provide whoever was respon-  sible for the imtial study with all the data and  information he might require.
(151) The proposal was adopted by 9 votes to 1}  with 1 abstention.    PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VI-18  DR/59: Arid Zone
(152) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) said that the  Executive Board had considered it unnecessary to  endorse the proposal since the project already  appearcd in the programme.
(153) It was agreed that no action was necessary.  DR/61:  Biology  Physical Oceanography and Marine
(154) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) said that the  Executive Board, after an explanation by the Director,  Department of Natural Sciences, had agreed to support  the Secretariat's proposal to set up an advisory  committee on marine biology.
(155) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) recalled that, when the question of  oceanography had been raised, he had made a  statement proposing certain modifications of the  programme. The proposal in DR/61, of which  he had been unaware at that time, put the Se-  cretariat's proposals in a rather more lega’  form. Accordingly, acceptance of this Japanese  proposal would amount, for the Secretzriat, to  acceptance of its own proposals, 1nvolv.ng  transfers within the budget with no additional funds.
(156) Document DR/61 was approved.  The meeting rose at 12.50 p.m.  EIGHTEENTH MEETING
11 November 1954 at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman : Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Australia)  ITEM 7.3 OF THE AGENDA : DISCLSSION OF DRAFT RESOLU-  TIONS SUBMITTED BY MEMBER STATES (continued)  Draft resolutions affecting the Department of Social  Sciences  DR/5: Peaceful Co-operation
(1) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) said that the  Executive Board had not recommended this resolution  because it felt that the proposed study would not  produce practical results for Unesco's work.
(2) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences) said thai the major part of this resolution    consisted of an appeal to the General Conference for  an expression of faith in the possibilities of resolving  all tensions through the exercise of restraint, toler-  ance, understanding and goodwill, The last sentence  proposed a study. The Secretariat thought that it  would be difficult to propose a work plan for such a  study; more information was required. Preliminary  work was necessary, which could be undertaken in 1955  and 1956 and could be used to clarify the issue. It  would consist of asking international congresses to  include the subject on their agendas. Unesco would  then give contrac's for undertaking the study and,  finally, the services of a consultant would be required  to make an inventory of all research work being done  in this connexion. In future years, the work could  - 761 -   VI-18  be digested and channelled to give the best results.  ‘The budgetary implications for the preliminary work  in 1955-56 would amount to $14,000.
(3) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) added an amendment to  the text of the resolution. The Indian Government  had written to the Secretariat and asked that the word  "coexistence" in the title should be changed to the  word "co-operation".
(4) With regard to the resolution, he said that the  Indian Government had felt the necessity of finding a  modus vivendi in the interests of peace. The United  Nations were primarily interested in the political  aspects, but there was no reason why Unesco should  not interest itself in other aspects, especially the  social aspect. In the interests of peace the matter  was urgent. It might not be possible for Unesco to  undertake the complete study at once, but he saw no  reason why 1t should not make an impact in slow and  steady stages. He suggested that, by engaging in  this project, Unesco could promote an atmosphere of  peace, sanity and goodwill,
(5) Mr. LEE (United States of America) said that, at  the meeting of the Executive Board when this resolu  tion had been discussed, the feeling had been that, as  unfortunately the idea of peaceful co-operation had a  political connotation, Unesco would be advised not to  embark on any work connected with it, in case it  became embroiled in political matters which would  yield no useful practical results. He reminded the  meeting thai, at its seventh session, the General  Conference had appointed a Committee which was  seeking a meuns of approach by Unesco in the field  of co-operation. The basic purpose of co-operation  was expressed in Unesco's programme as a whole.
(6) He proposed that the Committee should abide by  the decision of the Executive Board and not recommend  this resolution to the General Conference.
(7) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) said that every-  one sympathized with the idea behind the resolution,  as it would encourage the belief that a time would  come when there would no longer be racial discrimi-  nation. However, he supported the United States  delegate for the reasons which Mr, Lee had given,  Research in this finld went beyond technical problems  and extended into the domestic and foreign policies of  countries. Unesco could not undertake a study with-  out examining all the United Nations and Member  States in the light of the United Nations Charter, a  formidable task. He hoped that resolution 3.4 in  the programme of the Department of Social Sciences  would be sufficient to take care of the main activities  in the field.
(8) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) pointed out that  the resolution was in two parts and asked for an  explanation of the difference between the second part  of this resolution and resolution 3,4 in the programme  of the Department of Soclal Sciences.
(8) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences) replied that resolution 3.4 proposed that  work begun on certain projects should be continued.  Other more specific activities were being proposed  for 1955-56, which, if approved by the General    ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  Conference, would gradually help to throw light on the  elements of the very complicated problem. There was  no proposal to embark on a study of the problem  itself.
(10) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) would vote in favour of the  proposal of the delegate of the United States of  America on technical grounds and because he felt that  the draft resolution proposed by the delegation of India  was outside the compass of Unesco's current pro-  gramme. He recalled that the preamble to Unesco's  Constitution referred explicitly to the wish of Member  States to find peaceful means of resolving tensions,  and that had been the spirit to which the Mexican  Government's delegations to organs and agencies of  the United Nations had consistently conformed. Never-  theless, he felt that Unesco had no adequate means at  its disposal to implement the draft resolution of the  delegation of India.
(11) The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the proposal that  the Committee should abide by the decision of the  Executive Board and not recommend the resolution  contained in document 8C/DR/5 to the General  Conference.
(12) The proposal was adopted by 9 votes in favour,
1 against and 2 abstentions.  DR/8: Race Relations
(13) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) said that the  Executive Board had strongly recommended this  resolution to the General Conference.
(14) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences) remarked that the resolution fitted in with  the projects included in paragraphs 174-180 of the  programme of the Department of Social Sciences. The  Committee had already discussed these projects and  had recommended that they be given a high priority.  The Secretariat considered that the formulation of a  work plan was possible over a Wide field, but, as it  had already embarked on its programme, did not  want to include projects having budgetary implications,  In the past, pamphlets had been produced which had  now reached a circulation of a quarter of a million  copies in various languages. The work of translating  these pamphlets into yet more languages could be  increased and, if the necessary sums were pooled  with those for other translation work, it would only  be necessary to ask for a further $8,000 for the  period 1955-56.
(15) Further, work in schools could be extended, For  that purpose, the Departments of Education and Social  Sciences would have to convene a conference of  educators, social scientists and educational adminis-  trators to consider at what age it would be best to  introduce teaching directed against racial discrimi-  nation and prejudice. The budget estimate for this  work amounted to $11,182.
(16) Mr. LEE (United States of America) thought that,  as this subject had been of continuous concern to  Unesco from the first, it was fitting that work should  be continued. After an examination of the practical  application of the efforts made in this ares  - 762 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON  he recommended slight changes to the wording  of the resolution.
(17) The new wording would be as follows:  "Bearing in mind that discrimination, as defined  in Article II of the Universal Declaration of Hum..a  Rights, on the basis of race, colour, sex, language,  religion, political or other opinion, national or social  origin, property, birth or other status is one of the  greatest dangers to peace and to human dignity, noting  that Unesco has already taken some commendable  steps in producing helpful publications on the subject  of race and race relations, regretting that discrimi-  nation in very ugly forms continues to vitiate rela-  tions between human beings in certain areas of the  world, the General Conference calls upon all Member  States and National Commissions of Unesco to  eradicate in all possible ways the evil of discrimina-  tion and authorizes the Director-General, in carrying  out Unesco's programme, to give special attention  to measures designed to eliminate suchdiscrimination’,
(18) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) remarked that the  Indian proposal contained in document 8C/DR/8 had  a definite purpose, which was to give particular  emphasis to the racial aspect of discrimination, and  he proposed that the resolution should be left as it  stood.
(19) The CHAIRMAN put the United States proposal  to the vote. The proposal is rejected by 2 votes in  favour, 7 against and 2 abstentions.
(20) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) felt it  essential to seek further enlightenment from the  Committee. A work plan had been proposed; it was  not final and was liable to readjustment. But it would  be illogical to adopt a programme as it stood and then  to refuse approval of the appropriations necessary to  carry it out.
(21) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) concurred in the remarks  of the Assistant Director-General, If publications on  racial questions had been given a high priority, it  would be illogical to cut the appropriations requested.  Those publications were of great help in combating  racial prejudice.
(22) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) wondered whether,  as the contents of the resolution were approved by  the Committee, the project could be fitted into the  programme of the Department of Social Sciences  without further budgetary expense. It was certain  that these projects had a high priority.
(23) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences) agreed that the proposed project could be  fitted into the Department's programme and that it  would have a high priority but reminded the Commit-  tee that it would be necessary to increase the budget  estimates if this were done.
(24) In answer to a question from Mr. ABDEL-  RAHMAN (Egypt) who asked what the present total  budget was, Mrs. MYRDAL replied that the con-  tracts for two new pamphlets with cost of printing  would amount to between $3,000 and $4,000. Person-  nel costs would amount to a total of approximately    PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VI-18  $37,000 for each of the years 1955 and 1956 over the  whole project, while programme costs would amount  to $35,000 in 1955 and $30,000 in 1956.
(25) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  pointed out that the project on race relations was only  part of a whole, To finance the whole would require  the sum indicated in paragraph 180, plus the cost of  printing the two booklets.
(26) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Programme  and Budget) gave details of the budget for this project
2 manuals $2,820, information on the campaign  $1,000, 2 brochures $2,940, comparative research  approximately $1,000. Total: $7,760. To which  would have to be added personnel costs, which took  up half the total amount (27% of the Social Sciences  budget) allocated to the whole project (3.5) = $26,000  for the two years,
(27) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) hoped that the  Committee would be prepared to vote an adequate  sum,
(28) The Executive Board's proposal to allocate  $19,192 for the two years to the Resolution on Race  Relations contained in document 8C/DR/8 was put to  the vote and adopted by 9 in favour, 1 against and 2  abstentions.  DR/13: Continuation of subsidy to the International  Society of Criminology
(29) Mrs, PECSON (Executive Board) said that the  Executive Board had considered the activities outlined  in this resolution not sufficiently close to those of  Unesco, and therefore did not recommend adoption of  the proposal.
(30) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences) added that the proposal implied a subvention  of $1,000 a year.
(31) The recommendation of the Executive Board was  put to the vote and adopted by 8 in favour, 1 against  and 2 abstentions.  DR/21: Resolutions on International Understanding
(32) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) informed the  Committee that the Executive Board had taken this  draft resolution in four parts. The first part was  mede up of the proposal to hold two seminars in
1955-56 and to disseminate Gandhian ideas and tech-  niques. The Board had asked that this resolution  should be resubmitted at the ninth session of the  General Conference,
(33) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences) explained that this part fitted in with project
3.4, Social Sciences, paragraphs 148-150 which had  been worked out on the basis of a previous resolution  submitted by the Indian National Commission.Gandhian  techniques were one (J the methods to be studied. The  new resolution went further in proposing seminars  that would cost 820,000 to $30,000 each or, if run  on the lines of regional seminars, $8,000 each.  - 763 -   VI-18 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET
(34) Mr. LEE (United States of America) proposed  that the recommendation of the Executive Board be  accepted,
(35) The proposal seconded by Mr. COWELL(Umted  Kingdom) was put io the vote and adopted by 9 in  favour, 1 against and 2 abstentions,
(36) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) said that the  Execuiive Board had asked that the second part -  paragraph 2 of ui° draft resolution - on exploring the  possibilities of translaucn of Gandhian literature,  could be recommended, on the understanding that  there would be no financial imp. cations,
(37) At the suggestion of the delegate of the United  Kingdom, seconded by the delegates of Norway and  Belgium, that this recommendation be accepted, it  was put to the vote and carried by 9 in favour, none  against and 1 abstention,
(38) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) said that the  third part of the resolution (page 2), authorizing the  Director-General to bring out a publication embody-  ing the views of leading statesmen of the world,  entitled "War and Peace", had not been recommended  by the Board.
(39) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences) said that this proposal had no relation to  any of the special projects included in the 1955-56  programme. A suggestion along the same lines had  been made by a working party at the previous session  of the General Conference. A circular letter sent  round afterwards had received only 10 answers, of  which 3 were in the negative, She considered that  the views of Member States would have to be taken  into account, with printed statements by leading  statesmen, involving much work of analysis and  comparison, The total estimate for this wider  proposal would be $17,000.
(40) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) said that the resolution  was not meant to refer to printed statements, It was  proposed to invite living statesmen to make their  confession of faith on the most vital problems of the  day.
(41) The proposal by the delegate of the United States  of America, supported by the delegate of the United  Kingdom, to accept the recommendation of the  Executive Board was put to the vote and adopted by
8 in favour, 1 against and 3 abstentions.
(42) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) said that the  last part of resolution No. 21, referring to a sub-  vention of $3,000 for library and other equipment for  a Delhi School of International Relations, had been  found by the Executive Board to be inadmissible  under existing regulations.
(43) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences) agreed with the Executive Board's decision  She suggested that the Government of India might  obtain technical aid for this school under the  new resolution in the programme, paragraphs
(44) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) reminded the meeting  that it had agreed to the assistance of thee Institutes  in the German Federal Republic, and had that morning  considered a subvention, contract or loan to the  interim committee of the International Computation  Centre. There was therefore surely no reason to  exclude a subvention to the Delhi school,
(45) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Programme  and Budget) explained that Unesco vas empowered to  grant subventions only to (1) internitional non-  governmental organizations; (2) irtergovernmental  organizations; (3) organizations 0. preparatory  committees set up in implementation of a specific  resolution passed by the General Conference,
(46) Mr. LEE (United States of America) proposed  the acceptance of the recommendation of the Executive  Board,
(47) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) seconded the proposal,  which was put to the vote and adopted by 10 in favour,
1 against and 1 abstention.  Draft resolutions affecting the Department cf Cultural  Activities  DR/6 and DR/17;: Dissemination of Asian and African  culture in the West
(48) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural  Activities) said that the Executive Board had takenthe  Indian delegation's draft resciutions contained in  documents 8C/DR/6 and 8C/DR/17 together. The  Board's view had been that the second of the docu-  ments tended more to specific action, whereas the  first might be regarded as a general recommendation,  The ‘3oard had concentrated on the second document,
(49) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) said that the several  items in the two documents were part ot Unesco's  normal commitments.
(5N\ Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural  Activities) explained that the Board's decisions on the  various items in the draft resolutions had differed, It  had approved the first item in DR/17, which in fact  contained two distinct proposals: (1) the reproduction  of works of art, which came under the regular pro-  gramme and thus involved no new expenditure; and
(2) the publication of "popular series of various arts"  of the countries of Asia and Africa, about which it  was rather difficult to reach any conclusion. On the  budgetary side, an appropriation of $8,000 was  suggested for 1956 and nothing for 1955.
(51) Mr. CABOUAT (France), seconded by Mr. LEE  (United States of America), asked that the item be  transferred to the general resolution on the 1857-58  programme,
(52) The proposal was adopted by 9 votes to 2 with  one abstention.
(53) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural  Activities) then commented on the second item In  DR/17, dealing with art films and children's films,  - 764 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  referring the meeting to document 8C/5 Corrigendum  on art films (paragraphs 162 a - 162 h, Mass Com-  munication) and to document 8C/5 paragraphs 143-
145 on children's films, It would be apparent from  the pas-ages he had indicated that the adoption of the  resolution by the Conference would have no budgetary  implications.
(54) This item 1n the Indian resolution (document
8C/DR/17) was referred back for further consideration,
(55) Mr. Thomas said that the third item In the  Indian draft resolution was not recommended by the  Executive Board. The type of activity involved was  the business of the International Music Council. As  far as oriental inusic was concerned, estimates for  arrangement, annotating and distribution alone would  account for $8,000 a yer .
(56) It was decided to accept the view of the Executive  Board.
(57) With regard to the fourth item - the establish-  ment of a science museum in India - Mr. THOMAS  (Director, Department of Cultural Activities) noted  that detailed estimates ‘were given, reaching a total  of $42,000 a year plus the cost of a fellowship  payable by the Exchange of Persons Service. The  project was not recommended by the Executive Board,
(58) Mr. CABOUAT (France) asked whether there  was no possibility of including the project in the  existing programme.
(59) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural  Activities) replied that this was not impossible as  regards the fellowship, but no provision had been  made for the despatch of an expert and the provision  of equipment worth $30,000.
(60) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) stressed the importance  of the project andthe value of any assistance given  to it in the programme.
(61) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) suggested that  the Director-General should be recommended to give  ali the assistance possible within the existing  programme and budget.
(62) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural  Activities) thought the intention of the Egyptian dele-  gate was that all the possibilities of the existing budget  be first exhausted, and recourse be had thereafter to  the Government of India for the balance, Within the  existing budget ceiling the sole possibility open was  the provision of a fellowship. It was not possible to  purchase and supply equipment. It might be possible  to second an expert on museums for service in India  but science museums were a very specialized field of  museum work, which made the prospects of carrying  out such a mission under the existing budget  problematical,
(63) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) pointed out that there  was little in common between experts on science  museums and on ordinary museums.
(64) Mr. LEE (United States of America) proposed    vi-18  that the recommendation of the Executive Board be  accepted,
(65) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) seconded the  proposal.  {66) Mr. CABOUAT (France) enquired the cost of an  expert mission on museums not forming part of the  regular staff of the Secretariat,
(67) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural  Activities) explained that, on average, the cost of  sending one expert on a year's mission to a particular  country was $12,000. He agreed with the delegate of  Belgium that the minimum length for a mission of  sclence museum experts was six months.
(68) The motion of the delegates of the United States  of America and Norway that the recommendation of  the Executive Board be followed was adopted by 5  votes to 3, with 2 abstentions.
(69) On the fifth item in the Indian draft resolution,  Mr, THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural  Activities) said that the proposed work was one of the  normal activities of the International Theatre Institute,  a non-governmental organization recognized by Unesco.  Accordingly, in his view, no budgetary implications  were likely to arise. The Executive Board had felt  that the activity was desirable but outside the normal  programme of Unesco and on that account it was not  recommended.
(70) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) moved that the Com-  mittee accept the recommendation of the Executive  Board.
(71) This proposal was adopted by 8 votes to 1, with
1 abstention.
(72) The sixth item in the draft resolution, said Mr.  THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural Activities),  had been recommended for adoption by the Executive  Board. The Secretariat proposed to refer the project  to the International Council for Philosophy and Huma-  nistic Studies, a non-governmental organization  recognized by Unesco. A contract for $2,000 with  the Council would, however, be necessary.
(73) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) enquired whether  the proposed institute would be an international one,
(74) Mr, JUNANKAR (India) replied that it would be  open to any countries interested, but that the study it  would be set up for was a specific one.
(75) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) reminded the  meeting that the cost of such an institute would be  high. Would it be run on the lines of the Institute  of African Studies 1n London?
(76) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) asked where 1t  was proposed to establish the institute, Similar  institutes already in existence should be taken into  account. Were they inadequate?
(77) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural  - 765 -   VvI-18 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  Activities) pointed out that the sixth item in the  Indian draft resolution provided for an investigation  and report.
(78) After a discussion whether it was possible to  consider the location of the institute at that stage, Mr.  ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) said that Unesco was mere-  ly asked to take the first steps in promoting a study  of the need for such an institute,
(79) The delegate of India proposed that the recom-  mendation of the Executive Board be adopted. The  delegates of Egypt and France seconded the proposal,  which was adopted by 6 in favour, none against and 4  abstentions.
(80) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) said that the  Executive Board was interested in itein 7 of the draft  resolution, on exploring the possibilities of establish  ing a regional laboratory of research into preserva-  tion of monuments and works of art, but would like to  see the outcome of the proposal at present in the  programme for an international research centre,  before considering this new suggestion.
(81) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural  Activities), dealing with item 7 of the Indian draft  resolution, said that there was a scheme for an  institut: for the conservation of monuments and works  of art, but not for a regional laboratory in South East  Asia. The expert mission could be provided under  the heading of aid to Member States (paragraphs 145-
(82) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) said that his delegation  did not feel that the proposal as it stood in the pro-  gramme met the requirements they had in view, and  had therefore submitted this draft resolution,
(83) Mr. LEE (United States of America)proposed  that the recommendation of the Executive Board be  adopted.
(84) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) seconded the  motion, which was put to the vote and adopted by 8  in favour, 1 against and 1 abstention.  DR/25: Cultural Activities
(85) Mr. THOMAS (Direztor, Department of Cultural  Activities) said that the Executive Board had recom-  mended the adoption of the proposal, which involved  little or no expenditure and was calculated to foster  agreements among art publishers for the exchange of  photographic blocks.
(86) A motion, proposed by :ne delegations of  Belgium and the United States of America, that the  conclusions of the Executive Board be accepted, was  adopted by 10 votes to nil, with 1 abstention.  DR/26: Index Translationum
(87) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural  Activities) said that the resolution was recommended  by the Executive Board, its object being to continue  the annual publication of the Index Translationum    beyond 1955. In the Corrigendum to the proposed  programme and budget (document 8C/5) (paragraphs
83 a - 83 c, Cultural Activities) an appropriation of  $10,000 was shown for 1955. The budgetary impli-  cations of the Italian proposal for 1956 would be a  sum of $10,000, plus one new P.1 post, or a total of  approximately $16,500, including indirect and  incidental expenses.
(88) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) spoke in favour of the  Italian resolution,
(89) Mr. CABOUAT (France) having moved that the  recommendation of the Executive Board be followed,  the motion was adopted by 3 votes to mil, with 3  abstentions.  DR/27: The Venetian School of Palladian Architecture
(90) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural  Activities) reported that the Executive Board had not  been in favour of the proposal.
(91) Mr. CABOUAT (France), seconded by Mr,  FLORKIN (Belgium), endorsed the Executive Board's  decision, with the proviso that the draft resolution  should figure among the projects on which the decision  was to be left to the Director-General.
(92) Mr. LEE (United States of America) thought it  would be more appropriate for the Italian Government  or National Commission to ask Unesco to hold this  meeting. He approved the recommendation of the  Executive Board.
(93) The delegate of Israel seconded that proposal  and it was adopted unanimously.  DR/30: International Association of the Plastic Arts
(94) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) said that the  Executive Board considered that this draft resolution,  which was without budgetary implications, merely  strengthened provisions already included in the  programme, and could therefore be passed on to the  General Conference.
(95) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) proposed that  the draft resolution should be rejected. A proposal  that had been adopted did not need strengthening.
(96) The delegate of the United States of America  seconded the proposal, which was adopted.  DR/31: Manuscripts in Europe relating to the  Histories of Latin America and Asia
(87) The Executive Board, said Mrs. PECSON  (Executive Board), recommended that this proposal  should be referred for examination to the International  Council for Philosophy and Humanistic Studies so that  a concrete and detailed programme could be presented  to the General Conference at its ninth session.
(98) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural  Activities) explained that the object of the Japanese  draft resolution was to extend to Asia the arrangements  - 766 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON  already made for Latin America. The cost of the  project for the two-year period 1955-56 would be  $8,000 a ; car, making $16,000 in all.
(99) A point emerging from the discussion that fol-  lowed was that the Latin American project had been  given a lower priority.
(100) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) proposed the inclusion  of an cxplicit statement that the Executive Board's  suggestion did not modify the Japanese proposal,
(101) Mr, THOMAS (D+rector, Department of Cultural  Activities) added that the adoption of the project would  not affect the remainder of the programme and budget.
(102) The draft resolution was approved.  DR/41: Measures for the Developraent of Drama and  the Spread of Popular Interest it. the Theatre
(103) Mr, THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural  Activities) said that the Executive Board had approved  the draft resolution, whi:h merely proposed an  invitation to Member States and had no budgetary  implications.
(104) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) moved the adoption  of the Board's conclusions.
(105) Adopted by 8 votes to nil, with 2 abstentions,  DR/45: Publication of a Compilation of Copyright  Laws in Spanish
(106) Mr, THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural  Activities) said tnat what had originally been con-  templated had been the publication in extenso of an  English edition. The cost would be $4,000. and the  French version would probably require another $3,950.  The original intention had been to issue an abridged  version in Spanish. The draft resolution proposed by  Spain amounted to a request for the publication of a  Spanish version of the work in extenso, which would  require $4,000,
(107) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) remarked that  this was a highly technical matter, What would be  the legal validity of a Spanish translation?
(108) The CHAIRMAN replied that the luternational  Copyright Convention existed in Spanish and was of  equal standing in all three languages.
(109) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) recalled that the publi-  cation of the compendium in all three languages had  already been approved in the programme; he object-  ed to the suggestion that the full collection should not  be published in Spanish. A Spanish versicn of the  complete corpus of legislation would greatly assist  governments in adapting the copyright laws of their  respective countries to the provisions of the  Convention, and would furnish them with useful  references,
(110) The delegate of the United States of America  seconded the draft resolution contained in document    PROGRAMME AND BUDGET Vi-18
8C/DR/45, which was adopted by 9 votes to nil, with
(111) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural  Activities) indicated that the Executive Board had  recommended that this resolution be passed to the  lulzrnational Council of Museums (ICOM).
(112) On the motion of the delegate of the United  States of America, seconded by the delegate of the  United Kingdom, the Executive Board's recommenda-  tion was approved by 9 votes to 1, with labstention.  DR/3: World Culture, Science and Education Week  and Unesco Awards
(113) As the Executive Board had not approved the  first part of the project, Mr. THOMAS (Director,  Department of Cultural Activities) explained that the  cost of the meeting would be. $6,000. That would lay  a fairly heavy burden upon Member States.
(114) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) opposed the  proposal contained in document 8C/DR/3. if there  were to be a culture week, there might be some  danger lest culture were not regarded as necessary  during the rest of the year, Nothing would be gained  by the proposal.
(115) The proposal was rejected by none in favour,
10 against and 1 abstention.
(116) Regarding the Unesco awards (second part of  the proposal in document 8C/DR/3), which had also  not been approved by the Executive Board, Mr,  THOMAS (Director, Departme.t of Cultural Activities)  pointed out that the project was perfectly within the  scope of tie Department of Cultural Activities, Unesco  would be required to select the panel of judges but the  provision of the prizes would be the business of  Member States or even of private individuals, Unesco  would only have to supply the medals and diplomas.  On the 2nalogy of experience with the Kalinga Prize,  it was probable that the budget for the project would  be in the neighbourhood of $4,540 a year.
(117) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) «aid that  prizes were not in ravour in his country. The field  was rather large and Unesco prizes might soon debase  the currency. Genius should shine with its own  brilliance. The proposal should be postponed for  further considerat:on.
(118) Mr. LEE (United States of America) said that,  although prizes were appreciated in the United States,  he seconded the proposal of the delegate of the United  Kingdom, because Unesco had work of higher priority  on hand,
(119) The proposal to defer consideration of the  second part of draft resolution No.3 was put  to the vote and adopted by 10 in favour,  none against and 1 abstention.  - 767 -   VI-18 ADVISORY  Draft Resolutions affecting the Department of Mass  Communication  DR/10 International Students Correspondence
(120) The Executive Board could not recommend this  proposal in its present form,
(121) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  munication) recalled that, at its last Congress, the  Universal Postal Union had rejected the same pro-  posal by 35 votes to 21. Unesco had no competence  to make recommendations to UPU but could approach  its own Member States to secure their support for  the project at the UPU Congress in 1957,
(122) The meeting agreed unanimously with the sug-  gestion, made by the delegate of the United States of  America, that the recommendation of the Executive  Board be accepted.  DR/11: United Nations Stamps honouring Unesco
(1.23) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) : aid that the  E<-cutive Board had not been able to accept paragraph
1, as the postage stamp In question was already in  preparation, With regard to paragraph 2, the Umted  Nations Postal Admimstration could not return the  proceeds of the issue to Unesco.
(124) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  m nication) said that the Director-General had  already approved the design of the proposed Unesco  <t imp to be put on sale, but the scheme outlined in  th Austrian resolution could not be put into effect,  al*hough the stamp sold bore Unesco's name, no  part of the proceeds could be passed to the  Or gamzation.
(125) The delegare of the United Kingdom proposed  that the recommendation of the Executive Board be  a cepted,
(126) Agreed.  DR/16: Encouragement of International Co-operation  in the Field of Educational Films
(127) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) said that the  Executive Board recommended the appropriation  asked for,
(128) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  munication) explained that the International Council  for Educational Films had in hand the compila‘ion of  a dictionary of technical terms which the Secretariat  was to reproduce in mimeograph form. To complete  the preparation of the dictionary, an appropria:lon of  $1,000 was advisable.
(129) Count von HARDENBERG (German Federal  Republic) proposed that the recommendation of the  Executive Board be followed,
(130) Mr. BOW (Canada) questioned the word "appor-  t.on", inthe last paragraph. Was the money to be given  by subvention, contract, or in what form?  COMMITTEE ON     PROGRAMME AND BUDGET
(131) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  munication) said that the sum was for miscellaneous  expenses which were to be covered by a contract,
(132) Mr. COWELL (Umted Kingdom) enquired  whether the Director-General had received an inde-  pendent application from the International Council for  Educational Films before this resolution was submit-  ted, whether it had been rejected, and, if s”, why?
(133) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  munication) explained that the Secretariat had given  the International Council for Educaticnal Films  certain assurances but, as the proposed programme  and budget had already been drawn up, the request  for the requisite appropriations could not at that  stage be made by the Secretariat.
(134) On the motion of the delegates of the German  Federai Republic and Belgium that the decision of the  Executive Board be accepted, the draft resolution was  rejected. The voting being 4 in favour to 4 against,  with 3 abstentions, the Chairman exercised his  casting vote in favour of rejection in view of the  number of abstentions.  DR/19: Mass Communication
(135) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  munication) asked that the draft resolution be taken  paragraph by paragraph, as it covered three matters  on whica the Executive Board had giventhree different  decisions
(136) First item The establishment of an inter-  national film lending library, which the Hoard had  felt it impossible to incorporate in the programme,  was an important project but required very large  funds. At Unesco headquarters, a s.nall sample  film library was maintained and an extremely com-  prehensive card index. International exchanges of  educational films could be facilitated, which would be  an excellent thing, but 'f it were a matter of estab-  lishing a full-scale film library, the cost would be  $14,249 in 1955 and $14,373 in 1956.
(137) On the motion of the delegate of the United  Kingdom that the Executive Board's conclusions be  adopted, the first item in the Indian draft resolution  was rejected by 9 votes to 1,
(138) Second item: The proposal to establish a  research centre "for adaptation of scripts to modern  methods of printing", Mr. DESJARDINS (Department  of Mass Communication) continued, had been rc jected  by the Executive Board. The Secretariat had taken  the wording of that part of the resolution to mean the  adaptation of ancient written characters to modern  printing methods, but might have mistaken the  matter. It would be possible to make world-wide  contracts with the Graphic Arts Foundation, the cost  of which would total $6,000.
(139) On ihe motion of the delegate of Norway, the  Committee, by 10 votes to 1, followed the Executive  Board in rejecting the proposal.
(140) Third itein: Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of  - 768 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON  Mass Communication) said that this item had been  adequately handled for years past by the Department  of Mass Communication. At the moment the Radio  Division had arrangements with 115 countries for  exchanges of programmes. There was a clearing  house system for educational, scientific and cultural  programmes and a description of these facilities was  to be found in paragraph 137 of the chapter on Mass  Communication, It could therefore be claimed that  the recommerdation was already covered by the  PROGRAMME AND     BUDGET VI-19  provisions of the programme and, in any case the  Executive Board had decided that nothing ought to be  done about it,
(141) On the motion of the delegate of the United  States of America that the conclusions of the Executive  Board be accepted, item 3 was rejected by 7 votes tc
1, with 1 abstention.  The meeting rose at 7 p.m.  NINETEENTH MEETING
12 November 1954 at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman’ Me. GARDNER DAVIES (Australia)  ITEM 1.3 OF TUE AGENDA DISCUSSION OF DRAFT RFSOLU-  TIONS SUBMITTED DY MEMBER STATES (continued)  DR/20: Education
(1) The CHAIRMAN called upon Mr. Desjardins to  explain the effect this resolution would have on the  programme of the Department of Mass Communica-  tion and whether there would be any budgetary  implications.  {2) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  munication) said that the Executive Board had  accepted the draft resolution proposed by the dele-  gation of Indja, He considered that it made a  contribution to the work of Unesco and came within the  scope of its programme for the coming period; \t  had no budgetary implications,
(3) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) did not think  that anyone would oppose the resolution but wondered  what effect it would have. As it was worded, it gave  the impression that the Director-General had over-  looked the contributions of the Asian and African  countries. In addition, he wondered whether the  resolution would prove useful, as the Director-  General was already doing work in that field.
(4) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) wished to remove any  feeling of apprehension with regard to the resolution,  which had not been intended to convey that the  Director-General had neglected certain parts of the  world, The Government of India had confidence in  the Direcior-General as custodian of the interests of  all countries. With regard to the evolution of human  rights, he thought that insufficient emphasis had been  put on the efforts made by the Asian and African  countries and was suggesting that an addition should  be made to the existing material emphasing  the wo:k being done in those parts of the  world.
(5) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) proposed amending the  wording of the resolution by adding the words "as well  as other countries’ after the words "the Asian and  African countries”,
(6) The CHAIRMAN thought that, 1f that addition  were made, ‘he resolution would lose its purpose.
(7) There being no further comments, he put to the  vote the proposal that a decision be taken to recom-  mend to the Programme and Budget Commission the  arnendment proposed by the delegate of Israel. The  proposal was adopted by 7 votes in favour, 1 against  and 2 abstentions,  {8) The CHAIRMAN then asked whether the Committee  was prepared to forward the resolution to the Pro-  gramme and Budget Commission in view of the  recommendation made by the Executive Board.
(9) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) was surprised at the  wording: "Authorizes the Director-General,..".
(10) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  thought that the Indian resolution could be regarded  as a general direction for special consideration by  the Director-General in the execution of the 1955-56  programme.
(11) The Committee agreed to signify its approval  of the spirit of the resolution and to suggest that the  Director-General should use it as a guide when  considering the programme for 1955-56.  DR/22: Mass Communication  {12) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) stated that the  Executive Board did not recommend this resolution,
(13) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  munication) considered the resolution was not very  - 769 -