13 November 1954 at 10.50 a.m.  Chairman : Mr. AL-HANI (Iraq)  ADOPTION OF AGENDA (document 8C/DIV/24)
(1) The agenda was adopted without comment.  ITEM 10.2 OF REVISFD AGENDA: CONSIDERATION OF  RFPORTS PRESENTED BY MEMBER STATES FOR 1952-53
(2) The CHAIRMAN said that the Conference had  provided eight meetings for the accomplishment of  the Committee's work Fifty of the reports had been  submitted within the prescribed time and appeared,  in the three working languages, in the printed  documents 8C/4; five had been received subsequently  and appeared as roneographed documents 8C/4 in the  original language only. Another one (Denmark) had  Just been received and was being reproduced, also  in its original language. Although not obliged to do  so by the resolution adopted by the General  Conference at its seventh session, the Committee  might nevertheless wish to examine those last reports.
(3) Mr. FRANCOVICH (Director of the Regional  Office for the Western Bemisphere) said that the  Director-General would be unable to be present, as  he had to attend another meeting, and had appointed  Mr Francovich as his representative.
(4) He went on to say that the Secretariat had just  received the report from Polan* and asked whether
1t was to be mimeographed.
(5) The CHAIRMAN asked the Committee to decide  whether 1t wished to discuss all ‘he reports,  including that submitted by the Government of  Poland, which was in French.
(6) Mr McCULLOUGH (United States of America),  supported by Sir Kenneth GRUBB (United Kingdom},  proposed that the Committee should discuss both the  printed reports and the roneographed reports,  including the one from the Polish Government,
(7) The proposal was adopted.
(8) In reply to the delegate of the United States of  America, the CHAIRMAN said that it would not be  possible for the roneographed reports to be  translated in time, they would have to be studied in  their original language.
(9) Sir Kenneth GRUBB (United Kingdom), referring  to the question of distribution of work, suggested that  the Committee be divided into five small groups,  arranged SO as not to contain representatives of the    countries whose reports were to be discussed.
(10) Mr. FRANCOVICH (representing the Director-  General) said that on previous occasions work had  been divided among working groups. Member States"  reports had bern split up into groups as follows: two  for English ones, two for French ones and one for  Spanish ones. The same system, already used at  other Conference meetings and which had given good  results, could be adopted on that occasior
(11) The CHAIRMAN asked whether members had all  read the reports, or whether it was considered  advisable to set up the working groups proposed by  the delegate of the United Kingdom. He drew  attention to the plan of work (document 8C/DIV/24)  which was being distributed.
(12) Mr. McCULI OUGH (United States of America)  said that he had read the reports, but only in a general  way. He thought that the Committee's work would be  most useful to the Conference if the reports were  studied 1n detail by working groups.
(13) The CHAIRMAN asked members to state the  languages in which they wished to work.
(14) The indications given were as follows  Austria - absent Iraq - English  Cambodia - French Luxembourg - absent  Dominican Turkey - absent  Republic - Spanish South Africa - English  Ecuador - Spanish U.S.A. - English  France - French U.K. - English
(15) As there were 4 English-speaking, 2 French-  speaking and 2 Spanish-speaking delegates, it was  agreed to set up two English working groups and one  each in French and Spanish.
(16) The CHAIRMAN invited the v nrking groups to  indicate which reports they wishe… to study.
(17) On the suggestion of Mr. McCULLOUGH (United  States of America) 1t was agre d that the Secretariat  should allocate the reports among the working groups.  Each member would have about eight report to study.
(18) Mr. FRANTOVICH (representing the Director-  General) said that the p'an had been prepared on the  bas ; of experience gained at previous sessions of the  General Conference.
(19) That plan, which could be divided into two parts,  would comprise’ (A) Fa tual c nsiderations and forn  of the reports (a) date recei' ed, (b) conformity with  the propc-ed plar (c) general presentation of the  - 909 -   X-2 COMMITTEE ON REPORTS OF MEMBER BTATES  reports, and (B) Content of the reports, in which the  distribution of subjects was set forth in accordance  with Unesco's activities in different fields.  Consequently, the plan laid dc vn the dividing up of  reports by subjects, Education, Natural Sciences,  Social Sciences, Cultural Activities, etc.
(20) The activities of the national and the co-  operative organizations were also being studied.
(21) Furthermore, the plan laid down the form and  content of future reports, and the Committee could  make recommendations to improve their usefulness.
(22) He considered that the reports submitted by the  working groups should not exceed one page.
(23) Mr. HONG HOEUNG DOEUNG (Cambodia)  wanted an item of the work programme to be more  precisely indicated. Would the Committee study all  subjects country by country, or would 1t study all the  reports taken together subject by subject?
(24) Mr. FRANCOVICH (representing the Director-  General) said that, 1n the past, working groups had  referred each report back to the Committee, but  that their final report was, naturally, a general  report.
(25) Mr. Mct ULLOUGH (United States of America)  said that the delegate of Cambodia had raised an  important point. It was essential for the Committee  to have a purpose and to know whether the object of  its report was to inform the General Conference or  to guide it in its decisions on Unesco's work for the  coming two years. If the report were only for the  purpose of information, the Committee would in  effect be redoing the werk of the Secretariat, which  had already made summaries of the more important  parts of the reports.
(26) What he had in mind w.s that the Committee  might, by extracting certain guiding principles from  the reports, offer conclusions which would be of real  use to the General Conference. There were no doubt  many domains in which such action would be useful,  but an outstanding example was the development of  National Commissions, on which most of the reports  had commented.
(27) The working groups would do better and more  effective work if they knew exactly what their task  was. :
(28) The CHAIRMAN asked the Director-General's  representative to comment on the United States  delegate's remarks, which had raised an important  question concerning the plan of work.
(29) Mr. FRANCOVICH (Representative of the  Director-General) considered that a plan of work  such as was discussed by the delegations of Cambodia  and the United States of America would be very  useful. In addition to the reports, recommendations  ought to be submitted; they would prove very useful  for the future. The Secretariat welcomed with  genuine interest the suggestions made by Cambodia  and the United States of America.
(30) Mr. HONG HOEUNG DOEUNG (Cambodia)  asked the Director-General's representative to clear  up one point in the proposed plan of work, under    Section Il appeared recommendations by the  Committee concerning the form and content of future  reports, and he asked whether that system also  enabled recommendations to be made about future  activities.
(31) The CHAIRMAN, replying to the delegate of  Cambodia, said that it would be in order for such  recommendations to be made in the Committee's final  report to the General Conference, the word "content"  being understood in its broadest sense.
(32) Sir Kenneth GRUBB (United Kingdom) said that it  would follow from previous statements that each  working group should keep certain basic questions in  mind. Taking the development of National  Commissions as an example, the questions might be:
1. Was the National Commission representative  of the main educational, scientific and cultural  interests?
2. Was there contact between the National  Commission and Unesco?
3. Was the National Commission doing anything  to interest the educated public at large in the work of  Unesco”
4. What had the National Commission done to  advance the main purposes of Unesco?
(33) That method would help the groups in judging  the reports and making praciucal suggestions  concerning Unesco's future work.
(34) Mr. FRANCOVICH (Representative of the  Director-General) said that reports of Member States  should deal with the most important aspects of the  work carried out.
(35) As an example, he mentioned the report  presented by the United States of America, which  contained specific data concerning that country's  ratification of various international agreements, That  type of information was particularly useful for helping  the Committee in its work.
(36) In the same way, reports submitted by Member  States should contain suggestions tending to facilitate  the carrying into effect of resolutions adopted.
(37) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  appreciated the comments of the Director-General's  representative, but re-emphasized the need for a  plan of work which would ensure the best and most  effective results. He shared the views of the United  Kingdom delegate, whose remarks had raised in his  mind a question which the Committee might like to  consider: whether the Committee served a useful  purpose or whether it would be better in future to  rely on the Secretariat's summaries of reports. He  asked whether it would be possible for the Secretariat  to prepare a memorandum setting out first the  purpose of the Committee's work, which had never  been clearly defined, and then some guiding questions  on the lines of the United Kingdom delegate's  suggestions.
(38) Mr. HONG HOEUNG DOEUNG (Cambodia)  entirely agreed with the opinions expressed by the  United States and United Kingdom delegates.
(39) Mr. FRANCOVICH (Representative of the  - 810 -   COMMITTEE ON REPORTS  Director-General) considered that, as far as the aims  of the Committee on Reports of Member States were  concerned, resolution 30.214 approved at the fifth  session of the General Conference, should be read  out.
(40) Sir Kenneth GRUBB (United Kingdom) proposed  that the Secretariat should prepare a paper on the  OF MEMBER STATES  lines already suggested and submit 1t to the next  meeting. It would then be possible for the working  groups to be set up and start work immediately.
(41) The proposal was seconded by Mr. WIDDOWSON  (Union of South Africa) and adopted.  The meeting rose at 12.05 p. m.  THIRD MEETING
15 November 1954 at 10.30 am.  Chairman : Mr. AL-HANI (lraq)  ITEM 10.2 OF REVISED AGENDA: CONSIDERATION OF  REPORTS PRESENTED BY MEMBER STATES FOR 1952-33  (continued)
(1) The CHAIRMAN said that following the decision  taken ut the previous meeting, a list had been  p epared (document 8C/DIV/75) naming the members  + the working groups ard the reports which each  would have to study. He proposed that the delegate  of Turkey, who had just arrived, be included in the  French-speaking group The paper was before the  Committee for comment.
(2) In reply to a question from the delegate of France,  the CHAIRMAN said that each group was free to  arrange 1ts own methods of work.
(3) Document 8C/DIV/75 was approved without  further comment.
(4) Mr. FRANCOVICH (Representative of the  Director-General) announced that the report from  the Government of Brazil had just been received and  asked wnether the Committee was prepared to accept  it as it had the other reports which arrived after the  prescribed date.
(5) Mr. TUNCEL (Turkey), speaking as former  Chairman of the Committee, proposed that the report  be accepted, in accordance with the practice followed  at the previous session of the General Conference.
(6) The proposal was seconded by the delegate of  the United States of America and adopted.
(7) The CHAIRMAN said that the report was in  English ard would accordingly be assigned to one of  the English-speaking groups.
(8) He drew attention to the typewritten document  which the Secretariat had prepared following the    statements by the delegates of the United Kingdom  and the United States of America on the purpose and  task of the Committee.
(9) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  complimented the Secretariat on the document and  said that it would help to secure umformity of the  working groups' reports.
(10) The docume. was approved.
(11) The CHAIRMAN announced that the next meeting  of the Committee was due to take place on Wednesday
17 November at 3.30 p. m. He asked whether that  would give the working groups enough time to  prepare their reports, and pointed out that it  would not be necessary for all of them to be  ready for that meeting.
(12) Mr. TERAN ROBALINO (Ecuador) considered  the time too short and asked if the meeting  could be postponed until Thursday or Friday.
(13) Mr. HAZOUME (France) asked whether the  meeting could be deferred until Friday, as his  group had sixteen reports to study
(14) The CHAIRMAN said that the Secretariat  had 1.formed him that, for administrative  reasons, a meeting could be held on Thursday  but not on Friday.
(15) Mr. TERAN ROBALINO (Ecuador) said that  the report of the Spanish-speaking group could  be ready by Thursday.  The meeting rose at 11.05 a.m.  - 911 -