V1-28 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  TWENTY - EIGHTH MEETING
24 November 1954 at 10 a.m.  Chairmen : Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Australia)  CONSIDERATION OF THE REPORT OF THE EXPERT COM-  MITTEE ON EDUCATION FOR INTERNATIONAL UNDER-  STANDING AND 70-OPERATION (document 8C/DIV/80)  (continued)  CHAPTER [Il (GENERAL RECOMMENDATIONS ON FUTURE  PROGRAMMES) (page 19):
(1) The CHAIRMAN stated that in Section A, the  Expert Committee had suggested two procedures ror  co-ordination, namely, that it should either be  effected by an inter-departmental committee or that  the Director-General should be able to call on  outside assistance.
(2) Mr. DUERING (Vice-Chairman of the Expert  Committee) said thac the two suggestions made in  paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section A were not  mutually exclusive. The idea in (b) was that, since  the Executive Board was to become a body of  government representatives, it would be useful if  the Director-General could call on experts from  outside. A committee of such experts might meet  once a year to discuss general policy and advise the  Director-General, That, of course, would have  budgetary implications.
(3) The CHAIRMAN referred to the introductory  remarks under Education, on page 13. There had  been some question of making work in connexion  with international understanding the responsibility  of some definite division within the Secretariat.
(4) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) thought it obvious that  the Department of Education had the chief part to  play in all activities connected with education for  international understanding and co-operation. It  might be argued that that Department should provide  the impetus for the work of co-ordination. He  suggested, however, that such co-ordination should  be initiated from above, and urged that an immediate  representative of the Director-General would  command greater authority. Mr. François thought  that both procedures were defensible, since in fact  everything would depend on the kind of person made  responsible for the work. It would certainly be best  to leave the Director-General and his assistants  to choose that person.
(5) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) did not think that the  remarks of the French delegate were at all incom-  patible with the paragraph in question, since the  Director-General would in any case be responsible.  - 822 -
(6) Mr, ELVIN (Director, Department of  Education) said that the Director-General fully  understood the need for further steps to co-ordinate  work on international understanding. No dogrnatic  statement about the machinery required was needed,  The obvious method was to set up an inter-depart-  mental committee, possibly with the Director-  General in the Chair.
(7) The Director-General, he added, felt that  experience with outside experts had been acquired  during the previous two years, and that it would be  better to rely on internal machinery to implement  the suggestions in the report, leaving the possibility  of reverting to outside assistance later
(8) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) had grave  doubts about the need for the machinery suggested.  The activities in question constituted the main work  of Unesco, and some co-ordinat.on was required in  any case. He agreed that there was no call for  committees of experts external to the Organization,  Co-ordination could well be left to the existing  machinery.
(9) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) agreed with the  United Kingdom delegate. He reminded the meeting  that one of the arguments in favour of the new  structure of the Executive Board had been that it  would enable the Organization to have broad contacts  with a large number of experts. He therefore did  not think that a new committee of experts was  needed,
(10) Mr. LEE (United States of America) agreed  with the delegate of France that a great deal  depended on who was personally responsible for  the co-ordination in question, At the same time,  while education for international understanding was  the main business of Unesco, the Secretariat was  made up of people with varying interests and skills.  The field was a new one, offering much cpportunity  for experiment, and some co-ordination at a high  level was needed. The machinery in question  might be associated with that which would be  required to remodel the programme. For example,  a small planning unit might be set up, responsible  to the Director-General, and within that vnit, one  person might be made primarily responsible for  eduration for international understanding.
(11) He was somewhat disappointed that more  space had not been devoted in the report to major  projects to be considered by the Secretariat in  connexion with the remodelling envisaged by the  Executive Board. ;   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VI-28
(12) Generally speaking, he felt that the Committee  should recommend adoption of the suggestions made  by the Expert Committee in paragraphs (a) and (b).
(13) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) said that Section À on  page 19 started off by stressing the need for con-  centration and co-ordination. Was not that enough?  The Director-General should be left free to take  such action as he saw fit over the next two years,
(14) Chapter Ill was entitled General Recommend-  ations on Future Programmes. Would ix not be  better to head it simply General Recommendations?
(15) Mr. DUERING (Vice-Chairman of the Expert  Committee) said that the Committee had made its  recommendations with an eye to the 1957-58 pro-  gramme, and had not intended paragraph (b) to  apply to the programme for 1955-56.
(16) The Committee had been of opinion that, although  steps had been taken to co-ordinate the 1955-56  programme, not enough had been done in that  direction; hence paragraph (a).
(17) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) thought that  paragraph (a) was merely stating the obvious, and,  in so far as it might be taken to imply criticism of  the Director-General, should be deleted.
(18) The United Kingdom proposal, supported by  Belgium and Israel, to the effect that the Committee  should not endorse Section A, (a) and (b), so that the  Dire-tor-General should be free to take such action  as he might see fit, was adopted by 8 votes to 4, with
1 abstention.
(19) It was agreed to consider Section B when  discussing the future programme.  Chapter I - Unesco's methods of action
(20) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) said that most of the  comments under that heading held good for all  Unesco departments. Perhaps it would be well to  concentrate attention on the few specific suggestions  bearing on education for international understanding.
(21) Mr. DUERING (Vice-Chairman of the Expert  Committee) called attention to the second sentence  in the second paragraph of the preamble: ''While it  (the Committee) directed its attention to those  methods as they relate specifically to education for  international understanding and co-operation, it  believes that some of its recommendations and  suggestions have or may have broader validity for  Unesco.” It was true that Sections I and II were  very general in nature, stressing as they did the  need for flexibility and empiricism,
(22) Mr. LEE (United States of America) said that  it would be best to decide whether there were any  points in the report likely to affect the Committee's  recommendations on remodelling, or requiring  consideration by the Conference, and to refer the  report to the Programme and Budget Commission,
(23) Chapter I, as far as he could see,  appeared entirely consistent with the Advisory  Committee's previous recommendations,  - 823 -
(24) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) said that in  Chapter I the Expert Committee seemed to have  done more justice to certain methods of action  (fellowships and exhibitions) than to others.
(25) At the fifth session of the General Conference,  in Florence, a document had been evolved laying  down the basic programme and suggesting methods  of action, Had that document been used by the  Expert Committee ?
(26) Unesco as a whole needed a generally accepted  statement of methods (perhaps a revised version of  the fifth session document he had alluded to), In  general, he felt that the report by the Expert  Committee provided a valuable basis for a revision  of methods.
(27) He welcomed Section II, paragraph (2), to the  effect that the selection of methods must be based  largely on empirical grounds.
(28) In general, he agreed with the delegate of the  United States of America. Nothing in the report  had any implications for the budget. Hence the  document could merely be referred to the Pro-  gramme and Budget Commission for study.
(28) Mr, SOMMERFELT (Norway) agreed with the  previous speaker and with the delegate of the United  States of America,
(30) Mr. DUERING (Vice-Chairman of the Expert  Committee) said that the Committee had had the  basic programme of Unesco as a working document  in Paris.
(31) In connexion with three methods (international  seminars, fellowships, and exhibitions), the  Committee had made important recommendations.  It had hoped that those recommendations would be  endorsed by the Programme and Budget Commission  and adopted, provisionally, for the next two years.  Section I: Direct and Indirect Action, and Annex  on page 24
(32) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom), referring to  paragraph (d) on page 25, asked whether the Expert  Committee's comments on the preparation of  manuscripts implied any belief on the part of the  Committee that the Secretariat would have to be  strengthened to cope with that particular task.
(33) Mr. DUERING (Vice-Chairman of the Expert  Committee) said that the section in question had  been very cautiousiy worded.
(34) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of  Education) said the point was a somewhat delicate  one. A distinguished expert, called in to prepare  a manuscript, might be insensitive to diplomatic  requirements.
(35) There were staff members in the Secretariat  with expert knowledge, although an expert called  upon to write on a controversial subject on which he  held strong views might tend to forget that he was  also an international civil servant, Thus there  were difficulties either way. The point which the  Expert Committee was trying to make, as he  understood it, was that while, in many cases, an  expert member of the Secretariat could prepare a   vi-28 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  manuscript more quickly and more economically than  an outside expert, recourse to the Secretariat would  necessarily have budgetary implications, since to  prepare a difficult text a member of the Secretariat  would have to be freed from his normal duties.
(36) Mr, FRANCOIS (France) thought that a writer's  personality was bound to leave its mark on his  writing, and, in some cases, readers in certain  countries might be disconcerted thereby. Unesco  could circumvent that obstacle, and prosecute its  aim of offering the world a wide range of international  opinion, if it were to entrust the drafting of manu-  scripts to a group instead of to a single expert,  That method had already been tried by Unesco;  certain publications on Western and Oriental ways  of life and thought provided examples of its use.
(37) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) suggested that  a reference might suitably be made to the possibility  of having recourse to non-governmental organizations  active in the fields concerned. Such organizations  might well charge lower fees, and hence money  would be saved.
(38) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) thought that the point had  been adequately covered in paragraph (b) on page 24  (Contracts with non-governmental organizations).
(39) The CHAIRMAN felt that the sense of the Com-  mittee was that expert knowledge existed in the  Secretariat which could sometimes suitably be drawn  upon for the preparation of manuscripts, The points  made would be included in the report.  Section II - Methods in general
(40) Mr, FRANCOIS (France), referring to item
(4), pointed out that great caution was needed.
(41) It sometimes took a long while for results to  become apparent and they should not be expected to  be sensational. The times were difficult and Unesco  had in many instances to struggle against the tide;  in such cases, the paucity of immediate results  would not be a reason for giving up but on the  contrary for persevering.
(42) Referring to item (5), Mr. Frangois remarked  that the last part of the paragraph in French frankly  astonished him: ''découvrir dans les diverses  cultures les grands facteurs qui, pendant les cinq  premières années de 1'éxistence, contribuent  essentiellement à l'adoption d'une saine attitude  envers les peuples appartenant à d'autres cultures,
(43) Although some educational psychologists  regarded even the pre-natal months as being of  decisive importance in the formation of a child's  mind, Mr. François was convinced that until the  age of 5, and even after, culture meant very little  to children. The most important years in a person's  life were those from 11 to 18, as it was then that he  moulded his personality, amidst the difficulties and  stresses of the adult world he was entering. Were  there not cases of children who had been brought up  in an environment utterly unconcerned with moral  considerations but, having passed their adolescence  in a good educational atmosphere, had become  outstanding men and women?  - 824 -
(44) The French delegate concluded by stating that  the paragraph as it stood seemed to him unsuitab.e  for inclusion in a Unesco document,
(45) The CHAIRMAN said that he, too, had been  much worried about the point raised by the delegate  of France, The Secretariat must not lose heart if  the results of its surveys were negative. The work  it did was necessarily long-term,
(46) As regarded the strong views expressed by the  delegate of France in connexion with paragraph (5)  on page 8, he had listened with sympathy, The  English text seemed to bear very little resemblance  to the French.
(47) Mr. DUERING (Vice-Chairman of the Expert  Committee) explained that there were indeed  discrepancies between the English and French texts,  The section alluded to by the delegate of France in  his statement on paragraph (5) had been transferred  in a modified form to the Annex to Chapter III (page
29), under the heading: Research in Child  Psychology.
(48) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of  Education) said that the evaluation which the Expert  Committee had had in mind was of the ordinary  common-sense kind, and was not evaluation as  used by sociologists in à technical sense, It was  no more than common sense for the Secretariat to  ask itself whether its activities had produced the  results expected of them.
(49) It was agreed that the French text of Section V  of the Annex to Chapter III (Research in Child  Psychology) should be endorsed and that a statement  should be included in the report for that purpose.  Section III (page 8) - Specific methods of action  Sub-section A
(50) No comments.  Sub-section B - International seminars
(51) Mr. SOEBROTO (Indonesia) thought that three  weeks was quite long enough for a seminar, and  proposed that the recommendation made in para-  graph (3) (a) be altered accordingly.
(52) Mr. DUERING (Vice-Chairman of the Expert  Committee) said that the paragraph represented a  compromise. While agreeing that in some cases  three weeks would be enough, the Committee had  felt that the first week was always necessary for  participants to get to know each other and discuss  their problems.
(53) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) was very critical of  the system of seminars, which, in the opinion of  the French delegation, did not produce results  commensurate with the very large sums spent on  them. At their best, they benefited no more than  a handful of educators, among the millions in the  world; at the same time they monopolized the  services of Unesco officials for weeks on end, He   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRANME AND BUDGET Vi-28  himself had attended five seminars, and did not feel  that Unesco had derived any appreciable advantage  from any of them; they had not issued any worth-  while documents. The Organization had not the  means to indulge in that kind of luxury at the present  time and should give up the method in favour of that  described in paragraph 4,
(54) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of  Education) said that the Secretariat was grateful to  the Expert Committee for setting out what seminars  could be expected to do. Seminars were a means of  higher education. They were not meant to do  research or produce original documents. The most  successful were those with clearly defined subjects  of study. As an example, he would refer to a  seminar held two years ago, in Ce) .on, on the  teaching of mode -u languages. If a seminar was to  be successful, nother essential condition was that  the participants be most carefully chosen,
(55) There vas a great deal to be said for the alter-  native mentioned in paragraph (4) (c), namely, that  National Commiesions should organize seminars  for their own nations, who would all enjoy a common  background, and that Unesco should add an inter-  national flavour by sending a few staff members or  persons from other parts of the world,  {56) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) thought that the section  of the report concerned was most constructive and  that, in adopting it, emphasis should be laid on its  special claims to attention,
(57) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) wished to make  a reservation about paragraph (4) (b). It would be  difficult to find writers of the highest possible  quality and their services wou.d be costly.
(58) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) thought that the Secret-  ariat should be most careful in choosing participants  when such international seminars were organized.  He asked for clarification of the last sentence in  paragraph (4) (a) as he could not see why, if Unesco  selected participants, it should necessarily have to  pay their travelling expenses.
(59) Mr, ELVIN (Director, Department of  Education) said that the Committee meant that, if  the Director-General chose to invite participants  from different States, he would presumably have to  pay their travel costs.
(60) As regarded the point made by the delegate of  Mexico, the practice was for the Secretariat to  write to States asking them to nominate participants,  It could not veto their choice. The only way it could  help was to indicate clearly the type of qualifications  such persons ought to possess.
(61) Some highly successful national seminars had  been held of the kind mentioned in paragraph (4) (c) -  for example, a seminar in ltaly on adult education.  He hoped there would be more.
(62) Mr. PANNETON (Canada) found a discrepancy  between Mr. Frangois' severe criticisms of the  seminars and Mr, Elvin's opinion that some  of them had been successful, and felt that  further information was necessary.  - 825 -
(63) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of  Education) said that some of the seminars organized  by his Department had not justified the money spent  on them, On the other hand, the seminar in Ceylon,  although it might be considered more a meeting of  experts than a meeting for the higher education of  participants, had been outstandingly successful,  Some seminars were good, some bad, and some  indifferent, The seminar as a method should not  be condemned outright.
(64) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) asked Mr. Elvin  whether a seminar devoted to a single closely  defined subject would be a study meeting or an  educational meeting.
(65) He remarked that a number of seminars had  failed to enhance Unesco's reputation even in the  minds of some of those taking part, since all they  felt they owed the Organization was an opportunity  to travel - an attitude implying little real respect  for Unesco's achievements.
(66) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) thought that para-  graph (3) (a) should satisfy the Indonesian delegate,  since it specified four weeks as the maximum  length of a seminar.
(67) The CHAIRMAN observed that there was a  grave discrepancy between the English and French  texts of paragraph (3) (a). Perhaps, if the English  text were brought into line with the French, which  specified that seminars should not last more than  four weeks, the point raised by the delegate of  Indonesia would be taken care of.
(68) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) said that  seminars seemed to be held chiefly by the Cultural  Activities Department, and it might be well to hear  from that Department before taking a decision. He  was under the impression they had achieved some  success, for example, in the organization of  libraries in the underdeveloped countries,
(69) While recognizing that some seminars were  valuable, he was inclined to share the doubts of  the delegate of France whether their value was in  proportion to their high cost.
(70) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) asked whether it was  the general practice for Unesco to pay the travel-  ling expenses of those attending international  seminars or whether part of the cost was borne  by the individual States.
(71) Mr. KIRPAL (Deputy Director, Department  of Cultural Activities) confirmed what the delegate  of the United Kingdom had said. His Department  had much experience in organizing seminars on the  rôle of museums and libraries, and of art in  education.
(72) The seminars organized by his Department  were more than educational meetings. Often they  were meetings of experts and were followed by  concrete action, such as the creation of an inter-  national association to continue work begun at the  seminar, -
(73) A seminar had been held in Tokyo only two  months before, on the role of arts and crafts in   VI-28 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMNE AND BUDGET  education, with particular referenc# to community  development, It had been restricted to Southern  Asia and the Far East. He understood that in  general the seminar had proved a very great success,
(74) Replying to the point made by the delegate of  Mexico, Mr. Kirpal said that Unesco did not pay  travel costs. It «itrely paid the cost of providing  interpreters, document services, etc. Board and  lodging were paid for by Unesco in co-operation with  the host country.
(75) The CHAIRMAN observed that an important  point had been raised. lf seminars were just a  method of higher education, could Unesco  appropriately organize them?
(76) Mr, FRANCOIS (France) was convinced that  the seminar on museums and education, for instance,  would have lasted a week instead of a month if it had  not been held in Athens,
(77) He proposed the following resolution: "The  Advisory Committee considers that, in view of the  Organization's present limited resources, the  expenditure on seminars is too high for the results  obtained."
(78) Mr. PANNETON (Canada) feared, from the  various statements he had heard, that the seminars  were far more successful from the participants’  point of view than from that of Unesco itself,
(79) Accordingly, considering the moderate terms  of the resolution and the desire for economy behind  it, he felt inclined to give it the support of the  Canadian delegation, not in order to abolish the  seminar system altogether but to emphasize the need  for the most careful choice of subjects, participants  and place of meeting,
(80) Mr, LEE (United States of America) said that  the Committee was obviously very critical of  seminars as an institution, and it was its duty to  make that view known to the General Conference.
(81) The CHAIRMAN, agreeing, said that it would  be a pity if the Committee were to condemn all  seminars in all circumstances.
(82) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) pointed out that the  delegate of France had been criticizing seminars as  they used to be held. But all would agree that expert  meetings, as mentioned in paragraph (4) (a), were  valuable.
(83) The CHAIRMAN observed that the Committee  seemed to share the Expert Committee's doubts  about the value of seminars for higher education.  It could, he felt, endorse the Expert Committee's  recommendations, subject to the comments already  made about payment of iravel costs and the engage-  ment of writers,
(84) He asked whether the Expert Committee was  advocating a change of policy in regard to travel  costs,
(85) Mr. DUERING (Vice-Chairman of the Expert  Committee) sald that if, as suggested in paragraph
(4) (a), Unesco made the final choice of participants,  - 826 -     it would probably have to meet their travel costs.
(86) Mr, ELVIN (Director, Department of  Education) said that the practice was to indicate  to Member States the number of participants in the  seminar and the qualifications expected of them.  Then the Member States made their nominations.  The Director-General had no right of veto.
(87) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) was in favour  of keeping the present system, whereby the States  sending participants were required to pay travel  costs.
(88) It was most important that National Commis-  sions should be consulted in the choicé of participants.
(89) Mr, SILLER (Mexico) seconded the United  Kingdom delegate's suggestion, as he considered  that, if the individual States had to pay the travel  expenses of the participants, the chcice of those  to attend international seminars was likely to be  better,
(90) Mr, ELVIN (Director, Department of  Education) said that the delegate of Mexico was not  quite right. It did, unhappily, sometimes happen  that distant States nominated persons with doubtful  qualifications who for some reason happened to be  in or near the country where the seminar was to  be held.
(91) It was expressly stated in paragraph (4) that  the suggestions made were to be regarded as  experimental.
(92) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) suggested the adoption  of paragraph (4) (a) as it stood.
(93) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) agreed that the poor  results of some seminars had been partly due to  differences in the qualifications of the participants,  which had been so great that, intellectually, they  did not speak the same language and therefore could  not combine to accomplish anything constructive.
(94) He therefore thought it essential that Unesco  should have the final decision on the choice of  members of the seminars, after consultation with  National Commissions,
(95) Mr. SOEBROTO (Indonesia) thought it reason-  able to suggest, as the delegate of the United  Kingdom had done, that Member States should  continue to pay travel costs, if the seminar were  on a subject of regional interest only. But if the  seminar were on a matter of universal significance  and of general importance to Unesco as a whole, it  would be unreasonable to expect a distant State to  bear such expenses.
(96) Mr, SOMMERFELT (Norway) agreed with the  delegate of the United Kingdom in attaching consider-  able importance to consultation with National  Commissions before participants were chosen,
(97) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) agreed with the delegate  of Irdonss.ia. 11 à seminar were of genuinely  international interest, the persons chosen by  Une.co could not be asked to pay their travel costs.   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VI-28
(98) The CHAIRMAN put paragraph (4) (a) to the vote,  it being understood to mean that the Expert Commit-  tee was recommending payment of travel costs by  Unesco as an experiment, providing it could make  the final choice of participants.
(99) Paragraph (4) (a) was endorsed by 12 votes to  none, with 1 abstention.  Paragraph (4) (b):
(100) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) said that that recom-  mendation was unnecessary, since in every seminar  there were suitably qualified members of the  Secretariat available.
(101) Mr. DUERING (Vice-Chairman of the Expert  Comrnittee} said that, in the view of the Expert  Committee, there was a need for attractive publicity,  and not just factual reports. It might be possible to  engage a journalist of standing to produce the material  the Committee had had in mind,
(102) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of  Education) said that the experiment had been tried  and proved a moderate success.
(103) Mr, AVIDOR (Israel) suggested that the  Committee merely draw the attention of the Secret-.  ariat to the need for better publicity.
(104) Mr. LEE (United States of America) suggested  that the Committee should merely call attention to  the point in its report and refer the matter to the  Working Party on Mass Media.
(105) This suggestion, put in the form of a motion,  was adopted by 12 votes to none, with 1 abstention.  Sub-Section C: Fellowships (page 9):
(106) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) thought that  paragraph (5) (d) was too rigid, It was sometimes  better to let a person stay a considerable time in  his host country.
(107) Mr. W, CARTER (Chief, Exchange of Persons  Service) said that the points made in the Expert  Committee's report represented the significant facts  of the experience acquired by Unesco, The problem  had been given expert study.
(108) The problem mentioned by the delegate of  Norway existed in the case of fellowships, admini-  stered by the United Nations and other Specialized  Agencies, for older students sent abroad for  intensive training. The application form to be filled  in by the candidate was designed to ensure that only  the right kind of person was successful, In the case  of junior students the problem did not exist.
(109) Mr, FLORKIN (Belgium) agreed with  Mr, Sommerfelt, Paragraph (5) (d) imposed  needless restrictions, and might in certain  instances preclude a highly desirable develop-  ment - namely, a tour of several countries  by the same fellowship-holder, or a long  stay in one country.  - 827 -
(110) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) agreed with paragraph
(1) and the first line and a half of paragraph (2).  What was meant by a fellowship completely failing  to promote the growth of international understanding?  He disagreed with the second half of paragraph (2)  and with paragraphs (3) and (4). Nor could he agree  with the recommendations made about study and  evaluation. Ten or fifteen years would be required  before the results of the me isures outlined in  paragraph (5) could be assessed.
(111) Mrs, DOUGLAS (Canada) said that all with  experience of international fellowships would agree  thet it was a very important part of Unesco's  activities. Great care was needed in selecting the  fellows. She entirely agreed with paragraph (5) (a),  urging care in so doing. It was particularly  important that the fellow should have an adequate  knowledge of the language of his host country.
(112) Mr. DUERING (Vice-Chairman of the Expert  Committee) said that the point raised by the delegate  of Israel, in connexion with the second part of  paragraph (2), was more fully developeu in paragraph
(113) Mr, SILLER (Mexico) thought the wording of  paragraph (5) (f) was presur ptuous, for there was  no warrant for supposing that a fellowship-holder  from an underdeveloped country who spent two or  three months in a highly developed country woul  end by despising his own land He added that ‘in  his view, paragraph (5) (g), which referred tu the  selection of members of groups of students, under-  lined still more the importance of the problems  already raised in connexion with international  seminars and committees of experts.
(114) Mr. ANGELL (United States of America) was  familiar with research in that particular field, and  could not agree with the delegate of Israel. In the  United States of America much had been learnt from  a close study of what had happened to fellows after  their return home. The least Unesco could do would  be to correlate such studies with an eye to a better  selection of fellows.
(115) As regarded the point made by the delegate of  Mexico, it had recently been found, on investigation,  that in a certain case most of the fellows had  returned to their host country, It was important to  ensure that fellows did in fact return home and put  their knowledge to good use there. Fellowships  should not encourage emigration.
(116) Mr. AL-KOUSSI (Egypt) spoke as representa-  tive of a country which was greatly dependent on the  more highly developed countries. He had been in  close contact with many cases in which the fellow  had not been made happier and had not proved  useful to his country. He therefore agreed with the  delegate of the United States of America,
(117) Mr, SEDES (Rapporteur) did not agree with  the criticisms made by the delegate of Mexico.  The paragraph in question had undoubtedly been  difficult to draft, but thanks were due to the Expert  Committee for having laid emphasis on a very   vi-29 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  important aspect of the question, since it had been’  found that fellowship-holders very often lost contact  with their own country. It would be better, however,  not to use the term'denationalizing, which would be  inappropriate in the case of citizens from countries  which ranked as part of the metropolitan territory.  He recommended that the paragraph be redrafted to  make it more flexible and wider in scope,
(118) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) was satisfied with the  explanations given about paragraph (2). As regarded  paragraphs (3) and (4), he still thought it was too  early for Unesco to assess results,
(119) Mr. W. CARTER (Chief, Exchange of Persons  Service) said that Unesco was always studying its  working methods with a view to achieving better  results, It was part of Unesco's routine duties to  ascertain whether the knowledge acquired by  fellowship-holders had been of advantage both to  them and to their countries,
(120) The CHAIRMAN said that such studies were  already going on and needed no particular emphasis.
(121) It was agreed that paragraph (5) (d) should be  understood to refer exclusively to persons receiving  technical training, and not to young people.
(122) Mr, LEE (United States of America) proposed  that the Committee endorse paragraph (5) (f).
(123) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) again urged that the  proposal in paragraph (5) (f) was too strongly worded  and bore little relation to the facts; he suggested  that the Committee should therefore state that there  had been disagreement on the point.
(124) Mr. FREY (German Federal Republic)  supported the United States proposal.
(125) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) objected to the word  "denationalizing'and suggested 'Alienating instead,
(128) Mr. W, CARTER (Chief, Exchange of Persons  Service) said that paragraphs’(f), (h) and (i) all dealt  with the same problem - the adjustment of the fellow  to his host country and his readjustment on return  home. They were simply a statement of the problem.
(127) The Committee then endorsed, by 10 votes to
1, the recommendations appearing under C. Fellow-  ships, subject to the comments made in the course  of the discussion.  The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m.  TWENTY-NINTH MEETING
24 November 1954 at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman: Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Australia)  CONSIDERATION OF THE REPORT OF THE EXPERT COM-  MITTEE ON EDUCATION FOR INTERNATIONAL UNDER-  STANDING AND CO-OPERATION (document 8C/DIV/80)  (continued)  {1) The CHAIRMAN requested the Committee to  continue its examination of document 8C/DIV/80  from Sub-Section D on page 11.  D. Advisory Committees
(2) No comments,  E. International Conferences
(3) No comments.  F. Pilot Projects
(4) No comments.  G. Exhibitions
(5) Mr, FLORKIN (Belgium), alluding to the second    paragraph of Section G, where it was stated that,  "For example, it might be shown how the same  themes have been treated by artists or schools of  artists in different countries‘, remarked that the  proposal might be dangerous. What counted in  such exhibitions was not so much the theme as the  feeling behind its treatment: international affinities  could be brought out by showing that the same type  of feeling had informed work in different countries.  Mr. Florkin would be very sorry to see Unesco  arranging exhibitions on particular themes, such  as The Last Judgment, etc.
(6) As delegate of Australia, the CHAIRMAN fully  supported the remarks of the delegate of Belgium,  He asked the Committee if it wished to refer to the  point in its report.
(7) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) thought that  some reference should indeed be made to the point  in the Committee's report.
(8) On the general subject of exhibitions, he was  of opinion that the three following points should be  borne in mind:  - 828 -