CHAPTER VI vii  ADVISORY COMMITTEE  ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  FIRST MEETING  ! November 1954 at 10.30 a.m.  Chairman Mr. GARDNER DAVIFS (Australia)
(1) As the Committee had not yet elected its Chair-  man, the meeting was opened by the Head of the  Bureau of Conference Planning.
(2) Mr. MONTAGNIER (Head, Bureau of Conference  Plarning and General Services) began by reading the  list of the 15 Member States nominated by the seventh  session of the General Conference to send represent-  atives to the Advisory Committee on Programme and  Budget, and welcomed all present, He then paid a  tribute to the late Mr. Hodson, Chief of the Bureau  of Programme and Budget, who bad played a most  active part in the drafting of the Proposed Pro-  gramme and Budget for 1955-56 and had lately been  killed in a tragic accident,
(3) Mr. Montagnier went on to recall that the terms  of reference of the Committee were set forth in re-  solutions 13.1 and 13.5 of the seventh session of the  General Conference, which he then read. The Com-  mittee would have to give its opinion on the new draft  resolutions submitted by Member States. Some 30  drafts had so far reached the Secretariat and 13 had  been reproduced under the reference numbers 8C/DR/i  to 8C/DR/13,
(4) The Agenda of the Committee was given in Section  Il of document 8C/1, items 7.1 to 7.7. Mr, Montag-  nier proposed that the Committee should proceed to  elect its officers. In that connexion it would be re-  membered that, in accordance with Rules 34 and 35  of the Rules of Procedure, the Chairman of the Ad-  visory Committee on Programme and Budget or, in  his absence, the Vice-Chairman, would serve as an  ex officio member of the General Committee of the  Conference.  ITEM 7.1: ELECTION OF THE CHAIRMAN, VICE-CHAIRMAN  AND RAPPORTEUR
(5) Miss LAISE (United States of America) seconded  by Mr, JUNANKAR (India), proposed that Mr, Gard-  ner Davies (Australia) be elected Chairman of the  Advisory Committee,
(6} The proposal was adopted and Mr. Gardner Davies  took the Chair,
(7) The CHAIRMAN expressed his deep appreciation  of the henour that was being conferred upon his coun-  try and himself. First of all, he wished to thank the  Uruguayan Government and people for their hospita-  lity and kindness in receiving the Conference in their  country and allowing it to meet in the imposing pre-  cincts of the "Palacio Legislativo'. Secondly, he  wished to join in the tribute which had been paid to  Mr. William Hodson, whose death left all those con-  nected with Unesco with a very real sense of personal  loss; the draft programme and budget for 1955-56  was the result of his able and devoted service to the  Organization over a period of years and the Confer-  ence would miss him very sorely indeed,
(8) The Chairman then called for nominations for the  posts of Vice-Chairman and Rapporteur,
(9) Mr. JUNANKAR (India), seconded by Mr, SILLER  (Mexico), proposed the name of Professor Sommer-  felt (Norway) as Vice-Chairman,
(10) The proposal was adopted,
(11) Mr. JUNANKAR (India), seconded by Miss LAISE  (United States of America), proposed that Mr, Cabouat  (France) be elected Rapporteur.
(12) The proposal was adopted.  ADOPTION OF THE PROVISIONAL AGENDA: (document 8BC,'1,  Antex I, Section II, page 4)
(13) Subject to the Commttee's right to add items or  change the order of existing items in the course of  its work, the Agenda in Section Il of Annex I of docu-  ment 8C/1 was adopted,  ITEM 7.2: PRELIMINARY CONSIDERATION OF THE DRAFT  PROGRAMME AND BUDGET FOR 1955-56, BEFORE THE  OPENING OF THE SESSION (documents 8C/5 and 8C/5 Corr.)
(14) The CHAIRMAN proposed first to ask the Assist-  ant Director-General to make a general statement on  - 641 -   VI-1 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  the programme and budget policy embodied in docu-  ment 8C/5, and then to ask Mr, Rao to give a brief  technical explanation of its preparation. The Com-  mittee would then hold a general discussion on pro-  gramme policy and the budget practice implemented  in the programme.
(15) Mr, MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) con-  veyed to the Committee the regrets of the Director-  General, who had had to remain in Rio de Janeiro  and had asked him (the speaker) to present on his be-  half the Proposed Programme and Budget for 1955-
56 as given in document 8CJ5 and amended in part  by document 8C/5 Corr,
(16) In the first place, as directed by the General  Conference, the budget for the proposed programme  was drawn up at two levels. As would be seen from  paragraph 17 of the Introduction to document 8C/5  and from the comments of the Executive Board (8C/5  Add. 1, paragraph 22), the "present budgetary level"  and "higher budgetary level" were notions which  could be given at least two different interpretations,  of which one, if adopted, would have brought about  a considerable rise in the level of expenditure; it  was the other - involving a smaller increase only -  which the Director-General had in fact adopted.
(17) Mr. Maheu went on to explain that the Director-  General had conceived his programme as a single  whole and that, in his view, the projects included at  higher pudgetary level were no less important than  those coming within the limits of the present budget-  ary level, Incidentally, the Executive Board in its  comments (8C/5, Add.1, paragraph 24) had ex-  pressed the view that the total proposed programme  at both levels can and should be carried out .
(18) It should also be pointed out that almost the  whole of the sums requested at the higher budgetary  level were intended for programme operations,
4.40% of them only being expendable for general ad-  ministration and common service costs. Consider-  ing the budget as a whole (after deduction of expen-  ses for the General Conference and the Executive  Board), it would be seen that the appropriations for  general administration and common service costs,  which had amounted to 24.43% in 1953-54, had dropped  to 20.92% in the present proposed programme.
(19) Lastly, though the Director-General did not de-  sire in any way to influence the decisions of the  General Conference, he had felt that the only data  he could use for his estimate of income were:  The United Nations scale of contributions for 1954,  allowance being made for the number of Member  States in Unesco;  The anticipated percentage of unpaid contributions  accepted by the General Conference at its seventh  session for the 1953-54 budget.
(20) Turning to the structure of the programme, the  Assistant Director-General pointed out that the di-  vision into chapters corresponding to Unesco's main  fields of action - Education, Natural Sciences, Social  Sciences, Cultural Activities, Mass Communication,  etc. - had been retained. Each of these chapters  had, however, been arranged in accordance with a  uniform plan which brought out the sub-division into  two sections that was a feature of the whole pro-  gramme and constituted the framework upon which  it had been built, The Executive Board had ex-  - 642 -     pressed its satisfaction with that innovation (8C/5  Add. 1, paragraph 7).
(21) Section I comprised the general activities of the  Organization and Section II the special activities,  Among the special activities, a distinction had to be  made between planned unde:*"*kings and technical aid  supplied to Member States at their request. Those  two kinds of activities, although inspired by the same  desire to adapt the Organization's efforts as closely  as possible to the diversity of conditions encountered,  were, in fact, representative of materially different  types of operations, Fuller details could be found in  paragraphs 56 to 65 of the Director-General's Intro-  duction,
(22) As regards the actual content of the programme,  each section was sub-divided into projects. Each  project was headed by a title and preceded by a budget  summary and one or more resolutions. There were
69 projects altogether, compared with 242 in the pro-  gramme for 1953-54, which meant that considerable  concentration had been effected by the systematic re-  grouping of activities, That concentration had notably  simplified the programme «nd budget document; it  should also greatly facilitate the work of the Advisory  Committee and of the General Conference.
(23) The Assistant Diz cctor-General went on to ex-  plain briefly the main considerations which the Direc-  tor-General had nad in mind in drawing up the pro-  gramme before the Committee. Firstly, he had been  concerned to develop the practical side of Unesco's  work. No less essential was the desire to bring the  Organization's work more closely into line with the  needs, aspirations and resources of Member States,  Much effort had also been devoted to the task of ac-  centuating the concentration. Not only had the num-  ber of projects been notably reduced, but in some  instances a mure or less close connexion had been  established between several projects appearing in  different chapters. The programme had thus been  concentrated to a far greater extent than might appear  from a first reading of the document, and the Direc-  tor-General, in pursuance of the Executive Board's  recommendations (document 8C/PRG/13, paragraphs
48 to 60), was prepared to embark upon a still more  radical concentration, He did pot, however, feel  entitled to do so until the General Conference had de-  bated the matter in full knowledge of the facts and  consequences, and had provided him with clear-cut  instructions,
(24) Lastly, the proposed programme before the  Committee was a collective work, in which all the  main specialists of the Secretariat, in addition to the  Heads of Departments, had taken a share. It bore  the stamp more especially of the late William Hodson,  to whose memory the speaker paid i.car‘celt tribute,
(25) The CHAIRMAN thanked Mr. Maheu for his  clear statement. Before calling on Mr, Rao, he  wished to welcome Professor Secco Ellauri and to  ask him to transmit the Committee's greetings and  gratitude to the Government of Uruguay.
(26) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Programme  and Budget) expressed his own sorrow and that of  his colleagues at the death of Mr, Hodson, which had  shaken Unesco to its foundations, Members of the  Bureau of Programme and Budget felt that they had   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VI-1  lost, not only a guide and a friend, but almost a  member of the family. Mr. Rao said that he had  brought with him Mr. Hodson's copy of the Pro-  gramme and Budget, which had in it several notes  made by him, so that although he (Mr. Rao) would be  speaking, the thoughts behind his words wouid be Mr.  Hodson's.
(27 Mr. Rao pointed out that, in preparing the bud-  get estimates for 1955-56, the Secretariat had kept  in mind two guiding principles: firstly, the Director-  General had endeavoured to carry out the various re-  commendations nr? «ne Budge. Committee of the se-  venth session of thc General Conference and, second-  ly, in the light of several opinions voiced at previous  sessions of the Conference, an effort had been made  to simplify the document by cutting out all unneces-  sary details, while maintaining the elements essen-  tial to an examination of the programme, For ex-  ample, the large number of summary tables which  appeared in previous budget documents were now re-  duced to the essential ones - summaries by major  objects of expenditur< und by major projects for each  department or service,
(28) The budgetary standards adopted in the compu-  tation of the budget estimates were based on past  experience and had been tested in the light of the
1953 expenditure records. In some instances, how-  ever, when it was possible to have actual facts, the  estimates were calculated on the basis of these facts  rather than by applying the standards.
(29) Mr. Rao pointed to the use of two new methods  not employed in previous years’ budget documents.  Firstly, it had been considered very useful to try to  distribute staff costs among the various resolutions  to which they related, rather than give such details  as the salaries of each staff meinber. Secondly, an  effort had been made to compare ihe budget esti-  mates for the major projects for 1955-56 with cor-  responding ones in 1953-54, Certain difficulties  arose from the fact that it was not always possible to  equate the projects between the two financial periods,  but the figures in the 1953 and 1954 columns indica-  ted the approximate budgetary relationship between
1953-54 activities and those proposed for 1955-56.
(30) Mr. Rao then enumerated the various methods  by which the specific recommendations of the Budget  Committee of the seventh session of the General  Conference had been incorporated, In passing, he  mentioned that for easy reference the paragraphs of  each department had been serially numbered in the  right-hand column of each page; the delegates would  find it easy to refer to all three versions by refer-  ence to these paragraph numbers,
(31) In conclusion, Mr. Rao assured the Committee  that, although various details were not given in the  draft programme and hudget, every care had been  taken to ensure that the estimates were reasonable  and accurate; the Secretariat would be only too glad  to provide any additional information.
(32) After thanking Mr. Rao, the CHAIRMAN invited  the Comunittee to hold the general discussion on the  draft programme and budget, reference being made  to the Executive Board's Report on the Remodelling  of Unesco's Future Programme (document 8C/PRG/13).
(33) On behalf of the United States Government, Miss    LAISE thanked the Government of Uruguay for its hos-  pitality. Also on behalf of her Government, and as a  friend of William Hodson, Miss Laise expressed sor-  row at his death, but confidence in those responsible  for carrying on his work.
(34) With regard to the draft programme and budget,  the task of the Advisory Committee and of the Confer-  ence would be mude much easier by the improvement  in its presentation and content, The United States de-  legation regretted, however, that the calculation of  this higher budgetary level had been based on estima-  ted contributions forthcoming from new Member States.  She agreed with Mr. Maheu that, in examining the  work plans, the Committee should keep its discussion  fairly general, querying proposed plans in the light of  past expericnce and the need for con.zntration of ef-  forts. The Committee should avoid dwelling on de-  tail, since experience had shown that the Secretariat,  in implementing u two-year programme, must retain  flexibility and be able to change details in the course  of the two years. In its discussion, the Committee  should take account of the previous recommendations  of the Budget Committee, the Executive Board's re-  port on the remodelling of the programtae and the  Auditor's comments, Some matters of expenditure  would, however, have to be considered, and the United  States delegation wished the Secretariat to supply, if  possible, the following information:  {1) a chart containing up-to-date information on  surplus“s;
(2) a chart showing 1954 obligations for the first  three quarters of the year;
(3) a statement of actual 1952 expenditures by  object of exp 2:.-.…,
(4) a chart showing the number of established  posts and their level and indicating how many had  been filled;
(5) estimates for draft resolutions and supplement-  ary items as soon as possible.
(35) She hoped that, as a result of its deliberations,  the Advisory Committee would submit a report to the  Commissions, emphasizing the major programme and  budget issues, 50 as to facilitate the work and deci-  sions of the Commissions.
(36) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) associated himself with  the deep regret expressed at the death of Mr, Hodson,  He had been a pillar of the budget and would be greatly  missed. The delegate of India also warmly thanked  the Government of Uruguay for its nospitality.
(37) The Proposed Programme and Budget for 1955-
56 was bridfer and more Infelligible to Member States  and represented a real effort to meet their needs  more effectively. Its salient feature was the division  into permanent services and special activities; as  far as the underdeveloped countries were concerned,  it was the series of major projects designed to meet  the needs of Member States which should become the  pivot of Unesco's activities, Unesco had catered  long enough for the needs of the intellectual aristo-  cracy and should henceforth concentrate on the neeus  and aspirations of the common people, the majority  of whom were still steeped in ignorance, It was ne-  cessary to form an effective system of priorities,  calculated to achieve tangible results in the foresee-  able future and, with that end in view, the Govern-  ment of India had sent a series of draft resolutions  - 643 -   vI-1 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  indicating a number of basic tasks. The following  questions, for example, were considered to be of  primary importance: the establishment of an Inter-  national Educational Development Fund, research on  the utilization of nuclear energy, and the spreading  of knowledge of Eastern culture in the West.
(38) In conclusion, the delegate of India emphasized  the need for Member States to make larger resour-  ces available to Unesco. The Organization would  not survive unless its basic purposes could be ful-  filled within a reasonable time, and that could not Le  done without a larger budget. An appeal shouldthere-  fore be made to Member States to divert money used  for destructive purposes towards building up the con-  structive activities of Unesco.
(39) Mr, SECCO ELLAURI (Uruguay) asked the Com-  mittee's forgiveness for his late arrival, which had  been due to circumstances beyond his control. He  had been detained by the Minister of Education to  discuss Unesco business,
(40) Turning to the proposed programme and budget,  he recalled that he had himself taken part in the pre-  paratory work for it in the Executive Board and,  broadly speaking, found it acceptable. He approved  the innovations which the Board had made in it, The  proposed programme and budget had been drawn up  when Unesco was passing through a period of diffi-  culty and to some extent of financial crisis. The  Director-General had remarked on one occasion that  they might be "spreading the butter on too much  bread"; what they were now doing was to reduce  the amount of bread to get a better and smoother  spreading of the butter, Unesco's suit might, at the  moment, perhaps be on the tight side and aot a per-  fect fit, but it was such that the Organization could  wear it without sacrifice of dignity or effectiveness.
(41) Mr. Secco Ellauri supported the requests made  by the representative of the United States of Ameri-  ca. He drew attention to the excellent work done by  the Secretariat, in co-operation with the Executive  Board, in introducing in the draft programme the  changes already mentioned.
(42) He was in favour of tne method suggested by  the Chairman to ensure the effectiveness of the Com-  mittee's proceedings, namely, to begin with a gene-  ral discussion and then go on to a more detailed  study. .
(43) The speaker wished to associate himself with  the tributes paid by other members to the memory  of the late William Hodson, who had met a tragic  end in the Shannon accident. Mr, Hodson had com-  bined drive and great ability with exceptional per-  sonal modesty. The circumstances of his death  made the loss of him more grievous still.
(44) Mr. Secco Ellauri thanked the Chairman for  his friendly references to the Uruguayan authorities  anu people. However, they were still only on the  threshold of the Conference: Uruguay's attentions  and courtesies would increase stzadily as the work  -* the Confer:nce progressed. The holding of the  General Conference in Montevideo was a great honour  .r Uruguay. And there was evidence that Unesco's  presence in the capital had already begun to yield  fruit. In no more than a single month, there had  been a notable increase in awareness of Unesco's  principles among the general public. The Conference  - 644 -     would undoubtedly make the aims and objects of the  Organization more widely knuwn. Lastly, the speaker  explained to delegates that they would only remain  foreigners to the extent that they themselvas wished;  by the people of Uruguay they would quickly be ac-  cepted as friends and brothers, As time went by,  these links would grow stronger, and, as Unesco and  Uruguay got to know one another better, a true affec-  tion would develop between them.
(45) Mr. CABOUAT (France) thanked the Committee  for the honour it had done him in electing him Rappor-  teur, He expressed the gratitude of the French dele-  gation to the Government of Uruguay for the generous  hospitality it was extending to the General Conference  in Montevideo. He als associated himself with the  tributes paid to William Hodson and suggested that a  message be sent to Mrs, Hodson conveying the Com-  mittee's condolences.
(46) As regards the proposed programme and budget,  Mr. Cabouat said that the Director-General and the  Secretariat were to be congratulated on having pro-  duced a document which, as a working tool, would  prove far superior to those of previous years. The  French delegation was prepared to approve the main  lines of the programme proposed in that document  and noted with satisfaction the reduction in the pro-  portion of administrative costs to programme ex-  penditure. However, in the view of the French Gov-  ernment, the projects both at the higher and at the  preser.: budgetary level should be examined on their  meriis and not in the light of the more or less ex-  tensive additional resources that might become avai-  lable to the Organization through the accession of  - new Member States. The total figures for each of  the two budgetary levels should, in his opinion, be  regarded simply as guide marks, between which the  total figure of the budget voted could be determined.
(47) With regard to the sub-division of the programme  into two sections, relating to general activities and  special activities, the speaker pointed out that, whilst  Unesco might use two different methods to attain its  ends, both methods should serve the same ideal. Thus,  in the final count, the object of both general and spe-  cial activities should be the same - to raise the cult-  ural level of all the countries in the world. This  fundamental unity of all Unesco's activities should,  in his view, be strongly emphasized, and close rela-  tions should be established between the officials or  services concerned with those in either category.
(48) Mr, Cabouat drew particular attention to the  help Unesco could secure from international non-  governmental organizations towards the execution of  its programme, To his mind, such organizations  should be still more closely associated, not only in  the permanent activities of Unesco but also in those  projects designed to afford direct aid to Member  States.
(49) Without wishing for the moment to go into the  detail of the proposed programme, the French dele-  gation greatly regretted that no provision was made  for carrying further the investigations undertaken in  earlier years into ways in which the subjects taught  in schools could contribute to international under-  standing. These investigations had aroused the live-  liest interest in educational circles and it was ex-  tremely regrettable that they were thus being brokenoff.   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON
(50) Having thanked Mr. Cabouat for his statement,  the CHAIRMAN requested the Committee to consider  its programme of work. He tentatively suggested  that it meet in the mornings from 10 a. m, to 12,45  p.m. and in the afternoons from 3.30 to 7 p.m. In  view of the Committee's heavy agenda, he empha-  sized the need for punctuality.  PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VI-2
(51) The times of meeting suggested by the Chair-  man were approved,  The meeting rose at 12,30 p. m,  SECOND MEETING
1 November 1954 at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman: Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Australia)  ITEM 7.2 OF THE AGENDA : PRELIMINARY CONSIDERATION  OF THE DRAFT PROGRAMME AND BUDGET FOR 1955-56,  BEFORE THE OPENING OF THE SESSION (continued)
(1) Discussion being resumed on Item 7. 2 of the  Agenda, the CHAIRMAN called upon Mr. Sommerfelt.
(2) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) thanked the Com-  mittee for the honour done to his country in <lecting  him Vice-Chairman, He associated himself with the  reference made at the morning meeting to Mr. Hodson.
(3) The Norwegian Government agreed on the whole  with the new form in which the programme had been  drafted and with the programme itself. While whole-  heartedly in support of the Indian delegate as tc the  necessity of helping underdeveloped countries, he  recalled that Unesco's other aims in the field of in-  ternational collaboration should not be overlooked.  He also supported the view of the French delegate  on the necessity for collaboration between the im-  portant non-governmental organizations, especially  in the fields of science and culture,
(4) With regard to subventions, he thought that it  would be wise for the Committee to advise the Gene-  ral Conference as to amounts, since, if no limit  were fixed, discussion on totals would be duplicated,
(5) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) said that, owing to the  limitations of the budget, it would be necessary to  compromise on the programme, The fields of ac-  tivity would have to be limited but not to a point at  which the aims and purpose of Unesco were defeated.  The Indian delegate had advocated concentrating on  the masses in underdeveloped countries. It was ob-  vious that Unesco must work in those countries but  it was also necessary for it to work amongst educa-  ted peoples.
(6) Referring to the remarks made by the  French delegate, hc agreed that Unesco could  not be a Ministry of Education for the whole  world. It could advise countries on education  but could not do their work for them. It should  attempt to make unuerdaveloped countries aware  of their own responsibility in developing culture  amongst their people.    - 645 -
(7) There being no further speakers at this stage, the  CHAIRMAN asked the Committee how it wished to  proceed in its examination of the programme and  budget. The delegate of the United States, he added,  had already made suggestions in that matter.
(8) Mr, MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) said  that the Secretariat would probably be able to supply  on the following day the information requested that  morning by the United States delegation. As regards  the order of the discussion, the directors of Depart-  ments were prepared to adopt whatever order was  preferred by the Committee, However, they thought  it advisable to begin with the programme of the Edu-  cation Department, since that would, in their'view,  afford the best means of understanding the way in  which various aspects of the programme had been  linked up.
(9) The Committee agreed to begin with a detailed  examination of the Chapter on Education and then to  decide in what order the other Chapters should be  taken,
(10) The CHAIRMAN said that the question raised by  the Morwegian delegate on consideration of the budget  total came within the competence of the Committee  in its advisory capacity, but he suggested that such  consideration should be postponed until a scrutiny  had been made of the budget proposals.
(12) The CHAIRMAN suggested that the Deputy Direc-  tor of the Department of Education should be asked  to give a brief account of what the department was  proposing to do and that members of the Committee  should then be asked to comment generally on his  statement. Following this general discussion, the  Committee would discuss each proposal in detail.