IV-19 PROGRAMME AND  Statistics in improving teaching and in training  specialists. The Institute had a special centre  dealing with such activities and represented the most  important current project in connexion with statistics.
(190) Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom),  raising a point of order, pointed out that the question  of public administration had been dealt with at  Chicago. In addition, he considered that, as the  question of industrial relations was very involved  and extensive, it would be better if the project out-  lined in paragraph 121 were limited to fact-finding  surveys in the fields of statistics and  demography.
(191) In reply, Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Depart-  ment of Social Sciences) said that the studies which  had been undertaken by the public administration  clearing house in Chicago were not complete. They  did not cover all countries nor all branches of  administration. The work Unesco proposed to  undertake on teaching of public administration was in    BUDGET COMMISSION  accord with the United Nations Technical  Assistance Board.
(192) For the survey of the teaching of statistics,  Unesco could rely on the Int_rnational Statistical  Institute and the Inter-American Statistical Institute,  which would greatly facilitate the execution of that  part of the project.
(193) She admitted that the question of the teaching  of industrial relations was a difficult one and  suggested that it might be deferred until a later  programn.e. A survey on the teaching of crimino-  logy coulc take its place.
(194) Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom) moved  that the resolution should be adopted with the  suggested amendments.
(195) The Commission adopted resolution 3. 31 with  the French amendment, and resolutions 3. 32 and
3. 33 with the Swiss amendments.  The meeting rose at 7.10 p.m.  NINETEENTH MEETING
30 November 1954 at 9.30 p.n..  Chairman : Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland)  ITEM 8.4.2 OF REVISED AGENDA: NATURAL SCIENCES  (continued)  DR/110: Rational exploitaticn of natural resources  (submitted jointly by the French, Belgian and  Uruguayan delegations)
(1) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) submitted draft resolu-  tion 2. 222, together with the work plan and budget  estimates for 1955-56 and explained that the  document submitted to the Commission was intended  to replace draft resolutions 8C/DR/35, 54 and 60.
(2) Draft resolution 2.222 stated:  "The Director-General is authorized to promote  the co-ordination of research on the conservation  and utilization of natural resources, with reference  more particularly to the repercussions of hydro-  electrical works on the natural environment".
(3) Mr. Florkin drew attention to the serious effect  which the construction of a big dam and other plant  or hydro-electrical works might have on the natural  surroundings of an area when man's interference was  divorced from the enlightenment of expert opinion  on natural conditions.
(4) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Chairman of the  Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget)  announced that the Advisory Committee, after  - 396 -     examining the very interesting proposals c ntained  in draft resolutions 35, 54 and 60, now included in  draft resolution 110, had recommended that they  should be submitted by the Director- Gene. al again  for the 1957-58 programme.
(5) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) explained that the 1dea was to bring  engineers and naturalists together so that the needs  of industry could be weighed against those of nature.  The result would be that constructors of dams would  take into account the effect of their schemes upon  natural resources.
(6) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) reminded  members of the unfortunate results that had  followed the hydro-electrical development of the  semi-ar1” region of North East Brazil. That  immense area was now faced with serious difficulties,  the water that had accumulated above the dams had  dissolved the salines in the soil and had become more  harmful to surrounding vegetation and animal life  than the former aridity had been.
(7) Hetherefore warmly supported the draft resolution.
(8) Sir John SIMONSEN (Umited Kingdom) viewed  the proposal with much sympathy, but proposed  that the Commission should accept the Advisory  Committee's recommendation.   PROGRAMME AND
(9) Mr. ABEYWICKREMA (Ceylon) asked whether
1t would not be possible to include it in the humid  tropical zone project for the 1957-58 budget.
(10) Mr. PAGE (Canada) supported the United King-  dom's proposal, adding that a good deal of work had  already been done nationally and internationally on  the conservation and utilization of natural resources  and that the project would suffer no great damage  through delay.
(11) Mr. LINKSON (Australia) enquired whether co-  ordination with the International union for the  Protection of Nature, and other bodies, had been  considered.
(12) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) said that the proposal was submitted 1n  agreement with the International Union for the  Protection of Nature and the International Commis-  sion on Large Dams, two non-governmental  organizations which consisted of qualified represen-  tatives of two bodies with widely divergent interests  and which would be glad to state and compare their  points of view. A meeting of that kind would be most  useful.
(13) In reply to Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece), Mr.  AUGER said that agronomic engineers and, in  particular, specialists in soil study should take part  in the work. The co-operation of pedologists was  particuiarly important, as the Brazilian delegate  had pointed out.
(14) Mr. Auger explained that, provided the subject  appeared in the programme, even with a reduced  budget or no budget at all, the Director-General  would be able tc initiate consultations with specialists.  But, if the project were postponed until 1957-58 he  would not even be able to start consultations.
(15) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Chairman of the  Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget)  wished to make it clear that in making its recommen-  dation the Advisory Committee had been fully  conscious of the interest of the project contained in  draft resolution 110. One of its reasons for proposing  the delay had been precisely to allow fcr more  detailed consultation with the international organiza-  tions mentioned by the Australian delegate. Those  organizations, though they agreed with the proposal  in principle, had not yet had the opportunity of  commenting fully on it.
(16) The Director-General he added, would need  some textual basis on which to start the necessary  preliminary consultations.
(17) Mrs. PECSON (Representative of the Exccutive  Board) said that the Executive Board had recom-  mended the proposals contained in draft resolu-  tions 35 and 54, but had asked that draft  resolution No. 60 be deferred until the next  General Conference, as it was a very important  one, which should be studied in detail first.  She noted that the proposal in question was not  included in draft resolution 110, and therefore  the draft resolution was in line with the  Executive Board's recommendation.  - 397 -     BUDGET COMMISSION IV-19
(18) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that there were  three proposals before the Commission: (a) the  draft resolution submitted by the French, Belgian  and Uruguayan delegations (document 8C/DR/110);  (b) the amendment moved by the United Kingdom  delegation for adopting the conclusions of the  Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget,  and urging that the project be postponed until
1957-58; (c) the proposal that the Director-General  be instructed to study the question while avoiding  any budgetary implications.
(19) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) considered  that there were no technical or budgetary reasons  for postponing the project, which was within clearly  defined limits and carefully planned, and which  would be very beneficial to all the semi-arid zones.
(20) Put to the vote, the United Kingdom amendment  for deferring the project until 1957-58 was adopted  by 13 votes to 9, with 11 abstentions.
(21) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) remarked  that the project, although postponed, had not been  dropped entirely, as the Advisory Committee on  Arid Zone Research would be able to draft recon -  mendations for the General Conference's ninth  session.
(22) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General),  explaining the impact of the decision just taken, said  that, in the absence of funds, the Secretariat could  not undertake a really exhaustive analysis of the  project. The idea would be explored with a view to  its inclusion in the draft programme and budget for
(23) The CHAIRMAN then read out draft resolution
42 submittea by the Uruguayan delegation on the  teaching of the principles of the conservation of  natural resources:  "The General Conference,  Authorizes the Director-General to promote the  teaching of the basic principles of the conservation  of natural resources, to assist, by the use of the  media of mass communication, in making the public  aware of these problems and to encourage research  on subjects connected with the princiz!es of  conservation".
(24) The Chairman thought that that text, which  had been approved by the Advisory Committee on  Programme and Budget, would keep the question  of the raticnal utilization of natural resources in the  programme without entailing any appropriations.
(25) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) believed a simple verbal change in one  paragraph of the proposed programme and budget,  with no budgetary implications, would suffice.
(26) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) asked the Uruguayan  delegation to abide by the generalidea of the draft joint  resolutio.: (document 8C/DR/110). Obviously there  was no need in that resolution to refer explicitly to  teaching of the principles of the conservation of natural  resources,as the proposed measures could not be  envisagedunless teaching formed part of them.   IV-19 PROGRAMME AND
(27) He suggested that the Uruguayan delegation  should withdraw DR/42, just as he had himself with-  drawn DR/58, and should accept his proposal to add  to the beginning of DR/110 the text submitted tn  paragraph 23 above.
(28) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Chairman of the  Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget)  indicated that the Advisory Committee had reached  the same conclusion with regard to draft resolutions
42 ond 58 as on the project previously discussed.  Consultation with other organizations was necessary,  and the Director-General should have the opportunity  of studying the proposals for inclusion in the
(29) Mr. VILLAR (Uruguay) indicated his assent to  the Belgian draft resolution.
(30) Draft resolution 8C/DR/110 was approved.  Technical aid to Member States  Resolution 2.321: The Director-General is  authorized to provide technical aid for Member  States in connexion with science teaching at univer-  sity level and for the practical teaching of science  in secondary schools.  Paragraphs 136 and 137
(31) Mr. JOHANNES (Indonesia) warmly defended  the project contained in paragraph 136. Indonesia  was in great need of expert aid in training for all  the peaceful uses of nuclear energy, about which the  Commission had passed a resolution that morning.
(32) Paragraphs 136 and 137 were approved.  Paragraphs 138 and 139
(33) Mr. PRASAD (India) proposed that, as the  allocation for the teaching of science in secondary  schools was so small, it should be suppressed in  favour of other projects.
(34) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) asked  whether, in tl. event of paragraphs 138 and 139 being  rejected, Mr. Auger could consider using the  $40, 000 thus saved for the nuclear physics and  cosmic rays project.
(35) The CHAIRMAN reminded delegates that the  Commission had already voted large supplementary  funds and that it might very well not have the sum  mentioned at its disposal.
(36) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  suggested that sums made available by cancelling  projects or postponing them to 1957-58 should be  counted as remaining in a general fund, so that  after the budget had been reviewed in detail the  Director-General could submit to the Commission  overall proposals for final budgetary adjustments.
(37) Put to the vote, the cancellation of the  appropriations referred to in paragraphs 138  - 398 -     BUDGET COMMISSION  and 139 was rejected by 18 votes to 13, with
3 abstentions.  DR/109: Quito Observatory
(38) Mr. MONTALVO (Ecuador) proposed that the  sum of $3, 000 be added to the end of the chapter to  pay for part of the technical aid needed by the  Government of his country for modernizing the  equipment at the Astronomical Observatory in Quito.  His Government had frequently spoken to Unesco  officials on that important matter.
(39) The insignficant sum requested would only  cover part of the expert's cost, the major part being  borne by the Government of Ecuador. The principal  object of that request was to be sure of an efficient  technician, to be recommended by Unesco.
(46) Mr. FORSYTH (New Zealand) repeated a  protest he had made at an earlier meeting against  the flood of last-minute draft resolutions, submitted  far too late for their discussion by delegates, let  alone by National Commissions. He raised a tentative  point of order: could a new draft resolution on a  particular question be handed round while the  question was actually being discussed?
(41) Sir John SIMONSEN (United Kingdom) remarked  that, according to Rule 78 on page 22 of the Rules of  Procedure, new draft resolutions could not be  submitted later than the end of the seventh day of the  session,
(42) The CHAIRMAN reminded delegates that the  Commission had decided to consider draft resolu-  tions, originally rejected because of failure to  submit them within the time limit, when a delegation  insisted upon submitting them afresh in the form of  oral proposals. He noted further that the proposal  to reject the Ecuadorian suggestion on the Quito  Observatory had not been seconded.
(43) Speaking on a point of order, Mr. BERREDO  CARNEIRO (Brazil) said that the project submitted  by the Ecuadorian delegation had rightly been  declared non-receivable as a draft resolution, but it  could take the form of a request for technical assis-  tance, 1.e. for the services of an expert, as had  happened in the case of an observatory in Brazil.
(44) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) thought the Technical Assistance Board  would not accede to a request of that kind; it had  already stated that projects connected with astro-  nomy did not come within its normal programme.
(45) He would suggest, however, that the project  might be brought within the programme by extending  the provisions of resolution 2.321 on technical aid  to Member States so 2s to cover astronomy.
(46) Mr. VILLAR (Uruguay) said that, having  listened to Mr. Auger's statement, the Uruguayan  delegation supported the new version of the  Ecuadorian proposal.
(47) Mr. PAGE (Canada) protested against the  manner in which the proposal of the delegate of   PROGRAMME AND  Ecuador had been presented, and felt he could not  participate in the discussion of it in that form.
(48) The CHAIRMAN said that, should the Commis-  sion so wish, it could revoke its previous decision  to receive oral proposals Declaring that the  disc « ssion could be reopened, he recalled that  protests had been lodged by delegates who had  asserted that the Commission's powers were unduly  limited by the automatic rejection of oral proposals  on the ground that that was required by the rules  of debate.
(49) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Chairman of the  Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget)  thought that the General Conference at its seventh  session had laid down clearly the procedure for the  consideration of new proposals. The Commission  should normally have before it, in connexion with  each proposal, the recommendation of the Executive  Board and that of the Advisory Committee. If the  Commission intended to upset that procedure, he  failed to see what the rôle of the two Advisory  Committees was
(50) The CHAIRMAN asked once more whether the  Commission was in favour of or against considering  oral proposals.
(51) Speaking on a point of order, Mr. BERREDO  CARNEIRO (Brazil) urged that a distinction be made  between proposals with and those without budgetary  implications.
(52) The CHAIRMAN reminded members that they  had decided to receive oral proposals even when they  had budgetary implications.
(53) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) said that every  General Conference had consistently followed the  practice of refusing to consider any proposal not  previously approved by the Executive Board.
(54) Mr. AL-KOUSSI (Egypt) felt that a fair balance  should be maintained between flexibility in discussion  and the rejection outright of any unwarranted  extempore proposal. The Ecuadorian proposal came  within the normal procedure and was therefore  receivable in equity, if not within the strict letter  of the law,
(55) Mr. SPILHAUS (United States of America) was  led by the very confusion of the meeting at that  moment to support the protests made by the delegates  of New Zealand and Canada.
(56) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) suggested that on the basis of resolution
2.321 the Commission would be in order in men-  tioning astronomy in paragraph 136 side by side with  nuclear physics and cosmic rays. That solution was  entirely feasible and had no budgetary implications.  it involved neither a new draft resolution nor a new  proposal, but only a textual ainendmen .
(57) After the New Zealand delegate had reiterated  his point of view, the CHAIRMAN replied that he did  not feel that his decisions amounted to a departure  BU     Doi; +1 COMMISSION IV-19  from the motion adopted at the beginning of the  Commission's work.
(58) According to the strict letter of the rules, a  draft resolution tabled after document 8C/DR/61 was  not receivable as such. The Commission had  decided that, 1f any delegation so demanded, at  might submit a project in the form of an oral proposal  and, 1f the latter had any budgetary implications, the  Commission would be free to accept or rejec such  implications, or even the whole proposal.
(59) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  thought that Mr. Auger had given the correct explana-  tion of the proposal under discussion. it was merely  an amendment to the work plan, and so entirely  receivable.
(60) For the rest, the references to astronomy,  nuclear physics and cosmic rays served only as  tllustrative example. The Director-General was  free to arrange the details according to requirements,  for the work plans accompanying the draft programme  and budget were not a legal document, with limitative  or exclusive effect.
(61) Mr. LINKSON (Australia) shared the perturba-  tion of other delegates at the inclusion of the request  presented by the delegate of Ecuador in paragraph
136. Was 1t a suitable time, and even a suitable  place in the budget for 11? The renovation of an  astronomical observatory had little to do with the  development of umiversity education in nuclear  physics. Mr. Linkson considered it a dangerous  precedent to make such amendments in a programme  which ought to be homogeneous. One word, one  syllable had divided Christianity.
(62) Mr. SANDOVAL VALLARTA (Mexico) said that,  in view of the explanations of the Director of the  Natural Sciences Department, and of the fact that the  Ecuadorian proposal had no budgetary implications,  a solution would be to insert the word "astronomy"  in paragraph 136 and include Ecuador in the list of  countries in question.
(63) Miss BOLLO (Uruguay) observed that the point  under discussion was one of procedure and did not  affect the substantive question, i.e. Ecuador's  request for technical aid, which was really the  subject under consideration.
(64) Mr. ABEYWICKREMA (Ceylon) wished to know  how the figures under paragraph 137 had been  arrived at, and whether they could be reduced by the  rejection of the proposal submitted by the delegation  of Ecuador.
(65) The CHAIRMAN suggested that, in view of the  difficulties entailed by his proposal, the delegate  of Ecuador might be willing to refer it to the next  General Conference.
(66) Mr. MONTALVO (Ecuador) said that, provided  the situation could be cleared up at the meeting that  day, his delegation would not object to withdrawing  its proposal for the time being. But he did not wish  the subject to be regarded as closed, since, in his  opinion, it was of paramount importance both to his  - 399 -   IV-19 PROGRAMME AND  own country as to the res! of the American continent,  the Observatory rendering the most valuable  services owing to its geographical position.
(67) Sir John SIMONSEN (United Kingdom) saw no  relation between the proposal of the Director- General  under project 2.321 and tha: of the delegation of  Ecuador.
(68) Mr. PRASAD (India) said that paragraphs 136  and 137 had been adopted. Before it could go any  further with the discussion the meeting would have to  decide whether it would take up the subject again  or not.
(69) The CHAIRMAN asked whether the Commission  wished to revert to paragraphs 136 and 137 in order  to include the word "astronomy".
(70) The reconsideration of paragraphs 136 and 137  was put to the vote and approved by 11 votes to 9.
(71) Mr, AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) thought that the Commission would be  straying very far from the truth in supposing that  astronomy was not a subject of university education.  In France, for instance, the observatories were  regarded as an integral part of the universities,  making 1t possible to give practical application to the  theoretical teaching of the lecture room.
(72) As the Assistant Director-General had explained,  even if the Commission took no decision, the proposal  represented a measure on which it was open to the  Director-General to take action, But it would be  better that the Commission approve the inclusion of  astronomy in the paragraph and so recognize the  existence of a very real need.
(73) Put to the vote, the amendment to paragraph 136  was adopted by 23 votes to 4, with 7 abstentions.
(74) Mr. PRASAD (India) said that it had been  agreed to include the word "astronomy" 1n paragraph
136. It was now necessary to vote on the required  subvention.
(75) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  explained that the decision just taken did not côver  the $3, 000 requested, but merely authorized the  Director-General to take action within the limits of  the present budget appropriations.
(76) Further, resolution 2, 231 should be amended  by deleting the last part of the sentence on the  practical teaching of science in secondary schools.  "The Director-General is authorized to provide  technical aid for Member States in connexion with  science teaching at university level".
(77) That amendment was approved without  discussion.  Project 2.41: Science Co-operation Office,
(78) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Chairman of the  Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget)  having stated that the Advisory Committee had  recommended that the project be referred to the  - 400 -     BUDGET COMMISSION  Working Party on Decentralization, the SECRETARY  read out the passage dealing with the matter in the  report of the Working Party:  "Having heard the Chairman of the Executive  Board and the Director of the Natural Sciences  Department on this subject, the Working Party  recommends that:  (a) the science co-operation offices should be  maintained as proposed by the Director-General in  the draft programme and budget (document 8C/5)  for the next two years. Consideration of the special  case of the Delh: Office was, however, left to the  Programme and Budget Commission,  (b) the Director-General should be asked to study  carefully the development of the science co-operation  offices with a view to establishing how the funds at  the disposal of these offices could be most efficiently  expended’. (Document 8C/PRG/25 (rev.). page 2  of English version.)
(79) Mr. IBANEZ GOMEZ (Chile) said that the  regional science co-operation offices had always  received highest priority at the instigation of the  Anglo-Saxon delegations, which had in fact been the  driving force behind them. Chile, which had just  Joined Unesco, wished to be associated with that  policy and pressed for the highest priority for those  activities,
(80) He emphasized the importance of the regional  offices and recalled the work achieved by the  Montevideo Office, which had been responsible for  Chile's entry into Unesco.
(81) The ore tangible achievement of Unesco 1n the  South American continent was the direct action taken  by the Co-operation Office for Latin America, and  for that reason he was dismayed at reading in docu-  ment 8C/PRG/25 (rev. ) that "the Director-General  should be asked to study carefully the development of  the science co-operation offices with a view to  establishing how the funds at the disposal of these  offices could be most efficiently expended". That  sentence, if approved, would imply a criticism, for  it almost asked whether the Director-General was  watching carefully over the development of those  offices.
(82) Further, looking at the sentence from a wider  angle, 1t implied placing in the Director-General's  hands an instrument which would enable him to veto  any future agreements on co-operation offices. That  was to say, a personal decision by the Director -General  would suffice tomodify or cancel a decision taken by a  sovereign body such as the General Conference.
(83) He therefore asked that document 8C/PRG/25  (rev. ) be approved with the deletion of paragraph  (b) in Point IL
(84) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil), speaking  on a point of order, said that the proposal was  unacceptable unless the Working Party's report were  included in the discussion.
(85) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) asked for the  Assistant Director-General's views on the budgetary  implications of the recommendation.
(86) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  explained that the report, though not actually included   PROGRAMME AND  in the discussion, might be used as a source of  information to assist members in the debate.
(87) The Secretariat's opinion was that paragraph  (b) did not imply any criticism, at most a suggestion  to facilitate further progress.
(88) Mr. PRASAD (India) expressed the surprise  of his delegation at the proposal contained in para-  graph 145 of the proposed programme and budget to  transform the office for South Asia into a branch  office. That was the only retrograde step in the  whole of the Natural Sciences chapter, and it was in  contradiction to resolution 2. 41 authorizing the  Director-General to develop the activities of science  co-operation offices in South Asia among other parts.
(89) The reason given was that of budgetary limita-  tions, but $40, 000 had been released under  paragraph 139; and in studying paragraphs 182 and
196-197, he found the only result of the reduction  was the suppression of one P-5 post.
(90) On account of the importance of the science  co-operation offices, the delegation of India proposed  that paragraph 145 should be replaced by the  following:  "Past experience of the work of the science co-  operation offices has shown that there 1s urgent need  to expand their activities 1n South and South East  Asia and bring them more into consonance with the  requirements of the region with a view to encouraging  the spread of scientific education and knowledge and  providing facilities for the greater utilization of  science in raising the standard of living of the people.  The Conference therefore authorizes the Director-  General to maintain the existing science co-operation  office at Jakarta at its present level, and, on the  basis of the offer of the Government of India made in  consultation with, and with the support of the  delegations of Indonesia, Burma and Ceylon, to  develop the Delhi Science Co-operation Office into  a Nucleus Office in terms of resolution 8C/DR/14,  of which notice has already been given.  "The Conference further authorizes the Director-  General to make consequential changes in paragraphs
172-184 (pages 79-71) and paragraphs 191 and 192  (page 71) of the Draft Programme and Budget for
1955-56, and to carry out necessary alterations in  the budget provision for the effective implementation  of this proposal.
(81) The delegate of India drew attention to draft  resolution 8C/DR/14, in which his Government  offered free office facilities and guidance over  residential accommodation to members of the  regional office.
(92) Mr. VILLAR (Uruguay) said that the Science  Co-operation Office in Latin America played an  invaluable part in spreading scientific knowledge  in that part cf the world, both by arousing the interest  of governments and peorles and by facilitating and  stimulating scientific development and research.
(93) The CHAIRMAN asked whether the Uruguayan  delegate had any concrete proposal to formulate.
(94) Mr. VILLAR (Uruguay) replied that his delega-  tion shared the concern expressed by the Chilean  delegate, but had suppressed his feelings in the  - 401 -     BUDGET COMMISSION IV-19  matter, on the understanding that their remarks  would be noted 11 the records.
(95) Mr. ABEYWICKREM A (Ceylon) supported the  delegate of India. Why should the Office in India  be singled out for reduction? That Office served a  very useful purpose in an area with a population  exceeding 400,000,000 Moreover, library facilities  etc. 1n the area were still inadequate.
(96) Mr. PAGE (Canada) fully supported the delegate  of India. The budgetary implication was small and  the need of the service in that area was a vital one.
(47) Sir John SIMONSEN (United Kingdom) was sorry  to oppose the delegate of India in saying that the  Director-General's proposal was a tribute 'o his  country. The development of science in India had  attained such a high standard that it could now carry  on without a full-scale office.
(98) In reply to a question from the CHAIRMAN,  Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) said that  in its draft resolutions on the decentralization of  Unesco's activities and the establishment of a  regional offic» 1n South and South East Asia (docu-  ments 8C/DR/" and 8C/DR/14), the Indian  delegation had asked for a regional office to be  opened for co-operation with Unesco, and had been  supported by the delegations of Ceylon, Indonesia  and Burma. That proposal would come up for  discussion in connexion with Point V of the Working  Party's report on decentralization (8C/PRG/25 (rev. ),  page 5 of the English version) and the general  resolutions, none of which documents were at  present under discussion.
(99) The question under examination at the moment  was the retention or abolition of the Delhi Office  under the present system, Its retention would cost  Unesco $60, 000 fur the two years.
(100} The Liberian delegate having supported the  Indian proposal to retain the Delhi Office at its  present level with an expenditure of $60, 000 for
1955-56, the proposal vas adorted by 19 votes to 9,  with 4 abstentions.
(101) The CHAIRMAN said that the question would be  submitted to the Advisory Committee on Programme  and Budget.
(102) The provisions relating to project 2, 41:  Regional Science Co-operation Offices, were  adopted as far as paragraph 149 with the amendrnent  proposed by the Indian delegation.
(103) The provisions relating to the Science Co-  operation Office in Latin America (Montevideo),  paragraphs 150-152, were adopted without discussion.  Meetings and scientific research (paragraphs
(104) Mr. SANDOVAL VALLARTA (Mexico) proposed  an umendment to paragraph 156, the first sentence  to be replaced by: "It 1s proposed to organize in  Mexico an international congress on cosmic radiation   IV-19 PROGRAMME AND  under the auspices of the International Union of Pure  and Applied Physics” The next sentence could  remain unaltered, but the last should be amended to  read: "the Science Co-operation Office will pay the  expenses of some of the participants’
(105) The Mexican delegatton's reason for desiring  that arnendment was that at the International  Congress on Cosmic Rays held in France in 1953  the Cosmic Rays Committee of the International  Physics Union had agreed that the next congress  should be held in Mexico City. Prior to that decision  the Mexican National Commission had applied for  assistance for a symposium on gravitation and  cosmology. But in view of the agreement with the  International Physics Union, Mexico had decided to  propose the present amendment.  {106) The CHAIRMAN remarked that the Mexican  delegate's proposal had no budgetary implications.
(107) Various proposals connected with the science  co-operation offices in Latin America and the  Middle East, and with meetings a1d scientific  rese: rch, were adopted without discussion  (paragraphs 153-171).  Science Co-operation for Asia (paragraphs 172-175)
(108) Jr. PRASAD (India) asked that his proposal  (docur: ent 8C/DR/89) should be taken into account  in dez.l ng with that section.
(10%) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  apologiz :d for having misled the Commission with  regard t » the budgetary implications of retaining the  Co-oper: tion Office in Delhi. Contrary to what he  had said, the figure was not $60, 000 for the two  years 1925 and 1956, but $60, 000 per annum, i.e.  $120, 000 for the two years. He asked the Commis-  sion to he r a statement by the Director of the  Natural Sc ences Department on the reasons that had  led the Dir ector-General to propose cutting down the  Delhi Offic».
(110) Mr. ..UGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) ex olained that the regional scientific co-  operation ofilces were not, properly speaking,  regional co-« peration offices. Members of the  Secretariat were sent there but were not officially  seconded to o1e of the regions in the normal sense  of the term. That was why the offices were mobile  and, inthe saine way, special branches set up in the  Philippines an! Shanghai had later been withdrawn.
(111) Furtherriore, India had made great strides  in scientific research over the last few years. It  now possessed v'xcellent research laboratories and  full-grown universities attended by many helders of  scholarships anc staffed by fully-trained scientists.  India therefore was not a country in urgent need of  scientific aid and the Director-General had preferred  to concentrate on Jakarta and the Middle East.
(112) The Delhi Cffice had not heen abolished: a  senior member of the Department was remaining  there to carry out liaison wo:k and possibly organize  symposia and series of lectures.  - 402 -     BUDGET COMMISSION
(113) Mr. SPILHAUS (United States of America) was  confused. The delegate of India had first referred  to a small adjustment, namely vne P-5 post. Then  $60, 000 had been mentioned and fina'ly $120, 000  On the other hand, a whole new field (that of astro-  nomy) had been incorporated into a project "at ro  cost". Mr. Epilhaus was beguning to doubt the  validity of the budget document.
(114) Mr. PRASAD (India) was also confused after  the explanations of the Director of the Natural  Sciences Department, He thanked the delegate of the  United Kingdom for his interpretation of the reduction  of the office as a tribute to India, but did not find a  word of that in the reasons given for that reduction  in paragraph 145. The net result of the various  changes, as staled in paragraph 192, was the  decrease nf one P-5 post. Did that amount tn  $120,000”
(115) If India had developed scientifically, there was  all the more reason for maintaining the office at its  present level. The delegate of India did not think  that the discussion could be reopened again in that  manner.
(116) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) thought 1t inaccurate to say that the only  cut in the Delhi Office was thé suppression of a grade  P-5 post. In abolishing that post, expenditure on  accommodation, travel and the salaries of local  staff were also reduced. It was unnecessary to give  scientific aid to India, a country where science was  already highly developed. If the Commission  decided that it was the most advanced countries that  needed Unewco's scientific co-operation, offices  would have to be set up in the United States of  America and Western Europe.
(117) If the Delhi Office were retained at full  strength, with no increase in the general budget for  the project, the other science co-operation offices  would have to revert to their 1952-53 level.
(118) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) recalled  the vote passed by a big majority in favour of  retaining the Delhi Office. The Commission should  not go back on that vote before receiving the report  of the Advisory Committee and exarnining 1t at  leisure. It was unwise to come to a decision in a  few minutes near midnight, on the fate of scientific  co-operation in a country like India.
(119) The CH/IRMAN pointed out that the parlia-  mentary shuttle system was not in use at Unesco's  General Conference, moreover, the vote in  question being based on erroneous information  could not be counted as valid.
(120) With the above reservations regarding the  question of the auxiliary office in Delhi, paragraphs
172-175 relating to science co-operation offices in  Asia were approved without discussion.
(121) Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia) referred to the  Indian delegation's proposal (document 8C/DR/89),  which had been accepted on the basis of erroneous  figures. In deferring that question until all the  detailed figures were before the meeting, the   PROGRAMME AND  $40,000 saved in connexion with paragraphs 138 and
139 should be taken into account.
(122) The Secretariat should not be allowed to dictate  to the Commission when obliging it to go back upon  its vote. When the Secretariat was favourable to a  project, it was disposed to make all necessary  alterations, but in the case under discussicn an  incorrect figure had been given, which showed that  the Secretariat did not want India to ga:n its point.
(123) The CHAIRMAN recalled the Commission's  previous decision when voting the provisional budget  for the Natural Sciences Department. He urged  delegates not to go back on their offer with regard  to the Delhi Office before they kncw the exact  figures:  (a) of the budgetary implications of the Delhi  Office;  (b) of the total saving effected in the provisional  budget of the Natural Sciences Department.
(124) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  apologized again for his mistake. The late hour no  doubt explained his own lapse and certain exaggerated  imputations ascribed to him by the Liberian delegate.    BUDGET COMMISSION 1v-20  He regretted his mistake, but to say that it was a  calculated manoeuvre in order to defeat a delega-  tion's proposal was an undeserved insult.
(125) Mr. PRASAD (India) requested the Secretariat  to provide the figures for maintenance of the Delhi  Office at i's reduced level, so that the additional  expense involved in keeping it at its present level  could be estimated
(126) Mr. U-TSUN-CHEN (China) considered that,  if the vote on the Delhi Office was invalid, the  Comission should disregard it.
(127) The CHAIRMAN asked whether the Liberian  delegate wished to make for entry in the records a  statement on his previous remarks about the  Secretariat, to indicate that he agreed with the latter.
(128) Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia) was sorry he could  not then make the statement required of him.
(129) At the request of the delegate of the  United Kingdom, the meeting was adjourned just  after midmight.  TWENTIETH MEETING
1 December 1954 at 10 am.  Chairman: Mr. THA HLA (Union of Burma)  STATEMENT BY THE LIBERIAN DELEGATE
(1) Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia) referred to a dis-  cussion between himself and the representative of  the Secretariat at the previous meeting. He had  not intended to question the integrity of the  Secretariat and in view of the explanation which had  been given he was prepared to withdraw his  statement.  ITEM 8.4.3 OF REVISED AGENDA : SOCIAL SCIENCES  (continued)  Paragraphs 124-130
(2) Approved.  Direct aid to Member States in the organization of  social science teaching (paragraphs 131-134)
(3) Mr. SANCHEZ REULET (Organization of  American States) expressed his sat sfaction at the  work Unesco was doing to study the position with  regard to social science teaching 1 : Latin American  - 403 -     universities, he added that OAS was prepared to  co-operate in the work by furmshing the services  of its own staff and making an appropriation for the  purpose in its budget for 1955 and 1956.  Technical aid to Member States (paragraphs 135-139).  Resolution 3. 34
(4) Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom) said  that a large sum had been allocated to the project,  but not enough information was given on how it would  be spent. There were very few highly qualified  social scientists available and since, as had been  pointed out, social science activities were fairly  new to Unesco's programme, it was important not  to advance too far without adequate personnel. He  asked if the Director of the Department could  indicate whether there was sufficient talent available  to justify expenditure at the rate of $50, 000 in each  of the coming two years.
(5) Mr. VITO (Italy) asked whether some of the  technical aid budget recommended in resolution
3. 34 could be used to assist the establishment of  social science teaching institutes, to help in  developing research on the social implications of