ACVISDRY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND RBRUDGET VI-24  TWENTY - FOURTH MEETING
15 November 1954 at 9 p.m.  Chairman : Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Av tralia)  DRAFT REPORT OF THE ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PRO-  GRAMME AND BUDGET (document 8C/BUD/1 (prov.))
(1) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) referred to the  final report of the Expert Committee on Education  for International Understanding (document 8C/DIV/
80) and regretted that it had not been available to  the Committee during its examination of the pro-  gramme and budget, The Expert Committee, which  had been attended by important Unesco officials,  had discussed the programme in detail and made  valuable suggestions, and it would be unfortunate  if no use were made of its work,
(2) The CHAIRMAN said that the Secretariat had  explained that it had not been possible to issue the  report in time for submission to the Committee,  It would be difficult at the nresent juncture to  examine the report in detail, but the Norwegian  delegate could propose that it be mentioned  under the section on education,
(3) Mr. SOMMERFELT (No. ~ay) pointed out that  the report had a bearing on other departments as  well as the Department of Education,
(4) It was agreed that appropriate references  should be made under the relevant sections of the  Committee's report.
(5) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  explained that the document just referred to Ly the  Norwegian delegate was being translated and re-  produced at the nioment; without expressing a  definite opinion the Committee might, in the intro-  duction to the report, draw the Commission's  attention to it after the paragraph dealing with  fundamental education; he assured Mr. Sommerfelt  that the excellent work that had been done in Paris  would not be shelved,
(6) Mr. CABOUAT (Rapporteur), submitting the  draft report, pointed out that it had been drawn up  in great haste, and that, owing to lack of time, it  had not been revisec as thoroughly and attentively  as could be desired, He craved the Committee's  indulgence for a number of mistakes which had  occurred as a result, He wished to thank the  Secretariat publicly for their invaluable help in  completing his work.
(7) Mr. Cabouat had sought to produce a compre-  hensive report, including all the Committee's re-  commendations and comments. In the introduction,  he had explained the Committee's working methods,  and its interpretation of priorities, the higher  - 795 -  budgetary level, and the present budgetary levzl,  A definition of the four categories into which the  projects had been grouped was given on page 3.  The Committee's recommendations regarding the  draft resolutions put forward by Member States  were shown at the end of the relevant chapters,  The Chair man of the Committee intended to suggest  to the Programme Comunission that it might be  advisable to adopt a similar method when discussing  those draft resolutions, The recommendations  concerning fundamental education had bezn placed  immediately after the chapter on education,  Chapter 7 contained the general resolutions, and  was followed by a chapter on the Documents and  Publications Service, General Administr.tion was  dealt with in Part III and Common Service Costs in  Part IV. The Conclusion contained general  comments and the results of the Committee's  proceedings, together with the figures that its  recommendations would represent, The Report  then stated that the Committee felt that the proposed  programme and budget submitted by the Director-  General formed, as a whole, a well-balanced body  of activities, and fulfilled the double requisite of  maintaining the continuity of the Organization's  activities and satisfying the wish, repeatedly ex-  pressed by the General Conference, for a gradual  concentration of those activities, There followed  a number of comments on the administrative  organization of the Secretariat and, finally, two  recommendations to the Programme and Budget  Commission, suggesting that the Commission, at  the outset of its work, set up two working parties,  to consider the administrative structure of the  Department of Mass Communication and all problems  connected with the decentralization of the Organiza-  tion's activities,
(8) The CHAIRMAN invited comment on the  Introduction,
(9) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt), referring to  page 3, suggested that it would be simpler to refer  to the projects in category 3 as being of low  priority,
(10) The CHAIRMAN explained that in for mulating  category 3 it had been necessary to find a phrase  suitable for both the French and English texts. It  was difficult tc find a French equivalent for "low  priority".
(11) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) maintained his  suggestion, which applied also to other parts of both  the Introduction and the Conclusion,   VI-24 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON
(12) It was agreed that the Committee should take  note of the Egyptian delegate's remarks,
(13) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) said that  category 3 evidently referred to items which would  have been excluded from the norm... programme, if  the budget had bee. divided into an ordinary and a  higher level, as had originally been intended. He  agreed with the views of the Egyptian delegate.
(14) With regard to cate,ory 4, he proposed that  projects should be sub-divided into two categories:  those to be rejected and those that were referred  to th. Director-General to be considered for the
(15) M:. CABOUAT (Rapporteur), referring to the  Egyptian delegate's first remark, said he had  difficulty in grasping the distinction between the  idea of "low priority", and that contained in the  explai.ation of category 3, covering projects which  could be approved only in so far as the funds made  available to the Organization exceeded the appro-  priations required to operate the first two categories  of projects,
(16) With reference to the United Kingdom  delegate's comment on category 4, provision had  been made for the Committee to recommend that  the Director-General consider certain projects for  the 1957-58 programme.
(17) The CHAIRMAN said that, if he interpreted  correctly the remarks of the United Kingdom dele-  gate, they implied that, had the Director-General  divided projects into present and higher level, those  under category 3 would have appeared in the higher  level, and the existing description of category 3  projects covered the situation adequately,
(18) Mr, PANNETON (Canada) understood that the  Committee's work had been complicated by the fact  that no tentative priorities had been assigned in the  documents which it had to examine. In accordance  with views expressed by his own and other delega-  tions, he proposed that the following statement  should be included in the Committee's report:  "The Committee recommends that, when the
1957-58 programme and budget is prepared,  tentative priorities should oe allocated to each  project and each activity in the programme in  order that the next General Corference may be in  a better position to evaluate the programme in  terms of the funds available for its impiementation",
(19) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) seconded the  proposal.
(20) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  felt that the proposal was so important that he  wondered whether the Introduction to the report  was really the place for it. He considered that it  would be better placed in a special document, for  adoption by the General Conference, dealing with  the preparation of the 1957-58 programme, or at  least in the Conclusion to the report, so as to draw  the Commission's attention to its importance. He  also thought that the Director-General would find  some difficulty in acting on the substance of the    PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  proposal, since the term "priority" had no meaning  except in a budgetary context. In view of the extent  of Unesco's responsibilities and the order of  priorities adopted by the Economic and Social  Council and the General Conferenc” itself, the  Director-General might, thinking purely in terms  of the programme, devise an entirely "priority"  programme, If the . the General Conference wished  to act on that proposal, it should give some indica-  ion of the budgetary framework it wanted; 1t was  because the notion of higher and present budgetary  levels had not been defined that the Director-  General had been unable to work out a system of  priorities in the present draft programme,
(21) The CHAIRMAN assumed that the delegate of  Canada did not share the views of the Assistant  Director-General, but was proposing that the  Director-General should start by setting up projects  which he considered desirable under the existing  budgetary level, and then list in decreasing grades  of priority projects whose implementation would be  within Unesco's programme policy at various  potential levels of increased budget, There would  thus be high priority projects under the present  budget level and projects of decreasing priority  at progressively higher budget levels,
(22) Mr. PANNETON (Canada) said that the Chair-  man had correctly interpreted his proposal. He did  not see how the Committee, with only ten days in  which to accomplish its work, could assign  priorities where the Secretariat had been unable  to do so in a period of six months or a year.
(23) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) opposed the Canadian  delegate's proposal. In his view, the Secretariat,  when preparing the programme, ought only to  include the important items; lower priorities should  not appear at all, Instead of presenting the Con-  ference with a programme divided into a part which  could be implemented under the anticipated budget  and a part, equally important, which could be  implemented if additional funds were provided, the  Secretariat should submit a complete programme of  important projects and leave it to the Conference to  assign priorities if the budget voted were not  adec uate for the whole,
(24) Mr. LEE (United States of America) proposed  that the Committee should concentrate on preparing  a satisfactory report of its work during the past two  weeks and avoid as far as rossible reopening  questions which had already been settled. There  had been much discussion of priorities and dissatis-  faction about the presentation of high and low levels,  Ît would be reasonable to indicate in the report that  there had been considerable dissatisfaction over the  lack of a system of priorities: that, he understood,  was the gist of the Canadian delegate's proposal,
(25) Mr. PANNETON (Canada), in reply to a  question from the CHAIR MAN, said that he main-  tained his proposal but would not object to it being  modified,
(26) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) said that,  - 796 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VI-24  unless there were a distinction hetween projects,  there would be no point in having a budget at two  levels,
(27) The CHAIRMAN said that such a comment could  only be addressed to the Director-General,
(28) Mr, MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  stated that the Israeli delegate's remark was in  line with his own ideas, The Director-General's  attitude might not be the only one possible, but it  was perfectly justifiable: with ten million dollars,  he could draw up a good programme, but the same  held good for a fourteen-million dollar programme,  without implying that whatever was added in the  second case would necessarily be less good,  Equally well-devised programmes might be based  on different budgets. The Assistant Director-  General thought, however, that there was no point  in reopening a question which the Committee had  discussed at great length when it had first set to  work, and he asked the Canadian delegate if his  purpose would not be better served by a resolution  looking forward to the future, and giving the  Director-General clear directives, rather than by  one deprecating the past, which might very possibly  create an atmosphere inimical to constructive  debate,
(29) The CHAIRMAN agreed with the Assistant  Director-General that the report should be directed  to the future rather than ro the past, but did not  understand the suggestion that projects under the  higher budgetary level were of less value than those  under the normal level,
(30) Mr. PANNETON (Canada) said that his proposal  did refer to the future, Its object was to facilitate  the work of the Committee at future conferences,
(31) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) said that the Canadian  delegate's proposal assumed that there would be  two budgetary levels, whereas the Commttee had  rejected that procedure, The Committee had to  decide on the priorities of projects presented to it  and, judging from experience over the past ten days,  the proposal would not help the Committee in its  work.
(32) The CHAIRMAN asked whetner the Committee  would agree to discuss the proposal when the Appro-  priation Resolution came up for consideration.  It would be a suitable time, since approval of that  resolution involved a decision on the form of the  future budget,
(33) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) supported the  suggestion,
(34) Agreeing with that suggestion, Mr. MAHEU  (Assistant Director-General) thought that the  Canadian delegate's proposal might even appear  in the Conclusion to the report, as a recom-  mendation that the Commission give some  indication of priorities when deciding on the  form of the draft programme and budget for
(35) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) pointed out  that, unless action of the kind proposed by the  delegate of Canada were taken, future conferences  would be faced with the s ume difficulty as past ones,  namely the task of rearranging the budget at the  last minute to meet a reduced budgetary ceiling,  The Canadian delegate's proposal was intended to  avoid such a situation, but there were other methods  of achieving the same end. Governmental repre-  sentation on the Executive Board, for example,  would no doubt go a long way towards solving  difficulties, A decision would have to be taken on  the form of the budget, but he was willing to see  it postponed to a later stage in the discussion,
(36) The CHAIRMAN asked for a decision at the  present juncture: either to vote on the Canadian  delegate's proposal or to accept the Assistant  Director-General's suggestion that an additional  paragraph be inserted in the report giving the  substance of that proposal and asking the Pro-  gramme and Budget Commission to bear it in mind  when preparing the Appropriation Resolution for
1955-56 on the form of the future programme and  budget.
(37) The proposal of the delegate of Canada was put  to the vote and rejected by 4 votes to 6 with no  abstentions,
(38) In reply to the delegate of the United Kingdom,  who wished to see the vote included in the report,  the CHAIRMAN said that it could only be included  with the Committee's approval.
(39) Miss LAISE (United States of America) said  that paragraphs 7, 8 and 9 of the Introduction did  not, to her understanding, correctly describe what  had taken place in the Committee, ‘They implied  that the Committee had accepted the Director -  General's interpretation of "higher budgetary level"  and "present budgetary level” and they made no  mention of the divergence of opinion among  delegates,
(40) The CHAIRMAN asked whether the United  States delegate would agree to the addition,  possibly after paragraph 9, of a statement to the  effect that the Committee had considered the  question of interpretation in relation to future  programmes and budgets and of a record of the  vote on the Canadian delegate's proposal.
(41) Miss LAISE (United States of America) said  that mention should be made of the difference of  opinion regarding the presentation of the pro-  gramme and budget.
(42) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  thought that the United States delegate's request  that mention be made, in paragraph 9, of the  divergence of opinion among the members of the  Committee, was justified, providing that it was  added that, as the views of the dissentient members  were not shared by the majority, the Committee  had not felt obliged to set out any views other than  the majority views.  - 797 -   VI- 24
(43) Mr. CABOUAT (Rapporteur) remarked that it  was not customary to mention in a Committee's  report views which had not been accepted by the  majority; it would, however, be possible to insert  a paragraph covering the point in the supplementary  report on the remodelling of the Organization's  future programme, mentioned in the last paragraph  of the Conclusion,
(44) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) pointed out that para-  graphs 7, 8 and 9 referred to the examination of the  programme and budget for 1955-56, which involved  the question of priorities, whereas the Canadian  delegate's proposal related to the period 1957-58,  for which priorities had been rejected. A record  of the propesal under paragraph 9 would therefore  be inappropriate,
(45) Following an explanatory remark by the  CHAIRMAN, Miss LAISE (United States of America)  said that her delegation was not concerned with the  discussion of the interpretation of higher and  present budgetary levels, What she wished to see in  the report was an indication that, since the Direc-  tor-General saw thc programme as a whole,  attaching equal importance to projects under both  levels, the Committee considered tiat it had the  responsibility of reviewing the programme and,  in order to facilitate the work of the Conference, of  expressing an opinion on priorities wherever  possible.
(46) The CHAIR MAN proposed in order to meet the  wishes of the United States delegate, to place  paragraphs 7 and 8 after paragraph 9.
(47) It was so agreed.
(48) Mr, CABOUAT (Rapporteur) suggested in-  serting a brief reference to budgetary standards in  paragraph 4, since the Committee had observed  improvement in that respect and thought that, as  a whole, budgetary implications had been much  better calculated than in the past,
(49) The suggestion was approved.
(50) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) proposed  the deletion of the words: "but without, in most ‘  cases, making any definite suggestion for amend-  ment" in paragraph 10,
(51) The CHAIRMAN read out the French text,  which vas clearer than the English. He recalled  that the Committee had tried to avoid redrafting  proposals submitted by Member States,
(52) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) gave several  instances where the Commttee had recommended  the non-adoption of proposals and said that  rejection of a proposal was a drastic form of  amendment,
(53) Mr, CABOUAT (Rapporteur) explained that,  in his view, the phrase should be taken to mean  that the Committee had concentrated on the  substance rater than the form of projects; he  - 798 -     ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  added that there had been few ameadments to  proposals put forward, since as a rule the Com-  mittee had proposed either that the projects sub-  mitted be adopted or that they be rejected or  inserted in future programmes.
(54) The CHAIRMAN proposed that the phrase in  question be amended to read: "without in most  cases attempting to modify the substance of or re-  draft the proposals",
(55) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) said that  some change in the phraseology was necessary.  He was also dissatisfied with the words "accom-  panied by an explanatory state:.ent' in the same  paragraph as being too vague.
(56) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the difficulty  was due to translation, which had been done under  great pressure of time,
(57) It was agreed that the words would be redrafted  by the Rapporteur.
(58) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom), referring to  paragraph 13, said that according to his recollection  the Committee had made a specific recommendation  on the time limit for receipt of proposals from  Member Governments for presentation to the  General Conference,
(59) The CHAIRMAN recalled that the suggestion  had been his own, and he had had in mind a tine  limit of not less than six weeks in advance of the  opening of the General Conference,
(60) It was agreed that the paragraph should be  amended.
(61) Miss LAISE (United States cf America) thought  that paragraph 4 should be drafted in more res-  trained terns, and proposed that the second half  of the second sentence should be amended to read:  ". ... document 8C/5 was an improvement on reports  of previous years because of the concise and lucid  way in which it had been drafted”, and omit the  last sentence,
(62) With regard to paragraph 5, a substantive  point had been omitted and she proposed that the  following phrase should be added to the end: but  taking into account the Executive Board's recom-  mendation for a remodelled programme and the fact  that the proposals of the Director-General constitute  a transition towards such a programme",
(63) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  said that the Secretariat agreed that all superlatives  should be deleted, especially any unsolicited  testimonials to its work, .
(64) Mr. Maheu asked whether the delegate of the  United States of America desired an addition to  paragraph 5 or an additional separate paragraph.
(65) On the proposal of the CHAIRMAN it was  agreed to include the substance of the United  States delegate's proposal in an additional  paragraph,   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VI-24
(66) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  thought that, from the drafting point of view, it  would be better to embody the United States  delegate's proposal in a separate paragraph.  Paragraph 5 was strictly concerned with the budget,  whereas her suggestion concerned the preparation  of the future programme, which was to be dealt  with by the Committee in a supplementary report;  a new paragraph should accordingly be inserted.
(67) Mr. CABOUAT (Rapporteur) referred to the  first remark of the delegate of the United States of  America, recalling that the Committee had unani-  mously agreed that the new arrangement of the  programme was a substantial improvement, He  did not think that he had gone further than what had  been said in the meeting, but was quite prepared  to delete the superlatives.
(68) With regard to paragraph 5, he considered  that a further sentence might more appropriately  be added to paragraph 7 of the Conclusion, which  mentioned the trend towards a better balance and  concentration of the programme. Miss Laise's  comment might also be inserted in the Committee's  supplementary report, instead of after paragraph
5 in the Introduction,
(68) Miss LAISE (United States of America) said  that the words which she wished inserted re-  presented not a conclusion of the Committee, but  the underlying assumption on which it had under -  taken the review of the programme and budget,  She would therefore prefer to see them in the  Introduction,
(70) The proposal was seconded by the United  Kingdom delegate and adopted,
(71) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  proposed that the reference to the Final Report of  the Expert Committee on Education for International  Understanding and Co-operation, requested by the  delegate of Norway, should be included after para-  graph 6,
(72) Agreed,  PART | - GENERAL POLICY  CHAPTER 1 — GENERAL CONFERENCE
(73) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) pointed out that,  although it was stated in Chapter I that the Com-  mittee had taken no decision on the seat of the  ninth session of the Conference, a decision was  recorded in the Conclusion.
(74) It was agreed that the report would be suitably  amended,
(75) Mr, CABOUAT (Rapporteur) pointed out that  two different questions were involved. There was  a recommendation that the General Conference  accept India's invitation to hold its ninth session  at New Delhi (a question of principle), but the  reference in Chapter I was simply to a detailed    examination of the budget estimates, which the  Committee had felt to be useless until the General  Coriv.ence had decided on the principle,
(76) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) proposed a reference in  the report to the effect that, while the Commuttee  had decided to recommend in principle that the seat  of the next General Conference should be New Delhi,  it had not been possible, for the reasons stated, to  examine the details,
(77) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  remarked that paragraph 6 of the Conclusion con-  tained a recommendation by the Commuttee that the  General Conference accept the Indian Government's  invitation, coupled with a statement of the financial  implications, He thought the Israeli delegate's  proposal was justified and it might be advisable to  transfer those remarks to Part I, Chapter 1  (General Conference), since, although the appro-  priations proposed by the Director-General had not  been examined in detail, the proposal that the ninth  session be held in India would involve considerably  more expenditure,
(78) Mr, CABOUAT (Rapporteur) concurred,  provided that the statements in paragraph 6 of the  Conclusion were allowed to stand as part of the  general summing up.  PART Il — PROGRAMME OPERATIONS AND SERVICES  CHAPTER 1 — EDUCATION
(79) Miss LAISE (United States cf America) said  that there should be a reference to the emphasis on  the extension of education which had emerged from  the discussions.
(80) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  said that he had had the same thought. He proposed  that the second paragraph should be amended to  read:  "Projects concerning fundamental education and  the extension of school education are and should  remain at the very core of the Organization's work  in connexion with education and should be oriented  towards improving international understanding",
(81) It was so agreed,
(82) On the proposal of Mr. AVIDOR (Israel), it  was agreed to change the word "teachers" in para-  graph (137), line 4, to "educators",
(83) Mr. COWELL (Ui.ted Kingdom) said that  paragraph (137) gave the impression that the major  part of the Conference on Public Education had been  devoted to reports, whereas the Committee's  criticism had been that reports took a long time  to deal with, It had been explained that much time  would be saved in future by the use of simultaneous  interpretation,
(84) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  said that his understanding of the Committee's views  - 799 -   VI-24 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  was that, although tne major part of the time in the  past had been devoted to reports, it was hoped that  in future any increase in time would be given to  educational problems rather than to reports,
(85) Mr, LEE (United States of America) askad for  an explarstion of paragraph (143): International  Educational Development Fund.
(86) The CHAIRMAN recalled that it had beer.  agreed to postpone the item until two recommenda-  tions had been prepared and distributed by the  Director-General, The proposals were now  before the Committee and a substantive discussion  was necessary before the paragraph could be  approved,
(87) Mr, MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  stated that the Secretariat had prepared two draft  resolutions, one of a restricted, the other of a  more general character, defining the Organiza-  tion's policy on the question. In the third section  of the draft resolution, the Secretariat had  endeavoured to draw the attention of the General  Conference to the financial difficulties confronting  certain Member States in the promotion of free  and compulsory primary education, The Secretariat  was asking for authority to take up the problem for  later consideration, if certain projects submitted  to the United Nations failed to materialize. The  last part of the draft resolution easily gives rize to  protracted discussions and, in any case, the  question would be very fully covered by the Pro-  gramme Commission. Moreover, the proposal  referred to in the third section was at the moment  under discussion by the United Nations General  Assembly; after two weeks of debate, a number of  delegations had agreed on a comprehensive text,  which was just about to be put to the vote by the  General Assembly. For all those reasons, although  it was not withdrawing its draft, the Secretariat  thought it would be better for the delegations to  take the initiative of presenting it, and that the  Committee would accordingly deem it advisable  not to take a decision on the third section, but  merely to point out to the Conference how important  the problem was. In conclusion, the Assistant  Director-General proposed that the third section of  the draft resolution be separated from the rest;  the Committee might, if necessary, adopt the first  two sections,
(88) The CHAIRMAN asked whether the Committee  would agree to limit discussion to the first and  second paragraphs in an effort to approve them for  transmission to the Programme and Budget Com-  mission,
(88) Mr. JUNANKAR (liuidia) supported the Chrair-  man's proposal but asked for the inclusion of a  statement to the effect that the Committee  suggested that the Programme and Budget Com-  mission should adopt a suitable resolution on the  subject,
(90) The CHAIRMAN said that the Committee  could, if it desired, recommend the adoption of  - 800 -     the resolution (paragraph 2 of (143)) by the Pro-  gramme and Budget Commission, but it would be  unwise to do so without first studying the resolution,
(91) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) proposed substituting  the following phrase for the first three words of  line 3 of the second paragraph: "a suitable  resolution",
(92) 'The CHAIRMAN insisted that there must be a  substs.ntive discussion if the Committee wished to  make any recommendation,
(93) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) agreed with  the Chairman and proposed that discussion be  deferred.
(94) Mr, PANNETON (Canada) supported the two  previous speakers,
(95) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) agreed with the views  of the United Kingdom delegate, but suggested that  the phrase "in underdeveloped areas” be deleted  from paragraph (143); the rest should stand, as it  summed up the idea which had suggested the  creation of the Fund,
(96) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) said that his proposal  was not substantive, A decision would have to be  taken, but it could be left to the Programme and  Budget Commission,
(97) It was agreed to refer the item to the Pro-  gramme and Budget Commission for appropriate  action,
(98) Mr, ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa-  tion) could not und:rstand the connexion between the  two parts of the second sentence of paragraph (147)  or the significance of the initial word "Although".
(99) Mr. CABOUAT (Rapporteur) said that the idea  behind the second sentence in that paragraph was  that, after discussing the advisability of holding a  regional Conference on free and compulsory educa-  tion, the Committee had decided to let the Director -  General's proposal fcr a Conference in 1956 stand,  while at the same time emphasizing the need to  bear in mind the financial difficulties facing the  Member States in question, and consequently  not to divorce the study of the technical aspects  of the problem from that of the financial aspects.
(100) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Departrnent of  Education), after an explanation by the CHAIRMAN,  still considered the sentence confusing and  proposed that it be divided into two,
(101) Mr. LEE (Taiicu dtates of America) asked  for a clarification of the action which had been  decided in respect of paragraph (143).
(102) The CHAIRMAN explained that the Com-  mittee, realizing that paragraph (143) had wider  implications than the establishment of an Inter-  national Educational Development Fund, had ask <d  the Director-General to draft an appropriate   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDAET VI-24  resolution, That resolution was now being  referred to the Programme and Pudget Commis-  sion with a recommendation that tue Commission  should take appropriate action,
(103) Mr, MAHEU (Assistunt Director-General)  suggested preceding the title of project (143)  {International Educational Development Fund) by  a more general title, such as "Policy for the  development of free and compulsory education”;  that could be followed by the first two sections of  the draft resolution, then by the first paragraph  appearing in the report under (143), followed  again by a further paragraph to the effect that, in  view of the importance of the question, the Com-  mittee referred it to the Programme Commission  for such action as the latter might deem fit,
(104) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) thought that  a reference should be made to the Director-  General's statement to the United Nations,
(105) The CHAIRMAN said that the point would  be included in the Committee's report,
(106) Mr. LEE (United States of America)  expresse himself satisfied with the Assistant  Director-General's explanation,
(107) He said that paragraph (147) did not adequately  cover the discussions that had taken place in the  Committee, in particular the need for activities by  Unesco to enable Member States to help themse.ves.
(108) It was agreed that a suitable reference would  be included in the report,
(109) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) considerea  that paragraph (147) did not summarize the dis-  cussions in 8C/BUD/SR. 3, in which mention was  made of his own suggestion that Regional Confer-  ences should not be held at such short intervals:  it had been agreed that reference should be made  in the Committee's report to the views of the  delegates of the United Kingdom and the United  States of America on the type of conference to be  held, and also to the United Kingdom proposal.
(110) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of  Education) said that the Summary Record did not  contain a decision to postpone ihe 1956 Regional  Conference,
(111) After further discussion between the Chair-  man and the delegates of the United Kingdom and  the United States of America, it was agreed to  draw the attention of the Programme and Budget  Commission to the United Kingdom delegate's  reservation that no further Regional Meetings  should be held until the results of the previous  ones were fully known. The action was in accord-  ance with the summary record,
(112) The CHAIRMAN invited discussion on  paragraph (217): Project 1, 22 - Emergency  educational assistance,
(113) No comment.  - 801 -     Draft Resolutions
(114) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) asked that  the: wording of the last sentence under DR/28 should  be: modified to conform to the customary wording.
(115) Agreed,  CHAPTER 2 — NATURAL SCIENCES
(116) In reply to a question from the United Kingdom  delegate, the CHAIRMAN confirmed that the omission  of any reference to the General Assembly of the  International Union of Biochemistry (paragrapt 33 of  the Natural Sciences Chapter) implied that the  project was left at the present budgetary level,
(117) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of  Natural Sciences) stated that priority had been  accorded only to the International Geophysical Year,
(118) Referring to the draft resolution in document  DR/18, Mr. Auger pointed out that there appeared  to be a mistake in the report; special attention  should have been drawn to the sixth paragraph, which  had nothing to do with the preceding paragraph, and  should have its own sub-heading; his impression  was, moreover, that the Committee had recom-  mended its adoption.
(119) The CHA'RMAN, referring to paragraph (101),  recalled that it had been agreed to alter the title of  the project on Cancer and to omit the word "campaign".
(120) Mr. LEE (United States of America) saw no  ne=d to alter the title, which was only intended to  facilitate reference. He proposed the addition of an  explanatory sentence.
(121) It was agreed to adopt the United States  delegate's suggestion,
(122) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  informed the Committee that the Secretariat had  received a letter from the Director-General of WHO,  which was reproduced in document 8C/PRG/20,  Add. 1, He considered that it would be courteous  for the Committee to refer to it in its report, and  that such a gesture would be appreciated; he also  thought the title already adopted should be retained.  Reverting to the passage in the report dealing with  the arid zone, he proposed tc omit the word  “highest” in the expression "highest priority“.  Draft Resolutions
(123) At the Chairman's request, Mr, RAO (Acting  Chief, Bureau of Programme and Budget) read the  Summary Record concerning paragraph 6 of DR/18,  He recalled his statement that a loan to the  Preparatory Committee of the International Com-  putation Centre could only be made out of the  Working Capital Fund, and Mr. Auger's explanation  on the preferability of a contract to a loan.
(124) Referring to draft resolution DR/29,  Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural   V1-24 ADVISORY COMMITTEE  Sciences) made the point that it was extremely  difficult to grant a loan to a temporary organiza-  tion which would cease to exist once the Centre  was set up and could hardly pass on its liabilities;  he saw no point in entering into legal complications  for such a small sum ($3, 000),
(125) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) saw no  objection to a loan being given: since it was an  inter zovernmental agency, recovery of the loan  would be assured, Unesco itself had received  advances from the United Kingdom Government  in its initial stages,
(126) After further discussion, 1t was agreed to  insert the words "from the Working Capital Fund"  after the word "loan" in the last paragraph under  DR/29.
(127) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of  Natural Sciences) pointed out that DRs 35, 54 and
(128) Mr, CABOUAT (Rapporteur) said that they  had received the same commentary as DRs 42 and
(129) It was agreed that the three resolutions  should be included in the report,
(130) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) recalled  the discussion on Impact and said that a definite  proposal on a lower priority had heen made,
(131) It was pointed out by Mr. AUGER (Di. ector,  Department of Natural Sciences) and the CHAIRMAN  that no definite conclusion had been reacicd on the  proposal.  CHAPTER 3 — SOCIAL SCIENCES DRAFT RESOLUTIONS
(132) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) pointed to the use of  the words "high", "higher" and "highest" in respect  of priority.
(133) It was agreed that the Rapporteur should  standardize the terminology.
(134) Mrs, MYRDAL (Director, Department of  Social Sciences) asked if the last sentence of DR/55  could be redrafted since it referred to programme  as .. "1 as budgetary considerations,
(135) On the proposal of the delegate of Israel, it  was agreed to amend the words after "deferred"  to read: "until a later period".
(136) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) asked if a  more precise wording could be provided for DR/13.
(138) It was also agreed to improve the wording  under DR/21 (b) and to delete the words  "very much" in the first line under  DR/21,  ON P     - 802 -  ROGRAMME AND BUDGET  CHAPTER 4 — CULTURAL ACTIVITIES: DRAFT RESOLUTIONS
(139) Mr, KIRPAL (Department of Cultural Activi-  ties) suggested that the word "'unnecessary" would  be preferable to the word "pointless" at the end of  DR/ 30,
(140) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) said that his  recoli >ction was that both the World Culture Week  and the Unesco Award had been rejected.
(141) Mr, CABOUAT (Rapporteur) explained that  different decisions had been taken on the two items.  The Committee had, by 10 votes with one abstention,  rejected the motion to recommend adopting the first  part of the res. lution (World Culture Week), but it  had, by the same number of votes, suggested that  the item referred to in the second part of the  resolution (Unesco Awards) merely be postponed,  That difference in attitude was made clear in the  report,
(142) Mr, LEE (United States of America) asked  why there was no decision under DR/49,
(143) The CHAIRMAN recalled that the Committee  had been unable to take any action and had decided  to refer the item to the delegation which had sub-  mitted it.  CHAPTER 5 — MASS COMMUNICATION
(144) The CHAIRMAN asked the reason for the  heading "Higher Budgetary Level" before para-  graph (72).
(145) Mr. CABOUAT (Rapporteur) explained that it  had been thought well to draw attention to paragraph
72 in the typescript; any other heading, such as  "Production of a Film", would serve the purpose.
(146) The suggestion was approved,
(147) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  munication) thought that the information given under  paragraph (154) should be more precise; the  reader was referred to the chapter on Cultural  Activities, in which the joint project was not even  mentioned. It should appear between paragraphs
(148) and (312), under Cultural Activities.  Draft Resolutions
(148) With regard to DR/16, Mr. Desjardins  thought the report contained a mistake; he was  under the impression that the Committee had  accepted the Executive Board's recommendation  and the corresponding appropriation; further,  he pointed out that DR/22 called for an appropria-  tion of $30,000; the sum of $6,000 had already  been granted so that the amount involved was  $24, 000,
(149) The CHAIRMAN asked Mr. Rao to  explain the budgetary considerations concern-  ing DR/22,   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET Vi-24
(150) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Pro-  gramme and Budget) read the relative section of  the Summary Records, and it was recalled that  DR/16 had been rejected by a casting vote from the  Chairman,
(151) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) requested  that the drafting of the comme:t on DR/22 should  be amended to conform with the customary wording.  CHAPTER 6 — EXCHANGE OF PERSONS: DRAFT RESOLUTIONS
(152) Mr. CABOUAT (Rapporteur) drew attention  to two typing mistakes in the French text under  DR/24: the word "devrait" should read "devant"  and the semi-colon after "ensemble" should be  chanced to a comma,  CHAPTER 1 — GENERAL RESOLUTIONS
(153) On the suggestion of the CHAIRMAN, 1t was  agreed to insert the words “by the Programme and  Budget Commission’ after the words "set up” in the  third line under paragraph (22).  CHAPTER 8 — DOCLMENTS AND PUBLICATIONS SERVICE
(154) Miss LAISE (Umted States of America)  introduced a resolution submitted by her delegation,  which had already been distributed in typewritten  form. She would welcome any comments or amend-  ments to the language,
(155) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  expressed his appreciation of the United States  delegate's purpose; her draft resolution dealt with  an important question and would receive careful  attention from the Secretariat; it might perhaps  be well to revise the wording, which should leave  no room for ambiguity. In the first paragraph of  the resolution, it would be better to speak of  "documents", instead of "documentation", With  regard to paragraph 2, it would be normal to  follow the customs of Unesco procedure,
(156) The CHAIRMAN proposed that the word  “Organization” in the third line of paragraph (1)  should be changed to "Secretariat", since Member  Governments were in fact the Organization,
(157) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  thought the last paragraph would be improved if it  were more precise, Either it was addressed to  Member States collectively, i.e, to the General  Conference, or it was addressed to Member States  individually, in which case it was hard to see what  action they could take; the most they could do would  be to reduce the number of copies of Unesco  documents they requested,
(158) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) said that the objects  of the resolution were commendable, but he was  not sure that it was correct to present it in the  form of a Conference resolution, He proposed    that it should be submitted for the attention of the  Director-General,
(159) The CHAIRMAN suggested that, in order to  avoid the form of a draft resolution, the Committee  could draw the attention of the Programme and  Budget Commission to the need for examining the  problem with a view to action which would reduce  the volume of documents.
(160) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) supported the proposal,
(161) Mr. COWELL (Umted Kingdom) recalled the  Director-Generalls statement on the internal publica-  tions Board, which was already exercising some  control. It might be useful to indicate specific  documents which were considered unnecessary, and  to keep the quality of documents under review.  Member States and the Director-Generrl were  equally victims of excessive documentation. He  asked whether roneographed documents were subject  to internal review.
(162) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  proposed the insertion of a fresh paragraph after  the first paragraph, in which the Committee would  ask the Programme Commission to recommend that  the Director-General introduce measures with  regard to documents similar to those already  provided for in the case of publications, so as to  reduce their numbers and make them shorter;  and that, if necessary, he seek instructions from  the higher authorities of the Organization,
(163) Miss LAISE (Umited States of America) said  that she would have no objection to calling the  attention of Member Governments to the need to  restrict their requests for numbers of certain types  of documents. She asked whether the proposal  would be submitted to the Administrative or to the  Programme and Budget Commission.
(164) The CHAIRMAN said that the question would  not arise at the present juncture, since the Com-  mittee's report was submitted to both Commissions.
(165) Mr, CABOUAT (Rapporteur) asked whether  the second draft resolution submitted by the  Secretariat was also being dropped, He remarked,  further, that the draft resolutions appearing on the  next page in the draft programme should come after  Chapter 7 (General Resolutions), Lastly, Part IV  should include some mention of the Committee's  recommendation that the salary of the Secretary of  the Staff Association cease to be paid by the  Organization.
(166) Mr, RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Pro-  gramme and Budget) recalled that, in reply to a  question by the United States delegate, the  Director-General had promised to prepare a  paper for submission to the Administrative  Commission.
(167) Miss LAISE (United States of America) said  that mention ought to be made that the Committee  had approved the proposal of the Director-General  - 803 -   VI-24  to eliminate the post of Deputy Director-General  and to create two posts of Assistant Director-  General,
(168) With regard to the Bureau of Personnel and  Management, she would like some mention of the  discussions on reclassifications and the proposal  of the United States delegation that the budgetary  provision under staff costs should be reduced by  $23, 000,
(169) The CHAIRMAN asked whether the situation  regarding the Director-General's Office could not  be made clearer in the report,
(170) It was agreed that it should be,
(171) With regard to the reference to reclassifica-  tions, the CHAIRMAN asked whether a reference  in the conclusion would meet the wishes of the United  States delegate,
(072) Miss LAISE (United States of America),  while agreeing that a reference might appropriately  be made in the Conclusion, regretted that the re-  commendation for a reduction of $23, 000 was still  not dealt with, It was essential for a reference to  the decision on reclassifications to be included in  the body of the report.
(173) It was agreed that the Rapporteur should  include a suitable reference under Chapter 3.  PART IV — COMMON SERVICE COSTS
(174) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) asked why no  reference was included to the decision to delete  the budgetary provisions in 1955 and 1956 for the  salary and allowances for a Secretary to ti.e Staff  Association,
(175) The CHAIRMAN asked for inclusion of a  reference to the amount of $14, 000 in respect of  failure to move the Secretariat to the new Head-  quarters before the end of 1956,
(176) Mr, RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Pro-  gramme and Budget) proposed that the following -  statement be included: "The Committee noted that,  if the Secretariat did not move to the new Head-  quarters building during 1956, certain savings  would be possible in the budget for 1956",
(177) Miss LAISE (United States of America)  proposed the following alternative wording:  "The Committee was infor med that it would not  be possible to move the Secretariat before the  end of 1956 and as a consequence there would be  suppression of certain sums connected with the  move", The approximate amount should be stated,  Miscellaneous draft resolutions submitted by  Member States
(178) The CHAIRMAN read the amended text of  the recommendation on DR/4, which was approved  subject to a minor drafting alteration,  - 804 -     ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET
(178) With regard to DR/50, Mr. AVIDOR (Israel)  pointed out that the word "Deputy" in the title should  be "Assistant".
(180) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom), referring  to 39 EX/5, asked whether an estimhte of the cost  should be given.
(181) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  reminded the Committee that it had already been  decided to deal with the subject in the section  entitled "General Conference", and to refer the  reader to the Conclusion {paragraph 6).
(182) The CHAIRMAN could not understand why the  final draft resolutions gave no indications of  budgetary implications, Inclusion of such informa-  tion would help the work of the Programme and  Budget Commission.
(183) The CHAIRMAN asked whether a statement  had been included with regard to DR/2 (Adoption of  Russian as a working language of Unesco).
(184) Mr, MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  referred to paragraph 14 of the Introduction.
(185) The CHAIRMAN proposed that reference  should be made to the fact that clarification was  still awaited from the Soviet delegate on one point.
(186) A discussion ensued on the wording of para-  graph 14, the CHAIRMAN pointing out that the  impression should not be given that the Commattee  had been prevented from completing its study  merely through lack of time,
(187) It was finally agreed to amend the end of  line 3 of paragraph 14 to read: "on which the  Secretariat was requested to supply".  Conclusion
(188) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) proposed the inclusion  of the following words after "activities' in the sixth  line of paragraph (11): "and administration".
(190) Miss LAISE (United States of America),  referring to the last page of the Conclusion,  proposed that the language should be more concise  and factual,
(191) At the request of Mr, AVIDOR (Israel) it  was agreed to insert "the period 1954-55" in  paragraph 7 in connexion with the reduction of the  number of projects.
(192) Mr, FREY (German Federal Republic) asked  whether paragraph (11) should include a reference  to the non-governmental organizations,
(193) Mr, MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  felt that, at a time when the General Conference,  at every session, urged the desirability of  broadening the membership of international   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON  non-governmental organizations, it would be in-  consistent to treat them as regional units. He  proposed, moreover, that the suggestions of the  United States delegate be put into practice  immediately, and that, in order to help in reducing  PROGRAMME AND BUDGET Vi-25  the volume of Unesco documents, the Committee's  supplementary report be dropped,  The meeting rose at 12,20 a. m,  TWENTY - FIFTH MEETING
17 Novembe r 1954 at 10.30 a.m.  Chairman : Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Australia)  DRAFT REPORT OF THE ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PRO-  GRAMME AND BUDGET (PART ID)  REMODELLING OF THE FUTURE PROGRAMME OF UNESCO  (unoumbered document)
(1) Mr, JUNANKAR (India) asked that mention  should be made in the document of the following  three points, all of which had received support  during the Committee's discussions: targets for  the concentration of the programme in different  fields; the need for decentralization of the pro-  gramme and activities to meet the needs of  different regions; the provision of funds for action  programmes in Member States.
(2) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) proposed deletion  of the last sentence of paragraph 9 on the grounds  that the Committee's decision and the explanations  given by the Chairman of the Executive Board  rendered it superfluous,
(3) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) drew attention  to a contradiction between paragraphs 7 and 9,  In the first, the Committee was opposed to  apportioning funds between the two parts of the  programme, and in the second it advised that a  decision should be taken on the balance to be  established in the programme, He assumed that  the word balance referred to the division of funds.
(4) Mr. LEE (United States of America) agreed  with the United Kingdom delegate: paragraph 7  explained the difficulties in reaching a decision on  the balance between continued and special activities,  while paragraph 9 said that a decision should be  taken, While appreciating that there were  difficulties in apportioning the programme between  the two types of activity, it was his recollection  that the Committee had approved the directive in  the report on remodelling of the future programme  of Unesco (document 8C/PRG/13) to the effect that  the major portion should apply to special activities.
(5) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) pointed out that, in  the report under discussion, it was recommended  that a larger proportion of the ordinary budget be in  future reserved for the special activities requested  by Member States.
(6) The CHAIRMAN, referring to the Belgian  delegate's remark, said that the sentence in  paragraph 68 referring to the greater part of the  budget did not concern only Member States. In  reply to a further question from the delegate of  Belgium, he confirmed that paragra,.. C2 referred  to Member States.
(7) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Lirector-General) pointed  out that the second sentence of paragraph 68 con-  tained an idea similar to that in paragraph 62,  mentioned by Mr. Florkin, However, paragraph
68 referred to special activities as a whole and was  therefore wider in scope.
(8) Mr, FLORKIN (Belgium) entirely agreed with  the Assistant Director-General's interpretation,  but recalled that, according to the information  previously supplied by the Chairman of the Executive  Board, the proportion of the budget reserved for  special activities was already greater than that  allowed for general activites.
(9) Mr. LEE (United States of America) said that,  although in the document paragraphs 62 and 68 both  came under the heading "Activities undertaken at  the request of Member States", paragraph 68  referred to the whole programme.
(10) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) agreed with the  United States delegate, but wished to emphasize  that the hope expressed in paragraph 68 had  already been fulfilled. In any case the paragraph  in question could only mean that the percentage of  the budget allotted to special activities should be  further increased,
(11) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  realized that a problem of interpretation might  arise, and that there might be uncertainty whether  a larger proportion was to be devoted to special  activities than to other activities, or a larger    - 805 -