ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  FIFTH MEETING  i6 November 1954 at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman Mr. HUZAYIN (Egypt)  later: Mr. BEEBY (New Zealand)  ITEM 9.3.1 OF REVISED AGENDA: AMENDMENT TO ARTICLE V  OF THE CONSTITUTION (STRUCTURE OF THE EXECUTIVE  BOARD) (documents 8C/ADM/1 and 8C/ADM/1 Add.) (continued)
(1) The CHAIRMAN called on the delegate of  Switzerland.
(2) Mr. BARBEY (Switzerland) thought it would  clarify the situation if, before dealing with the  substance cf the question, he explained that, even if  the Umted States amendment were adopted, the  Swiss Government would still nominate Professor  Jean Piaget, the retiring member, who, although he  preferred the status quo, would not decline  re-election.
(3) His Government had instructed him, however,  to defend the presen system governing the compo-  sition of the Executive Board, on the grounds that  followed-
(4) What would become of the privacy of certain  Board meetings, if the Board were changed into a  senate of government representatives obliged to  report to their governments? Would that not mean  a return to debates cluttered up with purely  adm:mstrative considerations, which a recent  decision had transformed into direct and fruitful  discussions? Was not the present method the best,  leaving, as it did, complete freedom to the members  of the Board to speak on their own behalf as well as  on that of their governments? The procedure now  under consideration would surely compel them to  come to the meetings armed with instructions from  their own ministries. Lastly, was there anything in  the Executive Board's existing set-up to prevent  members from remaining in close touch with their  governments, even 1f they were not in fact official  government representatives?
(5) Room must be left for a certain measure of  diversity, so as to give the Board's proceedings  that non-political character which was basic to the  success of Unesco.
(6) Weighing the proven advantages of the existing  system against the risks of the new one proposed,  Mr. Barbey wondered whether thie General  Conference really wished, or would be well advised,  to attempt a constitutional reform at a time when,  even if it were too early to know the tree by its  fruits, the quality of the current programme, which  gave prospects of good future prcgrammes, showed  that the Organization was constitutionally sound.
(7) Accordingly, the Swiss delegation, while not  closing its mind to possible reforms which more  prolonged experience might show to be desirable,  favoured maintaining the status quo and would  |     vote against the amendment presented by the  United States of America.
(8) Mr. MENDOZA (Guatemala) supported the  amendment submitted by the United States delegation,  giving his reasons, Unesco was made up of Member  States, and its organs - including the Executive  Board - should therefore represent their governments,  The Board's task was to interpret and give effect to  the collective desire of the General Conference,  within which the governments expressed their  opinions, Members of the Board were not experts  preparing and implementing a programme, Their  nominations depended on the approval of their  respective governments; indeed, the governments  supported those nominations. Particularly in the  intervals between General Conferences, the members  of the Board were genuine representatives of their  governments, and interpreted and followed out the  policies which the latter laid down. The Board  should be backed by the confidence of the General  Conference, just as the Conference relied on the  confidence of the Member States. Thus government  confidence was extended indirectly to the members  of the Executive Board, and influenced their  activities, It was impossible to separate a member  of the Executive Board from his government. The  Board was an international body; the governments  looked upon its members as their envoys and  delegates. Furthermore, every member could be  replaced by a substitute, who, however, was always  drawn from the same nation as himself. The  Guatemalan delegate expldined that his support of  the United States amendment was in respect of  principle, since when the time to vote came he  would do so in agreement with the Latin American  countries, He expressed his agreement with the  amendment submitted by the Japanese delegation,  and added that he would even agree to the number cf  Board members being raised to 24; in that way,  more adequate representation of the various  countries of the world would be secured. His  Government was opposed to re-election of members  of the Executive Board, and to the holding of  practically permanent positions there; it favoureda  policy of election by rotation, so that all Member  States should at some time be represented on the  Board.
(9) Mr. SHARIF (Pakistan), on the understanding  that voting would not take place until Thursday,  deferred making a statement at the present stage,  He asked, if the United States amendment were  adopted, whether the members of the Executive Board  - 530 -   ADMINISTRATIVE  would be allowed to accept travel expenses from  Unesco, or would governments be responsible for  such expenses?
(10) The CHAIRMAN suggested that the issue should  be settled first and problems of detail discussed later.
(11) Sir Kenneth GRUBB (United Kingdom) associated  himself with the principle of the United States amend-  ment, He recalled that the same principle had been  advocated independently four years previously by the  United Kingdom delegation. During those {our years  events hud confirmed the opinion then expressed.  Before attending the current session of the General  Conference, he had carefully studied all questions  relating to the Constitution and had been surprised to  see how the Executive Board was constituted. He had  not been able to see how Unesco could expect tc carry  out its work effectively when the members of the  Executive Board did not have the official support of  Member States. He thought that a Board composed  of independent members, each having the official  support of his government, would be the best source  of help to the Director-General in his preparation of  the programme. The General Conference was itself  totally different from an Executive Board of official  character and could prevent such an Executive Board  from stifling the programme. He pointed out that the  greatest enthusiasm for the work of Unesco was to be  found amongst government officials, who, under the  United States amendment, would be able to be  members of the Executive Board.
(12) With reference to the remarks made by the  delegate of Uruguay at the previous meeting, he  thought that the argument put forward would only  apply if there were a world federation. He would  have less confidence in the United States amendment  if Article V. A. 2 of the Constitution were removed.
(13) Finally, he could see no valid reason for  deferring discussion of the principle of the United  States amendment indefinitely.
(14) Mr. POMPEI (Italy) first explained that the  Italian Government had left members of the National  Comrussion and of the Italian delegation the greatest  discretion in regard to the question, which was so  important for the future of the Organization, He then  went on to say that those members had, after some  hesitation, decided to vote for the amendment  submitted by the United States of America.
(15) The question was in fact less crucial than  appeared at first sight, It was not a matter of voting  for States instead of individuals, but of electing  candidates put forward by States, on the understanding  that the candidates would be chosen from among  persons distinguished in the various branches of  culture, education and science, whose reputation and  competence would be a guarantee against any attempt  to replace them arbitrarily,
(16) The essential difference between the two metnods  lay in the fact that under the present system the  decisions of Board members, who were elected with  their governments! approval, did not commit their  countries, whereas the object of the proposed  amendment was to increase the responsibility of  Member States. That point was very important  indeed, for since the bienmal conference system had    COMMISSION  been introduced it had become necessary for the  Director-General (he himself had said so and put it in  writing) to rely, more surely and directly than ever  before, on the support of the Member States.
(17) It had been objected that it was difficult to  reconcile the fact of Board members being government  representatives with the fact of their receiving their  mandate from the General Conference, But was the  Conference itself not an Assembly of States? There  was no incompatibility there, either legal or political.
(18) The Italian delegation had never lost sight of the  desirability of having the various spheres of culture  well represented on the Executive Board. That  consideration was well to the fore in paragraph A.2  of the amendment, and the method of recruitment  would not militate against it; if those elected were  distinguished persons, it would be they who would  influence their governments, not the reverse, If that  were not to be so, could it be doubted that such  persons would be independent minded enough to resign?
(19) For those reasons the Italian delegation would  vote in favour of the proposed amendment,
(20) Mr. MAYER (France) reminded the Commission  that the United States delegate, in submitting his  amendment, had emphasized the extreme importance  of the question, saying that the fate of the Organization  would largely depend on the decision taken. He,  Mr. Mayer, 1ully agreed that the problem was a  serious one, and its seriovsness was a prime factor  in determining the French delegation to combat the  proposal,
(21) Article V of the Constitution stated that "The  Executive Board shall consist of twenty members  elected by the General Conference from among the  delegates appointed by the Member States ......... .  Was that not a sufficient guarantee, which should give  complete satisfaction to the supporters of the  amendment?
(22) What would be the practical consequences of  electing members on a basis of rotation, as had been  said could be done by means of unofficial agreements?
(23) If a candidate were nominated by his government,  one of two things would happen: either the General  Conference would give way to pressure, which would  be all the more intolerable, the greater the nation  that exercised it; or, by refusing, it would precipitate  a painful conflict, from which the rejected candidate's  country would retire humiliated,
(24) Under the terms of A. 4 (in Annex III) which  referred to nomination twice in the singular, such a  conflict might we!l increase in seriousness, With one  foot planted on the firm ground of scientific and cultural  activities, and the other on the moving sands of  fluctuating domestic policies, whom would such a  member, representing at once Unesco and a single  government, obey?
(25) There again the alternatives would be painful: 1f  he were a weak character, he would be the tool of his  government; if he were forceful, he would stand out  against his orders, and be compelled to resign - and  such a resignation could not fail to deal a blow to both  the Executive Board and Unesco.
(26) Mr. Mayer then instanced grave eventualities,  independent of the Organization, which might produce  mass resignations; the General Conference might  then, after placing its confidence in twenty  - 531 -   v-5  candidates, suddenly find itself faced with a Board of  a completely different composition.
(27) Referring to the Italian delegate's statement that  the adoption of the amendment would inspire greater  confidence in the Organizatior on the part of govern-  ments, the speaker commenrted that what Unesco  most needed was the confidznce of the peoples, and  independence of thought, Was sufficient importance  being attached to the possible moral consequences of  a change of structure, especially in countries  possessing a large number of independent universities?
(28) Had not the Executive Board, moreover, already  made it quite clear that it hoped for the rejection of  the amendment? The Board should not be a piecemeal  collection of State representatives; it should be an  entity serving one and the same ideal, an ideal based  on changeless cultural values, free from political  passions and fluctuations,
(29) It was a question, Mr. Mayer concluded, not of  converting Unesco into a supra-national authority,  but of avoiding a return to the concept of the all-  powerful State. In rejecting the change of structure  proposed, the French delegation was satisfied that it  was remaining faithful to the principles set forth in  the preamble to the Constitution, It therefore  proposed that the status quo be maintained; that  system had stood the test of time, whereas tne one  now proposed carried within it the seeds of the indirect  introduction of political factors which must inevitably  constitute a danger for Unesco.
(30) Mr. FERNANDEZ MORENO (Argentina) was in  favour of the United States amendment, both for  reasons of law and principle and on practical grounds.  The mandates of members of the Executive Board  originated with the Member States; their credentials  should therefore be those of their respective  governments. They were elected "from among the  delegates a pointed by the Member States’, in  accordance with Article V of the Constitution.  Paragraph 12 of the same Article, which stated that  members of the Executive Poard should exercise the  powers delegated to them "on behalf of the Conference  as a whole and not as representatives of their  respective governments’, contradicted earlier  paragraphs of that Article. It would be unrealistic to  imagine that members of the Board could break their  ties with their respective governments. There was  no fear that the United States amendment would  destroy the international character of Unesco.
(31) The amendment made no mention of the rotation  principle; but the latter had been explicitly advocated  by the United States and Australian delegations, and  should be incorporated into Clause 3 when the Legal  Committee drew vp the final text, The speaker  agreed that the membership of the Board should be  raised to 24. The present members should cease  their functions forthwith, in order that a better  representation of all countries should be arrived at.
(32) Mr. BARRIOS (Nicaragua) disagreed with the  remarks made during the morning meeting by the  delegate of Uruguay, It was unfair to suggest that the  General Conference would deserve the name of  Assembly of Despots if it approved the United States  amendment, The General Conference could not set  itself up as a judge of peoples and States so far as  ADMINISTRATIVE     COMMISSION  their internal systems were concerned, The  Uruguayan thesis would lead to the issue of delegates’  credentials not by the Foreign Ministers but by the  National Commissions. Unesco had been created and  was maintained by States and governments, not by  scientists and thinkers, If the group of intellectuals  composing the Executive Board did not propagate the  atmosphere of freedom and human dignity that the  world desired, the same danger would be present as  with anti-democratic States, Governments should not  be deprived of the possibility of maintaining close  relations with the Organization through their  representatives on the Executive Board.
(33) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) expressed regret at  having to oppose the amendment submitted by the  United States delegate. But both the Government and  the National Commission of Belgium considered that  the change in structure would be calculated to imperil  the Organization's very oper tion.
(34) If the members of tne r.ecutive Board were to  become government representatives, they would  clearly have to follow instructions and obey orders,  instead of having only the interests of Unesco itself at  heart. Even eminent figures in science, education  and culture would find themselves bound by their  obligations to the State. There was no doubt that men  of truly independent intellectual and moral stamo would  in many cases be unable to submit to that form of  pressure.
(35) In any case, although Unesco by virtue of its  Constitution was an organization of separate States, it  did not follow that the Executive Board must of  necessity consist of government representatives.
(36) On the contrary, Mr, Baugniet thought that  the principle of State sovereignty found its place better  in the existing system, which safeguarded more  effectively the Member States not represented on the  Board, It had been claimed that the present  procedure might face a member of the Board with the  dargerous necessity of having to take decisions  contrary to his government's wishes. The proposed  amendment would not change that, since a majority of  members might take decisions at variance with those  acceptable to a particular State, 1n which case the  representative of that State would be placed in exactly  the same position.
(37) Finally, the system proposed offered States not  represented less assurance that they would not one  day see a Board member forced to resign because of  serious disagre ement with his government, and be  replaced by someone less independent,
(38) Before concluding, the Belgian delegate reminded  the Commission that the confidence felt in Unesco,  particularly in intellectual circles, was not unreserved.  Would it not in the end create widespread mistrust if  the Executive Board, instead of being a body of  outstanding people responsible only to the General  Conference, were converted into a group of  government servants?
(39) In the light of the foregoing considerations, the  Belgian delegation would vote against the adoption of  the modifications proposed.
(40) Mr. CHENG CHI-PAO (China) supported the  United States amendment. The substance of the motion  was not revolutionary and did not constitute a marked  - 532 -   ADMINISTRATIVE  departure from past procedure. In the past,  members of the Executive Board had been elected  from delegations but no member had served without  the confidence of his government, The United States  motion made the concurrence of governments more  specific, in order to strengthen the member's  individual position and that of the Board as a whole.  The Executive Board had not been as strong in the  past as had beer imagined and there was ample  reason for strengthening it. He thought that the  proposed rotation of representatives would provide  a remedy for the objection that, if the Board were  composed only of government representatives, then  only the governments having members on the Board  would be represented. The proposal submitted by the  delegate of Japan to increase the number of members  on the Executive Board would also help to allay fears,  He hoped that it would be possible to increase the  number even beyond that proposed by the delegate of  Japan. The objection that no work could be done by  the Executive Board without lengthy government  consultations could be countered by the knowledge that  there was always sufficient time to study the agenda,  On any major matters arising, there would always be  time for membe ‘> to consult their governments.
(41) Mr. PAGE (Canada) indicated that the Canadian  delegation had given much study to the question and  stated that he fully supported the principle of the  United States proposal. He supported the principle  that the Executive Board should be responsible to the  General Conference for the execution of Unesco's  programme and would like to see that principle stated  in a separate clause. There was no conflict between  the two principles. What Unesco had accomplished  had been done with the interest and support of Member  States. The governments giving intellectual and  financial help were responsible to their people for the  proper use of that help. The only way of carrying out  that responsibility effectively wculd be to have a  representative on the Executive Board. Government  representation would increase the interest of Member  States in the work of Unesco. There was a distinction  between the principle and its application, but the  degree of application would not affect the principle,  In his opinion, the concept of having permanent  members on the Board was bad. He appreciated the  arguments which had been put forward both for and  against the motion, but urged that the Commission  should accept the principle of government represent-  ation on the Board as being in the best interests of  Unesco and its programme. He proposed that the  proposal should be referred to the Legal Committee  for study and subsequent recommendations  concerning its application.
(42) Mr. STAHL (Sweden) supported the Umted  States amendment, He thought that the raain argument  in favour of the amendment was that it would establish  a stronger link between Unesco and individual  governments.
(43) The CHAIRMAN then asked the meeting to decide  whether the debate should be closed at that stage, or  left open until Thursday.
(44 Mr, BAUGNIET (Belgium) preferred to close     COMMISSION V-5  the debate at once and pass on to the voting on  Thursday.
(45) Mr. KELLY (Australia) opposed the suggestion.  The Commission should ret ain its right to hold an  open discussion after the Legal Committee had  reported on the two points which had been referred  to it: (1) whether the proposal submitted by the  Japanese delegation was a motion or an amendment;
(2) whether an increase in the number of members of  the Executive Board was a matter of form or a matter  of substance,
(46) Mr, KOTSCHNIG (United States of America)  pointed out that a general debate could be closed,  while the discussion of specific items was left open,
(47) Mr. KELLY (Australia) moved that the general  debate be resumed after receipt of the advice of the  Legal Committee on Thursday afternoon.
(48) The motion was seconded by the delegate of  Israel.
(49) Mr. FRAG... IRIBARNE (Spain), on the question  whether the Japanese amendment should be taken  separately or not, suggested that the Commission  should follow Rule 85 and Rule 86, paragraphs 1 and
3, of the Rules of Procedure, under which it should  be taken separately.
(50) The CHAIRMAN said it was important to decide  whether the Japanese propossl was a motion or an  amendment, for one reason only: if the amendment to  the Constitution contained in the motion submitted by  the United States and other delegations were rejected,  the Japanese amendment would fall or stand on its  own, according to the decision taken.
(51) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) explained that it was  impossible to modify the structure of a Constitution  approved by an assembly unless special  conside rations of procedure were observed.
(52) A substantive change had to be submitted six  months before it was to be discussed by the Conference;  the amendment proposed by the United Siates of  America had fulfilled that condition, For an amend-  ment to an amendment only three months' notice was  necessary, and the Japanese motion had been  submitted in accordance with that requirement,
(53) As to whether it was possible to take a word out  of the Japanese amendment and transfer it to the  American motion, while discarding the Japanese  amendment as a whole, that point should be submitted  to the Legal Committee, which would be glad to  answer it, and any other relevant question which  delegates wished to bring tc its notice,
(54) Mr. KELLY (Australia) reminded the meeting  that there was also a Canadian amendment to the four  power proposal (d>cument 8C/ADM/1, Annex II). In  which order should those different motions be taken”
(55) The CHAIRMAN replied thai no decision could  be taken on the order of priority until it was known  whether the amendment presented by the Japanese  delegation was an amendment to the Constitution  - 533 -   v-5 ADMINISTRATIVE  or an amendment to an amendment of the  Constitution.  (F6) M1. HAGUIWARA (Japan) was surprised that  the Japanese amendment should call for so much  legal consideration. Since the Legal Committee's  answer could not be given immediately, even though  it was most desirable that it be obtained as quickly  as possible, Mr. Haguiwara asked for the  Administrative Commission's meeting scheduled for  the following morning to be cancelled.
(57) The Japanese delegate then stated that, in his  Government's view, the amendment he was submitting  was intended not to be independent but, on the  contrary, to be very closely linked with the United  States amendment; and that if the latter were rejected  the other would ipso facto be rejected too.
(58) Should the Legal Committee voice the opposite  opinion and treat the Japanese amendment in a way  contrary to its author's intentions, Mr. Haguiwara  would have to consult his Government in order to  ascertain whether it would not prefer to withdraw its  amendment altogether.
(59) Mr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America)  added that it would be very useful if the Legal  Committee could supply the necessary answers on  the following day. His delegation's opinion had been  that it was not necessary to refer the question on the  Japanese amendment to that Committee. The delegate  of Japan had just confirmed the fact, already contained  in document 8C/ADM/1 Add., that the promoters of  the amendment looked upon it as an amendment to a  motion, not as a motion in itself, since, if it were a  motion, it could not be discussed until six months  after it had been presented. Mr. Kotschnig though  the difficulties involved in the Canadian proposal  could be solved if the one sentence in which it differed  from the four power proposa! were taken out and  presented as an amendment to it (document 8C/ADM/1  Annex Il, paragraph 4, "or when in special circum-  stances it becomes necessary for a Member State to  change its representative on the Board"). If that  were done, work on the proposal as a whole could  proceed.
(60) There was a four power amendment to the  Constitution, a Japanese amendment to it and a  Canadian amendment to it. A decision on principle  could be reached on those three proposals, which  could then be sent to the Legal Committee for analysis  and proper drafting. If additional amendments that  did not apply to questions of substance were put  forward in the meantime, they also could be referred  to the Legal Committee, which would then formulate  the precise texts to be voted on.
(62) The CHAIRMAN asked for a reply to the motion  put by the Australian delegate to adjourn the debate  until Thursday. He announced that it had been  arrauged that tlie Legal Committee would be meeting  the foliowing morning.    COMMISSION
(63) At the suggestion of the delegate of Japan,  Mr. KELLY (Australia) agreed to propose ad;ourn-  ment not necessarily until Thursday, but until  the Legal Committee had given its answers,
(64) Mr. MENDOZA (Guatemala) remarked that there  was some confusion in the discussion, aud asked for  clarification, He had originally understood that the  question vrouid be referred to the Legal Commitee;  subsequently, that decisions of principle would be  taken before such reference to the Committee, He  wished to know what the Legal Committee was to be  consulted about. He considered that the same  procedure should be fol" .wed in regard to the  amendment in question as in regard to other amend-  ments, The Administrative Commission should  decide its attitude to the United States amendment,  and then consult the Legal Committee, It was not  necessary to consult the Legal Committee on whether  the Japanese amendment was or was not an amendment  to the United States one. Nor did the Guatemalan  delegate consider it necessary to consult that  Committee on whether the membership of the Executive  Board should be raised to 22. Accordingly, he wished  to submit a formal motion,
(65) The CHAIRMAN regretted that it was impossible  at that stage to discuss a new motion. The motion for  adjournment had precedence,
(66) It was agreed to adjourn the debate until  Thursday afternoon,  ITEM 9.3,4 OF REVISED AGENDA: DRAFT AMENDMENTS TO  THE RULES OF PROCEDURE OF THE GENERAL CONFERENCE  (documents 8C/ADM/3 (I) and 8C/ADM/3 (III)
(67) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) stated that Rule 106  of the Rules of Procedure had been frequently  criticized for its lack of clarity. The text before the  Commission (8C/ADM/3(I)) was an attempt to improve  its wording; the sense of the Rule remained, naturally,  unchanged,
(68) Mr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America)  re ommended that the discussion on document
8C/ADM/3 (I) be referred to the Legal Committee.
(69) Seconded by lie delegate of Israel and adopted.
(70) At the reques« of the delegate of the United  Kingdom, seconied by the delegate of Egypt, document
8C/ADM/3 (III) was also referred to the Legal  Committee.
(71) It was agreed that the Commission would not  meet on the following morning, and that the Legal  Committee would be asked to deal with the questions  referred to it by the Commission at that time.  The meeting rose at 6.20 p.m.  - 534 -