12 November 1954, 6.10 p.m.  Chairman : Mr. AWAD (Egypt)  OPENING OF TIE MEETING AND NOMINATION OF A CHAIRMAN
(1) Mr, SABA (Legal Adviser) declared the meeting  open and requested members of the Legal Committee  to elect their chairman, The Nominations Committee  had put forward the name of Mr. Mohamed Awad  Mohamed, leader of the Egyptian delegation. In the  absence of any observations, the choice of Mr. Awad  was automatically accepted.    (Mr. Awad took the chair.)
(2) The CHAIRMAN, after expressing his thanks for  the honour done him, proposed that the meeting be  adjourned and that the General Conference be  informed of this decision.  The meeting rose at 6.20 p.m,  SECOND MEETING
17 November 1954, at 10.30 a.m.  Chairman: Mr, AWAD (Egypt)  ELECTION OF A VICE-CHAIRMAN AND A RAPPORTEUR
(1) The CHAIRMAN said that the first business of  the Committee was the election of a Vice-Chairman  und of a Rapporteur,
(2) Mr. HUZAYIN (Egypt) proposed, and the  proposal was duly seconded, that Mr, Jaramillo  Arango (Colombia) should be elected Vice-Chairman  of the Committee.
(3) It was also proposed, and the proposal was  seconded, that Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) be elected  Rapporteur,
(4) Both these proposals were adopted,
(5) Mr, BAUGNIET (Belgium) thanked the Committee  for the honour thus done him. However, he could  agree to act as Rapporteur only provided that that    would not prevent him from speaking freely during  the discussions.
(6) The CHAIRMAN said that anyone acting as  Rapporteur was rendering a service to the Committee.  The Rapporteur would of course retain complete  liberty to put forward an independent point of view.
(7) Mr. JARAMILLO ARANGO (Colombia) expressed  his appreciation of the honour done to him,  DISCUSSION OF QUESTIONS REFERRED TO THE  LEGAL COMMITTEE BY THE ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION
(8) Mr. SABA (Lega! Adviser) said that the following  questions had been referred to the Committee by the  Administrative Commission: (a) Item 9. 3.2 of the  agenda - Draft amendments to Articles V and VI of  the Constitution, proposed by the Director-General  - 880 -   LFGAL COMMITTEE VIII-2  (reports of the Director-General), (b) Item 9.3.4 of  the agenda - Draft amendments to the Rules of  Procedure of the General Conference; (c) Item 9.3.3  of the agend> - Draft amendment to the Constitution,  relating to the withdrawal of Member States.
(9) On the last item, Mr. Saba recailed that a  decision of principle had already been taken by the  Administrative Commission, which had declared in  favour of introducing into the Constitution a clause  enabling Member States to withdraw un their own  decision alone.
(10) Mr. Saba went on to say that the Committee had  also been asked by the Administrative Commission  to take a decision on two iegal questions connected  with item 9.3.1 of the agenda (Draft amendments to  Article V of the Constitution - structure of the  Executive Board).
(11) The first of those two questions was as follows:  on 11 August 1954 the Japanese Government had  submitted a proposal to modify a draft amendment  already presented to the Director-General by the  United States Government, the text of which was  reproduced in document CL/943 Annex 1, If the  American proposal were rejected, could the  amendment proposed by Japan be adopted? In other  words, could the Generai Conference, after rejecting  a draft amendment, accept a pruposal which had  itself been submitted as an amendment to that draft?
(12) The second legal point on which the Committee  was asked to give its opinion was the following:  should a change in a figure (such as the change  which would increase the number of members of the  Executive Board from 22 to 24) be regarded as a  formal change, or cs a change of substance? In  accordance with Rule 105 of the Rules of Procedure,  the General Conference could in fact adopt certain  purely formal changes without prior communication  to Member States.
(13) The CHAIRMAN asked the Committee to begin  by examining Mr. Saba's second point.
(14) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) considered it  advisable to exercise great prudence whenever it  was contemplated changing Unesco's Constitution,  Article XIH of the Constitution, under which such  amendments became effective upon receiving the  approval of the General Conference by a two-thirds  majority, already constituted an important exception  to the much stricter rules usually followed in matters  of international law.
(15) Mr. Haguiwara also drew the Committee's  attention to the very restrictive nature of the terms  used in Rule 105 of the Rules of Procedure, where  the changes which the Conference inight adopt  without prior communication to Member States were  described as "purely matters of drafting”.
(16) For his part Mr, Haguiwara thought that a  change which would result in the number of members  of the Executive Board being increased from 22 to 24  could not be considered purely a matter of drafting,  and that it would therefore be dangerous to treat it  as such,
(17) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) thought it well to  remind the meeting that the question whether a change  in figures could be regarded purely a matter of    drafting had already been raised at the seventh session  of the General Conference as a result of proposals  submitted by the Canadian delegation. The latter had  asked the General Conference to decide that an  amendment consisting of a change of figures, or of  proportions, could not be regarded as a substantive  change. In view of the arguments then put forward in  the Legal Committee and the Administrative Commis -  sion, the Canadian delegation had finally decided to  withdraw its proposal and ask the Executive Board  and the Director-General to examine the possibility  of changing the Rules of Procedure dealing with  amendments to the Constitution (Rules 103 to 106).
(18) However, the Administrative Commission found  that some delegations did not wish the interpretation  given by the Commission to Rule 105 of the Rules of  Procedure to be taken as a precedent binding upon the  General Conference.
(19) These then, concluded Mr. Saba, were the  precedents on which the Committee could, if it so  wished, base its decision on the question now submitted  to it for examination.
(20) Furthermore, at its seventh session the General  Conference had occasion to interpret and apply Rules
105 and 106 when the United Kingdom delegation sub-  mitted a proposal concerning the tenure of office of  members serving on the Executive Board in 1952.  Various solutions had been suggested and had been the  subject of draft amendments forwarded to Member  States within the time-limit fixed by the Constitution.  The United Kingdom proposal differed slightly from  those draft amendments ani, in view of the temporary  nature of its provisions, was not regarded by the  Conference as a substantive amendment; it was  adopted.
(21) In view of the importance of the Executive  Board's work, Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) thought that  an amendment designed to change the number of its  members from 22 to 24 could not be considered purely  a matter of drafting; in his opinion, such an amend-  ment constituted "a substantive change".
(22) Mr. WFST (United Kingdom) said he was not a  legal expert. Nor had he been present at the seventh  session of the General Conference, at which the  amendments mentioned by the Legal Adviser had been  discussed. He did feel, however, that what had  happened at that session could not be regarded as an  irrevocable precedent governing the decisions which  the Comraittee now has to take.
(23) To use non-legal terminology, he thought that a  proposal for an increase in the membership of the  Executive Board was a serious one. He had much  sympathy with the view expressed by the delegate of  Lebanon. The ratio obtaining between the size of the  Board and the total number of Member States was so  i.nportant, and had such an effect on the whole  Organization, that it was difficult to regard such a  proposal as merely a matter of drafting.
(24) Mr. PAGE (Canada) strongly endorsed the view  expressed by the previous speaker that such a proposal  was not merely a drafting matter, but a question of  substance.  - 881 -   VIII-2 LEGAL
(25) The CHAIRMAN askea whether he could assume  that the Committee unanimously considered an increase  a«nthe number of members of the Board to twenty-four  to be a substantive change.
(26) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) observed that what  the Committee was being asked to decide was not the  actual number of seats on the Executive Board, but  whether a change of figure could or could not be  regarded as merely a formal change,
(27) Mr. HUZAYIN (Egypt) moved that the Committee  adopt the following motion: "The Legal Committee  considers that any change in the membership of the  Executive Board, as proposed by Japan, is not  merely a matter of drafting."
(28) Mr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America)  said that there should be no mention of the Japanese  proposal. Several delegations had raised the question  of increasing the membership of the Board beyond  the figure proposed by Japan,
(29) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) suggested that no  mention be made of any figure, but that the Committee  confine itself to expressing its opinion that any change  made in the number of members of the Executive  Board was a substantive change.
(30) Mr. HUZAYIN (Egypt) agreed to the change in  his motion.
(31) Mr. JARAMILLO ARANGO (Colombia) said that  the change discussed by the Legal Committee regard-  ing the number of members of the Executive Board  was a substantive and not a merely formal change.  There was a proposal to increase the number of  members of the Executive Board; it was no mere  matter of drafting but was a subject on which the  General Conference would give a final decision.
(32) Mr. BAUGNIET (Rapporteur) submitted to the  Committee a draft resolution worded thus:  "The Legal Committee is of opinion that any  change in the number of members of the Executive  Board cannot be regarded as a change which is  purely a matter of drafting."
(33) The Rapporteur's text was then put to the vote  and adopted by 10 votes to 1 with 2 abstentions,
(34) Mr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America),  explaining his abstention, said that Rules 103 to 106  of the Rules of Procedure should not be interpreted  in too narrow a sense, Of course, any change in the  Constitution was a most important matter, But, if  those Rules were interpreted too narrowly, no room  would be left for any rewording of amendments duly  submitted to the Conference, and it might even be  that a minnrity would be able to prevent adoption of  an amendment by the Conference on purely formal  grounds. As regarded the Japanese amendment  itself, proposing an increase of two members, he was  convinced that the change proposed was no mere  drafting matter, but he had sericus doubts whether  it was a matter of substance.    COMMITTEE
(35) The CHAIRMAN said that the Legal Committee  now had to decide whetner the Japanese proposal for  an increase in membership from twenty to twenty-two  (submitted, in accordance with the Rules, three  months before the Conference) couid stand by itself if  the United States amendment to the Constitution  (document 8C/ADM/1, Annex III) were rejected.
(36) Mr. SALIM (Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan)  pointed out that, under Rule 1)4, the proposed changes  haa to be "communicated to Member States at least  three months before the cpering of the session", Had  that been done in the specific case berore the  Committee?
(37) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) zonfirmed tha* Rule
104 had been observed in the cast of the Japanese  amendment,
(38) Mr. HUZAYIN (Egypt) thought that the Japanese  amendment, submitted as it had been according to the  Rules, had independent status, and therefore should  stand even if the Umted States proposal were rejected,
(355 Mr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America)  disagreed, He had no doubt at all (and neither had  his legal advisers) that the Japanese proposal was an  amendment to the United States amendment. In the  Director -General's communication to Member States,  it was clearly stated that the Japanese Government  was submitting an amendment to an amendment. That  had been made clear by the Japanese Government  itself, and confirmed only the day before by the  Japanese delegation. Otherwise, 1t would have to be  considered as an amendment to the Constitution and,  as such, would be out of order, having been submitted  only three months before the Conference.
(40) A striking proof of his assertion was afforded in  paragraph C (b) of the Japanese amendment (document
8C/ADM/1 Add.): "ten members may serve..... in  the new capacity as provided for in the present  amendments to the Constitution pertaining to the  composition of the Executive Board." If the Japanese  amendment was not an amendment to the United States  amendment, what was the meaning of the expression  "new capacity"? Thence, for irrefutable reasons, if  the United States amendment to the Constitution were  rejected, the Japanese amendment would lapse too.
(41) Mr. BAUGNIET (Rapporteur) thought it desirable  that the Committee should know the exact terms of the  letter addressed to the Director-General on 11 August
1954 by the representative of the Japanese Government.
(42) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) read out that letter  and said that its annex was a draft amendment to the  amendments proposed jointly by the United States,  Australia, Brazil and the United Kingdom, Those  amendments, as he had already mentioned, would be  found in document CL/943 Annex 1.
(43) Mr. Saba also drew the Committee's attention to  Rule 86 of the Conference Rules of Procedure, which  dealt with voting ca amendments. According to that  Rule, the Conference should first vote on the Japanese  amendment and then, if that were adopted, on the  American proposal as altered by that amendment.  - 882 -   LEGAL
(44) Mr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) felt  that the Japanese amendment should not be adopted  independently of the American proposal.
(45) As no other delegate wished to cpeak, the  CHAIRMAN asked the Rapporteur to submit to the  Comniitiee a draft resolution on the question,
(46) Mr. BAUGNIET (i.apporteur) then submitted to  the Committee the following text:  “The Legal Committee 1s of opinion that the  amendment submitted to the Director-General by the  Japanese Government on 11 August 1954 constitutes,  as indicated by the title of the document annexed to  the letter in question, a draft amendment to the  amendments to Article V of the Constitution proposed  jointly by the United States of America, Australia,  Brazil and the United Kingdom (CL/943, Annex 1).  It cannot therefore be regarded as a separate and  self-contained amendment to the provisions of  THIRD  COMMITTEE     Vvlo-3  Article V of the Constitution. It couid not, therefore,  be adopted by the General Conference unless the  amendment to which it relates were itself adopted."
(47) After a comment by Mr. MAYER (France), Mr.  BAUGNIER (Rapporteur) said that he was willing to  delete the last sentence of the above text.
(48) Mr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America)  said that his delegatior had no objection to deletion  of the last sentence in the rapporteur's original draft,  provided it were clearly understood and acknowledged  that the last sentence was an obvious consequence cf  the earlier part of the motion,
(49) The Rapporteur's text, without the last sentence,  was put to the vote and adopted by 10 votes to 0, with
3 abstentions,  The meeting rose at 12. 20 p. m.  MEETING
19 November 1954 at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman : Mr. AWAD (Egypt)  CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT AMENDMENTS TO PARAGRAPHS 1,
3, 4, 12 and 13 OF ARTICLE V OF THE CONSTITUTION  CONCERNING THE EXECUTIVE BOARD (document 8C/ADM/1,  Annex III)
(1) The CHAIRMAN announced that the Legal  Committee had been convened to examine draft  amendments to Article V of the Constitution as  adopted by the Administrative Commission that  morning. The original United States amendment,  co-sponsored by Australia, Brazil and the United  Kingdom, had been adopted in an amended form by  the Administrative Commission as follows:  A. Composition  Paragraph 1  As in document 8C/ADM/1, Annex II, page 4,  save for the substitution of "twenty-two" for "twenty"  in the second line (Japanese amendment).  Paragraph 3  The United States delegation had withdrawn its  amendment to paragraph 3 and the original paragraph  in the Constitution had therefore been retained.  ’aragraph 4  As in document 8C/ADM/1, Annex III, page 4.  - 883 -     B. Functions  Paragraph 12  Replaced by paragraph 11 of document 8C/ADM/1,  Annex II, page 3.  C. ‘Transitional provisions  Paragraph 15  Asin document 8C/ADM/1, Annex III, page 4, save  for the substitution of "twenty-two" for "twenty" in  the third line, and the substitution of "eleven for "ten"  in the last line but one.
(2) The Chairman explained that it was the Committees  task to see that there was nothing contradictory or  legally inadmissible in the amendments adopted.
(3) In reply to a question from Mr. MAYER (France),  Mr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) said that  the intention in paragraph 4 was that a government  should nominate only one candidate, in the event of  the death or resignation of a member; however, if  that person were not appointed, he assumed that the  government concerned would be able to nominate  someone else.
(4) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) rather feared  difficulties of interpretation in connexion with the  new Article 12, which, he recalled, read as follows: