15 November 1954 at 4.30 p.m.  President Mr. ZAVALA MUNIZ (Uruguay)  CONTENTS  Discussion of the Director-General's Report (coniinued) :  Speeches by the delegates of Pakistan, Ceylon, Byeiorussia,  Canada, Switzerland, Australia, Indonesia, Egypt, Uruguay  and the representative of the Organization of American  States  DISCUSSION OF THE DIRECTOR-GENE RAL'S RFPORT  (continued>
(1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  [ call on the delegate of Pakistan.
(2) Mr, HUSAIN QURESHI (Pakistan). Mr, Presi-  dent, ladies and gentlemen, my delegation fully shares  ine feelings of gratitid? expressed by other delega-  tions to the Government and people of Uruguay for  having invited Unesco to hold its eighth session of the  General Conference in this beautiful city of Monte-  video. It 1s a source of inspiration to be in the capi-  tal of a country which, during the short period of its  existence, has succeeded in laying the foundations of  a welfare State whose social legislation and liberal  traditions have earned cdmiration, whose education-  al and social programme 1s a remarkable testimony  to the patriotism of its administrators and where the  motto of the Government 1s that in the dvancement  and progress of the entire populatiun ues the great-  ness of the country. In this progress, Mr. Presi-  dent, you have cause for personal pride, since, as  Minister for Education, you are responsible for the  cultural progress of your country. We are, there-  fore, proud to have you as our President this term,  and we are also grateful to you for what your Minis-  try and Government have done to make a success of  this session, I would also like to express my dele-  gation's appreciation of the part played by Professor  Secco Ellauri in having invited the General Confer-  ence to Montevideo,
(3) The progress which has been outlined in the Re-  port of the Director-General and the programme con-  tained in it have the fullest support of my delegation.  It is gratifying to see that the needs of Member States  are being taken into consideration. The Director-  General's tour of various countries has been of great  importance, We welcomed the visit by the Chair-  man of the Executive Board, the Director-General  and Professor Secco Ellauri to my country, where we  had an opportunity of discussing our needs with the  - 82 -     team and explaining to them our problems. It gav= an  opportunity, not only to the members of the Govern-  ment and the officials concerned, tut also to our intel  lectuals to get acquainted with the programme of  Unesco and to have a better understanding of the means  by which we can get the utmost benefit from it. I very  much hope that such tours will be a regular feature of  the activities of this Orgamzation, the more so be-  cause the new programme 1s based upon the idea of  greater service to the member nations.
(4) As was pointed out by the retiring President of the  General Conference, the emergence of the Asiatic na-  tions as free and independent members of a world  community 1s the outstanding result of the last world  war. These nations possess great potential power  for good and evil; it is inthe interests of the world  community that their problems should be properly  understood. They should be helped to direct their exu-  berant energy into constructive channels and to con-  tribute to the welfare of man. In many respects they  have to catch up with the progress made by more ad  vanced countries and unless they are able to do so  they w:ll not be able to make a beneficial contribution  to the progress of humanity, , More than anythingelse  these nations need technical advice and help to utilize  their resources for raising the deplorably low stan-  dard of living of their vast populations and to remove  the terrible burden of 1gnorance and illiteracy. These  nations arc inheritors of great cultures, the traditions  of their civilization often fade into the immemorial  past. Those traditions are still alive and potent;they  have given a wealth of latent wisdom and philosophy to  these peoples. My own country attained a high level  of civilization 5,000 years before Christ, the remains  of which, revealed by the spade of the archaeologists  at Mohenjodaro and elsewhere, astonish the modern  historian and layman alike. Still older sites await  excavation, The fertile valley of the Indus has wit-  nessed mny a flourishing culture, the achievements  of which are woven into the texture of the conscious-  ness of our people. Through another source - Islam-  we are inheritors of a longtraditioncreaied by cultures   PLENARY  which throve in the lands of Iran, Arabia, Asia Minor,  Greece and Rome. The complexity of these sources  has given the culture of my country a depth and a ca-  tholicity of which any people can be proud; and yet,  when I look upon the large number of men and women  who have to be rescued f.om illiteracy, I share the  impatience of my people who yearn to recover their  ancient and glorious tradition. | believe that such  must be the feelings of other Asiatic nations as well,  who are proud of their cultural traditions, and who,  today. find themselves lagging behind younger nations  in educational and scientific progress.
(5) But impatience can be a blessing or a curse. It 1s  a blessing if it inspires the people tc greater effort, it
15 a curse if it leads to frustration. At present the  Asiatic nations are buoyant and hopeful; 1t would be a  tragedy of the first magnitude 1f their hopes were to  be shattered by their lack of material resources in  spite of their great reservoirs of spiritual strength.  This may happen if they do not get help and advice  from the world community. It will be disastrous if  they lose heart and if their buoyancy 1s turned into  frustration; for there 1s no greater ally of the Devil  than the curse of frustration.
(6) I should, however, sound a note of warning. It  would be a mistake to think that the vas. millions liv-  ing in Asia are a single mass of people; their cultures,  their outlooks on life , the stages of their development  all vary and, therefore, their needs and requirements  differ widely. An assembly cf intellectuals  like this needs no reminding that the population  of single countries in Asia sometimes outaumbers the  entire population of other continents. Asiatic nations  should be treated singly. It would be a fallacy lo  think in terms of regionalism where such masses of  people with such vast differences are concentrated.  The central source of the idealism of Unesco is umi-  versality, and any decentralization of its organization  on a regional basis will injure the very purpose of its  existence. It is the firm conviction of my Govern-  ment, fully shared by my people, that there should be  no concentration of Unesco agencies away from head-  quarters, even though they may be merely the instru-  ments for the dissemination of information, in any  single country. Unesco deals with various disciplines  an agency which disseminates information regardinga  particular discipline could be located in a single coun  try and thus various agencies of information could be  equitably distributed over an entire region. This will  keep many countries actively interested in the activi-  ties of the Organization and the benefits from its var-
10us programmes will be distributed more widely.
(7) My “elegation attaches the greatest importance to  projecting te salient features of different cultures to  the entire world. 1am aware of the work that has al  ready been dune in this connexion, but may I submit  that this aspect of the programme needs strengthen-  ing? A great deal of misunderstanding, fear and hos-  tility have arisen in the course of history from preju-  dice and ignorance. Today, when closer communica  tions have made the world so small, it 1s necessary  for the creation of world-mindedness that we should  understand the cultures we have hitherto treated not  only as foreign to our 1deas but also son.etimes with  nostility. Many an erroneous idea propagated by in-  terested parties has tended to divide the world and to  create division and hatred, where nothing but amity        MEETINGS 11-6  and co-operation should have existed. I will take one  example: the issues raised by the Crusades and the  conflicts between Muslim and Christian powers are no  longer live issues, In the world of today, there 1s no  strife between Christians and Muslims as such but the  misunderstandings continue to be as strong and potent  as ever. If the peace of the world depends upon the  mental attitude of peoples, 1s it not necessary that  Unesco should try, without, of course, going intoques-  tions of religious dognia and beliefs, to bring about a  better cultural understanding between the followers of  all faiths? Such an endeavour will do more than mere-  ly create a friendly atmosphere, though that in itself  would be no mean achievement. Cultures were crea-  ted by the efforts of many a great mind, whose contri-  butions should not be lost to the rest of the world, es-  pecially when science has brought humanity into such  close proximity. More effort should be directed to-  wards the translation of the classics of various coun-  tries and the interpretation of their cultural achieve-  ments, so that the entire world may be the beneficiary.
(8) Underdeveloped countries are finding it more and  more difficult to meet the ever-growing demand for  education, Countries like Pakistan which have fast-  developing economies can look forward to a future  when these demands vil be fully met, but, during the  period of transition, the shortage of material resour-  ces tends to hamper the expansion of educational facil  ties even to the barest minimum requirements, It  wouid be a fruitful source of investigat'on to find out if  the expenditure on education in economically poorer  countries can be reduced without materially affecting  its efficiency. This is a problem of the first impor-  tance to most ot the Asiatic an“ African countries, and  I suggest that 1t engage the attention of the experts of  the world under Unesco's auspices.
(9) My country has taken the fullest advantage of such  facilities as have been extended to us. With the help  of Unesco we established a training and research cen-  tre for geophysics at Quetta. This centre, lam glad  to report, has made such satisfactory progress that  today we are able to receive trainees from other courr  tries and give them excellent training. In the realm  of fundamental education we have started to implement  some of the recommendations made by a team of ex-  perts sent us by Unesco, Our Village Aid Programme
1s a major experiment in fundamental education and 1t  has now been extended to the greater part of our coun  try. In addition to personnel trained in Pakistan, a  team of ten teachers 1s now in training at the Unesco  Centre for Fundamental Education in Mexico, When it  returns, more trainees will be sent, These persons  will work at our own training centres. Another team  has done excellent work in the suburbs of Karachi and
1s now extending its activities to the city itself. We  have a large population of uprooted refugees whose  physical rehabilitation 1s to be followed by educational  and social resuscitation. The extension of this pro-  gramme to the refugees, who form a substantial pro-  portion of the population, will be a great help in the  arduous task of rehabilitation.
(10) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call on the delegate of Ceylon.
(11) Mr. MENDIS (Ceylon): Mr. President, ladies  and gentlemen, I should like to preface my remarks by  - 83 -   I1-6 PLENARY  associating my delegation with the numerous tributes  that have been paid to the Government of Uruguay for  the arrangements made for our reception and for the  hospitality that has been shown to us. The impres-  sive ceremony at the opening of the General Confer-  ence and the warm welcome we received from the citi-  zens of this town, 1n particular from the thousands of  schoolchildren who were assembled on this occasion,  have touched our hearts. Wherever we have been -  in the streets, in shops and restaurants - we have  met with the same cordiality.
(12) I should hike, first of all, to congratulate the  Director-General, both on the form and the content of  his report, It has been extremely helpful to my Mi-  nistry - the Ministry of Education - in the study of  the Proposed Programme and Budget for 1955-56  and in the briefing of the delegation from Ceylon.
(13) Any assessment of the work of Unesco, should,  in my opinion, be viewed from two aspects. In the  first place, it 1s very necessary, particularly at a  time when the work of Unesco is expanding, when  more and more new projects are being included inthe  programme, to see how far the aims and ideals of  Unesco and its purposes and functions as laid downin  the Preamble and in Article 1 of its Constitution are  reflected in the actual execution of its programme, It
1s possible that after such an examination we may  find that a complete reorientation of the programme,  perhaps a greater emphasis on certain aspects oi  work and less emphasis On other aspects, will be  necessary.
(14) In the second place, the work that has been  achieved, as indicated in the Director -General's Re-  port, can represent only a part of the activities of  Unesco. The work done by the governments of Mem-  ber States and the National Commissions 1s of equal  importance, and, as the Chairman of the Executive  Board rightly pointed out, there cannot be a true eva-  luation of the work of Unesco without considering the  work done by and through the Member States. I pro-  pose therefore in my brief remarks to deal with the  report from these two aspects, with special refer-  ence to my own country, Owing to limitations of  time, | can only touch on some of the more important  projects that a.e of special concern to Ceylon.
(15) The programme of education for living ina world  community, with its emphasis on the promotion of  teaching about the United Nations and human rights,  and the improvement of curricula, textbooks andme-  thods with a view to the development of international  understanding, 1s undoubtedly of very great impor-  tance. Extremely useful documents have been pub-  lished embodying the results of careful study by spe-  cialists or the findings of seminars. This work as  certainly in full accord with the oft-auoted words in  the Preamble of the Constitution that: "since wars be  gin in the minds of men, it 1s in the minds of men  that the defences of peace must be constructed’, and  that consequently there should be "free exchange of  ideas and knowledge", that we should "increase the  means of communication’ between the peoples of the  world and "employ these means for the purposes of  mutual understanding”.
(16) If the influence of Unesco 1s to permeate the  masses, the mere publication of texts in the three of-  ficial languages of Unesco will not help us to achieve  our aims and ideais - certainly so far as the peoples    MEETINGS  of Asia are concerned. This, I think, 1s a matter  that has not been fully appreciated, Take my own  country. Only some 20% of the pupils in schools have,  in the past, received what one might call an English  education, and in recent years the national languages,
1.e. Sinhalese and Tamil, have been the media of in-  struction in all schools. From next year, all pupils  up to and inclusive of the ninth year of schooling will  receive their education through the medium of the na-  tional languages, with English as a compulsory second  language from the fourth year. At the present time,
71% of the pupils of school age, viz. from five to four-  teen, are at school. Our total enrolment 1s nearly  one-and-a-half millions, But, and the fact 1s often  forgotten, the vast majority of the pupils receive their  education entirely through the medium of the naticnal  languages. I do not wish to be misunderstood. ! am  not for one moment suggesting that Unesco should pub-  lish its documents in the national languages of Ceylon.  The reason why I referred to the need for the publica-  tion of at least a few of the documents of Unesco inthe  national languages 1s because there 1s already a pro-  ject whereby the Director-General 15 authorized to ar-  range for the translation and adaptation into languages  other than the official languages of Unesco, of reports  and documents which the National Commission wishes  to be published. The reference is on page 29, para-  graph 4 of Chapter I - "Relations with Member States”.  The Report goes on to say: "The credits allotted to  this resolution have not made it possible to meet all  these requests which have reached the Sccretariat’,
(17) That 1s rather disappointing. Ceylon itself has  been extremely modest in its requirements, The re-  ference to our request will be found on page 57 of the  Reports of Member States. We asked for the trans-  lation of two documents which we thought would be very  useful to teachers of national language schools because  of the important decision taken by Ceylon to include  teaching about the United Nations in the curriculum of  all our schools. I would therefore, on this occasion,  strongly urge that more funds be provided for this  proi‘ct, and as early as possible.
(18) In the Reports of Member States, page 56, there
1s a reference to what we are attempting to do our-  selves in the matter of teaching about the United Na-  tions and the observance of Human Rights Week in all  our schools,
(19) As you are aware, Ceylon 1s not yet a member of  the United Nations, We have been kept out of this Or-  ganization for reasons we do not quite understand, but  let me assure you that we are in full accord with the  aims and ideals of the United Nations and, throughour  association with Unesco and other Specialized Agen-  cies, we are, [| submit, in all humility striving to do  what we can to foster international understanding and  friendship, and we feel that it is In our schools that  education for living in a world community should be-  gin, L should like at this point to supplement wnat ap-  pears in the Reports of Member States, There has  been a further development of International Relations  Clubs in Ceylon. Wwe have started such clubs as an  experiment in nine of our more important schools of  collegiate status, mainly for the benefi: of students in  University Entrance Classes.
(20) ! referred a little while ago to the fact that Cey-  lon has recently made English a compulsory second  language in all our schools. We were therefore  - 84 -   PLENARY  naturally interested in the Seminar on the Teaching of  Modern Languages and we are grateful that Unesco  held this Seminar in Ceylon, An account of 1t appears  on page 80 of the Director-General's Report, I should  like tc congratulate the Education Department of  Unesc: on the excellent planning of this Seminar and  the val 1able working papers that were prepared. I  should also like to pay a tribute to Professor Anders-  son of Yale University, who was the Director of the  Seminar, and to Mr. Felix Walter of the Unesco Se-  cretariat. This Seminar pin-pointed specific lan-  guage problems of the Asian Member States and the  need for follow-up work. We therefore welcome the  provision made in the programme for 1955-56 for the  establishmen. of an information and research centre  in Asia, I submit that it 15 in the interests of Unesco  itself to encourage development in the teaching of a  modern language such as English or French in Asian  countries; 1t means that in years to come there will  be far less need for translation of documents into lan-  guages other than the official languages of Unesco,
(21) Another important Unesco seminar to which I  should like to refer was the one on the teaching of  social sciences held in New Delhi early this year, A  reference to this seminar will be found in the Supple-  mentary Report of the Director-General, Its find-  ings will be of great value to Ceylon at a time when we  are engaged in the revision of our curricula and syl-  labuses. A Committee has been recently appointed  by the Minister of Education to investigate the cur-  ricula of schools both at primary and secondary level  We are aiso glad to find that provision has been made  in the draft programme and budget for the establish-  ment of an International Advisory Committee on  school curricula. The findings of our National Com-  mittee, which 1s expected to complete its task in the  course of next year, would, we trust, be of some  value to the International Advisory Committee.
(22) I should like to invite the attention of the Con-  ference to the cultural activities referred to in the  Ceylon Report on pages 56 and 57 of the Reports of  Member States, Two noteworthy activities under-  taken by the National Commission are: the annual and
1sland-wide competition in folk songs and dances for  schools and the International Exhibition of Child Art,  at which we had exhibits from seven countries. We  have also sent a number of exhibits of child art to  other Member States such as Australia, Italy, Japan  and the United States of America. We would greatly  welceme exhibits of child art from other countries so  that an International Section might form a regular  feature of the Annual Exh:bitions of Child Art in  Ceylon.
(23) My comments on the Director-General's Report  will not be complete without a reference to the funda-  mentai education project at Minneriya, which will be  taken over by the Government of Ceylon in the course  of next year. I should like to record our apprecia-  tion of the good work done by Dr. Hatch and his team  of experts, There is not the least doubt that this  centre will play a very important part in the ruralde-  velopment of Ceylon. The adult education centres  will serve as models to the numerous centres of a  similar nature that have been started by the  Education Department, and also to the  Community Centres organized by the Local  Government Department.    MEETINGS 11-6
(24) There 1s a reference in the Report to the delay in  the appointment of Sinhalese officers to the centre.  This delay 1s no doubt unfortunate, but unavoidable, It  was found necessary that, for a project which would  ultimately concern several Ministries and Govern-  ment Departments, the machinery for ensuring close  liaison and co-ordination between the centre as such  and the various Departments of Education, Health, Ag  riculture and so on should first be established, and  this matter had naturally to be considered at Cabinet  level. A co-ordinating committee consisting of Per-  manent Secretaries has been formed, and 1s now func-  tioning. The actual project will be under the general  control of the Director of Rural Development, The ne-  cessary staff has been appointed with the exception of  the officer in charge of the project, who will rank as  an Assistant Director in the Department of Rural De-  velopment. It 15 expected that this appointment too  will be made before the year 1s out. Furthermore,  my Government 1s anxious that the correct type of of-  ficer shall be appointed, and this factor too has  contributed to the delay.
(25) Now that Unesco's participation in the project 1s  coming to a close, I should like to make two comments,  not in a spirit of criticism but rather as observations  which should be valuable to the Technical Assistance  Department of Unesco when similar projects are start-  ed in other countries. It 1s essential that, when ex-  perts or specialists are sent on projects of this na-  ture, they shall know the language of the people with  whom they have to work. The method of working with  the aid of interpreters, in undeveloped rural areas, 1s  not always very satisfactory, particularly when one  has first to win the confidence of the people with whom  one has to work. This lesson has, 1 think, been  brought out very clearly in the experiment in Ceylon,  The only officer who was able to secure quick results  was the one who succeeded in acquiring a good know-  ledge of Sinhalese within eleven months of his arrival  in Ceylon, a highly creditable achievement, It may be  that, in future projects, the field work will have to be  done through nationals of the country whohave first  received a course of training.
(26) The second point I wish to stress is that experts  and specialists must make useful contacts with of-  ficers in the national governments, particularly with  those who are engaged in similar work, Such con-  tacts and exchanges of views between experts and spe-  cialists can be of benefit to both parties and would  certainly secure a larger measure of co-operation and  assistance in the work of the project itself.
(27) I have attempted, within the short time at my dis-  posal, to deal with some of the main features in the  Report. There are many problems, particularly in  regard to the development of the work of our National  Commission, which need closer investigation, and  therefore, in conclusion, I should like to express the  hope that the Director-General may find it possible to  pay a visit to Ceylon in the very near future.
(28) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish}:  I call on the delegate of the Byelorussian Soviet Social-  ist Republic.
(295) Mr, UMREIKO (Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Re  public) (Translation from the Russian): Mr, President,  gentlemen, allow me first of all, on behalf of my  - 85 -
11-6 PLENARY  country's delegation, to thank the Government of Uru-  guay for its hospitality, and for affording us all the  opportunity of assembling in this beautiful city to dis-  cuss and settle problems connected with the develop-  ment of international co-operation in the realm of  education, science and culture,
(30) The aim of the Byelorussian Soviet Sociahst Re-  public in joining Unesco was to contribute in every  possible way to the fulfilment of the noble aims of  this Organization, as proclaimed in Article I,1 of the  Constitution.
(31) We believe that Unesco's work in strengthening  international co-operation in the realm of education,  science and culture will be more effective if all  States, regardless of their social structure, adhere  to lofty principles and strive for the adoption of con-  certed decisions designed to consolidate peace, de-  velop international relations, s‘rengthen friendship  and mutual understanding and carry out practical  measures for improving the situation in the three  fields.
(32) The delegation of the Byelorussian Soviet Social-  ist Republic believes that all Unesco's practical ac-  tivities should contribute towards the solution of pro-  blems affecting the vital interests of all States - such  as questions of international security, of improving  economic conditions, of developing culture and edu-  cation. This am can be achieved if the basic ma-  terial resources of all States are devoted not to the  production of armaments and the forging of military  blocs, but to education, science and culture. Unesco's  activities in this field will help to relax international  tension and strengthen peace and friendship between  the peoples and will create in all States favourable  conditions for carrying out an extensive programme  of educational, scientific and cuitural development,  Of course, these vital tasks can only be successfully  achieved provided all countries intensify their co-  operation with Unesco, In this connexion it is es-  sential to the success of Unesco's work that the Peo-  ple's Republic of China, that great peace-loving  power with a rich, centuries-old culture, should par-  ticipate 1n that work.
(33) It must be pointed out also that the adoption of  such unjust decisions as the decision to postpone com  sideration of the question of admitting Rumanta and  Bulgaria to membership of Unesco is prejudicial to  the Orgamzation's prestige.
(34) The Director-General, in his Report, has right-  ly stressed the importance of Unesco's relations with  other international organizations, and of associating  them with Unesco's work. Nevertheless, we should  like to draw attention to tne fact that Unesco should  not disregard but should associate in its work and ex-  tend and strengthen her ties with certain truly demo-  cratic international orgamzations which are working  for the defence of peace and for educational progress.
(35) As regards the practical aspect of Unesco's  work, the delegation of the Byelorussian Soviet Social-  ist Republic considers that Unesco should pay atten-  tion to the question of giving assistance to economi-  cally underdeveloped countries, which are experien-  cing great difficulties, In extending such assistance,  it is essential to adhere strictly to the principle that  economic aid to underdeveloped countries should ne-  ver be made dependent ona demand for privileges for the  countries and organizations granting such assistance.  - 86 -     MEETINGS
(36) Unesco must, in expending its budget funds,  strive to reduce administrative expenditure to the mi-  nimum and so increase the sums available for direct  expenditure on progress in the fields of education,  science and culture,
(37) The delegation of the Byelorussian Soviet Social-  ist Republic considers that attention should also be  drawn to the need for more purposeful and concentra-  ted utilization of funds for the direct fulfilment of first  priority needs, such as the elimination cf illiteracy by  organizing teaching in the vernacular, the develop-  ment of national cultures, and the exchange of ex-  perience, steps being taken to spread a knowledge of  the favourable results achieved in those countries  which have already made marked progress in this  domain,
(38) I would like to dwell for a moment on the pro-  gress achieved by the people of my Republic in the  matter of education and culture. A comparatively  short time ago, some forty years or so, our country  was culturally backward; education was the preroga-  tive of the wealthy, 80% of the population were illiter-  ate, and there was not a single higher educational in-  stitution throughout the whole of Byelorussia. Today  Byelorussia has changed, culturally speaking, out of  all recognition. To give an 1dea of the extent of our  country's cultural progress, it is enough to mention  that there are operating in Byelorussia, in the 1954-
55 educational year, 11,600 ordinary schools, inclu-  ding 1,350 secondary schools, and that the total num-  ber of pupils attending these schools alone 1s over
1,300,000, whereas, before the October Revolution of
1917, there were only 250,000 pupils aliending all the  schools in the Republic. We have had to expend a  considerable amount of money and effort on rebuild-  ing our network of schools and educational establish-  ments, a large proportion of which were destroyed by  the Hitlerite invaders during the second world war.
(39) We are at present carrying through a program-  me of transition from universal seven-year primary  schooling to universal secondary schooling in regional  centres and large industrial towns; and we are laying  the foundations for completing the transition during  the next five-year plan to universal secondary school-  ing in all districts as well. In the Republic as a  whole, 85% of young people, after completing the  seven-year school course, go on to study at ordinary  secondary and technical secondary schools. For the  benefit of young people who were prevented by the war  from completing a seven-year or secondary school  course, 1,266 evening seven-year and secondary  schools have been set up.
(40) The Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic has a  broad network of scientific research establishments.  The centre of activity is the Byelorussian Academy  of Science. There are at present in operation in the  Republic 27 higher educational establishments, inclu-  ding the University, 9 scientific research institutes,  and a whole series of experimental and selection sta-  ttons and other research establishments.
(41) Byelorussian scientists are concentrating on stu-  dying and exploiting the country's natural resources  and expanding productivity with a view to continuing to  improve the economic situation of the Byelrussian So-  viet Socialist Republic and satisfying more fully the  ever-growing material and cultural needs of our peo-  ple, Byelorussian scientists have also achieved   PLENARY  sigmficant progress in the social sciences. 1854, for  example, saw the publication of the standard work  "The History of the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Re-  public", the outcome of years of painstaking prepara-  tion on the part of Byelorussian historians.
(42) There have also been great successes 1n Byelo-  russian literature. The works of Byelorussian wri-  ters and poets such as Yanka Kupala, Yakub Kolas,  Krapiva, Kuleshov, etc. have received wide recogni-  tion not only in Byelorussia and the other Republics of  the Soviet Union but in foreign countries as well, At  the same time, & whole series of outstanding works  by writers both of the other Republics of the Soviet  Union and of foreign countries have been translated  into the Byelorussian language. The work of Cervarr  tes, Molière, Schiller, Shakespeare, Byron, Mark  Twain, Maupassant etc. are being studied in the  schools, Our literary scholars have carried out re-  : varch into the history of Byelorussian literature.  The publishing of books is developing successfully. In
1953 alone the Byelorussian State Publishing House  published 639 different books totalling 17 million co-  pies in all, or more than 80 times the number of  books published in 1913,
(43) The culture of the Byelorussian people is rich  and diverse. Opera and ballet with a repertory in-  cluding Russian and world classics as well as Byelo-  russian operas and ballets, enjoy great popularity in  the Republic. There are also a large number of  playhouses, a State philharmonic society, a music-  hall, several choirs and dance troupes and a wide net-  work of amateur entertainment companies. For the  training of professionals there is a college of drama-  tic art, a musical academy, and a number of other  colleges and schools, The Republic is working acti-  vely on expanding the network of public libraries,mu-  seums and clubs. We nowhave 7,552 public libraries,  containing a total of over 12 million volumes and about
(44) The entire cultural-educational system in our  Republic, as well as all the teaching and scientific es~  tablishments, propagate peace and friendship between  peoples. These ideas correspond to the vital inter-  ests of our people, who bore the brunt of the recent  war and made an important contribution to the des-  truction of the Hitlerite invaders.
(45) The year 1954 has been marked by the extension  of international cultural ties. There is no doubt that  the extension of cultural ties between the peoples cor  tributes to mutual understanding and the strengthen-  ing of peaceful neighbourly relations between the na-  tions of the world.
(46) We hope that our joint efforts at this Conference  will lead to the consolidation and development of cul-  tural ties and will constitute an important contribu-  tion to the struggle of the peoples to reduce interna-  tional tension and consolidate peace throughout the  world.
(47) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish:  [ call on the delegate of Canaca.
(48) Mr. PIERCE (Canada) (Translation from the  French): Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, no  better site could have been chosen for our Confer-  ence than the splendid city of Montevideo. The Cana-  dian Government, which I have the honour torepresent,    MEETINGS 11-6  wishes to express its heartiest thanks to the Govern-  ment of Uruguay for its kind hospitality, We are all  keenly appreciative of the innumerable kindnesses and  delicate attentions shown us. In this great city of  Montevideo, we have everything we need - a warm -  hearted and generous people who are living exemplars  of a magnificent spirit of co-operation, sunshine and  a healthy climate which are a helpful stimulus to our  deliberations, Nor 1s inspiration lacking, and thats  an essential element for our task of directing the  powerful forces of education, science and culture to-  wards true international understanding.
(49) Mr. President, I have opened my address in  French in recognition of the fact that Canada's twoof-  ficial languages and twocultures - French and English -  are part of the essence of our country and our national  heritage. Allow me now to continue my remarks in  English.
(50) During the two years since the last Unesco Gen-  eral Conference the international climate has improv-  ed considerably, Some of the storms have subsided  and the clouds on the horizon are not quite so dark or  foreboding. There has been a lessening of the sus-  picions that contribute to world tension, We have re-  moved or surmounted a few of the barriers to the dis-  semination of culture and knowledge conducive to  better understanding and mutual respect.
(51) It is a better climate than we have known for  years for the fruitful pursuit of our principles. New  members and associate members have swollen our  ranks and, if all of us, old and new, discharge the  duty laid upon us by the Constitution in the spirit re-  quired of us by the Constitution, we shall be stronger  in achievement as well as in numbers.
(52) This Conference has another special feature: we  are holding it when Unesco 1s eight years old. Eight  years is a sufficiently long period in the history of an  international organization in which to build up a mea  sure of experience which can serve as some guide to  the future. From here, from a review of our pastac-  tivities, we can envisage the form if not the features  of our future. We can now say with better justifica-  tion than ever before that it is promising; and we have  it in our hands, to an extent never betore possible, to  shape our destiny. This 1s perhaps the first Unesco  Conference at which we can call upon the facts of our  past to give substance to the visions of our future.
(53) 1t is well that the climate is better and that we  have experience to draw on and new additions to our  strength, because in the next few weeks we shall have  to decide upon the fundamental structure of Unesco,  We approach our task with the help of the Director,  members of the Executive Board and of the Secretar-  iat, who have recognized and analysed our most ser-  ious problems and have laid down the lines for their  solution,
(54) They will excuse me, I hope, if I say that we  were disappointed in a matter of presentation, The  inclusion of many urgent and important activities - no-  tably technical aid to the underdeveloped countries -  in the "higher budgetary level" created an unfortunate  impression that, unless the budget were increased,  the programme could not be remodelled and we could not  concentrate on tasks of major importance, Happily, we  have been assured that such an impression is inaccurate,
(55) After that aside, 1 emphasize that our delegation  thinks the work of the Director-General, the Board and  - 87 -
11-6 PLENARY  the Secretariat was, on the whole, soundly based and  ably executed. We appreciate in particular their help  in indicating solutions to our problems that will allow  us not only to achieve our aims but which hold pro-  mise of new usefulness for Unesco in the service of  mankind.
(56) The most critical of these problems 1s, we be-  lieve, the remodelling of the programme, We hope  that from the report before us wil' emerge a resolu-  tion which will incorporate the main proposals of the  report and, better, that it will restate them in even  stronger and more positive terms.
(57) We consider it essential that the programme be  remodelled in such a way as to ensure that we devote  our resources intensively to the most pressing inter-  national problems and to the most urgent needs ofun-  derdeveloped countries. That will require us to ans-  wer not only the question: What problems are the  most pressing and what needs the most urgent? but  also this: What projects can we abandon if there is not  room enough for all of them?
(58) And when we succeed, as | am sure we shall, in  charting our course, 1t would be wise for us to lay  down at least some general lines of guidance to those  who will have to hold Unesco to its new course. We  must hope that the guidance would urge the inclusion,  whenever possible, of time-tables for stages of exe-  cution; the adoption of procedures for appraising  projects, for their selection, and for their evaluation  In appraisal and evaluation, we think it would be of  great value to strive for an objective viewpoint, to  strive to bring to bear a judgment not necessarily in  dependent of the Organ:zation but independent of  sponsor and executor,
(59) We would hope, too, that we could provide the  Director-General and the Secretariat between confer-  ences with the best available financial guidance and  advice on programme activities, Such help could  best come, we believe, from representatives whoare  not only competent in their own fields but who are  responsible to their governments.
(60) Somewhere along this road we may, if we follow  it, come to a point where we need no longer plead for  the support and confidence of governments and peo-  ples. We shall have earned them. [I am optimistic  enough to expect, ton, that a time may come when we  need not plead for bigger budgets - at least not as per-  sistently and as plaintively. I think we can hasten  that day 1f we rely less on promises or forecasts of  what we could do 1f we had more money, and if we re-  ly more on the record of what we have done with the  resources and responsibilities entrusted to us,
(61) The expansion of Unesco can and should be the  consequence of effective achievement. We had this  heartening experirnce in Canada: we found that,if an  international organization demonstrates that it can do  etfective work, the public demands that 1t receive the  support it needs, Last year, Canada nearly doubled  her contribution to the United Nations Expanded Pro-  gramme of Technical Assistance; and it did so.in  direct response to public sympathy and public sup-  port. Unesco, too, will advance best and fastest not  on prophecy but on performance.
(62) We have one month in which to determine the  course Unesco 1s to follow during the next two years.  Our delegation feels that we at this Conference have  an opportunity, if we make good use of the experience    MEETINGS  of the past eight years and of the help offered us by  those devoted to the Organization and dedicated to the  cause, to strengthen Unesco beyond effective challenge  and enable it to contribute fully to the welfare of man
(63) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):
1 call on the delegate of Switzerland.
(64) Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland) (Translation from  the French): Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, on  behalf of the Swiss delegation I have some remarks to  make about the Director-General's Report and his pro-  gramme for 1955-56. May I say first of all that the  presentation of these documents strikes me as well con-  ceived, The general introduction and the individual  introductions to the chapters devoted to each depart-  ment provide us this year with a general perspective  which was sometimes lackin ? in earlier reports; and  the budget estimates are clear and well arranged.
(65) The main improvement, however, is a satisfac-  tory staggering of all work. This is the first time,  since we adopted the two-year work period, that ithas  been possible really to design and present the pro-  gramme on that basis, The present document is not  simply two annual programmes strung together: while  retaining the valuable heritage of the past, it opens up  new short- and long-term prospects.
(66) Last, but not least, on the initiative of the Exe-  cutive Board, the Director-General is putting before  the Conference, concurrently with his Report and pro-  gramme, the principles which he suggests should be  followed in the planning of future programmes: I refer  to documeut PRG/13, which introduces a logical and  constructive distinction be:ween general and continu-  ing activities on the one hand and special activities on  the other. If I may be permitted a metaphor borrow-  ed from motoring, while so far we have been driving  with sidelights we are now switching on powerful fog-  piercing headlights, lighting up the road well beyond  the stretch immediately ahead, right up to the distant  bends of the hill we have to climb,
(67) These well-assorted documents are a happy and  significant indication of the close co-operation between  the Director-General and the Executive Board under  the "sound constitution” the latter has so far enjoyed  and, we hope, will continue to enjoy in future.
(68) The Swiss delegation considers that the true so-  lution lies, not in compromise, but in balance: the  greal permanent general services started by Unesco -  from which we are gathering or are about to gather the  first harvest - must be maintained as our Constitution  requires. But at the same time we must continue to  be ready, alertly and realistically, to apply our Or-  ganization's efforts at the new points and unforeseen  stages where they may be needed,
(69) To put it another way, simultaneously with serv-  ing the values of a civilization which is our glory, the  programme must leave room for remedying evils  which are the all too grave and frequent "accidents,  the scourge and, on occasion, the shame of our age.
(70) The so-called "developed" countries must con-  sider what they, too, need in the way of education and  the wider spreading of knowledge, in spite or because  of the qualities we readily concede them, in spite or  because of their privileges or their luck. And Imean  education in its most advanced andmodern forms, for  instance, education for living in a world community;  - 88 -   PLENARY  it must begin in the schools, be carried on inthe uni-  versities and flourish for and with the help of the  whole adult population.
(71) Without anticipating the discussions of the Pro-  gramme Commission, the Swiss delegation thinks  that they will be less restricted and more fruitful if  what 1s called the higher budgetary level 1s accepted  as the ideal target from the beginning.
(72) Among the reasons why the programme we are  considering must commend itself to us are certainnew  projects of which the importance and immediacy have  been recognized in good time. I will give only one  example, leaving it to my delegation to deal with  other problems at the appropriate juncture, The ex-  ample | have in mind is this: the Director-General,  on the initiative of the Executive Board, is proposing  to seek the best means of co-ordinating and promot-  ing the research being undertaken by scientists  throughout the world in order to combat the scourge  of cancer. Some projects launched by Unesco - for  instance the European Centre for Nuclear Research -  have been realized in a remarkably short time. But  these projects were limited in scope. Here,however,  is a project - dealing with cancer - of concern to the  whole world, to every people, to leaders and masses  alike, (o developed and underdeveloped countries,what-  ever the hemisphere in which they he and whatever  the ideology they profess; and this project would not  have the fullest chances of success on any narrower  basis than that which our Organization provides.
(73) May ! also draw your attention to the wise way In  which this project is presented: if we agree that  scientific research in general 1s within Unesco's terms  of reference, and that the practical application of such  research 1s the province of other Specialized Agencies,  we see and applaud in this Unesco project the deter-  mination to co-operate, from the earliest stage ofthe  résearch, with the World Health Organization. All  countries rightly concerned for the development of clo-  ser co-operaticn between world organizations of ex-  perts will rejoice with us and - my delegationhopes -  will support an enterprise of such great humanitarian  significance, which will show the peoples of the world  that the will to co-operate is not an empty phrase.
(74) This programme must also commend itselfto us  inasmuch as it proves that the Director-General has  borne in mind certain lessons of the past. Here  again [ will confine myself to stressing one point,  among many, by way of example. The hrector-  General has grasped that "mass communications a  complex concept and that it should be made up of two  related but distinct parts.
(75) It means, firstly, developing all the media avail-  able to men, States, institutions and associations for  the exchange of information and news among them-  selves, That 1s mass communication as a program-  me auxiliary.
(76) Secondly, on pain of having its noblestinten-  tions and finest endeavours overlooked, misjudged  and stultified - as happens all too often - our  Organization, backed by governments and  National Commissions, must make its aims,  methods, plans and hopes - and of  course the successes it has already achieved - bet-  ter known throughout the world. That 1s mass com-  munication in the other sense; the sense  of intelligent propaganda.    MEETINGS 11-6
(77) My delegation 1s glad to acknowledge the consid-  erable services rendered by the Secretariat, which,if  I may be pardoned another motoring metaphor, is al-  ways getting better run in. Among other things, we  are pleased with a recent promotion giving formal re-  cognition to the work of a high official of Unesco as an  authority on the co-ordination of programme activities,  This step will undoubtedly help the Director-General  to carry out his policy of making personal contacts,  which are as necessary in the Secretariat at the Paris  headquarters as in the Member States to which he has  paid and will continue to pay his much appreciated  visits,
(78) In conclusion, the Swiss delegation would ask the  Director-General and the Secretar.at to find the best  way of informing Member States more systematically  about the implementation of certain measures, Cases  in point are the great international conventions, such  as that on the free flow of cultural materials, now  signed and ratified by a number of governments and  parliaments, If there are any shortcomings in the  implementation of these agreements, 1f there is any de-  lay, let us be told: let us be given the reasons and  shown how the situation can be remedied. | wonder  if there are many Member States whose consciences  are absolutely clear in this respect, who have nothing  with which to reproach their governments. Which of  us would dare to make that claim? Let the Director  General have no fear of telling us what he knows and  what he feels, We are not asking him to accuse any-  one, but simply to give us advice which we feel sure  will be constructive and tactful.
(79) Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Ihave giv-  en you a few of the considerations and 1deas to which  the Swiss delegation attaches importance, Before leaw  Ing this rostrum I should like to pay tribute, first and  foremost to the Government and people of Uruguay  whose welcome has been a happy augury. A mass de-  monstration such as we saw last Friday, at once plan-  ned and spontaneous, the masterly expression of a  lofty culture, enabled us to sense the heartbeat of a  people, a people with faith in Unesco. We shall never  forget it. Next, I should like to pay tribute to the  nobly inspired utterance of Dr. Sarvepalli Radhakrish-  nan in his presidential address and of the charges he  laid upon us. We of the Swiss delegation fird in his  words a source of strength and confidence in our pre-  sent and future labours, Those labours will be the  more fruitful in that we have here an unmatched op-  portinity to tackle them together, as part of an en-  larged team and in a world spirit which must remain  free from any tincture of politics.
(80) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):
1 call on the delegate of Australia.
(81) Mr. PRATT (Australia): Mr. President, ladies  and gentlemen, I should like, on behalf of the Aus?ral-
1anGovernment, and of my colleagues who represent  that Government at this Conference, to express to the  Director-General and his colleagues our appreciation  of his Report on the activities of the Organization, The  Report 1s a comprehensive one, and reflects the very  wide range of activities stimulated and brought about  by the existence of Uresco. The Director-General  touches alsoona number of problems vital to the future of  Unesco,as well as on potential fields for future action.  - 89 -   I-6 PLENARY
(82) Our view is that Unesco will make a significant  contribution to the promotion of peace and internation-  al co-operation by doing a limited number of really  important things and doing them well. It 1s generally  agreed tuat the programme of the United Nations and  the individual programmes of the Specialized Agencies  should be stabilized. By this my delegation under-  stands that it 1s not reasonable to expect the Director-  General and his staff tu cope with more than a given  volume of work in a year or in two years. This is  not merely a matter of money, It is a matter,also,  of other resources, of planning, of organization and of  the availability of men and women, I do notthink this  point of view 1s inconsistent with the notion of decen-  tralization which the Director-General referred to  very briefly on Saturday afternoon last.
(83) So our programme should be limited, We should  try to do the most important things, and to do them  well. To our tests of importance must be added tests  of practicability and of appropriateness. Let us pro-  fit from experience in applying these tests, After  more than eight years of operation we have found that  some things, though undoubtedly important, are not at  present practicable for an Organization such as ours.  Some years ago a session of the General Conference  adopted a programme including a project of very great  importance - the development of the Hylean Amazon,  Little progress was made. The project, in the form  adopted, was important, but it was not practicable, It  may not have been appropriate, With this experience  behind us our approach to another important problem -  that of the arid zones - has been different. But we  must aiwoys watch, with a project such as the arid  zone one, that (‘= development by Unesco is approp-  riate to Unesco's interest; that, for example, we do  not attempt developments which are really matters  for the World Health Organization or for the Food and  Agriculture Organization,
(84) Importance, practicabihty and appropriateness.  Each one of these limits the range oi accepiable p77  jects, Let us consider practicability. To be suc-  cessfully developed a project must, in our opinion,  not only have the support of the General Conference  and the hard work of the Director-General and his  staff, but also the active co-operation of those Mem-  ber States that will be most closely concerned. We  appreciate the work of the Director-General and lus  staff as reflected in his Report, and we appreciate  their efforts to carry out whatever programme 1s ap-  proved by the Conference. But we realize that on  occasions, although the Director-General and his col  leagues do all they can to launch and foster a project,  there may be little support for it from Member States,  In our opinion, the Director-General, after consulta-  tion with the Executive Board, should be encouraged  to abandon such projects. We believe that the only  successful Unesco projects are those whicii influence,  and change in a favourable way, conditions in Mem-  ber States. .
(85) We go further: we believe that the really impor  tant activities for Unesco are not only those which ir-  fluence Member States, but those which will secure  active co-operation in Member States, This over-  simplifies the matter and I do not overloo the import-  ance of international non-governmental organizations  and of the many devoted and distinguished persons who  have contributed to Unesco's programme,    MEETINGS
(86) Nor for one moment do I wish to detract from the  key position which the Director-General and his staff  occupy. All I would do is to urge that this General  Conference encourage the Director-General and his  colleagues so to act that they will, by their organiza-  tion and planning and by their approach to the items in  the programme, use these items to evoke in Member  States action which will achieve Unesco's objects,
(87) I said at the beginning that it has been generally  agreed that the programme of the United Nations and  of the Speciahized Agencies should be stabilized, This  does not mean that we believe Unesco's programme  should be frozen. Far from it, But in our view  Unesco's programme is not what the Secretariat does-  that is only a part of it, The important part is what  is done in and by Member States. And by Member  States I mean governments. If Unesco 1s to lead to  developments in education, science and culture, de-  velopments which will promote peace and internation-  al understanding and will enhance for men and women  the quality and Joy of living, then this will not be done  by a few people in Paris, nor yet by international or  national non-governmental organizations, important  though they be. Let us take the field of education. In  this, the Director-General has a staff of about ahun-  dred in addition to another hundred technical assist-  ant experts - altogether about the staff of twolarge  teachers colleges in Australia. The Director-Gener-  al's educational staff can only be effective if they can  influence the government authorities (national, provir  cial or local) who determine educational policies and  carry those policies out, This is a slow and stren-  uous business, It is a job that needs the support of  teachers organizations - national and international -  and of universities and of interested groups of parents  and citizers, But let us make no mistake: Unesco's  work has hardly started when we adopt a programme.  It only starts when that programme is accepted by  Member States and begins to influence educational po-  liCy and practices. Rea] progress comes when it  affects pupils!
(88) It is of great interest to us that the Director-  General and the Executive Boardhave, duringthe past  year, devoted special attention to the reorganization  of Unesco's programme, The Australian Govern -  ment believes that the programme should be re-exa-  mined. We believe that too much has been said about  what Unesco is doing and that relatively too little has  been done. We believe that too little has been done  because too much has been attempted and limited re-  sources have been overstrained. We hope, therefore,  that this General Conference will encourage the Dir-  ector-General and the Executive Board to continue to  concentrate the programme of the Organizc tion so that  we shall attempt fewer things, and only things that we  can do well and that are best worth doing, We hope  that the Director-General and his staff will carefully  review their permanent services, not only in prepara  tion for a conference, but week by week during the year.  We hope they will be prepared to say to some requests  that these are beyond their resources,
(89) Finally, to return to the most difficult problem  of all, I mentioned in my opening words that it is easy  for any delegation to list items for a Unesco program-  me. What 1s difficult for us is to agree on afew items  which are important, practicable and appropriate, Yet  this is what we must do if Unesco 1s to succeed. Look  - 90 -   PLENARY  around our meeting, and see our differences - of phy-  sique, of colour, of customs, of languages, of ideas.  But let us look again, not at the differences, but atthe  common features. These are far greater thanour dif  ferences. For we are 8.1 men, sharing for atime  life on this planet, enjoying literature, music and the  pursuit of intellectual life in the company of our fel-  lows. Surely as men we can agree on a programme  which will let us together do a few things well and in  doing them show that Unesco does mean international  co-operation and does promote peace.
(90) This session has started well, Our host coun-  try has provided excellent facilities. Our Director-  General has provided a clear Report and first-class  working documents. Ours is the responsibility tosee  that this Conference leads to sound decisions and  effective action.
(91) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call upon the delegate of Indonesia.
(92) Mr. SUDJONO (Indonesia): Mr. President and  fellow delegates, first of all, on behalf of my delega-  tion and in the name of the Government of Indonesia,  should like to express our gratitude to the Govern-  ment of Uruguay for extending to all of us warm hos-  pitality and a cordial welcome to their great country  and to this beautiful city of Montevideo. Coming  from a distant part of another continent, the Indones-
1an delegation feels especially pleased and privileged  to be in a country which can feel rightly proud of its  culture and of its civilized way of life.
93) The Government and people of Indonesia have al-  ways had the highest regard for the principles of  peace, freedom and mutual understanding, for which  Unesco stands. Indeed, we regard Unesco as the  most vital and basic organization for building up all  systems and habits of co-operation between nations.  In the things of the mind and spirit we can all shave  in abundance, and in the field of education, science  and culture there should be no prejudices to divide  man from man. For this reason we welcome new  Member States to this family of nations; the more  universal the membership of Unesco, the greater are  the chances of lessening tensions and for the growth of  tolerance and goodwill in the world of today. We fer-  vertly hope that our deliberations will not be marred  by political dissensions and by all the ill will and ug-  liness which such conflicts breed.
(84) The Indonesiandelegationis pleased with the  achievements of Unesco as described in the Reportof  the Director-General, After eight years, Unescohas  erected an impressive structure of international co-  operation, upon which greater achievements can be  built quickly and confidently, The Government of In-  donesia is grateful to Unesco for valuable assistance  received in the fields of primary education, library  development, science teaching, audio-visual ids and  textbook production. During the coming years we  hope to receive its assistance in various fields,among  which the most important are the teaching of natural  and social sciences at university level, the establish-  ment of a Terminological Bureau, preservationofcul  tural property, development of museums, education  through arts and crafts, and the award of fellowships  and scholarships. In the field of technical assist-  ance, we should like to receive experts for longer  - 91 -     MEETINGS 11-8  terms than is the practice at present; unless an ex-  pert has at least two years in a specific job, his use-  fulness is limited, and there is a certain amount of  waste.
(95) There is another question to which I refer some-  what reluctantly, This is the better geographical dis-  tribution of posts in the Secretaria.. It is a pity that,  with its population of eighty millions and its rich and  unique cultural héritage, Indonesia has never beenre-  presented on the professional staff of Unesco. Such  representation is essential, not so much for the sake  of Indonesia, which can ill spare its qualified person-  nel, but for the sake of Unesco, which should have a  Secretariat fully representative of the main geographi-  cal and cultural areas of the world. In the case of  Asian and African candidates, who have no roots in  European culture, the language qualification for re-  cruitment should be relaxed. Europeans and North  Americans, especially those whose mother tongue 1s  English or French, have a special advantage over the  others, especially over Asians or Africans, who have  to learn their own languages and among whom there  are very few possessing a knowledge of the working  languages of Unesco. We feel that the work of the  Secretariat could be so organized as to utilize the  services of persons who have a first-hand knowledge of  educational and cultural conditions In a particular  region, without necessarily possessing the highest  linguistic qualifications. ! hope that the Director-  General will consider my suggestion, even if it implies à  slight increase of staff. Unesco service rightly de-  mands the highest standards of efficiency, but efficiency  does not mean linguistic proficiency alone, or con-  formity to the administrative methods or standards of  the West; more important than these factors are first-  hand knowledge of an important culture, personal in-  tegrity, complete freedom from prejudice or partiali-  ty, and a burning faith in internationalism,
(86) The Indonesian delegation will comment on the  draft programme and budget for 1855-56 when this  document is examined by the appropriate bodies. At  present, I only wish to congratulate the Director-Ge-  neral and the Executive Board on having prepared an  excellent programme, which is a very great improve  ment on the past, The increased provision of assis-  tance to Member States, especially in the field of cul-  ture, which was sadly neglected by the United Nacions  Programme of Technical Assistance, 1s most com-  mendable. Member States in the economically less  developed ccuntries require assistance in establish-  ing and developing libraries and museums, preserv-  Ing and protecting cultural property, improving edu-  cation through the arts and the crafts, and producing  cultural material like books, art reproductions and  films. The dissemination of culture is,indeed, as  important as formal education in school, and we hope  that Unesco will increase 1ts prograr.me tn this field,  which is also the best way of increasing international  understanding.
(97) My delegation 1s especially pleased with the pro-  ject for the production of reading material for new li-  terates and for the study of traditional culture incom-  munities of South East Asia undergoing rapid techno-  logical changes; both these projects are of the great-  est significance to Indonesia, indeed to all Asian and  African countries. Larger resources are needed for  these and other items of the programme, if even a   II-6 PLENARY  fraction of the needs 15 to be met. If the seventy-  two Member States of Unesco have a strong enough  faith in the ideals of peace and the brotherhood of man,  these needs can surely be satisfied by diverting ster-
1le and wasteful expenditure on armaments to con-  structive tasks in the service of humanity.
(98) Unesco can contribute immensely to the improve-  ment of international unu.erstanding by an effective  programme of cultural understanding, and especially  by making the East and the West better known to each  other. We must also find a place for the spread of  moral and spiritual values, of tolerance, goodwill and  humanism through the programme of Unesco. In our  obsession with material comfort through science and  technology, we must not forget the education of the  heart - the inculcation of a belief in the Supreme Be-  ing - which is the true culture of the individual and of  society - and which 1s also the highest aim of Unesco
(99) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call on the delegate of Egypt.
(100) Mr. AWAD (Egypt): Mr. President and fellow  delegates , although this discussion is concerned with  the Report of the Director-General of Unesco, it 1s  not inappropriate that I should begin by expressing  my gratitude at this, my second visit to the South Am-  erican continent, My first was in 1936. My mission  at that time was a Unesco-like assignment; ! was re-  presenting Egypt at a congress of PEN Clubs, at Buenos  Aires, [travelled then by steamer. This time I travelled  by air,for some 42 hours, to enjoy again the hospitality  of the great "Repiblica Oriental del Uruguay", the  great welfare State, which in many respects reflects  our conception of a true modern democracy.  | have the pleasure and the honour to bring to this  great and young democracy the greetings and the most  cordial wishes of the ancient, though perhaps still  quite young people of Egypt.
(101) The people of Egypt as well as those of all  Arabic-speaking countries feel a strong affinity with  the peoples of the Iberian peninsula and of Latin Am-  erica, and we feel à certain amount of pride in their  great achievements, and to wish them continuing suc-  cess, not only in their national undertakings but also
1n their international activities; for it is gratifyingto  see the young democracies of the Western Hemisphere  playing # leading rôle in international relations, and  helping to demonstrate the essential unity of mankind.  The Atlantic is fast becoming a narrow ditch, Soon  the Pacific will go the same way.
(102) 1 must now turn to the Report of our Director  General. It is a good document, con:isting of two  parts, both full of clear and lucid information, I do  not intend in this brief commentary to criticize or  even to refer to any individual project except.by way  of illustration. My desire is simply to make a few  observations of a general nature, concerning the mæ  jor aspects of Unesco's work. .
(103) My first remark concerns the multiplicity of  our activities. The sole object of Unesco is to work  for peace among the nations through collaboration and  mutual assistance in the fields of education, science  and culture. It may safely be said that all aspects of  cultural co-operation are bound in some measure to  promote peace. Some activities, however, are more  directly concerned with the promotion of peace than    MEETINGS  others. In our enthusiasm for some pet project, we  are liable to forget this important criterion. The pro  blem of peace is the greatest problem the world is fac  ing and Unesco should be one of the most effective in-  siruments for tackling it. The point cannot be over-  emphasized, and I feel sure that it will always be  borne in mind by our Executive Board in guiding and  planning our activities,
(104) Unesco 1s said in some quarters to be trying to  carry out projects which fall within the domain of other  organizations or Specialized Agencies of the United Na-  tions. It might, of course, be the other way round :  other organizations may be engaging in what are legi-  timate Unesco activities, If such 1s the case, Unesco  might well allow this task to rest on the shoulders of  some sister organization. | &m sure that our Execu-  tive Board will see to it that we do not tread upon the  tender feet of other agencies, and we shall always  wish them every success in their endeavours.
(105) 1 wish also to refer to an aspect of our program  me which I should like to see maintained. It seems  that there is a tendency at this stage to confer upon  the programme of Unesco a certain fixity or rigidity.l  can well imagine this to be possible or even desirable  in some other organizations. But Unesco 1s concern-  ed with the "Mind of Man", whose broad horizon and  wide scope are not compatible with limitations or res  trictions, especially at the present stage, when Unesco  is still very young and 1n process of development. Itis  quite possible that mistakes will be made. But no  blame can be attached to Unesco on their account, for  only those who do nothing at all can avoid mistakes.
(106) The Egyptian delegation feels that much has to  be done to make the world Unesco-conscious. This  applies not only to all countries, but aiso to the dif-  ferent sections of the population of each country. The  need, we feel, is equally great in the advanced and in  the underdeveloped countries. The technique to be  employed in making the world more Unesco-conscious  will probably differ in different countries. For cer  tain advanced countries films and publications may prove  effective. In my own country nothing has proved so  effective in educating the general public concerning  Unesco as the establishment of the Arab States Funda  mental Education Centre. This centre, which began  to function about two years ago, is the ideal Unesco  project from many points of view. Its cost to Unesco
1s not large, it brings Unesco into direct and intimate  contact with the people, The host country bears a  large share of the expense. The project serves a  group of countries with identical cultural backgrounds.  Its programme of work represents an attempt to meet  all the conditions of fundamental education as set out  on pages 41 and 42 of the Director-General's Report.  I had the good fortune when I was Minister of Educa-  tion to preside at the first graduation ceremony to-  wards the end of August, and to hand their diplomas to  the first group of young men and women graduates  from the different Arab countries. I also paid visits,  after the ceremony, to two of the villages where the  students were doing their practical work, or rather  where they were inducing the villagers to do the work  themselves. This work covered such a wide range of  activities as sanitation, agriculture, domestic econo-  my, health, as well as the usual literacy campaign.  The centre continues to develop and to progress, and  its new dormitory for 150 persons will permit other  - 92 -   PLENARY  parts of the older building to be used for other activi-  ties. We were fortunate in having the new building  inaugurated last September by our Director-General  himself, who managed to pay a flying visit for the pur-  pose in spite of the pressure of work at headquarters  and elsewhere. We cannot thank him enough for this  visit, though it was far too short to enable him to look  properly at other activities of great interestto Unesco,  such as educational work for the Arab refugees and the  interesting archaeological activities, in which Unesco  takes a special interest.
(107) Egypt continues to be an almost inexhaustible  treasure ground for records of ancient times; andthe  zeal of the archaeologist continues to uncover unex-  pected relics of the past. Only last spring, great ir  terest was aroused by the discovery, near the south-  ern side of the Great Pyramid, of what seemed 1. he  two funerary boats, apparently intact, which have been  lying there for some 48 centuries, The universalin-  terest aroused in this find is an indication of the hu-  man value of all relics of the past, which are not  merely a legacy of the country where they are found  but of the entire world. Surely, then, Unesco is jus-  tified in sending a special expert to assist in photo-  graphing and cataloguing pictures and drawings and  bas-reliefs, which are in danger of being destroyed  by the perennial irrigation of modern times and other  factors.
(108) Egypt is a country which lies at the junction of  the continents, and at the cross-roads of all the routes  and highways of the world, It is perhaps tne least  isolated country in the world. This is probably best  reflected in its activities in the field of cultural inter-  change. We have hundreds of Egyptian students stu-  dying abroad, We have over 5,000 foreign students  from 35 countries studying in Egypt. Some 1,500  Egyptian teachers are now teaching in neighbouring  countries and, as regards foreign teachers working  in Egypt, we cannot get as many as we would like be-  cause the rate of pay in Egypt is not as high as it  should be. Thus in cultural exchange the position of  Egypt 1s quite satisfactory; its development is limi-  ted only by the financial resources of the country.
(108) The Egyptian delegation was greatly gratified at  the admission as Associate Members of several coun  tries from the Eastern and Western Hemispheres ,and  particularly from Africa, It is a most welcome de-  velopment, indicating Unesco's interest in the liqui-  dation of colonialism, a most worthy objective, There  are many ways in which countries can learn to be in-  dependent; the best of these perhaps is the practice  of independence itself,
(110) I must conclude by expressing the pleasure that  we all felt in Egypt at the appointment of our new Dir-  ector-General, He and I have worked together as de-  legates at several conferences and I have had ample  occasion to admire his wisdom and integrity. Recent-  ly, however, I have had reason to bear hima grudge.  In his travels hr has been crossing the Atlantic tooof-  ten, the Mediterranean very little. This course must  now be reversed. After all, the Mediterraneanis the  father of the Atlantic Ocean.
(111) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish  I call on the representative of the Organization of  American States,    MEETINGS H-6
(112) Mr. NANNETTI (Representative of the Organiza-  tion of American States) (Translation from the Spanish}  Mr. President, Mr. Director-General, ladies and gen-  tlemen, before discussing the Director-General's Re-  port I should like to bring you another report - from a  village schoolmaster in the Republic of Panama,What
1 am going to read to you 1s of great significance for  Unesco. Unesco, as its Constitution proclaims, 15 to  construct the defences of peace in the minds of men,  But how 1s it to get its ideal into those minds if there  are millions who cannot read and millions with nothing  to read? How are we to convert Unesco's ideals into  convictions, standards of conduct and ways of behav-  our? What I am going to read to you lights up one  path whereby those ideals of Unesco can reach the  minds, not of the men of the cities, who have at their  disposal modern means for exchanging ideas, but the  men of the countryside, who have not received their  portion of our cultural heritage.
(113) This 1s one of thousands of communications rea-  ching the Latin American Fundamental Education Press  set up by the Organization of American States and  Unesco to produce reading material for Latin America  The writer 1s the schoolmaster at Macaracas, the very  type of all the "forgotten villages" of Latin America.  His letter reads as follows: "So far the booklets from  which we have got the best results are La Casa Rural’  (Country Housing), 'Ayuda a tu Pueblo! (Help your Vil  lage) and those on co-operatives. With "La Casa Ru-  ral’ for guide, the villagers are making notable im-  provements in neir dwellings and 'Ayuda a tu Pueblo’  has got the peasants working in teams to improve the  roads and the school. What 1s more, another booklet,  'Crédito Agricola’ (Agricultural Credit Systems) has  lately led us to establish a credit co-operative which  so far as we know is the first of its kind to be opened  in the Isthmus",
(114) This letter from a village schoolmaster 1s of  profound significance. Firstly, it shows upthe value  of books in the spreading of ideas. Again, the Umted  Nations, Unesco and the Organization of American  States are preaching a gospel of peace and human dig-  nity; the letter shows that this gospel has found mis-  sionaries and won converts, It mentions only a few  out of a million booklets on fundamental education dis-  tributed by the Organization of American States among  the villages of America.
(115) The letter points a way for Unesco to get its  ideal into the minds of men. It shows, too, the pos-  sibilities of the popular libraries established by the  Organization of American States, of which it 1s inten-  ded to set up a hundred thousand in Latin America on  the same lines as the one started in our "forgotten  village" in Panama.
(116) We sometimes hear of the hundred essential  books which everyone should read. On similar lines  the Organization of American States is compiling the  hundred essential booklets for the village dweller.  These booklets bring the villager the elementary know  ledge offered in the primary school: his mother ton-  gue, the rudiments of arithmetic and of natural and  social science. In them he will also find something  about civics, health, agriculture, work, economics,  social questions and leisure reading. The reading  material 1s graded for new literates, as a resul’ of a  painstaking investigation into content, vocabular ’,  syntax, format and presentation,  -93 -
(117) Every month, with each new booklet, anewmes-  sage comes to the Popular Library - from an educa-  tor, from a writer or poet, from a scientist or doctor  from an agricultural expert or an economist.  Thus, the Popular Library keeps the village audience  constantly in touch with science, literature and tech-  nology. This movement throws light on another un-  explored point - the place of reading in fundamental  education.
(118) It has been said, with truth, that educating peo-  ple is not merely teaching them to read. It 1s equal  ly true, however, that people cannot be educated un-  less they are taught to read. This means that read-  ing must occupy a strategic place in fundamental edu  cation. Nothing can improve on the silent dialogue  between books and men. All other means of com-  munication are ephemeral: only books have the  virtue of permanence,
(119) In fundamental education, reading must be func-  tionally related to daily life. Books must give the  answer to the spiritual and practical problems of life  both in the higher sense and in that of everyday exist-  ence. This 1s the work to which the Popular Librar-  tes, whose task 1t 1s to carry out the 1dea of functiorm  al reading in relation to the immediate problems of the  community and the individual, are giving priority.
(120) Let me repeat: the Organization of American  States plans to open one hundred thousand Popular  Libraries, supplied with fundamental educational mater-
1al, in rural communities, trade union premises, co-  operatives, country schools and other centres where  support should be sought for the education of the  masses
(121) 1 want to draw the special attention of the Con  ference to this achievement in the sphere of Latin  American fundamental education because it is direct-  ly due to co-operation between the Organization of  American States and Unesco.
(122) Another sector in which they co-operate 1s in  the traiming Of teachers for fundamental education;  the Regional Fundamental Education Centre for Latin  America has been able to count on the financial sup-  port of the Organization of American States.
(123) The present task of fundamental education 1s to  seek principles and specific objectives as a basis for  promoting definite plans of action, Fundamentaledu-  cation should be a medium whereby the sociaj ser-  vices of the State reach the local communities. The  local community 1s where the State comes into direct  contact with the people and 1s also the first school of  democracy,
(124) Democracy 1s ever improving its methods for  assessing public needs and analysing public affairs.In  that analysis, the people must be informed, and they  must be given a hearing, Thus, fundamental educa-  tion is the basis for a new method of democratic gov-  ernment, State undertakings for social improvement  should be discussed and analysed in fundamental edu-  cation centres. The work of persuasion should be  headed by the teachers, backed by the citizens and by  government experts. In this way, mere demagogic  discussion 1s replaced by honest, intelligent and in-  formed examination of common problems, with per-  suasion instead of blind submission or blind revolt.  Hence, in Latin America, governing means educating,
(125) The teacher must call in the help of State ex-  perts, particularly healtl, and agricultural experts.    MEETINGS  Unless education, health and agriculture form the  three sides of the triangle, no enduring work can be  done in the rural areas. Only the school, as the cer  tre of the community, can give organic unity to these  activities of the State, The problems of the communr  ty are intèrrelated, being all different aspects of life  as a whole. The problem of economics cannot be kepl  apart from the problem of education, nor can either be  divorced from the problem of public health, and all  three must be taken in conjunction with problems of  citizenship and of home life.
(126) If fundamental education 1s to succeed, spccia-  lists and social workers, who have hitherto workedin  watertight compartments, must realize that the com-  munity's problems form a single whole, and must be  prepared to work together to find a solution. That  should be the task of fundamental education centres,
(127) Up to now, the centres founded by Unescoin  Mexico and Egypt have drawn their students from the  education services. But fundamental educationtrans-  cends the official province of Ministries of Education  and the students sent to the training centres shouldal-  so be drawn from all the various bodies, such as the  Mimstries of Agriculture, Labour and Social Welfare,  which are equally fitted to carry on fundamental  education work.
(128) In Latin America, fundamental education needs,  moreover, a base of operations, and this is to be  found in the rural school, which 1s the nerve centre of  the local community. What 1s needed 1s to draw one  hundred thousand rural school teachers into the move--  ment and thereby mobilize legions of agents for the  spread of sound practices in health and agriculture  and the extension of social welfare. All this demands  revision of the existing plans and the conclusionof new  agreements between Unesco and countries interested  in the development of fundamental education.
(129) Hence the importance of the recent agreement  between the Organization of American States and  Unesco, under which a Joint Commission 1s to be set  up for the promotion of fundamental education in Am-  erica. I venture to suggest that the Conference give  the widest possible directives, to enable the Joint Com  mission on Fundamental Education to work effectively,  There is much that we must reconsider, much that we  must rectify and much that we need to do.
(130) The significance of this Conference must be mea  sured against the aims which the Constitution lays  down for Unesco and against the scale of the crisis  through which mankind is passing today. Unesco 1s  one expression of the moral conscience of mankind,  Unesco has been entrusted the task of building peace  in the minds and hearts of men. Twentieth-century  man 1s athirst for moral principles which willenable  him to live as an individual and with his fellows.
(131) The doctrines profferred for man's acceptance  today echo through the world as never before. Argu-  ments on either side flash in seconds across contin-  ents and seas, Man listens to the voices calling him  from the opposing camps and looks for light.
(132) The Universal Declaration of Human Rights 1s  the banner set up to rally humanity today in one bro-  therhood. Individual and collective effort to make  that Declaration a reality will establish justice and  freedom for all andthereby ensure world peace.
(133) To the crusade for peace, Unesco must summon  all the spiritual forces of mankind, One of the great  - 94 -   PLENARY  forces for peace is the Organization of American  States, the legal and corporate expression of America’s  solidarity. The Constituticn of the Organization of  American States, like that of Unesco, is based on a  humanist concept: namely, that ‘the historic mission  of America is to offer man a land of freedom". Our  Constitution also defines American solidarity and a  good -neighbour policy as meaning the establishment  in this continent and in a framework of democraticin-  stitutions a régime of personal liberty and social jus-  tice based on respect for the essential rights of man.  The American nations thereby adopted a Charter of  the human rignts by which the Universal Declaration
1s INSpir: d.
(134) Un ‘co can rest assured that its work for peace  is alread. .ccomplished in the American continentand  that, with peace secured, the way is operd for men  to rise thi ough culture. The identity of arms be-  tween Uncz-~co and the Organization of American States  makes then natural allies. Their work together has  begun with fundamental education. That 1s logical be-  cause fundamental education is the cement of human  rights; it 1s an act of faith in man. The Organization  of American States is prepared to co-operate yet more  fully with Unesco in other sectors of education,science  and culture.
(135) As representative of the Organization of Am-  erican States I deem it an honour to conf'rm the will  to co-operate, here in this land of Urugu?y, which,as  the Charter of the Organization of American States re-  quires, respects the dignity of man and offers him a  land of freedom.
(136) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish}  I call on the delegate of Uruguay.
(137) Mr. SECCO ELLAURI (Uruguay) (Translation  from the Spanish): Ladies and gentlemen, the pres-  ent duty of our delegation, as of those which have al-  ready spoken, 1s to comment on the general tenor of  the Report submitted by the Director-General on  Unesco's activities to date,
(138) Of course our judgment on the Report cannot be  based on ideal standards but must be by reference to  the immediate antecedents, that is, to the 1952 Con-  ference, The form Unesco's activities should take  in 1953 and 1954 was {.«¢ 1 by the seventh General  Conference of our Orga: .ization, held in Paris in 1952,  At that time, Unesco was faced with something of a  crisis and the Crganization then underwent a process  of revision which affected it deeply. The crisis con-  sisted essentially in the {'aposition of a standstill on  financial contributions to Unesco; and it will be clear,  on reflection, that, with a programme geared for a  high speed advance, putting a finaacial brake on its  execution meant, in fact, not simply marking time  but losing ground.
(139) The effects of this crisis or semi-crisis were  aggravated on the administrative side by the resigna-  tion of the then Director-General and the unavoidable  slowness, caused by innumerable difficulties, with  which we had to proceed over the appointment of his  successor As a result Unesco's activities inevita-  bly took the form of readaptation and readjustment.  ‘The process of readjustment was accomplished bythe  simultaneous and convergent acticn of Unesco's three  essential organs - the Executive Board,the Secretariat    MEL TINGS Il-6  and the Director-General. | call them essentialinthe  sense that in the two-year interval between Conferrn-  ces it 1s they who act, [| am happy to say that in our  view the results of the readaptatior are excellent and it
1s a pleasure to convey our congratulations on them to  the Director-General, The readjustment is apparent  in many features of the Report, of which [ will single  out a few. It is to be seen, for instance, in the case  of subventions. Here the sttuation has been regulated  in accordance with the principle that there must be a  contractual element, i.e. that a subvention, generally  speaking, must be justified, to the extent that the or-  ganization receiving the subvention is carrying cut a  function which Unesco itself could not carry out so  well nor so cheaply.
(140) Moreover - but here we are only at the begin-  ning - there 1s a careful check, as may be seen from  the Report, to make sure that the organization receiv  ing the subvention 1s genuinely international not only in  its aims but also in its structure and membership; 1t
1s not enougn for it to be, say, a European or other  "continental" organization serving the world as a  whole; it must consist of people from all over the  world, and its representation must be world wide, An  other respect in which things have appreciably 1m-  proved is in Unesco 's relations with Member States,  where contacts have been increased both with govern-  ments and with the National Corimmissions, The ques-  tion of the National Commissions 1s one of Unesco's  tender spots. The Constitution regards the National  Commissions as one of Unesco's essential organs. In  practice, however, we can all see that in our respec-  tive countries, with the exception of those blessed with  considerable means aud 1esources, the National Com-  missions - and we must admit it with regret - have not  yet achieved the results which the founders of Unesco  expected of them, The reason may be lack of money,  or that the 1dea of working through National Commis-  sions has not yet been assimilated in «!! countries, or  that, 1n several, there 1s no adequate _:cretariat, or  that the question of relations with the O: ganization's  headquarters in Paris has not yet been satisfactorily  solved. Or 1t may be, in many cases, a combination  of all these things.
(141) Another notable point in the Report, to whichon-  ty brief reference 1s made, but which nevertheless I!  feel to be of great importance, is the practice begun  by the Executive Hoard eighteen months ago of setting  aside one of its meetings, not for working through an  agenda dealing mainly with administrative matters,but  for the general discussion of the broad permanent pro-  blems with which the Organization as a whole is faced.  This practice began at Gif-sur-Yvette near Paris a:  the suggestion of Mr, Veronese, a member of the Exe-  cutive Board. The idea was enthusiastically accepted  by the other members and in this way has begun what  in my view is a most useful practice, Without it, the  Board, whi. a meets only three or four times a year,  might fall into a mechanical routine of attending only  to the problems put before it, and nevar have time to  get to the bottom of permanent problems which are not  questions of the day or hour but ones with which the  Organization is always at grips.
(142) The Report also informs us - and this seems to  me a matter of vital importance - that the Courier  has been reprieved, The Courier is one of Unesco's  essential publications. It has been of outstanding  - 95 -
11-6 PLENARY  Importance and rs destined to give a rich return. At  one point it was on the brink of extinction, that would  have been unmerited ard would have deprived Unesco  of one of its most effective organs of publicity and of  an excellent instrument for acting on the minds of men.
(143) To sum up, the readjustment effected has con-  formed to two principles concentration of action and  the establishment of priorities, This raises in my  mind certain reflections and doubts which I would like  to share with you. When we speak of "concentration"  and "priorities", we may be running into danger; we  may be on the verge of falling into mortal sin, of com-  mitting the grave mistake of thinking that one activity  should take absolute precedence over others - of think-  ing, for instance - and I have heard it said on occa-  sion - that the essential, the really important thing  for Unesco 1s fundamental education and technical aid,
(144) No one can igncre the importance of that obli-  gation, As we were eloquently reminded here the  other day, we have to fight against the tyranny of  ignorance. This my country has done, we think,su -  cessfully, and we take pride init. Here the principle  of free education at all levels, primary, secondary  technical and higher, 1s embodied in the Con-  The university capitation fee has vanished  examination entrance fees are no more. Here educa-  tion ts absolutely free, You will have < cn the other  day, at the opening of the Conference that the files of  boys and girls marching past the Palace were all  dressed alike in white overalls, for we have the ex-  cellent practice of dressing schoolchildren so that  the.r minds will not be scarred with a sense of pover-  ty and inferiority because of differences in their at-  We have built up a good : ! sound primary  school system; we have fought 11literacy to such ef-  fect that today illiterates represent no more than  about 6% of the population, We have also introduced  an extremely interesting practice into the schools :  every Uruguayan school can and should be named af-  ter a foreign country. All the countries in the world  have a school named after them in Uruguay and this is  more than a forn:al compliment because 1t produces  in each school a special admiration and feeling for the  friendly nation which acts as godmother: its anthems  arc sang, its literature studied, its customs are  made known and the citizens who come from its dis-  tant shores are honoured as representatives of that  fatherland. All this started many years ago and 1  would ask you f that 1s not Unesco in action. It is in  the very spirit of Unesco to begin the pursuit of sym-  pathy and understanding on the benches of the primary  schools. We are therefore bound to feel the impor-  tance of that cause,
(145) It 1s vital that there should be a world-wide  campaign against basic ignorance and the disease it  stitution,  tire,     MEETINGS  rnevitably brings in its train.  enemy. Downrigat ignorance is not the only breeding  ground of hates and rancours and passions. The fruits  of intolerance, hatred, incomprehenrion and fanati-  cism are not found among the ignorant alone, but among  the cultured too, and sometimes ¢ ulture serves only to  strengthen them - then they are felt with a force and  power of conviction which today are usually alien to  the uncultured. Hence, combating ignorance is init-  self no antidote to rancour and intolerance, We must  maintain the pursuit of a free culture in which all  truths have their place, follcwing the precept: seek  "the truth that shall make you free" - and I would add  "even 1f you do not find it".
(146) To put it briefiy, if we are to cultivate freedom,  we must fight for freedom to cultivate our minds and  we must uphold the principle of the free exchange of  ideas, which iacludes thought, books, information,and  the results of congressts. In other words, we must  never let the mind of man grow torpid; we must keep  it constantly on the alert with a ceaseless challer ge to  examine and re-examine its own ideas, not becorning  the slave of any single doctrine or dogma but acquain-  ted with them all, At bottom, tolerance is our power  to shift to other points of view, to avoid becoming fos-  silized in any attitude, on occasion, to doubt, That is  the spiritual tonic which Unesco must put into its mes-  sage to the world and to do that it cannot dissociate it-  self from concern with other things beycnd the pri-  mary school. It must cherish the principle of the free  circulation of 1deas, books and persons, all of which  are trammelled in our days,
(147) To corclude: Unesco 1s perhaps the mosthope-  ful phenomenon which has emerged in our troubled  world That 1s why, when this session of the Gener  al Conference was opened the other day, we did not  turn to the traditional procedure of falling back on the  Ninth Symphony. We could have greeted vnu with the  strains of Schiller's chorus with its invite. on to hu-  man hrotherhood. Instead we chose the Canticle of  Hope as a symbol - because Unesco is hope, a great  hope, rich in ideals, The debate on a report is not  the right moment to enlarge on those ideals. Thinking  too much about 1deals may even, sometimes, be a  Little barren.
(148) See how the countryman goes abouthis business:  when his fields are ripe for the harvent, he sets to  work without raising his eyes to the horizon, lookir. -  only at the corn under his sickle, That 1s how we must  work. We have before us now a series of detailed pro-  blems relating to the programmes for 1955-56. Weare  ready to tackle them with enthusiasm, from the view-  point of our individual 1deals and hopes.  But that 15 not the only  The meeting roseat 7.15 p.m,  - 96 -