Vv-16 ADMINISTRATIVE  on the documents concerning non-governmental or-  ganizations had been so wide. He endorsed the  Assistant Director-General's suggestion that the  survey of the past, set forth in document 8C/ADM/20,  could not be divorced from the proposals for the  future appearing in document 8C/ADM/21. In con-  clusion, he thought that all the work done would serve  to provide general directions and more exact  references for the future Executive Board of Unesco,
(98) Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom) would  not object to the whole matter being referred to a  working party for further consideration if that could  help the Conference. The subject, however, was a  rnost complicated one, and there was a tremendous    COMMISSION  need to study as much of the evidence as could be  made available. It was not a good plan to take hurried  decisions on such an important question and he there-  fore proposed that the salient points of the discussion  be made known to the Executive Board, which might  then devote further study to the matter with a view to  producing in two years' time fresh conclusions on the  basis of new evidence.
(99) The CHAIRMAN proposed that the discussion be  pursued at the next meeting,
(100) It was so agreed.  The meeting rose at 1.20 p,m.  SIXTEENTH MEETING
25 November 1954 at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman : Mr. BEEBY (New Zealand)  ITEMS 9.6.2 A~D 9.6.3 OF REVISED AGENDA: QUADRENNIAL  REVIEW BY "AE EXECUTIVE BOARD OF THE EMPLOYMENT  OF SUBVENTIONS (1930-1833) (document 8C/ADM/ 20) AND  QUADRENNIAL REVIEW OF THE DIRECTIVES CONCERNING  RELATIONS WITH INTERNATIONAL NON-GOVERNMENTAL  ORGANIZATIONS (document 8C/ADM/ 21) (continued)
(1) Mr. SANDOVAL VALLARTA (Mexico) said that,  in view of the satisfactory explanations given by the  representatives of the Director-General and the  Executive Board, and os it was clear that there was  no need to set up a special working party to consider  documents 8C/ADM/20 and 8C/ADM/21, the delega-  tion of his country withdrew the draft amendment it  had proposed at the previous meeting.
(2) Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom) thanked.  the delegate of Mexico for having reconsidered his  attitude. The discussion in the Commission had been  of great interest and many points of view had emerged,  but it was clear that if the problem were submitted to  a working party it would not be possible for the  Commission to submit a report to the present  Conference. He therefore moved the following  proposal:  "The General Conference, having considered the  voluminous reports on international non-governmental  organizations submitted in document 8C/ADM/20,  approves the resolutions in document 8C/ADM/20 and  refers hack to the Executive Board the suggested  changes in document 8C/ADM/21 to be reconsidered  in the light of the discussions ir. the Administrative  Commission, and where necessary with the assistance  of special experts appointed by the Executive Board.  The Executive Board should also refer the above  documents, with the report of the discussions in the    Administrative Commission, to the National Commis-  sions and invite them to forward their comments to the  Executive Board for its consideration. In the light of  the above information andthe comments of the  National Commissions, the Executive Board will make  a further report on the suggested changes in the  directives to the ninth session of the General  Conference".
(3) The proposal was seconded by the delegate of the  Philippines and supported by the delegates of Belgium,  Argentina, France andthe United States of America,
(4) Mr. KELLY (Australia) said that the proposal of  the United Kingdom delegate went a long way towards  meeting the views expressed …t the previous meeting  by the delegates of Australia, Canada, Mexico, India  and Argentina. He supported the proposal and sub-  mitted the following criteria, to be borne in mind  when granting subventions to international organizations  and institutions:
1. Were the constitution and work of the organiza-  tion truly international in character and scope?
2. Were the constitution and work of the organiza-  tion in accordance with the aims, ideals and programme  of Unesco?
3. Was Unesco the most appropriate body to provide  assistance?
4. Did the organization require the proposed  assistance for its contirued and effective contributicn  to the aims of Unesco?
(5) The third and fourth points were especially impor-  tant and he proposed that all four should be included  in the Summary Record for the guidance of the  Executive Board.  - 586 -   ADMINISTRATIVE
(8) Mr. POHL (Union of South Africa) asked whether  adoption of the United Kingdom delegate 's proposal  would preclude furtner discussion of document
8C/ADM/21.
(1) The CHAIRMAN said that there could be no fur-  ther discussion at the present juncture, since the  Organization would continue to work under existing  directives for the next two years. In reply to a  further question from the South African delegate, the  Secretariat would welcome recommendations for  improving on the draft alterations in document
8C/ADM/21.
(8) Dr. MUDALIAR (India) supported the proposal of  the United Kingdom delegate, With regard to the four  criteria suggested by the Australian delegate, while  Unesco had no intention of interfering in the affairs of  non-governmental organizations, it had an obligation  to see that certain fundamental principles were  fostered by the organizations to which it proposed  granting subventions. The Secretariat no doubt had  means of conveying the views of the Conference to  those orgenizations without impinglhig on their free-  dom. He hoped that the Executive Board's proposed  alterations would not be entirely ignored during the  coming two years, since he was not iu favour of the  existing directives remaining in force unchanged. The  Executive Board must be given some latitude in that  respect.
(9) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) stres-  sed the importance of the question raised by the  delegate of India. The United Kingdom delegate's  proposal, as it was worded, meant that the existing  directives would remain in force until the ninth  session of the Conference. According to that proposal,  the Executive Board was to reconsider the question  and engage in extensive consultations, which would  lead to a new report, on which the ninth session of the  Conference would have to take a decision. The Indian  delegate 's proposal would leave the Executive Board  some latitude to make transitional arrangements in  the light of the Commission's discussions and the  results of its own consultations. If that proposal were  accepted, the point would have to be made clear inthe  draft resolution, which, as it stood, asked only thata  still fuller report should be submitted to the  Conference at its ninth session.
(10) Mr. KOTSCHNIG (Unired States of America)  found himself, for the first time, in opposition to the  delegate of India: the question was too important to  admit of any lack of precision. The United Kingdom  delegate 's proposal provided specifically for the  current regulations to remain in force for two more  years and, if the Executive Board were to be given  the latitude desired by the delegate of India, the  Commission would have to undertake a detailed study  of document 8C/ADM/21, since not all the proposed  alterations were acceptable.
(11) Dr. MUDALIAR (India) had not intended to  advocate too wide a latitude for the Executive Board.  He nevertheless withdrew his suggestion in view of  the objections of the delegate of the United States of  America,    COMMISSION v-18
(12) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) ex-  plained that he had been trying to point out that the  United Kingdom delegate 's proposal meant that the  existing directives would continue to apply, since only  the Conference could alter them.
(13) Referring to document 8C/ADM/21, Mr. Maheu  drew attention to the proposed amendment to clause 2  of Section B (Beneficiaries) (page 11), the purpose of  which was to cover more adequately the variety of  bodies set up in implementation of resolutions of the  General Conference - such as the Unesco .astitutes in  Germany. As the Programme and Budget Commis-  sion, at its meeting that moruing, had approved the  subventions to those three institutes, the amendment  to the Directives was necessary to make that decision  legal. He therefore asked the Commission, as an  exception, to accept the following new provision for  the period 1955-56: "subventions may be granted to  non-governmental bodies set up in implementation of  a resolution of the General Conference",
(14) Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom) suppor-  ted the request of the Assistan: Director-General, but  suggested that it should be included in a separate  resolution.
(15) The first proposal of the Umitec Kingdom  delegate was adopted by the Commission.
(16) The delegate of the United Kingdom then submit-  ted a second proposal: "That the Administrative Com-  mission approves the action with regard to the three  institutes in Germany, the problem having already  been fully considered by the Programme and Budget  Commission".
(17) The proposal was duly seconded and adopted.  ITEN 9.6.4 OF REVISED AGENDA : RECOMMENDATIONS OF  THE EXECUTIVE BOARD REGARDING APPLICATIONS BY  INTERNATIONAL NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS  FOR ADMISSION TO CONSULTATIVE ARRANGEMENTS  documents 8C/ADM/22 and Annexes 1 and 2; Addenda to  document §C/ADM/ 22 and to Annex 1 of that document)
(18) The CHAIRMAN invited the representative of  the Executive Board to introduce the documents,
(19) Mr. VERONESE (Executive Board) explained  that the Executive Board, at its thirty-ninth session,  had considered applications for admission to consul-  tative arrangements from 28 international non-  governmental organizations, and the comments of  Member States on those applications. The results  were set forth in document 8C/ADM/22, Add.2, The  Executive Board recommended the General Conference  to admit 21 of those organizations to consultative ar-  rangements. It had recommended refusal in only  one case - that of the World Chess Federation - but  recommended that the decision on six other organiza-  tions be postponed until the ninth session. The Board  considered that it had insufficient information about  the Académie Internationale de la Céramique, the  International Humanist and Ethical Union and the  Union Internationale pour la Liberté d'Enseignement  to make a recommendation either for or against the  - 587 -   v-16 ADMINIETRATIVE  admission of those organizations, while, as the appli-  cations from the International Union of Students, the  World Federaticn of Democratic Youth and the Inter-  national Student Movement for tne Vinited Nations had  not arrived by the prescribe: date, they could not be  submitted for prior consideration by the Member  States, and therefore hac to be postponed.
(20) The CHAIRMAN invited discussion on the  Appendices to document 8C/ADM/22, bearing in  mind the Executive Board's recommendations in  document 8C/ADM/22 Add. 2,  Appendix 1: Conference of Internationally-Minded  Schools
(21) Approved without comment.  Appendix 2: Co-ordinating Secretariat of National  Unions of Students
(22) Approved without comment.  Appendix 3: International Association for Liberal  Christianity and Religious Freedom
(23) Approved without comment.  appendix 4: International Association for Vocational  Guidance
(24) Approved without comment.  Appendix 5: International Catholic Film Office
(25) Approved without comment.  Appendix 6:International Confederation of Professional  and Intellectual Workers
(26) Approved without comment.  Appendix 7: International Council for Educational  Films
(27) Approved without comment.  Appendix 8: International Federation of Catholic Youth |
(28) Approved without comment.  Appendix 9: International Federation of Senior Police  Officers
(29) Mr. SOLDATOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) asked what relation that organization bore  to Unesco.
(30) Dr. MUDALIAR (India) quoted the following ex-  tracts from the comments submitted by the Govern-  ment of India in a letter to Unesco dated 1 July 1954  ‘document 8C/ADM/22, Annex II, page 2): "Some of  the organizations appear to %: .2 been established  recently and, unless we have an opportunity of ob-  serving their work for some time, it would be  difficult to say whether the organizations should re-  ceive consultative status with Unesco", "In addition,    COMMISSION  these organizations shovld not confine their activities  to particular religious or racial groups".
(31) He enquired lo what extent and in what manner  Unesco proposed to co-operate with the International  Federation of Senior Police Officers.
(32) Mr. MAHEU (Assistam Director-General) said  that the Executive Committee of the International  Federation of Senior Police Officers had repeatedly  expressed its interest in Unesco's programme and its  desire that the police should be used not only for the  punishmeut, but also for the prevention of crime,  especially among juveniles. The Committee consider  ed that the police had an important part to play in  society in that respect and that the International  Federation of Senior Police Officers could help  materially in solving the problem of juvenile delin-  quency - à tragic problem, which no one concerned  with education could disregard. Mr. Maheu concluded  that it would be advantageous to extend the collabora-  tion that already existed between Unesco and that  organization,
(33) Mr. VERONESE (Executive Board) said that the  discussions in the Board had dealt with the same point  The Poard's recommendation was based on two con-  siderations: in the first place, the Feceration was not  an international police organization, but an interna-  tional federation of senior police officers whose object  was to supply its members with studies bearing on the  social aspects of their difficult work; in the second  place, if Unesco co-operated with the Federation,  both parties would be able to benefit from the exchange  of information,
(34) Mr. DE HOOG (Netherlands) had attended the  congress held by the Federation at The Hague in 1951,  and the leaders of the organization had shown the  keenest interest in Uncsco's activities. He had given  a lecture lasting an hour, and the lively discussion  that ensued had lasted still longer.
(35) Mr. BENCHENEB (France) pointed out that the  senior police officers had a profound knowledge of  society and of the means of diagnosing the causes of  the evils afflicting it. They were, in their way,  philosophers, who wished to give their colleagues in  ther Siztes the benefit of their experience. Their  rundamental aim was to make mankind better - and  that was also Unesco's aim.
(36) Dr. MUDALIAR (India) said that his request for  information had not been made in a spirit of levity. As  ‘to the activities of the Federation, the mental health  of children was surely not the concern of police or-  ganizations but came within the domain of the World  Health Organization, which was performing valuable  work in that field.
(37) Atthe request of the delegate of the USSR, the pro-  posal to admit the International Federation of Senior  Police Officers to consultative status was put to the vote  and adopted by 18 votes to 12 with 9 abstentions.  Appendix 10: International Federation of the  Periodical Press
(38) Approved without comment.  - 588 -   ADMINISTRATIVE  Appendix 11: International House Association and  Alliance Internationale des Anciens de la Cité  Universitaire.
(39) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) was in favour of  admitting those two associations, but considered that  it would be more appropriate to admit them separately.
(40) Mr. VERONESE (Executive Board) explained tnat  the Board had thought the proposed procedure would  nave the advantage of giving both associations consul-  tative status, while facilitating their relations with  Unesco. The Board had indeed recommended that the  procedure be adopted severally.
(41) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) still thought that each  of the associations, which was a distinct legal entity,  should assume its own responsibilities towards  Unesco, though they could, if they found it more  convenient, make one person, representing them both,  responsible for correspondence with Unesco.
(42) Mr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America)said  that the Economic and Social Council had for many  years been endeavouring to foster liaison between  comparable organizations and to grant group consul-  tative status. Progress had been limited, but where  successful, as with the International Touring Associa  tion and the Liternationa]l Touring Alliance, it had  proved of great convenience from the administrative  point of vie v, and valuable in bringing about closer  co-operation between non-governmental organizations,  Unesco, whose consultative relations were, to some  extent, modelled on those of the Economic and Social  Council, should therefore accept and not oppose such  a request,
(43) He supported the application.
(44) Mr. SANDOVAL VALLARTA (Mexico) saw no  reason for admitting the International House Associa-  tion and the Alliance Internationale des Anciens de la  Cité Universitaire separately, since in paragraph 8  of Appendix 11 (document 8C/ADM/22, Annex !,page
23) it was clearly stated that the two organizations  had concluded an agreement "by which members of  one association are considered as members of the  other". That meant that approval of one organization  would adequately cover the other.
(45) The application was approved.  Appendix 12: International Labour Assistance
(46) Approved without comment.  Appendix 13: International League for the Rights of  Man
(47) Mr. AFTALION (Argentina) mainta.ned that the  recognition and admission of organizations to con-  sultative status always entailed some risk to Unesco's  prestige, From that point of view, the Directives so  far in force seemed to be somewhat inadequate; the  Government of India had indeed stated, in an official  document, that Unesco should lay down definite  criteria on the question,
(48) In the particular case of the International League    COMMISSION v-16  for the Rights of Man, the only material available for  forming an opinion of its activities was that contained  in paragraph 7 of Appendix 13 (document 8C/ADM/22,  Annex |, page 26). But a close perusal of the second  part of paragraph 7 immediately revealed that the  protest meetings organized by the League, and  referred to in the above-mentioned document, were  not in keeping with the guiding principles of Unesco,  although neither the League nor its affiliated bodies  might take part in street demonstrations with  political aims.
(49) For that reason, the delegation of Argentina felt  obliged to oppose the recognition sought by the Inter-  national League for the Rights of Man; and if his  opposition was not considered to be sufficiently well  founded, he requested that more information about the  "main activities" of the League be collected, for the  prestige of Unesco was at stake.
(50) Mr. BENCHENEB (France) reminded the Com-  mission that the aim of the League for the Rights of  Man was well known. The League was trying, by all  means in its power, to give man a higher sense of his  dignity. In many countries, it had had to fight to gain  recognition of its point of view, and it had done so with  great dignity. The French delegation was sorry to  find that, though deeds of courage were rewarded on  the battlefield, they were not rewarded in time of  peace. The League for the Rights of Man had consul-  tative status with the Economic and Social Council; it  enjoyed a high reputation and did not seek to cause  disturbances; its activities were exactly in line with  those of Unesco; and the French delegation was  strongly in favour of its admission.
(51) Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom) said  that his Government had investigated the organization  and whole-heartedly supported its application.
(52) The application was approved by 30 votes to 2  with 5 abstentions.  Appendix 14: International Social Science Council  {53) Approved without comment.  Appendix 15: International Union for Protecting  Public Morality
(54) Approved without comment.  Appendix 16: Société européenne de Culture
(55) Approved without cori..ent.  Appendix 17: Universal Esperanto Association
(56) Approved without comment.  Appendix 18: World Chess Federation
(57) Mr. STEPANEK (Czechoslovakia) asked what  were the Executive Board's reasons for rejecting the  application.
(58) Mr. VERONESE (Executive Board) said that the  application from the World Chess Federation had  given rise to lengthy discussions inthe Board. Arguments  - 589 -   V-186  involving history and educational theory had been ad-  duced, and two currents of opinion had emerged: one  side regarded chess as a form of recreation, whereas  the other considered that it could contribute to  cultural and intellectual development. The former  school of thought had prevailed, and the majority had  decided against admitting the World Chess Federation
(58) Mr. STEPANEK (Czechoslovakia) disagreed with  the views of the Executive Board. Chess was an  important intellectual activity and helped to develop  and strengthen co-operation between nations. He  moved that the application be accepted.
(60) The proposal was seconded by the delegate of  Spain and supported by the delegates of the USSR, the  United Kingdom and Nicaragua.
(61) Mr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America)  supported the views of the Executive Board. After  careful consideration, he could find no reasons for  supportirg the application or any ways in which the  Federation could contribute to the aims and activities  of Unesco. None of its activities - which he quoted -  qu.lified it for consultative status with Unesco, and  the argument that it provided mental training might  equally well be applied to Latin or Bridge. it was  essential to set a limit to the organizations which  could be admitted to consultative status.
(62) Mr. POHL (Union of South Africa) associated  himself with the opinions of the United States delegate.  The privilege of consultative status should be granted  sparingly and only to organizations which were well  known and were believed capable of making a practical  contribution to the work of Unesco. A limit must be  set, to prevent Unesco from becoming an instrument  for encouraging innumerable organizations with  sectional interests.
(63) Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom) sup-  ported the application. Chess was a cultural exercise  and as such was entitled to a place in the programme  along with other forms of culture on the agenda. It  was, moreover, a very special kind of exercise, with  a long history of association with the cultures of many  countries, and had played a great part in the  intellectual deve'opment of mankind.
(64) Mr. WIECHECKI (Poland) asked on what  criteria the applications of non-governmental orga-  nizations were accepted or refused. The Commission  had just agreed to admit the International Federation  of Senior Police Officers, whose aims he reread. Mr.  Wiechecki could not see in what way the World Chess  Federation, which organized international meetings  for cultural purposes, was less suitable for  admission than the International Federation of Senior  Police Officers.
(65) Dr. MUDALIAR (India) opposed the application.  The Indian Gevernment felt that Unesco was not suf-  ficiently discriminating in its admission of organiza-  tions to consultative status, and shared the opinion of  the delegate of Argentina that some organizations  only wished to use Unesco as a stepping stone to  enhance their position within Member States, He  ADMINISTRATIVE     COMMISSION  asked how many organizations were already associated  with Unesco and urged that before adding to the num-  ber a set of firm criteria for admission should be  drawn up, studied by the Executive Board and submitted  to the next General Conference,
(66) In reply to the Indian delegate 's question, Mr.  HERCIK (Secretariat) said that Unesco had consultative  arrangements with 105 international non-governmental  associations.
(67) In reply to the Polish delegate, he mentioned the  four criteria for admission to consultative arrange-  ments, which were contained in the Directives issued  by the General Conference at its fifth session and  were stiil in force (cf. document 8C/ADM/21, page 4).
(68) The CHAIRMAN asked for a vote on the proposal  to admit the World Chess Federation to consultative  status with Unesco,
(69) The proposal was rejected by 20 votes to 17 with
7 abstentions,  Appendix 19: World Movement of Mothers
(70) Approved without comment.  Appendix 20: Académie internationale de la Céramique
(71) Mr, HELLER (Académie internationale de la  Céramique) said that the organization which he repre-  sented was not only carrying out a programme entirely  in keeping with resolutions 4,321 and 4.322 of the  ‘Proposed Programme and Budget for 1955-56, but was  also, by its very structure, a small-scale model of  Unesco, as its members were appointed by their  respective governments.
(72) Up to 1 June 1954, the governments of 43 coun-  tries had given it their support, and it was clear, from  the list of those countries (paragraph 5, Appendix 20,  Annex I. Add. 1 to document 8C/ADM/22), that the  Academy was neither a private nor a restricted  organization, but represented thousands of teachers  and workers in ceramics throughout the world.
(73) Therefore, in consideration of the aims and  activities it pursued, the Academy requested that  Unesco admit it to consultative arrangements.
(74) Mr. VERONESE (Executive Board) stated that the  Board proposed to defer action on the application, on  the grounds that the Académie internationale de la  Céramique covered a rather narrow specialized field;  the Board would more readily approve the admission  of a broader organization of decorative artists, which  could be established within the Association of Artists,  founded with Unesco's help.
(75) Mr. PAGE (Canada) agreed with the views of the  Executive Board. He asked in what way the Canadian  Government had supported the Académie internationale  de la Céramique,
(76) Mr. HELLER (Académie internationale de la  Céramique) having replied that the Canadian Depart-  ment of Education had appointed a representative to  his organization, Mr. PAGE (Canada) denied that that  was the case and deplored the many similar inaccuracies  - 590 -   ADMINISTRATIVE  which had come to light during the discussion of  non-governmental organizations.
117) Mr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) said  that the organization under discussion had great  potentialities which might justify its admission to  consultative status at the proper time. It was clear,  however, from the preceding remarks that its orga-  nizational situation was at present somewhat obscure.  The Académie had been set up very recently, and  deiegates had not had time to ascertain its relations  with their own countries, He therefore proposed  that action be postponed until the next General Con-  ference and hoped that by then there would be  sufficient justification for whole-hearted support.
(18) The proposal of the United States delegate was  adopted.  Appendix 21: International Federation of Children's  Communities
(79) Mr. FRAGA IRIBARNE (Spain) noted that Spain  appeared in paragraph 3 of Appendix 21 (document
8C/ADM/22, Annex I. Add.), although his country's  National Commission had not yet been able to dis-  cover who was its representative on the International  Federation of Children's Communities. He therefore  asked for the name of the said representative.
(80) Mr. HERCIK (Secretariat) stated that the Inter-  national Federation of Children's Communities was  represented in Madrid by a correspondent, Professor  Bosch Marin. The Federation was composed partly  of communities and partly of groups of communities.
(81) Mr. FRAGA IRIBARNE (Spain) said that the  information given confirmed what he had thought, as  the person just named was not the Director of any  institute of that kind in Spain, As, in addition, the  Children's City (Ciudad de los Muchachos) in Madrid,  which was the most important organization of its kind  in Spain, was not represented in the Federation, he  asked that a vote be taken on the item.
(82) On the proposal of the delegate of Spain, a vote  was taken on the admission of the International  Federation of Children's Communities.
(83) The application was approved by 16 votes to 5  with 16 abstentions.  Appendix 22: International Federation of Women  Lawyers
(84) Miss POLICARPIO (Philippines) said that,  although small in membership, the Federation's  function was as important as that of other organiza-  tions whose applications had been accepted. It was  essential to give women the opportunity to participate  in the work of Unesco and she supported the  application for admission.
(85) Mr. MARDONES RESTAT (Chile) felt that the  general features of the professions for which univer-  sity training was necessary did not justify an internal  division into men and women; and that, contrery to    COMMISSION _ v-16  the implications of the application of the International  Federation of Women Lawyers (document 8C/ADM/22,  Annex I. Add.), it would be mor: logical to have one  organization for such professions, so as to avoid such  difficulties,
(86) Miss POLICARPIO (Philippines) agreed with the  delegate of Chile on the need for concentration in  professions but pointed out that not eyery woman  lawyer had the opportunity to practise, and many, like  herself, were teachers.
(87) Mrs. HEFFELFINGER (United States of America}  warmly supported the Federation, whose objects  included the protection of children, the promotion of  opportunities for women in industry, business and  professions, and the securing of equal rights for  women.
(88) The application was approved.  Appendix 23: International Humanist and Ethical Union
(89) It was decided to recommend that a decision be  postponed until the ninth session of the General  Conference.  Appendix 24: International Union for the Liberty of  Education
(90) It was decided to recommend that a decision be  postponed until the ninth session of the General  Conference.  Appendix 25: World Union of Catholic Teachers
(91) Approved without comment.  Appendix 26: International Union of Students
(92) Replying to a question from the Czechoslovak  delegate, who wished to know why a decision on the  application of the International Union of Students had  been deferred, Mr. VERONESE (Executive Board)  stated that, as he had already mentioned, the Board  had recommended that action be postponed (as in the  cases of the World Federation of Democratic Youth  and the International Student Movement for the United  Nations) on the ground that the organizations’ applica-  tions had not been submitted by the date stipulated, in  time for Member States to express their opinions,
(83) Mr. HAYEK (Czechoslovakia) did not consider  the Executive Board's recommendation was justified.  He poinied out that the International Union of Students  had submitted its application for membership to the  Secretariat on 18 September 1854, at the same time  circulating full details of its work to Member States,  Document 8C/ADM/22, Annex 1.Add.2 had been dis-  tributed on 21 October 1954. It was now 25 November,  and the Czechoslovak Government considered that  there had been time enough for Members to form an  opinion on the aims and activities of the Union, par-  ticularly as the application was not a new one, but a  request for review of a decision taken by the General  Conference at its seventh session. That decision had  been based on argumente which, in the opinion of the  - 581 -   V-16 ADMINISTRATIVE  Czechoslovak Government, did not accurately reflect  the facts; it had been alleged that the International  Union of Students had taken too little interest in  Unesco's aims and activities, while in fact, in that  same year (1952), the Union liad taken part in the  deliberations of a working party organized in consul-  tation with Unesco. He thought it no more than  justice to right a decision taken on the basis of insuf-  ficient information, and said it was in the interests of  Unesco itself that the Czechoslovak Government  recommended that the Union, which had been estab-  lished almost simultaneously with Unesco and the  United Nations, and whose programme faithfully  mirrored the fundamental ideas of those two  organizations, be accorded consultative arrangements.  The maintenance of the closest possible relations with  United Nations bodies, and with Unesco in particular,  was mentioned in the Union's constitution as being one  of its permanent activities. The Czechoslovak  delegate considered that, among the applications  submitted at the current session of the Conference,  the Union and the World Federation of Democratic  Youth were ‘he organizations most deserving of  having consultative arrangements with Unesco. He  pointed out that the membership of the International  Union of Students was world-wide, and mentioned its  various activities, including the organization of  world festivals, which did much to spread and foster  the ideas Unesco stood for; thanks were due to the  Union for having made the ideal of international  understanding between young people a reality. In  conclusion, the Czechoslovak delegate felt that the  Commission knew enough about the Union's activities  and its pas* record of co-operation with Unesco to  recommend that the Conference grant it consultative  arrangements.
(94) Mr. TAMAS (Hungary) maintained that the  organization and activities of the International Union  of Students and the World Federation of Democratic  Youth (document 8C/ADM/22, Annex I. Add.2) were in  entire conformity with the conditions which interna-  tional non-governmental organizations were required  to fulfil (document 8C/ADM/21). He recalled that  when the World Confederation of Organizations of the  Teaching Profession had sought admission to consul-  tative arrangements in 1852, the postponement then  recommended by the Executive Board to the seventh  session of the General Conference, which was ;  similar to the postponement suggested in the cases  under consideration, evoked an energetic protest from  the delegate of the United States of America. He  therefore proposed that the applications of the two  organizations be approved.
(95) Mr. PAGE (Canada) moved that consideration be  postponed until the next session of the General Con-  ference, first because the Commission had already  approved the application of a student organization -  the Co-ordinating Secretariat of National Unions of  Students; and secondly, because of the lack of  adequate information to support the application at the  present juncture.
(96) He recalled the discussions at the seventh session  of the General Conference, when he had been Chairman  of the working party set up to deal with the problem.  Since that time he had acquired additional information    COMMISSION  on the International Union of Students, and he quoted  figures which showed that, while on paper representa.  tion appeared to be adequate and well distributed geo-  graphically, mau of the affiliates were in fact  fragmentary organizauvns in no way representative of  their respective countries or of university students,
(97) Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom) strongly  supported the Canadian delegate's proposal, not only  on technical grounds. but because of the character of  the organization, which appeared to be more political  than educational, He reminded the Commission that  the Economic and Social Council had withdrawn its  consultative rights.
(98) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) re-  minded the Commission that the papers submitted to it  were dated 21 October; on the same date, in accord-  ance with the Rules of Procedure, the Director-  General had circulated them for information to the  Member States, some of which had forwarded  comments. Those comments had arrived after the  final date, 10 November, too late for inclusion in the  printed document. They had been received on 16  November, after the Conference had opened, and had  been communicated verbally to the Executive Board,  and duly noted. A number of Member States had  supported the Union's application (Hungary,  Czechoslovakia, USSR, Ukraine and Byelorussia),  while two States had opposed it (United Kingdom and  United States of America).
(99) Mr. SOLDATOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) said that, if it were granted consultative  status, the International Union of Students could make  an important contribution to Unesco's work for  international understanding in education and culture.
(100) He supported the application, and regretted that  the opposition expressed by certain delegates seemed  to be based on political grounds rather than on the  facts concerning the organization's activities.
(101) Mr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America)  supported the Executive Board's recommendation to  postpone until the next General Conference a decision  on the International Union of Students, the World  Federation of Democratic Youth and the International  Student Movement for the United Nations, the applica-  tion in each case having been received too late to  permit of the careful consideration which was  necessary. The case quoted by the delegate of  Hungary was an entirely different matter: the delay  had been caused by an unfortunate oversight on the  part of the Secretariat and it had been agreed not to  penalize the organization in question,
(102) The delay on the part of the International Union  of Students and the World Federation of Democratic  Youth was especially serious, as it was not likely to  encourage confidence in organizations which were  applying for consultative rights previously withdrawn  and, moreover, did not allow time for the acquisition  of information which might lead to a reversal of  opinion.
(103) Mr. HAYEK (Czechoslovakia) said that the last  statement by the United States delegate showed that  certain delegations regarded the question not in the  - 582 -   ADMINISTRATIVE  light of Unesco's interests, but of their own purely  political likes and dislikes,
(104) He recalled that a Committee, elected by the  Third Conference of Non-Governmental Organizations  had, on 5 December 1952, noted with regret the  proposal to withdraw consultative status from certain  organizations which had shown a keen interest in  Unesco's programme and had taken part in confer-  ences which Unesco had convened. The Committee  had hoped that the decision would be reconsidered by  the appropriate organs of Unesco. One of the or-  ganizations sc excluded had been the International  Union of Students. The Czechoslovak delegate re-  marked that the arguments put forward by the  delegate of the United States of America were at  variance with his previous statements, already  referred to by the Hungarian delegate; the United  States Government seemed to have found time enough  to give a negative reply on political grounds which  were only too clear. Finally he reiterated his  proposal to recommend that the International Union  of Students be approved for consultative arrangements.
(105) The CHAIRMAN asked for a vote on the amend-  ment proposed by the delegate of Canada: "That con-  sideration of the application of the International Union  of Students be deferred until the ninth session of the  General Conference”.
(106) The amendment was adopted by 26 votes to 6  with 6 abstentions.  Appendix 27: World Federation of Democratic Youth
(107) Mr. HAYEK (Czechoslovakia) proposed that  the Commission recommend that the World Federa-  tion of Dernocratic Youth be approved for consultative  arrangements; the arguments in favour of his pro-  posal regarding the International Union of Students  had even more force in the case of the World  Federation of Democratic Youth.
(108) The motion was supported by the delegates of  Poland and the USSR.
(109) Mr, MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  informed the Commission of the comments re-eived  from Member States since the opening of the Confer-  ence, Those in favour of admitting the Federation  were Hungary, Czechoslovakia, USSR, Ukraine and  Byelorussia; those against its admission were the  United Kingdom and the United States of America.
(110) Mr. BLOCH (World Federation of Democratic  Youth) said that the Federation he represented, and  the International Union of Students, were the two  largest youth organizations in the world, and that  their aims were essentially the same as those of  Unesco, since both organizations were working for  international understanding and were seeking to give  thousands of young students in colonial, semi-  colonial and underdeveloped countries opportunities  for education and culture,
(111) Neither of them was, as had been alleged, a  political organization. Their only loyalty was to the  cause of international peace and co-operation, And  those who today gave the name of democracy to what    COMMISSION V-16  only recentiy they had called fascism, could certainly  not level accusations against them.
(112) Up to the seventh session of the General Con-  ference, both organizations had had consultative status.  The Executive Board, by recommending that they  should not be admitted until the ninth session of the  General Conference, showed that it had not taken into  account the recommendation made in 1952.
(113) The question of date under discussion was very  important to the organizations, for if their admission  were postponed for another two years, they would be  prevented from co-operating more closely with Unesco,  The World Federation of Democratic Youth therefore  requested that account be taken of the fact that the  organizations' applications were prompted by the con-  tribution they could make to the work of Unesco, and  also asked for it to be borne in mind that Unesco  should not exercise discrimination.
(114) Mr, VERONESE (Executive Board) wished to  make one point clear. The representative of the  World Federation of Democratic Youth had just  asserted that the Executive Board had taken no ac-  count of the discussions at previous sessions of the  General Conference, in which it had been agreed that  any association from which consultative status had  been temporarily withdrawn was entitled to submit a  fresh application. The Executive Board had never  disputed that right, but it had felt that the way in  which the Federation's request had been submitted  made {ts recommendation impossible,
(115) Mr. PAGE (Canada) said that he had listened  with great interest to the statement of the representa-  tive of the World Federation of Democratic Youth and  agreed with him that the problem needed careful study.  From his own experience of the organization, he did  not believe that it was representative of more than  ten per cent of the Member States listed in paragraph
5 of Appendix 27; he recalled that one of the criteria  for admission to consultative status was that national  representation should be truly national and not frag-  mentary. The Canadian delegation was not prepared  to support the application at the present time.
(116) Mr. KELLY (Australia) moved that the recom-  mendation of the Executive Board be adopted. The  tardy submission of the application was evidence of  inefficiency, and because of that inefficiency he had  been unable to obtain precise instructions from his  Government.
(117) Mr. TAMAS (Hungary) said that his delegation  warmly supported the application of the International  Union of Students and the World Federation of Demo-  cratic Youth. He compared the attitude of the United  States delegation on the question at the seventh ses-  sion of the General Conference and at the current  Conference, and asked why, if the space of two months  had been sufficient in 1952, it was no longer so in 1954,  in order to approve the admission of the two organiza-  tions in question.
(118) Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom)  seconded the proposal of the Australian delegate. He  had followed the eloquent appeal of the representative  of the World Federation of Democratic Youth with  - 503 -   V-16  careful attention to see if it provided any reasons  which might justify him in departing from his Govern-  ment's instructions. Unfortunately it had only  confirmed those instructions. He opposed the  application for the same reasons as he had opposed  that of the International Union of Students - which, he  reminded the Commission, had in 1950 expelled  Yugoslavia as a traitor to the cause of peace and  democracy.
(119) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) moved the closure of  the debate, since all the members of the Commission  were well aware of the arguments which could be  adduced on either side.
(120) Mr. HAYEK (Czechoslovakia) reiterated that  the entire discussion had confirmed what he had said  from the beginning of the consideration of the applica-  tion of the International Union of Students; the pro-  posal to postpone a decision on the applications of the  two organizations was prompted by purely political  considerations; and that, from Unesco's point of  view, was a great pity. The Hungarian delegate had  shown that certain delegations, and the Executive  Board, applied the regulations concerning the time-  limits for the receipt of applications differently for  different organizations, and gave unfair treatment to  those which had incurred certain governments’  disfavour by reason of their work for peace, thereby  seeking to disquriify youth organizations whose  support would te invaluable in bringing knowledge of  Unesco to the 4reat bulk of the younger generation all  over the wor'd. Mr. Hayek urged the Commission  te wah time for thought before members allowed  themselves to be inveigled into a course of action  contrary to Unesco's principles. In conclusion, he  moved that the Commission recommend the General  Conference to approve the World Federation of  Democratic Youth for admission to consultative  arrangements.
(121) Mr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America),  replying to a question which had been asked earlier  in the discussion, said that he had already explained  the facts relating to the case referred to by the  delegate of Hungary. He requested that his  explanation should be included in the Summary Records.
(122) Mr. VERONESE (Executive Board) deplored the  suggestion made by the delegation of Czechoslovakia  that the Executive Board had acted under pressure.  That had never been the case.
(123) The CHAIRMAN asked for a vote on the  Australian delegate's proposal that the Commission  should recommend postponement of the question until  the ninth session of the General Conference, taken as  an amendment to the proposal of the Czechoslovak  delegate.
(124) The amendment was adopted by 28 votes to 6  with 3 abstentions.  Appendix 28: International Student Movement for the  United Nations
(125) Mr. KELLY (Australia) moved the adoption  - 504 -  ADMINISTRATIVE     COMMISSION  of the Executive Board's recommendation,
(126) The proposal was seconded by the delegate of  the Philippines and supported by the delegate of Turkey,
(127) The CHAIRMAN announced that the representa-  tive of the Worid Federation of United Nations  Associations had requested permission to address the  Commission. He proposed to grant the request, under  the provision in Rule 68 of the Rules of Procedure that  observers of international non-governmental organiza-  tions could make statements on matters within their  respective competence.
(128) Mr. ARIAS-PEREZ (World Federation of United  Nations Associations) said that approval of the recog-  nition of the organization he represented would simply  mean giving legal recognition to a situation which had  already more than five years’ sanction in practice,
(128) The organization was the only international  movement among young people in universities through-  out the world which was designed to support the  principles of the San Francisco Charter, In that  respect, its co-operation in the work of Unesco had  been very considerable.
(130) If the organization were refused consultative  status on grounds of strict legal considerations and  without taking into account other more human consi-  derations, the present enthusiasm of thousands cf  students would be damped.
(131) He therefore asked that the question should be  thought over fairly and calmly tefore a decision was  taken on the admission of the Movement to consultative  arrangements with Unesco.
(132) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) asked exactly when  the International Student Movement for the United  Nations had applied for admission,
(133) Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom) had no  objection to the organization, but thought that the  same pro-edure should be applied to it as to other  organizati. ns in the same position, i.e. those whose  applications had arrived too late to be examined by  the Member States.
(134) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) agreed; he personal-  ly could express no opinion, as he had not had the  time to consult the Beigian National Commission.
(135) A vote was taken on the proposal to defer the  decision on the application of the International Student  Movement for the United Nations, which was approved  by 28 votes to 0, with 7 abstentions,  ITEM 9.6.3 OF REVISED AGENDA: RENEWAL OF FORMAL  AGREEMENTS CONCLUDED WITH NON-GOVERNMENTAL  ORGANIZATIONS (8C/ADM/23 and Addenda)
(136) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) then  presented document 8C/ADM/23 and Addenda, dealing  in particular with the renewal of th: formal agree-  ments concluded with 8 non-governmental organiza-  tions, which were due to expire on 31 December 1954.  The General Conference was asked to prolong them  until 31 December 1955, as the Executive Board was   ADMINISTRATIVE  competent to take the necessary action for 1956, The  Member States consulted had raised no objections,  except that the Australian Government had commented  on the premises made available to the organizations.  Mr. Maheu recalled that he had already stated at the  previous meeting that, apart from two other orgamza-  tions, those mentioned were the only ones housed in  Unesco's headquarters, It had been decided that the  whole question should be reconsidered by the Executive  Board, since the Australian delegate had not insisted  that it be discussed by the Commission.
(137) The Executive Board had also approved a draft  formal agreement to be concluded with the Interna-  tional Social Science Council, which was accordingly  submitted to the General Conference for ratification.
(138) The CHAIRMAN drew attention to the fact that,  in accordance with Section A, paragraph 4 of docu-  ment 8C/ADM/23, the eight forrial agreements at  present in force wer: submitted «0 the General  Conference for review and renewal until 31 December
(139) Mr. POHL (Union of South Africa) moved that  the Commission recommend the renewal of the  agreements.
(140) The proposal was seconded by the United  Kingdom delegate,    COMMISSION v-11
(141) Mr. MARDONES RESTAT (Chile) enquired  whether the conclusion of the agreements meant that  the non-governmental organizations in question would  receive increased or altered subventions,
(142) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) said  that it would not; the question had no bearing on that  of subventions.
(143) The Commission passed to the discussion of the  Draft Formal Agreement with the International Social  Science Council (8C/ADM/23 Add. 1).
(144) The CHAIRMAN asked for comments on the  ratification of the draft agreement.
(145) Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom) moved  that the Commission recommend the General Con-  fereuce to ratify the Draft Formal Agreement with  the International Sociui Science Council.
(146) The proposal was seconded by the delegate of  the Union of South Africa, supported by the delegates  of Haiti and Belgium and adopted.  The meeting rose at 7.20 p.m.  SEVENTEENTH MEETING
29 November 1954 at 10 am.  Chairman : Mr. BEEBY (New Zealand)  ITEM 9.5.6.1 OF REVISED AGENDA: MEDICAL BENFFITS  SCHEME (document 8C/ADM/ 1%)
(1) Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller), introducing  the report of the Director-General on the Unesco  Medical Benefits Fund, said that it had two main  proposals. The first (paragraph 4) was in connexion  with the contributions to be paid into the Medical  Benefits Fund by the Organization and by the staff  members. The second (paragraph 7) dealt with the  methods whereby contributions were calculated.
(2) Until 1953, the contributions paid in by the  Organization had been equal to those paid by the staff.  It had then been found that income wos not sufficient  to meet needs, and the Director-General thought that  the contributions by the staff should be increased,  those by the Organization remaining the same.
(3) The Director-General was now proposing to revert  to the old system, but with a new scale of contribu-  tions (paragraph 9). The new scale had five  contributory levels instead of three (see Annex II)  and took much more accurately into account    the real number of dependents enrolled in the fund.
(4) As regarded the second proposal, the calculation  of contributions, the practice hud hitherto been for  contributions paid by staff to bv: deducted from their  basic salaries, But it was the practice in all  Specialized Agencies to include certain specific  allowances paid to staff in the General Services Cate-  gory in the pensionable remuneration on the basis of  which contributions were paid. Accordingly, the  Director-General was asking for authorization to do  the same thing.
(5) The rest of the report was a detailed account of  the operation of the fund up to the end of 1953.
(63 Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon, seconded by Mr.  ARTHUR (United Kingdom), moved adoption of the  resolution in paragraph 9.
(7) Mr.KELLY(Australia), while in sympathy with the  resolution, asked why allowances were included inthe  amount on which contributions were calculated only in  the case of staff in the General Services Category.  - 595 -