3 December 1954 at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman : Mr. BEEBY (New Zealand)  ITEM 8.4.5: ADMINISTRATION OF THE WORKING CAPITAL  FUND (document 8C/ADM/8) AND  ITEM 9.3.9 OF REVISED AGENDA: RECOGNITION OF THE  COMPETENCE OF INTERNATIONAL ADMINISTRATIVE  TRIBUNALS (document 8C/ADM/ 18) (continued)
(1) The CHAIRMAN announced that the delegate of  Belgium wished to make a proposal amending  document 8C/ADM/8.
(2) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) : eturned to the pro-  posal he had submitted at the previous meeting, the  text of which he had now revised in consultation with  the Comptroller of the Organization.
(3) His proposal was that a sub-paragraph (c) be  inserted in document 8C/ADM/9 (Administration of  the Working Capital Fund), under B (ii), to read as  follows:  "(c) awards of compensation ordered by the  Administrative Tribunal of the International Labour  Organization",
(4) He further proposed to delete the last paragraph  of that section of the document, and to substitute the  following:  "The Director-General shall report to the next  ordinary session of the General Conference all ad-  vances made under this clause and the circumstances  relating thereto. At the same time he shall submit  proposals for the reimbursement of such advances to  the Working Capital Fund".
(5) Miss LAISE (United States of America) asked if  any items being discussed by the Programme and  Budget Commission were likely to affect the Working  Capital Fund resolution, .
(6) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL replied that he wo.ld  find out from the Secretary of the Programme and  Budget Commission what the position was.
(7) Mr, BAUGNIET (Belgium) pointed out that the  question raised by the United States delegate did not  concern the current session of the Conference, since  reimbursement of the Working Capital Fund would  only come up for discussion at the next session,
(8) Miss LAISE (United States of America) recalled  that the unforeseen and unpredictable expenses which  could be met by drawing from the Working Capital  Fund were strictly limited to: (a) those arising from  requests from the United Nations; (b) salary adjust-  ments; (c) awards of compensation. Unesco might,  for example, wish to draw on the Working Capital  Fund to meet the cost of co-operating with the United  - 638 -     Nations in its scheme for the peaceful use of atomic  energy. That item would either have to be earmark-  ed in the budget, or covered by funds drawn from the  Working Capital Fund; if the latter solution were to  be adopted, Section II, 2A (page 1 of document
8C/ADM/ 9) would have to be broadened.
(9) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained that the  Programme and Budget Commission had been given  a work plan for co-operation with the United Nations  in its scheme for the peaceful use of atomic energy,  involving expenditure of $40,000, which was inclu-  ded in the budget. It was believed that that was a  reasonable proposal in terme of the resolution  adopted by the committee of the General Assembly.  However, plans might change during the two-year  period, and it might be wise to provide for the pos-  sibility of drawing on the Working Capital ‘und, in  case Unesco were called upon to shoulder additional  responsibilities,
(10) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) moved adoption  of the Belgian amendments.
(11) The Belgian amendments in document 8C/ADM/9  were adopted.
(12) Mr. NOGUEIRA (Uruguay), on a question of  procedure, remarked that neither the Spanish-  speaking delegates nor interpreters could follow the  discussion in detail since the words which had been  added to the original text had not been given out in  Spanish. He pointed out with all due respect that,to  avoid similar difficulties, the Commission ought not  in future to discuss documents which had not been  distributed in all the working languages.
(13) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the Belgian  amendments had been proposed in the course of the  meeting and there had not been time to translate  them into Spanish. He apologized to the delegate of  Uruguay.  ITEM 9.5.4.1: STAFF REGULATIONS AND STAFF RULES  (document 8C/ADM/2T)
(14) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) stated that the  changes in the text were not clearly brought out in  document 8C/ADM/27; he recalled the discrepancies  already noted between the original English text and  the French version, some of which had far-reaching  implications, It would have been better to arrange  the document in two columns, one giving the original  text, and the other the text as amended,   ADMINISTRATIVE
(15) Mr. FARR (Chief, Bureau of Personnel and  Management) explained that the divergencies dis-  covered in 1953 between the English and French texts  related to the Staff Regulations and not to the Staff  Rules. With the exception of the divergency in  Regulation 4.5.1, mentioned by the delegate of  Belgium, all were minor, drafting differences, Amend-  ments to the Rules had not been indicated secause, as  stated by the Director-General in his Annual Report,  the amended Rules had been completely revised to  bring them into line with the amended Staff Regulations  and with the Rules of the United Nations and other  Specialized Agencies,
(16) Mr, BAUGNIET (Belgium) was satisfied with  the explanation given by the Secretariat,
(17) The Commission decided to take note of  document 8C/ADM/ 217,
(18) Mr. FARR (Chief, Bureau of Personnel and  Management) recalled that under the new Regulation
9.1,1, adopted by the Commission at its previous  meeting, the Director-General was to set up a special  advisory board and to ask the President of the Inter-  national Court of Justice to nominate a chairman. In  order to provide for payment of that chairman, Mr.  Farr asked if the Commission would agree to add an  entry in paragraph 39 of Part IV of the Budget; the  entry would be $840 in 1955 and $840 in 1956 to  cover the chairman's honorarium and expenses,
(18) Mr, DE LOS SANTOS (Philippines) moved  adoption of the Secretariat's proposal.
(20) Adopted.  ITEM 9.3 OF REVISED AGENDA: LEGAL QUESTIONS  (document 8C/JUR/ 6)
(21) Mr. BAUGNIET (Rapporteur of the Lege! Com-  mittee) presented the first part of the Fifth Report of  the Legal Committee, referring to the interpretation  of Article V, paragraph 3, of the Constitution (re-  eligibility of members of the Executive Board).
(32) Mr. JUVIGNY (France) proposed that the inter-  pretation given by the Legal Committee be accepted.
(23) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) seconded the  proposal, which was adopted.
(24) Mr. BAUGNIET (Rapporteur) then presented the  second part of the Report, dealing with amendments  to the Rules of Procedure resulting from the adoption  of Russian as a working language of the General  - 639 -     COMMISSION V-24  Conference. He explained thai the point of the re-  vised title to R.le 53 was merely to enable the  language of the country where the General Conference  was being held to be used during that session.
(25) Mr. POMPEI (Italy), supported by Mr.  SOLDATOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics),  proposed that that part of the Report be adopted.
(26) Adopted.
(27) Mr. BAUGNIET (Rapporteur) then proceeded to  the third part of the Report: ''Amendments to the  Financial Regulations" (Draft Resolution submitted  by the Spanish delegation (document 8C/DR/90)), He  read out the suggested wording which the Legal Com-  mittee was submitting to the Administrative Commis-  sion for inclusion in its Report, saying that the  wording satisfied the Spanish delegate and had been  unanimously accepted by the Legal Committee.
(28) The CHAIRMAN asked 1f the Legal Committee  had foreseen at what stage there would be a change  in the Financial Regulations.
(29) Mr, BAUGNIET (Rapporteur) replied that a  proposal to that effect must be filed by a Member  State or by the Director-General in time for it to be  submitted to the General Conference at its next  session.
(30) The CHAIRMAN explained that the proposal was  that the Director-General should study the proposals  and submit a report to the General Conference at its  ninth session,
(31) Mr. FRAGA IRIBARNE (Spain), seconded by  Mr. COLOMBO (Argentina), moved adoption of the  third part of the report.
(32) Adopted,
(33) Mr. BAUGNIET (Rapporteur) submitted the  last part of the report: "Legal guarantees to be pro-  vided nationally for the staff of the Secretariat, a  draft recommendation submitted by the Italian dele-  gation (document 8C/DR/74) and amended by the  United States delegation (document 8C/DR/74(rev.)).  The Legal Committee had decided that a second  draft resolution, submitted by the United Kingdom  delegation (document 8C/DR/113), was not an  amendment to the Italian recommendation and should  be dealt with as a separate proposal.
(34) The CHAIRMAN hoped that the Commission  would accept the opinion of the Legal Committee that  the United Kingdom motion was not an amendment of   V-24  the Italian motion, as amended by the United States  delegation, but a separate motion, He woald put them  to the vote in the order in which they had been pres-  ented. He asked the delegates of Italy and the United  States of America whether they had any objection to  the change in the title,
(35) Mr. POMPEI (Italy) was happy to accept the  conclusions of the Legal Committee, which he found  reassuring; his motion was only a recommendation  to Member States and its object was moral rather  than legal, He agreed to the new title proposed by  the United Kingdom delegation, which left out the  ward "guarantees". He asked the Chairman to put  the Italian proposal to the vote, as amended by the  United States delegation.
(36) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) announced that  his delegation would withdraw its motion in favour of  that of Italy, as amended.
(37) The Italian resolution, as amended by the  delegation of the United States of America, was  adopted.
(38) In reply to Mr, C,W, CARTER (Canada), who  asked whether the Administrative Commission had  examined the Fourth Report of the Legal Committee,  ‘Mr. BAUGNIET (Rapporteur) explained that that re-  port had been passed directly to the General Commit-  tee and not to the Administrative Commission, which  had no call to discuss it; the report was solely  concerned with nominations,
(39) Mr. GOMEZ ROBLEDO (Mexico) asked that note  be taken of the Mexican delegation's wish to refrain  from participating in the decision taken on Draft  Resolution 8C/DR/74 (rev.).    - 640 -  ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  UNESCO JOINT STAFF PENSION FUND — REPORT BY THE  DIRECTOR-GENERAL (document 8C/ADM/17)
(40) The CHAIRMAN explained that the Commission  had two duties to perform in connexion with docu-  ment 8C/ADM/17; (1) to pass the draft resolution in  paragraph 4 on page 3; and (2) to elect three repre-  sentatives and three alternates to sit on the Unesco  Staff Pension Commitiee. As a result of consultation  with governments, the names of six Member Siates  with permanent representatives in Paris who wouldbe  willing to serve on the Committee had beenreceived,  Those States were: Australia, France, Italy, Japan,  Lebanon and the United States of America. Other  countries could, however, be proposed from the floor,
(41) Miss LAISE (United States of America), seconded  by Messrs. C, W, CARTER(Canada), ABEYWICKREMA  (Ceylon) and DE HOOG (Netherlands), proposed that  the first three countries in alphabetical order be  elected as members and the three others asalternates
(42) The proposal was adopted.
(43) Mr,C,W,CARTER(Canada), seconded by Messrs,  ABEYWICKREMA(Ceylon) and DE HOOG(Netherlandg  moved adoption of the resolution in paragraph 4 on page 3,
(44) Adopted.
(15) The CHAIRMAN announced that the Commission  had concluded its business, He requested it to meeton  Monday morning, 6 December, at10 a, m. to consider  its report, which would be distributed to members on  Monday morning at 9 a.m.  The meeting rose at 4.50 p.m.