VI-38  question of draft resolutions would normally come  up for discussion by the Executive Board in  connexion with the organization of the work of the  next session of the General Conference. If,  therefore, no action were taken by the Programme  and Budget Commission, he himself would bring it  to the attention of the Board,
(126) In reply to a question from Miss LAISE  ‘United States of America), the CHAIRMAN said  that the Appropriation Resolutioh would be  discussed at the next meeting of the Programme  ard Budget Commission and subsequently by the  Advisory Committee,    ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET
(127) Mr. HACQUAERT (Belgium) thought that the  changes made 1n the structure of the Executive Board  should be a reason for keeping the Committee in  being, since it represented the voice of the majority  in the Conference.
(128) He therefore proposed that the Committee be  maintained, and that its members be chosen, for  preference, from among the delegates of countries  not represented on the Executive Board.
(129) The CHAIRMAN said that the question would  be taken up at the next meeting of the Committee.  The meeting rose at 12,10 p.m,  THIRTY-EIGHTH MEETING
8 December 1954 at 5.30 p.m.  Chauman: Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Australia)  APPROPRIATION RESOLUTION FOR 1935 AND 1956 (document
(1) The CHAIRMAN, on behalf of the Committee,  paid a tribute to the work done by Mr. Rao in  producing the resolution and appropriation table.
(2) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Programme  and Budget) said that the resolution and table had  been drawn up as in previous years.  Paragraph 1 and the Annex
(3) The CHAIRMAN pointed out a typing error,  The figure 874, 861 opposite Total, Part I should  read 847,861 (English text only).
(4) Paragraph 1 and the Annex were adopted.
(5) Paragraph 3 was adopted.  Paragraph 4
(6) On a point being raised by Mr. LEE (United  States of America), there was some discussion  whether the figures given referred to assessments  or to total estimates,
(7) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) suggested  (and it was so decided) that the paragraph should  read: "Assessments in respect of 1955 shall he  based on the total estimates ($9, 491, 420), for that  year, and assessments in respect of 1956 shall be  based on the total estimates ($10, 508, 580) for  that year."
(8) Paragraphs 5 and 6 were adopted.    - 866 -  Paragraph 7
(9) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Programme  and Budget), in answer to a question by Mr, ARDEL.-  RAHMAN (Egypt), said that the Executive Board  would have to endorse any emergency transfers  the Director-General might make between  appropriation lines.
(10) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) said that, when the  Executive Board were informed of the details of the  transfers and the reasons for them, it might  disagree with the Director-General's action.
(11) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Programme  and Budget) said that the paragraph was a safety  clause, which the Director-General had never in  fact invoked, The Director-General would take the  action mentioned only when it was perfactly clear  that the Executive Board would not take exception  to it,
(12) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive  Board) said that the Director-General had ever  used the authority given him under the clause and  was very unlikely to do so. In practice, he cculd  always get i,0ld of the Chairman of the Board, who  would quickly send a circular letter to the  members, before action was taken,
(13) Paragraph 7 was adopted.
(14) Paragraphs 8 and 9 were adopted.
(15) The CHAIRMAN said that the resolution, as am-  ended, with the table, would be submitted to the Pro-  gramme and Budget Commission at its next meeting.   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  FUTURE OF THE ADVISORY COMMITTEE
(16) Tne Chairman said that the Committee had one  more point to discuss before its work could be  considered completed. That was whether or not  there should be an Advisory Committee at future  sessions.
(17) The question had been raised in the General  Committee. The Director-General had suggested  that the members of the Advisory Committee for  the ninth session should be designated at the eighth  session, and that the Executive Board should be  authorized to decide whether the Committee should  be convened before, or during, the ninth session.  The Director-General had made that suggestion  because, under a resolution submitted by the  Scandinavian countries, the Executive Board would  be called upon to consider how the ninth session  should be organized,
(18) Hence, as the new Executive Board would be  composed of government representatives, the  Committee might wish to consider the question and  make some recommendation to the Programme and  Budget Commission.
(19) Mr. JUNANKAR (India; thought that the  Committee might show a certain bias in favour of  its own continued existence.
(20) He did not, however, see what connexion there  was between the new procedure for election of the  Executive Buard and the rôle of the Advisory  Committee.
(21) It was true that the new Board would consist  of government representatives, who, in their  wisdom, might feel qualified to speak on behalf of  the other fifty States not represented on the Board.  But it did seem to him that there might be a call  for some other body, such as the Advisory  Committee, to express the views of those ratter  States.
(22) The Advisory Committee had wasted a good  deal of effort because it had lacked clear instructions  (:n connexion with the two budget levels, for  example). It would have been better if the  Conference had taken a decision on financial  limitations at the outset,
(23) Mr. HACQUAERT (Belgium) considered that  the continued existence of the Advisory Committee  was justified. particularly in view of the new  structure of the F .ecutive Board.
(24) As far as the Advisory Committee's work was  concerned, experience at the eighth session had  shown that the majority of points on which the  Committee had taken decisions had been thrown  open again for discussion and that at least some  of its recommendations had not been followed.
(25) Mr. Hacquaert maintained that the work of the  Advisory Committee had been done too late; to be  really useful, it shoulu have beer done before  document 8C/5 (proposed prograinme and budget)  was drawn up; it was obvious, however, that such  a procedure would not be desirable, for the  Advisory Committee would then become a sort of  second Executive Board.
(26) However, in view of the undoubted value of  some of its discussions (those on the preparation of  - 867 -     VI-38  future programmes, for example), the delegate of  Belgivm believed the existence of the Committee  to be justified, but its methods of work should be  revised.
(27) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairma of the Executive  Board) thought that only the Board was competent  to comment on the Director-General's proposals  before the Conference began. Once the Conference  had started, however, it was difficult for the Board  to work effectively, since its members were also  members of national delegations. Hence, during  the Conference, it would be useful to have an  advisory committee.
(28) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) said that, with  the Programme and Pudget Commission as now  organized, the Advisory Cominittee might well be  unnecessary. But the organization of the work of  the Frogramme and Budget Commission should be  thoroughly reviewed,
(29) The Advisory Committee could do useful work  if its membership were increased (say to 24 or 25),  and if the majority of its members represented  countries not represented on the Executive Board,  In addition, the Committee's report ought to be  ready before the Conference began, so that it could  form the basis for discussion in the Prcgramme  and Budget Commission,
(30) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) thought it was  difficult to decide whether the Committee was of  value, because it was not known what changes  might be made in the procedure for preparation uf  the programme. For example, how far would the  Board be respons:ble for drawing up the programme?
(31) Under the circumstances, all the Committee  could do would be to recommend that the possibility  be maintained of convening an advisory committee  to consider the programme and to submit a report.
(32) Mr, FRANCOIS (France) was of opinion that  meetings heid during the eighth session could be  divided into «wo types:
1. Meetings of the Programme and Budget  Commission type, where the discussion proceeded  article by article, almost farthing by farthing, as  if the Advisory Committee had not already cleared  the ground and made recommendations, moreover,  in the end, that discussion often led to completely  different, if not contradictory, decisions, Such  methods should certainly not continue, for they  resulted in an equal waste of money and effort.
2. Certain meetings of the Advisory Committee  at which the discussion, limited to a particular  problem and based on documents and specific  information, had made it possible to do useful work.
(33) It might therefore be concluded that the  Advisory Committee's work was not without value,  if it were considered to consist, primarily, of  expressing opinions on particular problems. If it  were also to deal usefully with wider questions and  their budgetary implications, other methods of  work would have to be envisaged.
(34) Mr. LEE (United States of America) agreed  that perhaps too little was known of future procedures   vi-38 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  for it to be possible to recommend terms of refer-  ence for the Committee, But the Committee might  agree that the Executive Board should study the  organization of the Conference and provide for an  advisory committee to serve when and if required.
(35) It had been sugge: ed that the Advisory  Con.mittee might be useful in so far as it represented  countries not represented on the Board. That point  should not be pressed too far, There were other  considerations to be borne in mind.
(36) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) said that the Committee  could not at that stage start discussing the organi-  zation of future sessions. The Executive Board  and the Secretariat should be left {ree to decide how  the organization of the Conference might be improved.
(37) Mr, COWFLL (United Kingdom) thought there  was a good deal to be said for reinforcing the  preliminary work on programme and budget done  before the Conference.
(38) At the eighth session, the advice offered by  the Committee had sometimes differed from that of  the Executive Board, and there had been some  duplication of effort. Would that situation arise  again with the new Boar?” It was difficult to say.
(39) There was certainly a need for an advisory  committee to deal with particular problems referred  to it by the Programme and Budget Commission.
(40) Possibly the Director-General's suggestion  had much to commend it, namely, that the Confer-  ence should set up an advisory committee, freely  chosen from among the 72 Member States of Unesco.  The Executive Board would then be free to convene  the committee before the Conference, if it saw fit  to do so.
(41) The CHAIRMAN thought that, 1f the advisory  committee were to be merely a body called upon to  ensue that the views of the countries not represented  on the Executive Board were made known, then a  case could be made for having a second body,  consisting of countries not represented on the  advisury committee, to check tic iatter's  conclusions, and so on ad absurdum.
(42) He was therefore not in favour of a second  examination of the programme by the Advisory  Committee, if the preliminary examination were’  made by the Executive Board,
(43) He agreed with the delegate of France that the  Committee had been most successful in dealing with  the particular protlems referred to it. But, since
1t was not possible to know in advance what those  problems would be, it would be unwise to oblige the  Board to convene the committee before the  Conference began,
(44) Hence he was inclined to agree with the  Director -General's suggestion that the Conference  should set up a committee which the Board would  convene as it thought fit,
(45) To show that there was often no real exchange  of views, Mr, FRANCOIS (France) recalled the  difference of opinion that had arisen at a meeting  of the Programme and Budget Commission between  the French delegation and the Director of the  Department of Education, the delegate of France  - 868 -     had made a speech, the Director of the Department  had made a speech, but the two parallel monologues  had resulted in nothing constructive. Yet that was  the type of question which should be thoroughly  discussed by a small group of competent people  fully aware of the importance of the subject.
(46) The CHAIRMAN said that the heads of depart-  ments would be obliged to attend meetings of the  Programme and Budget Commission, and it was  not easy for them to attend meetings of the  Advisory Committee held at the same time.
(47) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  stated that the Director-General was well aware  of the need for a complete revision of the  organization of the Conterence's work, He had no  solutions to propose at the moment but hoped that,  during the coming months, he would have an  opportunity to study the problem wi: members of  the Executive Board,
(48) With regard to the future of the Advisory  Committee, the Director-General had not wished  to express an opimon on the fundamental issues  involved. The only purpose of the proposal he had  made was to point to a procedure which, while  safeguarding both the sovereignty of the Gencral  Conference and the constitutional powers of the  Executive Board, would make it possible to get  out of a difficulty,
(49) Mr. Maheu then drew attention to two aspects  of the problem which might shed some light on the  question of the existence and responsibilities of  the advisory committee.
(50) Hitherto, the Executive Roard had been  responsible for presenting, together with its  comm-nts, a programme which had in fact been  prepared by the Director-General, It wouid be  desirable for the Executive Buard's comments to  be more detailed, and even expressed in stronger  terms, so that governments would be sure that the  draft programme and budget had been very closely  examined.
(51) There were also certain difficulties inherent  in the present nembership of the Frogramme and  Budget Commission, which in fact worked like  several parallel commissions. In the seats  reserved for each delegation, a succession of  specialists replaced one another and thus all hope  of a general view of the programme disag peared.
(52) !f, in considering the usefulness of the  Advisory Committee, it were assumed that the  Executive Board would in future make a more  thorough examination of the draft programme, and  that the methods of work of the Programme and  Budget Commission would Le revised in such a  way as to give it a general view, it would be seen  that the Committee was not so essential, except  for dealing with very special problems which might  be submitted to it, eithe‘ directly by the Executive  Board, or by the Programme and Budget  Commission as its work progressed,
(53) TL Committee would thus serve as a small  standing advisory committee whose various working  parties would be sub-committees.
(54) Mr, SEDES (France) considered that   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON  Mr. Maheu's remarks had done much to clarify the  question,
(55) It should not be forgotten that the programme  for 1957-58 would differ in many ways from the  present programme, For example, the study of  major projects would call for many committees of  specialists belonging to various disciplines, whose  activities would no longer be parallel, but would  have to be very closely co-urdinated.
(56) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) still felt that  there were many unknown factors to be taken into  consideration. The Committee could only recommend  that the question whether an advisory committee was  necessary should be referred to the Executive Board.
(57) Mr, JUNANKAR (Indiaj doubted whether there  were in fact so many unknown factors. The  Programme and Budget Commission had already  taken certain decisions on the procedure for  preparing future programmes.
(58) A detailed scrutiny of the programme by the  Conference itself was always necessary, It could  not be made by so large and unwieldy a body as the  Programme and Budget Commission, The  Commission could only lay down general policy,  leaving the Advisory Committee to examine points  of detail.
(59) If the Executive Board in its new form were  really responsible to Unesco as a whole, and really  desirous of giving due weight to the views of all  Member States, then there was no reason why its  report on the programme should be different, in  broad outline, from the report by the Programme  and Budget Commission.
(60) M;. LEE (United States of America) queried  whether it was possible for the Conference to adopt  a resolution authorizing the Boara to lay down  procedure for the next session. Could the Board  be authorized to appoint an advisory committee ?
(61) The CHAIRMAN observed that the Conference  would have to give special instructions if the Board  were to be allowed to elect such a body.
(62) Mr. MAHEU (Assictant Director-General)  recalled that, under the Constitution, the Executive  Board was responsible for drawing up the agenda of  the General Conference. but it could not decide  upon the membership of a committee, or appoint  its members.
(63) It was for that reason that the Director-General  had made his proposal concerning procedure, with  the idea that the General Conference, in setting up  an advisory committee, would show that it agreed  PROGRAMME AND     BUDGET VI-38  on the principle, while leaving it to the Executive  Board to define the committee's terms of reference  and decide when to convene it,
(64) The CHAIRMAN said that little was known  about what the Board would propose for the  reorganization of the Conference. The best course  would be for the Conference to elect an advisory  committee and leave the Board to dccide when it  should be convened.  (F5) Mr, FRANCOIS (France) proposed the  closure of the debate.
(66) Firstly, the Programme and Budget  Commission was à necessary evil, its methods  of work would have to be improved if scientisis,  teachers, men of letters and specialists in all  branches were to feel that they were doing useful  and interesting work. Secondly, the advisory  committee could be an asset, as experience had  proved, 1f 1t remained a strictly advisory body.
(67) The delegate of France therefore suggested  that the Committee, taking account of what he had  Just said, should do no more than make very  general recommendations, thus in fact leaving  it to others to deal with the fundamental 1ssues
(68) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  had a strong impression that the Committee was  about to reach agreement and that it would be  better to take a decision forthwith,
(69) Mr. LEE (United States of America) moved  that the Committee recommend the Conference to  elect un advisory committee of x members (the  number to be decided on by the Programme and  Budget Commission), to be convened at such  times, and for such pu. p7SP3 as might be  specified by the Executive Board.
(70) Mr, BOW (Canada) seconded.
(71) His delegation was not in favour of the  Executive Board being called on to make a detailed  examination of the programme. It had been  suggested that the sessions of ihe Board were  already too long and too many.
(72) Similarly, he was not in favour of such an  examination being made by the Programme and  Budget Commission, which was too large for  such a task.
(73) The Umted States motion was adoptad.
(74) After the usual expressions of than<s the  meeting rose at 7,15 p.m.