6 December 1951 at 3.45 p.m.  President: Mr. ZAVALA MUNIZ (Uruguay)  CONTENTS  Report by the Credentials Committee . . . . . ..... .. 184  Consideration and adoption of arnendments to Rules 88 and 89  of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference and to  Rules 13, 14 and 17 of the Rules for the Conduct of Elections  by Secret Ballot (documents 8C/JUR/S, 8C/JUR/5 Corri-  gendum and 8C/DIV/133) . . .  Y.EPORT BY THE CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE
(1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Span:sh):  I call upon Mr. Bernal Jimenez, Chairman of the  Credentials Committee.
(2) Mr. BERNAL JIMENEZ (Colombia) (Chairman  of the Credentials Comrnittee) (Translation from the  Spanish): Mr. Presidert, since the oral statement  made by the Chairman of the Credentials Committee  at the eleventh plenary meeting of the General Con-  ference, on 22 November 1954, credentials have been  received for the Luxembourg delegation which are in  accordance with the provisions of Rule 22 of the Rules  of Procedure of the General Conference. The Gen-  eral Conference is, therefor:, recommended to  regard the credentials of this Member State as fully  in order, and to admit the Luxembourg delegation tr  the eighth session of the General Conference.
(3) A cable has also been received, accrediting a  Peruvian delegate. It is recommended that this cable  be regarded, according to the customary practice, as  provisionally accrediting that delegate, and that the  Peruvian representative be admitted to the present  session of the General Conference, subject to the  later submission of credentials in due form.
(4) For the rest, the Credentials Committee finds  that all the delegates attending the General Confer-  ence are now entitled to vote at »he forthcoming  elections,
(5) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I put to the meeting the report just submitted by the  Chairman of the Credentials Committee regarding  the credentials of Luxembourg and Peru.
(6) Approved.
(7) The delegates of Luxembourg and Peru are thus  admitted to the General Conference, subject to the  - 184 -     conditions set forth by the Chairman of the Committee.  CONSIDERATION AND ADOPTION OF AMENDMENTS TO RULES
88 AND 89 OF THE RULES OF PROCEDURE OF THE GENERAL  CONFERENCE AND TO RULES 13, 14 AND 17 OF THE RULES  FOR THE CONDUCT OF ELECTIONS BY SECRET BALLOT  (documents 8C/JUR/S, 8C/JUR/5 Corr. and 8C/DIV/133)
(8) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish}:  I call on Mr. Saba, the Legal Adviser, to inake a  statement regarding the majority required for the  election of the members of the Executive Board, the  validity of ballot papers containing fewer names  than there are persons to be elected, and the eligi-  bility of candidates whose names are not included in
1isy drawn up by the Nominations Committee (docu-  ments 8C/JUR/5 and 8C/JUR/5 Corr. ).
(9) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) (Translation from  the French): The Legal Committee was asked by  the General Committee for an opinion on the three  following questions concerning the election of mem-  bers of the Executive Board:  Majority required for the election of members of  the Executive Board;  Validity of ballot papers which contain fewer  names than there are persons to be elected;  Eligibility of candidates not included in the list  prepared by the Nominations Committee.
(10) The Legal Committee has considered these  questions and submitted a report to the General  Committee, which has decided to put that report  before the General Conference with a view to the  adoption of certain amendments which the Legal  Committee considers to be necessary. With regard  to the first point - the majority required for the  election of members of the Executive Board - there  was found to be a discrepancy between Art:cle IV,  paragraph 8, sub-paragraph (a) of the Constitution   PLENARY  and Rule 89 of the Rules of Procedure of the General  Conference. The Constitution states that, except in  cases where a two-thirds majority is required, the  General Conference shall make its decisions by a  simple majority - half plus one of the votes record-  ed - whereas Rule 89 of the Rules of Procedure  states that when a second vote is taken candidates  who obtain pluralities shall be el:cted. In other  words, according to the Rules of Procedure, it  would be possible for a candidate to be elected by a  number of votes which, though higher than the rum-  ber obtained by any other candidate, was less than  half plus one of the actual votes recorded. Absten-  tions, ! must remind you, do not count.
(11) The Legal Committee took the view that proce-  dure should be governed solely by the provisions of  the Constitution, that being the authcrititive source  and the document which the General Conference  should always follow. The Committee felt, there-  fore, that the Rules of Procedure should be amended,  and consequently wishes to submit the following  resolution to the General Conference for approval:  "The General Conference  I. Decides to substitute the following for Rules
88 and 89 of the Rules of Procedure of the General  Conference:  Rule 88 - Election of a single person  When a single elective place is to be filled and no  candidate obtains in the first ballot the majority  required, additional ballots shall be taken which  shall be restricted to the two candidates obtaining  the largest number of votes. If in the third ballot  the votes are equally divided, the President shall  decide between the candidates by drawing lots.  Rule 89 - Election of two or more persons  When two or more elective places are to be filled  at one time under the same conditions, those candi-  dates obtaining in the first ballot the majority  required shall be elected. If the number of candi-  dates obtaining such majority is less than the number  of places to be filled, there shall be additional  ballots to fill the remaining places, the voting being  restricted to the cardidates obtaining the greatest  number of votes in the previous ballot, to a number  not more than twice the places remaining to be  filled."
(12) That is the actual wording used in the Rules of  Procedure of the General Assembly of the United  Nations.  {13) The second part of the Legal Committee's  proposal, embodied in the same resolution, runs  as follows:  "II, Decides to substitute the following for the  last sentence of Rule 17 of the Rules for the Conduct  of Elections by Secret Ballot, adopted by the General  Conference at its sixth session:  Half plus one of the votes recorded shall constitute  the majority required under Article IV. 8 (a) of the  Constitution and Rules 88 and 88 of the Rules of  Procedure of the General Conference.”  :14) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  it is fcr the Conference to decide whether it wishes  - 185 -     MEETINGS 11-14  to discuss the Legal Adviser's report point by point,  or to hear it right through. I suggest that it be  taken point by point, for the sake of clarity. If the  Conference has no objection, we will adopt that  course, In that case, we will now consider part]  of the report presented by the Legal Adviser,
(15) Part I of the report, as amended by document
8C/JUR/5 Corr., was approved unanimously.
(18) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) (Translation from  the French): The second question relates to the  validity of ballot papers containing fewer names  than there are persons to be elected. The Legal  Committee found that, under Rule 14 of the Rules  for the Conduct of Elections by Secret Ballot
(8C/DIV/133), ballot papers containing the same  number of names as there are persons to be elected,  or fewer names, shall be valid. However, the  Committee took the view that this provision should  be amended. It accordingly proposes the following  resolution for adoption by the General Conference:  "The General Conference,  Decides to amend as follows, Rules 13 and 14 of  the Rules for the Conduct of Elections by Secret  Ballot:  Rule 13:  After paragraph (b), add the following:  (c) Ballot papers on which the name of any one  candidate appears more than once;  (d) Ballot papers on which there are fewer names  than there are persons to be elected”.
(17) ! should remind you that Rule 13 begins with  the words:  "The following shall be considered invalid". The  suggestion now made to the Conference is, therefore,  that ballot papers on which the name of any one  candidate appears more than once, or on which  there are fewer names than there are persons to be  elected, shall be considered invalid.
(18) The draft resolution now submitted to you con-  tinues as follows:  "Delete Rule 14.  Renumber Rules 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20 and 21  accordingly".
(19) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Span-  ish): 1 call upon the delegate of Guatemala,
(20) Mr. MENDOZA (Guatemala) (Translation  from the Spanish): The delegation of Guatemala  does not support the insertion of clause (d),suggest-  ed by the Legal Committee as an amendment to  Rule 13, Under the terms of this amendment, the  number of names on the ballot paper must exactly  correspond to the number of seats to be filled.
(21) My delegation objects to this amendment,  because it is contrary to the parliamentary proce-  dure generally adopted in international organizations.  No delegation can be compelled to vote for the full  number of candidates. That is an optional matter,  for the decision of each individual delegation.
(22) Any delegation, in any international organization,  is entitled to vote for wnatever number of candirlates  it may think fit, always provided that it does not
1-14 PLENARY  exceed the number of seats vacant; but in no circum-  stances can any delegation be forced to vote for the  entire number of vacant seats. Cases might arise in  which delegations wished to vote for some candidates  and not for others.
(23) If clause (d) were accepted as an amendment,  as proposed by the Legal Committee, it might lead  us into serious difficulties, now or at some future  time. For instance, should a delegaticn, for some  reason, not wish to vote for a particular candidate  or candidates, it would be forced to abstain from  voting altogether. The delegations would thus be  rompelled to choose between abstaining altogether,  or voting tou. cl! the candidates, including those  whom, for some reason, they do not approve or  wish to support. I feel that the Legal Committee's  proposal, while undoubtedly made with the best of  intentions, seriously restricts the delegations’  right to vote as they judge fit.
(24) Moreover, it might happen, even in the forth-  coming ballot, that some of the candidates withdrew,  so that only 22 would be left. If this rule were  adopted, every delegation would then be forced,  willy-nilly, to vote for all the candidates. This  restricts freedom of expression and freedom of  voting, the sovereign right of each delegation to  vote for the candidates it prefers or considers most  suitable. My delegation therefore considers that the  existing rule should not be amended in the manner  suggested. And I should like to ask beforehand that  this resolution be put to the vote, paragraph by para-  graph, and that clause (d) be the subject of a separate  vote, because, for the reasons I have given, the  delegation of Guatemala will vote against it.
(25) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call upon the Chairman of the Legal Committee.
(26) Mr. AWAD (Egypt) (Chairman of the Legal  Committee): With regard to what was said by the  delegate of Guatemala this matter was very care-  fully debated and considered in the Legal Committee.  It was taken into account that the right of delegates  to put any number of names, no matter how few,  might possibly be abused and that this would give  undue weight to certain candidates, giving them a  much greater chance and thus depriving others of  the same chance. After all, the number of candid-  ates is something like double the number of seats  to be filled, and it should surely be possible for any  voter to choose half of the names in front of him.
(27) Thus the Legal Committee went deliberately  into the question and decided that there would be  considerable abuge if delegates were not required  to give the exact number of candidates on their  ballot sheet.
(28) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish),  I call upon the delegate of Switzerland.
(28) Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland) (Translation  from the French): The Swiss delegation supports  the proposal made by the delegation of Guatemala.  So far as we know, the procedure just suggested by  tne Legal Committee is not followed ir any demo-  cratic system of balloting; we know of no precedent  for it, and we therefore support the Guatemalan  - 186 -     MEETINGS  delegation in asking for the deletion of the clause  which would compel the delegations to record a  number of votes equal to the number of seats to  be filled.
(30) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Span-  ish): If no one wishes to speak, we will proceed  to vote, paragraph by paragraph. À vote will first  be taken on the paragraphs which have not given  rise to discussion.
(31) I call upon the Legal Adviser.
(32) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) (Translation from  the French): I should like to make two small ob-  servations on points to which delegations have  called my attention.
(33} The first of these concerns the proposed  wocding of Rule 13 of the Rules for the Conduct of  Elections by Secret Ballot, which refers to "ballot  papers on which there are fewer names than there  are persons to be elected”. It has been pointed out  to me that the words ''on which there are fewer  names' are too vague, and that the words "of can-  didates'' should be added, to ensure that names  other than those of candidates shall not be entered  in order to bring the total up to 22, This is a per-  tinent comment.
(34) My second observation concerns the proposed  text of Rule 17. This states that "Half plus one of  the votes recorded shall constitute the majority  required under Article IV. 8 (a) of the Constitution  and Rules 88 and 89 of the Rules of Procedure of  the General Conference”. Owing to a typographical  error in the Corrigendum, this text is included in  the second part of the report of the Legal Commit-  tee, whereas in reality it belongs to the first part.  I mentioned this when dealing with the first point,  and you have already approved it.
(35) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Span-  ish): I shall now tzke a vote on the proposals of the  Legal Committee, with the exception of clause (d),  to which the Guatemalan delegation, seconded by  the Swiss delegation, objects,
(36) Approved unanimously.
(37) A vote was then taken on clause (d) which was  adopted by 27 votes to 24,‘ with 3 abstentions.
(38) The PRESIDENT (‘Translation from the Span-  ish): I call upon the Legal Adviser.
(38) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) (Translation from  the French): The third question submitted to the  Legal Committee concerns the eligibility of candi-  dates not included in the list prepared by the Nomi-  nations Committee. In this connexion, the Commit-  tee noted that, an a result of the amendment made  by the General Conference, at its present session,  to Rule 95 of its Rules of Procedure, the provision  that only candidates nominated either by the Nomi-  nations Commitee or by two delegations, may  stand for election, is annulled.
(40) The Comiraittee takes the view that any nomi-  nation put forvard by a government in accordance  with the new text of Article 95 is valid, even if the   PLENARY MEETINGS 1-15  The report you have just heard is now open  to debate. If no one wishes to speak, I shall take  a vote on the interpretation proposed by the Legal  candidate's name does not appear in the list submit-  ted to the General Conference by the Nominations  Committee. It ais: ~onsiders that it is in order to  submit a nomination up to the time when the bailot Adviser.  is opened in the General Conference. (43) Will those in favour please signify their
(41) This last part of the report, Mr. President, approval?  does not entail any resolution; it is merely an  opinion expressed by the Legal Committee, which (44) Adopted.  the General Confere-ce is free to accept or to reject.   (42) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish): The meeting rose at 4.20 p.m.  FIFTEENTH PLENARY MEETING
7 December 1954 at 4 p.m.  President: Mr. ZAVALA MUNIZ (Uruguay)  CONTENTS  Report of the Nominations Committee on the election of mem-  bers of the Executive Board . . . . . . ... .. ee... 187  Decision on the place of the Ninth Session of the General Con-  ference, on the report of the Executive Board (document
8C/6)........ Pee eee Che eee 0 0 eee. 189  Election of 22 members of the Executive Board (documents
8C/DIV/145, 8C/DIV/133) ... .. 188 eee 0 1 006 . 194  REPORT OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE ON THE of Ecuador, 64 votes; 4. Mr. Spilhaus of the  ELECTION OF MEMBERS OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD United States of America, 64 votes; 5, Mr. Ferrara  Marino of Cuba, 62 votes; 6. Mr. Laugier of
(1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish}: France, 62 votes; 7. Mr. Sharif of Pakistan, 62  I call upon the Chairman of the Nominations Commit- votes; 8. Mr. Awad of Egypt, 61 votes; 9. Mr,  tee. Berredo Carneiro of Brazil, 61 votes; 10. Mr.  Mudaliar of India, 60 votes; 11. Sir Ben Bowen
(2) Mr. KABIR (India) (Chairman of the Nominations Thomas of the United Kingdom, 60 votes; 12. Mr.  Committee): Mr. President and fellow delegates: | Veronese of Italy, 58 votes; 13. Mr. Haguiwara  present to you the report of the Nominations Commit- of Japan, 55 votes; 14. Mr. Estelrich of Spain,  tee. 54 votes; 15. Mgr Maroun of Lebanon, 53 votes:
(3) At the meeting held this morning it was found 16. Mr, Massaquoi of Liberia, 53 votes; 17. Mrs.  that the number of Member States entitled to vote Schlueter-Hermkes of Germany, 51 votes; 18. Mr.  was 72. Four were absent. Of the votes cast one Bender of the Netherlands, 48 votes; 19. Mr.  was an abstention and one was invalld; there were Nielsen of Denmark, 44 votes; 20, Mr. Solodov-  therefore 66 valid votes recorded; consequently, nikov of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, 42  the number of votes constituting the required majority votes; 21. Mr. Johannes sf Indonesia, 41 votes;  was 34, 22. Mr. Malakul of Thailand, 41 votes.
(4) After the ballot was counted the Nominations (5) These are the twenty-two recommendations.  Committee put forward the following 22 candidates In addition, there are Mr. Piaget of Switzerland,  as persons who have the recommendations of the who secured 39 votes, and Mrs. Rodriguez of the  Committee. In addition, two more candidates se- Philippines, with 35 votes  cured the required number of votes: (6) The Nominations Committee also wanted it to
1. Mr. Raadi of Iran, 65 votes; 2. Mr. Secco be brought to the notice of the Conference that the  Ellauri of Uruguay, 64 votes; 3. Mr. Martinez Cobo Conference might decide on the appropriate procedure    - 187 -