10 December 1954 at 4.45 p.m.  President: Mr. ZAVALA MUNIZ (Urugay)  CONTENTS  Organization of work of the Ninth Session of the General Con-  EIGHTEENTH PLENARY MEETING  ference (documents 8C/DR/118, 119 and 120). . 224  Tribute to Juana de Ibarbourou .. . . eee ace aes 226  International petition in favour of Esperanto (document
8C/DR/116). ....... 00 0 0 0 6000 0 . ... 228  Commemoration of the Universal Declaration. ot Human  Rights 2.2 200 0 0 2 i i 0 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 6 aon 228  Consideration and adoption of the Report of the Nominat:ons  Committee (document 8C/NOM/41). ...... s. . 229  Vote of thanks by the General Conference to the Uruguayan  Government (document 8C/DR/125). sss bee ss. 230  Closing speeches 4.0 0. 000000 0 000 0 sas + 0 + 0e + 233  ORGANIZATION Oi" WORK OF THE NINTH SESSION OF THE  GENERAL CONFER ENCE (documents 8C/DR/118,119 and 129)
(1) The PRESLJENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call upon the delegate of Denmark.
(2) Mr. NIELSE'N (Denmark): Mr. President, it is  the impression ¢f a good many delegations that the  working methods of our General Conference have not  proved altogether satisfactory. I may remind you  that the Rapporteur of the Programme and Budget  Commission undelined the fact in his speech this  very morning. It is not my intention to suggest that  we should at this present Conference debate or go  into the details of «ll these difficulties. Let me only  point out one single fact: if we try to calculate the  net amount, and I underline, the net amount of time  which the Programmie Commission has been able to  devote to the discussions of the particular items of  the programme, we arrive at something less than  one week in a four-weeks' Conference, Many  delegations feel that vre might have gone into more  detail if we had had the time to do so, instead of  being under the pressure of having to reach the  deadline by means of fatiguing night meetings.
(3) This is no reproach to our able Chairinan of the  Programme Commission, to whose patience we have  all paid tribute. Nor do we propose that we should,  at this session start discussing how the situation  might be improved, although some means raight  very well be suggested. This because - and it is a  point I want to stress - we see a danger of the  General Conference being thwarted at the last  moment by innumerable draft resolutions to which it    - 224 -  cannot devote the ..ecessary study. That might  bring with it haphazard decisions which may, in  some cases, well bind the hands of the Director-  General and the Executive Board in a manner not  always to be foreseen, and which might well make  their work more difficult in the coming two-year  period, It is quite natural that some such revision  of working methods should become necessary at e  time when the number of Member States is about  double the number in Unesco's first years, always  assuming that we do not want to extend the length  of sessions, That is why a group of Scandinavian  delegations, on the one hand, and that of the United  Kingdom, on the other, put forward resolutions  earlier in the Conference, proposing that the  Executive Board, together with the Director-  General, be invited to go into these matters and to  make them an object of their study in the coming  two-year period.
(4) As you know, these different draft resolutions  have now been combined in one: DR/128, which  replaces those numbered 118 and 119.
(5) I take great pleasure in moving the adoption of  DR/129,
(8) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Spanish): I call on the delegate of France.
(7) Mr. LAUGIER (France) (Translation from the  French): Mr. President, fellow delegates: France  whole-heartedly supports the draft resolution now  before you, The French delegation hopes  that the revision carried out by the Executive  Board will be as thorough, far-reaching and   PLENARY  uphampered 28 could possibly be imagined.
(8) Revision of the working methods of the General  Conference: what exactly does that mean? It does  not mean deciding whether speeches shall be limited  to two or three minutes in committees, commissions  or plenary meetings, or whether the President  should have beside him a red light, a green light or  a bell to warn speakers, 1 have seen the Executive  Board, which has already gone thoroughly into these  matters, decide whether or not a blackboard showing  the times of meetings should be placed at the entrance  to the Conference building, or whether it was enough  for the times to be announced in the Journal, That  is not what revision of working methods means, It  really means reconsidering the whole question of  how far the Conference should check the work done  by the Secretariat in preparing and implementing  the programme and budget, There must be no more  of those debates - depressing, to say the least - in  which 72 governments, after the maiter has already  been discussed by the Commission of the Executive  Board, by the Executive Board itself and by the  Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget,  decide whether, in order to carry out a project, a  mission of experts should be sent on one short  journey, two medium-length journeys or one long  journey. All thai, I repeat, should be reconsidered  with the following idea in mind: the executive powers  of the Secretariat should be extended, Few delegates,
1 believe, have criticized the Secretariat more  violently than I, but I know its work, often unnoticed,  its good faith and its devotion to Unesco's 1ims. We  should therefore trust the Secretariat; Unesco will  not function efficiently unless we allow the Secretariat  greater freedom, both in preparing and executing  the programme.
(8) How can this be done? The Conference should  first discuss the Organization's policy at a high level;  it should then divide up the money available into large  sections or chapters and, within those limits, during  the two-year period, the Secretariat, supervised by  an Executive Board henceforth closely controlled by  the governments represented at the General Confer-  ence, would be free to steer the Unesco ship along  a broad river like the Rio de la Plata, and not along  a small stream, hemmed in by the banks of detailed  budgetary decisions taken by the General Conference.
(10) Moreover, we have examples before us. Some  of the big Specialized Agencies vote their budgets in  large sections in less than a week, thus demonstrating  their confidence in their secretariats. It is in this  spirit that the French delegation will vote for the  resolution now before you.
(11) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):
1 call upon the delegate of the German Federal  Republic,
(12) Mr. BERGSTRAESSER (German Federal  Republic): Mr. President, fellow delegates, I am  asked to support, in the name »f the German  delegation, the proposal contained in DR/129. I  think that this proposal, supported by the delegates  of Denmark and France, carries even more weight  than other suggestions and criticisms which have  been made in private and in public during this  Conference, for it is a constructive suggestion, We  - 225 -     MEETINGS 1-18  admire the spirit of collaboration which has  governed the deliberations of this Conference, We  consider that this shared cxperience in designing  and deciding upon practical undertakings in the  realm of education, science and culture constitutes  a step in its own right towards international  understanding and co-operation. However, we feel  that the General Conference, the Executive Board  and the Secretariat might contemplate for the  future, and in particular for the next General  Conference, additional means by which this world  organization could exercise its influence, its  counsel and its authority. We believe that the  peoples themselves look at Unesco as at a unique  world forum. It is here that world problems may  come up for international debate, problems of  intellectual and spiritual significance on the cuitural  plane, problems the discussion of which will niean  much even in the preparation of comn.on action in  the future, and it is in this sense that we believe in  a free discussion of the philosophic bases of  Unesco's undertakings, We may also add to what  has been said by the delegates of France aid  Denmark some suggestions both to the Secretariat  and to the Executive Board, We hope that these  agencies will consider ways in which, at the ninth  seasion of the Genera' Conference, discussions can  be arranged on questions relevant to the thinking of  all of us and fundamental to the practical work of  Unesco; and on quertions which, because they are  of universal character, are not likely to be debated  in any other organization with an equally stimulating  effect, or with the same impact on thought all the  world over,
(13) I will refrain from making any more detailed  suggestions. Wr: shall hope to submit proposals in  collaboration with any National Commission which  wants to share in this thinking, to the Executive  Board and to the Secretariat, but we think that  panel discussions, a discussion, for instance, of  the main points cf similarity and difference between  Indian and Occidental thought, might be a theme  appropriate for the Conference to be held in New  Delhi. Unesco, through all its departments and  work projects, devotes itself to furthering practically  our mutual knowledge of each other's cultures, and  to promoting international understanding on the  cultural plane, A thorough discussion here during  the General Conference of the philosophic bases  and methods of this understanding should produce  substantial results. It will give all delegates added  insight into the work done or to be done by Unesco  in the coming years, and into the work to be done  by those whom Unesco at this General Conference  has supported by its decisions, Such a discussion  may constitute of itself a promising step, preliminary  to practical action, and thereby help keep alive the  hopes of the peoples of the world in Unesco. The  people believe that Unesco is supposed to be the  pioneer of community thinking, and they expect  from this forum here intellectual and spiritual  leadership. We are happy to support the resolution,  because it testifies to tie fact that very many among  us see in it a unique chance for Unesco to do this  pioneer work of stimulating mutual respect, and  of thinking ahead in terms of the cultural concerns  of mankind.   I-18 PLENARY
(14) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  If no delegate wishes to speak, a vote will be taken,
(15) The draft resolution was approved unanimously.  TRIBUTE TO JUANA DE !BARBOU ROU  (At this point Senora Juana de Ibarbourou entered  the hall. )
(16) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call upon Mr, Jaramillo Arango, the delegate of  Colombia,
(17) Mr, JARAMILLO ARANGO (Colombia)  (Translation from the Spanish): Mr. President,  Senora Juana de Ibarbourou, ladies and gentlemen:  this eighth session of the General Conference of the  United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural  Organization has appropriately decided to pause in  its arduous labour in order to pay a well-deserved  tribute to the distinguished Uruguayan poetess Juana  de Ibarbourou,
(18) Poetry is in-general one of the loftiest pursuits  ol the human mind, requiring the exercise of the  rnost varied talents. To perceive and capture the  emotions of nature, the feelings of love, the ecstasy  of the mystic, the fire of passion, the harmony of  music, the cadence, the significance and colour of  words, iz among the most astonishing of human  achievements, Verse is thus meet to express  thought with singular clarity and to preserve and  give lasting life to the production of genius,
(19) The works of Juana de Ibarbourou or Juana of  America, as she is fittingly called, occupy an  outstanding place in the literature of the Spanish  language. Her poems have awakened a wide  response among the American peoples and are  recited in other continents and other languages, for  there is something vital in their true poetry that  transcends the limits of form and fills the spirit,  irrespective of time or latitude,
(20) When, therefore, Unesco met in this city of  Montevideo, in this country of Uruguay where  culture flourishes, where the intellect finds a  congenial atmosphere and the air of freedom  breathes, this nation-wide Confe: ence - perhaps the  largest at which sovereign States have been  represented - marked the presence here of our  illustrious poetess and desired to pay her homage.  Honouring the most eminent of its childrer also  means honouring the land that gave them birth, for  it has been recognized since Greek and Roman  times that poets largely personify the finest qualities  of their native land, Therefore, Señora, this well-  deserved tribute and welcome, though it may add  nothing to your fame, nevertheless gives the  delegates who approved it the satisfuction of  expressing their gratitude in a fitting manner, May  I also, although this may seem superfluous, reiterate  in the name of the Colombian delegation here present,  our great admiration for your work.
(21) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Spanish): I call upon Mr. Barrenechea Pino,  the delegate of Chile.    MEETINGS
(22) Mr. BARRENECHEA P'NO (Chile)  (Translation from the Spanish): Mr, President,  fellow delegates, Señora: the firest sentiments so  far expressed at this great Conference were voiced  by the distinguished Colombian delegation when they  suggested paying this tribute to Juana de Ibarbourou,  that precious Uruguayan diariond in the crown of  Spanish Ameria,  {23) In this same place, at another memorable  moment in Ler life, her praises were sung by a  Mexican, Alfonso Reyes, when he proclaimed her  Juana de América, Today it is an assembly of  the intellect, a refined élite of the world, that  makes Juana de América a part of our universal  inheritance, confirming her renown and bestowing  on her gifted poetry a laurel of pure gold.
(24) We know well that fame does not spoil her,  that her triumphs are to her as the triumphs of a  stranger and that only in creative work does she  find the reason for her existence and the possibility  of happiness. That was how her great poetic  outpur was achieved, from the Barca de Caronte to  Serenidad, without any seeking after fame, for she  knew, as all rare souls know, that fame is  autonomous and chooses its elect only from those  who are worthy.
(25) But today's glory is shared by all Latin  America, for this universal recognition of her  worth as an artist and a woman, illumines this  whole part of the earth's face and thereby Juana de  Ibarbourou is made one again with the original  fount of her poetry and gives back with interest to  her American land the glory it had thought to grant  to her. Through the transparent genius of this  woman can be seen the new America, ever present  in her poetry, with its verdant strength, its golden  health and shimmering youth.
(26) In this America of hers, Juana de Ibarbourou  has felt at one with the earth itself and has even  seen the flowering of her hands. Here in her own  country her poetry, in emulation of Uruguay itself,  grew up simple end natural as the winds that blow  across the pampas towards the wide and ever clear  horizons of freedom, Here in this country she  watered the hands she now raises aloft, seeking  the secret root of light, Aware of the transitoriness  of life, she accepts the sorrows that come like  great gusts of wind from the irrecoverable past,  But Juana de Ibarbourou did not waste her youth,  she eternalized it in her verse: youth become  poetry is the burden of her song; her art is a  fountain of Castalia and this is the source of its  magic and its true wonder.‘
(27) But today, the great poetess becomes as it  were a symbol, for by this mark of respect the  cultural world exalts in her person the value of  the intellect, and in the anxious hours of this world  of fear we, in the land of Rod, can think more  optimistically about the triumph of Ariel,
(28) Juana d: Ibarbourou: we who know you  intimately, have heard that you, like Darlo,  loved your hands and were glad that the artist  found them dovelike.
(20) That makes you, today, even more of a symbol,  because the cultural world that is paying you tribute  has met here, in this concourse of races and nations,  to seek f-7 human understanding and peace.  - 228 -   PLENARY
(30) In your fine city, along the beaches of the Rio  de la Plata, ! see your hands lifted up like doves,  as if in prayer that the political world may hear  the voice for peace of the cultural world which  honours you today,
(31) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Span’sh):  I call upon Mr. Hope, delegate of the United States  of America,
(32) Mr, HOPE (United States of America): Mr.  President, fellow delegates and the distinguished  poet in our presence. It is in every sense appropri-  ate that in the name of the United Nations Educational,  Scientific and Cultural Organization we should offer  tribute to Juana de Ibarbourou, We who are of the  Western Hemisphere could not think of leaving the  home of Juana de América without showing her once  more, although she knows it well, that she lives in  the thoughts ani hearts of our nation as a bright and  gracious presence, her work as an indispensable  element in the living literature of our international  community. In my country her poems are being  more and more widely published and appreciated.  They are increasingly known to the children of the  United States of America, through their school  books, and to our intellectuals and the general  public through anthologies and in the great periodicals  that circulate so widely among us. When in 1953  the Union of American Women procleimed her  Woman of the Americas, we responded to their  inspiration with special pleasure, because it seemed  to us that the work of Juana de Ibarbourou in its  radiance, hopefulness and youthful zest gives  authentic expression to something that is in the very  nature of the new world, But she belongs to all  peoples everywhere who value the life of the spirit,  and it is with that consciousness that we join in  Unesco's Act of Homage, Here indeed, is ground  for mutual understanding, Here, as with one voice  we praise and thank a great poet, we are reminded  again of the meaning and value of our harmonious  collaboration and find fresh confidence in our  mission.
(33) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call upon Senora Juana de Ibarbourou.
(34) Mrs, DE IBARBOUROU (Translation from the  Spanish): Mr, President, Mr. Director-General,  delegates, Dr. Jaramillo Arango, the Colombian  Minister, Dr. Julio Barrenechea, Mr. Henry Hope,  Colombians, ladies and gentlemen. For the second  time in my life I come to the Legislative Palace of  my country, to receive an undeserved honour which  transports me with emotion, gratitude and wonder.  For the second time I tread this solemn and  memorable Salon de los Pasos Perdidos as if  hypnotized and walking in a dream. I am encom-  passed by tbe world. A humble woman who writes  poems is today the centre of a throng of men and  women magnificently representative of universal  culture. And for no other reason than that I write  poems. This is the revenge of the rose over the  golden menhir. The august shade of Plato, though  perchance irascible and doubting, may come to our  aid today. But that cannot disturb my dream, nor  - 227 -     MEETINGS 1-18  today's happiness, 1 receive this honour more for  my country than for myself, for it is certain | was  chosen that my country might be honoured through  one of the Uruguayan women whose dreams and  longings are most strongly fixed on the brotherhood  of all the nations of the world, I receive it also in  the name of my literary colleagues, the writers  who make up our largest guild, the AUDE, and  among whom are many far more deserving than I  to receive this signal mark of honour.
(35) Born as an agency of the United Nations, the  powerful Organization of Unezco has accomplished  the splendid task of extending culture and peace  without regard to frontiers. May it please God to  defend and preserve it for ever,
(36) From Spain that gave birth to Unamuno and  which has sent us a valuable group of young  thinkers, from the England of Bernard Shaw, and  the France of Jean Cocteau and Paul Valéry, from  the Swecen of Pir Lagerkist, the Russia of Pushkin,  the Germany of Hermann Hesse and the Belgium of  the immortal Maurice Maeterlinck, with the  Portugal of Antelo de Quental and Eca de Queiros,  and ever living Italy in her second Renaissance,  stamped with the illustrious name of Giuseppe  Ungaretti, to the young countries of the American  continent: the United States of America, among  whose heroes, liberators and builders there stands  out clearly the massive figure of a poet, Walt  Whitman; the Mexico of Amado Nervo and Alfonso  Reyes, and my Cuba protected by the stainless  spirit of Marti, the apostle of liberty; and the  beautiful countries of Central America and the,  Antilles lighted by the starry brilliance of Dario;  and Panama witi: the Isthmus for its backbone, and  Colombia the home of Nieto Caballero, of great  men, great artists and great patriots; and the  "sweet, wide and well-inved Venezuela' of the  Liberator, always in my heart; the sturdy  Ecuador of Montalvo, with the Peru of Don Ricardo  Palma, our continental forefather; the Bolivia of  Alcides Arguedas and José Galver, eminent men  from the Andes; the luxuriant and dramatic Chile  of Gabriela Mistral; the bewitching, dazzling  Brazil of Euclydes da Cunha and Olav» Bilac; the  mighty Argentina of Sarmiento, saint and roaring  lion of San Juan; Sweet Paraguay our foster brother  and all the other nations of Europe, Asia, Africa  and the Pacific, which ! cannot enumerate here  because of the only tyrant we endure in this land  of true freedom, democracy and poetry - time ..,  All these countries are present today in this  brilliant gathering of their men of creative intellect  and executive capacity. They have come to our  Republic to unite the powerful forces of science,  education and art on behalf of mankind and for the  honour of humanity.
(37) In the company of such men, 1 am filled with  simple pride and unlooked for happiness,
(38) I thank you all, especially Dr. Jaramillo  Arango, Dr. Julio Barrenechea, the international  spokesman of poetry victorious, Mr. Henry Hope who  let me feel the heart-beat of his great country, and  Dr. Bernal Jimenez, a poet over and above his weighty  treatises on law, who, with his brilliant companions,  by a generous and unanimous motion, approached  my semi-darkness to lift it towards the light.   o-18  FSTERNATIONAL PETITION IN FAVOUR OF ESPFRANTO  (documes: 8C/DR/118)
(39) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish)  I call upon the Mexican delegate,
(40) Mr, SANDOVAL VALLARTA (Mexico)  (Translation from the Spanish): Mr, President, my  delegation presented to the Programme and Budget  Commission a few days ago a draft resolution  which appears in document 8C/DR/116, regarding  a petition in favour of Esperanto. The discussions  in that Commission were concluded in full accord-  ance with the provisions of the Regulations.  the voting then took place in a rather unfavourable  atmosphere. Without giving his judgment on the  fundamentals of this question, the Chairman of the  Programme and Budget Commission has asked me  to submit this draft resolution again at this plenary  meeting. I therefore take this opportunity of doing  so. Unless the President requests otherwise, I! do  not think it necessary to read through the draft  resolution again. In pr:senting it, I should like to  state that this time it is put forwaré with paragraph
(41) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  The draft resolution {8 now open to discussion. 1  call upon the delegate of Switzerland,
(42) Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland) (Translation  from the French): Ladies and gentlemen, I am  speaking to you now, not as Chairman of the  Programme and Budget Commission, but as  delegate of Switzerland. In thai capacity, I wish to  second the Mexican proposal and ! would ask you  merely to vote on it, without discussion. It is a  question of repairing, as it were, a blunder which  has clouded the atmosphere, and I believe that, if  we pass this resolution, it will clarify the situation  a great deal and will attract support which we were  in danger of losing. I therefore recommend that the  resolution, with the deletion of paragraph 4, be  adopted without further discussion.
(43) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Notwithstanding the request of the delegate of  Switzerland I have to call upon ‘he delegate of the  United Kingdom.
(44) Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS (United Kingdom):  Mr. President and fellow delegates, the United  Kingdom delegation is moved to comment upon this  draft resolution, for several reasons, first of all,  in the light of the statement made by the delegate of  Dermark, when he introduced the general resolution  about the organization of our work at this Conference  and at previous conferences. You wili remember  that he questioned the wisdom of bringing in general  resolutions at a late stage, when aue examination  and consideraticn of them is not possible. I submit  that this is the case here. More than that, in this  case you have a draft resolution that was considered  very carefully, and was obviously, from what the  delegates of Mexico and Switzerland have said, the  subject of considerable feeling. And, after a full  discussion, and after a good deal of feeling, it was  PLENARY  However     - 228 -  ETINGS  not accepted by the Commission. Now it is  presented to us in this form for our acceptance,  under conditions that make due consideration  impossible. I would like my fellow delegates to  know that the United Kingdom is not unsympathetic,  but it is concerned about the propriety of th's, and  it is also anxious not to commit the Organization,  without due thought, to steps that it would find very  difficult to justify. For that reason I would like to  move the omission, in addition to paragraph 4, as  has already been suggested by the delegate from  Mexico, of all the words following field in the  fourth line from the end. I think, if it were  possible for us to take the resolution in that form,  the Conference would find itself uncommitted and,  consequently, the matter could be examined afresh  if presented to a future conference.
(45) I gather from the expression of my friend and  colleague, the delegate of Mexico, that he agrees  with my suggestion. I take it for granted that that  would also be true of the delegate of Switzerland,  If that is so, I have very much pleasure in  supporting the resolution, on the assumption that it  ends at “he word field. The new paragraph 5 would  then read "Taies note that several Member States  have announced their readiness to introduce or  expand the teaching of Esperanto in their schools  and higher educational establishments, and  requests those Member States to keep the Director-  Genera! informed of the results attained in that  field".
(46) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Spanish): I shall now submit the resolution to the  vote, with the deletion proposed by the delegate of  the United Kingdom and accepted by the delegates  of Mexico and Switzerland,
(47) The draft resolution, as amended, was  adopted by 30 votes to 5, with 17 abstentions.  COMMEMORATION OF THE UNIVERSAL DECLARATION OF  HUMAN RIGHTS
(48) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Spanish}: I call on Mr. Laugier, the delegate of  France, who will speak to you on behalf of the  Executive Board.
(49) Mr. LAUGIER (France) (Translation from the  French): Mr. President, fellow delegates: asl  take my place on this rostrum to speak to you, on  behalf of the Executive Board, in celebration of the  Universal Declaration of Human Rights, I am not  very suite what my credentials are. I do not know  if I represent the old Executive Board - now dead  and buried yesterday - o7 the new Executive Board  which is to come into being tomorrow. I owe this  honour in the first place, I believe, to a friendly  gesture of Sir Ronald Adam, but I ara sure that, in  associating the old Board and the new with this  event, | am speaking for them both.
(50) Gentlemen, if the principies proclaimed in the  Paris Declaration were universally observed, the  world would be enjoying an era of justice and peace  based on respect for the dignity of man; with the   PLENARY  world in its present uneasy state, however, the  Universal Declaration is not a declaration of peace,  but a call to arms, a universal declaration of war  on all injustice, inequality, ignorance, tyranny and  despicable racial discrimination, As such, it is a  powerful spur to the nations in their pursuit of  justice, May the governments which signed this  declaration of principles bind themselves as soon  as possible by powerful and far-reacking agreements  guaranteeing universal respect for those principles,
(51) Moreover, whether you will or no, whether  you rejoice in it or deplore it, the fact is that the  Universal Declaration of Human Rights has created  throughout the world a profound conviction that  there must be a way of setting up some machinery  of appeal to the highest international courto against  all local or national violations of Hurnan Rights,  Such procedure for petitions, however difficult to  devise, must be established if the peoples of the  world are not to lose hope and confidence in  international co-operation,
(52) In tackling this immense problem affecting the  whole of mankind, Unesco is shouldering an unusual  responsibility, placed upon it by its Constitution and  by specific resolutions of the United Nations in which  its duties are defined. You may rest assured that  the future Executive Board, like its predecessor,  will do its utmost to help Unesco to accomplish this  task worthily.
(53) Having had the great honour and responsibility  of directing, from beginning to end, the vast amount  of preparatory work done by the United Nations  Secretariat before the final texts were adopted, I can  assure you that this is one of the achievements of  the United Nations most deserving of respect,
(54) Success has been achieved, thanks not to a  small group of men, but to the work of thousands  and thousands of people in non-governmental  organizations, government administrations, the  Secretariat and legal circles. They worked to  achieve a declaration which would not be regional in  scope, but truly universal, defining the rights which  are man's from birth, simply because he is a man,  whatever his country or colour, or the beliefs and  philosophies of his social background.
(55) To ensure, the inclusion of the principles of the  Declaration of Human Rights in scatute law and  common law is à major project - it is one of the  first tasks of education, science and culture  throughout the world.
(56) Let us reflect upon the hope placed in us by  suffering multitudes who are still victims of all the  forces of oppression that weigh upon mankind.
(57) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call upon the delegate of India,
(88) Dr. MUDALIAR (India): Mr. President, fellow  de’egates, ladies and gentlemen. Today commem-  orates an epoch making event: the Declaration of  Fuman Rights was signed on this day and has been  ratified by practically all the members of the family  of the United Nations. It is for us of Unesco  peculiarly appropriate that we are in session on such  à day, so that we can recapitulate with pleasure and  profit the ideals that were the mainspring of those  who, after long discussion, drew up this Declaration    ETINGS 11-18  of Human Rights. I am sure there is no one in this  assembly who does not believe in the dignity of man,  in the nobility of the human race and in the purpose-  fulness of human life. To all those who attach great  value to the eternal verities of humanity, this day  marks a turning point, and it is well for us to  recapitulate that, on this day, we have more or  less dedicated ourselves to follow the great truth,  the messages that have been given by the great  Messiahs of our religions, and that humanity at  last - whatever ray be the differences in race,  in colour, in nationality, even in religion - are  united with one voice to maintain human rights in  all parts of the world; with that faith, therefore,  we whole-heartedly dedicate ourselves once more  on this day to that famous Declaration of Human  Rights.  CONSIDERATION AND ADOPTION OF THE REPORT OF THE  NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE (document 3C/NOM/41)
(59) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Spanish): 1 call upon the Chairman of the  Nominations Committee to present his report.
(60) Dr. MUDALIAR (Actirg Chairman of the  Nominations Committee): Mr. President, the  Nominations Committee met this afternoon for the  last time at 3. 30 p.m. and, in the absence of the  Chairman, Mr. Kabir, who had regretfully to leave  earlier for India, the General Committee asked me  to preside.
(61) The Nominations Committee met and discussed  the composition of the three Commitees: the Legal  Committee, the Advisory Committee on Programme  and Budget and the Committee on Reporis of Member  States. The Nominations Committee recommends  for your favourable consideration the following  names for each of these Committees.
(62) The Legal Comraittee will consist of fifteen  members and the States to be represented are:  Argentina, Czechoslovakia, Colombia, France,  Italy, Japan, Laos, Lebanon, Mexico, Netherlands,  Pakistan, Union of South Africa, United Kingdom,  United States of America and the ‘’nion of Soviet  Socialist Republics.
(63) The Advisory Committee on Programme and  Budget, according to a resolution accepted by the  Plenary Conference this morning, on the recom-  mendation of the Programme and Budget  Commission, consists of seventeen members, the  majority of whom should be non-members of the  newly elected Executive Board. The Member States  represented on this Committee are: Australia,  Burma, Chile, Egypt, France, Guatemala, India,  Israel, Norway, Philippines, Poland, Switzerland,  Turkey, United Kingdom, United States of America,  Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and Yugoslavia.  I may say that, of these seventeen names, six are  represented on the new Executive Board.
(64) The Committee on Reports of Member States  is to consist of fifteen members,and the panel  drawn up for your consideration by the Nominations  Committee includes the following names: Austria,  Cambodia, Ceylon, Costa Rica, Denmark, France,  Honduras, Hungary, Iran, Jordan, Korea, Spain,   I-18 PLENARY  United Kingdom, United States of America and the  Union of Soviet Socialist Reputlics. The Nominations  Committee recommenc ; these names for your  favourable consideration,
(65) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  The report is submitted to the Conference for  consideration. I call upon the delegate of the  United Kingdom.
(63} Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS (United Kingdom):  Mr. President and fellow delegates, we of the United  Kingdom have listened to the Report of the Chairman  of the Nominations Committee with very great  interest, and I am sure that we appreciate the work  that he and his Committee did and we listened with  great interest to the names that he read out, But!  wish to be allowed to ask that one name be withdrawn  from the Committee on Reports of Member States  and that another be substituted for it. I have every  confidence in asking you to withdraw the one name  and that is the name of the United Kingdom, and i  hope you will allow me to suggest that, instead of  the United Kingdom, we invite Turkey to take our  place. I look at these lists that we have before us  of Member States who have previously served on this  Committee and I notice that Turkey has been a  faithful member. I also remember that on one  occasion, when I had the pleasure of serving on this  Committee, the delegate of Turkey was a most  efficient and devoted Chairman of that Committee.
1 understand further that Turkey would be very glad  to serve, so with your permission, Mr. President,  I should like to withdraw the name of the United  Kingdom and to substitute the name of Turkey.
(67) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  The list presented by the Chairman of the Nominations  Committee will then be examined, with the alteration  proposed by the delegate of the United Kingdom, to  the effect that Turkey should take the place of the  United Kingdom.
(69) The report is approved by 53 votes in favour  with none against and one abstention,  VO:'E OF THANKS DY THE GENERAL CONFERENCE TO THE  URUGUAYAN GOVERNMENT (documest 8C/DR/125)  {70) 1 call upon the delegate of Italy.
(71) Mr. VERONESE (Italy) (Translation from the  French}: Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the  fact that the Head of the Italian delegation has, to  his regret and mine, been obliged to return to italy,  confers upon me the pleasant duty and honour of  presenting the resolution of thanks to the country  which has given us hospitality. I am all the more  pleased to do this, because I have been entrusted  with the task both by the delegations which signed  the resolution and by others who wished to be asso-  ciated with it, particularly the delegation of Spain,
(72) The time has come to reflect for a moment,  to take stock of the work achieved and then express  - 230 -     MEETINGS  our common feeling of satisfaction and gratitude,  and in so doing manifest the deep sincerity and  conviction behind this expression of our thanks and  pay tribute to the people of Uruguay and their  leaders.
(73) We can be all the more pleased with the moral  balance sheet of this General Conference in that we  have seen the reasons for fear (which we all shared  at the outset) diminishing from day to day and the  reasons for hope increasing in like measure.
(74) Despite difficulties, not yet finally solved,  relating to the structure and organs of the  Conference, it is comforting to observe that a great  deal of practical work has been done by the  Conference, its Commissions, Committees and  working parties, and in a very favourable  atmosphere.
(75) We are leaving Montevideo with an appreciably  higher budget, but also with increased work for the  Executive Board and the Secretariat; and this has  been achieved with a minimum of sacrifice on the  part of Member States, thanks to wider co-operation  and the entry of new Member States.
(76) Montevideo also marks an important step  forward in Unesco's life, the opening of a new  chapter. The reform of the programme is tcday  far more than a hope, and the appeal sent out to the  National Commissions, now more nurnerous and  better established, ensures the Organization of the  effective co-operation of the free forces of  education, science and culture.
(77) In expressing our thanks to our Uruguayan  friends, we do not overlook the great efforts made  in the preparation, conduct and success of this  General Conference by the Chairman of the  Executive Board, Sir Ronald Adam, from whom we  part with great regret and profound gratitude, oy  the Director-General and the entire Secretariat,  both permanent and temporary auxiliary staff, who  have had the responsibility for carrying out tasks  ranging from the most brilliant to the most humble,  but all working for the achievement of a lofty aim.  Nor must I forget the interpreters who devotedly  and successfully enable us to understand one another.
(78) But, as we all well know, none of this would  have been possible without the cordial welcome ard  generous hospitality of the people and the Government  of Uruguay. Addressing myself especially to you,  Mr. President, and to our friends of the Uruguayan  delegation, and speaking more directly to the vote  of thanks proposed in the name of Italy and of the  other delegations, I take the liberty, which I intead  as a tribute, to speak a language to which I am  unaccustomed, and whose beauty I hope I shall net  obscure.  (Translation from the Spanish)
(70) Mr. President, I am expressing sincere  emotion and not simply performing a conventional  but necessary act of courtesy when I say in Spanish,  a language brother to my own and born of the same  mother tongue, how deeply grateful we all feel  towards this happy Republic and towards yourself,  Mr. Zavala Muniz, for having so decisively  contributed to the success of this eighth session of  the General Conference.   PLENARY
(80) There can be no doubt that the atmosphere in  which our work has been carried on - an atmosphere  of calm and cordial collaboration in which the host  country has shown a zeal constantly allied to great  delicacy, confirming once more, in the sphere of  international solidarity, the value of such a sound  and eloquent democratic tradition in the national  sphere - there can be no doubt, I say, that this  atmosphere has been a decisive factor in enabling  our Conference to get through its work smoothly  and punctually.
(81) But this quiet and hospitable atmosphere,  created by a people at once friendly and active,  could not in itself have produced the right conditions  for a highly complicated international meeting, if  the collective expression of interest in and respect  for culture had not been supplemented by the  individual efforts of a man versed in cultural  values and respectful of the liberty of others, such  as you, Mr. President, have shown yourself to be  so often during this Conference, with a selflessness  equalled only by the worth of the cause we all have  at heart.  (£2) Nor can I refrain from mentioning the lively  and human personality of our friend and distinguished  n ember of the Executive Board, Mr. Secco Ellauri,  To his tireless and fraternal care for all of us, we  ace largely indebted for our pleasant sojourn in  Uruguay.
(83; Moreover, Mr. President, the democratic  atmosphere that reigns in the Republic of Uruguay  is something much more - as we have all realized  during our stay - than the formal values of parlia-  mentary practice and technique: it is a stable  element in the minds of all the inhabitants of this  beautiful country, and even in the minds of those  apparently least concerned with the complicated  machine of public lire,
(84) Democracy is a living and spontaneous force,  capable for that very reason of being injected  premptly and with sincerity into the spiritual  energies of civilization, not only when it takes the  form of a tradition linked to particular interests  and factors of a political nature, but also when it  is in complete and free accordance with the dictates  and guidance of its own reasc.aing and of its own  moral conscience,
(85) It is therefore significant that these same  qualities of swift and intuitive understanding of  events, realism and faith in the future, which are  typical of this hospitable country, should have been  reflected in the proceedings of this eighth session  of the Unesco General Conference, which will stand  as an example from three very characteristic points  of view: the fast rate of work, the sound practical  attitude towards the subjects discussed and the  resolutions adopted, and the diverse and generous  prospects and hopes held out on the road to New  Delhi and the future. And, Mr. President, it is  excellent, just and salutary for mankind as a whole  and for each one of us considered separately in his  unmistakable and invincible dignity as an individual,  as a free and conscious being, that once again,  culture - the highest expression of human dignity -  should have given the representatives of the whole  civilized world an incomparable opportunity to  demonstrate their solidarity and progress,  - 231 -     MEETINGS II-18  linked with the names of Montevideo and  Uruguay.
(86) The field in which so many unforeseen and  ever more abundant harvests have ripened could  not be more fertile than the soil itseif of your  country. On behalf of every one of us | offer our  best wishes and undying gratitude to this small,  brignt country of the Americas.  (Translation from the French)
(87) I now have the honour to read the draft  resolution submitted by the deiegations of Bolivia,  Brazil, Egypt, France, India, Italy, Japan, New  Zealand, tne United Kingdon and the United States  of America:  "At the conclusion of its eighth session, held in  Monteviden from 12 November to 11 December 1954,  the General Conference of the United Nations  Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization,  deeply moved by the warm welcome accorded to ait  and by the incomparable hospitality extended by the  Legislative Authority in allowing the meetings of  the Conference to be held in the Parliament building,  symtrol of the liberties of the Uruguayan people,  conscious of the unanimous interest taken by public  opirion in the work which Unesco is doing on behalf  of international understanding, and of the ungrudging  he\p afforded by the cultural and educational  institutions of tle Republic towards ensuring the  complete success of the Conference, expresses its  rrofound gratitude to H, E. Mr. Andres Martinez  Trueba, the President, and the other members of  the National Council of Administration, to H.E, Mr.  Alfeo Brum, Speaker of the Ceneral Assembly, and  to Mr. Armando Malet, the Municipal Intendant of  Montevideo, who honoured the opening meeting of  the General Conference with their prasence and  who have given so many proofs of their thoughtful  interest, and  Expresses its warmest thanks to the Uruguayan  Government, and in particular to H, E, Mr. Justino  Zavala Muniz, Minister of Education, for the  invaliable assistance and unstinted support given  to the work of the Conference."
(88) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Spanish): I call upon the delegate of Pakistan.
(89) Mr. SHARIF (Fakistan): Mr. President,  fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen; ! consider  it a great privilege to have this opportunity to pay  my homage to you, Sir, as President of this  Conference, and to your country, the Government  and people of Uruguay. This Conference could not  have met under better auspices than that of the  Government of Uruguay, and in the city of Montevideo.  Mr. President, the Republic of Uruguay has already  established a fine tradition of enlightened democracy,  of tolerance and of social justice, qualities which  appeal particularly to Unesco. This beautiful city  of Montevideo shows evidence all round of an  enlightened culture. The large number of spacious  parks, the youth centres, the universities, and  museums, the art galleries are the rneasure of  the interest of your people and of your  Government in the sphere of education and culture.   nn-18 PLENARY
(80) Mr. President, at the last session of the  Conference in Paris I was one of those who strongly  advocated acceptance of the gracious invitation from  the Government of Uruguay, an invitation presented  most persuasively by my distinguished colleague,  Professor Secco Ellauri, and ably supported by  almost all the Latin American countries. 1 did this  in the hope that this Conference would bring people  from distant lands into close contact with the people  of Latin America. My hope, Mr. President, has  been fully justified. We, from the distant lands  of the East, came here with a message of greeting,  of goodwill, and we have been received here with  warmth and affection, with kindness and grace. 1  have no doubt that this Conference will cement these  bonds, comparatively new bonds, into firm friend-  ships, Mr. President, 1 feel very happy that this  Conference has given us an opportunity to visit  some of the other Latin American countries. We  have come in contact with a large number of Latin  Americans at this Conference. It has given us an  opportunity to understand the problems of this  continent, to appreciate your hopes and aspirations.  If you will permit me to say so, your continent is a  continent of great promise. It has abundant natural  ‘resources, it has a people who are determined to  develop those resources, and, with their strong  attachment to moral values, i have no doubt that  this continent will play a great historical rôle in  the future of the world. I hope and pray that this  rôle will be for the benefit of mankind, for peace,  goodwill and harmony in the world.
(91) Mr. President, may ! offer you my warmest  felicitations on the sagacity, prudence and cheer-  fulness with which you have steered this Conference  to a successful conclusion. May I also offer the  thanks of all of us to your Government and to your  people for the generous hospitality and the warmth  of their affection.
(92) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish}:
1 cali on the delegate of the Philippines.
(83) Mr. DE LOS SANTOS (Philippines) (Translation  from the Spanish): Mr. President, fellow delegates,  ladies and gentlemen, I shall be very brief, because  ali that I could say in support of this resolution  before us today, would be of little value.
(94) Although I come from a country that is small  and poor, our voice necessarily carries equal weight  with those of the most honourable delegations from  rich and powerful nations; but what we lack in  might and eloquence, we can redeem by the warmth  and sincerity of our gratitude for the kindness and  extreme friendliness of Uruguay and the Uruguayans.
(95) In Uruguay we have felt completely at home,  as if we were in our own country. The sun, the sea,  the breezes, the authorities and the population in  general have all made us forget we are in a different,  faraway land. Here we have not suffered from the  deep nostalgia which our national poet, on a visit  to Europe, expressed in the following lines:  "Dulces son las horas en la propia patria,  donde es amigo cuant> alumbra el sol,  vida es la brisa que er sus campos vuela,  grata la muerte, més tierno el amor".  MEETINGS  ("How sweet the hours our mother country yields,  Where all are friends who walk beneath the sun,  Where living breezes blow across the fields,  Where death is sweet and love does softer come”).
(96) Here we have found all that our poet missed  when he was away from his own country. But apart  from the sentimental aspect, there is also a very  good and practical reason why the choice of Uruguay  for this eighth session of the Unesco General  Conference has been fortunate and most successful,  At the present time humanity as a whole is passing  through a very serious crisis; we arc faced witha  problem of such enormous importance Laat upon its  solution will depend the fate of generations to come.  Unesco is one of the organizations making deter-  mined efforts to find the right solution to this  problem which affects us all directly: I meun, the  problem of our own survival in an atmosphere of  freedom compatible with human dignity.
(87) Uruguay is a country - and there are not  many like it - which, in a certain way and within  its geographical limiis, has managed to channel  its social, political and economic life towards the  solution of the universal problem which is of such  great concern to us all. Uruguay has taken a  considerable lead in solving problems arising from  a false concept of racial differences; it has solved  the problem of general, free education from tae  primary school to the university; it has given no  less attention to the spiritual aspect of education,  recognizing that the best system of government is  that which renders unto God the things that are  God's, and unto Caesar the things that are Caesar's.  Thus it has taken pains to ensure that every man,  by the sweat of his brow and his love of work, can  se ure economic independence, and over and above  all these considerations tl.e deep attachment of  Uruguay to democratic institutions is an example  which all Member States of Unesco should emulate  and, if possible, surpass.
(98) The delegation of the Philippines is not only  honoured but happy to have had this most welcome  opportunity of taking part in the eighth session of  the General Conference in this fine and beautiful  city, and would like once more to express most  heartfelt thanks for the courtesy and kindness we  have received from the people and authorities of  Uruguay.
(99) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Spar:sh): I cail upon the delegate of Libya.
(100) Mr. FATHY KEKHIA (Libya) {Translation  from the French): Mr. President, ladies and  gentlemen, this is the second time a delegate of  Libya has spoken at Unesco, The first time was  in 1952, when we thanked you for the honour you  did us by admitting us as a Member State.
(101) As the only delegate of Libya at this eighth  session of the General Conference, ! did not think  fit to speak during the discussion of the Director-  General's report, for one simple reason:  having no faith in Unesco assisiance to  small and poor countries, ! had nothing  to say and rnthing to ask. I was convinced   that this assistance was never adequate to  - 232 -   PLENARY MEETINGS I-18  meet the economic ~nd social needs of these  countries.
(103) But after attending the various Commissions  for four weeks, more as an observer than an active  member, 1 must admit that if we have not obtained  what we want, it is often partly our own fault, 1  have noticed that very frequently requests put  forward by the representatives of amall countries  were listened to sympathetically and were given  consideration. I hope that in the future my country  will take a more active part in the General  Conference.
(105) 1 have come to this rostrum today because I  have a pleasant duty to perform. I wish to speak  in the name of my country to this young land of  Uruguay which has been such a cordial and generous  host to us all, and to tell them how we admire and  thank them,
(104) This vote of thanks also has a very special  meaning for us, Uruguay is a young country which  Libya would be proud to take as an example becauss,  despite its difficult beginnifigs, it has had faith in  its star; it has had confidence in itself and in the  great possibilities open to ita people. Despite its  youth Uruguay has always been in the van; it was  a quarter of a century ahead of the great countries  of Europe and of the world in the field of important  social reforms designed to ensure the welfare of  the people, thur setting an example.
(105) It would be hard, therefore, to find better  words in which to pay tribute to this young and  great people than to say with Corneille: "Aux âmes  bien nées, la valeur n'attend pas le nombre des  années”, (For the noble soul, virtue is not  reckoned by the sum of years.)
(106) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call upon the delegate of Ecuador.
(107) Mr. ZEVALLOS (Ecuador) (Translation from  the Spanish): Mr, President, fellow delegates, it  is a source of real pride to the countries of Spanish  descent, that this great little Republic of Uruguay,  an authentic mirror of Latin America should have  been a meetiug ground for men of all races and  languages to work for the fellowship of man along  the paths of culture.
(108) And there is no country more free and  democratic than Uruguay. It is a country from  which all mystic of hatred and all doctrines of  force have been banished; it is a free republic  which throughout its history has shown that it is  possible in this world of dust and sorrow in which  we dwell for men to live together as brothers. No  country could be better suited for an assembly of  thinking people than this land of intellectuals which  had the good fortune to give birth to a real genius:  José Enrique Rodd, the writer who expressed  better than anyone else the anguish of being  intelligent: real reformers like José Batlle y  Ordofiez; women who sing of life, like Juana de  Ibarbourou; powerful thinkers and orators like  Zavala Muniz or Secco Ellauri.
(109) The delegation of Ecuador ventures to ask  the plenary meeting to accept an addendum to the  proposal put forward by the Head of the delegation  of Italy, to the effect that our sentiments may be    - 233 -  permanently recorded by affixing at a convenient  place in this Palacio Legislativo, a bronze tablet  bearing the following inscription: “The eighth  session of the General Conference of the United  Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural  Organization, Unesco, in token of gratitude to  Uruguay for its generous hospitality."
(110) The PRESIDENT (Traaslation from the  Spanish): ! call on the delegate of China,
(111) Mr. LI YU-YING (China) (Translation from  the French): Ladies and gentlemen, 1 come here  to express our thanks to Uruguay and Montevideo,  to the people and the Government. I already spoke  on this subject at the opening meeting of the  Cunference and I quoted facts. ! do not wish to  repeat what has already been said; we shall never  forget what this country has done for us.
(112) ! therefore thank and compliment Uruguay,  not only as other speakers have done, but in a  quite special way. 1 congratulate our Conference  on the work it has done. I cannot say that the  Conference has beer absolutely perfect. Nothing  is perfect in this world. ! am an optimist and I  do not like to criticize, However, I must admit  that on certain points the Chinese delegation has  been rather disappointed. There is no need for  me to repeat this: it is not the moment. Let us  end our work happily and congratulate curselves  on what we have done.
(113) Meanwhile, Uruguay and Montevideo, where  we are setting up permanent institutions, bring us  compensation; if we have lost on certain points we  have gained still more on others. We thank  Uruguay and Montevideo not only for their  hospitality, but also for their freedom and their  sense of justice, 1 can only repeat those words  to thank Uruguay, like all the delegates who have  worked for the true cause of Unesco.
(114) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Spanish): If no delegate wishes to speak, voting  will now take place on the resolution which has  been read out, together with the addition proposed  by the delegate of Ecuador,
(115) The resolution is carried unanimously.
(118) I call upon the Director-General.
(117) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL: Mr. President,  I know you would not want the session to end without  a few words from me.
(118) I wish to associate the Secretariat with the  thanks that have been given to Uruguay and to  Montevideo. I wish to thank also the Uruguayan  employees who have worked so well for us for  such long hours and in such a friendly spirit. 1  wish to thank the press and the other media of  communication which have made it possible for us  to communicate the work of the Conference to the  outside world.
(119) Of course we all thank our President,  and 1 think 1 know more than most of you  what a great rôle he has played, for I  have had tc work very closely with him   I-18 PLENARY  in the management of the work of the Conference,
(120) Let me end by thanking you, the delegates,  for the way in which you have made the work of the  Secretariat much simpler than it has been in the  past. You have responded to my very great  satisfaction to a number of the proposals that we  placed before you. 1 wish that our proposals,  indeed, had been as good as the decisions which  you, the delegates to this Conference, have taken.  You have given us clearer guidance for the next  two years than the Secretariat has ever before had  from the General Conference. For that we are  deeply thankful. You have put heavy responsibilities  upon us for the next two years, but, ! assure you,  even at the weary end of a long Conference, we are  full of enthusiasm and zeal for the work ahead. We  shall tackle it with energy, enthusiasm and hope.
(121) 1 should also like to say that we welcome  your insistence that, in so many of the jobs which  we shall be doing in the coming two years, we work  in the closest collaboration with the Executive Board.  I think we have demonstrated in the past two years  that we can work in the closest kind of collaboration  with the Executive Board,
(122) You have put a responsible task upon us, I think  greater than in the past, in connexion with the exe-  cution of the programme resolutions. You have given  us wide latitude in the implementation of many of its  items. We shall try to carry out your wishes in the  execution of these resolutions and in doing so we  shall have to rely a great deal on the guidance of the  Executive Board.
(123) You have placed upon us many heavy respon-  sibilities in preparing for the ninth session of the  General Conference. You have asked us to make  many studies of very great importance; you have,  in a very friendly spirit, given us additional money  only for some of those tasks, but we are glad to  assure you that, without commensurate additional  resources we shall make these tasks high priority  assigoments.
(124) I wish to thank all of the delegates here for  the fine spirit of collaboration they have shown. We  shall try, in carrying out your wishes, to respond  in the same spirit.
(125) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):   Mr. Chairman of the Executive Board, Mr.  MEETINGS  Director-General, delegates: I am indeed moved to  be present, in the name of my people, my country  and my Government and in my private capacity, at  this final meeting of the General Conference. I am  happy to think that when I proposed, in the name of  Uruguay, to the Conference held in Paris in 1951, that  it should meet in Montevideo, although I knew that you  would discover nothing particularly striking in our  country, I was nevertheless sure that the Unesco  Conference would find there a suitable atmosphere  for its deliberations and the utmost friendliness on  the part of our people,
(126) I feel happy and proud, and shall be proud all  my life, to have presided over this assembly, whose  results will be so fruitful in the world of the intellect:  I am glad that this illustrious assembly of the world's  thought should have met in this Parliament building,  where, in freedom, we seek to achieve justice, to  show men the paths of peace, brotherhood and liberty.
(127) I am happy to think that, even wheu we were  intimately stirred by our electoral struggles, our  people always contrived to follow attentively the  deliberations of this Conference, and that was why,  one night, men and women from every corner of  the countryside came to the city of Montevideo,  which was offering the homage of its friendship;  anc these men and women came to sing because we  are a people who believe in peace, in progress  and in the brotherhood of men.
(128) I thank you most profoundly for having  conferred upon me the honour of presiding over  your deliberations. I thank the Director-General  and all the members of his Secretariat for having  enabled me, with my lack of experience, to direct  the work of this Conference. I thank you for all  you have said about my country; I thank you for  your generosity and, at the hour of parting, 1  should like to tell you, and I am sure I speak in  the name of the Republic as a whole, that it is with  a feeling of happy nostalgia we see you go, nestalgia  at your departure, and joy at having won your  friendship. At this hour of ieave taking, thanks  and heartfelt wishes for your personal good fortune  and for the welfare of your countries,
(129) I now declare the eighth session of the  Unesco General Conference closed,  The meeting rose at 6.55 p.m.  - 234 -