PROGRAMME AND  $40,000 saved in connexion with paragraphs 138 and
139 should be taken into account.
(122) The Secretariat should not be allowed to dictate  to the Commission when obliging it to go back upon  its vote. When the Secretariat was favourable to a  project, it was disposed to make all necessary  alterations, but in the case under discussicn an  incorrect figure had been given, which showed that  the Secretariat did not want India to ga:n its point.
(123) The CHAIRMAN recalled the Commission's  previous decision when voting the provisional budget  for the Natural Sciences Department. He urged  delegates not to go back on their offer with regard  to the Delhi Office before they kncw the exact  figures:  (a) of the budgetary implications of the Delhi  Office;  (b) of the total saving effected in the provisional  budget of the Natural Sciences Department.
(124) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  apologized again for his mistake. The late hour no  doubt explained his own lapse and certain exaggerated  imputations ascribed to him by the Liberian delegate.    BUDGET COMMISSION 1v-20  He regretted his mistake, but to say that it was a  calculated manoeuvre in order to defeat a delega-  tion's proposal was an undeserved insult.
(125) Mr. PRASAD (India) requested the Secretariat  to provide the figures for maintenance of the Delhi  Office at i's reduced level, so that the additional  expense involved in keeping it at its present level  could be estimated
(126) Mr. U-TSUN-CHEN (China) considered that,  if the vote on the Delhi Office was invalid, the  Comission should disregard it.
(127) The CHAIRMAN asked whether the Liberian  delegate wished to make for entry in the records a  statement on his previous remarks about the  Secretariat, to indicate that he agreed with the latter.
(128) Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia) was sorry he could  not then make the statement required of him.
(129) At the request of the delegate of the  United Kingdom, the meeting was adjourned just  after midmight.  TWENTIETH MEETING
1 December 1954 at 10 am.  Chairman: Mr. THA HLA (Union of Burma)  STATEMENT BY THE LIBERIAN DELEGATE
(1) Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia) referred to a dis-  cussion between himself and the representative of  the Secretariat at the previous meeting. He had  not intended to question the integrity of the  Secretariat and in view of the explanation which had  been given he was prepared to withdraw his  statement.  ITEM 8.4.3 OF REVISED AGENDA : SOCIAL SCIENCES  (continued)  Paragraphs 124-130
(2) Approved.  Direct aid to Member States in the organization of  social science teaching (paragraphs 131-134)
(3) Mr. SANCHEZ REULET (Organization of  American States) expressed his sat sfaction at the  work Unesco was doing to study the position with  regard to social science teaching 1 : Latin American  - 403 -     universities, he added that OAS was prepared to  co-operate in the work by furmshing the services  of its own staff and making an appropriation for the  purpose in its budget for 1955 and 1956.  Technical aid to Member States (paragraphs 135-139).  Resolution 3. 34
(4) Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom) said  that a large sum had been allocated to the project,  but not enough information was given on how it would  be spent. There were very few highly qualified  social scientists available and since, as had been  pointed out, social science activities were fairly  new to Unesco's programme, it was important not  to advance too far without adequate personnel. He  asked if the Director of the Department could  indicate whether there was sufficient talent available  to justify expenditure at the rate of $50, 000 in each  of the coming two years.
(5) Mr. VITO (Italy) asked whether some of the  technical aid budget recommended in resolution
3. 34 could be used to assist the establishment of  social science teaching institutes, to help in  developing research on the social implications of   IV-20 PROGRAMME AND  mass communication, He was not concerned with the  technical aspects, but with the kind of research  carried out by the Institute of Public Opinion, the  BBC Listener Research in the United Kingdom and  the Society of Authors in Italy. In the past there had  been no attempt to deal with the problem at univer-  sity level, but if any such initiative were taken by  Unesco, the University of Milan would be glad to  co-operate.
(6) Mr. BRANDAO CAVALCANTI (Brazil) dwelt  on the stimulus Unesco's aid might give to the  teaching of the social sciences, which was still in its  early days.
(7) Technical aid would be particularly valuable in  the formation of research centres, whether teams  of students or private institutions.
(8) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) said that his country  had made a request for help with a view to founding  an Institute of Social Sciences in the Lebanese  University The Institute, which would be founded  under the joint auspices of the Lebanese, American  and French universities, would be widely open to  students and highly international. Mgr Maroun  assured the Commission that the preparatory work,  which had been done on the basis of thorough  enquiries carried rut over several years by the  Beirut Centre for Social Research, was already  finished.
(9) Mr. PRATT (Austraha) said that the general  opinion at the regional conference on teaching of  social science in Asia had been that the best results  from a limited budget would be achieved by sending  social scientists out of the underdeveloped countries  for training rather than sending missions into those  countries. The Australian delegation supported the  resolution, with the proviso that two-way action  should be envisaged, and that missions should not  be contemplated unless they had been requested.
(10) Mr. MENDIS (Ceylon) supported the resolution  but agreed with the point made by the delegate of  Australia. He was particularly interested in para-  graph 138, since in his country teaching would have  to be given in schools before it could start in  universities. With regard to the delegate of  Lebanon's statement, the request he had made was a  special one and Unesco should grant it.
(11) To sum up, Ceylon would be glad to take  advantage of a project for training social scientists;  and teaching within the countries should be given  first in teacher training colleges, then in secondary  schools and lastly in the universities.
(12) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences), replying to the delegate of the United  Kingdom, said that, far from having too large a  budget, the programme had had to be lim:ted through  lack of funds. In the previous year, one mission  had been proposed, but twenty-three had been  requested from Member States. It had been possible,  with the Executive Board's help in making transfers  from other parts of the budget, to send four missions  {to Costa Rica, Guatemala, Pakistan and Greece),  but there were still 19 requests outstanding. Moreover,  - 404 -     BUDGET COMMISSION  the project was included on the general ground that  when the 1955-56 prograinme was being planned the  Secretariat had been 1astructed that more attention  was to be given to direct aid to Member States.  Urescr would be helping Member States not only by  advisory missions but also by assistance with  teaching aids and by grants for fellowships. (See  Exchange of Persons Programme, paragraph 49)
(13) The Italian delegate had suggested certain  activities which, Mrs. Myrdal said, might be among  the requests from Member States, Selection among  requests received would be necessary, but difficult  with a limited budget, but suggestions from delegates  would be borne in mind at the appropriate time.
(14) With regard to paragraph 138, the Department's  share in fellowships under the Exchange of Persons  Service was at present concentrated on two fields,  the one, at present under discussion, of promoting  social science teaching and the other on the social  impact of industrialization. The fellowships and  mission schemes were planned in conjunction, so  that students trained abroad would be able to take  over from the foreign experts at the end of their  term of work.
(15) The Director-General would shortly be sending  a circular letter inviting requests from Member  States, but funds were already inadequate for projects  which had been submitted with fully detailed plans.  Those included a social science institute in Lebanon,  social science teaching in Syrian universities and  Iraq: secondary schools, the teaching of statistics  in Iran, an institute of economics and sociology in  Guatemala, and a regional post-graduate institute  of economics in Central America.
(16) Thus the project represented a modest start to  meet specific needs which had been strongly voiced  by Member States.
(17) Mr. SEDES (France) admitted that it was a  good thing for students from certain countries to go  abroad to foreign universities better organized than  their own, but he thought 1t was equally necessary  to arrange courses in the social sciences in  umversities that Jacked them.
(18) It should not be forgotten that social science  courses were normally accompanied, and should  always be accompanied, by research, and that such  research provided the countries in which it was  carried out with a considerable body of data likely  to help them in understanding their own needs. It  was for Unesco to take the lead in organizing social  science courses and, their indispensable corollary,  research.
(19) Mrs. PINTO DE VIDAL (Uruguay) regretted  that the social sciences had not yet been brought  within the aegis of the United Nations, since it would  be a fine task for Unesco to encourage the study of  those sciences, particularly in the underdeveloped  countries, She considered that, if Unesco could  enlist the aid of Member States and obtain an  increase in its revenue, it could carry out that very  important work more energetically and on a more  lavish scale.
(20) Mr. SIDDIQI (Pakistan) was keenly interested  in the activities proposed under resolution 3. 34.   PROGRAMME AND  A scheme was being worked out in his country for  setting up a faculty of social sciences, to include the  study of international relations, political science,  economics, geography and other related subjects,  and the assistance envisaged under the resolution  would be most helpful. In his opinion teaching should  start at university level, in order to provide per-  sonnel equipped to introduce the subjects in  secondary schools and training colleges.
(21) Mr. SUNDARAM (India) was sympathetic  towards the resolution but disagreed with the argu-  ment of the United Kingdom delegate. The very fact  that social sciences were less developed than other  activities showed that unlimited sums could be used  for teaching and training in that field. As he had  stated at a previous meeting, the development of the  social sciences was essential to the promotion of the  attitude to peace which was one of the fundamental  ideas of Unesco.
(22) Mr. WALKER LINARES (Chile) said that his  delegation fully supported resolution 3. 34, although  it considered that 1t would be essential to include  instruction about social legislation in the teaching of  the social sciences; Unesco might be able to carry  out that work in collaboration with ILO
123) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences), replying to the delegate of Chile, said  that, although social legislation was the concern of  the International Labour Organization, Unesco was  the only agency in the United Nations family dealing  with the teaching of social sciences and therefore  also with the teaching of law. Many requests had been  received for assistance in that field, and there would  no doubt be many more if the proposed programme  were approved.
(24) With regard to the resolution proposed by the  delegation of India (DR/21), asking for assistance  in connexion with the School of International Relations  at Dethi, the Executive Board and the Advisory  Committee on Programme and Budget had recom-  mended that requests of that nature should be dealt  with under resolution 3. 34 as aid to Member States.
(25) Mr. RAADI (Iran) approved the substance cf the  resolution, as did most of the delegations.
(26) Iran was one of a group of countries that had  experts who, without perhaps being world authorities,  could start off the teaching of the social sciences in  their own countries. But, lacking proper orgamza-  tion, appropriate help and often the necessary  documentation, those experts had to turn to other  subjects. Whatever steps they might take towards  organizing social science teaching on systematic  lines should be supported with all Unesco's authority.
(27) Mr. AWAD (Egypt) supported the project in all  its aspects, and mentioned particularly the training  of teachers and the teaching of social sciences at  university and post-graduate levels. In his view,  however, the States concerned should contribute to  the cost of projects which affected a limited area.
(28) Mr. DIAZ SAMAYOA (Guatemala) thought that,  although the work undertaken by the Department of  - 405 -     BUDGET COMMISSION IV-20  Social Sciences was worthy of high praise, efforts  should be made to leave the greatest possible  development of the subjects 1n question at university  level. His delegation therefore thought that Member  States should be recommended: (1) to set up, in  their universities, special institutes for study and  research in the social sciences; {2) to include  certain social science subjects in their respective  curricula, taking particular account of their  influence on the development of man's mind, (3) to  increase the funds already allocated to such work.
(29) Mr. BERGSTRAESSER (German Federal  Republic) supported the proposals of the delegates  of Guatemala and France. À small budget could be  used to the greatest advantage by careful cultivation  of research and teaching at university level, thus  helping underdeveloped countries to train their own  staff with the least delay. He proposed - either for  inclusion in the resolution, or as a general directive  that priority should be given to training of people who  would be able to train social science teachers in  their own countries.
(30) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences) said that the views of the German delegate  would be kept in mind.
(31) In reply to the delegate of Egypt, in general the  same rules applied as for technical assistance. A  round figure of $12, 000 per annum was provided for  each mission, the total sum thus allowing for four  missions in each of the years 1955 and 1956. If, as  sometimes occurred, a coun'ry needed a mission for  more than one year, the number of countries would  have to be reduced.
(32) The CHAIRMAN asked for a vote on resolution
3, 34, amended by the deletion of the word "echnical".
(33) The resolution was adopted unanimously.
(34) The Commission then voted on project 3.3 as a  whole, comprising resolutions 3.31, 3.32, 3.33, and
(35) The project was approved unanimously.  Projects 3. 4-3. 7
(36) Mr. CABOUAT (Advisory Committee on  Programme and Budget) said that the Advisory  Committee had tried in 1ts recommendations to  select from the many priority fields those most deser-  ving of special attention. Projects 3.5 and 3.6  belonged to that category.
(37) Onthe other hand, it had had to eliminate -  although, of course, only temporarily - projects  whose execution seemed of secondary importance,  given the available credits. That applied to project
3.4, and especially paragraph 152, relating to public  acceptance or rejection of Unesco and United Nations  principles.
(38) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of  Social Sciences) introduced the remainder of the  chapter on Social Sciences. The last four projects  differed in character from the previous ones, in that   IV-20 PROGRAMME AND  they constituted a programme in which Unesco, on the  basis of the machinery established in the previous  section, was endeavouring to apply the resources of  social science to the solution of certain vital social  problems. The ones which had been selected were:  human rights, international understanding, social  development, and evaluation. They represented, in  fact, an adaptation of Unesco's social sciences pro-  gramme to the concern for practical action expressed  by the Executive Board and by Member States.  Unesco's means were modest compared with the vast-  ness of the problems involved, and help would be  needed from Member States. Unesco could provide  the stimulus and strategic aid in marshalling the  resources of the various countries, so that research  could be carried out internationally instead of  bilaterally.
(39) In that connexion she referred to Unesco's more  ambitious programme of 1946 and quoted a recom-  mendation stressing the vital need to tackle the  problem of tensions. In spite of careful preparation  in the Department of Social Sciences, Unesco had  never been called upon to implement the recommen-  dations adopted in 1952, 1953 and 1954 calling for  research directly in tensions areas. Sucha  resolution was therefore not included in the present  programme. A new stage had been reached, where  the study of tensions was being replaced by positive  action for the improvement of international  understand’ ng.
(4V) Mrs. Myrdal described briefly project 3.4,  which had two major fields of activity: mediation and  public opinion. She read an extract from the report  of the recent meeting of the Expert Committee on  Education for International Understanding and Co-  operation, welcoming the inclusion of paragraphs
148-160 in Unesco's programme. Public opinion on  the 1deals of Unesco and the United Nations  represented a new venture for Unesco in its studies  of the crucial problem of peace and international  understanding. À cautious approach was envisaged  in the imtial stages, and the free assistance offered  by several public opinion research institutes  represented a valuable contribution. With their help  Unesco would be able to discover in what directions  it should intensify its work for the enlightenment of  the public through education and mass communication.
(41) On the problems of human rights and social  development close co-operation would be maintained  with the United Nations and the international  organizations concerned. At present neither the  United Nations nor any of its constituent bodies had  research departments in those fields and, while  Unesco could not accept full responsibility, it would  be possible by mobilizing social scientists in  different countries to direct activities to problems  of specific value to those bodies which had to make  decisions on international problems. Thus the  Department of Social Sciences was endeavouring to  serve the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies  and to promote wider public interest in them. There  was full co-operation within the United Nations  family, a good division of labour and no risk of  overlapping.
(42) Inthe field of human rights (project 3.5) activi-  ties were devoted to ethnical groups, women's rights  and migrants; racial problems were of particular  - 406 -     BUDGET COMMISSION  importance. À certain amount of success had  attended the campaign for enlightening the public on  race problems. In 1955-56 a great part of the  resources of the Department would be devoted to  problems of social changes, under project 3.6, with  special attention to those caused by rapid economic  development. It was also proposed to establish a  centre of applied social science for use as a task  force in the service of Mernber States tc help them  in their planning of econo:nic and social development.  Finally, in project 3.7, a series of evaluation  projects was envisaged to serve international action  programines and also to assist other departments of  Unesco and the United Nations. Unesco's function  would be to establish techniques which could later  be included in the routine administration of such  programmes as libraries, fundamental education,  fellowships and seminars, in order to test their  efficiency.
(43) The applied social sciences programme was  concentrated on a few problems where an acute need  was manifested. Since it was to be carried out in  many regions and with the co-operation of local  personnel, it would indirectly also lead to increased  training and the promotion of internationalism.
(44) Mr. ANGELL (United States of America) said  that he had intended to submit a proposal on race  relations combining the resolutions of the Indian and  Czechoslovak delegations (DR/5 and DR/72) together  with an addition on behalf of his own delegation  (DR/105 rev.). In the circumstances, he proposed  that the three resolutions should be discussed  together, or that discussion should be deferred until  he had prepared the combined resolution, or that the  matter should be referred to a plenary meeting.
(45) Mr. RAO (representing the Director-General)  proposed that the matter should be submitted to the  General Committee for decision.
(46) Mrs. PINTO DE VIDAL (Uruguay) asked that  the motion put forward by India (document 8C/DR/5)  be discussed immediately by the Commission, since  she could see no reason for postponing its  consideration.
(47) Mr. SUNDARAM (India) said that it would be  appropriate to discuss the resolutions in the Com-  mission because of their budgetary implications.
(48) At the suggestion of Mr. RAO, it was decided  to postpone discussion until the night meeting.
(49) Mr. STEINIG (United Nations) proposed, in  order to save time, to speak on a number of  connected projects. Confirming a statement made  by the Director of the Department of Social Sciences,  ever closer co-operation was developing between  that department and the corresponding divisions of  the United Nations Secretariat, and the United Nations  was relying more and more on the Department of  Social Sciences for basic research into the many  complex problems with which it had to deal.
(50) With regard to the integration of ethnic groups  in Africa, the United Nations was interested in the  project and looked forward to receiving systematic   PROGRAMME AND  information on its development and preliminary  results.
(51) An important part of Unesco's work and one of  particular interest to the United Nations was the  section dealing with social sciences and the problems  of social development, and social sciences and  evaluation techniques; both subjects had a bearing  on the programme of technical assistance to under-  developed countries. From the history of the  industrialized West it was known how high -  cuasidering the human factor - was the price paid  for industrialization and how deep were the structural  changes brought about by it in Western society.  Unesco's research should help to avoid the repetition  of that experience in lands to be newly developed,  He hoped that special attention would be paid to  research on methods to promote successful transition  from traditional to modern society, including the  problem of changing from rural to urban life.
(52) Other fields of common interest to the United  Nations and Unesco were the project on the social  problems of industrialization in South Asia and the  proposed symposium in Latin America. In connexion  with the latter, the United Nations Economic Com-  mission for Latin America was planning a seminar  in 1956 on economic development and he looked  forward to co-operation and joint action hy Unesco  and ECLA.
(53) The United Nations would also welcome infor-  mation on the relation of local self-government  to community development, resulting from the  studies proposed under paragraphs 201, 211 and 230.  In that connexion, he referred to a resolution passed  at the thirteerth session of the Economic and Social  Council and called actention to the shortage of infor-  mation on lccal authorities for social and economic  development observed by the United Nations in  preparing a report on community welfare centres  and community development projects; he was con-  vinced that consultations between Unesco and the  United Nations on the selection of areas for surveys  would help both organizations in their work.
(54) Finally, in the important study of the social  aspects of land reform, the United Nations, after  consultation with Unesco, had welcomed co-operation  between that Organization and the competent  departments in the United Nations.  Project 3.5: The social sciences and problems of  human rights and minorities
(55) Mr. SCOTT (United States of America), who  said that he was a member of the United States  Congress, claimed to represent a nation which had  found that persistent and courageous facing of  problems brought about substantial results.
(56) Freedom and non-discrimination were linked  with the search for security and peace in the world,  and non-discrimination as it was understood in the  United States of America implied freedom to speak,  think, meet together, write and publish.
(37) The section of Unesto's programme dealing  with human rights and non-discrimination was  important, and continued work was needed to improve  conditions in many parts of the world. Much still  remained to be done concerning the position of the  negro in the United States of America. A recent  - 407 -     BUDGET COMMISSION IV-20  study sponsored by Unesco had indicated that a  difference still existed between the standing of the  negro citizen and the white citizen, but that in  almost every sigruficant economic, political, educa-  tional and social aspect there had been rapid  improvement.
(58) At the present time ten per cent of Americans  were negroes, but negroes represented eleven per  cent of industrial workers, and the high proportion  in industry was an indication of the negro's progress,  for he now commanded a wage four times higher than  in 1940, while the rise for the average population  was only two-and-a-half times. Some negroes were  now landholders and wealthy business men, they  worked in banks, public utilities, insurance com-  panies and retail stores; and followed the professions  of physicist, chemist, psychologist, doctor and  metallurgist. They were a vital factor ir local,  State and national government, had been selected to  city councils, State legislative bodies and to Congress.  They also served as State and Federal judges and  held important city, State and Federal government  positions, including the post of Assistant Secretary  of Labour.
(59) While in 1900 fifty-s:x per cent of the negro  population was illiterate, in 1940 ninety per cent  were literate. Nine out of ten attended school and  at the present time 128,000 were at college. Negro  professors served on the faculties of more than  seventy United States colleges.
(60) A significant muestone in negro progress was  the Supreme Court decision in May 1954 declaring  segregation in public education to b: « denial of the  equal protection of the laws guarar..eed by the United  States Constitution. That declaraticn was a measure  which was truly effective within the meaning of  paragraph 167 of Unesco's programme on social  sciences, and it 1llustrated the need for continued  progress towards the elimination of discriminatory  practices.
(61) In the United States of America, efforts would  not cease until all discriminatory practices were  eliminated, and his delegation supported the develop-  ment of a constructive and effective programme for  Unesco, to be implemented by Member States as  well as by the Secretariat.
(62) Mrs. PINTO DE VIDAL (Uruguay) congratulated  the delegate of the United States of America on the  cheering and most satisfactory state of affairs he  had described; she added that Uruguay would give  its support to any move for promoting the campaign  against discrimination between human beings,  because it believed that the only way of advancing  the peace and unification of the world was to open  the doors to everyone in the political, social,  economic and cultural spheres.
(63) Mr. SUNDARAM (India) introduced a resolution  which his Government had submitted in document
8C/DR/8, calling upon Unesco to initiate a world  campaign against the evils of race discrimination,  as an integral part of its programme. He had been  inspired by the account of the progressive reduction  of racediscrimination inthe United States of America,  unfortunately, there were stillzreas inthe world  where it not only persisted but was being intensified.   PROGRAMME AND IV-20
(64) There could only be one opinion in Unesco on  race discrimination, which was a disaster to huma-  nity, and he submitted his resolution in the conviction  that it would receive unanimous approval. No effort  or expenditure could be too great for the implemen-  tation of the resolution, and Unesco, 1n impelling  action by those who at present merely paid lip  service to principles, would be the spokesman of  world conscience.
(65) Mr. SEDES (France) gave the French delega-  tion's support to the draft resolution submitted by  India (document 8C/DR/8).
(66) In view of what other speakers had said  regarding their own countries, he wished to remind  the Commission that France had conferred the status  of French citizens on all the inhabitants of its  overseas territories. They thus enjoyed all the  rights and liberties established in the Constitution,
(67) Mr. UMREIKO (Byelorussian Soviet Socialist  Republic) supported the Indian resolution and  deplored the continuance of racial discrimination  despite all efforts to combat it. No government  which respected the principles of democracy could  permit national persecution in any form, and all  races, however small, must have equal legal and  moral rights in governmental, social and cultural  life. Before the 1917 revolution the Byelorussian  SSR had had a low economic and cultural standard of  life, with eighty per cent of the population illitera*=.  Since that date, conditions had improved until at the  present time equal rights were enjoyed in every  field, and illiteracy was no longer existent. Racial  discrimination was one of the most serious threats  to human dignity and he hoped that the resolution  would receive unanimous approval.
(68) Mr. ANGELL (United States of America) sup-  ported the Indian resolution but asked if the  amendment proposed in document 8C/DR/105 (rev. )  would be acceptable.
(69) Mr. SUNDARAM (India) had no objection to the  revised and enlarged form of the resolution, but  pointed out that his original resolution had been  formulated to permit of immediate action by Unesco,  since Unesco had not sufficient funds to deal with all  aspects of discrimination simultaneously. He  accordingly proposed the following addition at the  end of the revised version: 'beginning with an  intensive study of racial discrimination in the next  two years".
(70) Mr. ANGELL (United States of America)  accepted the proposed addition.
(71) Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom) sup-  ported the proposal and the amendment, but stressed  that a campaign must be carefully planned and of a  practical character, and not limited to propaganda.  He welcomed the statement of the Uruguayan delegate  on the political position of women,
(72) Mr. STEP.NBERGER (German Federal Republic)  expressed whole-hearted supported for the resolution.  His country had experienced a particularly evil form  BUDGET COMMISSION  of discrimination which, although deliberately and  falsely described as racial, had in fact heen the  organized murder of a minority. He supported the  revised version as amended by the delegate of India.
(73) Mr. AFTALION (Argentina) said that his  delegation strongly supported the Indian proposal for  undertaking a campaign against racial discrimina-  tion, he also asked whether the other types of  discrimination mentioned under project 3.5 should  not be dealt with at the same time.
(74) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) said that the  Board had warmly approved the proposed action for  eliminating all forms of discrimination. It would  also welcome the fact that a member of the United  States Congress had come to Unesco to speak of his  country's progress in the struggle for freedom and  equality. She wished to place on : ecord that the  members of the Board considered the Supreme  Court decision referred to by the United States  delegate as one of the most significant landmarks in  the march of humanity. It gave inspiration for  further efforts in the prosecution of Unesco's  programme for the elimination of discrimination in  any form.
(75) In conclusion, the Executive Board had recom-  mended the deletion of the word "racial" from the  resolution DR/8.
(76) Mr. VITO (Italy) supported the Indian proposal  as revised and amended, but urged that, whatever  might be the meaning attached to the word "campaign",  any activity undertaken should be scientifically  planned. Propaganda and pamphlets alone served no  useful purpose.
(77) Mr. ZAMORANO HERNANDEZ (Chile) agreed  with the delegate of the United Kingdom that the  approach to the problem of racial discrimination  should be methodical, for it deserved very serious  study. For that reason, the Indian motion should be  most carefully examined. Nor should it be forgotten  that there were other kinds of discrimination in the  world, equally ugly, though they might be more  subtle.
(78) Mr. FLORES AGUIRRE (Mexico) said that his  country, with its long and honourable tradition of  opposition to racial discrimination, naturally  sympathized with the unanimous feeling in favour of  the Indian motion, but he, too, thought that the  proposed campaign should be scundly planned, in  order to achieve practical and satisfactory results.
(79) Mr. BRANDAO CAVALCANTI (Brazil) supported,  enthusiastically but not for sentimental reasons, the  resolution submitted by the Indian delegation and  broadened by the United States amendment.
(80) Brazil had shown long since that it was possible  to reach a clear and satisfactory solution to the  problem of discrimination in regard to race, sex,  and even in the political field.
(81) He added that a law had just been passed 1n his  country instituting penal measures to deal with  infractions of the rules of non-discrimination  prescribed by the Constitution.    - 408 -   PROGRAMME AND
(82) Mr. WIDDOWSON (Union of South Africa) was  not satisfied with the emphasis placed on racial  discrimination in the resolution; a study of the  documentation assembled by Unesco on inter-racial  tensions showed the operative words to be "scientific  study". Several delegates had questioned the use of  the word ‘campaign’, and to the South African  delegation the proposal appeared to be a deviation  from the scientific approach and lable to lead to  action 1n the political field. His delegation would  therefore abstain from voting.
(83) Mr. THA MYAT (Union of Burma) read out a  paragraph which the Burmese delegation had  proposed for addition to paragraph 174. The pro-  posal had been circulated in document 8C/DR/96.
(84) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences) said that the plan of work in connexion with  the original resolution 8C/DR/8, which it was hoped  would apply to the amended resolution if adopted,  was as follows:
(85) First, an information campaign through mass  media at Unesco's disposal for which no additional  budget would oe required.
(86) Second, existing pamphlets, which had already  had a wide distribution, veuld be translated into  other languages. For that purpose an additional sum  of $8,000 would be neede. to be made available to  National Commissions interested in such translations.
(87) Third, a larger campaign, prepared by social  scientists and educationalists, to plan measures for  eradicating discrimination through the schools, for  which a budget of about $11,000 would be required.
(88) In orde. to prevent overlapping with the work of  the United Nations Sub-Commission on Discrimina-  tion and Minorities, she asked if the Indian delegate  would accept the following redrafting of his  amendment to the revised version of the resolution:  “undertaking in 1955 studies espec:ally on  measures for eradication of racial præjudice".  Emphasis would thus be placed on positive measures  rather than studies of actual cases of discrimination,  which had a political implication.
(89) With regard to the addition to paragraph 174  submitted by the delegate of Burma, she gave an  assurance that the Director-General would bear it in  mind when executing the programme. A vote was not  called for, however, since it concerned only the plan  of work.
(90) The delegates of India and the United States of  America accepted the redrafting suggested by the  Director of the Department of Social Sciences.
(91) The resolution was adopted, the South African  delegate abstaining from voting.
(92) Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom) asked  whether the additional budgetary allocation neces-  sitated by the adoption of the resolution would have  to be found from other parts of the budget.
(93) Mr. RAO (representing the Director-General)  said that the Commission's duty was to approve a  project on its merits. It was for the Director-  General to discover how the necessary funds could  be obtained.  - 409 -     BUDGET COMMISSION IV-20
(94) The budgetary implications of the resolution  were unanimously approved (DR/8 and paragraphs
174-180)  Women's political rights and political education  (paragraphs 181-183)
(95) Miss RAILEY (Liberia) said that the pattern  prevailing in West Africa could well fit into the  project for the integration of ethnic groups. The  impact of industrialization and urbanization on the  tribal units resulted in a social evolution which would  be of interest to the Department of Social Sciences.  The recommendations of the Abidjan Conference and  the Stanleyville Report should be implemented, and  the Liberian delegation urged that Unesco should  give them due attention.
(96) With regard t= women's political rights, the  Liberian delegation supported whole-heartedly the  project in paragraphs 181-183, but hoped that Africa  would one day have the benfit of a similar project.  It had taken the women of Liberia almost a century  to gain their rights, and they had only been granted  the vote in 1944. At the present time women held  importan* governmental positions and had an equal  participation with men in social and political affairs.  There was still, however, considerable need for  improvement.
(97) Mrs. LEGARDA (Philippines) said that the  project under discussion was of great interest to the  women of tha Philippine Republic. The Pan-Pacific  Women's Association, of which she was President,  was preparing an international conference of women  in the Pacific area in 1958 with financial support  from Unesco. One of the items discussed would be  the results of the proposed pilot project in Asia, As  representative of half a million women in a country  where women 1 eld many Important positions, she  looked forward to the results of the pilot project,  which would be of great value in deciding the best  methods of impr oving women's participation in local,  civic and political affairs.
(98) In conclusicn, she was proud to have a tellow  countrywoman on the Executive Board of Unesco, and  point=d out that, with the inclusion of two women  among the candidates for the Executive Board,  Unesco at its eighth session of the General Confe-  rence had an opportunity for giving a lead in the  elimination of discrimination be‘ween the sexes.
(99) Mr. SEDES (F -ance) regretted that there had  been no discussion cf paragraphs 174-179 before the  vote was taken on the budgetary implications.
(100) After apologizing for having to go back to the  question, he expressed his astomshment that the  problem of the integr: tion of African ethnic groups  into a more advanced -ulture was dealt with in the  section on race relaticns, which was scarcely the  proper place for at.
(101) Mrs. MYRDAL (Mrector, Department of  Social Sciences), referring to the observations of  the delegates of France ind Liberia, said that the  activities in question cot ld equally well have been  included under paragrapt 206, and it was only as a  matter of presentation that they had been included   IV-21 PROGRAMME AND  separately. T..e projects under paragraph 175 had  been started in 1953-54 under Studies on Discrimina-  tion. In future work, however, the studies of ethniu  groups would have to be considered together with  those in paragraph 206.
(102) Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia), referring to  paragraph 176, said that it would be preferable to  study the impact of Western culture and economy on    BUDGET COMMISSION  the African ethruc group as a whole, rather than the  impact of one African group upon another. Whether  or not one group was Westernized, the impact came  from outside and not from within
(103) A vote was taken on paragraphs 181-183 and  they were approved unanimously.  The meeting rose at 1 p.m.  TWENTY - FIRST MEETING
1 December 1954 at 3 p.m,  Chairman: Mr. THA HLA (Union of Burma)  later: Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland)  ITEM 8.4.2 OF REVISED AGENDA : WAT RAL SCIENCES-  (continued)  Resolution 2.41 (paragraph 145) (continued)
(1) The CHAIRMAN askcd the Commission to resume  consideration of paragraph 145, which had been  discussed at the meeting before the last.
(2) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  thought he could end the previous day's misunder-  standing by clarifying the situation.
(3) He drew delegates! attention to document
8C/DIV/129, which showed a difference of $59, 992  between the 1953-54 appropriations for the Science  Co-operation Office in New Delh{ and the 1955-56  estimates. That figure was very close to the  $60, 000 on which the vote had been taken.
(4) After briefly recalling the facts, Mr. Maheu said  that, as the result of a remark by one of his  colleagues on the interpretation which the Indian  delegate might have given to the word “present” when  asking for the post to be maintained at its present  level, he had thought he had made a mistake in  quoting the figure of $60,000, He had beiieved that  the Indian delegate had been asking on behalf of the  Delhi Office, not the present (1954) appropriation of  $95, 580 for two years, but those now proposed for
1955-56, i.e. something like $150, 000 for the two  years. If that had been so, the difference compared  with the Director-General's estimate would have been,  not $60, 000, but around $120, 000. He had thought it  necessary to inform delegates accordingly.
(5) If the Indian delegation simply wished the Office  to be maintained at the 1953-54 level, the sum voted  upon was correct, and there was no need to go back  on that vote.
(6) The CHAIRMAN thanked Mr. Maheu for his  explanation and informed him that, at the morning  meeting, the delegate of Liberia had withdrawn his  statement of the previous night. He thought that the  - 410 -     Commission could consider the question of the  Indian Office settled.
(7) Mr. HOPE (United States of America) asked  whether the project had been re-established at the  level of the 1953-94 budget, pointing out that if that  were so, the amount of money provided would be  inadequate for the successful operation of the Office.  He had understood that an additional sum of  $150, 000 over and above the amount provided for in  the 1953-54 budget would be required for its  successful operation.
(8) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  confirmed that, with $60, 000 in addition to the  appropriations suggested by the Direcior-General,  the Delhi Office cculd be maintained n+ **< < == __  level (1953-54).
(9) He recallad that the abolition of the Office had  been suggested in order that larger sums might be  allocated to the three other science co-operation  offices. Though wishing to increase the efficiency  of the offices, the Director General and the  Director of the Department of Natural Sciences had  not felt able to ask for larger appropriations for all  of them, and had thought that the best solution would  be to close the Office in the most highly developed  region.
(10) Mr. Maheu said that the situation resulting  from the decisions taken was as follows: three  science co-operation offices would receive consi-  derably larger appropriations, while the fourth, the  Delhi Office, would be maintained at its present  level with the help of the $60, 000 to be added to the  Director-General's budget estimate.
(11) Mr. HOPE (United States of America) was  satisfied with the explanation but not satisfied that  the Commission was acting in accordance with the  plan for remodelling the programme. He thought  that the line taken by the Commission was contrary  to the policy of concentrating on fewer projects in