6 December 1954 at 9 a.m.  Chairman : Mr. ZAVALA MUNIZ (Uruguay)  {1) Mr. MONTAGNIER submitted document 8C/BUR/
3 (rev. ) containing the work plan for 4-12 December
1954, and pointed out that it would require some  slight modification.
123 The Advisory Committee on Programme and  Budget would meet that afternoon, 6 December, if  the Programme and Budget Commission had com-  pleted consideration of Part II, Chapter 7 of the  proposed programme and budget in the morning.
(3) The election of the 22 members of the Executive  Board was to take place at the plenary meeting of
7 December in the afternoon. If only one ballot were  required, the Conference could pass to item 16 of its  agenda - decision on the place of the ninth session of  the General Cunference - and commence study of the  report of the Committee on Reports of Member States.
(4) Mr. Montagnier then stated .hat, at its final  plenary meeting, the Conference would have to con-  sider draft resolutions 8C/DR/4 and 8C/DR/120,  submitted by India and China respectively (item 20 of  the agenda).
(5) Mr. BEEBY announced that the report of the  Administrative Commission, an extremely volumi-  nous document, had not yet been distributed to its  members. If, as a result, the Commission did not  finish its consideration of the report that morning,  he asked if it would be possible for it to hold a short  meeting in the afternoon.
(6) Mr. MONTAGNIER suggested that the Adminis-  trative Commission should meet between 3.30 and
4.30 p.rn. during the plenary meeting, and before  the meeting of the Nominations Committee, which  was to take place, also in Room 2, at 4.30 p.m.
(7) Approved.
(8) Mr. KABIR proposed that there should be only  one and not two meetings of the Nominations Com-  mittee, and that its nominations should be submitted  straight to the plenary Conference, without any  interval. The Nominations Committee might meet  the following morning, 7 December at 9.30 a. m.,  reporting to the plenary Conference at 12,30 p.m.  He proposed that, if possible, the Nominations Com-  mittee meet in the main Conference Hall, where  there was more room for balloting.
(8) Mr. SHARIF fully endorsed the views of the  Chairman of the Nominations Committee regarding  the desirability of eliminating any interval between  the meetings of the Nominations Committee and the  plenary Conference. However, referring to the two  procedures outlined in No. 2 on page 2 of document
8C/NOM/40, he pointed out that the procedure pro-  posed was materially different from that of previous  years; as the whole list was automatically open, he  did not see why there was any need for the Nominations  Committee to meet at all,
(10) Mr. BOURGEOIS preferred the system proposed  in document 8C/NOM/40, and did not think that the  votes of the Nominations Commitee and of the General  Conference duplicated each other. It seemed, more-  over, desirable that delegations should be able to  exchange views between the two ballots.
(11) Replying to the delegate of Pakistan, the  DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained that, if his proposal  was to be effective, the Rules of Procedure would  have to be changed. The whole purpose of the Nomi-  nations Committee was that it should reduce the  number of candidates before the elections took place  in plenary Conference. Although it was true that the  work of the Nominations Committee was only partially  effective, since the plenary Conference could take up  and adopt rejected candidacies, the Nominations  Committee was obliged, under the Rules of Procedure,  to meet and make nominations. As for the interval  between meetings, he pointed out that, on previous  occasions, the two operations had taken longer than  half a day. With regard to the suggestion that the  Notninations Committee meet in the main Conference  Hall, the Directcr-General reminded the delegate of  India that it was a closed meeting and limited to one  representative of each delegation. He thought that it  would be difficult to exclude the public from the main  Conference Hall.
(12) In view of the Director-General's explanations,  Mr. SHARIF said that he would not press his proposal,  but might make a suggestion to the General Conference  at its ninth session.
(13) Mr. HAGUIWARA asked how long it would take  to count the votes. He pointed out that 22 names  would have to be read each time from the 60 odd voting  papers of the delegations. He suggested, therefore,  that the Nominations Committee should meet that  afternoon solely for discussion, and vote the folowing  morning. In that way the interval between its vote  and that of the General Conference could be redu :ed.
(14) The CHAIRMAN replied that, ir the Secretariat's  estimation, the voting procedure would take about an  hour and a half.
(15) Mr. KABIR was perfectly willing to accept  the decision of the Secretariat, if it considered  - 261 -   m-11 GENERAL  it unsuitable to hold the meeting of the Nominations  Committee in the main Conference Hall.
(16) With regard to the remarks of the delegate of  Japan, Mr. Kabir urged the General Committee to  support him in ruling that discussion in the Nomina-  tions Committee be !imited to matters of procedure.  He was most anxious that the Committee should not  embark upon a discussion of the merits of the various  candidates and countries. As far as geographical  distribution was concerned, Unesco had already  established a workable formula, and he would be loth  to see it disturbed. Members of the Nominatiors  Committee might simply be asked to bear in mind  that Latin America, Eastern Europe and Asia all had  strong claims to the two additional seats. He there-  fore requested the delegate of Japan to withdraw his  proposal for a discussion.
(17) Mr. HAGUIWARA fully sympathized with the  wishes of the Chairman of the Nominations Committee.  He hoped there would not be too much discussion  about the merits of candidates; the Chairman of the  Nominations Committee might appeal to the Committee  in that sense. But he considered that a discussionon  geographical distribution and on the election pro-  cedure was more or less inevitable, If two ballots  proved to be necessary, it would be difficult to finish  in one morning.
(18) Mr. BOURGEOIS agreed with Mr. Haguiwara's  suggestion. He also pointed out that in the main  Conference Hall each speaker had to go to the ros-  trum, which slowed down debates considerably.
(19) Mr. VERONESE did not think that the General  Committee could settle beforehand how the discus-  sions within the Nominations Committee should be  conducted. Whatever the General Committee might  desire, it was difficult to foresee how those discus-  sions would proceed. He considered that it was for  the Nominations Committee to decide, at the  suggestion of its Chairman or one of its members,  not to engage in a discussion on this or that point.
(20) Mr. SPILHAUS seconded the proposal of the  Chairman of the Nominations Committee that the.  latier's discussions be limited to matters of proce-  dure.
(21) Mr. HAGUIWARA asked the Chairman of the  Nominations Committee whether he was prepared to  accept the following programme:  Meeting of the Nominations Committee on 6  December at 4.30 p.m., it being understood that the  Committee would not vote until its meeting on the  morning of 7 December.
(22) Mr. KABIR pointed out that, until the voting  actually started, new names could be submitted; any  discussions beyond that of matters of procedure »  would therefore be inconclusive. He had been  startled to hear a suggestion that, to some extent,  personalities could be discussed. The curriculum  vitae of each candidate would be before the Committee  and all the candidates were very distinguished people,  so that there was no need for the Committee to waste  time in eulogizing. He therefore asked the General    COMMITTEE  Committee to agree that he move from the Chair that  no individual candidates should be discussed.
(23) Mr. LEROY associated himself with the Indian  delegate's request. A discussion of the various can-  didates' merits would occupy more than an hour; and  as the candidatures were already kr.swn to the Con-  ference, such a discussion was unnecessary.
(24) Mr. SHARIF seconded the proposal that the  Nominations Committee meet in the afternoon to hear  the Chairmen and the Legal Adviser explain the pro-  cedure, and to consider the matter of geographical  distribution. A discussion limited strictly to  procedural matters could then be held. The candidates  would then be elected the following morning, the  plenary Conference meeting imniediately after the  Nominations Comraittee had completed its work.
(25) Mr. KABIR replied that the procedure outlired  by the delegate of Pakistan was entirely acceptable to  him.
(26) The CHAIRMAN, summing up, said that the  General Committee was agreed that the discussion  within the Nominations Committee should deal with  procedure and not with the personalities of candidates,
(27) The General Committee would make a recom-  mendation to the Nominations Committee accordingly.
(28) There remained for further discussion the pro-  posal of the Pakistani delegate that the Nominations  Committee should hold a first meeting and, after the  first ballot, suspend it for twenty minutes, continuing  afterwards until it finished its work.
(29) Mr. MONTAGNIER pointed out that delegates  had already been informed that the plenary meeting  for the election of the Executive Board would take  place in the afternoon of 7 December. As certain  delegates were absent, it would be difficult to inform  them in time if the meeting were to be held in the  morning.
(30) Mr. KABIR observed that there was great force  in what the Secretary had said. He did not believe  however that, even if three ballots were necessary in  the Nominations Committee, the meeting would last  more than three and a half hours. He therefore pro-  posed that the plenary Conference meet ir the  afternoon at 3 p.m.
(31) The CHAIRMAN proposed that the Committee  should conclude its work in the morning and that the  plenary meeting be held early in the afternoon. He  asked if there were any objections and, there being  none, that proposal was unanimously adopted.
(32) Mr. HAGUIWARA thought that arrangements  might well be made for two plenary meetings on 11  December; but, as several delegates hac already  arranged to leave Montevideo, it seemed desir-  able for the session to end before 1 p.m. He  accordingly suggested that the Nominations  Committee meet in the afternoon of 10 December,  instead of in the morning of 11 December, to  make recommendations on the composition of the  smaller committees for the ninth session.  - 262 -   GENERAL
(33) Mr. MONTAGNIER thought that, having regard  to the decisions which had just been taken with a view  to expediting the work, Mr. Haguiwara's suggestions  could be accepted.
(34) The CHAIRMAN announced that the Director-  General had received the sum of $5, 503, being the  amount of Bolivia's contribution in 1952. Conse-  quently, Bolivia was fully entitled to vote at the  General Conference and in all its Commissions.
(35) Mr. MONTAGNIER reminded the Committee  that the French delegation had withdrawn draft  resolution 8C/DR/114. The Colombian delegation  now intended to assume sponsorship of that draft  resolution; but, under Rule 78 (3) of the Rules of  Procedure, that proposal should have been submitted  before the end of the seventh day of the session. It  was therefore for the General Committee to decide  whether the provision should be waived.
(36) Mr. RUIZ-GIMENEZ was in favour of the pro-  vision being waived. It was most desirable to  encourage international friendship among children,  such a welcome proposal should not be obstructed for  mere reasons of procedure.
(37) Mr. KABIR seconded the proposal of the delegate  of Spain, particularly as it had no budgetary impli-  cations. Any project designed to bring children of  the different countries closer together was welcome.  He recalled that a competition of children's paintings,  in which seventy countries had participated, had been  organized in India.
(38) Mr. BERNAL JIMENEZ said that most delega-  tions had, since 1950, made great efforts to secure  Unesco's acceptance of that move in favour of  children. He himself had done no more than sponsor  it,’ and was in no way responsible for it; that being  so, he invited the General Committee to arrange for  such procedure as would enable it to be adopted,  although it might involve difficulties, particularly of  a budgetary nature.
(39) The Committee could deal with the proposal in  the way best calculated to secure its approval, an  approval which would be a fitting reward for the  generosity and tenacity of its proposer.  COMMITTEE     IH-11
(40) Mr. HAGUIWARA enquired whether the draft  resolution in question had any budgetary implications.  If, moreover, the General Committee agreed to waive  the provisions of Rule 78 (3), the proposal should be  studied either by the Administrative Commission or  by the Programme and Budget Commission.
(41) Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS pointed out that it was  not for the General Committee to discuss the merits  of the proposal and that it was too late in the session  to refer it to the appropriate organ of the Conference.
(42) Mr. BEEBY was sure that all members of the  Committee were much in sympathy with the Colombian  proposal, but he agreed with the delegate of the  United Kingdom that it was too late to submit it to the  Advisory Committee or to either of the big Commis-  sions, Moreover, it was not a new proposal, since a  resolution on the subject had been adopted by the  General Conference at Florence in 1850. It was  therefore not an urgent matter, and he proposed that  it be deferred until the ninth session of the General  Conference.
(43) Mr. BOURGEOIS moved that the resolution be  transmitted to the Secretariat as a suggestion, under  the procedure already applied in the case of a number  of proposals which had arrived late.
(44) Mr. Bourgecis' proposal was adopted.
(45) Mr. MONTAGNIER said that the representative  of the YMCA had asked to address the plenary Con-  ference on the occasion of his Association's centenary.  The General Committee had already decided not to  permit representatives of non-governmental organiza-  tions to speak at plenary meetings, unless it was on a  matter within their competence.
(46) It was decided not to grant the YMCA represen-  tative the authorization requested.
(47) Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS enquired what was  proposed with regard to draft resolutions 8C/DR/4  and 8C/DR/120.
(48) Mr. MONTAGNIER replied that they would be  considered at the final plenary meeting.  The meeting rose at 10 a, m.