PLENARY MEETINGS 1-15  The report you have just heard is now open  to debate. If no one wishes to speak, I shall take  a vote on the interpretation proposed by the Legal  candidate's name does not appear in the list submit-  ted to the General Conference by the Nominations  Committee. It ais: ~onsiders that it is in order to  submit a nomination up to the time when the bailot Adviser.  is opened in the General Conference. (43) Will those in favour please signify their
(41) This last part of the report, Mr. President, approval?  does not entail any resolution; it is merely an  opinion expressed by the Legal Committee, which (44) Adopted.  the General Confere-ce is free to accept or to reject.   (42) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish): The meeting rose at 4.20 p.m.  FIFTEENTH PLENARY MEETING
7 December 1954 at 4 p.m.  President: Mr. ZAVALA MUNIZ (Uruguay)  CONTENTS  Report of the Nominations Committee on the election of mem-  bers of the Executive Board . . . . . . ... .. ee... 187  Decision on the place of the Ninth Session of the General Con-  ference, on the report of the Executive Board (document
8C/6)........ Pee eee Che eee 0 0 eee. 189  Election of 22 members of the Executive Board (documents
8C/DIV/145, 8C/DIV/133) ... .. 188 eee 0 1 006 . 194  REPORT OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE ON THE of Ecuador, 64 votes; 4. Mr. Spilhaus of the  ELECTION OF MEMBERS OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD United States of America, 64 votes; 5, Mr. Ferrara  Marino of Cuba, 62 votes; 6. Mr. Laugier of
(1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish}: France, 62 votes; 7. Mr. Sharif of Pakistan, 62  I call upon the Chairman of the Nominations Commit- votes; 8. Mr. Awad of Egypt, 61 votes; 9. Mr,  tee. Berredo Carneiro of Brazil, 61 votes; 10. Mr.  Mudaliar of India, 60 votes; 11. Sir Ben Bowen
(2) Mr. KABIR (India) (Chairman of the Nominations Thomas of the United Kingdom, 60 votes; 12. Mr.  Committee): Mr. President and fellow delegates: | Veronese of Italy, 58 votes; 13. Mr. Haguiwara  present to you the report of the Nominations Commit- of Japan, 55 votes; 14. Mr. Estelrich of Spain,  tee. 54 votes; 15. Mgr Maroun of Lebanon, 53 votes:
(3) At the meeting held this morning it was found 16. Mr, Massaquoi of Liberia, 53 votes; 17. Mrs.  that the number of Member States entitled to vote Schlueter-Hermkes of Germany, 51 votes; 18. Mr.  was 72. Four were absent. Of the votes cast one Bender of the Netherlands, 48 votes; 19. Mr.  was an abstention and one was invalld; there were Nielsen of Denmark, 44 votes; 20, Mr. Solodov-  therefore 66 valid votes recorded; consequently, nikov of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, 42  the number of votes constituting the required majority votes; 21. Mr. Johannes sf Indonesia, 41 votes;  was 34, 22. Mr. Malakul of Thailand, 41 votes.
(4) After the ballot was counted the Nominations (5) These are the twenty-two recommendations.  Committee put forward the following 22 candidates In addition, there are Mr. Piaget of Switzerland,  as persons who have the recommendations of the who secured 39 votes, and Mrs. Rodriguez of the  Committee. In addition, two more candidates se- Philippines, with 35 votes  cured the required number of votes: (6) The Nominations Committee also wanted it to
1. Mr. Raadi of Iran, 65 votes; 2. Mr. Secco be brought to the notice of the Conference that the  Ellauri of Uruguay, 64 votes; 3. Mr. Martinez Cobo Conference might decide on the appropriate procedure    - 187 -   I-15  to be adopted when the number of candidates securing  more than the requisite number of votes exceeds the  number of vacancies.
(7) The PRESIDENT ( Translation from the Spanish):  After hearing the report presented by the Chairman  of the Nominations Committee, I think that, with  regard to the question he raised at the end, there  are two courses open to us: either the Rules of  Procedure can be amended or, should the Conference  prefer, a simple vote can be taken, on the under-  standing that if in any ballot the number of candidates  securing the majority required exceeds the number  of vacancies, the candidates obtaining the largest  number of votes shall be elected.
(8) However, if two or more of the candidates  obtaining the largest number of votes obtain the  same number and are competing for one or more  vacancies, a new vote will be taken,  will decide whether this procedure is correct and, if  it decides to adopt it, will do so by a simple vote.  In order to shorten the proceedings, I propose that,  if the Conference has no objection, a vote be taken  on the procedure just suggested.
(9) Approved, with one abstention,
(10) Before we come to the election, I would like to  ask whether any of the candidates whose names were  read out by the Chairman of the Nominations Com-  mittee wish to withdraw or whether they all maintain  their candidature.
(11) In the latter case, we will proceed with the  election, in accordance with the report of the Chair-  man of the Nominations Committee.
(12) 1 call upon the delegate of Switzerland.
(13) Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland) (Translation  from the French): In order to avoid any possible  misunderstanding, and in view of the large number  of votes secured this morning in the Nominations  Committee by the Swiss candidate, Mr. Piaget, I  should like to say that the Swiss delegation feels it  to be its duty to support the candidature of Mr.  Piaget, which was put forward by the Swiss Govern-  ment, Mr. Piaget is therefore a candidate for the  Executive Board,
(14) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) (Translation from  the French): Mr. President, 1 attended the meeting  of the General Committee, at which you yourself  presided, and, if I understand rightly, document
8C/NOM/40 was approved. Page 2 of that document  contains the following:
2. Ballot papers  Delegations will be able to choose one or other of  the followirg two methods of voting:  (i) Delegations wishing to vote for the 22 candidates  presented by the Nocminat.ons Committee will place  in an envelope the list of the 22 names presented by  the Committee:  (ii) Delegates wishing to vote for candidates not on  the list presented by the Nominations Committee  may use the full list of candidates as a ballot paper,  placing a mark opposite the names of 22 candidates,  PLENARY  The Conference     - 188 -  ETINGS
(15) In fact 1 have only found one list, with 30  names; the list containing 22 names has not been  distributed to delegations. ! should like to know  whether this decision by the General Committee  has been annulled.
(16) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Span-  ish): The Secretariat informs me that, owing to  the hour at which the meeting of the Nominations  Committee ended and its resolutions were approved,  there was no time to prepare the lists; also, that  the Nominations Committee presented 24 names,  and not 22.
(17) I therefore suggest that the full list of candi-  dates be used, as the Conference decided, by placing  a mark opposite the names of 22 candidates. If the  Conference agrees, this procedure will be followed.  I call upon the delegate of Poland,
(18) Mr. MICHALOWSKI (Poland): Mr. President,  it might appear from what you said that we have to  vote only for those 22 or 24 candidates who obtained  the majority this morning. I should like to make it  clear that we are completely free to vote for any  delegate who is a candidate on the list before us.
1 stress this because ! still maintain the nomination  of the Polish delegate, Professor Wierbluwski, who  was voted upon this morning.
(19) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Span-  ish): That is correct. Delegates may vote for any  candidate whom they think suitable, from among  those on the list of thirty.
(20) I call upon the delegate of Japan.
(21) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) (Translation from  the French): Mr. Przsident, you have just said  that the Nominations Committee had proposed 24  names. If 1 understood the Chairman of the Nomi-  nations Committee aright, he mentioned 22 names,  adding that two more candidates had secured the  required number of votes; the number of names  proposed is therefore 22 and not 24. Ir these cir-  cumstances I do not understand why there is no list  of 22 names, as mentioned in document 8C/NOM/40,  which was approved by the General Committee. If  the Secretariat has not had time to prepare this  second list, ! formally propose that the meeting  should be adjourned.
(22) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Span-  ish): 1 call upon the Chairman of the Nominations  Committee.
(23) Mr. KABIR (India) (Chairman of the Nomina-  tions Committee): Mr. President and fellow dele-  gates, I want to make it clear, as I also stated in  the morning, that no elections have beer held by  the Nominations Committee. Therefore you cannot  say that anybody has been elected there, The  Nominations Committee, on the results of the  ballot, ha- proposed 22 names for the consideration  of the General Conference. In addition, it has  reported that two other candidates secured more  than the required majority.
(24) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the   PLENARY  Spanish): 1 call upon the representative of Cupa.
(25) Mr. ICHASO (Cuba) (Translation from the Span-  ish): Mr. President, the Cuban delegation supports  the Japanese delegation's view that it is essential,  for purposes of the vote, to have two lists - one  containing the 22 names approved by the Nominations  Committee and the other containing the names of all  the candidates - so that delegations can choose  between two methods of voting, the first following  the Committee's proposal and the second completely  independent. But the procedure itself has been  settled; we have approved it; and I do not think that  the Conference should go back on its decision. The  reason that the Secretariat has not had time to dis-  tribute the list does not seem to me to be adequate.  I think that the meeting should be adjourned so that  the Secretariat can prepare and distribute the list.  We shall then be able to vote properly. I submit this  proposal formally to the Conference.
(26) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  The question is before the Conference for its consi-  deration. As the Japanese delr ‘ate's motion, which  has just been supported by the ban representative,  was the earlier, it is submitted to the Conference;  it is, that the meeting adjourn in order that the work  of the Nominations Committee may be completed and  the two lists prepared.
(27) We will now vote on tie adjournment of this  meeting for one hour in order that the Nominations  Committee may complete its work.
(28) The Japanese delegate's motion is approved,  by 35 votes in favour, 20 against and 5 abstentions.
(29) I call upon the delegate of Canada.
(30) Mr. PIERCE (Canada): I should like to know  whether we were voting on the adjournment of this  question only or of the whole meeting, We have  other questions on the agenda.
(31) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  If the Conference thinks that it can continue with the  consideration of the other items on the agenda, it  is for it so to decide.
(32) I call upon the delegate of Egypt.
(33) Mr. HUZAYIN (Egypt): 1 beg to move that we  continue our work and do not interrupt it at the  present moment. We had enough of the election  question this morning, sitting for three and a half  hours on it. It would be useful to get on with our  work, and J am sure the Secretariat will do their  very best to get the new list prepared for us while  we continue. In that way we shall not waste time.
(34) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  If there is no objection, the meeting will continue.  DECISION ON THE PLACE OF THE NINTH SESSION OF THE  GENERAL CONFERENCE, ON THE REPORT OF THE  EXECUTIVE BOARD (drcument 8C/6)
(35) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Sparish):  - 189 -     MEETINGS 11-15  I call upor the Chairman of the Executive Board  to make a statement on item 16 of the vevised  agenda.
(36) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Execuuve  Board): Mr, President, fellow delegates, the  Rules of Procedure lay down that on the proposal  of the Executive Board the General Conference,  during its ordinary session, shall fix the seat of the  next session. You have in document 8C/6 the re-  solution of the Executive Board:  "The Executive Board  Considering Rules 2 and 3 of the Rules of Pro-  cedure of the General Conference,  Considering that the Government of India, by  letter dated 20 August 1954, invited the Organiza-  tion to hold its ninth sessior in 1956 in New Delhi,  India,  Considering the report (document 39 EX/5) on  division of responsibilities and costs of a session  of the General Conference between the host country  and we Organization and on material facilities  available in New Delhi,  Recommiends to the General Conference that it  hold its ninth session in New Delhi, Irdia,  Recommends that this session should open in  November 1956."
(37) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Span-  ish): The Executive Board's proposal is before the  Conference.
(39) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) (Trans-  lation from the French): Mr. President, fellow  delegates, when this question was discussed by the  Administrative Commission I ventured to say that  the Latin American countries claimed the honour  and pleasure of being the first to support the pro-  posal that the next session of the General Confer-  ence should be held in New Delhi.
(40) In so doing they would be giving a token of  their gratitude towards all the delegations which  had travelled from the confines of Asia to these far  regions of Latin America, to pool their efforts and  ideals in a spirit of international co-operation. 1  ventured to recall that it is by moving about the  world in this way that Unesco impresses itself on  the minds of the peoples, and I also referred to the  similarity in their economic and moral development  which, for centuries past, has bridged the great  distances between the peoples of Asia and the peoples  of America.
(41) The PRESIDENT (Transiation from the Span-  ish): I call upon the delegate of the United States  of America.
(42) Mrs. HEFFELFINGER (United States of  America): Mr. President and fellow delegates:  It gives me great personal pleasure to tell you that  the United States o! America whole-heartedly  supports the Government of India's invitation to  hold the ninth session of the General Conference =?  Unesco in New Delhi. My delegation iooks forward  with enthusiasm to bringing the people of the United  States of America, through their delegation to that   I-15 PLENARY  Conference, into close touch with the people of India  and, in consequence, to conveying to the people of  India our warmest expressions of frien \ship and  regard.
(43) The selection of a piace in Asia convenient to  all Asians is a fitting recognition of the great con-  tribution which the people of Asia make to the work  of Unesco. It causes us to realize the great contri-  bution they have made in the past, and will continue  to make in the future, We are all well aware of the  significant contribution to man's progress which has  been made by the peoples of Asia, particularly in  the spirituai and cultural spheres.
(44) We in the United States of America are proud  that « ir culture is the result of an accumulation of  the cultures of the world, brought to our country by  each of the representatives of Unesco here. We are  proud of the fact that the United States of America  is a land and a people which are receptive to new  ideas, spiritual, cultural and otherwise, and we  have confidence in the building of our great country  througn these ideas. We are anxious to know the  peoples of Asia, even better than we do now, and  we believe that this will bring about the betterment  of mankind and will further peace. In asking that  our next General Conference be held in a country of  Asia, it seems to me that we are taking a tremendous  step towards bringing the peoples of the world closer  together in bonds of friendship, goodwill and mutual  confidence. This may help to bring us nearer to  that great ideal of peace which all of us so ardently  believe in, I take great pleasure in seconding the  motion put by Brazil to hold the ninth session of the  General Conference in New Delhi.
(45) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call upon the delegate of Uruguay.
(46) Mr. SECCO ELLAURI (Uruguay) (Translation  from the Spanish): Mr. President, fellow delegates,  our delegation warmly supports the proposal that the  next session of the General Conference of Unesco be  held in New Delhi. I should also mention that the  Executive Board of Unesco, when it considered this  question, decided by a unanimous vote in favour of  the proposal. To those who may, for apparently  serious reasons, have doubts concerning the wisdom  and legitimacy of this request by India, it should be  pointed out that, superficially, there would seem to  be two objections to it - one legal and the other  financial.
(47) The legal obstacle .> the following. The Con-  stitution, by which we are bound, originaliy stipu-  lated that sessions of the Conference should be held  alternately in Paris and elsewhere. A new system  was later introduced, urder which sessions of the  Conference could, but would not necer sarily, as at  first, be held away from Paris. Ac-ording to this  system, it would therefore appear that since on this  occasion the Conference is held in Montevideo, it  should be held next time in Paris. That, it seems  to me, is the legal obstacle. The other, which has  come to light during our deliberations, is financial.  If the Conference were held in Paris it would involve  less expense; if it were held in New Delhi it would  apparently be extremely expensive. If it were held  in Paris the estimated expenditure would be $234,000,  MEETINGS  as against $548, 000 for New Delhi. A comparison  of these iigures shows that the l.olding of the Con-  ference in India would entail an increase ri more  than $300, 000 in Unesco's budget, over which we  have kept such careful watch,
(48) But these two obstacles are in fact illi sory.  Neither is really valid on this occasion. Tael gal  objection does not hold for :ae simple reasun that  the Unesco headquarters building in Paris c…ot  be finished in 1956; and according to Secretariat  spokesmen, the present Unesco building is no  longer adequate for sessions of the Conference,  which are attended by steadily larger numbers.  The new building will not be ready, and any attempt  to expedite its construction would entail an extra  cost comparable to, or even higher than, the  $300, 000 increase involved in holding the Confer-  ence in New Delhi.
(49) Further, with regard to (is figure - if there  is still any room for hesitation - I do not think it  quite accurate. I believe that the Secretariat, with  understandable caution, has calculated the figures  at their maximum, without taking into account  reductions which are likely to occur later. But  that is not all. There is another most important  consideration: Unesco's itinerant policy - if I may  so call it - of leaving its permanent headquarters  in Paris to travel about the world, providing an  opportunity for these world-wide parliaments of  minds to be held in other countries, is extremely  useful from the standpoints of inform .tion and  propaganda. It is particularly yaluable in that it  familiarizes people with Unesco in a way that even  the best organized and most coc:ly propaganda  through books or pamphlets could not do.
(50) Again, it is a tremendous help to propaganda  in the country where the Conference is held, and  not in that country alone but also among its neigh-  bours. This was the case in Montevideo, as the  time for Unesco's visit drew near. Despite all our  publicity, the hearts of our compatriots had not up  to then been stirred in Unesco's cause, but the  actual presence of the Organization har produced  a veritable wave of interest, and an ardent desire  for information. And, in referring to Montevideo,
1 believe that what I say applies to Latin America  as a whole. To Latin America, this visit has been  a feast for the mind. Why should Asia be denied  the same privilege - distant Asia which Unesco has  never visited in its previous journeyings? It has  visited the Middle East, at Beirut; another  European country, at Florence; northerr Latin  America, at Mexico City; and the southern part  of that cultural region, at Montevideo, omitting  from its journeys outside Europe only Asia. This,  gentlemen, is Unesco's only opportunity of going  outs’de Europe. Once the headquarters building in  Paris is finished, Unesco will probably remain  ar. hored for a long time in Europe. This is Asia's  last and only opportunity of being visited by Unesco.  For this reason I began by saying that we warmly  and enthusiastically supported the proposal. And  in this I am in no sense swayed by my personal  feelings or tastes. I have acted as a delegate,  putting my professional conscience first. For, had  I been considering this question as a private person,   I would not have had the slightest hesitation. 1 have  - 180 -   PLENARY  bad the good fortune to visit New Delhi, to see for  myself its archaeolog.cal treasures, the riches of  its past, the splendour of its present, and ” glimpse  the promise of its future.
(51) I still see ir my mina’s eye the Mogu! palaces,  those eloquent testimonies to India’s rôle in the past  as a cradle of culture, And ! am still amazed by  the stupendous social experiment now being carried  out in the sub-continent of India.
(52) For me as a private person, then, this problem  raises no doubts. And, though this is not a matter  of interest to my fellow delegates, ! would say -  following the example cf the King of France who  remarked that Paris was well worth a Mazs - that  New Delhi is well worth an cflort on your part.
(53) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):
1 call upon the delegate of Japan.
(54) Mr. SAWADA (Japan): Mr. President and  fellow delegates; On betalf of the Japanese dele-  gation, I have great pleasure in supporting the  proposal of India to invite Unesco to hold the next  session of the General Conference in New Delhi.
(55) As you all know, eight years have passed since  the birth of Unesco and eight General Conferences  have been held in succession, but none of them has  been held in Asia. Japan, for one, has long been  des‘rous of seeing such a conference held in our  part of the world. Naturally we were much pleased  when we heard of the intention of India to invite  Unesco to hold the next session of the General Con-  ference in {ts capital. I am inclined to think that  this proposal will be unanimously adopted and that,  with your approval now and here, the next General  Conference will be held in India in two years' time.  In that case, I am confident that it will prove to be  an eveni, not only in the development and promotion  of Unesco's activities in Asia, but also in th: annals  of Unesco itself. I may tell you on this occasion that,  not long after its establishment about three years ago,  our National Commission for Unesco passed a reso-  lution urging our Government to take steps to invite  Unesco's General Cunference to Tokyo and favourable  consideration was given thereto by our Government  at that time. Owing, however, to circumstances  entirely beyond our contr.»l, Japan has not been able  to make a definite proposal on this subject to the  General Conference. Thus, cherishing that hope as  we do, Japan is only too pleased to see the next  session of our General Conference held in & friendly  country not very far from us. With time-honoured  cultures of jmmense profundity, India, as you know,  is also establishing a solid position in the fields of  science and education, and her contributions to the  cuuse of Unesco have been very large. In these  circumstances, I have every reason to believe that,  in the event of a happy decision being taken at this  Conference on this matter and of the next session of  the General Conference being held in New Delhi, it  will certainly be crowned with a signal success for  Unesco.
(58) It i= also of great significance that the firat  Unesco General Conference to be held on Asian soil  will coincide with the tenth anniversary of Unesco,  a very happy coincidence. Let us hope that it will  open a new and propitious chapter in the history of  - 181 -     MEETINGS 1-15  Unes: o and prove t> be an important milestone on  the rad of progress and development of our Organ-  ization, It is in this belief that my delegation  reiterates our warm support of the propoaal of India  to have the next session of our General Conference  in the beautiful capital of that country.
(57) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Span-  ish): I call upon the delegate of Egypt.
(58) Mr. HUZAYIN (Egypt): Mr. President, ladics  and gentlemen. My honourable colleagues who have  spoken before me have come mostly from the West  and the New World or from the Far East, It gives  me very great pleasure indeed, »nd I feel this from  the bottom of my heart and speak to you now as a  delegate from the ancient East, to give very warm  support tu the acceptance of this cordial invitation  from India.
(59) It has been said that the Conferences of Unesco  have been held in different parts of the world, in  different continents; ! beg to submit that India, in  a geoyraphical sense, is not only a country, a  Member State, but is a whole continent, a continent  by the size of its population, by ita diversified  culture, by its great history in the past, and, 1 am  sure, by its great history in the future, We all  have something in common with India. India is the  home of so-called South Asian culture, but that  cultural civilization of India has come into touch  with the various other cultures of the world. It has  been in touch with the Mediterranean since the days  of Alexander and his great campaigns. It came  again into touch with Western Asia and with tle  Arab and Islamic world, It came into touch with  the Chinese and the Far Eastern world, when the  Mogula and their culture penetrated India. Finally,  it has come into touch with the West in recent  centuries, When we go to India, therefore, we  shall find there something which belongs to every  one of us.
(60) India has a claim to a Conference, not only in  order that the Indian people may see Unesco ard  the work of this great world organization, India in  lier turn has a great contribution to make and has  an important lesson to teach to all of us citizens  of the world. In India we shall not only see the  traditional spiritual fruits of Indian culture, but we  shall also sce 1. great nation working and applying  scientific methods in order to rebuild itself. In  India, therefore, there wouid be a great chance  for all of us to see how the East is trying to imple-  ment its own peaceful methods of international  understanding and co-operation, May I therefore  be allowed, in supporting this motion, to couple  it with the wish that we adopt it unanimously, with  the feeling that we shall all be going to one of the  cradles of human cuiture in the past and to one of  the bright spots for human civilization in the future.
(61) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Span-  ish): 1 call upon the delegate of the United Kingdom.
(62) Sir Ban BOWEN THOMAS (United Kingdom):  Mr. President and fellow delegates, It is with  very great pleasure that I rise, as a delegates of  the United Kingdom, to associate myself, on behalf
1-15 PLENARY  of my fellow delegates, with this public profession  of our deep satisfaction that the next session of the  General Conference may be held in India, [ am sure  we shau all agree that this is in some measure a  tribute to the work done amongst us over the iast  six, seven and more years by the members of the  Indian delegation. No country has brough: a stronger  and more amply equipped delegation to tiie work of  this Conference than India. And it is a measure c!  the sense of responsibility of a Member State  towards this Organization that, in the selection of its  delegation, it should choose wisely, arnply and well,  We know that that has been constantly done by India.  There is full evidence of it in the fact that we have  always been glad to use their talents in responsible  Conference offices, We have been glad to ask their  delegates to be, in turn, Chairman of the Executive  Buard, members of the Executive Board and the  President of our General Conference.
(63) May I add that, as soon as it was known that  India proposed to invite the next Conference to New  Deuhi, Her Majesty's Government immediately  decided to give that invitation its whole-hearted  support. We are members of one family. We are  bound by ties which, though lighter than air, are  stronger than steel, ties, both of the spirit and of  the mind, that should grow stronger and stronger in  bringing the Member States together, Finally, may  I call your attention to the simple fact that this  Organization was born in the heart of the Common-  wealth and that, at the end of ten years, it will be  holding its General Conference within the territories  of another member of the Commonwealth. I can  think of no more valuable precedent than that every  ten years this Organization should decide to return  to the source of its inspiration and there derive  strength to go forward in its great work. ! am sure  that we all look forward with great satisfaction and  prospective happiness to the meeting of the General  Conference in New Delhi in two years' time.
(64) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call upon the delegate of Yugoslavia.
(65) Mr, MATIC (Yugoslavia) (Translation from the  French): Mr. President, the Yugoslav delegation  warmly and whole-heartedly supports the Indian  Government's proposal that our next session should  be held in New Delhi. I would also like to express  our hope that a decision in this sense will be taken  unanimously.
(66) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call upon the delegate of France,
(67) Mr. LAUGIER (France) (Translation from the  French): Mr. President, fellow delegates, a few  days ago, when the Executive Board still consisted  of independent members, I strove - and strove  strenuously - in my purely personal capacity to get  the next session of the Conference held in New Delhi,  ard I had the good fortune to contribute to the Board's  unanimous decisicn which is now before you.
(68) Today, as my country's delegate and for once  entirely in agreement with my Government, I can  tell you of France's unreserved wish io see the next  session of the Conference held in New Delhi.  - 192 -     MEETINGS
(69) We believe that the exchanges of persons  advocated in Unesco's programme constitute one  of the most important, lively and effective factors  in international understanding.
(70) Some years ago, at the United Nations, I strove  to get one of the sessions of the General Assembly  held in Paris. And | saw outstanding men arriving  in Paris - men of exceptional culture, belonging to  famous civilizations, who had never before set foot  in France, nor even in Europe. It was a revelation  to hem.
(71) Now, I ask you who are assembled here, how  many of you have seen New Delhi? It is very import-  ant that leaders in education, science and culture  should make contact with India, that great country,  with à stupendous past culture and civilization,  which, for demographic reasons, and for reasons  connected with its geography and its history, Is now  faced with extraordinary hu.aan problems, It is  very important that some token should be given of  world solidarity, and particularly of solidarity among  leaders in education, science and culture, ir favour  of India, The French Government is therefore  prepared to agree unreservedly, whatever the  financial implications, to the holding of the next  session of the Conference in New Delhi.
(72) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Span-  ish): I call upon the delegate of Belgium,
(73) Baron van der STRATEN WAILLET (Belgium)  (Translation from the French): Mr, President,  fellow delegates, in speaking for my Government
1 feel sure that I am also expressing the views of  many neighbouring and friendly European countries,  who will all be as delighted as we are to be able to  accept the Indian Government's invitation to meet  in New Delhi, two years hence, for the next session  of the Conference,
(74) Like the delegate of Uruguay, we also believe  in the advantages of Unesco's policy of moving about.  Man's nature being what it is, he only likes what he  is familiar with, It is surpcising to note how much  good a man who has travelled has to say about the  countries he has visited. For myself, I am con-  vinced that never have the praises of Uruguay been  sung throuzhout the world as they will be after this  eighth session of Unesco's Conference, and the  same will undoubtedly happen after the ninth session,  when we have been to New Delhi, Nor are these  journeys fruitless for ourselves. There is a saying  that travel broadens the minds of the young.  Obviously we are all young or we should not be here,  for on youth must fall the task of defending Unesco's  ideals,
(75) Not only for ourselves, but for the Organization  itself, there is no more effective way of making  Unesco's usefulness and its merits understood than  by putting it into direct touch with the different  peoples of the worid. We have sufficient proof of  this in the interest aroused among the entire popu-  lation of Uruguay by Unesco's meeting here. Like  me, you have doubtless come across many enthusi-  asts - from the man at the petrol pump or the hotel  keeper to passers-by in the street - who have asked  you to let them have our Unesco emblem as a sou-  venir of this splendid Conference.   PLENARY
(78) 1am particularly happy that this invitation  should come from a country like India, which has  given the world such a great cultural heritage. It  is undoubtedly to the interes: of all the cultural  groups in the world to get to know India better and  to make an effort - in the shape of this journey and  the few dollars! cost it will ir volve - to contribute  towards the achievement of ow common aim, which  is to seek for truth and to improve cultural and  spiritual standards throughout tae world.
(77) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call upon the delegate of Hungary.
(78) Mrs. JOBORU (Hungary): Mr. President,  fellow delegates. Allow me in the name of the  Hungarian delegation to echo the thoughts expressed  so eloquently by the delegates who have preceded  me, The Hungarian delegation also whole-heartedly  supports the proposal for the seat of the next Confer-  ence, We all know, and we have all seen at this  Conference, what an important rdle the Indian people  play in human progress and in the fight for peace.  We shal! be very glad of the opportunity to become  personally acquainted with the work and the fight for  peace of the people of India.
(78) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):
1 call upon the delegate of Spain,
(80) Mr. RUIZ JIMENEZ (Spain) (Translation from  the Spanish): Mr. President, fellow delegates, my  Government has pleasure in supporting the proposal  that the next session of the General Conference of  Unesco should be held in New Delhi, for the same  reasons that havc been so well stated by other dele-  gations and also because of the spiritual links which  for certuries past have bound us to those regions  where men of Spanish civilization also went to work  for culture. There is a further reason, adventitious  perhaps, that it was precisely in seeking a new road,  a new road to the region of India, that Spain found  the inestimable treasure of these American countries.  For all these reasons, we shall vote with satisfaction  and pleasure for the next session of the General  Conference to be held in New Delhi.
(81) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  As a result of the speeches we have just heard, and  in the belief that this is in accordance with the feeling  of the Conference, 1 propose that we vote on this  question by acclamation.
(82) The proposal is adopted unanimously.
(83) I call upon the delegate of India.
(84) Dr. MUDALIAR (India); Mr, President, ladies  and gentlemen. It would be ungracious on my part  if I were not to crave your indulgence, and that of  this Conference, while [ express in a few words the  thoughts uppermost in my mind and in my heart on  this unique cccasion. My delegation has  listened with the greatest amount of respect,  and with an amount of joy that it is not  possible for us to express in words, to the  various speeches that have been made by distinguished  - 193 -     MEETINGSB II-15  delegates from almost all parts of the globe, and  we rejoice indeed that our humble invitation to hold  the ninth session of this Conference in New Delhi  has been received with approbation by this august  assembly. When this proposal was mooted by our  National Commission, our Prime Minister Pandit  Jawaharlal Nehru, im 1ediately gave us his  unqualified support and asked us to place the  request before this Conference, and 1 am sure that  the result of this afternoon's proceedings will be  acclaimed in my country and in the neighbouring  countries of Asia with a satisfaction which it is  difficult for me to express in words. When the  heart is full, words somehow fail, as indeed they  must, I! ha, been a unique cxperience for my  delegation to have so much of kindness, so much of  consideration and so much of good feeling expressed  on the floor from all quarters, We look forward  with great rejoicing to the holding of the Unesco  Conference in New Delhi, for we are convinced,  as original members of this body and as a State  which has participated in all these conferences,  that, however little India can contribute to the  success of this Conference, it will indeed be a  great and unique event, not only for our country  but for the many countries of the region. It will  bring home to our people, to those forward looking  millions wno cherish the ideals of Unesco in their  hearts, how Unesco can hold a Conference and  thrill the imagination of the people of that part of  the country.
(85) Mr, President, during the last few weeks we  have had the umique privilege of holding this Con-  ference in your great city ard country and, believe  me, we sometimes doubt whether we can ever match  the delightful manner in which you have welcomed  us in every sphere of activity and whether we shall  be in a position correspondingly to fulfil the obliga-  tions that are put upon us in inviting you to our  country. But I can assure you, Mr. President, the  heart will be there and, whatever little defects  there may be, we are sure the Conference will  realize that India, in extending the invitation, had  but one object in view - to spread the message of  Unesco in ll parts of the world and to make the  people of the world more and more interested in  the great mission which Unesco has undertaken. It  is our heartfelt wish that, when the next conference  meets in New Delhi, we shall have progressed  much farther in building this, the global organiza-  tional State - that we shall have made more and  more ~ontacts, that we shall have come to realize  that, all said and done, man can be the most  immortal of persons in every sphere of mind and  body.
(86) They say that gratitude is a lively sense of  favours yet to come. I therefore express another  hope - that it may be possible for the distinguished  members who will assemble in New Delhi, not  merely to open the Conference there but also to  visit other parts of our country and some of our  other Member States. You will realize that it will  be a real interest of ours to get these great minds  into touch with the people of our country. It is our  hope, ladies and gentlemen, that all of you will be  in a position to spend a few more days at the con-  clusion of the session in New Delhi visiting the
11-18 PLENARY  many wcrth-while scenes in that part of the  world,
(87) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call upon the Director-General,
(88) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL: Mr. President, 1  think that, :f the Secretariat had been allowed to join  in the acclamations accompanying the decision to go  to New Delhi, you would have heard an even louder  noise than you did. I promise the Government of  India, on behalf of the Secretariat, that we shall do  our zealous best to prepare well the work of the  Conference in New Delhi. We shall work closely  and continuously with the Indian Government, in  order to make it possible for you to hold a very  successful Conference there. Having visited India  on two occasions, | can assure you that you who go  to New Delhi will derive very great personal pleasure  from attending the Conference there.  ELECTION OF 22 MEMBERS OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD  (documents 6C/DIV/t45, 8C/DI1Vv/133)
(89) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  The two ballot papers are ready for distribution to  delegates. We can therefore proceed to the vote on  the candidates for the Executive Board.
(80) In accordance with the Conference's decision,  delegates may vote either for the list of 22 names  proposed by the Nominations Committee, or for the  names they choose from the list of thirty presented  to the Conference,
(91) I call upon the deiegate of Israel.
(92) Mr, KUDOVY (Israel) (Translation from the  French): Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, we  should like to thank the countries which were good  enough to vote for the Israeli candidate this morning.  In face of the harsh realities of this world - from  which Unesco, despite its high ideals, is not exempt-  ed - your vote was a great consolation to vs, We  would, however, ask the Conference to note that  Israel has withdrawn its candidature; the name of  the Israeli candidate should therefore not appear on  the ballot paper containing thirty names,
(83) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call upon the delegate of the Philippines.
(94) Mr. DE LOS SANTOS (Philippines) (Translation  from the Spanish): Mr. President, fellow delegates,  the Philippine delegation wishes to express its warm  gratitude to all the delegations which voted for the  Philippine candidate. Realizing, however, that the  result of the preliminary vote taken this morning  expresses the wishes of the heads of delegations  here present, and acting as a people that recognizes  democratic principles and accepts the opinion of the  majority, we withdraw the candidature of our nomi-  nee and support the resolution presented by the  Chairman of the Nominations Committee, who spoke  at the beginning of the afternoon,
(95) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Spanish); 1 call upon the delegate of  France,  - 194 -     MEETINGS
(96) Mr. CABOUAT (France) (Translation from  the French): Mr. President, before we vote, the  French delegation would be glad if the following  facts could be confirmed:
(1) That, if neither list has priority over the  other, the two ballot papers now in the possession  of the different delegations have exactly the same  legal value;
(2) That it is understood that, on the ballot  papers distributed to delegations this morning, the  names of the Israeli and Philippine candidates  should be struck out by the delegations wishing to  use this ballot paper, and that the fact of striking  out these two names does not in itself invalidate  the ballot paper.
(97) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Span-  ish): 1 think that the delegate of France is right.  The fact of striking out the candidatures of Israel  and the Philippines, which have been withdrawn by  their own delegates, will not invalidate the ballot  papers; it has not been possible to correct these  because the withdrawal of the candidatures was too  recent, As far as the two ballot papers are con-  cerned, the only difference between them is that  one is the list recommended by the Nominations  Committee while the other includes the names of all  the candidates put forward. If the Conference has  no objection, this procedure will be adopted.
(98) It is approved.
(99) I think that the plenary meeting should be  suspended for a quarter of an hour, so that the vote  can be taken in due order. I also ask for tellers'to  be appointed to count the votes, and prcpose for this  purpose Mr. Ebbel, the Norwegian delegate, and  Mr, Matic, the Yugoslav delegate. If there is no  objection, we will proceed accordingly.  (The meeting was adjourned at 5.15 p.m. and  resumed at 5.35 p.m.)
(100) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Span-  ish): The meeting is resumed.
(101) I should remind delegates that, although two  ballot papers have been distributed, only one is to  be used for voting. Delegates who vote for the list  proposed by the Nominations Committee need not  place any mark against the names of candidates;  those using the other list should place a mark oppo-  site the names of the 22 candidates for whom they  vote. I would remind you that the ballot is secret  and that the papers should not be marked in any  other way.
(102) The results of the voting are as follows:  Number of Member States with the right to vote at  this meeting: 72, with 4 absent, 1 abstention and
2 spoilt papers. Number of votes cast: 65. Number  of votes constituting the majority required for  election: 34.
(103) The following are the names of the candidates  elected, with the number of votes secured by each:  Mr. Laugier (France): 65 votes;  Mr. Veronese (Italy): 65 votes;  Mr. Haguiwara (Japan): 64 votes;   PLENARY MEETINGS 1-16  Mr. Spilhaus (United States of America): 64 otes,  Mr. Awad (Egypt): 63 votes;  Mr. Ferrara Marino (Cuba): 63 votes;  Mr. Massaquoi (Liberia): 63 votes;  Mr. Raadi (Iran): 63 votes;  Mr. Sharif (Pakistan): 63 votes;  Mr. Bender (Netherlands): 62 votes;  Mr. Berredo Carneiro (Brazil): 62 votes;  Mgr Maroun (Lebanon): 62 votes;  Mr. Mudaliar (India): 62 votes;  Sir Ben Bowen Thomas (United Kingdom): 62 votes;  Mr. Secco Ellauri (Uruguay): 61 votes;  Mr. Martinez Cobo (Ecuador): 60 votes;  Mr. Bardales (Honduras): 17 votes;  Mr. Paik (Korea): 15 vutes.
(105) In accordance with the transitional provision  in the Rules of Procedure of the Conference, we will  now draw lots to choose, from among the 22 delegates  who have been elected members of the Board, the 11  who will retire two years after taking office.
(106) 1 ask the Chairman of the Nominations Commit-  tee kindly to draw the lots.
(107) As a result of the lots drawn by the Chrirman  of the Nominations Committee, the following mem-  be-s of the Executive Board will retire in two years'  Mrs. Schlueter-Hermkes {German Federal time:  Republic): 58 votes;  Mr. Estelrich (Spain): 54 votes;  Mr. Nielsen (Denmark): 51 votes;  Mr. Malakul (Thailand): 50 votes;  Mr. Johannes (Indonesia): 49 votes;  Mr. Solodovnikov (USSR): 48 votes,
(104) In addition, the candidates lam about to  mention received the following number of votes:  Princess Souvanna Phouma (Laos): 25 votes;    Mr. Bender (Netherlands)  Mr. Massaquoi (Liberia)  Mr. Solodovnikov (USSR)  Mr. Haguiwara (Japan)  Mr. Malakul (Thailand)  Mr. Mudaliar (India)  Mr. Sharif (Pakistan)  Mr. Ferrara Marino (Cuba)  Mr, Spilhaus (United States of America)  Mrs. Schlueter-Hermkes (German Federal  Mr. Piaget (Switzerland): 24 votes; Mr, Estelrich (Spain). Republic)  Mr. Vo Van Lua (Viet-Nam): 18 votes; «  Mr. Wierblowski (Poland): 18 votes; | The meeting rose at 7. t5 p.m.  SIXTEENTH PLENARY MEETING
8 December 1954 at 3.45 p.m.  President: Mr. ZAVALA MUNIZ {Uruguay)  CONTENTS  Consideration and adoption of the Report of the Committee on  Reports of Member States (document 8C/REP/1) . .. . .. 195  Considerationand adoption of the Report of the Administrative  Commission (documents 8C/ADM/35 and Appendix) . . . . 197  CONSIDERATION AND ADOFTION OF THE REPORT OF THE  COMMITTEE ON REPORTS OF MEMBER STATER (document 8C/  REP/1)
(1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  We shall consider the report of the Committee on  Reports of Member States, I call upon the Rapport-  eur, Mr. Hazoum.
(2) Mr. HAZOUM (Rapporteur) (Translation from  the French): Mr. President, in addressing this  Conference for the first time, I wish, first of all,  to state my heartfelt conviction that this eighth    - 185 -  session of the General Conference of  Unesco is a landmark in the annals of  the Organization - and, 1 might add, in  the history of mankind - in that it has  furthered Unesco's unfailing efforts to  increase understanding and hence also  friendship amongst men, and to extend  that international co-operation which should  lead to banishing the spectre of war  forever and wiping out other scourges  which enfeeble, when they do not actually  decimate, the ranks of mankind.