IV-22 PROGRAMME AND BUDGET COMMISSION  TWENTY - SECOND MEETING  ! December 1954 ac 9.30 a.m,  Chairman: Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland)  ITEM 8.4.3 OF REVISED AGENDA : SOCIAL SCIENCES  (Ccatinued)  DR/62 (rev. 2): Study preliminary to the establish-  ment of a training centre for international civil  servanis
(1) The CHAIRMAN said that this draft resolution  had been revised in agreement with the Iranian  delegation and was supported by the delegations of  France, Lebanon, the United States of America,  Switzerland and ltaly
(2) It was unanimously adopted without discussion,
(3) Mr. MUJEEB (India) remarked that tne resolu-  tion submitted by his delegation had not been dealt  with. Only the amenament had been adopted.  {4) The CHAIRMAN said that consideration of the  draft resolutions relating to the peaceful co-operation  of different forms of government submitted by India  (document BC/DR/5 (rev.)) and Czecnoslovaxia  (document 8C/DR/72) had been deferred until the  end of the discussion on the programme and budget  of the Department of Social Sciences.
(5) Mr. RAADI (Iran) asked that a correction be  made in the French text of the draft resolution  submitted by his delegation and just adopted: the  word "information" should be "informations".  Migrants (paragraphs 184-187)
(6) Mr. ESTELRICH (Spain), referring to paragraph
186, said that the Conference there mentioned -  although it seemed innocuou. - was to deal with very  difficult questions which affected the very essence  and well-springs of culiure and had important  rep.“cussions on the political relations between  peoples.
(7) From the human point of view, it could not be  stated in absolute terms whether assirrilation, i.e.  the loss of national characteristics, or the  preservation of such characteristics, was better.  In some cases, assimilation had produced good  results, but in others it had emasculated the genius  of the assimilated peoples. It therefore seemed  unlikely that practical measures for the cultural  integration of immigrants, such as those to be indi-  cated in the model handbooks which the Conference  was to consider, could be recommended for general  use,
(8) For those reasons, it seemed advisable, if  specialists from the principal countries of  - 418 -     immigration were to be asked to attend the Con-  ference, to invite specialists from the emigration  countri:s as well, in order to obtain a more  complete picture of the problem. He would like to  hear Mrs. Myrdal's authoritative views on that point,
(9) Mr. VITO (Italy) said firstly that Unesco's task  in connexion with migrants was to assure the pro-  tection of their cultural characteristics, while  keeping them 1n harmony with the cultural policy of  the immigration country. "Integration" he felt, was  a preferable word to "assimilation", the latter had  a slight flavour of imposition.
(10) Secondly, participants in meetings in the  Western Hemisphere should include representatives  of countries from which migration took place as weil  as those which received immigrants.
(11) Lastly, the delegate of Italy was surprised to  find that two methods had been combined in the same  resolution. The first part referred to discrimina-  tion, which everyone could agree to reject, while tae  second dealt with a real problem, that of migrants,  which needed much study and improvement.  {12) Mr. AFTALION {Argentina) said that one of  the most difficult and delicate tasks incumbent on  Unesco was to investigate the factors ei her pre-  judicial to the cultural assimilation of immigrants,  or conducive to their integration into the new  environment to which they had chosen to incve, he  thought that the study of the integration of immigrants  into their new environment should be based not only  on what the laws laid down but also on a practical and  realistic study of how the laws were applied and how  they affected people. That practical approach to the  problem gave cause for thinking that the United  Nations were doing all they could, to ensure the  success of the future Conference. To do so, it  would be necessary above all to bear in mind the  point of view of the nations which received immi-  grants and the ideologies obtaining there. The  Argentine Republic had gained much experience in  the matter, extending over a hundred years, as it  had received a steady influx of immigrants.
(13) Argentina would be very pleased for the Con-  ference to be held in its territory because “lie  experience it had gained might suggest interesting  studies in other countries.
(14) Mr. SANCHEZ REULET (Organization of  American States) said that OAS viewed with sympathy  and interest any activities calculated to solve the  migration problem, which was common to many  American States. For that reason he repeated the  offer already made regarding the possibility of that   PROGRAMME AND  Organization's collaborating in the preparations for  the Conference.
(15) lt should be noted that the Pan American Union's  Department of Economic and Social Affairs had  already carried out studies, especially in Venezuela,  where the problem was of great topical interest. He  considered that those studies might be used, and  hoped that the Department of Social Sciences would  bear that possibility in mind.
(16) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences) took note of all the suggestions made by  delegates. In particular, she agreed to adopt the  word "integration suggested by the delegate of Italy  instead of "assimilation".
(17) The CHAIRMAN recommended delegates to  confine their comments to the draft resolutions under  consideration and not to stray into the discussion of  paragraphs which merely set forth Unesco's work  plans.
118) Paragraphs 184-187 were put to the vote and  adopted.  H:gher Budgetary Level  Technical aid to Member States (paragraphs 188-190)
(15) Kesolution 3.53, was adopted, with 5 abstentions.  (The delegates of the USSR and Czechoslovakia  pointed out to the Chairman that abstentions should  not be left unrecorded.)  Project 3.6: Social sciences and problems of social  development (paragraphs 191-210)
(20) Mr. CABOUAT (Rapporteur, Advisory Com-  mittee on Programme and Budget) said that, during  its discussion of the item, the Advisory Committee  had been very favourably disposed towards the  various projects connected with research into the  consequences of industrialization, particularly in  South Asia, and had given them high priority.
(21) Mr. BRANDAO CAVALCANTI (Brazil) was  particularly interested in the suggested symposium  in Latin America (paragraph 208), but wished 1t to be  put forward a year, saying that the Economic Com-  mission for Latin America had agreed to such a  change. He asked for the opinion of the Lirector of  the Department of Social Sciences on that point.  {22) Mr. GUTIERREZ PALACIOS (Chile) was  surpris:d at the total omission from paragraph 202  of any reference to workers and their trade unions  in relation to such an important subject.
(23) He said that a rapid process of industrialization,  such as was taking place in his country, had reper-  cussions peculiar to such transitional periods, which  the working class had to endure - poverty and  unemployment in many thousands of homes. In that  connexion, tie Confederation of Free Trade Unions  was in a position to give much help.
(24) He therefore proposed that paragraph 202 be  amended so to mention the assisiance which the  international trade union organizations could give in  - 419 -     BUDGET COMMISSION 1V-22  the research and studies referred to in the  paragraph.
(25) Mr. MATIC (Yugoslavia) was very interested  in the draft resolution on the social sciences and  problems of social development in relation to  industrial development, and to productivity in  particular (paragraph 204). All the same, he thought  that a survey of the psychological factors affecting  productivity would be incomplete, for it was not  psychological factors alone which raised or lowered  productivity. There were also sociological factors,  whose importance was at present to be seen in  Yugoslavia, where economists and sociologists were  studying the effect of the handing over of factory  management to the workers.
(26) Mr. SEDES (France) thought that the list of  bodies which would take part in the research insti-  gated by the International Social Science Council  was rather restrictive so far as trade union organiza-  tions were concerned. The International Federation  of Free Trade Unions was mentioned, but the  International Confederation of Christian Trade Unions  had been forgotten. The French delegate asked that  trade union organizations, and in particular, the  International Confederation of Christian Trade  Unions be mentioned in paragraphs 202 and 205.
(27) The French delegate agreed with his Yugoslav  colleague that 1t was not enough to study the effect  of psychological factors alone on the development of  productivity. He also thought that the contents of  paragraph 204 bore little relation to its heading.
(28) Mr. VITO (Italy) supported the delegates of  Chile and France with reference to paragraph 195.  The resolution on the social impact of technological  change should be carried out in close touch with the  trade union movements associated with Unesco. The  same applied in the case of paragraph 205.
(29) Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia) referred to para-  graphs 202 and 203. Research in connexion with  problems arising in Africa South of the Sahara was  vital, and all the territories in that area should have  the opportunity of participating in it. The delegate  of Liberia wished to know to what extent associate  members of Unesco would be allowed to participate  actively in the work of that office, which might  become the nucleus of what would later be an  International Centre for Research on Social Problems  of Industrialization in Africa South of the Sahara.  {30) Mr. FORSYTH (New Zealand) questioned  paragraph 201. The world-wide survey proposed here  was a big task and the use 1t was to be put to was  not altogether clear.
(31) With reference to paragraph 207, the delegate  of New Zealand had some doubts as to how it was  proposed to define the “middle classes“, whose rôle  in economic development was to be studied.
(32) Mr. PAZUR (Czechoslovakia) held views  similar to those of the French delegate and asked  that the World Federation of Trade Unions be  mentioned in connexion with the survey of the  psychological factors affecting productivity.   IV-22 PROGRAMME AND
(33) With regard to paragraph 196, which referred to  the difficulties experienced by certain countries when  they tried to harmonize economic growth with social  development, he said that Czechoslovakia was a  highly industrialized country, but that one part of it -  Slovakia - had been industrialized only since the war.  The delegate described the new impetus to cultural  life to be observed in that region, mentioning in  particular that local folklore, which had previously  been considered merely as an amusement, had  become one of the most important cultural factors in  the social development of the Slovak peuple.
(34) Mr. WIDDOWSON (Union of South Africa)  welcomed the proposal in paragraph 203 but, as a  budgetary principle was involved, felt that the con-  sultations with the Commission for Technical  Co-operation in Africa South of the Sahara should  take place before further activities were undertaken.
(35) Mr. PRATT (Australia) raised only two doubts:  in connexion with paragraph 205, Unesco should be  cautious in embarking on the study of productivity in  view of the large number of agencies already active  in that field, and it would be preferable to begin with  a study of what was being done by other nations. He  asked Mrs Myrdal for an indication of the cost of  the activities in paragraphs 204 and 205.
(36) With regard to paragraph 211, Mr. Pratt  wondered why, since intensive investigations had  already been made,1n the field of community develop-  ment and were available, the item had been given  high priority.
(37) Mr. WARD (United Kingdom), in the absence of  the delegates of the Gold Coast and Sierra Leone,  felt justified in speakiig for them. They ould, he  said, wish for the opportunity of taking part in the  enquiry under paragraphs 202 and 203, On their  behalf he expressed agreement with the delegates of  Liberia and South Africa.
(38) Mr. BENVENUTO (Uruguay) wished to suggest  an addition to paragraphs 126 and 197 conceraing  the serious disturbances produced by technological  change. The proposed addition would read as follows:  "It is suggested to the Director-General that it would  be well to bring to the notice of Member States,  national parliaments and cultural, educational and  workers' organs in general, the need to give men  and women, as human beings and as workers, the  soundest and broadest education or general training  possible, firstly in order to give practical activities  their due place in human life and, secondly, to enable  men and women to assimilate, and adapt themselves  more quickly and efficiently to the unexpected tech-  nological changes which the incalcuiable growth of  science tends to produce at an increasing speed and  with repercussions ever more difficult to predict".
(39) Mr. SANCHEZ REULET (Organizaticn of  American States) said that his Organization's Depart-  ment of Economic Affairs could help in arranging for  the seminar on economic progress, referred to in  paragraph 208. He repeated the offer to that effect  made in a memorandum already communicated to the  Director of the Department of Social Sciences.  - 420 -     BUDGET COMMISSION
(40) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences) replied to a number of points raised by  delegates,
(41) Czechoslovakia: a number of studies of the  effects of industries had been undertaken by Unesco  and those effects were not all bad. Mrs. Myrdal  quoted the work edited by Margaret Mead, one of  Unesco's best sellers,
(42) Chile, France and Uruguay: she agreed with  the need for a wider co-operation with trade union  groups, pointing out that the work plan suggested  was no more than an indication, fur later development,
(43) Yugoslavia: Mrs. Myrdal agreed that the title  of paragraph 204 should have been wider in scope.  The paragraph itself covered the sociological factors  indicated by the delegate of Yugoslavia.
(44) Australia: a survey of research accomplished  elsewhere had actually been made by Unesco as a  preparation for this work plan, and had pointed to the  need for a certain type of study which was so far  lacking and which Unesco could provide, namely,  comparable studies and studies having more of a  sociological and cultural than an economic character.  Mrs. Myrdal mentioned as an example that several  Dutch firms with international branches had placed  their shops at the disposal of the Organization as a  kind of laboratory, and she proposed a comparative  study of that kind, which Unesco might undertake in  co-operation with The Hague Institute of Social  Sciences.
(45) New Zealand: Mrs. Myrdal referred to the  symposium, on the rôle of middle classes in the  Middle East, paragraph 207. That had been sug-  gested by groups 1n the countries of that region as  important owing to the emergence of a new class of  technicians, agronomists etc., the lack of whom was  a burning problem in the Middle East.
(46) Mrs. Myrdal then ansv'ered a question put by  the delegates of Australia and New Zealand cn  paragraphs 211-13, the study of local seif-govern-  ment. Although intensive studies had been made in  some countries, no comparative study existed. Tiere  was proposed first to make an extensive mapping of  the different forms of local self-government, after  which more intensified studies could be carried out  in certain countries. The United Nations represen-  tative had remarked on the eventual usefulness of  such studies for United Nations work on community  development.
(47) Finally, replying to the delegate of Brazil,  Mrs. Myrdal said that a symposium in Latin  America (paragraph 208) had been planned for 1956  but, if it became feasible in 1955, there would be  no objection on the part of the Secretariat. She  pointed out a small change with reference to  paragraph 203: the seminar referred to was to be  held mainly under FAO auspices, and another would  be nrganized jointly with ECAFE on problems of  urbanization.
(48) Mr. SASSEN (Netherlands) indicated his  Government's willingness to collaborate with Unesco  in research on any problems presented to The Hague  International Institute.
(49) Resolutions 3.61 and 3. 62 up to paragraph 210  inclusive were adopted without further comment.   PROGRAMME AND  Community development (paragraphs 211-213)  {document 8C/DR/55)
(50) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commission)  read out the last part of the draft resclution submit-  ted by the Uruguayan delegation on the subject of  teaching about human rights:  "The General Conference,  Authorizes the Director-General to promote a  study:  (a) of the economic, social and political circum-  stances militating against the establishment of the  rule of law and the practice of true political  democracy,  (b) of possible national and international  measures for ensuring the practical observance of  human rights and fundamental freedoms".
(51) The first part of the resolution concerned the  Department of Education.
(52) Mr. SEDES (France) proposed an amendment  to the draft resolution and wished consideration to  be given to a contract with the International Political  Science Association, which would be holding its  Congress in Stockholm in 1955. The French amend-  ment would add the following paragraph to the end  of the document:  "A contract will be concluded in 1955 with the  International Political Science Association to enable  it to pursue these studies and to extend the recruii-  ment of experts to attend the congress which 1t is to  hold on this question: 1955: $4,000",
(53) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences) said that the Executive Board and the  Advisory Committee had considered that studies  under (a) were to be recommended but that simul-  taneous studies under (b) would be technically and  scientifically impossibie. The French amendment  implied a reduction of the contract which might, on  the approval of the two bodies, be concluded with the  International Association of Political Science, from  $5,000 to $4,000.
(54) Mr. BRANDAO CAVALCANTI (Brazil) seconded  the amendment proposed by the French delegate.
(55) Mr. MATIC (Yugoslavia) congratulated the  Director of the Department of Social Sciences on the  clarity and precision with which the global survey of  existing forms of local self-government had been  planned (paragraph 211). He quoted examples of the  development of local self-government in his own  country, and added that such instances of communal  management had led to an economic democracy  embracing the traditional rights of the individual  as well as his economic rights. Several surveys on  the subject had been published in Yugoslavia, and  the Yugoslav National Commission would be happy to  collaborate in the project.
(56) Mr. WARD (United Kingdom), referring to  paragraph 211, enquired whether the title "commu-  nity development’ was not rather different from the  content of the paragraph, which dealt with local  self-government. Community development in the  - 421 -     BUDGET COMMISSION IV-22  United Kingdom had a technical significance as a  type of fundamental education.
(57) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) referred back to draft  resolution 55. Why could the $4, 900 contract not  come under paragraph 211 (iii) ?
(58) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of  Social Sciences) replied that the subject, although  related to the contents of the draft resolution, did  not cover the same territory.
(59) Mrs. Myrdal agreed with the delegate of the  United Kingdom that a longer heading for paragraph
211 would have been clearer; it was a survey of  local self-government which aimed at being of use  to community development.
(60) A vote was then taken on draft resolution No.
55 submitted by the Uruguayan delegation and  amended by the delegate of France, which was  adopted by 12 in faveur, 3 against and 8 abstentions.
(61) Paragraphs 211-213 were adopted without  comment.  Social aspects of land reform (paragraphs 214 and
(62) Mr. MENCEL (Poland) asked why a very small  sum was provided for 1955 and nothing for 1956  (paragraph 2 5). Would a transfer of funds be  possible, should the activities 1n question prove  important ?
(63) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of  Social Sciences) replied that the activities begun in  the 1953-54 period were not yet concluded. It was  further hoped that a meeting for co-ordinating all  work in the United Nations family on land reform  would be held in the spring of 1955 with the Food and  Agriculture Organization. Unesco proposed however  to render practical aid in that field under paragraphs
224 and 225.  International Centre for Research on Social  Problems of Industrialization in South Asia  (paragraphs 216-222)
(64) Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom) said  that conditions were not ripe for the establishment  of an Institute of Social Science in South Asia. Was  it wise to spend $67,000 in one year on a hypo-  thetical project, and how could results be obtained  so quickly as to be used to advise governments? He  hoped it would not mean tne reduction of the  International Research Office in Paris.
(65) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of  Social Sciences) said there would be no change in  the Paris Office nor would any permanent or general  kind of institute be set up in South Asia. Under  Aid to Member States, there was, however, room  for a normal extension of the work of the Paris  Office, offering aid in applying social sciences to  government planning. À work plan had been  prepared in great detail and had been discussed with  the Government of India. The International Social   IV-22 PROGRAMME AND  Science Council was fully in agreement with Unesco  on the point.
(66) Mr. W/ (India) regretted that the delegate  of the Uniteu ..1gdom was not sympathetic to the  creation of a Social Science Institute in South Asia.  A great many developments had taken place in that  part of the wo. 1d, and such an institute would help  it to avoid the errors made in the West during its own  development. India, as the country industrially most  advanced, was indicated for such a centre, and all  its neighbours wished a centre to be started there,
(67) Mr. ANGELL (United States of America) did  not share the pessimism expressed by the United  Kingdom delegation, but was not satisfied by Mrs.  Myrdal's reply. If the Centre was 10 be a permanent  one, he would oppose it, as he would oppose any  permanent Unesco centre on the subject.
(68) Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom) said  that he had not opposed the project but merely the  way it had been presented. Mrs. Myrdal had re-  moved most of his fears. He agreed with the  delegate of the United States of America that as a  temporary project it could be of advantage to all  concerned.
(69) Mr. SIDDIQI (Pakistan) supported the proposal  for establishment of the centre in South Asia and  announced that his Government would extend its  whole-hearted co-operation.
(70) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of  Social Sciences) explained that there were two parts  to the centre. The documentation centre would  remain in the host country, but the research centre  (which took up the bulk of the funds) was a temporary  one. The Government of India planned to meet one-  third of the costs.
(71) Paragraphs 216-222 were adopted.
(72) Paragraphs 233-235 were adopted without  comment.  Project 3.7: The social sciences and evaluation  techniques (paragraphs 226-242) .
(73) Mr. ANGELL (United States of America) had  three points to make. Firstly Unesco had a great  need for evaluation in many aspects of its work.  Secondly, evaluation meant more than an appraisal  or measurement of the degree of achievement of an  activity, however useful that might be. Unesco  wanted to know what means produced good results,  and that required comparison. Thirdly, there were  four proposals in the project. The first, on  libraries, was good but did not include the element  of comparison. He suggested research should be  carried out in an area with a library and in an area  without one, to provide comparison. The second  part of the project suffered from the same lack;  Mr. Angell suggested that in the next two-year period  further similar research be undertaken to provide a  comparison with the current one. The last two parts  of the project met his requirements, and the delegate  BUDGET     COMMISSION  of the United States of America commended them.
(74) Baron VAN DER STRAETEN WAILLET  (Belgium) proposed the addition at the end of  resolution 3.7, of the words: "as well as the  non-governmental orgamzations”.
(75) Miss RAILEY (Liberia) strongly supported the  evaluation of literacy campaigns and of the long-  range effects of international seminars. The  complex rôle played by literacy campaigns in  fundamental education in underdeveloped countries  needed close study. With regard to the second  evaluation, it would only be fully effective if carried  out at the same time as a series of follow-up  activities.
(76) Mr. PRATT (Australia) agreed with the  excellent remarks made by the delegate of the United  States of America on the evaluation project. The  sum of money allocated to it seemed a very reason-  able one. Mr. Pratt remarked that the cost of an  evaluation should bear some relation to the cost of  the project. He agreed with the importance given  to the development of techniques as well as to the  actual evaluation, and he also supported the delegate  of Belgium in suggesting that in the case of a lirge-  scale evaluation it would be a good idea for a totally  unconnected organization to undertake it.
(77) Mr. GANNON (International Sociological  Association) said that project 3. 7 was especially  interesting to all concerned with the study and  practical application of the social sciences, as it  dealt not only with the investigation of a practical  subject but with the discovery of a series of tech-  niques to enable the effeci.iveness and success of a  programme to be determined.
(78) He believed that no science and no branch of  study could be considered systematized unless its  techniques included processes for the quantitative  statement of results. Evaluation techniques were  also methods of asse: sing the factors which were  taken into account during the execution of a pro-  gramme, such as nationality, occupation, social  standing, age, mentality, etc.
(79) For the reasons set forth in paragraphs 231 and
241, he was not aware what evaluation techniques  were to be used in 1955-56 but, from the terms  employed in the budgetary justification, he took it  that they were to be those appropriate to the experi-  mental method, the principal forms of which seemed  suitable for the proposed operation of measurement  and assessment.
(80) He thought that the results of the work would be  fruitful, and as a sociologist, he personally looked  forward to having an instrument for precise control  and evaluation in social theory and practice.
(81) The Belgian amendment was seconded by  France and was approved,
(82) Paragraphs 226-242 were approved.  - 422 -   PROGRAMME AND  Higher Budgetary Level  Technical aid to Member States for evaluation of  development projects (paragraphs 243-" 6)
(83) Mr. CABOUAT (Rapporteur, Advisory Com-  mittee on Programme and Budget) said that the  Committee favoured more thorough study of the  question before action was taken upon it, and had  decided to recommend that the appropriation of  $12, 000 for 1955 be deleted and that the project  appear in the programme for 1956 only.
(84) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences) informed the Commission that the budget  estimates in question had been made on the basis of  requests received and which had had to be refused in  previous years (e.g. the Ceylon rural development  scheme). She suggested that, if any cuts were to be  made in the evaluation project, the Secretariat should  be left free to make them wherever it thought best.  The budget for evaluation of literacy campaigns, for  instance, was included under the Education chapter,
(85) Mr. PRATT (Australia) and Sir Charles  WEBSTER (United Kingdom) moved the suggestion  made by Mrs. Myrdal, which was adopted.  Amendment to draft resolution of India (8C/DR/5  rev.) and amendment of Czechoslovakia (8C/DR/72)
(86) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commission)  read out the text of these amendments (document
8C/DIV/131).
(87) Mr. HAJEK (Czechoslovakia) said that the  amendment proposed by the United States of America  was presented as an amendment to his delegation's  amendment (document 8C/DR/72). But the United  States delegation's text entirely ignored the idea of  peaceful coexistence and its application as proposed  in the Czechoslovak amendment.
(88) Mr. Hajek therefore did …ot regard the United  States amendment as an amendment to his own  - 423 -     BUDGET COMMISSION IV- 22  resolution but considered it a new resolution. If  the Commission took the American text as the basis  for discussion, the Czechoslovak delegation would  propose a new amendment to restore the essential  part of the contents of its own resolution.
(89) Mr. ANGELL (United States of America) said  that his delegation's amendment was less detailed  than the Czechoslovak one. The Commission could  choose between the two.
(90) Mr. MUJEEB (India) hoped that the Commission  would be able to agree on one resolution in order  that it might be adopted unanimously.
(91) Mr. FORSYTH (New Zealand) suggested that,  as there was still some difference of opinion on the  resolution, the d. Qates of India, Czechoslovakia  and the United States of America should prepare a  new text together, and submit it to the Commission  in the next day or two.
(92) Mr. STOLETOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) proposed that the question be discussed  at the next meeting, when his delegation would all  be present.
(93) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) requested the three  delegates in preparing their text, to bear budgetary  implications in mind.
(94) Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom)  supported that request.
(95) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) announced  that the decision of the Executive Board on draft  resclution No. 5 had been unfavourable.
(96) It was agreed to postpone the discussion until  a new draft amendment had been prepared by the  threc delegations concerned.  The meeting rose at 11.45 p.m.