V-12 ADMINISTRATIVE  Committee on Contributicns wanted the Commission  to give a ruling on the question of the rights of  States in arrears with their payments, but it was  not quite ready to do so,
(71) Mr, SOLDATOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) wanted the Commission to decide  forthwitF on the voting rights of Poland, Hungary  and Czechoslovakia.
(72) Mr, KOTSCHNIG (United States of America)  said that consideration of the voting rights of China  appeared on the agenda of the meeting and should  therefore be considered at once.
(73) Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) proposed that the  voting rights of all four countries should be dealt with,    COMMISSION
(74) ir. HAGUIWARA (Japan) proposed that the  voting rights of China should be considered there  and then, and those of the other three countries  at the afterpoon meeting.
(75) Finally, a motion by Mr. SOLDATOV (Union  of Soviet Socialist Republics) for immediate  adjournment and continuation of the discussion on  voting rights at the afternoon meeting was put to  the vote.
(76) The motion was adopted by 33 votes to 10,  with 5 abstentions.  The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m,  TWELFTH MEETING
22 November 1954 at 3 p.m.  Chairman  VOTING RIGHTS OF CHINA
(1) Opening the meeting, the CHAIRMAN announced  that the Commission had two items to consider:
(1) the voting rights of China, and (2) the report of  the Committee on Contributions on “he voting rights  of Poland, Czechoslovakia and Hungary. The  Chairman of the Committee on Contributions had  expressed the view that it would be unwise for the  Commission to discuss the second point until  members had the written report before them, The  item would accordingly b- deferred until the report  was available.
(2) Miss POLICARPIO (Philippines) pointed out that  the arrears in the payment of China's contribution  were due to circumstances beyond that country's  control, and the fact that it had riade a token  payment of $14, 000 was proof of a sincere desire  on China*s part to co-operate in the execution of  Unesco's programme, She therefore moved the  following resolution:  "The Administrative Commission recommends  to the General Conference that it decide to permit  China to vote during the eighth session of the  General Conference of Unesco in accordance with  paragraph 8 (c) of Article IV of the Constitution."
(3) The motion was seconded by Mr, HAGUIWARA  (Japan).  {4) Mr. HU CHING-YU (China) observed that while,  under paragraph 8 (b) of Article IV of the Constitution,  China was undoubtedly debarred from voting at the  - 566 -     Mr. BEEBY (New Zealand)  eighth session of the General Conference, the  Conference could have recourse to the remedy  provided in paragraph 8 (c) of the same Article. It  was on the strength of that provision that China had  been permitted to vote at the sixth and seventh  sessions of the General Conference, Unfortunately  China's financial situation had not improved since
1952, and the Chinese delegation again requested the  Administrative Commission to recommed to the  General Conference that it permit China to vote  during the eighth session, on the grounds that failure  to pay was due to circumstances beyond that  country's control,
(5) Mr. SOLDATOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) recalled that it had been stated several  times by several delegations that no representatives  with authority to vote for China were present at the  Conference, A decision in the sense advocated by  the delegation of the Philippines would therefore be  incorrect and would not further the cause of better  understanding and real co-operation between States  for the fulfilment of the high principles proclaimed  in Unesco's Constitution. On those grounds the  delegation of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics  would vote against the motion of the delegation of  the Philippines.
(6) Mr, KOTSCHNIG (United States of America)  recalled that the motion to reduce China's  contribution temporarily during 1955-56 had been  defeated that mormng by a very narrow margin of
24 votes to 22; that vote showed that a large  proportion of the Conference felt that China should   ADMINISTRATIVE  be given every opportunity to participate actively in  Unesco's programme, To enable China to do so,  however, the Conference must decide either to  reduce that country's contribution temporarily or  to make full use of the clause in paragraph 8 (c} of  Article IV of the Constitut on. Mr. Kotschnig very  much hoped that an overwkelming majority would  show itself in favour of the second solution. The  United States delegation accordingly seconded the  motion of the delegation of the Philippines.    COMMISSION V-13
(7) The motion of the delegation of the Philippines  was adopted by 28 votes to 12, with 2 abstentions,
(8) The CHAIRMAN tated that the report of the  Contributions Commitee on the voting rights of  Poland, Czechoslovakia and Hungary would be  included in the agenda for the following morning.  The meeting rose at 3,30 p.m.  THIRTEENTH MEETING
23 Noven ber 1954 atl0.15 a.m.  Chairman : Mr. BEEBY (New Zealand)  ITEM 9.4.4 OF REVISED AGENDA : CONTRIBUTIONS SCALE,  CURRENCY AND COLLECTION OF CONTRIBUTIONS OF  MEMBER STATES (documents 8C/ADM/30 A: d. 1 and 8C/ADM/32)  (continued)
(1) Mr. STERNBERGER (Chairman cf the Committee  on Contributions), introducing the addendum, said  that his Committee had been called upon to decide  how the arrears of three countries (Foland, Hungary  and Czechoslovakia), which had withdrawn from  Unasco and had recently declared their readiness to  co-operate once more with it, could best be paid.
(2) In the initial stages of its deliberations, the  Committee had been faced with letters from those  three countries claiming more or less full cancel-  lation of their arrears, The Committee had declined  to accept that, but all concerned had been prepared  for further negotiation. The resolutions now before  the Commission represented the fruit of ten days"  arduous deiiberation.
(3) Although negotiations necessarily had to cover  a wide field, the Committee had not been empowered  to decide that the three countries should be granted  the right to vote, Thence the onus of advising the  General Conference to adopt the lasi paragraph of  each resolution (on that point) lay on the  Administrative Commission iiself.
(4) It had been agreed in the Committee that the  three countries should pay by instalinents over  varying periods.
(5) The three countries had clairned that they had  not been members of Unesco during 1953, That was  à legal point which the Committee had not felt  competent to decide. A:cordingly, in the case of  two of those countries, it had merely considered the  question of contributions due for the years before
1953, so that the resolitions relative to Poland and  Czechoslovakia coverec the period up to 1952  inclusive. Hungary, however, had expressed  willingness to pay arrears incurred up to and  including 1953,
(6) All three countries had wished to be allowed to  make their payments in their national currencies  (see 1 (ii) in each resolution).
(7) An important point was that in I (121) of the  resolutions, the Director-General was asked to  report on the implementation thereof.
(8) Dr. MUDALIAR (India) expressed his appreciation  of the work done by the Committee and, seconded by  Mr, SOLDATOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics),  moved adoption of the resolution relative to  Czechoslovakia, including the last paragraph,  recommendiag that Czechoslovak:a should enjoy full  voting rights at the eighth session of the General  Conference.
(9) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL suggested that it  would be wise to amend the first line of i (iii) in each  resolution to read: "instructs the Director-General  to report to each ordinary session of the General  Conference .,."
(10) Dr. MUDALIAR (India) and Mr. SOLDATOV  (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics) accepted the  amendment,
(11) In reply to an enquiry by "Mr, ARTHUR  (Umted Kingdom), Mr, VANECEK (Czechoslovakia)  said that the Government of Czechoslovakia had  authorized his delegation to accept the settlement,
(12) Mr. SZABO (Hungary) stated that, in the course  of the discussions on the subject, his delegation had  expressed its willingness to pay ts arrears as  assessed,
(13) Mr. MICHALOWSKI (Poland) said that his  Government found the resolution relative to Poland  acceptable, His intention was to announce that fact  in the Plenary Confererce and to write to the  President of the Conference to that effect.  - 567 -