PROGRAMME AND BUDGET COMMISSION  SIXTH MEETING
29 November 19584 at 17 a m.  Chairman: Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland)  ITEM 2.2 OF THE AGFNDA CONSIDERATION OF THE REPORT OF  THE ADVISORY COMMITTEE AND GENERAL DISCUSSION OF THE  DRAFT PROGRAMME AND BUDGET FOR 1935-36 (continued)  (documents 8C'/PRG/13. 8C/BUD/2 and 8C/DR/86)
(1) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL opened the meeting  with a few general remarks, He was satisfied with  the basis on which the division of the programme  had been made in the draft budget, as explained in  the introduction, He pointed out that general  activities were not stable and were liable to change  according to resolutions of the General Conference.  He would welcome any suggestions in that field.  Special activities were defined largely in terms of  Conference decisions in a given session. The  degree to which the General Conference ought to  define special activities for the 1955-56 programme  and to ask the Director-General to be specific in  his proposals for succeeding programmes was a  difficult matter, It was undesirable to leave it  completely open, but it wa. .ui possible to be very  specific,
(2) The years 1957-58 would be transitional ones,  is the 1955-56 years were, and it would be unwise  to embark on more than one or two major projects,  although special projects, the Director-General  thought, would to some extent be absorbed by the  bigger ones,
(3) He referred to the confusing terms programme,  project and campaign, and suggested that a project  should be regarded as something precise which could  be organized and budgeted for (such as certain  activities in Fundamental Education), while a  general activity in support of an idea such as human  rights could not be fully defined as a project, A  great project was clearly not limited to any one of  the chapters as they now stood. Member Stites, he  suggested, when submitting a project, should first  state the specific field to which it more properly  belonged, though there would later be contacts  with other departments.
(4) Mr. LEE (United States of America) was in  favour of most of the ideas contained in the report  on remodelling (docurient 8C/PRG/13). They  pointed the way towards concentration, a balance  between continuing end special activities and the  acceleration of aid to underdeveloped areas, which  his country had always regarded as very desirable.
(5) The report of the Executive Board was a  statement of Drinciples. In the light of that report  and of the debate held the previous day, the  Commission should proceed to formulate pracucal  measures for their implementation, It should    - 297 -  provide the Director -General with general  guidance for future planning, without inposing  any rigidly crippling instructions.
(6) The delegate of the United States of America  supported the suggestions made by the Chairman  the previous evening: that the Advisory Committee  should serve as a working group for the Commission,  and prepare for it draft statements on: (1) criteria  for choosing major projects, (2) the balance  between permanent and special activities and (3) a  directive to serve the Director-General and the  Executive Board in their further implementation  of the report under consideration, especially in  respect of proce re and schedule of timing.
(7) Mr. Lee hoped that the Committee wculd take  note of the various ideas voiced in the Commission  about consuitation with Member States.
(8) Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom)  strongly supported the position taken by the delegate  of the United States of America against any too  rigid planning. He considered that not only the  next budgetary period but all periods were  transitional, and planning needed continual  reshaping in the light of experience. He hoped the  whole machine. y of Unesco would be employed in  the process. Non-governmental institutions should  be contacted early in order that they might bring  their scientific knowledge to bear on any new plans,
(9) He appreciated the words of the Director-  General on the meaning of special activities and  projects, A division between permanent and  special projects would place undesirable fetters  on activities that were liable to change, Many  special activities would, he hoped, become  permanent ones, not spasmodic dashes in this  direction or that,  {10} Mr. STANKOVIC (Yugoslavia) preferred to  keep the greater part of his remarks for the  discussion on the particular items of the  programme aud budget. He considered, however,  that a remodelling of the future programmes was  necessary and that the methods for putting the  various projects into effect should also be  reviewed.
(11) He agreed in principle with the Executive  Board's proposal to divide the programme into  two sections - general activities and special  activities. But the two categories should not be  allowed to conflict, they represented a single  whole. A fixed allocation of budget expenditure  between the two would be artificial and  valueless.   IV-6 PROGRAMME AND
(12) Mr. Stankovic thought that the concentration of  the programme was a question not purely of finance,  but one of substance. Unesco should concentrate its  efforts on a few carefully chosen projects.
(13) One of Unesco's main criteria should be the  safeguarding of peace through co-operation between  the peoples of the world.
(14) With regard to the methods of implementation,  the development of the National Commissions would  make wider national action possible. The regional  work of the National Commissions was especially  important, and Mr. Stankovic mentioned, as an  example, the good understanding that existed  between the Turkish, Greek and Yugoslav National  Commissions, which were planning to co-ordinate  their activities and collaborate more closely.
(15) On the subject of regionalism, Mr, Stankovic  said that the requirements of a concentrated  programme did not seem to him to be incompatible  witr *he promotion of regional activities.
(16) He urged that Unesco help the different  countries to improve their information services.
(17) As for the non-governmental organizations  and the Specialized Age" +, they could render  immeasurable service in the execution of complex  large-scale projects and could even, 1n the future,  play an active part in the drawing up of Unesco's  programme.
(18) Mr. Stankovic submitted these suggestions with  a view to helping the Director-General - to whom he  paid tribute for what had already been accomplished.
(19) The CHAIRMAN asked the delegations to put  forward concrete proposals on: (1) the definition  that could be given of the permanent activities and  special activities between which Unesco's programme  and budget were divided in the Executive Board's  report (document 8C/PRG/13); (2) the balance to be  established between the two categories, without loss  of elasticity to the programme, (3) the criteria by  which the Advisory Committee on Programme and  Budget might select the larger programme projects;
(4) the Brazilian proposal on the remodelling of  future programmes (document 8C/DR/86); and
(5) methods of implementation.
(20) He then suggested closing the general  discussion,
(21) Mr. WIDDOWSON (Union of South Africa) said  that the South African delegation was very glad to  note in the Executive Board's report, and in the  present debate, a clear recognition of the need for  progressive concentration on major projects, a  point on which previous General Conferences had  laid stress. It was also pleased to see the equaily  clear recognition by the Advisory Committce of the  need for establishing criteria which would enable  concentration to be realized. There he suggested  that the Commission could with advantage study the  criteria for priorities laid down by the Economic  and Social Council.
(22) Referring to the Executive Board's plea for an  increased budget to enable Unesco to function more  effectively, Mr. Widdowson said that, in the opinion  of his delegation, the institution of a sound system  of priorities and concentration on a limited number  of major and productive projects would enable  - 298 -     BUDGET COMMISSION  Unesco to carry out its work without an  increased budget.
(23) Mr. MENDIS (Ceylon) wished to emphasize  the remarks made the previous day by the delegate  of India on the remodelling of the programme,  Member States should have every opportunity of  proposing projects adapted to the individual needs  of each country, As it would not be possible for  National Commissions to contribute to any great  extent to the framing of Unesco programmes until  they were a good deal stronger, Mr. Mendis  proposed that the Secretariat, after a careful study  of the reports of Member States and after visiting  the countries in questior, should draw up a document  containing specific suggestions about the organization  of National Com'missions. if regional offices could  be set up wherever Member States were prepared  to collaborate in that work, they might contribute  to the framing of Unesco programmes, and to the  better utilization of the limited resources of the  Organization,
(24) Mrs. LEGARDA (Philippines) appreciated the  remarks made by the Director-General, und by the  delegates of the United Kingdom and the United  States of America, on the remodelling of the  programme. The proposed programme and budget,  while it left room for improvement, represented  the first practical steps towards a reorientation of  Unesco's activities, It had been studied very  thoroughly by the Advisory Committee and the  Executive Board, and she felt that it could now be  adopted in toto or with the few mincr changes that  might still be required.
(25) A realistic appraisal of the disappointments  suffered by the Organization was given in document
8C/PRG/13. As a whole, however, the Philippine  delegation endorsed the programme and would  support it, as well as any further changes that  tended towards its streamlimng, concentration or  improvement in some other form.
(26) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General),  on a point of order, said that the Commission should  avoid any confusion between the work of the working  party on decentralization and the work of the  Advisory Committee. That procedural problem  would be solved if the working party met before  the meeting of the Advisory Committee, and if the  latter abstained from intervening until it had seen  the working party's report.
(27) With regard to the Egyptian delegation's  remark on the necessity for consulting Member  States on special activities, Mr. Maheu said that  that was the Secretariat's 1dea; what was proposed  was not merely to collaborate with Member States,  but, in each case, to obtain their agreement  before doing anything at all to launcii those  activities.
(28) The CHAIRMAN then reopened the question  of the division of activities into two categories, in  accordance with the Executive Board's report.
(29) Mr. ZAMORANO HERNANDEZ (Chile) said  that his delegacion agreed to the division into general   PROGRAMME AND  and special activities, provided that what the  Yugoslav delegate had said was accepted.
(30) Supported by the delegates of Egypt, Yugoslavia  and Chile, the division of activities into two  categories, 1n accordance with the Executive Board's  report, was approved.
(31) Mr. SEDES (France) referred to his previous  remarks and submitted the an.ended text of certain  paragraphs of document 8C/PRG/13. He considered  that those corrections were in keeping with the  spirit at least of paragraphs 13, 18 and 21 of the  document.
(32) Paragraphs 62 and 68, thus revised, would  read:  "62. Unesco receives many more requests for  assistance than it can satisfy, either under its  regular programme or under the Expanded  Programme of Technical Assistance. However,  the Executive Board recornmends that, on acccunt  of the connexion existing between general activities  and speciai activities, increases in Unesco's budget  ve proportionally divided between the t'vo types of  activity.  "68, In conclusion, the Executive Board's  purpose in recommending changes in the structure  of the programme 1s to make it a practical instrument  better adapted to the means and ends of the  Organization and more responsive to the needs of  Member States, It is the Executive Board's hope  that the Organization's resources and energies wiil  be equitably distributed between the two types of  activity. The special activities provide perhaps the  most direct help towards fulfilling the vital needs of  Member States, but the general activities are  essential to the clear-sighted elaboration of  particular undertakings and to their effective  implementation, "
(33) The PRESIDENT wished to know whether or  not the Cimmission wanted to fix proportions.
(34) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive  Board) said that it was not within the competence of  the Commission to amend t'e Executive Board's  report.
(35) Mr. SEDES (France) and Mr. VERONESE  (Italy) were in favour of fixing proportions.
(36) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) thought the term  proportions was unsuitable, for it was a question  not merely of fixing mathematical relations, but  of defining two kinds of activity and their connexion,  the importance of which had been adequately  demonstrated to the Commission. He thought it  would be better to define the two categories before  fixing proportions, which might be different for  each field of activity
(37) Mr. COSTA RIBEIRO (Brazil) thought the  French aelegation's remarks were well inspired.  But the Lebanese delegate's remarks complemented  them. It would be absurd to fix a ration onze for all;  proportions should vary according to the field of  activity.  - 299 -     BUDGET COMMISSION IV-6
(38) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) remarked that  the Advisory Committee had already given its views  on the apportionment of funds between the two  activities, in document 8C/PUD/2, paragraph 7.
1t was not possible to speak of a division between  special ard general activities, before agreement  had been reached on the meaning or ‘the two words.
(39) Mr. SIDDIQI (Pakistan) supported the  conclusions of the Executive Board mentioned in  paragraphs 62 and 68 of document 8C/PRG/13 as  well as the comments of the Advisory Committee  mentioned by the delegate of Egypt. His conntry  was 1n favour of stressing special activities.
(40) Mr. KRUYT (Netherlands) said 1t was not  possible to fix a numerical proportion between  general and special activities, but the Commission  could express its opinion on the tendency that  relation should follow.
(41) He quoted from h:s speech at the plenary  meeting the warrung of the Netherlands delegation  against exaggerating the importance of special  objectives and neglecting general activities.
(42) Technical assistance was a spectacular activity,  but it was only possible when general activities  were sponsored as they ought to be and, if science  were not promoted :n the developed -nuntries,  underdeveloped countries would not be able to  receive the aid they needed.
(43) Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom) fully  supported the remarks of the delegate of Egypt.  The terms general and special had not been  sufficiently defined for any proportion between the  two activities to be fixed, The Netherlands were  in favour of general activities, while a number of  other countries had spoken for special activities.  Perhaps, when the definitions had been made  clearer, those »pposiag trends of thought would be  harmonized, and the question of proportions might  lose its importance.
(44) Mr, KABIR (India) thought that, although it  was not possible to decide on precise proportions,  the general feeling of the meeting could be indicated  to the Advisory Committee. His country supported  the views expressed by the delegate of Pakistan:  the accent should be on special activities,
(45) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) proposed that  the Advisory Committee be asl.ed to prepare a  text for discussion by the Commission,
(46) Mr. CHENG CH! PAO (China) enquired  whether the proportion of general activities given  in the programme und budget document as 35% and  of the special activities as 65% were based on past  experience, or represented an assumption for the  future. He suggested that the term general should  apply to advisory and information services, while  the term special covered | romotional services.
(47) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive  Board) replied that in paragraph 44 of the  Introduction to the proposed programme and budget  the proportions were given for the 1955-56   PROGRAMME AND IV-6  programme (32.54% of the funds attributed to gene. al  activities and the remainder to special activities),  There was also a note on the proportions in past  budgetary periods.
(48) Mr, LAUGIER (France) accepted without  enthusiasm the division of activities proposed by the  Executive Board. In his opinion, it was only  admissible if it could be achieved without its having  paralysing effects and suusequently a reduction of  general activities in favour of special activities.
(49) With reference to th- second part of the report  of the Advisory Committee on Programme and  Budget (document 8C/BUD/2, paragraph 7) - "It  would therefore be harmful to seek to determine in  advance the apportionment of funds between the  general aspect and the special aspect of these  activities..." - Mr. Laugier entirely endorsed the  Advisory Committee's opinion and suggested that  the Commission deal with the contents of the  programme without binding itself ir. advance by  establishing percentages in the dark.
(50) Mr. AFTALION (Argentina) agreed with the  views of the French delegate. The problem was  presented in such a way as to remove it from a  qualitative to a quantitative basis. A general  direction could be set and criteria and priorities  laid down, without going further and fixing  proport.ons and budgetary figures,
(51) Mr. ZAMORANO HERNANDEZ (Chile) noted  the diversity of opinion expressed during the  discussion, which made 1t difficult to take up a  position and lay down criteria to be followed in  determining the allocation of budget funds. He  thought that the proposed progran.me and budget was  drafted clearly. He favoured giving preference to  special activities, and agreed with the Executive  Board's criterion, It would be preferable to adopt  a realistic criterion, without prolonging the  discussion on different concepts.
(52) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  reminded the Commission that the Executive Board  had proposed the division of the programme into  general activities and special activities, recom-  inending that the latter receive priority in any  apportionment of fresh resources. The Advisory  Committee, for its part, in paragraph 7 of its  report (Part II), had said that there was no need to  fix mathematical provortions in advance.
(53) It seemed that the Commission was roughly  divided into two groups: one wanted to decide  forthwith for or against the recommendation of the  Executive Board; the other wanted to wait until some  clearer definition of the two categories of activilies  had emerged from the discussions, In the first  group, the dclegations of Pakistan, India, and it  seemed, Chile, echoed the view of the Executive  Board, whereas France (in its delegate's speech)  and the Netherlands were against it. In the second  group were Egypt, the United Kingdom, France (in  the French delegate's second speech), Lebanon and  Brazil. Those last-named delegations preferred to  ask the Advisory Committee to define the elements  of the problem better and, meanwhile, to proceed to  BUD     - 300 -  GET COMMISSION  the study of the proposed programme aad budget  before expressing an opinion on the proportions to  be observed between the two categories of  activities.
(54) Without wishing to speak on the substance of  the debate but intervemng on a point of order and  at the request of the Chairman, Mr. Maheu thought  it would be better to embark at once on the  discussion of the proposed programme and budget  and to return afterwards to the question of  proportions without referring it to the Advisory  Committee, which had already, in its report,  expressed its view on the matter.
(55) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Chairman of the  Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget)  endorsed the Assistant Director-General's remarks,  It was impossible that the Commission should refer  the matter to the Advisory Committee at that stage,  as no new result could be produced. It should not  be referred to the Committee until a clear  directive could be expressed by the Commission.
(56) Mr, ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) proposed a  postponement of the decision until the Advisory  Committee had made its report on the matter of  definitions and timing.
(57) Mr. LEE (United States of America) agreed  with the view of the Assistant Director-General.  He thought the discussion should be kept open until  the Advisory Committee had made its report and  until the programme and budget document had been  discussed chapter by chapter. The Commission  should not bind itsel: to a decision, or to precluding  discussion in the Advisory Committee.
(58) In answer to a suggestion from the CHAIRMAN,  who thought that the Commission could refer to the  Advisory Committee the study of criteria on which  the selection of the larger programme projects  would in future be based, Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon)  said that even that course would be premature. He  reminded the Commission that the exchange of views  on the report: of the Executive Board and the  Advisory Committee had clarified members' minds  on many points. He endorsed the Secretariat's  suggestion.
(59) Mr. VERONESE (Italy) reminded delegates  that the Commission still had to give an opinion on  criteria and the methods of implementation, and  that the time factor was beginning to come into play.  He considered that the Commission could suspend  its discussion on that point without taking an  immediate decision, and could proceed to study  the special reports which had no financial  implications.
(60) He also asked the Secretariat to summarize  briefly what the terms of reference of the working  party on decentralization might be; in that way,  lengthy discussions on those terms of reference  could be avoided.
(61) Mr. FAWZI (Egypt) said that the Commission  was tending to become involved in a dogmatic  discussion of terms. The delegates had repeated   PROGR *MME AND  that it was 1myossible to take a decision. Italy and  Lebanon, in particular, had inaintained that point of  view, and Mr. Fawzi endorsed it.
(62) Mr. NIELSEN (Denmark) thought that the  Commission should express its wishes to the  Director-General, to help him in the establishment  of future programmes, but without going into details,  Any suggestion of percentages would mean a recasting  of the programme, if it referrcd to the 1955-56  period, and would in any case involve a lot of  difficult work, It was not possible to go much  further than the Executive Board's proposal did in  stating that the greater part of funds shor'd be  devoted to special activities, A numerical  definitinrn would be harmful to the method of  the Conference.
(63) Sir Charles WEPSTER (United Kingdom)  supported the delegate of Denmark. The Advisory  Committee would report on the subject with reference  to the discussion of the 1957-58 programme, not  the 1955-56 one,
(64) Mr. KABIR (India) supported the delegate of  Denmark. He reminded the meeting that no General  Conference could bind a succeeding General  Conference by any ofits decisions,
(65) Mr. BARBEY (Switzerland), rcferring to  M'. Maheu's suggestion that discussion on the  percentages to be fixed for general and special  activities should be postponed, submitted a  procedural motion 1n that sense.
(66) The procedural motion was adopted.  BUDGET     COMMISSION IV-7
(67) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Chairman of the  Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget),  having asked what the Commission *ad decided with  regard to referring the inatter to his Committee,  Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General), inter-  vening purely on a procedural question, replied that  the Advisory Committee had been charged by the  Programme and Budget Commission to report on  the cntire substance of the matter. That would take  account of the report of the working party on  decentralization, but did not deal with the question  of proportions.
(68) The Commission approved that conclusion.
(69) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive  Board) said that the competent committee of the  Executive Board had spent a lo‘ of timo on National  Con.missions, He hoped to present a resolution  shortly.
(70) It was agreed that the working party would  cover the other subjects, and to defer the matter  of National Commissions until the Executive Board  was able to produce its considered views,
(71) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) wished to refer  at that stage, on the question of decentralization, to  the effects of General Conference meetings outside  Paris. He asked whether that subject could be  included in the agenda of the working party.
(72) The CHAIRMAN replied that it had already  been included.  The meeting rose at 12.40 p.m.  SEVENTH MEETING
22 November 1954 at 19 a. m.  Charman: Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland)
(1) The CHAIRMAN announced the death of Mr. de  Thibault, a member of the Belgian delegation, on
19 November. He expressed the condolences of the  Commission to the Belgian delegation, and requested  the latter to convey ‘he Commissionts sympathy to  Mr. de Thibault's family. He asked delegates to  observe one minute*s silence.  ITEM 8.4.8 OF THE REVISED AGENDA: TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
(2) The CHAIRMAN asked members of the Commission  to proceed to the exam.nation of documents 8C/5  Annex VIII, 8C/3 and 8C/3 Add., and called  upon the Director-General,
(3) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that there had  been many important developments in the admin:-  stration of technical assistance during the last year.  It was the opinion of the Secretariat that the changes  would represent a definite improvement. The most  important was the trend towards country planning,  which meant that technical assistance would be  given to countries according to their desires and  needs. Every effort would be made to keep the  costs of administration low and to strengthen the  scheme through collaboration with other agencies.
(4) The Commission would have to review the  technical quality of the programme and recommend  to the General Conference the resolutions  which should be passed.  - 301 -