8 November 1954 at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman: Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Australis)  ITEM 7.2 OF THE AGENDA: PRELIMINARY CONSIDERATION  OF THE DRAFT PROGRAMME AND BUDGET FOR 1955-56  BEFORE THE OPENING OF THE SESSION (continued)  CHAPTER 3: MASS COMMUNICATION (continued)
(1) Discussion of paragraphs 76 and 77: Prizes for  films and film scenarios, was resumed.
(2) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive  Board) explained that this proposal had been added to  the programme after considerable discussion by the  Executive Board. There was a good deal of doubt  whether prizes were the best method of promoting  this activity. However, one project had finally been  agreed on as an experiment.
(3) The proposal to delete paragraphs 76 and 77 was  put to the vote and adopted by 6 in favour, 3 against  and 1 abstention.
(4) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) said  that the Secretariat had simply given the Committee  information and had taken no part in the discussion on  the substance of the question. For the rest, the de-  cision the Committee had just taken meant that all the  projects relating to films had a lower priority. The  only items unchanged in the programme were those  relating to audio-visual aids other than films.
(5) The CHAIRMAN said that the question could be  re-examined when the merits of the different chapters  were being evaluated.
(6) Sectior. D, paragraphs 149-153, was approved  without comment.  Section F, paragraphs 154-156: The rôle of bruad-  casting in the dissemination of culture
(7) Mr. LEE ‘United States .. America) proposed  that th.s activity should receive a lower priority.
(8) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) men-  tioned that the project of the Department of Mass  Communication was to be carried out in co-operation  with the Department of Cultural Activities (Cultural  Act vities, paragraphs 161-164) and that, in the lat-  ter chapter, it had been g en a lower priority.
(9 Mr. COWELL(Umied Kingdom)seconded the pro-  pc sal of the delegate of the United States of America.  (i0) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  rnunication) reported that the non-governmental    organizations had strongly supported the conclusions  of the meeting of experts, held in October 1953, re-  garding the importance of the part that radio could  play in the spread of culture. Another meeting, which  had taken place in London in July 1954 and had been  attended by producers and directors had laid stress on  the invaluable help which scientists could give in the  development of television and on the difficulties en-  countered in obtaining such co-operation. The advice  of cultural experts should be sought in order to im-  prove the use of broadcasting for the spread of culture,  Finally, Member States and National Commissions  could help to bring about a general improvement in  programmes by selecting the best programmes broad-  cast in their countries and collecting information on  their effects. In that way it would be possible to de-  termine the best means of securing greater variety in  programmes so as to give as full a reflection as  possible of the great diversity of the world.
(11) As there were no other speakers, the proposal  of the delegate of the United States of America, se-  conded by the delegate of the United Kingdom, thatthe  project in question be given a lower priority, was put  to the vote. It was adopted by 5 votes to 1, with 4  abstentions.  Paragraphs 157-159: International exchange and sti-  mulation of production of educational, scientific and  cultural programmes
(12) Mr. DESJARDINS (Departmer’ of Mass Com-  munication) said that the great film festivals (Venice,  Cannes, Locarno) co-operated with Unesco in stimu-  lating, without expense to the Organization, the ex-  change of educational, scientific and cultural films  and kinescopes - a matter which was of great economic  importance to producers. Producers of scripts,  films and film sequences had taken part in the tele-  vision seminar in London. The technical problems  to be solved were comparatively simple. The pro-  posal was to hold a meeting of the organizers of the  International Council for Educational Film and to pre-  pare the ground for co-operation in the production of  short films and television films.
(13) The organizers of the great world film festivals  paid the expenses of meetings of experts, on the choice  of whom Unesco was consulted, and arranged show-  ings of educational films and art films,
(14) The following year, the Locarno Festival inten-  ded to organize a meeting of experts on the use of  films in sociological research.
(15) Unesco ought to arrange, by contract, for the  production of short news films and filmstrips dealing  with its work. In order to secure the co-operation of  - 718 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  competent organizations such as the International  Council for Educational Film, and to hold its place in  that field, which concerned the whole world, Unesco  would have to furnish supplies for newsreels to the  value of $5,000,
(16) Mr. BOW (Canada) asked (1) whether educational  films and television were advanced enough to justify  this quite considerable expenditure and (2) whether  the sums allocated to staff travel were not excessive,
(17) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  munication explained that an experiment had been  launched in rural areas by the French broadcasting  and television company, in order to estimate the in-  fluence of educational films on the general public in  somewhat backward regions. He was sure that such  films had a good influence and mentioned that the  technical difficulties of execution ware negligible.
(18) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Programme  and Budget), replying to the Canadian delegate's se-  cond question, said that the staff travel was intended  for visits to national radio and television organizations  and attendance at film festivals. Two long, 6 medium  and 11 short journeys had been planned for 1955-56.
(19) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) asked whether  there had been an increase on the figures for 1953-54,
(20) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Programme  and Budget) offered to answer a little later,
(21) The CHAIRMAN wondered why these paragraphs  were not included under the press and radio divisions,  That was another point to be considered by the pro-  posed working party on the reorganization of the  Department.
(22) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  munication) said that, in the programmes of the press  and radio divisions, Unesco itself produced material,  whereas, in the cuse in point, the proposal was toco-  operate with the appropriate organizations and to  promote production outside the Organization.  {23) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Programme  and Budget), in answer to the question put by the de-  legate of the United Kingdom, said that the sum was  the same as for the present budgetary period, i.e,  $12,000 for the whole section.
(24) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) asked if it could  not be cut by, say, $2,000.
(25) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) ob-  served that the project was an unusual one and that  so far the Committee had not discussed any similar  suggestion. He warned the Committee against mak-  ing budgetary cuts in projects before they had consi-  dered what effect they right have on the successful  implementation of the programme.
(26) Mr, BOW (Canada) enquired whether any re-  venue could be expected from the films, once theyhad  been produced.    V1-12
(27) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  munication) explained that about three-quarters of the  appropriations were intended to promote productions  that could not ordinarily be undertaken by private com  panies, which wou d not consider them financially  worth while; so far, the idea of deriving revenue  from the newsreels produced had not been considered,  Paragraphs 160-152: World Braille Council
(28) In connexion with the World Braille Council, Mr.  Desjardins reminded the Committee that Unesco had  undertaken to complete the unification of the Braille  alphabet throughout the world. The alphabet itself  had already been umfied, but musical notation and  mathematical, physical and chemical symbols still  required unification. Unesco had concluded an agree-  ment with theWor d Council for the Welfare of the  Biind, whereby that organization undertook to provide  the Secretariat of the World Br aille Council by 1955,  For 1955, the Director-General was asking for a sum  of $5,000 for contracts in order to complete the uni-  fication of musical notation, and would like to ask for  an appropriation in 1956 for that of mathematical,  physical and chemical symbols,
(29) The CHAIRMAN remarked that this project,be-  gun at the third s:ssion of the General Conference and  due to be concluded in 1955, was a gond example of an  activity started by Unesco for which a termination  date could be given in the near future, It was a highly  successful project and he expressed his whole-hearted  satisfaction.
(30) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) joined the Chairman in  praising the projèct.
(31) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) understood that  the World Counc:1 for the Welfare of the Blind hoped  to receive a small subvention in 1956 as well, Had a  formal request on the subject reached the Director-  General?
(32) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) point-  ed out to the delegate of the United Kingdom that it  would be helpful to make a supplementary appropria-  tion which could be used to help the World Council for  the Welfare of the Blind in its work, Mr, Desjardins  had mentioned tt e need for such an appropriation, and  the Assistant Director-General asked Mr. Cowell  whether he could propose the insertion of that appro-  priation in the proposed programme and budget.
(33) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) was quite ready  to make the proacsal, but did not know how much or  in what form this aid was wanted.
(34) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  munication) explained that the World Council for the  Welfare of the Blind had mentioned, with gratitude, in  a resolution, that Unesco intended to meet part of its  expenses for 1955, In 1956, as in 1955, the best  form of assistaice would be a contract for a specific  purpase.
(35) Mr. CABOUAT (France) seconded the proposal’  of the United K.ngdom delegate that the World Council  - 719 -   VI-12  be granted contracts in 1956 for the same sum as 11
1955. At the request of the delegates of France ard  the United Kingdom, a mention of the recommenda‘ion  would be included in the report of the Advisory  Committee.  Paragraphs 162a-162h (document 8C/5 Cor: 1gendurn):  Assistance in the production and dissemina‘ion of art  films
(36) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Miss Com-  munication) presented the project described in  document 8C/5 Corrigendum.
(37) Mr. COWELL (Umted Kingdom) thought that art  filn.s had made a very good impression wherever they  had been seen. With reference to 162d, what exact  form was the encouragement of production to take ?  Was Unesco paying for the production of films? A  more detailed work plan would be advisable.
(38) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) drew  the Committee's attention to the provision for assist-  ance in film production (paragraph 162g) and added  that he was anxious that the Secretariat should be al-  lowed some latitude in carrying out the project.
(38) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  mumication) mentioned that the meeting of experts on  the distribution of art films, in Venice, was intended  to make production easier by improving distribution.
(40) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) asked  the delegate of the United Kingdom whether he would  be satisfied with a drafting change consisting in the  deletion of the reference to the encouragement of prc-  duction from paragraph 162d, leaving only the  mention of encouraging dissemination.
(41) The CHAIRMAN referring to paragraph 162g,  asked whether, when giving financial aid, Unesco did  not propose to request a matching contribution on the  part of the Member State concerned.
(42) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) re-  marked that the help supplied by Unesco would re-  present only a very small part of the production costs,  Section Il: Project 5.5: Use of the means of com-'  munication for fundamental and workers ' education  Paragraphs 165-173
(43) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  munication), referring to the proceedings of the  thirty-seventh session u! the Executive Board, ex-  plained that the project for the establishment of an  Educational Film Institute for Latin America (para-  graphs 172 and 173) included provision for an  educational film project for that area.
(44) Mr.SILLER(Mexico)reported that his Government  was very much interested in the establishment of the  Educational Film Institute for Latin America. It would  give all possible facilities for setting up the Institute  and, as soon as the relevant agreements were con-  cluded, would carry out its part in them.    ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET
(45) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) asked whether  the Organization of American States would be  participating in the project.
(46) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) re-  plied that the Organization of American States was not  taking part, but that it had been consulted and had  given 1ts agreement.
(47) Mr. LEE (United States of America) hoped the  work would be co-ordinated with that of other agencies  besides OAS,
(48) Sections (B), (C), (D) and (E) (paragraphs 174-
182) were approved without comment. Discussion on  Section (F) (Fellowships) was deferred until the end of  the chapter.  Sections (G), (H) and (I) (paragraphs 184-189), exclud-  ing paragraph 186, which had been dealt with earlier
(49) Mr. BOW (Canada), referring to paragraph 184,  asked what rôle the private foundation would play in  the project. What would be the total cost? And what  was expected to happen at the end of the two years  covered by the budget?
(50) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  munication) thought it was rather early to pass judg-  ment on the project for a regional film library for the  Middle East. In 1953, the Ford Foundation had asked  Unesco to assist in setting up the regional film library,  At the same time, the University of Syracuse (United  States of America) had embarked on a study of visual  aids and their use in the same region. The help pro-  vided by those two bodies might prove very useful to  Unesco, which expected to receive a report from the  University of Syracuse at any moment. Unesco would  be required to supply a collection of films and film-  strips suitable for the region, to appoint an expert to  work out the detailed operation of the film library,and  would also have, at a later stage, to arrange for the  production of visual aids. The Ford Foundation and  the University of Syracuse would be responsible for  submitting reports to the governments concerned and  for transmitting their conclusions to Unesco.
(51) In the course of the discussion, it was stated  that, after agreement with Unesco, which would under  take to provide assistance only on strictly limited  terms and as the need arose, the Foundation and the  University would ask the Organization to take part in  the project and probably to secure the active  co-operation of governments in the region,
(52) Project 5,5 was approved.  Project 5.6: Technical aid to Member States in de-  velopment of mass communication services  (paragraphs 190-199)
(53) In presenting the project, Mr. DESJARDINS  (Department of Mass Communication) explained  that it was intended solely to meet requests put for-  ward by Member States, He quoted as examples  the regional seminar held in Messina and the  training seminar for television producers, etc.,  held in London.  - 720 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON
(54) Mr. LEE (United States of America), in view of  his country's great interest in technical aid, hesitated  to question those activities, but he found the rather  high sum insufficiently related to high priority areas.  He suggested that the two parts together be given a  low priority in such a way that countries receiving  technical aid would be free to choose between  fellowships or expert missions.
(55) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) said that half a  loaf was better than no bread. Why not keep half the  number of missions and lower the priority of the  other half?
(56) Mr. LEE (United States of America) agreed.
(57) Mr. CABOUAT (France) asked whether the ex-  pert missions for which provision was made in para-  graph 196 were to include experts covering all the  preceding sections. or whether they were to be ex-  perts in the use of mass media for fundamental  education.
(58) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  munication) mentioned that, judging by past experience,  Member States often called on the funds for technical  assistance for economic development and on Unesco  funds alike, for the development of fundamental edu-  cation. He instanced several of the missions sent  out in the past, in particular to Egypt, the Arab  States, Turkey (two), etc.
(59) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel!) supported the proposal of  the delegate of the United Kingdom with regard to  paragraphs 196 and 197 (expert missions) but not with  regard to 198 and 199 (fellowships).
(80) Mr. CABOUAT (France, suggested that, as a  general principle, the Committee should continue to  accord a high priority to expert missions, at least so  far as fundamental education was concerned. He made  a formal proposal that half the funds should be allot-  ted a higher priority, the remaining half being left as  it was. At the request of Mr. Cowell, however, he  amended his proposal, as a compromise, to lower  the priority of the second half.
(61) The proposal by the delegate of the United King-  dom to lower the priority of half the number of expert  missions was put to the vote and carried by 7 in fav-  our, 3 against and 1 abstention, The French propos-  al to raise the priority of the remaining half was not  seconded.
(62) Mr. LEE (United States of America) proposed  that half the fellowships should receive a lower  priority.
(63) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  munication) pointed out that, as a sequel to an expert  mission, Unesco often received from seven to tenre-  quests for fellowships from the country concerned,  when only one or two could be granted. Limitation  of the number of expert missions therefore did not  necessarily mean any appreciable reduction in  the needs for fellowships.  PROGRAMME AND BUDGET     VI-12
(64) In the course of the discussion, he explained that  Unesco's programme had always included provision  for fellowships for the improvement of mass media.
(65) The proposal by the delegate of the United States  of America to lower the priority of half the number of  fellowships was not seconded.
(66) Returming to paragraph 183, Mr. W, CARTER  (Head, Exchange of Persons Service) explained that  the fellowships describnd under this heading had al-  ready been discussed under paragraph 32 of the chap-  ter on Exchange of Persons in the field of fundamental  education.  Project 5.7: Voluntary international assistance
(67) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) called the attention of the  Committee to the fact that the coupon scheme, while  it brought in a certain income, involved losses to the  National Commissions which might eventually devolve  on the Organization. He referred to the case of Iran,  which was to be brought up later, and to that of Israel.
(68) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) re-  marked that the Government of Iran had put the ques-  tior. of gift coupons on the agenda of the General  Conference,
(69) The CHAIRMAN suggested that the subject would  be discussed more appropriately within the framework  of the Prograrnme Commission.  Paragraphs 211-221: Gift coupon programme
(70) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) said that the scheme was  still too young for proper evaluation. He stressed  the importance of ihe effort made to avoid its elee-  mosynary aspect and to give it an educational value.  Schools in needy countries, for instance, could find  something to return to schools in donor countries, in  exchange for their gifts.
(71) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) endorsed the remarks of  the delegate of Israel.
(72) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) agreed with those views,  He added that institutes should not be included in the  gift scheme without prior consultation with and the  approval of the respective National Commissions,
(73) Mr. SOEBROTO (Indonesia) endorsed the re-  marks made by the delegate of Israel,
(74) It was agreed that this point should be included  in the report,
(75) The CHAIRMAN asked the Committee to resume  the discussion of paragraphs 63 and 64 (work of  Unesco's recording studios).
(718) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) point-  ed out that the rather large sum requested in para-  graph 64 was to be used for the conversion of the  existing equipment in Unesco's sound recording stu-  dios or for the purchase of new equipment, Most of  the existing equipment had been in use for six years.  - 121 -   vi-12 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  Apart from the normal wear of such apparatus,ac-  count had to be taken of the progress since made in  this field. Mr, Maheu assured the Committee that  the appropriations asked for did not in any case over-  lap with the sums provided for the installation of the  Organization's headquarters in the new building.
(77) In reply to a comment from Mr. COWELL, Mr.  MAHEU added that he had no doubt that Unesco's  Bureau of General Services would succeed in selling  the outdated recording equipment advantageously,  Staff Tables 1 and II {paragraphs 222-251)
(78) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) enquired how, in view  of the higher and lower priorities decided on, the  staff table would be affected,
(79) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) re-  marked that the Committee had made pretty drastic  alterations in the priority projects, It would be wise  to postpone discussion of the staff tables to give the  Secretariat time to draw up new tables in accordance  with the decisions taken by the Committee,  CHAPTER 7: GENERAL RESOLUTIONS
(80) The project on National Commissions (7.1) was  deferred for discussion at a later stage in connexion  with the general discussion on decentralization,  Project 7.2: Study of international cultural relations  (paragraphs 13-21)
(81) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) pou.*  ed out that the appropriations requested were small,  considering the importance of the work,
(82) It had been decided by the Generali Conference ir.  Florence in 1950 that Unesco should compile a cci-  lection of cultural agreements, It was to include  bilateral and multilateral agreements, There had  been a large number of requests for the collection  from Member States and non-government’.  organizations.
(83) Work had then begun on an analysis of the. agree-  ments from the legal standpoint. tar that reason  the Bureau of Legal Affairs was originally made res-  ponsible for the work and efforts had been made to  elaborate model clauses for submission to Member  States to guide them in their negotiation of subsequent  agreements.
(84) Since then the analysis of cultural agreements  had proceeded along different lines. It had been  realized that the agreements were juridically fairly  simple, but what mattered most was not the letter of  the law but the application of the agreements, Hence  the new direction given to the study of agreements,  with the Executive Board's approval, in the course  of the past two years,
(85) Document 8C/PRG/11, which had been submitted  to the General Conference, was only an interim report;  the material on which it was based was far from com-  plete and some of the analyses were rather superfi-  cial, It should, however, show the Conference the  full importance of cultural agreements in interna  tional co-operation,
(86) This might be a good opportunity of taking stock;  the programme of Unesco had practically never taken  systematic account of cultural agreements concluded  by Member States between themselves. The Cunfer-  ence might consider what influence it might exercise  on the relations of Member States outside the Orga-  nization and what support this important network could  give it in the accomplishment of its mission.
(87) The Secretariat was asking for authority, and the  necessary means, to continue its analysis of cultural  relations in order to go more deeply into what it had  already learnt, It would then be able to produce a  real "study of cultural relations" instead of a "report  on cultural agreements",
(88) Mr, JUNANKAR (India) asked whether the study  of international cultural relations was so technical in  character as to require the services of experts,
(89) Mr, MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) said  that it was a highly complex technical problem, For  the rest, the consultants provided for were not theo-  rists but essentially practitioners, The amount of  $2,000 a year did not seem to be excessive,
(80) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom), though admit-  ging a logical reason for this study, doubted itsprac-  tical value. As it would not be affected by a delay he  suggested it should receive a lower priority,
(91) Mr. BOW (Canada) supported that proposal,
(92) Mr. LEE (United States of America) said the  constant task of Unesco was to stimulate cultural ac-  tivities in the different countries, It was surely ne-  cessary therefore to find out everything possible about  the way cultural agreements between them were made  and carried out, However, there again was an acti-  vity where Unesco could count on the co-operation of  National Commissions, with resulting savings in  budget.
(93) Mr. CABOUAT (France) supported resolution 7,2  and considered that Unesco House in Paris was the  best place in the world to find information about cul-  tural relations between countries, He had some sym  pathy, however, with the views voiced by the delegates  of the United Kingdom and the United States of America,  as he too, thought that the study of cultural agreements  and of the relations between States should be carried  out by members of the Secretariat without calling in  outside consultants, He proposed thatthe Programme  and Budget Commission should be asked to consider  particularly carefully to what extent the sums  provided for consultants could be deleted.
(84) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) asked what the Secretariat  thought of the French delegate's proposal,
(85) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) sup-  posed that the qualified motion of the delegate of  France might, in budgetary terms, mean the deletion  of the sum of $2,000,
(96) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) maintained his  own proposal, which he considered more drastic,  - 722 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET
(87) Mr, JUNANKAR (India) insisted that jobs that  could be done through ordinary channels did not call  for consultants. He supported the proposal of the  French delegate that the project should be maintainec  but the consultants suppressed.
(98) The motion presented by the delegate of the Uni-  ted Kingdom and supported by the delegate of Canada  to lower the priority of the activity was rejected by 3  in favour, 6 against and 2 abstentions,
(88) The motion presented by the delegate of France  that the question should be re-examined with the pos  sibility of suppressing the consultants {n mind was  carried unanimously.  Prrject 7,3: Regional Office in the Western  Hemisphere
(100) This project was deferred for later discussion.  CHAPTER 8: DOCUMENTS AND PUBLICATIONS BERVICE
(101) Mr. DELAVENAY (Chief, Documents and Pub-  lications Service) explained that his Service had no  independent programme of its own but consisted of  technicians, who were responsible for every stage cf  the technical production of the documents and publi-  cations, and for the distribution of publications.
(102) He emphasized the importance of the Adminis-  trative Liaison and Editorial Control units, and final-  ly mentioned certain changes in the budget estimates  for his Service, shown in document 8C/5 Corrigendum,
(103) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Programme  and Budget) said that in the Corrigendum an amount  of $24,000 in 1955 and $34,000 in 1956, provided for  freight and postage, had been eliminated, since it was  considered reasonable and justified that these costs  should come out of the Publications Fund, being re-  lated directly to sales turnover, He also explained  that, in the Appropriation Resolution, the amount to  be credited to Miscellaneous Income from Publica-  tions Fund had been reduced to $16,000 a year so as  to give a more realistic reflection of anticipated sales,
(104) In reply to a question, Mr. MAHEU (Assistant  Director-General) said that the Director-General had  given much thought to the question of publications,  They were an integral part of the programme and not  an independent activity, as in the case of private  publishing firms, They always had to be considered  in relation to the programme and were really nothing  else than instruments for its execution.
(105) The Documents and Publications Service had the  necessary technical and budgetary resources for the  production of those publications. However, assome  machinery for supervis.on for the whole of the Secre-  tariat was necessary, the Director-General had set  up within the House two advisory committees: the  Reading Committee and the Publications Board.
(106) The former, presided over by Mr. Chevalier,  consisted of a very few permanent members and of  other members who were added to the Committee  when different subjects had to be dealt with. It was  an ad hoc Committee convened as requested. It had    Vi-12  to consider any manuscripts about which there was  doubt, either because they left something to be de-  sired or because they were unsuitable for publication  by an intergovernmental organization, which was sub-  ject to restrictions from which the private publisher  was free. It might also happen that a manuscript  commissioned might not entirely fulfil expectations.  or that the programme might change in the interim, lu  such a case, the manuscript had to be adapted to the  new circumstances, or even to readers for whom it  had not originally been intended. All manuscripts  were of course considered by the departments respon  sible for them and by the editors in the Documents and  Publications Service, It was generally not even ne-  cessary to submit them to the Committee. The Reading  Committee met only to advise the Director-General in  difficult cases and was convened at the request of the  departments or of the Documents and Publications  Service,
(107) The Publications Board, presided over by the  Assistant Director-General, was quite different. The  whole of the Secretariat was represented on it, with  the exception of the Bureau of Personnel. It met  regularly with an agenda issued in advance, It was  responsible for formulating administrative and finan-  cial procedures for the implementation of publications  plans. It dealt with such subjects as copyright ne-  gotiations, series oi publications format, etc, It was  also and more narticularly responsible for consider-  ing the publication projects included in the work plans  drawn up by the departments every six months, So  far, all decisions had been adopted unanimously. The  decisions and plans were submitted to the Director -  General for approval,
(108) In conclusion, Mr. Maheu felt justified in  claiming that the last two years had seen substantial  progress made in the regularity, quality and appear-  ance of Unesco's publications and in their reception  by the public, This progress was largely due, he  thought,to the administrative arrangements he had  just described.
(109) Mr. FREY (German Federal Republic) wished  to know how far the work of sales promotion and  planning was connected with the tasks of the Publica-  tions Board and the Reading Committee.
(110) Mr, DELAVENAY {Thief, Documents and Pub-  lications Service) gave a brief description of the part  played by the Sales and Distribution Division in the  work of the Publications Board, where advantage was  taken of its experience of distribution problems. He  drew special attention to the use of sales statistics  and to the expansion of sales promotion and circula-  tion, with the help of specially prepared questionnaires,  in countries where the National Commissions were  able to co-operate actively in that work.
(111) Miss LAISE (United States of America) asked  for comments onthe specific observations made by the  Budget Committee at the seventh session of the  General Conference. In what degree had the staff  been able to correct its methods of work along  the lines suggested at that time, reducing the  time-lag in the planning of publications, slowing  down the publication of bibliographies and  alternating their languages?  - 723 -   VI-12
(112) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Programme  and Budget) replied that all the recommendations of  the Budget Committee had been followed up. Thirty  publications fewer had been planned for, and the bud-  get for 1955, for instance, showed a marked decrease  in funds allocated to contractual printing, compared  with 1853, Publications were often appearing in  tri- or bilingual form.
(113) Miss LAISE (United States of America) con-  gratulated the Secretariat on these changes, but en-  quired why, if the costs of printing were down, the  total costs of Documents and Publications Service had  increased.
(114) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Programme  and Budget) replied that originally the staff had been  exactly sufficient to meet the needs of the Department.  Publications had been reduced but the carry-over had  had to be absorbed. That was an expense which  would not occur again.
(115) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) asked how many of the  publications came out of the intellectual resources of  Unesco, and how many from outside.
(116) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  stated that 1954 was the last period for which there  had been a carry-over of publications from the  previous year.
(117) Mr. DELAVENAY (Chief, Documents and Pub-  lications Service) drew the attention of the Committee  to paragraph 16 in the justification (Documents and  Publications, paragraph 16), mentioning that there  had been no increase in staff except in the Sales and  Distribution Division, where a regional organization  was to be set up, The production of documents took  up as much of the time of his Service as did the pro-  duction of publications, if not more, and cuts in the  appropriations for contractual printing did not reduce  the work of all the divisions, The Service had not  only carried out printing work, without extra cost, in
19851, which, if done in the ordinary way outside the  House, would have come to $47,000, but had been  able to achieve a 12% reduction in the cost per stan-  dard page printed outside. Consequently, a reduc-  tion in the cost of outside printing did not mean a re-  duction in the work the Service was expected to do.
(118) In reply to the delegate of India, Mr.Delavenay  was unable to say what percentage of the manuscripts  were produced outside Unesco House.
(119) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) said that he had refer-  red to 1953-54, During the last General Conference  his delegation had raised this question and been in-  formed that a large number of publications were pro-  duced by the departments themselves.
(120) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) paid tribute to  the very satisfactory state of the Documents and Pub-  lications Service. He asked whether a code of prac-  tice containing the Publications Fund policies could be  made available, embodying the reforms introduced in  the rules of the Fund after Conferences.
(121) Mr. DELAVENAY (Chief, Documents and    ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  Publications Service) thanked the delegate of the Uni-  ted Kingdom. He reminded the Committee that the  iules governing the Publications Fund had been pro-  mulgated by the General Conference at its fourth ses-  sion and subsequently amended at the sixth and seventh  sessions. An amendmen: (cf. Corrigendum, page 25)  was also before the current session of the Conference,  it would be advisable, as Mr. Cowell had suggested,  to combine all the resolutions adopted at successive  sessions in a single document.
(122) Miss LAISE (United States of America) asked
(1) whether, in accordance with similar reforms in  other international organizations, it would not be pos-  sible to reduce the number of publications and docu-  ments in number and in length. (2) What efforts were  being made to achieve more economical publishing?
(3) Whether the transfer of the promotional activities  included in this chapter to Mass Communication could  not be studied when the reorganization of that Depart-  ment was being examined by the working party which  had been envisaged for the purpose.
(123) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General), in  reply tc questions by the delegate of the United States  of America, said that every Unesco document, after  being produced by the originating service, was exam-  ined by the Documents and Publications Service and  submitted to the Office of the Director-General which  decided whether it should b2 for general distribution  or whether the circulation should be restricted. There  was therefore a real central control.
(124) The Secretariat was entirely in favour of re-  ducing the number, format, length and volume of  documents. It asked only to be protected against the  often unreasonable requests of organizations, Member  States and National Commissions; protected also  against itself, for every secretariat had a tendency  towards bureaucracy.
(125} The Director-General saw no objection to the  proposal that the working party on the administrative  -structure of the Department of Mass Communication  should consider the pcssibility of making that Depart-  ment responsible for sales promotion, but nothing  should be done to anticipate the decisions the working  party might take about the organization of that  Department.
(126) Mr. DELAVENAY (Chief, Documents and Pub-  lications Service) replied to the comm.ents regarding  the costs of publishing and the decentralization of  printing contracts. The offset process, which was  often recommended as being cheaper than type-settirg  was more expensive in certain cases, for instance,  when a revised edition was contempiated. Lead type  was easier to readjust than the photographic plates for  offset, Offset was less expensive in certain special  cases: the printing of the proposed programme and  budget by the offset process had made possible an  economy of $5,000, and a considerable saving of  time.
(127) With regard to the efforts made to secure  lower rates for printing contracts, only 10% of the  contracts were made in "hard currency" countries,  such as Switzerland and the United States of America,  and, in the latter case, those contracts were mainly  for publications for local use. The remainder were  - 724 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON  divided between France, the Netherlands, Belgium,  the German Federal Republic, Austria, Italy, etc.  Consideration was being given to the possibility of  printing in Spain publications written in Spanish. Pub-  lications in Arabic were printed in Cairo and Beirut.
(128) In reply to a request from Mr. CABOUAT  (France) for information about the conclusions of the  thirty -seventh session of the Executive Board on the  question of reducing the volume of documents, Mr.  MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) added that  another question before the Board had been the reduc  tion of the items regularly placed upon its agenda. The  number and length of reports had not, however,been  reduced at all, The order to reduce the volume of  paper should come from above, from the General  Conference.
(129) Miss LAISE (United States of America)offered  to make a proposal and put it before the next meeting  of the Committee,
(130) Agreed.  PART III
(131) Chapter 1 was deferred until the arrival of the  Director-General.  CHAPTER 2: BUREAU OF THE COMPTROLLER
(132) Mr, HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) said that  the various functions and staffing pattern were much  the same in the budget for 1955-26 as they had been  in the past, except for the suppression of the $2,200  spent on rental of IBM equipment, and the inclusion  of $2,200 for an additional social security post. This  was necessary because staff members in the field  who had not been included in the pensions scheme had  now been included.
(133) Miss LAISE (United States of America) ques-  tioned the inclusion of $500 for appeals to the United  Nations Administrative Tribunal on pension fund  matters.
(134) Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptroller) replied  that this was a contingency item.  CHAPTER 3: BUREAU OF PERBONNEL AND MANAGEMENT
(135) Mr. FARR (Chief, Bureau of Personnel and  Management) remarked that the seventh session of  the Conference had reduced the service from 32 to
26 persons. The present proposals would now enable  the Bureau to do its work, some of which was complex  and difficult.  PROGRAMME AND BUDGET     Vi-12
(136) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) asked for a statement  giving the distribution of present staff nationwise  throughout the departments.
(337) Mr. FARR (Chief, Bureau of Personnel and  Management) replied that document 8C/ADM/11, which  was to come up for full discussion before the Adminis-  trative Commission, contained that information.
(138) Miss LAISE (United States of America) wished  for a statement on the number of reclassifications  planned, by comparison w:th those that had taken  place in 1953 and 1954.
(139) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Programme  and Budget), at the request of the Assistant Director-  Ceneral, explained that posts were subjected to a very  strict review to ensure that work was directly related  to grade, There was a possibility of reclassification  upwa."ds as well as downwards. In professional staff  in the ast two years, 25 had been upgraded and 7 down,
(140) Mi, BOW (Canada) asked for the budgetary im-  plications of the increases and decreases mentioned.
(141) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) asked why there were  so many upgradings.
(142) Mr, FARR (Chief, Bureau of Personnel and  Management) said that in a strict sense reclassifica-  tion was a change in grade of a post when its duties  had changed. In many cases there had been substan  tial changes in the duties of staff members, owing to  changes in the programme. That should be taken  into account in considering reclassification.
(143) Miss LAISE (United States of America) said  that there was a quantitative and a qualitative expan-  sion. When the new salary pattern along United  Nations lines had been introduced in 1952, one pur-  pose had been to broaden and increase the flexibility  of grading. How did reclassification in Unesco com-  pare, in terms of total size, with that effected in the  United Nations? Miss Laise suggested that caution  was called for in that direction,
(144) Mr. FARR (Chief, Bureau of Personnel and  Management) thought it would also be useful to have a  comparison of the grade structure of the Secretariat  as it was in 1953-54 and as it was proposed 1n the  present document, indicating the movement of the  overall structure.
(145) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) understood that the  criterion for upgrading was additional duties. Could  that point be illustrated at the next meeting with spe-  cial reference to some reclassified posts?  The meeting rose at 6.55 p.m.