(81) The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the United States  motion, which was rejected by 2 votes in favour, 6  against and 1 abstention,  {82) Mr, SECCO ELLAURI (Uruguay) thought that  proposals such as that put forward by the United  States representative should be accompanied by  figures showing the cost involved in the previous  and present budgets and the financial repercussions  of acceptance or rejection of the proposal. All such  suggestions should be assessed in that way, so that  their financial importance could be more clearly  realized,    PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VI-3
(83) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) re-  minded the Committee that a general table of proposed  subventions was contained in Annex ! of the Proposed  Programme and Budget,
(84) He agreed with Mr. Secco Ellauri that any new  proposal should be accompanied by exact figures  showing its budgetary repercussions.  The meeting rose at 6,30 p.m.  THIRD MEETING
2 November 1954 at 10 a.m.  Chairman : Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Australia)  ITEM 1.2 OF THE AGENDA: PRELIMINARY CONSIDERATION  OF TRE DRAFT PROGRAMME AND BUDGET FOR 1933-36,  BEFORE THE OPENING OF THE SESSION (continued)
(1) The CHAIRMAN welcomed the delegates of Indo-  nesia and the United Kingdom, and asked Mr. Maheu  to reply to some of the questions put by members of  the Committee the previous afternoon.
(2) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) said  that he would not attempt to reply forthwith to the  points raised the day before by various delegations  concerning the proposed programme and budget. He  would prefer to give explanations of concrete cases  when they arose during consideration of the docu-  ment, so as to make it clear, for instance, that the  difference between the present and higher budget  levels was not based on any idea of priorities and to  show how the Director-General had intended Sections  I and II to be closely linked and carefully balanced.  Of the five specific points raised by the United  States delegation, the first four were answered in  a document then being distributed. Information on  the fifth had been requested in Paris.
(3) He also drew attention to document 8C/PRG/21,  containing the observations of non-governmental  organizations having consultative status with Unesco  on the proposed programme for 1855-56, It was the  first time that those organizations had been so close-  ly associated by the Director-General in the pre-  paration of the programme; their representatives  had been convened to two meetings, one at an early  stage in the drafting of the programme, and the  other in September last, when the programme had  reached its final stage; the document before the  Conference was the report of the latter meeting.
(4) In conclusion, the Assistant Director-General  proposed, as an experiment, discussing fundamental  education projects irres-ective of the programme    chapter in which they were included (Education,  Social Sciences, Cultural Activities, Mass Commu-  nication, Exchange of Persons). That method would  bring out the close interdepeadence of the programme  chapters. Of course, after discussing the fundamen-  tal education projects as a whole, each would be  taken up in its appropriate chapter, so as not to in-  terfere with the inner cohesion of each of the pro-  gramme chapters. The Assistant Director-General  emph'sized that it would be an experiment, an ex-  ceptirasl measure, but one worth trying out,
(5) With reference to document 8C/PRG/21, con-  taining the observations of non-governmental organ-  izations on the draft programme, the CHAIR MAN  asked the Secretary to draw the Committee's utten-  tion to points relating specifically to subjects under  discussion, as they arose, and also to inform the  meeting of any comments made cn them by the Exe-  cutive Board, He fully supported the proposal by the  Assistant Director-General that the projects on Fun-  damental Education shov'd be followed through the  various chapters of the budget document and request-  ed the Secretariat to prepare a document showing the  points which would have to be taken up.
(6) The Chairman opened the discussion of Project
1.12: Clearing House and Advisory Services, He  asked the Committee whether it would address its  remarks to the project as a whole, or whether it  would prefer to split it up into its three sections:  the introduction and section A; section B; section C.
(7) Mr. BOW (Canada) asked for a fuller explana-  tion of the proposed expenditure shown under higher  level estimates in paragraph 63.
(8) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Programme  and Budget) explained that this expenditure referred  to staff costs. It was not possible to distinguish  - 651 -   vi-3 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  between staff time on the present, and on the higher  budgetary levels, but a certain part of staff costs  had been attributed to the latter.
(9) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) drew attention  to paragraph 402, where two additional posts were  mentioned, and asked whether {t was to be inferred  that they were in the higher level.  {10) Mr. RAO (Acting Head, Bureau of Programme  and Budget) referred to the staff tables given in pa-  ragraphs 411-414. An attempt had been made to  attribute a certain percentage of staff time to the  present level, and anothér to the higher.
(11) The two additional posts mentioned were with-  out reference to the budgetary level, Throughoutthe  document as a whole 10% of staff time had been attri-  buted to the higher level.
(12) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa-  tion) pointed out that there were projects in the high-  er budgetary level elsewhere in the Chapter which,  if accepted, would have to be serviced by the clear-  ing house,
(13) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) wished to know how any  savings on staff could be effected if the higher level  were not adopted,
(14) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) found it difficult  to see how, if the higher level were not voted, 10%  of a staff member could be dismissed.
(15) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Programme  and Budget) was glad that point had been raised.  When the Conference had finished examining the pro-  gramme and budget, there would not be a present and  a higher level budget but only cne integrated budget.  Whatever reductions in the proposed staff posts  might be necessary, they could not be foreseen until  that stage had been reached,
(16) Project i,12 was approved,
(17) The CHAIRMAN opened discussion of project
1.21, the development and improvement of school  systems and school teaching (paragraphs 112 to 142),  and asked Mr. Elvin to introduce the subject,
(18) Mr, ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa-  tion) said that the Director-General had felt it was  time that Unesco, so often asked to encourage a  particular branch of studies, looked into the balance  of the work of schoolchildren as a whole.
(19) Mr. LEE (United States of America) said that  his delegation regarded this section as one of the  most important of the entire programme. It was  essential that the Director-General should know the  views of the delegations on the way in which the three  resolutions should be carried out.
(20) The United States delegation had some criticisms  to offer with regard to terminology, procedures and  subjects for international conferences, which were  toc broad in scope,
(21) He suggested that Member States or groups of  Member States should be invited to take more    resolute measures to help themselves, by making  long-range plans and setting schedules for the achieve.  ment of specific goals, with sufficient precision for  the Director-General to take them into account as  criteria in his extension of assistance,
(22) The CHAIRMAN asked for further comments of  a general nature on the section under discussion,  {23) Mr. BOW (Canada) agreed with the remarks by  Mr. Lee but was opposed to the implication in the  draft budget that technical aid to Member States could  only be given if the higher budgetary level were  adopted.
(24) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  thought that an exchange of views would be more use-  ful when sections B and C were being discussed, but  he could forthwith assure the United States delegate  that the Secretariat shared his views on the substance  of the problem and thought that international assist-  ance should not relieve Sates of the need for taking  action at the national level, International action was  intended to supplement, promote and co-ordinate  national activities, but not to take their place, and  the more carefully those activities were planned, the  easier it would be to integrate international action  with them. Speaking to the delegate of Canada, the  Assistant Director-General explained that it was  along those lines that the Secretariat had planne« s  technical aid to Member States, auxiliary action  pending on proper planning. That was the very  reason why that project had been shown under the  higher budgetary level, like all other technical aiu  activities, which accounted for 60% of that level, The  project had been placed on that level, not because of  its degree of importance but because it presuppose  planning. The distinction thus established was pu :ly  one of logic. That also was why the first two re a  tions had been placed on the present level and the  third on the higher budgetary level. The question of  priorities was entirely unaffected and the Assistant  Director-General pointed out in that connexion that  the Canadian delegate's question had been answered  by the United States delegate, when he had expressed  the view that all the activities in question should be  given priority, though he might subsequently indicate  which projects he regarded as less important.
(25) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) had understood  that the idea of dividing the programme into two  budgetary ievels had been adopted in order to avoid  the difficult task of deciding what to cut out, if a  lower budget were voted. In that case, items on the  higher level could be disposed of, and the Conference  would still have a complete programme before it,  But if, once again, the programme, on a higher or  lower budgetary level, was to form an integrated  whole, it would be faced with the same problem as  in the past. The United Kingdom approved the plan  formulated by the Assistant Director-General, of  dividing the programme into three sections: con-  tinuing services, special activities carried out by  Unesco, and technical aid to Member States, but  maintained that the division should not be tied to  present and higher budgetary levels as they had  been,  - 652 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VI-3
(26) The CHAIR MAN stressed the importance of that  point, which would have a bearing on the discussions  of the next ten days.
(27) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) re-  minded the meeting that in the United Kingdom dele-  gate's absence he had set forth the Director-  General's views in his introductory statement and  tried to show along what lines the latter had planned  his programme; he had also drawn attention to the  fact that the Executive Board had unanimously ap-  proved that stand and had regarded it as a perfectly  sound interpretation of the General Conference's  instructions, According to the Director-General, the  programme was a single whole; the two budgetlevels  did not correspond to different degrees of priority,  Consequently, if the budget passed by the General  Conference should happen to be below the Director-  General's total reductions (i.e. total of the twc bud-  getary levels) and if it were therefore found neces-  sary to cut the programme, such cuts could not be  automatically made at the higher level, Admittedly,  that concept was opposed to the view adopted for the
1953-54 programme, according to which the higher  level carried priority B. But that did not mean that  the Director-General had misinterpreted the inten-  tions of the working party set up by the General Con-  ference at its seventh session to study the future  programme and development of Unesco. Far from  it, Indeed, when selecting certain items which  might be adopted if the budget were increased, the  working party had clearly chosen the most import-  ant projects, those that would be given super-  priority. The Director-General, in declaring that  the projects on the higher level were at least as  important as the others, had thus been true to the  spirit of the working party's report. The General  Conference and the Committee would no doubt be  obliged to make a choice; if, however, they were  not given a chance of making a choice and using  their discretion, th.y might rightly feel that they  had been faced with an accomplished fact. It was  out of deference to the General Conference and, more  especially its Advisory Committee on Programme  and Budget, that the Director-General had made a  point of granting them greater latitude for establish-  ing the priorities to be given to the various projects  at the two budgetary levels,
(28) The CHAIRMAN considered that a discussion  of the theoretical question arising out of a difference  of interpretation between the United Kingdom dele-  gation on the one hand, and the Director-General  and the Executive Board on the other, would not be  fruitful at that stage, The Committee would have to  propose its own order of priorities. He suggested  that it should first commend certain activities and  draw attention to those that were less useful, and  then go over the programme again in order to eli-  minate some of them, if necessary.
(29) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) wanted to know,  if the programme was looked upon as a whole, what  was the point of dividing it into present and higher  levels at all,
(30) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) re-  - 653 -     minded the meeting that, whilst the Conference had  requested the Director-General to draw a distinction  between two budgetary levels, it was nowhere said  that those levels had to correspond to different  degrees of priority. However, a reading of the work-  ing party's report showed that the higher level had  been reserved for the most important projects. For  his part, Mr. Maheu did not see why an expansion of  the programme should consist exclusively of second-  ary projects, For all those reasons, he felt justified  in saying that the Director-General, faced with am-  biguous instructions, had acted perfectly correctly.
(31) The CHAIRMAN thought it logical that, if the  budget were voted at the present level, the projects  actually adopted should be those put forward by the  Director-General at the lower level,
(32) Mr, MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) em-  phasized that, in any case, the Committee had to  make some choice, and, as the competent authority,  to establish priorities which it was not for the Secre-  tariat to prejudge, the main function of the General  Conference being precisely to discuss the programme,  Apart from the Director-General's proposals, dele-  gations had put forward proposals; 33 draft resolu-  tions had already been submitted and there would  surely be others, It was for the Committee to assess  their merits, and the Assistant Director-General saw  no reason why such an assessment should not be ex-  tended to include the entire programme, If the higher  budget were not adopted by the General Conference,  the Director-General would still be entitled to pro-  pose cuts in order to help the Committee, but only at  the end and in the light of the discussions of the Pro-  gramme and Budget Commission; any such proposals  would bear upon both budget levels,
133) Miss LAISE (United States of America) proposed  that, since it was difficult to evaluate priorities in  the General Conference, the Committee should faci-  litate Conference action by making recommendations  on what might be given priority if the present budget-  ary level were adopted. The Secretariat could then  be asked to formulate specific proposals in figures.
(34) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  thought that that was the only proper way to proceed.  During its preliminary discussion, the Committee  could already indicate what it considered important  without taking a final decision. Only on completion  of that preliminary discussion and discussion of the  draft resolutions submitted by delegations - could  the Committee put forward recommendations con-  cerning the relative priorities of projects in the pro-  gramme, The Secretariat was naturally at the Com-  mittee's disposal to assess the budgetary repercus-  sions of its evaluation of the various parts of the  programme, It would be dangerous to go further,
(35) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) supported the proposal.  There might be other possibilities, besides the  present or higher level budgets.
(36) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) agreed that it would be  wrong to prejudge the budgerary level at that  stage.   VI-3 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON
(37) Mr, CABOUAT (France) said that the French  delegation's interpretation of the two budgetary levels  was roughly the same as that of the United Kingdom  delegate, and that it proposed to ask for some pro-  jects to be transferred from one category to the  other, thus linking the idea of priority with that of  level, However, in view of what had been said, Mr,  Cabouat, on behalf of the French delegation, sup-  ported the Israeli delegate*s view. Speaking as  Rapporteur, he hoped that the report would include  all the factors which would enable them to form an  opinion on the relative importance of projects,
(38) The CHAIRMAN said that, as the Committee  was agreed on the method of procedure, it would  pursue the discussion of section A, paragraphs 137-
(39) Mr. LEE (United States of America) wished to  convey the dissatisfaction of the Education officials  of his country with the conduct of the international  conferences convened by the International Bureau  of Education, A great deal of time was wasted on  formal discussion of matters that were well known,  without anything very useful being achieved.
(40) The CHAIRMAN, speaking as Australian dele-  gate, mentioned the suggestion by his delegation that  reports on developments in Education should be  made to the International Bureau of Education not  yearly, but every two, three or four years, while  reports from Member States on a specific aspect of  education could be furnished in the interval, with  more fruitful results, Could Mr, Elvin take this  suggestion into account in his reply to the delegate  of the United States of America?
(41) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa-  tion) reminded the meeting that the conferences were  convened jointly by Unesco and the International  Bureau of Education, He added that the conferences  always considered a major and a minor topic of in-  ternational importance, in addition to the reports of  Member States, The suggestion by the Australian  delegate would be studied by the next meeting of the  joint committee of the two bodies,
(42) He suggested that the criticisms by the dele-  gate of the United States of America referred per-  haps to earlier conferences, since at the last meet-  ing the United States participants had declared them-  selves satisfied with the improved arrangements  made. The recommendations by those conferences  were often considered platitudinous by countries  which enjoyed an advanced system of education, but  they were illuminating for the less fortunate in this  respect. Many countries had made plans for educa-  tional development after the conferences. However  imperfect, Mr. Elvin felt there had been a marked  improvement in these conferences.
(43) Mr. LEE (United States of Arcerica) thought  that the Conference should change from a reporting  to a working conference.
(44) The CHAIRMAN enquired whether the delegate  of the United States of America wished his remarks  to appear in the report or in the records only.    PROGRAMME AND BUDGET
(45) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) asked for more information.  He gathered that the 1951 Conference on Public Edu-  cation had dealt with general problems concerning  the extension of school education, the 1952 Confer-  ence with equal access of girls and women to educa-  tion, the 1953 Conference with the training and status  of primary school teachers, and the 1954 Conference  with the problem of secondary school teachers. He  wished to know if he had been correctly informed,
(46) Mr, ELVIN (Director, Department of Education}  said that the main subject at each of the conferences  had been connected with the extension of school edu-  cation,
(47) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) thanked Mr. Elvin and  said that he had regarded the work of the International  Conference on Public Education as consisting mainly  in the submission of official reports on the progress  made in education in the various States.
(48) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) agreed that the  conferences had improved considerably and consi-  dered that much of the United States criticism had  been met. Their value lay not so much in the resolu-  tions as in the work that went into the making of them,
(49) The CHAIRMAN asked the Rapporteur to include  some references to the foregoing remarks by mem-  bers of the committee.
(50) Mr. CABOUAT (France) speaking as Rapporteur,  thought that the report should mention the United  Kingdom delegate's view that some working methods  had improved, and the hope expressed by the United  States delegate that the conferences would to an in-  creasing extent become working conferences instead  of meetings where reports were heard on the situa-  tion in various countries.
(51) Section A was adopted.  Section B (paregraphs 143-146)
(52) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)pointed  out that the Executive Board's attitude was clear; it  had voted for the principle underlying project B, and  had also considered that the form it might take should  depend on whether it could be carried out. He ex-  plained that the United Nations had an important  project for setting up a special Economic Develop-  ment Fund, which could be partly used for educational  development, The representative of the Secretary-  General of the United Nations would no doubt have an  opportunity to lay this matter before the General  Conference. But, though it seemed very unlikely  that the project could be carried into effect in the  near future, it was quite possible that other forms  of assistance might be put into operation before very  long. Detailed measures were already under consi-  deration, The situation might be expressed as  follows: Unesco had gone as far as it could with tech-  nical studies and the publicizing of information. In  addition, technical aid was provided for States re-  questing it, but experience had shown that shortage  of funds was essentially the obstacle to the develop-  ment of education in the underdeveloped countries.  - 654 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VI-3  Expert advice would not solve the problem; hence  the idea of setting up a special international fund to  assist countries which lacked the resources neces-  sary for that purpose. Should the United Nations  fund or other forms of direct assistance materialize  in the near future, Unesco would gladly drop its plan  for an International Educational Fund, but the Direc-  tor-General wondered whether the Organization  should continue large-scale propaganda in favour of  primary education if there was no chance of adequa‘e  international financial support. It was a matter of  deep concern to him, for hopes might be raised only  to be bitterly disappointed. Mr, Maheu concluded  by saying that the project which the Director-General  was submitting to the General Conference was essen-  tially a political and moral question,
(53) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) agreed with Mr. Maheu  that the crucial question at the basis of the entire  project was that of financial resources. The pro-  posed international fund could be the pivot of the  education progra.nme, It had been adopted by the  first conference of the Indian National Commission,  in January.
(54) Mr, Maheu had put a difficult question: if you  raise hopes and cannot fulfil them, what happens?  It was desirable, whatever the response, to focus  attention on the problem. Public opinion must be  mobilized by means of an intelligent campaign,
(35) Mr, LEE (United States of America) agreed  that the matter was of the highest importance, but  regretted to find a small work plan proposed for  such an important problem,
(56) Mr, MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) ex-  plained that the proposal under discussion was to  consider, in conjunction with the United Nations, the  possibility and expediency of setting up an Educa-  tional Development Fund and not to raise the fund  itself, A report would be submitted 10 the next ses-  sion of the General Conference which would thus  have more precise and detailed proposals before it,
(57) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) supported the  delegate of the United States of America on the  question of the actual budgetary entry. What exactly  was proposed to be done with the sums mentioned?
(58) Mr, ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  replied that the modest sum mentioned was intended  for travel to the United Nations and its organs to  spur them on to including education as an object of  expenditure in any more general fund, and for a  pamphlet to launch the idea. The question was whe-  ther Unesco should continue with that line of propa-  ganda as a separate movement,
(18) Mr, MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  printed out that comments by the Secretary-General  of the United Nations and by certain Specialized  phencics en ine Proposed Programme and Budget  or 1955-56 were contained in document 8C/PRG/20.  Ronex 1, reproducing a letter dated 15 September 1954  from the Secretary-General of the United Nations to  the Director-General, established the link between  Unescols project and the project of the United Nations.
(60) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) understood the budgetary  difficulties, but, as a member of the committee, he  would like to see a more forceful recommendation  for the creation of such a fund,
(61) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) sym-  pathized with the Committee. The project was too  important, even if planned to keep expenses down, to  be reduced to a single paragraph in Unesco's pro-  gramme, but the General Conference could express  its views on the basis of a draft resolution. He be-  lieved the Indian delegation was preparing a proposal  on the subject,
(62) The CHAIRMAN understqod Mr. Maheu to pro-  pose that the report should put forward a text indi-  cating the importance members of the Committee had  attached to the proposal, He requested the Assistant  Director-General to prepare a text for discussion,  and opened the debate on section C, paragraphs 147-
(63) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  thought that that project might afford an opportunity  of giving effect to the general ideas previously ex-  pressed by the Luued States delegate. The primary  purpose of a conference such as that proposed for  Latin America might be to get Ministers of Educa-  tion in that region to set realistic targets and frame  detailed plans for development at the national level.  Those plans would then be considered by Unesco at  the international level and from the technical point  of view. Once those conditions obtained, other  countries might very well supply additional funds,  A combination of these three methods - national ac-  tion, international technical aid and assistance from  other countries - would very possibly overcome the  financial obstacle referred to earlier.
(64) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  pointed out that this would be the third Regional Con-  ference on Free and Compulsory Education convened  by Unesco, At the end of 1852 there had been one in  Bombay, another was to be held in two months! time  in Cairo.
(65) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) wondered whe-  ther it would be wise to hold the Regional Conferences  at such short intervals, and whether it would not be  preferable to wait until practical results achieved by  the previous ones had shown their value. He sugges-  ted that the propoaed Regional Conference should be  postponed until 1957 or 1958,
(66) Mr, MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  pointed out that, unless a different way could be  found for dealing with the financial problem, he would  be inclined to agree with the United Kingdom delega-  tion, If the conference was to be a repetition of the  one held in Bombay, it would probably be satisfac-  tory from the technical angle, but, if no cutside  financial help were forthcoming, it seemed pointless  to speed up a purely technical action. Furth:rmore,  as the Organization of American States was intending  to convene a conference of Ministers of Education,  Unesco's failure to participate would hardly be under-  stood, In conclusion, the Assistant Director-General  - 855 -   vI-3 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON  hoped that a new procedure, such as he had outlined,  would emerge,
(67) Mr. LEE (United States of America) looked on  the approach suggested by the Assistant Director-  General as a far better solution of the question,
(68) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General), in  view of the Committee's attitude towards project A  (Internationai Conference on Public Education) and  project B (International Educational Development  Fund), thought it necessary to maintain project C.  He asked the United Kingdom delegate if he would be  willing to withdraw his proposal for the postpone-  ment of a regional conference on free and compulsory  education,
(69) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) proposed a compromise:  regional conferences should not take place too fre-  quently, The Latin American Conference could be  held in 1955 or 1956 and the African one in 1957.
(70) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  remarked that, from the point of view of the region  in which it was held, the Conference was always tke  first. Mr. Arthur had said that time was necessary  in order to evaluate its usefulness. The resuits of  the Bombay Conference could only be Hauted until  the financial question had been settlca, but there  were other effects, in particul;: chose arising from  a better acquaintance with ‘ ,. practice of neighbour-  ing countries,
(71) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) pointed out that the Con-  ference of Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the Ame-  rican countries would be meeting early in 1955, Al-  though that meeting and the proposed regional con-  ference on free and compulsory education in the  Latin American States would be dealing with different  subjects, he thought it would be advisable to hold the  latter conference at the end of 1956 so as to leave  as much time as possible between the two meetings,
(72) Mr. LEE (United States of America) referred  back to section B, He wished to make certain that  the resolution called for would be framed to give the  Director-General authority and latitude, but without  prejudging an answer,
(73) The CHAIRMAN replied that that was the type  of draft text he and the Director-General had in  mind, He asked whether the delegate of the United  Kingdom could not withdraw his suggestion of de-  laying the proposed conference for a couple of years.
(74) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) would not press  his point although he considered a delay would be  wiser.
(75) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) saw no reason to re-  frain from holding a conference where it might be as  useful as previous ones had been.
(76) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  thought the meeting should recognize the fluidity of  a position which developments in the next year (such  as a Conference organized by the Latin American    PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  States) might modify, The item should be marked as  neither a high nor a low priority one.
(77) Section C was adopted,
(78) The CHAIRMAN asked for a reference in the  Com”. _..ce's report to the views of the United States  delegation on the type of conference to be held, and  to the reservation made by the delegate of the United  Kingdom.  Section D: paragraphs 153-159
(79) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  introduced the section, saying that, in reply to a cri-  ticism made at the last General Conference, certain  aspects of child development had been put in this  section of the programme, He referred to the esta-  blishment in Thailand, in 1953-54, with considerable  assistance from the Thai Government, of an Institute  designed, firstly, co introduce this relatively new  concept in that country and, secondly, to show Mem-  ver States how methods could be successfully trans-  ferred from one country to another (document 8C/  PRG/ 20).
(80) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom), referring to  paragraph 158, enquired how far the Secretariat had  tried to discover what was at present being done to  prevent overlapping.
(8) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  replied that it was not Unesco's intention to embark  on a new study, but to bring an international point of  view to bear on subjects often well studied in depth,
(82) Section D was adopted.  Section E: paragraphs 160-162
(83) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educatior)  said that this section attempted to meet the feeling  that fundamental education work and the work of  school-teachers were closely linked, The future  -village school teacher could become aware of the  problems of fundamental education. À pilot project  was proposed for the modification of some teacher  training institutes through work in association with  a fundamental education centre.
(84) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) asked whether  the Secretariat had any particular training institure  in mind.
(85) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  said they had not started with any particular institute  in mind, although they had received suggestions,  The sum of $1,000 was intended for one long journey  to a country distant from Paris,  The meeting rose at 12,45 p. m.  - 656 -