IV-10 PROGRAMME AND BUDGET COMMISSION  TENTH MEETING
25 November 1954 at 17 am.  Chairman: Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland)  ITEM 8.4 OF THE REVSED AGENDA: CONSIDERATION OF THE  DRAFT PROGRAMME AND BUDGET, CHAPTER BY CHAPTER,  AND EXAMINATION OF SPECIAL REPORTS
(1) The CHAIRMAN indicated the method he in-  tended to follow in examining the programme: the  document would be studied section by section,  project by project, and resolution by resolution;  whenever a new item came up for discussion, he  would invite the representatives of the Executive  Board and the Advisofy Committee on Programme  and Budget to speak, and would then call upon the  delegates who had put down their names to speak  on the subject, Finally, he would give the  Director-General's representative an opportunity  of replying to the observations made.  ITEM 8.4:1: EDUCATION
(2) Mrs, PECSON (Executive Board) said that the  Executive Board had strongly recommended  approval of the programme and budget as drafted,  It had given considerable thought to the section  under discussion and had agreed to recommend its  adoption to the General Conference, She would  give the comments of the Executive Board on the  individual application of the principles of co-  operation, collaboration or consultation at the  relevant stages of the discussion,
(3) Mgr MAROUN {Lebanon) paid tribute to the  effort of concentration referred to in paragraph
55 of the Introduction which seemed to have  influenced the text, the organization of services  in the Secretariat and the programme of work,  alike.
(4) He considered, however, that something still  remained to be done and that some of the proposed  activities were still unco-ordinated and inadejuate,  In his view, the International Bureau of Education  might give the Secretariat useful help, especially  if it were granted financial aid.
(5) With regard to the extension of education, Mgr  Maroun advocated work in two directions:
(1) development of the system of regional con-  ferences; (2) increased aid to countries requesting  Unesco's help in planning their educational systems.
(6) Mrs. HALINA (Poland) explained the views of  her delegation with regard to certain educational  problems which it considered to be particularly  important: fundamental education, adult education,  women's education, free and compulsory  education,
(7) As Poland had instituted compulsory education  and had established many schools for adults, it had  scarcely any experience of fundamental education,  She believed, however, that the funds allocated to  that type of activity should be increased, particularly  for the training of qualified staff. She hopea that  the new Members admitted would bring the Organiza-  tion not only increased resources, but the benefit  of their experience in that field, ’
(8) The resolutions dealing with adult education  would receive the support of the Polish delegation,  which hoped that particular attention would be  given to raising the standard of education among  women, and that the press, films and other mass  communication media would be used in education,
(9) The Polish delegation shared the views of the  Uruguayan delegation on the need for making  primary education compulsory, and education at  all levels free (document 8C/DR/40), She  considered that, if her country had been able to  bear the cost of such a reform, despite the burdens  imposed on it by reconstruction, countries under  a less severe handicap should be able to solve the  problem considerably more easily.
(10) Another resolution presented by the Uruguayan  delegation (document 8C/DR/53), dealing with the  payment of adolescents during apprenticeship, also  seemed to her to be reasonable.
(11) In the view of the Polish delegation, the  training of teachers was a major problem. The new  feature to be introduced into the annual education  conferences at Geneva, i,e. the exchange of views  between educationists of all countries, seemed  likely to help in improving the teaching profession,  But she considered that the efforts of teachers  would be successful only if the whole of society  helped to build up a spirit of peace and inter-  national understanding.
(12) The Polish delegate hoped that Unesco would  not be content to include substantial appropriations  for education in its own budget but would endeavour  to induce Member States to devote a steadily  increasing proportion of their own funds to educa-  tion, science and culture, Lastly, it seemed to  her that the Organization's mission in the educa-  tional field was to promote contacts between  educationists in all countries and to make education  serve the cause of peace and understanding among  the peoples,
(13) Mr. ZAMORANO HERNANDEZ (Chile) said  that he had been unable to study the document under  consideration in sufficient detail.
(14) He thought it would have been well for the  Commission to set up a working party to present a  - 320 -   PKIGRAMME AND  brief study of the various chapters, so that in  considering the document, which was the most  important item on the Conferencz agenda, reference  could have been made to a systematic and detailed  evaluation of the subjects, ideas and measures  proposed, He understood, however, that there  were certain technical difficulties which had  preverted the adoption of that procedure, Although  he considered that the Commission should not  becom: involved in academic discussion, he  thought it important to mention certain ideas which  had a bearing on education.
(15) He agreed that priority should be given to  the extension of primary educa*‘on and to the  development of fundamental education. But he  thought that pre-school education had not received  sufficient attention, There seemed to be some  reluctance to give pre-school education a place  in the initial stage of the ordinary educational  system. He considered that pre-school education  should also be included in the free education  system which all Unesco's Member States were  advised tn adopt.
(16) Many of the difficulties encountered in the  discussion of educational problems arose, he  thought, from the use of terms which made the  normal exchange of ideas difficult, Although that  did not happen in the case of primary, pre-school  and technical and vocational education, it did  occur in connexion with secondary education. It  was of very great importance that in future Unesco  programmes, and at the regional Conferences  mentioned by the Lebanese delegate, some  standardized terminology should be worked out,  and at leas: a rought definition evolved of certain  ambiguous concepts which had given rise to  concern and usually fruitless argument in educa-  tional matters, With regard to secondary educa-  tion, for example, the terms "middle" or "inter-  mediate" eclucation were used, without any real  emphasis on the specific differences between  secondary and primary education. He thought that  attention shouid later be turned to a special study  of secondary education, regarded as a nodal  point in the educational system as a whole,  connecting vp with all its different branches:  marking the end of primary education, leading or  to university education, dovetailing in with tech-  nical and vocational education,
(17) The delegate of Chile considered that education  for all shou.d be the first principle of primary  education so that it should remain democratic.  He feit that, while European countries had already  instituted general compulsory education, for the  great bulk of the population in the Latin American  countries, for example, and in other continents,  the problem of primary education should be  considered in conjunction with that of providing  education for all, designed to train good citizens  and skilled workers,
(18) His purpose in making such general ohserva-  tions was to help in clarifying those problems for  future Unesco programmes and any regional  conferences that might be held.
(19) In reply to the remarks of the delegate of  Chile, Mr, CHEVALIER (Secretary of the    BUDGET COMMISSION IV-10  Commission) stated that, in accordance with Rule 9  of the Rules of Procedure, document 8C/5 had been  sent t* Member States by air on 28 June. As the  Confe.ence had started work on 12 November, the  time limits had been observed.
(20) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) mentioned that the  French National Commission had always taken a  very lively interest in the work of the Education  Department, and paid tribute to the efforts of  Mr. Beeby and Mr. Elvin, who had, in turn, been  the Head of the Department,
(21) He regretted that he was unable, on behalf of  his delegation, to approve the proposed programme  for the Department of Education,
(22) The disappearance of the Division of Education  for International Understanding had surprised the  French delegation most. The activities of that  division were supposed to be taken over by other  services in the same department, which, in carrying  out their work, were to bear in mind the need for  inter national understanding. Mr. François thought  that, if it were split up in that way, the section of  the programme would lose its point and cease to  have any force. He drew the Commission's  attention to various questions.
(23) Paragraph 163 ended with the sentence:  "Finally, a special responsibility falls on Unesco  and on Member States with regard to the orienta-  tion of school curricula towards the objective of  international co-operation". In the French text,  the term ''en outre' seemed unfortunate, as one of  Unesco's prime obligations was involved, He  thought the English text better drafted.
(24) Consideration of heading 1,2 showed that the  proposed appropriations for education for inter-  national understanding under the heading: "Pre-  School and School Education" had been substantially  reduced in comparison with earlier years, For
1955, they represented 30% of the total; for 1956  they had been reduced to 24%,
(25) Under the higter budgetary level, education for  international understanding accounted for 7% for
1965 and 7% for 1956.
(26) The total appropriations proposed for inter-  national understanding under the heading of pre-  school and school education amounted to 17% for
1955 and 12% for 1956,
(27) The delegate of France, however, considered  that the new budget ceiling should make it possible  to consider further projects.
(28) Mention was also made of international under-  standing in the paragraphs dealing with co-operation  with youth organizations (page 45). But the appro-  priations for that division had been reduced by 20%,
(29) Certain practical activities had been stopped  short. Studies had been undertaken with the object  of discovering means of promoting international  understanding in the different branches of teaching:  history, geography, literature, science; French  teachers had taken a great interest in ‘he question  and had attempted to act on the suggestions  emerging from the study. If it were interrupted,  Unesco might lose invaluable help.
(30) The delegate of France considered that the  programme of the Department of Education was  in conflict, on several points, with decisions taken  - 321 -   IV-10 PROGRAMME AND  by the General Conference in 1952, It had then been  decided to delete from the Education Department's  programme certain projects which had not seemed  vital, involving a total expenditure of $37, 000,  Several of those projects, however, were back in  the programme for 1955-56, Without denying that  they might be useful, Mr. François considered it  unnecessary to take them up again, If Unesco  wished to solve all the problems arising in the  educational field, the whole of its budget would  be insufficient,
(31) When considering the staffing patter:. of the  Department of Education (page 49), the French  delegation had felt that the department was tending  increasingly to become a supra-national Ministry  of Education. His delegation considered that such  a task was beyond Unesco's powers, and would  urge the Organization to concentrate: (1) exchange  of information and documentation; (2) extension of  fundamental education, and of compulsory primary  education; and (3) education for international  understanding.
(32) For the reasons he had given, the French  delegation would oppose certain projects and would  ask for cuts and transfers of appropriations.
(33) Mr. CALO (Italy) paid tribute to the work done  by Mr. Elvin and his colleagues,
(34) However, he was in almost complete agree-  ment with the observations of the French delegate,  and stressed the need for the Organization to  concentrate its efforts. He too considered that  the problems affecting yount people were extremely  important and that some of the projects in the  Department of Education's programme did not  appear vital,
(35) The Italian delegation had prepared draft  resolutions on various points. Those draft reso-  lutions had nearly been rejected because of their  budgetary implications. Mr. Calo pointed out that  they were calculated to simplify the programme  and to result in savings,
(36) The delegate of Italy had a proposal on the  question of concentration. The Secretariat should  invite Member States to make suggestions to the  next General Conference on how the programme  should be concentrated, The Secretariat would  draw up a scheme, based on those suggestions,  and would submit it to Member States for their  views, The scheme would provide a basis for the  Conference's work, so that wise decisions could  be taken,
(37) Mr. ZIMIN (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) pointed out that one of Unesco's prin-  cipal tasks was to develop education.
(38) Al children, of all races and religions,  and whether rich or poor, should be able to enjoy  the benefits of primary education at least. In the  years to come, Unesco should seek to introduce  free and compulsory education in all countries  where it did not already exist,
(39) The needs of the underdeveloped countries  should be considered with all possible care and  efforts should be made to meet them, But their  problems could not be solved simply by giving them  international aid. They should be helped to develop  BUDGET     - 322 -  COMMISSION  their domestic resources by making use of the  experience of countries having different social  systems. That question should be thoroughly  studied at the 1955 International Conference on  Education,
(40) The delegate of the USSR considered that  special attention should be devoted to teaching  methods; there was still much to be done in that  field,
(41) The needs of economic development raised  the problem of broadening technical training rot  only in the countries mentioned in the programme  but also ir other large areas where there were  underdeveloped countries.
(42) Those same needs also brought the problems  of higher education to the fore, since the object  of higher education was to train qualified national  leaders in vartous fields. In the Soviet delegation's  view, the omission of that problem from the pro-  gramme was a serious defect.
(43) The delegation of the USSR hoped that the  Director-General and the Executive Board would  take the observations just made into account in  carrying out the programme for 1955-56 and in  preparing the programme for the following two  years,
(44) Mrs, PINTO DE VIDAL (Uruguay) considered  that the chapter on education was the most  important that the General Conference had to  consider at its current session.
(45) She was surprised that a Uruguayan draft  resolution, dealing with free education, had not  been submitted to the General Conference, In  that connexion, she mentioned that she had already  stated several times that, in her country, education  was secular, free at all levels, and compulsory  at the primary level, and that Uruguay hoped also  to be able to make secondary education compulsory.  She wondered whether Unesco, with its great pro-  gramme for international understanding, was not  under an obligation to launch the idea of free educa-  tion as a major theme, It was intolerable that  there should be children in the world who were able  to learn simply because their economic circum-  stances were easy while others were obliged to  forgo the benefits of education,
(46) She thought it would be interesting to draw up  statistics on armaments production in all countries  to see what financial contribution each individual  in a particular country had to make to give his  country arms enough to put it on a war footing.  It would then be seen whether a reduction in that  contribution would make it possible for all the  citizens of a country to help to provide free  education for the nation's children, All countries  should do everything in their power to institute  compulsory education,
(47) Another subject on which she had already  touched, and to which she wished to return, was  the problem of literacy, She thought that literacy  work would be useless without fundamental  education, Besides knowing how to read and write,  people needed to know about everything connected  with their health, housing and clothing. That was  one of the problems that Unesco had to solve and  any money spent on it was well spent.   PROGRAMME AND
(48) She also wished to speak on the question of  rural teachers, Rural teachers should not only  instruct the children but should guide and counsel  the whole neighbourhood, so that the peasants  would acquire ideas that would otherwise never  reach them,
(49) With regard to the programme for international  understanding, she regretted that Mr. Dlring's  report made no mention of the greatest word in  man's language - "mother", The first requisite  for international understanding was that mothers  should be capable of imbuing their children with  love of the family and of their neighbour, so that  they should never go to war to kill the children of  other mothers,  {50) She thought that the pre-school education to  which the Chilean delegate had referred should  also be made free,
(51) Mrs. Pinto de Vidal repeated what she had  already said on other occasions with regard to the  education of women, Women, as wives and mothers,  were bound to be interested in subjects other than  those which were taught to men: domestic economy,  motherhood, hygiene and child-care,
(52) With regard to the social and legal status of  women - a question which had already been raised  at the United Nations - the delegate of Uruguay said  that neither in South nor in North America did all  women yet enjcy civil and political rights, In  Uruguay, however, women had full rights and her  delegation hoped that women throughout the world  would eventually possess the same privileges.
(53) Lastly she felt that little had so far been done  to spread information about the United Nations.  Everyone had seen pamphlets explaining what  Unesco, WHO, FAO and UNICEF were, but  children in primary and secondary schools had  only hazy ideas about those organizations. She  thought that Unesco should bring out primers  explaining why the United Nations came into exist-  ence and what Specialized Agencies were associated  with the organization,
(54) Mrs, ARUNDALE (India) was of the opinion  that the programme of the Department of Education  was in line with Unesco's educational ideals,  although more emphasis should be put on funda-  mental education, the basis of all educa*‘nn,
(55) Too much discussion had taken place on the  topic of international understanding and co-operation  and too little had been achieved in their attainment.  The problem was how to achieve international  understanding, War had taught humanity the  desirability of peace and the problem was now how  to eradicate ideas of war and promote ideas of  peace in the hearts of children throughout the  world, The programme dealt with problems con-  nected with education but in her opinion did not go  to the heart of the matter,
(56) She pointed out that education and understand-  ing were based on love, That love included not  only humanity, but a love of nature in all forms,  Advantage should be taken of the natural love in  every child and every opportunity taken of promoting  it. Children should be taught from the earliest  age to understand the feelings of all living things.  For that purpose pre-school education was of    BUDGET COMMISSION 1V-16  tremendous importance as was also the education  of mothers. Education was a matter not only of  techniques but of the heart.
(57) With regard to youth, it was necessary to  help, through culture, in the teaching of an  understanding of natural love. Youth should be  taught the noble ideals of citizenship, of spiritual  life and of the philosophy of life, and given a  desire for knowledge, The fundamental principle  to be followed was simplification of ideals. After  the ideals had been accepted techniques would  follow.
(58) She concluded by stressing the importance of  seeing that the right means were used to achieve  Unesco's objectives and of ensuring that spir:tual  as well as other values were absorbed in the  process,
(59) The CHAIRMAN reminded the Commission  that it was considering the programme for 1955-56  alone, and that observations about future pro-  grammes could be put forward at a later stage.
(60) Mr, GARBARINI ISLAS (International Labour  Organization) was very pleased with the arrange-  ments for collaboration between the Organization  he represented and Unesco, a signal instance of  which was the signing of the memorandum, dated
14 October 1954, on vocational and technical  training and allied subjects.
(61) The comments of the Director-General of the  International Labour Office nn Unesco's programme  for 1955-56 appeared in ducument 8C/PRG/ 20,  Annex II, page 8, Paragraphs 77 and 79 in the  Exchange of Persons chapter dealt with the ex-  change of workers, an activity In which the two  organizations could usefully co-operate. Para-  graph 85 of the same chapter dealt with longer-  term exchanges, which was another matter in  which the two organizations might collaborate. In  the paragraph dealing with workers abroad and  employment exchange, however, no mention was  made of collaboration with ILO, though that was,  no doubt, an oversight,
(62) The need for collaboration between the two  organizations was recognized in connexion with  the survey of psychological factors affecting  productivity, i.e, the social imnact of industrial-  ization, In that connexion, ILO had made a study  of the human factors affecting productivity, labour  management relations, etc.,... He was therefore  pleased at the suggestion that the survey of the  psychological, cultural and sociological factors  affecting p-oductivity, mentioned on page 98 of  the programme, should be carried out in close  collaboration with ILO.
(63) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of  Education) remarked that it would be difficult to  be brief if he was to answer all the points which  had been raised during the discussion.
(64) In the first place, the Commission was  considering a draft programme, to which, without  doubt, improvements could be made. li. the  second place, most of the points raised by delega-  tions had been thought of by the Secretariat, had  been given its consideration and had either been  - 323 -   IV-10 PROGRAMME AND  rejected or dealt with in a spirit of compromise in  the interests of a balanced programme,
(65) Delegations had thought that the programme  should be more concentrated but, on the other  hand, had suggested that more emphasis should be  given to fundamental education, to the extension  ot schooling, to women's education, to adult  education and to work on child development. If  the programme was to be more concentrated, it  would not be possible to emphasize all these  various branches of education, It was difficult to  obtain a balance between the various wishes of  Member States on the budget at the Department's  disposal, In preparing the programme, the  Department had observed the request of the  Economic and Social Council, namely, that priority  should be given to fundamental education nd that  work on other branches should be kept at a stable  level,
(66) Referring to the remarks of the delegate of  France, he explained that the Secretariat, backed  by the Expert Committee, had felt that it was con-  fusing to have a section in the programme devoted  to education for international understanding, as  much of the work undertaken in that field came  under other sections. Further, the Department  thought that, in the field of education, it was wrong  to suppose that it was necessary to have special  instruction in that matter; the idea should be part  of every good education,
(67) He questioned the points made by the delegate  of France in connexion with the budget, pointing out  that formerly the section had contained four parts,  two of which had been transferred to other parts  of the programme, If those two parts were removed  from the sections in which they now were and put in  a separate section, there would be an increase in  budget requirements of $9,000, He reassured the  Commission that the Department would not diminish  its efforts with regard to education for inter-  national understanding but would concentrate on  the idea that such education was part of any good  education,
(68) In answer to the remarks made by the delegate  of Chile concerning confusion of terms used in  documents, he said that the Department was trying  through its clearing house to establish a glossary  of terms used in the field of education.
(69) Concentration was not always synonymous  with elimination of small expenditures. In some  cases a small subvention was all that was needed  to set in motion a project which would be of great  value, Ile quoted as an example the benefits which  would accrue from spending a small sum of money  on a study of the causes of failure in school. Such  a study would not only result in financial gain but  would be of great use in dealing with the retarded  child.
(70) He concluded by repeating that the Depart-  ment had tried to attain a reasonable balance in  the programme in the light of the budget at its  disposal.
(71) The CHAIRMAN stated that the Commission  did not have to vote on the preamble tc the  education chapter,    BUDGET COMMISSION  Project 1.11: Co-operation with International  Organizations and Institutions
(72) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commission)  mentioned that the Advisory Committee had made  no observations on project 1.11,
(73) Mr, ESTELRICH (Spain) considered that the  problem of co-operation with international non-  governmental organizations and agencies was  closely bound up with what the delegates of Lebanon,  France and Italy had said during the general dis-  cussion and with what the Director of the Depart-  ment of Education had just stated.
(74) He laid great stress on the concentration of  projects - a principle that he supported - but there  was a preliminary question to be considered. The  delegate of Spain, like Mr. Elvin, felt that concen-  tration was not an end in itself, but rather denoted  a system of concentrated projects, linked up with  the whole problem of education. Agreement should  be reached on what Unesco was to do in that  important field. It would also be well to apportion  responsibilities, with regard to the general problem  of education, between Member States, Unesco itself,  national organizations and institutions, and inter-  national governmental and non-governmental  orgamzations,
(75) In document 8C/PRG/21, which contained  the observations of international non-governmental  organizations, the following statement regarding  education appeared (page 3): "It is noted with  concern that both the proportions and the actual  sums of money spent by the Department of  Education through non-governmental organizations,  in the form of subventions or contracts, are  noticeably smaller than is the case for other  departments... This is all the more regrettable  in view of the undoubted competence of a number  of non-governmental urganizations which have  long and vali.able experience in the field of  education". If the nature of subventions granted  to non-governmental organizations were considered,  however, it might be said that Unesco, far from  lagging behind, was doing too much. Definite  criteria should therefore be laid down concerning  economi': xd to international educational organiza-  tions,
(76) To sum up, the Spanish delegation hoped,  firstly, that fuller information than that appearing  in the programme would be provided about the  practical activities in connexion with the provision  of technical advice or other matters, that Unesco  contemplated handing over io the organizations;  secondly, that, once such a study had been carried  out, the subventions to bodies that were doing  educational work for their own purposes would be  placed in category 3, as recommended in the  Advisory Committee's Report; thirdly, that the  Secretariat would consider the possibility of  granting such aid in future by means of contracts  for the execution of specific activities.
(77) The delegate of Spain stated that his proposal  was not to abolish any of the proposed subventions,  nor to belittle the work that many organizations  could do. The reason for the criterion he suggested  was the inevitable paucity of Unesco's resources,  - 324 -   PROGRAMME AND  which made it essential to establish strict  priorities for expenditure,
(78) Mr. PRASAD (India) supported the proposal  to adopt project 1.11. With regard to paragraph
20 concerning the International Bureau of  Education, he suggested that the Director-  General should be asked to come io an agreement  with IBE to make all its working documents  available to Member States on request.
(79) Secondly, with regard to paragraph 45 con-  cerning the International Association of Univer-  sities, he asked whether membership of the  Association was confined to individual universities  or was open to national bureaux of universities,  In his opinion, membership should be open to  national bureaux, because, if confined to single  universities, membership, in many cases, would  be only normninai,
(80) Mr. NIELSEN (Denmark), answering the  question of the delegate of India, said that  membership of the Association was open either  to individual universities as members or to  existing associations of universities as associate  members,
(81) Mr. AL-KOUSSY (Egypt) said that he would  comment on paragraphs 20, 23, 41 and 49,
(82) He agreed with the remarks made by the  delegate of Uruguay, in his opening speech at the  plenary meeting, that subventions should be  granted to organizations only if they fulfilled the  criteria of universality and efficiency based on  cheapness. He also supported the view expressed  by the delegate of India that, to make the work of  the organizations effective, it was necessary that  all Member States knew about them and their  work,
(83) With regard to the Unesco Institutes in  Germany, his delegation would like to have further  information in order that it could judge their  value,
(84) Some organizations were important from a  local and international point of view because their  work enhanced that of Unesco. He expressed  surprise that in many cases only nominal sub-  ventions were being granted to such organizations
(85) In his opinion, Unesco should give its  strongest support to the International Bureau of  Education, the World Federation for Mental  Health, the New Education Fellowship and the  World Confederation of Organizations of the  Teaching Profession, because such organizations  were very important io Unesco's work, He was  not ag=inst support fur other organizations but  felt that those four should be given priority as  they were widely international and were capable  of arousing awareness of Unesco's work.
(86) He proposed that the subventions to those  four organizations should be increased and that  the Commission should not agree to make a  Subvention which would merely justify their  continued existence, If the subventions were  not increased, he would abstain from voting,
(87) Mrs. PINTO DE VIDAL (Uruguay) endorsed    BUDGET COMMISSION 1V-10  the comments of the delegate of Egypt. She  thought that Unesco should not curtail its aid to  any bodies co-operating with it in the educational  field. That did not mean that aid should be given  to all institutions; a study would have to be made  of the activities which those associations carried  on in the various countries.
(88) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that subventions  were not necessarily proportional to the importance  of the organizations which received them; the  needs of organizations were also taken into account,
(89) He would, however, ask the representative  of the Director-General to give all the necessary  details on that point,
(90) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) indicated that  he had the same comment to make on paragraphs
25, 30, 34, 37, 40, 44, 51 and 54, which was to  the effect that, although he was in favour of sub-  ventions being granted for specific purposes, he  thought that the method used for their distribution  was unfair. In his opinion, it was a waste of time  for the General Conference to grant subventions  and e suggested that the Secretariat should be  asked to consider making a !irge subvention to a  really international organization for global distri-  bution to smaller orgamzations doing work of  interes. to Unesco,
(91) Mr. BROWNELL (United States of America)  felt convinced that the best way of disseminating  the work of Unesco for international understanding  was .arc igh co-operation with other organizations  and Institutions. In his opinion, subventions were  only warranted if organizations had an expanding  influence and if ‘heir work did not overlap or  duplicate that of other organizations or if their  contribution to the work of Unesco was unique.  He thought that organizations should be encouraged  to be self-supporting but that adequate warning  should be given if Unesco intended to decrease its  subvention.
(92) With regard to paragraphs 38-40 concerning  the subvention to the Joint Committee of Inter-  national feachers' Federations, he said that, if  he had been correctly informed, contributions of  members to the organization amounted to $438,  He opposed the granting of a subvention four times  the amount of members' contributions to an  o1 ganization which apparently competed with  existing organizations, without evidence that it  would have an expanding influence,
(93) He found it difficult to understand why the  subvention to the World Confederation of Organ-  izations of the Teaching Profession had been  reduced, That organization showed ample evidence  of increased growth, It should continue to receive  a bigger subvention.
(94) He concluded by suggesting that the subvention  proposed for the Joint Committee of International  Teachers! Federations should be deleted and that  the subvention to the “World Confederation of Organ-  izations of the Teaching Profession should be  restored to its previous figure,
(95) Mr. FORSYTH (New Zealand) strongly supported  - 325 -   IV-10 PROGRAMME AND  the remarks and proposals of the United States  delegate. While not wishing to repeat the remarks  of the delegates of Egypt and the United States of  America, he stressed the importance of the  teaching profession, In his opinion, money was  being spent on how international understanding  was to be taught when it should be spent on dis-  cussing who was to teach it, The World Confedera-  tion of Organizations of the Teaching Profession  v as a virile organizatior, which could provide  Unesco with a medium for teaching international  understanding. He thought that it would be sensible  and appropriate to grant a larger subvention to  that organization and to ask it to teach abcut the  ideals and aims of Unesco.
(96) Mr, HACQUAERT (Belgium) thought the  programme of the Department of Education  excellent, and congratulated the Secretariat on it.
(97) With reference to paragraphs 55 to 62, and
385, he stressed the need for co-ordinating the  activities of tne three Unesco Institutes in  Germany, The Institute at Gauting did not seem  to him to have produced the results expected of  it. Unesco should endeavour to turn it into an  international centre for German youth and, if  possible, for young people of other countries too.
(98) Mrs, BURCHULADZE (Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics) considered that the three  Institutes set up by Unesco in the German Federal  Republic in 1951 were not very international in  character.
(99) She suggested that they should be financed,  not out of Unesco funds, but by special contributions  from governments, The sums allocated to main-  taining the Institutes would be better employed if  spent on financial aid to underdeveloped countries  or on other tasks connected with international co-  operation and mutual understanding.
(100) She emphasized that the Advisory Committee  had also expressed doubts about the usefulness of  the financial aid given to the Institutes at a time  when the Organization's resources were needed  for more important tasks.
(1£1) Mr. ROBERTSON (United Kingdom), re-  ‘erring to the Unesco institutes in Germany, said  that his delegation would support the proposed  subvention but not without hesitation, and only  Forause it was suggested in the programme and  budget document that Unesco's financial help should  taper off and cease, It would perhaps be unfair  to say that there were grave doubts about the work  of the Institutes, but it was a temperate claim  that they had failed to establish widespread  confidence,
(102) He suggested that, owing to the size of the  proposed subvention and the perplexity which  surrounded the work of the institutes, it would  be preferable that the critical study should be  entrusted to a small number of independent  experts, as being th? best method of obtaining  an unbiased opinion,
(103) Mr. CALO (Italy) drew the attention of  delegates to the situation of some of the international    BUDGET COMMISSION  crganizations to which it was proposed to grant  subventions, Geaerally speaking, he would have  liked the ri, orts submitted by the organizations  to be communicated to Member States,
(104) The New Education Fellowship did not seem  to have maintained its previous level of activity,
(105) The World Organization for Early Childhood  Education, which could undoubtedly give Unesco  useful help, was going through a serious crisis.  Its national commuttees were divided. As things  stood, it was difficult to foresee what contribution  it would be able to make. The proposed subvention  should therefore be approved subject to the proviso  that the World Organization should surmount its  crisis and provide certain guarantees,
(103) The delegate of Italy had no criticism to  make of the International Federation of Children's  Communities. He wondered, however, whether  children's communities, which had been set up to  deal with the special conditions of the post-war  period, were still serving a useful purpose.
(107) Mr, Calo wanted further details about the  International Association of Universities, and asked  what was its relation to the Association of University  Professors and Lecturers. He thought that one  or other of the associations, or both, might be  commissioned to solve the problems of the equiva-  lence of university degrees, and might be asked to  consider how universities could help in adult educa-  tion,
(108) Mr. LAUGIER (France) proposed that the  question of the amounts of subventions be referred  to the Executive Board, He did not consider that  the Commission should study it in detail.
(109) Mr, LOEFLER (German Federal Republic)  said that he had already tried to clarify German  feeling on the three Unesco institutes in Germany  and referred to the Director-General's remarks  about encouraging their work, There were  several educators at the General Conference who  had attended the Conference of the Institute for  Education in Hamburg and who knew what the  position was. He was grateful to the delegates  of Belgium and the United Kingdom for their  remarks. He supported the suggestion made by  the delegate of the United Kingdom that any study  should be entrusted to independent experts,
(110) He asked the Commission to support the  institutes for a further two years in order that it  might be seen whether their work for Unesco  should continue,
(111) Mr, FRANCOIS (France) shared the Belgian  delegate's opinion with regard ‘o the Unesco  Institutes in Germany, particularly the Institute  at Gauting, which seemed to him to be the only  body of its kind capable of studying technical  problems,
(112) He considered the suggestion by the delegate  of the USSR concerning the financing of the institutes  to be dangerous, Their international character  could be maintained only if they received funds from  an international organization, If they were financed  by governments, they might become platforms for  the various doctrines in conflict in the world.  - 326 -   PROGRAMME AND
(113) In reply to the remark by the delegate of  Italy, Mr. Frangois thought that the World Organ-  ization for Early Childhood Education would emerge  safely from the crisis through which it was passing.
(114) He did not think that Unesco could cast off  the International Federation of Childrer's Commu-  nities, Unesco itself had set it up, and most of the  needs which children's communities met still  existed, mn very large number of children were  still suffering from the condition of society and  were obliged to leave their families temporarily  for health or other reasons. In children's  communities they found a new family life. The  French delegation therefore strongly supported  the grant of a subvention to the Federation.
(115) Mr. ZAMORANO HERNANDEZ (Chile)  considered that the Commission had too few data  about the problem of subventions to be able to  take decisions on any amendments suggested,  He believed that the best course was to leave the  solution of the problem to the Executive Board to  be appointed at the current session of the General  Conference. The new Executive Board and Unesco's  technical services would be able to reach the  right decisions on international organizations,  about which information was rather vague.
(116) The CHAIRMAN pointed out to the delegate  of Chile that the subventions had already been  approved by the Executive Board and the Advisory  Committee on Programme and Budget.
(117) Mr. ZAMORANO HERNANDEZ (Chile)  explained that he was referring to the subventions  to be granted to the international organizations in  the future.
(118) Mr, NIELSEN (Denmark) said, in connexion  with the remarks made by the delegate of Italy  about the World Organization for Early Childhood  Education (paragraphs 28 and 29), that he was  glad that that work was to continue, The  differences of opinion were domestic matters  within the purview of the Organization and,  according to his information, were near settle-  ment, He was in favour of granting that Organ-  ization a subvention.
(119) With regard to Unesco institutes in Germany,  when those institutes were founded it was intended  that they should be self-supporting through voluntary  contributions from Member States but those con-  tributions had not proved sufficient, The Danish  Government was still willing to make a  contribution to the institutes, He did not olject  to the United Kingdom proposal if it would help  a decision to be arrived at on the usefulness of  the work being done, It would be harmful to the  reputation of Unesco if they were dropped at the  present stage. He judged from previous discussions  that most countries were interested in the experi-  ment of uniting the educational and social aspects  of the youth problem, If the experiment were  successful, similar institutes could be set up in  other parts of the world.
(120) Mr. AL-HILLI (Iraq) thought that subventions    BUDGET COMMISSION 1v-10  in the bracket from $2, 000-6, 500 should be  allocated in accordance with services rendered,  In order to do that, reports of the activities of  organizations should be studied.
(121) He proposed that Unesco should grant sub-  ventions to organizations and authcrize the Director-  General to request them to carry out specific work.  The amount of the subvention should be decided by  the Director-General and the orgamzation concerned,
(122y Mr, ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa-  tion) reminded the Commission that it was dis-  cussing subventions, Contracts brought no financial  benefit to organizations,
(123) Replying for the Secretariat to the remark that  delegations had not received enough information  about organizations, he pointed out that document
8C/ADM/20 contained very adequate information.  If delegations were nct satisfied with the infor mation  in that document, the Secretariat would be more  than willing to supply further details,
(124) In connexion with the criteria by which sub-  ventions should be granted, the Secretariat  considered not only services rendered but also  the usefulness to Unesco of the continuance of any  organization, It was sometimes more valuable to  keep an orgamzation in existence than for Unesco  to undertake the work itself,
(125) In answer to the references of the delegate of  Italy to the World Organization for Early Childhood  Education, he said that the view of the Secretariat  was that the internal differences were being resolved.  The Secretariat was watching the situation carefully.
(126) The United States proposal concerning the  subvention to the Joint Committee of International  Teachers! Federations would, if adopted, suppress  an organization which was "a child of Unesco". It  was true that its work overlapped that of another  organization, but he strongly advised the Commission  to recognize both. The Joint Committee was  preparing a Teachers! Charter, which would be of  the utmost value to teachers throughout the world,
(127) The Secretariat could give more information  to delegations about the Unesco institutes in  Germany if required.
(128) Concerning the questi 1 of procedure, the  question of each subvention was carefully examined  by the Executive Board and by the Advisory Com-  mittee on Programme and Budget and approved by  them befor? being sent to the Commission and the  General C:n’erence. In principle a decision on  subventinns had to be taken by the Commission and  the General Conference.
(129) The CHAIRMAN asked delegates to take a  decision on the proposed amendments to resolution
(130) He called for a vote on the French delegation's  proposal, which was to refer the subventions to  international educational organizations to the  Executive Board for consideration,
(131) Mr. LAUGIER (France) wished to make it  clear that his delegation was in favour of granting  subventions to many organizaticns, provided that  they were thoroughly studied beforehand, It had  suggested referring the details of subventions to  - 327 -
1V-10 PROGRAMME AND  the Board, in order to avoid protracted discussions  in the Commission. He therefore proposed that a  vote be taken on resnlution ‘.,f, on the under-  standing that the Executive Board would reconsider  the proposed figures, which would then be studied  in the light of further information obtained about  all the organizations.
(132) The proposal was seconded by the delegates  of Lebanon and Liberia,
(133) The CHAIRMAN called for a vole on the  French proposal, which was rejected by 18 votes to
10, with 12 abstentions.
(134) He asked the Commission to take a decision  on the amendment, proposed by the delegatio" cf  Egypt, to raise the subvention to the New Education  Fellowship.
(135) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) observed that the  Executive Board and the Advisory Committee on  Programme and Budget had already carefully  examined the proposed figures for the subventions.  He wished to know the Executive Board's opinion,
(136) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) informed  the Commission that those items were studied  singly by the Executive Board in the light of  information received from the Secretariat. A  special committee had been created by the Exe-  cutive Board to study the whole question of sub-  ventions.
(127) The Executive Board, after very lengthy  consideration, had agreed to recommend to the  General Conference approval of the subventions  to the Unesco institutes in Germany in order that  they could carry on.
(138) Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia), raising a  question of procedure, asked whether, as the  Commission had not received comments from the  Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget  on the question of subventions, the Commission  should proceed to a decision, As he did not  believe that the Commission was in a position to  take action in that respect, he supported the  proposal by the delegate of France that the sub-  ventions should be forwarded to the Executive  Board for decision,
(139) The CHAIRMAN mentioned that the report  of the Advisory Committee on Programme and  Budget (document 8C/BUD/1) had been communica-  ted to all delegates, and that the document  contained no observations on draft resolution 1,11.
(140) He stated that the proposed amendr.ients  would involve an increase of $14, 000 in the  appropriations.    BUDGET COMMISSION
(141) Mr, ELVIN (Director, Department of  Education) said that the responsibility would rest  with the Commission. If the Commission decided  to increase a subvention, it would also have to  decide where a corresponding reduction was to  be made,
(142) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon; urged that the  balance between the different parts of the programme  be maintained.
(143) As the amendment proposed by the Egyptian  delegation was not seconded, no vote was taken on it,
(144) Another amendment, also proposed by the  Egyptian delegation, to raise the subvention to the  World Federation for Mental Health was not  seconded, ard no vole was taken on it,
(145) The CHAIRMAN called for a vote on a third  amendment, proposed by the delegation of Egypt,  to raise the subvention to the World Confederation  of Organizations of the Teaching Profession to  $6,000 for each of the two years,
(146) The proposal was seconded by the delegate  of the United States of America,
(147) Approved by 17 votes to 11, with 15  abstentions.
(148) The CHAIRMAN called for a vote on an  amendraent, proposed by the delegate of the United  States of America, to delete the proposed sub-  vertion to the Joint Committee of International  Teachers! Federations.
(149) The proposal was seconded by the delegates  of Egypt and Costa Rica.
(150) Rejected by 17 votes to 14, with 11 abstentions,
(151) The CHAIRMAN called for a vote on the  proposal by the delegate of the USSR with regard  to the financing of the Unesco institutes in Germany.
(152) Mrs. BURCHULADZE (Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics) stated that she had not intended  to make a formal proposal for deleting the sub-  vention to the Unesco institutes in Germany, but  had simply wished to indicate why she would  abstain from voting on resolution 1, 11.
(153) A vote was taken on resolution 1,11, with  the approved amendment.
(154) Adopted by 40 votes, with 3 abstentions.  ‘i he meeting rose at 1, 30 p.m.  - 328 -