(117) The Uruguayan resolution (document 8C/DR/38)  was adopted by 24 votes to 2, with 19 abstentions.
(118) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commis-  sion) read out draft resclution DR/55 submitted by  the Uruguayan delegation and said that the Advisory  Committee recommended that the first paragraph be  adopted. In its remarks on the Social Sciences  chapter, the Committee had added that it also recom-  mended adoption of sub-paragraph (a), but classed  the study only in category 3. There were no  budgetary implications.
(113) The CHAIRMAN proposed taking a vote on the  first paragraph and postponing consideration of the  rest until the Social Sciences chapter was discussed.
(120) Approved.
(121) With reference to DR/80, the CHAIRMAN, in  the absence of comments from the Advisory Com-  mittee, suggested that the Italian draft resolution  be referred back to the Committee.
(122) Mr. CALO (Italy) said that, as the project had  no budgetary implications, it could be discussed  straight away.
(123) The CHAIRMAN observed that the resolution  began with the words: "Contracts will be  concluded .....
(124) Mr. VITO (Italy) then explained that the Itahan  delegation suggested deleting the international    BUDGET COMMISSION IV-13  seminars, which seemed unlikely to make any  constructive contribution.
(125) The main thing was to interest the teaching  profession in the problem. Unesco had already  approved substantial subventions to a great many  international organizations in the field of education,  which could be commissioned to carry out the work.
(126) The Italian delegation thought one of the best  methods would be to organize competitions in the  different countries, wi'n prizes which would enable  the winners to write a-” publish works that would  be of great use to their colleagues. The necessary  funds for the prizes could be taken out of the  subventions already granted.
(127) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  failed to see what the Italian delegation expected to  achieve with its proposal. It seemed to him that the  original plan prepared by the Secretariat would  achieve the very aims that Italy desired to attain, for  a modest outlay. He had not grasped the reference  to competitions, for it was impossible for the Secre-  tariat to organize competitions or to award prizes  without budgetary implications.
(128) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) considered that the  Italian delegation's proposal was most interesting  and worthy of closer study, and accordingly asked  for it to be referred back to the Advisory Committee,
(129) Agreed.  The meeting rose at 1 p.m.  THIRTEENTH MEETING
26 November 1954 at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman : Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland)  ITEM 8.4.1 OF REVISED AGENDA : EDUCATION (continued)  Teaching of the Charter of the United Nations and the  Constitutions of the Specialized Agencies (document
(1) Mr. ANGELL (United States of America) wished  to submit an amendment to the resolution adopted at  the previous meeting, which he had discussed with  the delegate of Uruguay and which would enable his  delegation to support the resolution. He proposed  that the word "encourage" should be substituted for  the word "cause"; the Federal Government of the  United States of America had no control over the  school curriculum.
(2) Mrs. PINTO DE VIDAL (Uruguay) was very  - 343 -     pleased at the support that the United States of  America was giving her country in its great scheme.
(3) Mr. ARSENAULT (Canada) supported the amend-  ment proposed by the United States delegate. In his  country too the Federal Government had no control of  education, and he had been obliged to abstain from  voting on the resolution, in spite of the importance  which his Government attached to teaching about the  United Nations.
(4) The CHAIRMAN noted the Canadian and United  States delegations! approval of the resolution contained  in document 8C/DR/ 38, adopted at the previous  meeting, subject to that slight change in wording.
(5) He recalled that the Chairman of the Advisory  Committee had been asked to consider certain draft   IV-13 PROGRAMME AND  resolutions which that Committee had been unable to  study, its report having been drawn up before they  were received,
(6) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Chairman of the Advi-  sory Committee on Programme and Budget) said that  the Chairman's request concerning additional draft  resolufions would place the Advisory Committee in  an awkward situation. The only item remaining on  the Committee's agenda was the remodelled pro-  gramme, and it would be extremely difficult to  reopen discussion of the 1955-55 programme. He  proposed that any draft resolutions presented too  late to be discussed by the Advisory Committee  should be handled by the Commission.
(7) The CHAIRMAN saw no alternative to adopting  the suggestion just put forward by the Chairman of  the Advisory Committee, leaving it to delegations to  submit draft resolutions not included in the Com-  mittee's report during the meeting; he added,  however, that, where there were budgetary implica-  tions, such proposals could not be admitted; where  there were none they could be introduced orally in  the course of the discussion.
(8) Mr. HUZAYIN (Egypt) reminded the meeting that  the Conference had originally had two separate  Commissions, a Programme Commission and a  Budget Commission; they had been amalgamated into  a single Commission, the Programme and Budget  Commission, which, in his view, was competent to  deal with all such questions; it would be a pity to  deprive the central Commission of the Conference of  the right to take up any questions on which it had not  been possible to obtain the opinion of the Advisory  Committee.
(8) Mr. CALO (Italy) had genuinely believed that 1t  was in order for him to propose amendments which,  taken as a whole, far from entailing additional  expenditure, would result in savings on certain items.  The Italian delegation was ready to withdraw any  draft amendment or even to remain silent throughout  the discussion. Mr. Calo mentioned, in particular,  one amendment submitted by the Italian delegation at  the previous meeting which had recommended the  cancellation of two meetings planned by the  Secretariat. He ended by asking the Commission to  note that the Italian delegation was abandoning its  draft amendments, and that it was unnecessary to  take a vote.
(10) Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) was extremely  graceful to the delegate of Italy: it was not easy to  renounce projects on which much thought and effort  had been expended.
(11) The Commission was making rather slow  progress in its work and much time had been given  to the discussion of matters not directly related to  the programme. Unesco existed solely to execute  its programme, and that was the subject the  Commission should discuss. He pledged his full  co-operation, no matter how many extra or late  meetings might prove necessary.
(12) Mr. NIELSEN (Denmark) hoped that a more    BUDGET COMMISSION  satisfactory method of dealing with draft resolutio  could be found before the next General Conference,  With regard to the problem of proposals submitted  after the prescribed date, a distinction had to be  made between those suggesting changes in the  proposed programme and budget and those intro-  ducing new items. It would be correct for the  Commission to discuss the former, since all delega-  tions had the right to submit modifications: and it  would be helpful if they could be given to the  Secretariat in writing. The latter proposals must be  ruled out of order.
(13) The CHAIRMAN fel: that the best method the  Commission could adopt would be to consider only  those draft resolutions already examined by the  Advisory Committee, leaving delegations to submit  further proposals in the way suggested by the  delegate of Denmark. To allay the anxieties voiced  by the Egyptian delegate, he made it clear that the  Commission was still entirely free to discuss, accept  or reject proposals of any kind.
(14) The Egyptian delegate agreed to the proposed  procedure.  REPORT OF THE ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME  AND BUDGET (PART IV): EXAMINATION OF THE FINAL  REPORT OF THE EXPERT COMMITTEE ON EDUCATION FOR  INTERNATIONAL UNDERSTANDING AND CO-OPE RATION  (documents 8C/BUD/3 and 8C/DIV/80)
(15) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Chairman of the  Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget) said  that the Advisory Committee had examined the  proposals of the Expert Committee in the light of  their possible effect on Unesco's programme and  budget. As a result, the Advisory Committee had,  in document 8C,DIV/80, suggested modifications to  certain of its original recommendations to the  Programme and Budget Commission. He proposed  that discussion should, for the time being, be  limited to that part of the report.  (J) Textbooks and teaching materials (paragraphs
(16) Section (J) was approved.  (K) Teaching about the United Nations and human  rights (paragraphs 186-192)
(17) Mr. CASSANI (Argentina), referring to para-  graoh 190, said that it would seem advisable that  the documents which were to be published in French  and English to provide teachers with systematic  information about the United Nations and its  Specialized Agencies, should also be published in  Spanish, which was an official language of the  General Conference. In that way the work of trans-  lation would be shortened and teachers would receive  the documents with less delay.
(18) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education),  in reply to a question from the CHAIRMAN, said  that it would be a comparatively simple matter to   PROGRAMME AND  add Spanish to the two languages concerned. The  proposal, however, was not to print the documents,  but to supply them in stencilled form, leaving Mem-  ber State 5 to publish and print ir: quantity.
(19) Section K was adopted.  (L) Scheme of Co-ordinated experimental activities  in education for international understanding and co-  operation (paragraphs 193-196)
(20) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commission)  reminded the Commission that, according to the  report of the Advisory Committee (document 8C/BUD/
3), the report of the experts (docume... 8C/DIV/80)  appeared to place the work in the priority category,  whereas the Advisory Committee maintained its  previous decision, placing it in category 2.
(21) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Chairman of the Advi-  sory Committee on Programme and Budget) said that  the Expert Committee had requested high priority  for the activity. The Advisory Committee, on the  other hand, had approved the activity but made no  recommendation on priority.
(22) The CHAIRMAN remarked that it was permis-  sible for the Commission to reconsider the proposal,  which was not one of those to be considered only 1f  funds were available in the budget.
(23) Mr. BROWNELL (United States of America)  supported the views that had been expressed by the  Inrector-General and the Director of the Department  of Education at the previous meeting concerning the  school curriculum. Unesco must respect national  sovereignty on that question, and the Secretariat  should guard against appearing to impose a Unesco  doctrine. Unesco's ideas should be advocated  because they were sound, constructive and acceptable  but not imposed as a Unesco or government directive.
(24) Mr. ROBERTSON (United Kingdom) found the  paragraphs in question acceptable and referred to  experiments being conducted in English and Welsh  schools. Unfortunately, work was ! impered by lack  of films and illustrative material on other countries.  He urged delegates, instead of making speeches on  the importance of international understanding, to  direct their attention to the production of material in  their countries which would promote knowledge and  understanding in other nations.
(25) Mr. MORITO (Japan), who had been a Japanese  member of the Expert Committee, strongly supported  the project. Peaceful aims of mankind could not be  fostered by emancipation from illiteracy and diffusion  of technical knowledge and skills alone; nor did  fundamental education as such lay the foundations of  peace. It was essential to develop international  understanding and international co-operation in the  younger generation.
(26) In the case of Japan, for example, education  had been compulsory for half a century; but although  long before the war the rate of school attendance had  reached nearly one hundred per cent and illiteracy  had almost disappeared, the love of peace had not  - 345 -     BUDGET COMMISSION IV-13  increased proportionately. Education in interna-  tional understanding was therefore necessary as  much in countries with free compulsory education as  in underdeveloped countries.
(27) Educators were still seeking effective methods,  and the pilot project ouulined in the paragraphs under  discussion was precisely the kind of action required.  Moreover it was an excellent example of the co-  operation between Unesco and Member States which  was to be promoted in Unesco's tuture programmes.  Japan was participating in the scheme; four schools  had already been selected and the Government had  allocated $5, 000 for the current year. The people  concerned with the scheme, of whom he himself was  one, were looking for help and guidance from Unesco.
(28) He re-emphasized the importance of the project  and asked that it should be given the highest possible  priority in Unesco's programme.
(29) Section (L) was approved.
(30) The CHAIRMAN asked for a vote on resolution
1.211, subject to the amendments already made, and  in particular, to the addition of the following phrase:  ".. ..due regard being had to the cultural indi-  vidual ty of each country or territory".
(31) Mr. FAUBLAS (Hait:) mentioned that he had the  previous day submitted a proposal for an addition to  resolution 1. 211, asking the Director-General to  urge Member States to devote at least one-twentieth  of their annual budget to the promotion of free and  compulsory education.
(32) The delegate of Uruguay seconded that proposal.
(33) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  said that the original proposal mentioned no specific  proportion. Whether or not the Haitian delegate's  amendment were included, the resolution would have  no budgetary implications for Unesco.
(34) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) had a comment to  make on the wording of the resolution. He did not  think it fitting that Unesco should make recommenda-  tions of that sort to Member States; the  recommendation in question seemed to imply that  they did not set aside such a proportion of their  budget for education, whereas in fact most of them  devoted a very much higher percentage of their  resources to it.
(35) Mr. FAUBLAS (Haiti) did not agree with the  Lebanese delegate. Unesco had thought it right to  put forward suggestions about free education to its  Member States because it knew that such facilities  were not provided by them all; such general sugges-  tions might remain a dead letter, but, if States were  asked to devote not less than one-twentieth of their  resources to free education, Unesco would more  easily make an impression on them and help to solve  the important problem of free schooling.
(36) The CHAIRMAN asked for a vote on the amend-  ment proposed by the delegate of Haiti, seconded by  the delegate of Uruguay.   IV-13 PROGRAMME AND
(37) The proposal was rejected by 30 votes to 3,  with 15 abstentions.
(38) The amended text of resolution 1.211 was then  put to the vote, and 1t was adopted unanimously.
(39) Resolution 1.212 was also adopted unanimously.  (M) Technical aid to Member States for the develop-  ment of school education (paragraphs 197-213)
(40) Mgr MAROUN (Lebano: ) pointed out that  Unesco's work in that field was conducted at three  levels: the international level (annual IBE- Unesco  Conference); the regional level (regional conferences  and the national level, when Member States asked  Unesco for help. The emphasis in the programme  for 1955-56 was on the needs of Member States, and  Mgr Maroun was sorry that a practical form of  action which was certain to produce good results had  been placed under the "higher budgetary level", that  meant that the Organization would be unable to help  Member States unless, by an unexpected stroke of  luck, 1ts budget was :ncreased; Mgr Maroun did not  think such a policy was altogether worthy of Unesco.  Seeing that for once - with the agreement of the  United Kingdom delegation - a higher budget had been  approved, Mgr Maroun urged that the activity in  question, which was so important to Unesco, be trans-  ferred to the "present budgetary level".
(41) Mr. ANGELL (United States of America) said  that the project was one of the more important parts  of Unesco's programme, and one on which any addi-  tional funds might usefully be spent.
(42) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) proposed deletion of the  word "technical" in all paragraphs where it  appeared, not only in the interests of brevity and  economy, but because aid from Unesco should be  many-sided and not merely technical.
(43) The Director-General accepted the proposal.
(44) Mr. AL-KOUSSI (Egypt) proposed deleticn of the  words "higher level", in accordance with the views  expressed by many delegates and the Director-  General's statement that there was no difference  between projects at the higher and lower levels.
(45) The Director-General agreed to delete the  words wherever they appeared.
(46) Mr. HOUGHTON (Observer for the British  Caribbean Group) said that the wording of paragraph
209 implied that conferences had only been held in  the areas listed, which was not the case.
(47) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  proposed delciion of the words "that is" in the second  line of the paragraph and substitution of the words  “for example".
(49) Section (M) was approved.  - 346 -     BUDGET COMMISSION  (N) Assistance to national regional seminars on  school education for international understanding and  co-operation (paragraphs 214-216)
(50) Approved.
(51) Resolution 1.213 was adopted subject to  deletion of the word "technical".  Project 1.22: Emergency educational assistance  (A) Assistance to Palestine refugees (paragraphs
(52) Replying to a question from Mgr MAROUN  (Lebanon), who had asked at what stage in its work  the Commission could expect to do away with the  distinction between the higher budgetary level and  the normal budget, the CHAIRMAN recalled that at  had been agreed that there was no real differentiation  between the two budgetary levels.  (£3) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Chairman of the  Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget)  recalled that the Director-General had informed the  Committee of a request he had received from the  Director-General of UNRWA for three additicnal  staff members. The Committee had expressed  interest in the request and left the initiative to the  Director-General.
(54) Mr. SALIM (Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan)  sald that his country was extremely grateful to the  General Conference for the assistance it had voted  in the past for the Palestine refugees, who were  still suffering from poverty and disease. He aiso  thanked UNRWA and the members of the Unesco  Secretariat who had helped in the work. He regretted,  however, that Unesco's contribution to that project  for the next two years was to be reduced; the  increase in Unesco's budget and in the Organization's  responsibilities in the project, and the rising number  of children of school age, merited an increase rather  than a reduction.
(55) Had the report of the working party set up in  Jerusalem been distributed to Member States, they  would, he felt sure, have realized the urgent needs  and shortcomings of the programme. It was stated  in paragraph 226 that free education was now avail-  able for all; in fact, Unesco and UNRWA schools  housed only eight per cent of the refugee population.  Moreover, the UNRWA report showed that education  was often given in poor accommodation, with inade-  quate equipment and by untrained teachers. In  addition, the five per cent of primary school enrol-  ment which it was proposed under paragraph 230 to  admit to secondary schools was too low. He also  disagreed with the statement in paragraph 231 that it  Was easies for skilled or semi-skilled workers to  become economically independent than for holders of  secondary school diplomas. In Jordan no holder of  a secondary school diploma was unemployed.
(56) Any programme with which Unesco was  associated must be exemplary in practice and must  be carried out in accordance with Unesco's recom-  mendations and resolutions. He moved that the  budgetary allocation for 1953-54 be maintained and   PROGRAMME AND  that the increase of $45, 000 over the allocation  proposed for 1955-56 be used partly to cover the  $25,000 for the three additional posts already  referred to and partly to provide programme specia-  lists with the necessary materials and equipment.
(57) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Chairman of the  Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget)  pointed out that the Advisory Committee's approval  of the proposed three additional posts had been  conditional on the submission of a formal proposal  by the Director-General and on funds made available  by reductions 1n other parts of the programme.
(58) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) considered that the  nart of the programme in question was, for many  reasons, a true Unesco activity rather than one  carried out by Member States with Unesco's assis-  tance. Unesco had in fact taken the lead in 1948 in  helping the Palestine refugees and had renewed its  assistance in each succeeding year. After adding  his thanks to those of the delegate of Jordan, Mgr  Maroun pointed out to the Director-General that he  was the first to cut out of the programme an activity  designed to help refugees - a form of work to which  his predecessors had attributed great importance.  He urged the Director-General to reconsider once  more the request made by UNRWA and supported by  the delegate of Jordan.
(59) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that facilities  for schools had increased remarkably during the past  two years and aid was now being provided at the rate  of some millions of dollars annually. Because finan-  cial grants were being made by UNRWA and because  Unesco needed funds for other important work, it had  seemed wiser for Unesco to limit its assistance to  the most important posts. It had been understood  that UNRWA was agreeable to the arrangement pro-  posed in 8C/5, but now it appears that UNRWA  believes the implementation of the principle will  require Unesco to pay the salaries of additional  personnel. He had accordingly agreed to ask the  Conference whether it wished to vote additional funds  for that purpose.
(60) He was willing to support the delegate of  Jordan's proposal if the General Conference would  decide where the funds could be found; but he wished  to point out that one of the most likely places would  be under paragraph 230.
(61) Mr. KHADRA (Saudi-Arabia) wished to pay  tribute to Unesco, UNRWA and the people in the  field for the work being done to combat ignorance and  illiteracy among the refugees. He deeply regretted  that, in spite of the progress that was being made,  it had been decided to reduce the budgetary allocation.  For the following reasons, he proposed that it  should be increased.
(62) First, a great number of people formerly  possessing liquid assets had now come to the end of  their resources and were eligible for assistance.
(63) Secondly, the birth rate was high, and school  facilities should be expanded to meet it.
(64) Thirdly, Unesco's budget for 1955-56 was  larger than for 1953-54.
(65) He had been told that the Director-General's  - 347 -     BUDGET COMMISSION IV-13  original proposal had been to reduce the budgetary  allonation by one-half and that he had only modified  it as a result of strong representations from the  Director of UNRWA. He could not understand the  reasons for any reduction, and warmly supported  the delegate of Jordan's proposal for an increase.
(66) He asked whether the statement in paragraph
226 implied that every child of school age was now  receiving education. With regard to paragraph 230,  tne opportunities provided by the admission of 5 per  cent of primary school enrolment to secondary  schools, and the offer of university grants to 5 per  cent of refugees enrolled in secondary schools were  quite inadequate. He also questioned the trend  indicated in paragraph 231 and hoped that the impor-  tance of a balanced education would be borne in mind.
(67) In conclusion, he drew at.ention to the recent  changes in the technical assistarce policy of the  Foreign Operation Administration, which was now  giving financial assistance to universities and educa-  tional centres in underdeveloped areas, five million  dollars be:ng allocated to the American University  in Beirut. He proposed that the Director-General  should endeavour to negotiate agreements with the  Foreign Operation Administration or the American  University in Beirut for the provisior of fellowships  for the refugees.
(68) Following a question by the CHAIRMAN and an  explanation by the delegate of the Hashemite King-  dom of Jordan, it was agreed that the Director,  Department of Education should work out the  financial details and submit them to the Commission.
(69) Mr. PRATT (Australia) supported the project  and sympathized with the proposal of the delegate c:  Jordan, but asked whether a refusal by Uresco to  provide the funds would mean the suppression of the  activities, or whether the funds might be provided  by UNRWA.
(70) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that the  request from UNRWA would mean the addition of  three posts to the four referred to in paragraph 233  and the cessation of any cash contributions. The  cost of the three additional posts would amount to  aboul $27, 000 in 1955 and about $27, 500 in 1956.  With regard to the delegate of Australia's question,  the problem was one of principle rather than finance,  since, if UNRWA had to provide the money, it could  only do so by the curtailment of other educational  activities.
(71) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa-  tion) said that the delegate of Jordan's proposal to  restore the allocation to the 1953-54 level would  involve additional sums of $44, 060 in 1955 and  $43,095 in 1956, or a total amount of approximately  $ 87, 000 (including the three additional posts) over  and above the budgetary amount proposed for the
(72) Mr. SIDDIQI (Pakistan) supported tne proposal.
(73) The CHAIRMAN asked for vote on the  proposal of ‘he delegate cf Jordan, seconded  by the delegate of Saudi-Arabia.   IV-13 PROGRAMME AND
(74) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) recalled that the  Director-General had stated that Unesco and LNRWA  had agreed on the principle that UNRWA should fur-  nish all the necessary teaching materials, and  Unesco all the necessary staff.
(75) The proposal of the delegate of Jordan was  adopted by 29 votes to 7, with 17 abstentions.
(76) The CHAIRMAN explained that the figures being  fixed by the Commission were provisional, and that  they would need to be reconsidered, firstly at the end  of the examination of the chapter on Education, and,  secondly, when all the chapters of the programme  had been reviewed; a balance would have to be estab-  lished t ‘tween them before the Commission drew  up its report.  (B) £mergency education 'l assistance to Korea  (paragraphs 238-244)
(77) Mr. PAIK (Korea) was grateful for the work  being done by UNKRA, welcomed the resolution  authorizin, Unesco's collaboration, and noted that  Unesco was proposing to provide two field experts in
1955 and 1956, He wished, however, to see Unesco  taking a more active part in the emergency assis-  tance programme, and saw no reason why specific  projects should not be included in Unesco's regular  programme, provided there were no duplication of  work being done by other bodies in the same field.  The work was too extensive to be handled by a single  organization.
(78 He accordingly proposed that the Commission  should adopt a resolution authorizing the Director-  General to work out a Unesco programme for  educational assistance to Korea which would not  duplicate the work of other orgamzations active in  Korea.
(79) Mr. U TSUIN-CHEN (China) supported the  proposal.
(80) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that, since  Unesco was already co-operating with the agency set  up by the United Nations, the Korean delegate's  resolution appeared superfluous.
(81) Mr. PAIK (Korea) agreed to withdraw his  proposal.
(82) The Secretary of the Commission read resolu-  tions 1.221 and 1. 222, which were adopted.
(83) Mr. SOLODOVNIKOV (Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics) said that his delegation  wished a vote to be taken on resolution 1.222  because they intended to abstain as a means of  making their views known.
(84) The CHAIRMAN remarked that a fresh  vote would therefore have to be taken on reso-  lution 1.222.
(85) The result of the voting was 46 in favour, none  against with 6 abstentions,  - 348 -     BUDGET COMMISSION  Project 1.31: Fundamental ¢ lucation  (Paragraphs 247-267)
(86) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Chairman of the  Advisory Committee on Programme and Budge!  said that the Advisory Comnriittee had, at the sugges-  tion of the Director-General, reviewed Unesco's  activities in fundamental education as a whole. The  method * id proved highly successful and had given  the Committee a clear idea of the main projects and  their connexion with the work of the various depart-  ments. The Committee had noted with satisfaction  that fundamental education accounted for about  $2,000,000 or 13% of the programme activities, half  under the Department of Education and the remainder  under the Departments of Social Science, Cultural  Activities, Mass Communication and Exchange of  Persons.
(87) Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) said that the system  of Associated Projects was one of the most important  parts of Unesco's work. He had, however, two  comments to make on the paragraphs under discus-  sion. First, paragraph 256 contained no reference  to the great variety of languages. Secondly, with  regard to the recruitment of experts under paragraph
259, it was difficult to find experts capable of dealing  with many different kinds of project, and Unesco must  resist the temptation to employ an expert for several  projects merely because they were located in the  same region.
(88) Mr. HACQUAERT (Belgium) recalled that, at  the seventh session of the General Conference, the  Belgian delegation had drawn attention to the heavy  expenditure on the two regional centres at Patzcuaro  and Sirs-el-Layyan, and had expressed doubts about  the possibility of setting up other centres of the  same kind; he thought that the Belgian view had been  justified and considered that it would be reasonable  for Unesco in due course to cease financing the  centres, the cost of which should gradually be  assumed by the countries benefiting from their work.  The Executive Board had suggested setting up a  world centre, but the Director-General had said he  preferred national centres. The Belgian delegation  upheld the latter viewpoint, as it felt that there  would be insuperable psychological, linguistic and  financial obstacles to setting up a world centre. The  policy of encouraging countries which wished to  create centres to do so seemed, on the other hand,  calculated to spare offence to national feelings.
(89) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) said that, though he  might later return to the question of the cenires,  he would confine himself for the time being to the  wording of resolution 1.311} (paragraph 246); his  comments would also have a bearing on the following  paragraphs, down to paragraph 289. Fundamental  education covered an enormous field and he paid  tribute to the project which Unesco had so bravely  undertaken. While it was clearly Unesco's duty to  take action in that field, it should not be forgotten  that fundamental education had not been invented by  Unesco, but had been conducted and was still >eing  conducted by an army of men and women who were   PROGRA IME AND  quietly devoting themselves to the service of their  fellows. Missionaries of every faith, from every  country 1n Europe, had for long years been bringing  knowledge and education to the less civilized peoples;  Mgr Maroun noted with regret that the part they had  played was not even mentioned. Unesco could not  leave their work out of account, either in the Secre-  tariat or in the field and in the very wording of its  programme. Resolution 1.311, which, as it stood,  said nothing of such private work, would be improved  by the addition, (after "international organizations" -  second line) of the words "... and appropriate private  bodies in this field....".
(90) Mr. WIDDOWSON (Union of South Africa), re-  ferring to paragraphs 258 to 260 (Servicing Associated  Projects), stressed the importance of preliminary  consultation with the responsible authorities in areas  where Associated Projects were to be established,  before any budgetary provisions were made.
(91) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  said that 1t was axiomatic that the Director-General  did not invite an expert to make a study in any  Member State without prior consultation with the  competent authorities. In connexion with the teaching  of reading, for example, a conference had been held  in Nigeria, the participants coming from many  African territories and including Dr. Cook of the  Union of South Africa.
(92) In reply to a further question from the delegate  of the Union of South Africa, Mr. Elvin said that  consultation had not yet taken place 1n the unspecified  areas mentioned in paragraphs 258-260, but when  the draft programme had been approved, it would be  imtiated only after consultation with the Member  States concerned.
(93) Mr. KADYROV (Union of Soviet Socialst  Republics) said that his country's delegation had put  forward a resolution, on which he wished to make a  few comments.
(94) A study of cultural conditions in the twentieth  century showed that half the population of the world  was still shrouded in ignorance - a state of affairs  which was neither just nor humane
(95) The closest attention should be paid to work  connected with education; illiteracy should be wiped  out without creating social differences or introducing  discrimination with regard to religion or sex, and  that should be one of Unesco's funiamental tasks.
(96) The delegation of the Soviet Union held teaching  and education to be impossible unless based on a  knowledge of the national languages of the country  concerned and the provision of proper training for the  teaching staff.
(97) In Russia, there had been a great deal of  illiteracy until, with the triumph of the Revolution,  many peoples had had the opportunity of studying in  their own languages. In the USSR, teaching was  carried on in at least 60 different languages, through  a network of schools, institutes and academies for  the spread of knowledge.
(98) Unesco should develop its work along those  lires in all countries and publish textbooks  on fundamental education in order to wipe out  illiteracy.  - 349 -     BUDGET COMMISSION IV-13
(99) Mr. AL-KOUSSI (Egypt) supported the remarks  of the United Kingdom delegate on Associaied  Projects. Egypt was planning a number of projects,  including the training of rural teachers and establish-  ment of social centres, and looked forward to  receiving assistance from furdamental education  leaders. He therefore welcomed the inclusion of  paragraphs 258-260 in Unesco's programme, but  care should be taken that the projects to which  Unesco proposed giving assistance were true  fundamental education centres.
(100) Mr. ERZUAH (Gold Coast) said that fundamental  education was the only Unesco activity which reached  the masses. As stated in paragraph 253, it was still  in an experimental stage, and the experience in his  own country might be of value to the Commission,
(101) The three main features of the system adopted  in his country were these: the campaign was con-  ducted on a nation-wide basis; 1t was directed  towards a general improvement in the life of the  community, and it included voluntary effort.
(102) A preliminary step had been the setting up of  temporary rural training centres in the main regions  to provide the necessary staff. Mass literacy was  an important element since it was realized that  through literacy people became aware of the need  for social and economic improvement. Literacy was  thus not an end in itself but a means to achieving the  full benefits of living. It had also been realized that  the logical sequence was literacy in the vernacular,  followed by literacy in English as a gateway to the  knowledge and culture of the outside world.
(103) To achieve nationwide impact, the campaign  had been organized on a regional basis under com-  munity development officers, a method which had  been of great assistance in dealing with the diversity  of vernaculars and the particular local problems.  Bearing in mind the objective of improving standards  of living, atteniion was directed to providing not only  reading primers but also reading material on such  subjects as village sanitation, farming, child care  and nutrition. Vernacular newspapers were pub-  lished to keep people informed on matters outside  their own community, and 1t was hoped later to  provide leisure-time reading material. Activities  included training courses for local authority officials,  and plans were being made for a local government  publicity campaign by mass education teams to  encourage acceptance of the responsibilities attached  to rights in local self-government.
(104) An important feature was the voluntary worker,  coming from many walks in life and trained at the  rural training centre.
(105) Recalling the Director-General's reference to  the empirical nature of work in fundamental educa-  tion, the speaker would welcome information on the  experience of others.
(106) Mr. ESTELRICH (Spain) sympathized with the  views pu? forward by the delegate of Lebanon and  warmly supported his proposal. He also wished to  emphasize that in Latin America 12, 000 missionaries  were engaged on fundamental education work.
(107) The CHAIRMAN proposed the closure of  the discussion. The proposal of the delegate   IV-13 PROGRAMME AND  of Lebanon, seconded by the delegate of Spain, was  before the Commission.
(108) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa-  tion), replying to the delegate of the United Kingdom,  said that Unesco considered that an expert might be  useful in a number of associated projects, but did  not expect one person to be capable of handling all  the projects in a given region.
(109) In answer to the question by the delegate of  Belgium, while 1t was an accepted doctrine that  Member States should ultimately take over respon-  sibility for fundamental education centres, it was not  yet appropriate to do so in the two cases mentioned.
(110) With regard to the question raised by the  delegate of the Soviet Union, it was Unesco's policy  to see that the results of experiments in any country  were supplied to other Member States. Information  on the work of the cultural missions in Mexico had  been published by Unesco. He agreed with the Soviet  delegate's emphasis on the educational value of  teaching reading and writing initially in the spoken  languages. The idea conformed with Unesco's  educational doctrine, although there might be admini-  strative limitations in small areas with large  varieties of languages.
(111) In reply to the delegate of Lebanon, Unesco  was already in consultation with a number of private  organizations, whose experience in fundamental  education was valuable to the Organization. He asked
1f the following amendment to the resolution would  meet the case: the insertion of the words "and in  consultation with competent private organizations"  after "appropriate international organizations’. It  was essential to distinguish between association with  the United Nations and the Agencies and consultation  with private organizations, since association implied  Joint responsibility.
(112) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) emphasized, however,  that not only consultation but co-operation was needed  between Unesco and organizations which had been  dealing for many years with fundamental education.  He therefore wished the words ‘'in association with"  to apply to the appropriate private organizations as  well.
(113) Mr. ZAMORANO HERNANDEZ (Chile) sup-  ported the proposal of the Director of the Department  of Education; he considered consultation with private  organizations interested in fundamental education to  be important, but it was better tn do the actual work  of education through the competent government  departments.
(114) Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia) supported the  Lebanese delegate's proposal. In his own country  private missionary organizations had been working  on fundamental education long before any govern-  mental action was initiated, and their collaboration  was necessary to the work.
(115) The CHAIRMAN wondered whether a compro-  mise was possible between the proposals of the  Lebanese delegate and of the Secretariat. He sug-  gested the following wording: "...and in conjunction  with private organizations....".  BUDGET     COMMISSION
(116) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) confessed that the  shade of meaning introduced by the new form of  words eluded him.
(117) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that the currect  term in respect of private organizations was  "consultation". Use of the word "collaboration",  which implied participation in the management of a  project, could lead to serious legal difficulties with  other collaborating agencies.
(118) Mr. SANDOVAL VALLARTA (Mexico) referring  to what the Director-General had said, observed that  this country would oppose any form of collaboration  in the Patzcuaro Centre, not already covered by the  existing contracts.
(119) Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) supported the  statements of the Director-General and the delegate  of Lebanon. In United Kingdom territories a great  debt was owed to educators whose main driving force  was religion, whether Christian, Muslim, Hindu or  other denominations. With regard to the drafting  difficulty, since the voluntary organizations were all  working in collaboration with their respective govern-  ments, Unesco could collaborate with them through  the Member Governments concerned. The wording  "in relation with voluntary organizations' should  therefore be satisfactory.
(120) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that relationship  with private organizations was automatic and use of  the word in the resolution would only cause confusior.
(121) The CHAIRMAN said that the wording might be:  "....1n consultation with the appropriate private  organizations, ... ".
(122) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) recalled the work done  by non-governmental organizations in addition to that  of governmental organizations, adding that Unesco  was 1n a good position to appreciate it. To collaborate  with governments did not automatically mean colla-  borating with all the existin: organizations in a country
(123) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL proposed the wording  "and 1n consultation with competent international  non-governmental organizations and appropriate  private organizations".
(124) The delegate of Lebanon signified his approval.
(125) Before the vote as taker, Mr. FAUBLAS  (Hait1) stated that he was not in favour of formally  adopting a proposal which was tc be referred back to  the Secretariat for final drafting.
(126) The CHARMAN thought that a vote m:ght be  taken, since the Lebanese delegate had indicated his  agreemen* with the Director-General.
(127) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL proposed a further  slight modification, and the delegate of Lebanon said  that he would be satisfied to leave the final drafting  to the Secretariat.
(128) The amended resolution was put to the vote  - 350 -   PROGRAMME AND  and adopted by 4! votes to nil with 9  abstentions.  (A) Methods of teaching how to read and write  {paragraphs 268-270)
(129) Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) approved the  project, but considered it illogical to define a region  in terms of its political status. The wording of  paragraph 269 would exclude Liberia and possibly  other sovereign territories in Africa. He proposed  that the words "non-self-governing territories"  should be replaced by "Africa South of the Sahara”.
(130) Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia) seconded the pro-  posal, adding that he would not have taken exception  to the existing wording, because Liberia was already  receiving great benefits from Unesco's technical  assistance programme.
(131) Section (A) as amended, was approved.  (B) Evaluation of literacy campaigns (paragraphs
(132) Approved.  (C) The use of a language of wide communication  in relation to the use of vernacular languages in  fundamental education (paragraphs 274-279)
(133) Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) said that he had  heard with great interest the statement of the Soviet  delegate and was struck by the similarity of the  Soviet and United Kingdom policies on vernacular  languages. The number of languages in which the  Soviet Government was providing education was  impressive and exceeded the number in United  Kingdom territories. He had much ro learn from the  Soviet methods and looked forward to hearing of  developments in the future.
(134) Section (C) was approved.  (D) Joint field experiments (paragraphs 280 and 281)
(135) Approved.  (E) Field consultation (paragraphs 282-289)
(136) Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) said that, while  he found nothing objectionable in the aims of the  project, he saw a danger in the use of the word  urged" in paragraph 285. He had every sympathy  with the policy of paying more attention to the  interests of women but Unesco's rôle in Associated  Projects was to advise and not to control.
(137) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa-  tion) said that he had already explained his own  doubts over the wording to the Advisory Committee  on Programme and Budget. He would see that a  suitable alteration was made in the drafting of the  paragraph.  - 351 -     BUDGET COMMISSION IV-13
(138) Mr, SOLODOVNIKOV (Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics) wished to point out, with regard  to the teaching of vernacular languages in the USSR,  that he had said that 60 languages were taught, and  not so many as the delegate of the United Kingdom  seemed to have understood.
(139) Mr. PRATT (Australia) proposed deletion of  the word "compulsory" at the end of paragraph 283.
(141) Section (E) was approved.  (F) International fundamental education centres  (paragraphs 290-304)
(142) Mr. ORTIZ (Director, Regional Fundamental  Education Centre for Latin America) said that at  Patzcuaro teachers from all the Latin Amos ican  countries except Argentina and the Dominican  Republic had been undergoing training. He invited  those two countries, through their delegations at  the Conference, to take part in the work of the  Centre.
(143) Since the Centre had been set up, some 180  students had been trained. Careful attention “ad  been given to the methods and procedures of training  and constant progress had been made until the  existing form of organization was established.
(144) Training at the Centre lasted 18 months, with  one month's vacation. The training was divided  into three semesters, at the end of which students  submitted their theses and sat examinations.
(145) Certain fellowship holders who had taken  courses at Patzcuaro had already returned to their  countries (Peru, Bolivia, Ecuador, Honduras), and  were working in their respective communities,  while fellowship holders from other countries were  still undergoing training.
(146) Mr. SEDES (France) stated that the French  delegation had studied the section on Fundamental  Education Centres with special care and was of the  opinion that the logical course was to continue what  had been begun, even though the financial burden  imposed by the two Centres unfortunately prevented  Unesco from pursuing action elsewhere. With the  need for continuity of effort in mind the French  delegation supported the section, together with its  budgetary implications.
(147) Mr. CASSANI (Argentina) said that his dele-  gation supported all types of fundamental education,  but added that the problem did not arise in his  country. Nevertheless, if it were thought desirable,  Argentina would send students to the Patzcuaro  Centre.
(148) Mr. SANDOVAL VALLARTA (Mexico) wished  to putonrecordthat the Patzcuaro Centre was jointly  maintained, being supported by Unesco, the Organiza-  tion of American States and the Government of  Mexico, the latter contributed more than $50, 000 a year.   IV-13 PROGRAMME AND
(149) His delegation believed that technical assis-  tance should be combined with fundamental education,  in order to improve living standards.
(150) Mr. ZAMORANO HERNANDEZ (Chile) speaking  on behalf of his Government, expressed his gratitude  for the invitation for students from his country to  attend the Patzcuaro Centre; he believed that such  activities as had resulted in the establishment of the  Centre should be undertaken more often, for they  were conducive to international understanding.
(151) Mr. MARTINEZ COBO (Ecuador) said that the  Patzcuaro Centre was one of Unesco's r..ost useful  projects in Latin America. A generation of teachers  from Ecuador had been trained there and were  already teaching in their country,
(152) The delegation of Ecuador suggested that a  project for the establishment of a fundamental educa-  tion centre in the Andes region should be submitted  to the General Conference at its ninth session.
(153) Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) said that it was  desirable to have as much information as possible  on the Sirs-el-Layyan and Patzcuaro Centres, to  which such importance had been attached and to which  so much effort had beer devoted. He asked if the  Secretariat could prepare information on the activi-  ties of graduate students who had returned to their  own countries.
(154) Mr. ELVIN (Lirector, Department of Educa-  tion) replied that in the case of the Sirs-el-Layyan  Centre it was too early to furnish such information.  With regard to Patzcuaro, details were already  available and a statement would shortly be published  showing the influence of graduates in their respective  countries.
(155) Mrs. PJZCSON (Executive Board) said that the  Executive Board had approved paragraph 285 on the  understanding that it was concerned not with  furthering women's interests generally, but with  giving women a greater part in the promotion of  fundamental education. The Board had recognized  that women had more free time than men - who had  to earn their living; that there were now more  women than men in the world; and that women  suitably trained could start educating children in  their homes.
(156) The Executive Board looked upon fundamental  education centres as one of the foundations of  Unesco's work. It had devoted a considerable amount  of time to studying the Sirs-el-Layyan and Patzcuaro  Centres and, in view of the fact that students would  ultimately work for the benefit of their own countries,  had decided to recommend that in future efforts  should be made by the Member States concerned to  - 352 -     BUDGET COMMISSION  support their own students out of technical assis-  tance grants.
(157) With regard to the establishment of other  regional centres, experiment had shown that it was  impracticable in other areas of the world. owing to  cultural, linguistic and geographical barriers. ‘he  Board had therefore agreed to recommerd that only  national centres should be encouraged.
(158) Section (F) was approved.  (G) Aid to national fundamental education centres  (paragraphs 305-307)
(159) Dr. MUDALIAR (India) appreciated the  difficulties referred to by the representative of the  Executive Board and, in the circumstances, approved  the idea of national centres, which would be less  costly to Unesco. He urged, however, that national  centres should have the main features of, and be  given the same assistance as, the existing interna-  tional centres.
(160) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL assured the  delegate of India that his remarks would be borne  in mind,
(161) Section (7) was approved.  (H) Further contributions to the international funda-  mental education centres (paragraphs 308 and 309)
(162) Mr. PRATT {australia) asked whether the  contracts in paragraph 309 involved a large increase  in student maintenance costs. He felt that the time  had come for some of that expense to be met by the  countries from which students were drawn. The  contracts for the two years 1955 and 1956 amounted  to over $150, 000 and he would suggest that part of  that expenditure might be diverted from that item  and used elsewhere in the education programme.
(163) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that he had  submitted the item at the higher budgetary level  because he wished the present session of the Con-  ference to decide whether it was the appropriate  time to ask Member States to bear the cost of  maintaining their own students. The proposal under  the lower budgetary level was that, starting in 1955,  the maintenance of all new students should be paid  by Member States. The decision now before the  Commission was whether Member States should  assume the burden or whether it should continue to  be Unesco's responsibility.
(164) The reason for the larger amount in 1956 was  that that year would include the students already  there since 1955 and the newcomers in 1956.  The meeting rose at 7.10 p. m.