ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VI-4  FOURTH MEETING
3 November 1954 at 10 am.  Chairman : Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Australia)  ITEM 7.2 OF THE AGENDA: PRELIMINARY CONSIDERATION  OF THE DRAFT PROGRAMME AND BUDGET FOR 1933-36,  BEFORE THE OPENING OF THE SESSION (continued)
(1) The CHAIRMAN welcomed Sir Ronald Adam,  Chairman of the Executive Board, and the Director-  General.
(2) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that he intended  to attend meetings of the Advisory Committee when-  ever his presence was not required at the Executive  Board. The Advisory Committee, in the setting up  of which he had participated as a member of the  United States delegation, had an important part to  play in the activities of the Conference, and the Se-  cretcriat would give it full co-operation in perform-  ing its work,  {3) The Secretariat was trying to base its ideas on  the needs and possibilities of Member States. To  that end it was necessary to know the situation in  each country and tc have a more realistic and less  theoretical outlook. In fact it was hoped to make  Unesco more of a Specialized operating Agency with-  out lessening its guiding character - a difficult ba-  lance to achieve, The plans set out in the Propr sed  Programme and Budget for 1955-56 were not I" tend-  ed to be permanent: it might later on be found ne-  cessary in some cases to expand, or in others to  retract; it was for the delegates of Member States  to give instructions.
(4) He wished to pay tribute to the part played by  the Executive Board in the preparation of the new  programme, reflecting a trend which had started at  the Executive Board's session of November 1953  and been confirmed at the session in March/April
1954, in which the Board had considered the first  draft programme and budget.
(5) Much help and information had been guia “OM  discussions with member governments during visits  by the Director-General and members of the Execu-  tive Board, especially to countries in Latin America  and Asia.
(6) The General Conference was the occasion when  Member States expressed their wishes, and the Se-  cretariat was ready to give all possible assistance  in the discussions.
(7) The CHAIRMAN thanked the Director-General  and said that the Advisory Committee, with the help  of the Secretariat, would do everything possible to  ensure that its consideration of the programme was  of use to the Programme and Budget Commission,
(8) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman, Executive Board)  expressed his regret that no member of the Executive  - 657 -     Board had so far attended the Advisory Committee;  the member appointed in his place had not been able  to be present. He hoped that it would be possible for  a representative to attend f ‘ture discussions and said  that he himself would like to participate in the dis-  cussions on remodelling thz programme. He stressed  the importance of the Advisory Committee's work,
(9) The CHAIRMAN asked for the detailed discussion  of the programme and budget to be resumed.
1.2 Pre-school and school education  Project 1. 21: The development and improvement of  school systems and school teaching (continued)  Paragraphs 163-167
(10) Mr, ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  said that he had nothing to add to his statement at the  previous meeting. The Director-General considered  that, although there had been many suggest'ons on  subjects to be taught in schools, it was Unesco's res-  ponsibility to study the problem of the school curricu-  lum as a whole,
(11) The CHAIRMAN drew cttention to the Executive  Board's comment in paragraph 10 of document 8C/5  Add. 1.
(12) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) said that the  matter had been carefully considered by the National  Commission in his country, which was aware of the  difficulties described by Mr, Elvin, The United  Kingdom was, however, in a rather special position,  since the paragraph in question implied a degree of  State control of school curricula which was not the  practice in that country, An international Advisory  Committee on the School Curriculum would not, there-  fore, be as useful to the United Kingdom as it might  be to other countries,
(13) Considering the matter from the financial angle,  he wondered whether an international advisory com-  mittee was really necessary, since the school curri-  culum seemed to be a national rather than an inter-  national problem; alternatively, if it were really ne-  cessary, need it meet twice a year? In his view it  would be better for such a committee to meet once  a year and for $26, 530 to be saved.
(14) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  explained that Unesco had not the power to change the  school curricula of Member States; what was  envisaged was an interchange of experience and  practice in different countries, which would   Vi-4  surely be of interest to the United Kingdom,
(15) With regard to the number of meetings, there  was much work to be done, and studies for submis-  sion to the 1957 and 1958 international conferences  on public education would have to be prepared well  in advance. In his view it would be necessary for  the international advisory committee to meet twice,  in the first year at Isast.
(16) Mr, AVIDOR (Israel) pointed out that the Adv:-  sory Committee had already, under paragraph 141,  agreed to recommend the allocation of funds for a  study by the International Bureau of Education of  the school curriculum, and was now being asked,  under paragraph 166, to approve the setting up of  an international advisory committee on the same  subject,
(17) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education),  in reply, said that the International Bureau of Edu-  cation study would be based on the replies of govern-  ments to questioanaires, whereas the studies pro-  posed under paragraph 166 would be based on the  views of the teaching profession,
(18) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) still considered that there  would be duplication of work, since the international  advisory committee would also, no doubt, use  questionnaires,
(19) Mr, ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  said that both aspects of the problem - government  educational practice and the professional view - were  important and neither should be overlooked.
(20) Mr. LEE (United States of America) wished to  associate himself with the remarks of the United  Kingdom delegate. With regard to the questions  raised by the delegate of Icrael, he hoped that ise  would be made of the work done by the Education  Clearing House, since there had already been a  considerable amount of research on school curricula,
(21) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  assured Mr. iee that the resources of the Education  Clearing House would be at the disposal of the iater-  national advisory committee, It was true that much  work had Leen carried out on the curriculum problem,  and the committee would have to co-ordinate the re-  sults, While the problem had been given much atten-  tion in such countries as the United States of Amer1-  ca, in other countries, fcr example India, therewere  still difficult problems to be faced, and studies and  comparisons of national practice would be valuable,
122) The CHAIRMAN, speaking as the delegate of  Australia, asked Mr. Elvin whether he was satisfied  that the setting up of an international advisory com-  mittee was the most satisfactory method of dealing  with the problem. Since the question was to be con-  sidered on an international level at the Conference  on Public Education, he wondered whether it  might not be more useful at the presc-t stage  for the Secretariat to prepare the aecessary  material on the basis of information supplied by  the Naticnai Coinmissions or experts in Member  States,    ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET
(23) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  said that, while the Secretariat would not oppose any  suggestions made by members of the Advisory Com-  mittee or during the Conference, the international  advisory commutttee appeared so far to be the best  solution, Some National Commissions were ready  and able to make studies requested by the Director-  General or the Conference, but the same could nt  be said of all countries,
(24) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) proposed that  the funds allocated for a meeting in 1955 he deleted  from the programme and budget and that during that  year further studies should be made on the lines  suggested by the Australian delegate, with the help  of the National Commissions and the international  non-governmental organizations.
(25) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL drew attention to an  important point which had not yet been considered,  namely, that the international advisory committee  would, after one or two years! work, be able to ad-  vise individual countries on the most suitable educa-  tional systems. He instanced certain Asian and  Latin American countries which had provided educa-  tion unsuited to the careers available and wanted ad-  vice on reorganizing their educational systems to  suit the country's economic needs, advice which was  difficult to give, involving as it did such aspects as  effect on human character, If the international ad-  visory committee could have the participation of  leaders in curriculum-making, and experts to study  the needs of countries, and did not confine its in-  terests to the preparation of publications based on  special studies, it could become a world curriculum  adviser and help in the development of education  generally,
(26) The CHAIRMAN suggested that it might be logical  for the Advisory Committee to emerge from the Con-  ferences on Public Education. He asked for com-  ments on the Director -Ceneral's statement.
(27) Mr. LEE (United States af America) said that  he would need a more detailed statement before making  a decision. His interpretation of the word "curr1-  culum' was rather more restrictive than that of the  Director-General.
(28) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that the essence  of his rema-ks was contained in the second sentence  of paragraph 166, which said that the function of the  commi‘tee would be to advise the Director-General  as to the co-ordination of all Unesco activities bear-  ing on the school curriculum, whether at Headquar-  ters or through its experts in the field. Many parts  of Unesco's programme had a bearing on the school  curriculum, but, to keep the document short, it had  not seemed advisable to list them in detail. If the  Committee desired, further paragraphs could be  added.
(29) The CHAIRMAN asked whether the United King-  dom delegate wished to amend or withdraw his  proposal.
(30) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) replied that on  - 658 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET Vi-4  ‘he contrary the Director -General's words rein-  forced his views on the need for preparatory studies,  He therefore maintained his proposal, In reply toa  further question from the CHAIRMAN, he did not  think a large budgetary allocation would be recessary.
(31) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL found himself in a  difficult position in relation to the Advisory Commt-  tes and the Programme and Budget Commission, He  did not ca"vider that he could accept, at this stage,  chauges recommended by the Advisory Committee,  Member States not represented on the Committee  might show interest in certain projects in their ori-  ginal form, and he, for one, would prefer to await  the discussions of the Programme and Budget Com-  mission to consider changing his proposals.
(32) The CHAIRMAN said that the Director-General  had raised an important point. The Committee could  not expect the Director-General to agree to recom-  mendations which would preclude h.s submitting his  proposals to the Programme and Budget Commis-  sion. However, it was the task of the Committee to  submit to that Commission its views on the proposals  which were before it.
133) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) understood that  the Advisory Committee was competent to speak on  programme as well as on budget matters.  {34) The situation was clarified by the CHAIRMAN,  the DIRECTOR-GENERAL and Mr. SOMMERFELT  (Norway) to the effect that the Advisory Committee  on Prosramme and Budget could make recommenda-  tions but could not at the present stage bind the  Director -Genera! or prejudice his freedom of action  in relation to the Programine and Budget Commission
(35) The CHAIRMAN asked for comments on the  United Kingdom delegate's proposal, and the dele-  gates of Norway and the United States of America  expressed their support.
(36) It was agreed that the Rapporteur should record  approval of the United Kingdom delegate's proposal.
(37) Miss LAISE (United States of America) hoped  that the decision would not prevent the Commattee  from having the advice of the Director-General on  prograinme priorities and other important questions.
(38) The CHAIRMAN also hoped that the Director-  General would give advice to the Committee even if  he might not agree with ts final recommendations.
(39) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL assured the Com-  mittee that it would have the benefit of the Secre-  tariat's views,  Paragraphs 168-173: Improvement of school educa-  tion in certain fields
(40) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  said that the Director-General had sent copies of the  proposed programme and budget to the United Nations  and the Specialized Agencies; and the International  Labour Organization and the Food and Agriculture    Organization had both expressed interest in para-  graph 169 concerning a conference on vocational and  technical education in schools for the Arab States of  the Middle East, A joint meeting of representatives  of thase ocganizations had been held and provisional  plans made subject to agreement of the respeciive  governing bodies, The objectives of the conference  were to make the participating countries aware of the  importance of vocational and technical education in  furthering the interests of workers and the community;  of its place in the scheme of general education; of the  material needs and requirements of such education;  and of its co-ordination with the needs of employers  and in relation to national plans for economic develop-  ment,
(41) The CHAIRMAN asked whether the conception of  a tripartite conference would have budgetary reper-  cussions.
(42) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  said that the ILO representative had considered  Unesco's initial budgeting seriously inadequate, since  considerable funds would be needed for equipment.  He thought, therefore, that the budget estimate should  not be reduced, even though Unesco would be res-  ponsible only for a proportion of the total cost. In  reply to a question from the CHAIR MAN, he could  not at present say when a decision might be ~xpected  from ILO and FAO, as he did not know when their  governing bodies would next be meeting.
(43) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) asked whether  Member States in the areas concerned would contri-  bate to the cost of the conference.
(41) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  replied that Unesco would pay per diem allowances  fo: the duration of the conference, but not the cost of  travel,
(4 \ Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Programme  and Budget) explained that the budget estimates co-  verad thirty-five days' per diem for thirty partici-  pans.
(46) Paragraphs 168-173 were approved.  Paragraphs 174-175: Evaluation of national pilot  projects in school education
(47) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) said that the  National Commission in the United Kingdom consi-  dered that such projects were useful, but their value  depended on where they were carried out and by whom,  He asked what the Member States concerned would  contribute.
(48) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa-  tion) said that the contribution of Member States  would be in the form of participating in the work.
(49) Paragraphs 174 and 175 were approved.
(50) Mr. CABOUAT (France) in reply to the CHAIR-  MAN, who had opened paragraphs 176 to 196 to  general discussion, said that the French  - 659 -   Vi-4 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  delegation was specially interested in the develop-  ment of activities which were of particular value in  fostering international understanding and co-opera-  tion. He was glad to see that Unesco attached great  importance to those activities - a point which, inci-  dentally, emerged also from the comments of the  Secretary-General of the United Nations on the pro-  posed programme and budget of Unesco. Work for  the development of international understanding and  co-operation was concerned not only with the develop-  ment of the teaching of languages of wide communi-  cation, the improvement of textbooks and teaching  materials, teaching about the United Nations, and  the scheme of experimental activities, but also with  the activities listed under the higher budgetary level  and in other parts of the chapter dealing with the  Department of Education, Other projects designed  to achieve the same purpose appeared in the pro-  grammes of other departments,
(51) Because of the importance of that branch of  Unesco's work, Mr, Cabouat was surprised that the  administrative unit dealing with all those projects  had been abolished, There was, for instance, a  close connexion between the co-ordination of school  curricula and the production of reading materials for  people who had just learnt to read.
(52) He wondered what was the objec. of abolishing  a co-ordinating body which was already in existence  and had been responsible for administrative liaison  between the various activities concerned. He there-  fore asked the Director-General to state: (1) the  range of all the activities relating to the develop-  ment of international understanding and co-operation;  and (2) the measures he intended to take within the  Secretariat in order to secure the co-ordination of  all those activities,
(53) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  said that activities relating to international under-  standing or education for international understanding  were distributed throughout the programme and were  the basis of Unesco's work, and it was difficult to  define precisely which activities came within that  category and which did not. References could be  found throughout the programme and budget, and de-  tailed elaboration was unnecessary.
(54) Administrative and staffing arrangements were  largely the responsibility of the Director-General  and it was not always practicable to have separate’  staff or units to deal specifically with international  understanding. For example, under education, the  staff member concerned with improving textbooks  would automatically take account of international  understanding.
(55) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that the Advi-  sory Committee on Education for Living in a World  Community had made a recommendation on co-  ordination at its first session, but no action had  been taken as yet, since the matter needed careful  consideration and the Secretariat wished to have the  reactions of the Conference, The Committee was  at present holding its second session in Paris, and  was likely to make recommendations on the subject.  He understood unofficially that certain members  were in favour of a special committee being set up  under the Director-General's guidance to ensure    co-ordination of activities, an idea which he would  view favourably.
(56) The CHAIRMAN asked whether the Director-  General's remarks satisfied the French delegate,
(57) Mr, CABOUAT (France) welcomed Mr, Elvin's  explanations, He added that Unesco's very existence,  and all its activities, helped to promote international  co-operation and understanding. He was not asking  for a special section to be inserted in the Education  Chapter or for a special unit to be set up in the De-  partment. He was very glad, however, that the  Director-General intended to set up a co-ordinating  committee to take special charge of activities rela-  ting to the development of international understanding  and co-operation throughout the Organization.
(58) Mr. LEE (United States of America) said that  he too had been concerned at the lack of adequate  emphasis on education for international understand-  ing and with the necessity for achieving co-ordination,  It was a theme which should permeate the activities  of Unesco by virtue of its mandate, and he was not  entirely satisfied that that was the case.
(58) The CHAIRMAN asked for consideration of  paragraphs 176-178,  Paragraphs 176-178: Developing the teaching of  languages of wide communication
(60) Mr, SOMMERFELT (Norway) asked whether the  Secretariat had any special country in mind with which  to make a contract,
(61) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  said that, while it would not be proper to state names,  at least one country was known to have an institution  ready to collaborate in such work.
(62) The CHAIRMAN said that it would be inappro-  priate to ask for the information at the present time,  before the Executive Board had considered the matter.
(63) Paragraphs 176-178 were approved.  Paragraphs 179-185: Textbooks and teaching  materials
(64) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) thought that  better progress would be made by bilateral discus-  sions than by international conferences, In the  interests of budgetary economy he proposed sup-  pressing one of the suggested conferences,
(65) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  said that, considering the nature of the proposed con-  ferences, it would be difficult to decide which to  cancel,
(66) The CHAIRMAN suggested that it would be  better to retain the two conferences, but to defer  one to a later budgetary period,
(67) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) agreed with the  Chairman's suggestion and was supported by Mr.  - 660 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET Vi-4  AVIDOR (Israel). He asked for information on what  had been achieved in Asia, since, after several  years! study, little progress had been made in West-  ern Europe,
(68) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) asked which of the two  conferences it would be more convenient to hold.
(68) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  said that the project would be ruined if one confer-  ence were suppressed: the Committee must decide  whether or not it was a high priority project,
(10) Mr. LEE (United States of America) said that  there was already more work than could be done  within the limits of Unesco's budget, and suppres-  sion of a project did not reflect on its merits, U  priorities were being considered, he would favour  the conference which would promote the most speedy  understanding of the East by the West.
(11) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  said that there were eight participating countries  from Asia, namely: India, Israel, Japan, Nepal,  Pakistan, Ceylon, Iran and Iraq, and ten in the West,  namely: German Federal Republic, Belgium, Greece,  Canada, Sweden, Switzerland, Austria, United States  of Anerica, France, Norway,
(72) The CHAIRMAN said that the United Kingdom  proposal was supported by the Israeli and United  States deiegates and asked the Rapporteur to record  that the Committee recommended deferment of one  of the conferences,
(73) Mr. CABOUAT (Frarce) in his capacity as  Rapporteur, asked the delegate of the United King-  dom to say which of the two conferences he proposed  to cancel for the 1955-56 budgetary period.
(74) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) considered that  the Asian conference should be postponed, since  more work had been done in Europe.
(15) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) stated  that the Secretariat regarded the two proposed con-  ferences as interdependent, The idea was to make a  comparison between the two regions. If one of them  was simply dropped, the whole project would lose its  point, If Mr, Cowellts proposal were adopted, it  would no longer be possible to make a comprehensive  report to the General Conference at its ninth session.  It would be better to arrange for experts from both  regions to hold a single joint meeting. Fewer faci-  litles would be available and it would therefore pro-  duce less satisfactory results, but it would have the  advantage of enabling the desired comparison to be  made between East and West.
(76) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) said that he  would approve the Assistant Director-General's  suggestion, but asked whether it would involve any  financial saving. In reply to a remark from Mr.  ELVIN, he said that that was not the main consider -  ation, but it was always the duty of the Committee  to watch for ways of economizing.
(77) The CHAIRMAN said that the Committee was  obliged to consider financial aspects and to make  savings where possible with a view to increasing al-  locations for more important activities. In reply to  a question from Mr, ELVIN, there was no question  at the present time of cutting down ceiling expenditure,
(78) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) sunported the Assistant  Director-General's prr.,0sal, With regard to the  United Kingdom delegate's question on what had been  done in Asia, work was already in progress on the  improvement of textbooks in {ndia.
(79) Mr, CABOUAT (France) wished to add some-  thing to what the Indian delegate had said; there had  been several bilateral discussions between govern-  ments in Europe and extensive bilateral contacts  within the framework of the Council of Europe. The  French National Commission had done a great deal  of work on the development of international unders-  tanding and co-operation and it would be regrettable  if Unesco's appropriations for activities in that field  were reduced, The French delegation would support  the compromise proposal made by Mr. Maheu; it  would like either to have both conferences held or to  have one conference of experts, covering the whole  world, convened.
(80) A vote was taken on Mr, Cowell's proposal,  which was rejected by 7 votes to 4.  Paragraphs 186-192: Teaching about the United  Nations and Human Rights
(81) The CHAIRMAN drew attention to the remarks  of the Secretary-General of the United Nations set  out in document 8C/PRG/20,
(82) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) stressed the  need for more emphasis on national effort and des-  cribed an experiment in the form of a model Unesco  Conference which had been carried out by students  in his country. A particularly valuable aspect was  that students had had to impersonate representatives  of other countries, which was an aid to international  understanding,
(83) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  referred to paragraphs 214, 215 and 216 of the draft  programme and budget, in which it was proposed to  give assistance to six national seminars. Unesco  was planning to spend less on international seminars  and intended, for example, to finance one instead of  two for the World Federation of United Nations Asso-  ciations, while devoting more to the teaching of in-  ternational affairs through the International Associa-  tion of Universities.
(84) Paragraphs 186-192 were approved.  Paragraphs 193-196: Scheme of Co-ordinated Ex-  perimental Activities in Education for International  Understanding and Co-operation
(85) Approved.  - 661 -   VI-4 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON  Paragraphs 197-213: Technical aid to Member States,  for the development of school education
(86) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  said that, in meeting requests from Member States,  the Secretariat had favoured areas where the need  was most urgent. À list of priority subjects had been  drawn up and appeared in paragraph 208, The total  allocation of funds was large in order to meet ex-  pected requests. ’
(87) Mr. LEE (United States of America) suggested  that an additional criterion in deciding priorities  should be the encouragement of countries which al-  ready showed a positive approach to the problem,
(88) Mr. CABOUAT (France) thought that the pro-  posal for technical aid to Member States for the  development of school education was a new project  in the history of Unesco. In that connexion heagreed  with Mr, Lee's views,
(89) The CHAIRMAN said that the suggestion by the  representatives of the United States of America and  France was a good one.
(90) Mr. MANEU (Assistant Director-General) con-  firmed that the project for technical aid was a new  departure to which the Director-General attached  particular importance, Mr. Maheu drew attention  to the two criteria mentioned in paragraphs 207 and
208, and said that the Secretariat would observe a  third, which was not mentioned in the proposed pro-  gramme and budget document, namely, assurance  of success, Member States asking for aid from  Unesco must be doing work at the national level in  the field in question, work with clearly specified  aims; and at least some initial results must already  have been achieved, to serve as a basis for inter-  national aid.
(91) Mr. Maheu explained that the aid in question  would be supplied on much the same lines as tech-  nical assistance for economic development, but on  lines that would extend beycnd the economic sphere  to every aspect of social progress, They would in-  clude the despatch of experts, the award of fellow-  ships for the training of specialists, and the supply  of the equipment needed by the experts for training ,  national specialists,
(92) Two important points should be noted. Firstly,  the Executive Board would no doult be called on to  pronounce upon the requests sent in by Member  States. As the Board would thus be performing the  functions that TAB exercises in the programme of  technical assistance for economic development, it  would naturally be the final authority for taking de-  cisions on projects involving not only technical  questions, which came within the purview of the  Secretariat, but also political questions. Secondly,  there should be close contacts between the staff  responsible for supplying technical aid and the per-  manent services of the Secretariat, Experts had a  certain amount of freedom in their dealings with  governments but they should constantly benefit by  the experience acquired by the Secretariat, and  their services to Member States should be tied in  with the work of the permanent services and planned    PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  undertakings of the Organization. In the Director-  General's view, Unesco could not supply technical  aid efficiently unless it placed at the disposal of the  experts its own experience and the skills available  to it through its contacts with non-governmental and  other international organizations. Technical aid was  a natural extension of established services and  planned activities.
(93) The CHAIRMAN thanked the Assistant Director-  General and, in view of the large sums involved, asked  Mr. Rao to give an outline of budgetary procedure,
(94) In reply to a question from Mr, CABOUAT  (France), the ASSISTANT DIRECTOR-GENERAL  explained that the Organization could make service  contracts with competent non-governmental organiza-  tions. But it could not shift all its responsibilities  to them for carrying out agreements made with gov-  ernments,
(95) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Programme  and Budget) said that there were two types of expend-  iture: the cost of engaging experts and the cost of  equipment. In calculating the former, there were  many unknown factors, such as the country of origin,  or the number of dependents. It was also necessary  to conform to the technical assistance rules in en-  gaging experts; for example, on a mission for six  months or more, an expert was entitled to bring his  dependents at the Organization's expense provided  that they stayed with him for six months at least.  Experts were allowed an installation allowance, but  were not entitled to pension or medical benefits. The  average figure arrived at was set out in Annex VI,  page 254 of the programme and budget. Standard  figures had been used throughout the document and  every effort had been made to keep costs to a mini-  mum. Another factor was that the receiving country  had to bear certain expenses, such as local transport,  office and lodging. With regard to equipment, it should  in most cases not exceed 10% of the whole project.
(96) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) said, in connexion with  the various forms in which technical assistance was  provided, for example by experts, equipment or  fellowships, that there would, he hoped, be sufficient  elasticity to allow for adjustment of the proportions  to suit the needs of the countries concerned.
(97) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  said that in general there was that elasticity. Unesco  had tried to learn from past experience, Thus, in  the early stages, experts were sent to give advice,  and the country was left to follow the advice or not.  That practice was changed, and three methods were  indicated in paragraph 210: the assigning of a per-  manent expert to a region; the sending of an expert  for a specific piece of work; the provision of assist-  ance to Member States for setting up their own work-  shops or training courses.
(98) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Programme  and Budget) said that there was also the provision of  fellowships to implement technical aid in the ex-  change of persons programme, for which $60, 000 was  provided for 1955 and $140, 000 for 1956.  - 662 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VI-4
(99) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) asked whether,  in considering the rather costly but very important  item of technical assistance, it would be useful to  have a list of individual projects to facilitate consi-  deration in the event of the budgetary provision having  to be cut down,
(100) The CHAIRMAN asked if the Secretariat could  provide a list of the projects concerned.
(101) Mr, MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  mentioned that, in a document which would probably  be issued the following day, the Secretariat would  list all the technical aid projects, stating their scope  and cost. It would show how technical aid fitted in  with the planned undertakings and permanent servi-  ces of Unesco. The Committee might, if it wished,  attach that document to its report.  Paragraphs 214-216: Assistance to national regional  seminars on school education for international un-  derstanding and co-operation
(102) Approved.  Paragraphs 217-244: Project 1.22: Emergency  Educational Assistance
(103) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa-  tion) said that discussions had recently taken place  between the Director-General and the new Director-  General of UNRWA, and he was not fully informed  of the situation. In previous years Unesco's contri-  bution of $90, 000 had formed a very small propor-  tion of the total educational budget of UNRWA, and  it was now proposed to use it for the payment of  certain staff members of Unesco working in the field  under the responsibility of UNRWA, A requesi had  been made for three staff members in addition to the  existing four, and he felt that the correct action was  to report the request.
(104) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) re-  marked that the request put forward by the United  Nations Relief and Works Agency (UNRWA) raised a  question of quality rather than quantity. The Agencys  programme of educational assistance would exceed  $3,000, 000 in the current year and Unesco was in  charge of the technical side of this large-scale pro-  gramme, That was an excellent example of co-oper-  ation between two international organizations of dif-  ferent types.
(105) UNRWA had asked for all senior educational  officials to be supplied by Unesco. Unesco would  have to recruit, pay and second seven specialists  instead of the four mentioned in paragraphs 235.  Although he had no formal proposal on the matter  to submit at the moment, the Director-General was  anxious that, if budget cuts were made elsewhere,  an additional sum of $25, 000 should be released in
1955, and $26,000 in 1956, in order that the request    could be fully met. It was less a question of giving  a little more money than of tidying up the adminis-  trative position. Moreover, the money would re-  present an insiginificant sum compared with the  total of UNRWA's educational budget.
(106) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) asked whether  the request from the Director-General on UNRWA  would be presented to the Conference as a document;  whether the request had been approved by the govern-  ing body of UNRWA, on which governments were re-  presented; and whether the three new posts were  permanent or temporary.
(107) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  clarified three points: (1) in order not to put the  Director-General in an awkward position, the Direc-  tor-General of UNRWA had made his request orally.  If the Committee felt it was necessary, the Agency  could be asked to confirm its request officially in  writing; (2) the request had not been approved by a  governing body of UNRWA because there was no such  body; UNRWA had no Executive Board but an advisory  commission of four members, the Director-General  of UNRWA was directly responsible to the General  Assembly of the United Nations; (3) the proposed  posts were temporary becaus« the Agency itself was  temporary, being prolonged from year to year by the  United Nations General Assembly. They were, how-  ever, shown as "established" in the budget in accord-  ance with customary administrative terminology, but  the operation itself was temporary,
(108) The CHAIRMAN said that it would be difficult  for the question to be discussed by the Committee un-  less it were taken up by a member, as no formal  proposal had been submitted by the Director-General,  He suggested that the Committee take note of the in-  formation given by the Director-General and of his  statement that he would be interested in making a  formal proposal if funds were found available at a  later stage.
(109) It was so agreed,
(110) The CHAIRMAN proposed that paragraphs
238-244 and project 1, 31 should be postponed until  the next meeting.
(111) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  explained that the document dealing with project 1,31,  fundamental education, was not long but that all the  directors of departments had to help in drafting it.  It would be distributed during the afternoon meeting  and could be more usefully discussed at the meeting  to be held the next morning, when members had had  time to study it.
(112) The proposal was approved.  The meeting rose at 12.45 p.m.  - 663 -