Iv-18 PROGRAMME AND BULGE COMMISSION  EIGHTEENTH MEETING
10 November 1952 at 3,30 pom,  (hauman M. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland)
(1) The CHAIRMAN drew del!egates' attention to a  detail: 3f a question with budgetary implications  were referred to the Advisory Committee on Pro-  gramme and Budget, that Committee was not called  upon to re-examine it in ord: r to submit a fresh  project to the Commission for approval. The  Advisory Committee's work was already concluded  before the Commission began its meetings, thence-  forward its task was to co-operate with the  Director-General in working out proposals for  enabling the programme ans budget to be brought into  line with the appropriations voted by the Conference  It wouiy, however, take note of the Commission's  wishes.  * 4,3 OF REVISED AGENDA. SOCIAL SCIENCES  «> s. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social  +. x .es) said that she was grateful for the oppor-  tunity to introduce the Department's programme to  the Commission. The programme was divided into  two parts, Section I on general activities and Section  II on special activities. She drew attention to the  statistical activities, which were in a speclai  category, as they concerned every department of  Unesco. Section | aimed at developing international  machinery for the social sciences and Section Il  at helping to solve social problems of interrational  importance by applying social science.
(3) She would only speak on the trends of develop-  ment, pointing out Unesco's social science targets  and how far they had been realized.
(4) The resolutions under 3. 11 had as an objective  the creation of international machinery for promotion  of the social sciences. Unesco had to build from  scratch, itself creating practically all the unportant  soclal science associations, the international  bibliographies for social science, etc., and now a  firm foundation had been laid. In 1955-56 it was  proposed to extend the geographiczl coverage of all  the activities already established and at the same  time to concentrate on fewer projects.
(5) The major social science associations were  extending their activities to a greater number of  countries, which involved higher costs and had thus  necessitated a slight increase un subventions. It was  intended to set up a system of social science corres-  pondents in countries where there were too few  social scientists to form an association. In  addition, Unesco would help in arranging a  meeting of the International Economic Associa-  tion in Latin America and of the International  Sociological Association in the Mediterranean  next year.  - 386 -
(6) The Social Sciences Department made much use  of the associations in the execution of its pro-  gramme. This was particularly true of its  co-operation with the International Social Science  Councii, which was set up in 1952 on a provisional  basis but was now a fully developed vrgan, and  carried the double function of a mult:-disciplinary  union like ICSU and CIPSH as well as being an  advisory committee
(7) The same story of concentration on fewer acli-  vities, but of widened geographical coverage, could  be told about the Department's documentation  activities. The period 1955-56 should see a complete  set of bibliographies for all the chief disciplines in  the so 1al sciences, with the aid of the International  Committee for Social Science Documentation. Until
1954 work had been undertaken to cover the linguistic  areas, first, of the working languages of Unesco,  Spanish as well as cther European languages, next  Japanese, Hindu, Urdu, Thai and, in general, social  science production in Aslan countries. In 1955-56
1t was proposed to establish machinery for an equally  complete coverage of the production in Arabic and  . other languages of the M ddle East. The only major  linguistic area not systematically covered by the end  of 1956 would be the Slavonic area.
(8) Finally, a major activity for the promotion of  social] science was contained in resolution 3. 3, coa-  cerning the teaching of the social sciences. Again,  the work had begun some 4 years ago by laying the  foundations of a general, international fact-finding  survey of social science teaching as it actually was  at university level, and by having experts formulate  a set of general recommendations for ils improve-  ment and extension. In the current programme  period stress had been laid on regional activities,  thus making it possible to adapt the recommendations  to local needs and traditions. Consequently, 1t was  logical to shift the accent in 1955-56 to direct aid to  Member States. No fewer than 23 requests had been  received from Member States for missions to advise  on teaching reforms or to introduce teaching of new  disciplines. In the future more attention could be  directed towards the content of that teaching, curri-  cula, teaching aids, etc.
(9) Mrs. Myrdal concluded by saying that, although  an important first phase was being traversed in  building up a social science machinery, thitherto  non-existent at the international level, the task of  promoting social science was by no means com-  pleted. After the foundations had been laid it was,  however, logical to turn the work in the direction of  closer co-operation with Member States, who alone  could advance the social sciences to the point where  they ceased to be underdeveloped sciences.   PROGRAMME AND  Paragraphs 1-15  {10} The CHAIRMAN opened discussion on the  introduction to chapter 3.
(11) Mr. SEDES (France) explained the principles on  which his remarks would be based
(12) The French delegation considered the Depart-  ment of Social Sciences as the cornerstone of Unesco,  and believed that its rôle was:
(1) to extend scientific knowledge concerning man  in a given environment;
(2) to encourage Member States in esearch work,  and help the-a to train and make use of specialists
224 ** apply their knowledge,
(3) to keep Member States informed of research  methods and of results obtained.  ( ) Unesco's aim in he field af social sciences  snould be:
(1) to undermine social prejudice and break down  the barriers betweer different societies,
(2) to develop a close understanding between the  various human groups and give them a sense of each  other's worth,
(3) to bring genuine, scientific backing to the  educational activities of Member States.
(14) The French delegate added that the experience  of all those concerned with the social sciences was  sufficiently developed to ensure that thuse aims did  not remain purely academic, but led to definite  practical results,
(15) It was on those criteria that the French delega-  tion intended to base its examination of the  programme for the social sciences.
(16) Mr, VITO (Italy) appreciated the breadth of the  social science programme, saying that it not only  advanced the possibility of increasing interest in  social science in all countries but emphasized the  necessity of encouraging the exchange of results.
(17) The Italian delegation was glad to note that the  activities proposed by the Secretariat were concen-  trated on the main areas providing problems of  interest to social scientists. He suggested that  Unesco should study economic and social problems  and land reform frc.n the aspects of interest to  Unesco. Other aspects could be dealt with by other  organizations. The aspect of interest to Unesco was  how to organize community life and social relation-  ships better.
(18) Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom) said  that the social science co-operation body in the  United Kingdom had asked him to express theu  appreciation of the proposed programme.
(19) In his opinion, parts of the programme needed  clarification and others were overloaded or too  ambitious. He hoped that the International Social  Science Council would become more democratic  and that it could be used for the distribution of funds
(20) Mr. LI U YING (China) had no general remarks  to make, but intended to approach the question from  a methodological standpoint.
(21) It seemed to him essential to enquire further  into the problems raised by the social sciences - a  subject still in its infancy. Reviewing the very  - 337 -     BUDGET COMMISSION IV-18  diverse fields comprised by the social sciences, the  speaker advocated the development, side by side  with sociology, of an applied science which he would  call "sociotechnics'.
(22) Mr. LORENTZ (Poland) was pleased at the  references, in the first sentence of the preamble,  to the desire that the social sciences should aid  man's progress towards peace and better living  conditions and, later on, to the proposals for  studying problems of international understanding and  tensions.
(23) He wondered whether the latter projects, which  he regarded as of major importance, had been given  a high enough priority. Unesco's task was to smooth  the way for discussion and for the pooling of  experience between groups of mankind professing  different behefs. The Organization seemed, however,  to be directing its energy towards training specialists,  a task which he thought less urgent.
(24) He also thought the question of racial discrimi-  nation, dealt with in a draft resolution of the Indian  delegation, deserved special attention.
(25) The Folish delegate felt, moreover, that the  programme as u whole failed to express the need  for uriversal brotherhood in the way that might have  been expected of Unesco. The preamble to the  chapter on the social sciences referred to a certain  aumber of countries, but neither those of Eastern  Europe nor China figured among them.
(26) Among the important questions which Mr.  Lorentz thought might be usefuily discussed between  his own and other countries were women's cultural  and political rights, industrial progress, and land  reform While the programme was being examined.  hic delegation would stress the need to create a  common pool of knowledge and experience between  all ccuntries on those subjects.
(27) The Polish delegate hoped that, when working  out the 1957-58 programme, the Organization would  duly consider giving the various countries a larger  share in Unesco's work and that the obstacles to the  admission of certain States would disappear.
(28) Mr. WADIA (India) congratulated the Director  of the Department of Social Sciences on the excellent  work done by the Department.
(29) It was a common experience that exact sciences  attracted most attention because they could be  studied dispassicnately and because they furnished  the peoples of thé world with luxuries. The sccial  sciences were in their infancy, but dealt with the  living problems of humamity.
(30) The Indian delegation was closely interested in  the training of social scientists, in the clearing  house activities of Unesco, which would add to the  fund of knowledge on social science problems, in the  standardization of statistics, and in racial relations.  It was particularly interested 1n the International  Social Science Council.
(31) Mr. MORITO (Japan) explainea ..y the  Japanese delegation paid particular attention to  Unesco's activities in the field of social science. A  considerable number of factors causing or intensi-  fying international tensions were to be found in that  field. Studies, however, did not always promote   PROGKAMME AND 1V-18  peace{ul solutions of social problems. His delega-  tion was convinced that Unesco was the most  appropriate agency to tackle the complex problems  involved, and that its contribution would be very  great tf problems were approached with realism and  objectivity.
(32) The Japanese delegativn welcomed the well-  balanced concentration of the programme. It thought  that Unesco's activities should be directed towards  easing the tensions and conflicts arising from the  economic, Social and cultural life of each nation.  His delegation agreed to the selection of the problem  of race, the problem sf human rights, the problem  of migrants and the problem of the social impact  of industrialization as major subjects for the  programme.
(33) The problem of migrants might be regarded as  one of the cultural and social aspects of the problem  of population. The latter problem was ot more  concern to the United Nations than to Unesco, but he  thought that Unesco could collaborate in that work  on a much wider basis than merely by making a study  of the migrants! problem.
(34) His delegation stressed the importance of  regional and national activities In the spt ere of social  science. Many problems, such as minorities, could  hest be studied at the regional or national level For  that reason it suppuited the project for setting up a  research centre both in the southern part of Africa  and in South Asia and the projects concerning the  holding of symposia and the undertaking ot studies  in Africa, Asia and Latin America.
(35) His delegation hoped that the results of the study  of social problems and of measures for their peace-  ful solution would be widely disseminated in popular  form through the most effective media.
(36), Lastly, the Japanese delegation supported the  measures proposed for developing evaluation tech-  niques of programme activities.
(37) The CHAIRMAN asked delegates to pay collective  tribute to the labour involved in working out the  programme of tie Social Science Department, and in  their statements to keep strictly to the discussion of  its essential points.
(38) Mr IBANEZ-GOMEZ (Chile) associated  himself with the tribute paid to Mrs., Myrdal by the  Commission. He said that Chil2, which had only  very recently joined, Unesco, had always been  interested in the development of the social sciences,  and that his delegation was very satisfied with the  report presented by the Soc Sc nces Department.
(39) Social sciences were indispensable to the  knowledge of péoples and to the promotion of mutual  understanding. The study of social phenomena  fostered the brotherhood of man anu interdependence  between States.
(40) Chile made the study of the social sciences at  all educational levels compulsory. Its Faculty ot  Law was also a faculty of social sciences, and the  country had social science seminars and study  centres and special schools of sccial service.
(41) The free flow of information and publicatiuns  Should be intensified, and, in that respect, the work  which Unesco was carry.ng out through its Social  Science Bulletin was of great value. The Bulletin  - 388 -  BUDGET     COMMISSION  ‘vas not well envugh known and deserved a wider  circulation It was the most important publication  of its kind in the world.
(42) The Crilean delegation was interested in  em orraging studies in comparative law - one of the  needs of contemporary culture, The contradiction  between different legal systems and techniques was  an influence clouding understanding between peoples,  Legislative systems ne. «7 unifying to facilitate  international under standing Unesco should streng-  then its ties with the International Committee of  Comparative Law, which had its headquarters in  Paris and was an Organization of great value, with  ramifications throughout the world, and particularly  in Latin America,
(43) lastly, an indispensable condition for interna-  tional understanding was that international  organizations, Unesco, and the principles of human  rights should be made known to all circles in all  countries. An enquiry had just been carried out in  Chile on the occasion of the tenth anniversary of the  founding of the Umted Nations, The results of that  enqu.ry, in which various sections of public vpinion  had been sounded, were most discouraging, They  had shoan that there was great ignorance, even in  educated and university circles, ahout what interna-  tional organizations were, and, furthermore, that  people were scepiical and lacked faith in their  usefulness. Insufficient information about the  or ganizations which controlled the Life of the world  had su far been disseminated, and the little publicity  they had been given had drawn far more attention to  their failures than to their achievements. Unesco  should circulate more information on the subject in  all countries, paying particular attention to spread-  ing a knowledge of its own special aims and of  human rights.
(44) Mr FORSYTH (New Zealand) recogruzed and  appreciated the difficulties which faced the Depait-  ment of Social Sciences and the needs of the various  countries for social science. He thought tha: the  Departm nt had perhaps been tempted to expand too  rapidly. In his opinion il was desirable to limit the  number of projects and to follow a precise and clear  course of action.
(45) A vote was taken on the preamble to the Social  Sciences chapter, which sas approved.  Project 3.01: Social science co-operation offices »  (paragraphs 16-24)
(46) The CHAIRMAN rem:nded the Commission that  the Advisory Committee had made no comment on  those items.
(47) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) drew a.tention to the  Co-operation Office in Cairo, set up three years  previously, which, thanks to the help provided by the  Department of Socizl Sciences and to the zeal of the  social science officer ir: Cairo, hed already achieved  very satisfactory results.
(48) Whereas, previously, nothing had been done in  the field of social science, in the region, specialists  in the Middle East were beginning to meet, to make  contacts and to work together, but there still   PROGRAMME AND  remained much to do in a region of extreme  social complexity.
(49) The Lebanese delegate expressed à certain con-  cern, siice he understood that the Secretariat was  proposing to abolish the Cairo post and replace it by  a non-permanent mission which would be responsible  for carrying on the work already undertaken. He  thought that would be a grave mistake, as the work  begun in that region should not be interrupted. He  therefore urged that the post be kept in being.
(50) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of  Social Sciences) assured tne delegate of the Lebanun  that no change was proposed and the post would  remain. The social science officer would remain at  his headquarters, but would direct his activities  more specifically to countries of the region more  distant from Cairo.
(51) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) was satisfied with  Mrs. Myrdal's explanation.
(52) Paragraphs 16-24 were approved.  Section I  Prozect 3.11: Co-operation with international social  science UI galilzations and institutions
(53) Baron van der STRATEN WAILLET (Belgium)  remarked that, in allocating subventions, Unesco  apparently tended to favour organizations set up  under its auspices. For example, the International  Social Science Council and the International Com-  mittee for Social Sciences Documentation were to  have their subventions increased respectively from  $15,000 to $18,000 and from $3, 000 to $9, GOO,  whereas the maximum increase granted to the  various international social science associations  was $1,00u.
(54) The Belgian delegate proposed that each of the  associations dealt with 1p paragraphs 35, 37 and 39  should have its subvention increased from $7,500 to  $8, 500 for each year, that the International Com-  mittee of Comparative Law (paragraph 41) should  receive $ 7, 000 in place of $6, 000 for each year, ard  that the International Union of Scientific Psychology  (paragraph 43) should hae its subvention raised from  $4,500 to $5,000 a ycar.
(55) As the Austrian delegate was not present, Raron  van der Straten Waillet thought he should speak on  behalf of the 'nternational Society of Criminology, a  most deserving institution which would find itself in  difficulties without the subvention of $1, 000 :t had  received under the previous hudget. The Belgian  delegation supported the request of the Austrian  delegation for the restoration of that subvention.
(36) Baron van der Straten Wallet tnought the  figures given for contracts reasonably satisfactory,  but he considered that the system of contracts should  be made more flexible and that provision should be  made for:
(1) arrangements enabling awards to be made for  good work carried out by associations on their own  initiative,
(2) an amendment to the clause dealing with the  evaluation of hours of work for purposes of payment,  - 389 -     BUDGET COMMISSION IV-18  the only form of payment suitable for scientific  work was an agreed sum;
(3) greater flexibility in the clause dealing with  dates of payment, associations which provided  guarantees should be able to obtain advances,
(4) an option for authors to take back their  manuscripts if not published, without being obliged  to buy them back.
(57) The Belgian delegate added that he intended no  criticism of the financial departments of the  Secretariat.
(58) He asked the Commission to consider the possi-  bility of submitting a resolution to the Adininistrative  Commission along the lines he had just mentioned.
(59) The CHAIRMAN puiuted out that the provisional  budget ceiling had already been fixed and that, wh:le  the Cominisston was tree to tahe any decisions 1t  wished, 1t did not appear to be aware of the danger  of swelling the estimated figure by proposing  continual increases.  (ou) Mr. ZAMORANO HERNANDEZ (Chile) said  that his delegation was not given to ashing systema-  tically for budget increases. He felt it incumbent  upon him, however, to support the Belgian deleva-  tion's request that the subvention which had been  granted in previous years to the International Society  of Criminclogy, be restored to the budget The  Society had carried out work of the greatest value,  criminology was a very Important science concerned  with the study of conditions responsible for anti-  social behaviour. It was strange that the subvention  which the Society had been receiving from Unesco,  and which it should continue to receive, had been  withdrawn.
(61) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the resolution  submitted by the Austrian delegation (document
8C/DR/13) would come up for discussion at the end  of the chapter on Social Sciences.
(62) Mr. VITO (italy) accepted the principle of the  two resolutions under discussion (3.111 and 3.112).
(63) With regard to the statement in paragraph 29  that the development of social sciences at the  national level was the responsibility of Member  States, as was the establishment of social science  committees within the framework of National Coni-  missions, he recommended that Unesco associate  itself with those committees. He stressed the  impo-tance of se*ting up national research councils  where they did not already exist.
(64) He considercd that the International Sotial  Science Council should have as large a membership  of different countries as possinle. To that end, he  recommended that the mernbership of its Executive  Council should be increased in order to ensure a  wider participation of countries.
(65) Mr. BRANDAO CAVALCANTI (Brazil) seconded  the proposal of the Italian delegate. He mentioned  that his country had jst set up a National Social  Science Council and hoced that aid would be forth-  coming for its development.
(66) Paragraphs 31-33 were approved.
(67) Mr. SEDES (France) supported the Belgian  delegate's proposal to increase the sums provided  for in paragraphs 35, 37, 39, 4! and 43. He added,  however, that he would propose reduct.ons in certain  items of the programme which wouid come up for  discussion later.
(68) The CHAIRMAN puc the proposal of the Belgian  delegate concerning paragraph 35 to the vote.
(69) Approved by 11 votes to 3, with 17 abstentions.
(70) The CHAIRMAN asked for a vote on the Belgian  delegate's proposal concerning paragraph 37.
(71) In addition to the French delegate, the delegates  of Brazil and Chile supported the proposal.
(72) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) reminded the Com-  mission that, at the Conterence of International  Non-Governmental Organizaticns, all the  organizations had been asked to try to make contact  with those countries where there were no national  committees. The Lebanese delegate wondered  shether the Belgian delegate's proposal was likely  to promote such action.
(73) The CHAIRMAN stated that the Director-General  had urged noa-governmental organizations to request  grants in the form of contrac!s rather than of  subventions.
(74) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences) pointed out that there had already been an  increase of $1, 000 per year in the subventions to  social science associations. That increase had been  made 1n order to help cover the increased travel  expenses envisaged for expansion of geographical  coverage.
(75) Mr. ANGELL (United States of America) found  himself in a difficult position on the question of  subventions. In his opinion, an element of  irresponsibility was involved in raising the proposed  subventions. The United States delegation would be  consistent and oppose any such increase. He had  heard no argument given wh:ch would justify it
(76) Baron van der STRATEN WAILLET (Belgium)  appreciated the disinterested attitude of the United  States delegation. He wished to make 1t clear that  the object of the Belgian delegation's proposal was to  redress the balance between the "free" associations,  on the one hand, and the committees set up under the  auspices of Unesco, on the other, so as to ensure  that the latter did not oust the former.
(77) He withdrew his proposal in respect of paragraph
(78) Mr. PRATT (Australia), while sympa-  thetic towards the work of the Association,  was opposed to the granting of small subven-  tions. In his opinion it would be more  appropriate to leave the subvention total as  it stood and to undertake work through the  Association by means of contracts.  - 390 -     BUDGET COMMISLION
(79) The Commission adopted paragraphs 36 and
37 without amendment.  Paragraphs 38 and 39
(80) Mr. GANON (International Sociological  Association) said that the Director-General's report  on the subventions granted to international non-  governmental organizations, including the  International Sociological Association, showed that  the subventions were in the nature of contracts, Le,  that the organization receiving the subvention was  carrying out work which Unesco could not perform,  or could not do so well or so economically.
(81) A study of the programme showed that the  natural sciences had been granted several thousand  dollars more than the social sciences. Research in  the natural sciences was cos'ly, but research in ihe  social sciences was also far from cheap. The  International Sociological Association had done all
1t could to pay its own expenses. As it had not the  right to vote, 1t would be unabie to register its  support of the Belgian delegation's proposal, with  which it was, however, in complete agreement.
(82) The Director-General's report also made 1t  clear that, for an association to be considered  international, two conditions had to be fulfilled: that  it work on a worldwide scale, and that its member-  ship be international. It was not sufficient for it to  cover one continent, Europe, America, etc. The  allocation of subventions to date had not taken those  considerations into account.
(83) The sociological meetings for which subveriions  had been granted had all been held in Europe, and  had been altended almost exclusively by Europeans.  The social psychology and cultural anthropology  surveys had taken in only one Latin American country,  Mexico. The whole question was dealt with in docu-  ment 8C/ADM/20, Annex XXVI. He was not asking  that any subventions be withdrawn, but that account  be taken of the merits of the International Sociological  Association in the work of developing the social  sciences.
(84) Mr. FORSYTH (New Zealand) considered that  the topic for discussion by the Third World Congress  of Sociology was unrealistic unless precise terms of  reference were decided beforehand. Time was  wasted during conferences unless they were planned  along specific and narrowly defined lines.
(85) The proposal of the delegate of Belgium con-  cerning paragraph 39 was supported by the delegates  of France and Uruguay.
(86) Mr. ANGELL (United States of America)  thought that some confusion had arisen as a r2sult  of his last intervention. He considered that all  organizations should be treated alike.
(87) He asked whether the Commission had decided  tu leave the subvention to the International Economic  Association as it appeared in paragraph 35. If not,  he proposed that the Commission should do so for  the reason that all organizations should be treated  alike.
(87) He asked whether the Commission had decided  to leave the subvention to the International Economic   PROGRAMME AND  Association as it appeared in paragraph 35. If not,  Le proposed that the Commission should do so for the  reason that all organizations should be treated alike.
(88) The CHAIRMAN proposed that in the interests  of consistency - and therefore of fairness - the  Commission should take a decision on the advisability  of increasing the sums mentioned in paragraphs 34-
45, as a whole, without going into them again in  detail.
(89) Mr. AWAD (Egypt) pointed out that the budget  figures as proposed in the draft programme resulted  from careful study by the Secretariat, which had  consulted the organizations concerned. He was of  the opinion that the Commission did not possess the  means of judging the crganizations without a more  detailed study and Le doubted the wisdom of trying  to modify the figures. He agreed with the delegate  of the United States of America that the proposed  amounts should remain as they were.
(50) Mr. SEDES (France) was willing tc take account  of the comments made by the delegates c the  United States of America, Australia and Egypt, pro-  vided that the Director of the Department of Social  Sciences could assure him that the proposed  subventions would enable the associations to continue  their work and form rational branches.
(91) Mr. ARSENAULT (Canada) said that his delega-  tion agreed with the delegates of the United States of  America, Australia and Egypt.
(92) Mr. WADIA (India) supported the opinion of the  delegate of the United States of America, The  temptation to vote an increase in the subventions was  natural but he felt that, 1f a delegate proposed an  increase, he might equally well propose cuts  elsewhere in the programme.
(93) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of  Social Sciences) explained that all the organizations  to which it was proposed to give subventions had been  crealed by Unesco and were equally close to Unesco's  heart.
(94) In answer to the delegate of New Zealand  concerning precise topics fur discussion at con-  ferences, sne explained that the theme was "New  research on how social change affects social  institutions such as the family". Plans had been  made by ISA for working papers on very precise  points.
(35) The increase in subventions proposed in para-  graphs 44 and 45 did not really constitute increased  payments by Unesco, but included as a subvention  certain sums which had been included unde. *  heading of contracts in earlier periods.
(96) The Secretariat had carefully studied and  weighed the subventions to be granted to orgamza-  tions. Those organizations could, of course, use  larger subventions, but were glad to ac cept the scale  of subventions proposed as an expression of the  fair judgment of the Director-General. All  subven.ions had been approved by the Executive  Board and the Advisory Committee on Pro-  gramme and Budget.  - 391 -     BUDGET COMMISSION IV-18
(97) Paragraphs 34-45 were approved by 37 votes  to 4, with 2 abstentions,  International Statistical Institute (paragraphs 46-50)
(98) In reply to a question from the delegate of the  Federal Republic of Germany why there had been  an Increase In the subvention to the International  Statistical Insuitute, Mrs. MYRDAL (Director,  Department of Social Sciences) cxplained that  formerly a sum of $9, 000 had been given tn the  Institute in the form of a contract to supply \nterna-  tional staff. That activ.ty was now called a  subvention and represented the same sum of money  as before.  Unesco Institute for Social Sciences, Cologne  (raragraphs 51 and 52)
(99) Approved.  Staff travel (paragraphs 53 and 54)
(100) Approved.
(101) The CHAIRMAN asked the Commission to  consider the draft resolution concerning the  International Society cf Cruminology (document
8C/DR/13), submittec by the Austrian, and seconded  by the Belgian, deleg:tion.
(102) Mr. CABOUAT (Rapporteur, Advisory  Committee on Programme and Budget) said that the  Advisory Committee Lad not felt able to recommend  that the proposal be aiopted, as the Society's  activities were not clisely enough related to those  of Unesco.
(103) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) said that the  Executive Board had .riven the proposal very care-  ful consideration but, 1n the interests of concentration  of resources, had been unable to recommend its  adoption by the General Conference. ’
(104) Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom) asked  if the International Social Science Council was  consulted on an application of that kind. In his  opinion, some body should assist Unesco to reach  a decision on such matters.
(105) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of  Social Sciences) said that the International Council  was consulted on the proposed programme as a  whole. That request for a subvention had been  received by the Secretariat much too late to  be submitted to the Council. Unesco had  co-operated with the International Society of  Criminology and had in 1953-54 given it a  small subvention to be used for work on  teaching of criminology.
(106) Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom)  proposed that consideration of document
8C/DR/13 should be postponed until the ninth  session of the General Conference in order  that the opinion of the International Social  Science Council could be obtained.   IV-18 PROGRAUME AND
(107) The United Kingdom proposal was supported  by several delegates.
(108) Mr. VITO (Italy), speaking not only as a dele-  gate but as a member of the International Soci!  Science Council, pointed out that the Council tad not  been intended as a body to control Unesco subventions.  The Council was not consuited on administrative  problems but only on social science ones,
(109) Mr. AFTALION (Argentina) said that document
8C/ADM/20 gave an account of the work of the  International Society of Criminology and its  financial resources. The information given showed  that the Society was reliable and that its activities  met real needs. It was constantly engaged in  international work connected with the study of the  serious problem of crime, and it therefore seemed  clear that Unesco should continue to take an interest  in ats efforts.
(110) It could also be seen from the ahove-mentioned  document that the subvention to the Society was one  of the smallest in Unesco'r budget. It was unjustified  from all points of view to cancel a subvention of  $1,000 to an eminent and useful body. The Argen-  tine delegation would support the maintenance, at  least, of that sum in the budget. Anything less would  show failure to recognize work of world-wide  interest
(111) The CHAIRMAN asked the delegate of Belgium  the amount of the subvention granted to the Interna-  tional Society of Criminology.
(112) Baron van der STRATEN WAILLET (Belgium)  confirmed that the subvention was $1, 000.
(113) In answer to the delegate of the United States  of America, who asked if he was correct in  believing that work on criminology was more closely  associated with the Social Affairs Department of  the United Nations than with Unesco, Mrs. MYRDAL  (Director, Department of Social Sciences) replied  in the affirmative and added that the Secretary-  General of the United Nations had asked to be  consulted on any proposed subvention in that field.
(114) Unesco was, however, interested in the  teaching of criminology and had intended giving  contracts to certain organizations representing dis-  ciplines such as criminology to undertake work on  teaching.
(115) The International Society of Criminology was  doing very valuable work. It had certain resources  of its own. It had been proposed, in the interests of  concentration of the programme, not to give it a  subvention.
(116) Mr. ROMANO MUNOZ (Mexico) also  expressed surprise that the subvention to the  International Society of Criminology had been with-  drawn. The new contributions made by psychology  to the study of crime and of its penal consequences  had completely transformed penology. No advance  in penal legislation was possible without sound  preliminary studies in criminology. Studies of that  kind were carried out very seriously in Mexico,  and a number of eminent men of international repute  BUDGET COMMISSION  had come to the fore. The foremost penal experts  in Mexico were at the moment devoting their  attention to criminology.
(117) It was strange that such a small subvention  to so important a scientific body had been deleted  from the budget. It would be very regrettable if  Unesco, which had taken a leading part in the study  of the social sciences, were to neglect a fundamental  subject which had transformed the classical concept  of delinquency.
(118) The Mexican representative appealed to the  Commission to maintain the subvention.
(119) Mr. VITO (Italy), raising a point of order,  explained that he did not object to the proposal of the  United Kingdom delegate to postpone consideration  of document 8C/DR/ 13 until the ninth session of the  General Conference, but with the reservation that  the Secretariat should prepare a paper containing  information concerning the work of the International  Society of Criminology in the meantime.
(120) Mr. BERGSTRAESSER (German Federal  Republic) could not see what criteria had been used  to grant a subvention to the International Society of  Criminology. The income of the Society amounted  to $40, 000 and the withdrawal of a contribution of
81,000 by Unesco was unlikely to diminish the  Society's efforts.
(121) Secondly, referring to document 8C/ADM, 20,  he suggested that, in the future, an evaluation should  be added to the reports of affil:ated asscciations,  based on the reports from those associalions or on  the experience of the Secretariat. Such evaluations  would be of great assistance to members of the  Commission for voting purposes.
(122) The CHAIRMAN considered that 1! would be a  dangerous thing fur the Secretariat to be asked to  give the organizations good conduct marks. It should  provide general information, leaving Member States  at liberty to obtain further details.
(123) Mr. AWAD (Egypt) hoped that subventions of  $1,000 would not be reintroduced int fuiture  programmes. Unesco was right in concentrating on  major disciplines. He thought that the Commission  should not alter the figures proposed by the  Secretariat for the period 1955-56.
(124) Mr. SEDES (France) had feit inclired to agree  with the United Kingdom delegate. After hearing  the explanations given by Mrs. Myrdal, however,  and knowing how uss£'ul the help of such a body might  be to Unesco in its educational work, he was in  favour of restoring the subvention.
(125) Sir Charles WEBSTER (Umted Kingdom),  raising a pcint of order, pointed out that the  United Kingdom proposal was an amendment to  document 8C/DR/13. He accepted the amendment  which had been proposed to his amendment, and  moved that consideration of document 8C/DR/13  should be deferred.
(126) The CHAIRMAN called for a vote on the  resolution contained in document 8C/DR/14, with    - 392 -   PROGRAMME AND  the amendment proposed by the United Kingdom  delcgate.
(127) Approved by 30 votes to 10, with 3 abstentions.
(128) The CHAIRMAN then submitted to the Commis-  sion the following draft resolution, submitted by the  Belgian delegation:  "The Programme and Budget Commission,  Considering that the present rigidity of the  contract system frequently inhibits the work of non-  governmental organizations,  Requests the Administrative Commission to re-  examine the system of contracts, with a view to:
1. Enabling awards to be made for studies or  other work of outstanding merit contributing to the  achievement of Unesco's aims,
2. Making the contract system, and methods of  financial control, more flexible".
(129) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Programme  and Budget) welcomed the opportunity given him by  the delegate of Belgium to explain the Secretariat's  method of allocating subventions.
(130) The Secretariat considered subventions as  sums of money granted for carrying out a programiae  project. As a form of aid, the method was flexible,  with no hard-and -fast rules or conditions.
(131) With regard to the question of making advance  payments, a satisfactory system had been established  which was outlined in document 8C/ADM/5 Advances  were made only when necessary but there was nothing  to prevent the Director-General from making them.
(132) Questions of the waiving of copyright were dealt  with through the Publications Board. Copyright was  waived when :t was thought useful to do sn.
(133) He concluded by wondering whether the Belgian  delegate would reconsider his position 1f the Director-  General gave the Commission an assurance of  flexibility and undertook to act in the new financial  period in the light of the discussion which had taken  place.
(134) Baron van der STRATEN WAILLET (Belgium)  was prepared to withdraw his draft resolution, if he  received from the Secretariat an assurance of  flexibility with regard to contracts.
(135) He asked for further information on two points:
(1) did the existing contract system allow for the  possibility of recompensing work which had not been  commissioned, but had proved useful?
(2) could an author who had handed over a manus-  cript to Unesco and surrendered the copyright, regain  possession of his work, without repurchasing it, 1f  Unesco decided against publishing it?
(136) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Porgramme  and Budget) explained that, by the definition of a  contract, services had to be rendered to Unesco  before a contract was given. Compensation to orga-  nizations for work done and not asked for by Unesco  would fall under the category of subvention.
(137) Copyright clauses were waived without incur-  ring expense.
(138) Baron van der STRATEN WAILLET (Belgium)  withdrew his draft resolution.  - 393 -     RUDGET COMMISSION IV-18  Project 3.12: Clearing house for information and  advisory services (paragraphs 55-70)  (i39) Mr. WEILENMANN (Switzerland) considered  that adult education institutes should be given the  place they deserved and, for that purpose, proposed  adding at the end of paragraph 57 the words "with  the help of the institutes of adult education".
(140) He emphasized the importance of resolutions
3.122 and 3. 34, and said that 1t was his opinion that,  If Unesco were deprived of all its activities with the  exception of those, it would still be left with its most  important.
(141) The crucial question was the one of publica-  tious and of how information, factual and other,  should be printed to reach everyone in the world.  Publications should be made in every language in  which it was desired they should be read, and should  be available in cheap form. He suggested that  Unesco, or even better, a committee of experts con-  nected with Unesco, should choose the material for  publication, choose the authors and the publishers  in the various countries and the form in which the  publications would appear. Unesco could assist in the  work of translation.
(142) The scheme he had suggested should be self-  supporting and, to enable that to be the case, Unesco  could approa publishers, hook clubs, humanitarian  societies, etc, who were willing to co-operate in the  field, and ask them not only to publish, but to distri-  bute booklets approved by the Committee.
(143) He asked the Secretariat to consider his  suggestion and thanked Mrs. Myrdal and the Chairman  for all they had done
(144) The Swiss delegate's proposal was supported  by the delegates of Egypt, Uruguay and France.
(145) In answer to a question from the delegate of  Canada why there had been an increase in the budget  appropriation for project 3. 12, paragraph 55, Mrs.  MYRDAL (Director, Department of Social Sciences)  explained that a series of projects which had  previously appeared under separate headings had  been merged into the clearing house project. In  addition, there was a slight increase due to the  number of enquiries which had poured into the  Department.
(146) Mr. VITO (Italy) supported the resolution.  He suggested that contributions to the Social Science  Bulletin should be requested from social science  experts, even if such experts came from countries  having relatively unknown languages.
(147) The draft amendment proposed by the Swiss  delegate was approved.
(148) Resolutions 3.121 and 3. 122 (amended) were  approved  Project 3.13: Improvement of social science  documentation and terminology (paragraphs 71-90)
(149) Mr. ARSENAULT (Canada) asked why the  estimate for 1955-56 for the improvement of social  science documentation and terminology represented   IV-18 PROGRAMME AND  a substantial increase over that for 1953-54. He  noticed that approximately half of the amount was for  the project on the International Bibliography of  Anthropology, and asked whether such a bibliography  was necessary and why it would take so much money  to prepare.
(150) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of  Social Sciences) replied that there had been no very  substantial increase in the budget, which had moved  only from $22,891 in 1954 to $28,668 in 1955, The  increase proposed would be justified by the increased  number of bibliogranhies. Paragraph 83 referred not  only to the Bibliograp« y of arthropology but to the  five bibliographie‘ mn *1oned in paragraphs 78-82.
(151) The CHAIRMAN asked whether the different  countries were called upon to communicate data to  the Secretariat to assist in Compiling the  bibliographies.
(152) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of  Social Sciences) replied in the affirmative. The  technical work was being organized by the Interna-  ticnal Committee for Social Science Documentation,  and the international professional associations  advised on the content to be covered.
(153) In countries such as France and the United  Kingdom, which had well-established bibliographical  services, the work of compilation was done for  Unesco by those institutes. Unesco was trying to  find nationa! correspondents in all countries to help  with the work, relying largely on specialized libra-  rians and documentalists,
(154) Replying to an earlier remark by the delegate  of Poland concerning the absence of coverage in the  bibliographies of publications in Eastern European  languages, Mrs. Myrdal pointed out that coverage  was being gradually extended to all !‘nguistic areas.  She had already mentioned the possibility that  coverage of the Eastern European linguistic area  might be considered for the period 1957-58.
(155) Paragraphs 71-90 were approved.  Project 3.2: Statistics relating tn education, science  and culture  Paragraphs 91-95
(156) Mr. PRATT (Australia) stressed the impor-  tance of project 3. 2 and urged that attention should  be given to the initial stages of the work prior to  collation, in order that classification, analysis and  definitions should be as effec:’ve as possible.
(157) Replying to a question from the delegate of the  United Kingdom, the CHAIRMAN said that document
8C/PRG/2 would be examined at the same time as  paragraph 107.
(158) Paragraphs 91-95 were approved.  Project 3.22: Collection and publication of statistics  (paragraphs 96-102)
(159) Approved without discussion.  BLDOGET COMMISSION  Project 3.23: Improvement of international com-  parabality of statistics (paragraphs 103-112)
(160) Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) had four comments  to make on the standardization of educational  statistics (document 8C/PRG/2, Annex lil).
(161) In the first place, the United Kingdom delega-  tion was not enthusiastic about standardization of  statistics on literacy or on routine schooling, It  was not possible to measure literacy accurately and  he doubted the value of undertaking elaborate  exercises in an attempt to do so.
(162) Secondly, the principal methods suggesied for  obtaining information on routine schooling were by  asking direct or indirect questions. In his opinion,  indirect questionirg was worthless,
(163) Thirdly, the liirector-General had proposed  that schools should 0 defined under categories  different from those proposed by the committee of  experts. In his opinion, the committee of experts!  definition was the right one.
(164) Lastly, he thought that classification of pupils  and students by sex and grade was unsatisfactory.
(165) He hoped that the Director-General would  reconsider his proposals in the light of the recom-  mendations of the comniittee of experts.
(166) Mr. ANGELL (Uruted States of America)  pointed out that, although the United States delegation  was interested in the standardization of educational  statistics and would co-operate in the project, it was  in a difficult position with regard to the procedure  proposed for obtaining statistics. The United States  of America was a Federal Republic and had no  central educational authority. The Government  would be willing to co-operate in the proposed work,  but was not in a position to compel States to  undertake it. He hoped that, 1f results from the  United States of America were incomplete, the  reason would be understood by other countries.
(167) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of  Social Sciences) said that to abstain from attempting  to define measures for illiteracy would be fatal  Even if the standards were not perfect, the very  considerable advances made in literacy constituted  one of the outstanding cultural conquests of our era,  and must be registered.
(168) In answer to the delegate of the United King-  dom, she intimated that thé Director-General had  made proposals at variance with those of the  committee of experts as a result of comments made  to him by Member States.
(169) She pointed out that in document 8C/PRG/2,  the Director-General was only asking for  authorization to send a report with annexes to  Member States for their comments. The  question would have to appear before a General  Conference a second time, under the existing  rules of procedure.
(170) Mr. STEWART (Canada), while agreeing  with the remarks made by the delegates of the  United Kingdom and the United States of  America, supported the resolution and, on  behalf of his Government, expressed willingness  to co-operate in the work.    - 394 -   PROGRAMME AND  Section 11  Project 3.3: Development of social science teaching  (paragraphs 113-134)
(171) Mr. SEDES (Frarce) noted the use of the phrase  at all levels”, In resolution 3.31, in referring to the  teaching of the social sciences. The same expression  occurred again in resolution 3.33. The French dele-  gate asked for further details about the teaching of  the social sciences at second: ry school level.
(172) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of  Social Sciences) explained that the heading for  resolution 3. 3 was inclusive. Teaching vf the social  sciences at all levels was referred to in the para-  graphs of the work plans under that heading.  Elements of social science teaching existed in  secondary school education and an aualysis was  being made with the co-operation of the International  Federation of Secondary School Teachers.
(173) Mr. SEDES (France) proposed that, to avoid  confusion, resolution 3.31 be amend2d as follows:  "Member States are invited to encourage, develop  and improve the teaching of the social sciences, as  such, and the use of knowledge acquired from the  social sciences at all levers of teaching"
(174) The amendment was put to the vote and  approved.
(175) The CHAIRMAN put before the Commission a  draft resolution submitted by the delegation of Iran,  to launch a scheme for setting up an International  institute for the training of international civil  servants (document 8C/DR/62).
(176) Mr. RAADI (Iran) first made the point that the  draft resolution had no budgetary implications, It  related to a preliminary study to determine whether  it would be desirable to set up an institute, under the  auspices of Unesco, to train candidates for the  international civil service. The idea was not a new  one. The two basic factors taken into account in the  recruitment of international civil servants were  professional competence and geographucal distribution  In practice, 1t was often difficult to combine those  two factors and in many cases geographical repre-  sentation could be achieved only at the expense of  professional competence, Or vice versa. The  Iranian delegation therefore felt that it would be wise  to seek a rational solution to the problem, even if it  could not be put into effect until later.
(177) What was IN miad was merely a study of the  question in co-operation with the United Nations and  the other Specialized Agencies. The Director-  General could then report to the Conference at its  next session on the results of his consultation, and  it wouid lie with the Conference to decid2 whether  any such body should be set up. If the 1ustitute were  set up, a student who had attended the course and  been awarded a diploma would not, ipso facto, be  entiucled to a post in an interrational orgenization.
(178) He thought, however, that such a system would  enable the underdeveloped countries to put up  candidates for the international civil service.  - 395 -  BUDGET        COMMISSION 1V-18
(179) Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom)  mentioned the statement of the delegate of Iran that  no budgetary charge would be made for undertaking  the proposed work. In his opinion, however, if the  work was to be done properly, it would take the  Secretarial a very long ime and involve it In much  additional work The problem was highly contro-  versial and 1t was not known whether other agencies  would be willing to co-operate in its solution.
(180) In answer to a question from the delegate of  the United States of America, Mrs. MYRDAL  (Director, Department of Social Sciences) said that  both the United Nations and Unesco kept track of  information on that subject As a project subsidiary  to that for carrying out fact-finding surveys (para-  graph 121) on the teaching of several disciplines,  such as public administration, Unesco could  undertake the necessary work.
(181) The delegate of the Umted Kingdom had been  correct in saying that extra work would fall upon the  Secretariat, but the difficulties here would be  peclhitical rather than technical.
(182) Mr. ANGELL (United States of Ames: 1Ca) was  impressed by the importance of the problem raised  by the delegate of iran. He suggested that the Co'n-  mission agree lo the collection of information suring  the period 1955-56 and leave consideration of a  resolution until the ninth session of the General  Conference,
(183) Mrs, PECSON (Executive board) said that the  Executive Board had not discussed the resolution.
(184) Sir Charles WEBSTER (Umtea Kingdom)  recognized the problem, but being anxious not to  throw the burden of planning onta the Secretariat,  asked the delegate of Iran if he would be willing to  accept the suggestion made by the delegate of the  United States of America.
(185) He suggested that paragraph (1) of the resolu-  tion contained in document 8C/DR/62 might then  read: "to study, jointly with the United Nations and  the Specialized Agencies, the information which  might be used in the future for the establishment of  an international centre or institute. .
(186) Mr. RAADI (Iran) said that, in view of the  explanations given by Mrs. Myrdal, he accepted the  point of view of the United States delegate. He also  accepted the suggestion of the delegate of the United  Kingdom, subject to possible rewording.
(187) The CHAIRMAN proposed that the Iranian and  the United Kingdom delegates should together decide  on the new wording, which would be submitted to the  Commission at its next meeting.
(188) Approved.
(189) Mr. SANCHEZ REULET (Organization of  American States) wished to make a suggestion to  Unesco's Department of Social Sciences concerning  the teaching of statistics. He asked, that were  Latin America was concerned, account should be  taken of the work of the Inter-American Institute of   IV-19 PROGRAMME AND  Statistics in improving teaching and in training  specialists. The Institute had a special centre  dealing with such activities and represented the most  important current project in connexion with statistics.
(190) Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom),  raising a point of order, pointed out that the question  of public administration had been dealt with at  Chicago. In addition, he considered that, as the  question of industrial relations was very involved  and extensive, it would be better if the project out-  lined in paragraph 121 were limited to fact-finding  surveys in the fields of statistics and  demography.
(191) In reply, Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Depart-  ment of Social Sciences) said that the studies which  had been undertaken by the public administration  clearing house in Chicago were not complete. They  did not cover all countries nor all branches of  administration. The work Unesco proposed to  undertake on teaching of public administration was in    BUDGET COMMISSION  accord with the United Nations Technical  Assistance Board.
(192) For the survey of the teaching of statistics,  Unesco could rely on the Int_rnational Statistical  Institute and the Inter-American Statistical Institute,  which would greatly facilitate the execution of that  part of the project.
(193) She admitted that the question of the teaching  of industrial relations was a difficult one and  suggested that it might be deferred until a later  programn.e. A survey on the teaching of crimino-  logy coulc take its place.
(194) Sir Charles WEBSTER (United Kingdom) moved  that the resolution should be adopted with the  suggested amendments.
(195) The Commission adopted resolution 3. 31 with  the French amendment, and resolutions 3. 32 and
3. 33 with the Swiss amendments.  The meeting rose at 7.10 p.m.  NINETEENTH MEETING
30 November 1954 at 9.30 p.n..  Chairman : Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland)  ITEM 8.4.2 OF REVISED AGENDA: NATURAL SCIENCES  (continued)  DR/110: Rational exploitaticn of natural resources  (submitted jointly by the French, Belgian and  Uruguayan delegations)
(1) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) submitted draft resolu-  tion 2. 222, together with the work plan and budget  estimates for 1955-56 and explained that the  document submitted to the Commission was intended  to replace draft resolutions 8C/DR/35, 54 and 60.
(2) Draft resolution 2.222 stated:  "The Director-General is authorized to promote  the co-ordination of research on the conservation  and utilization of natural resources, with reference  more particularly to the repercussions of hydro-  electrical works on the natural environment".
(3) Mr. Florkin drew attention to the serious effect  which the construction of a big dam and other plant  or hydro-electrical works might have on the natural  surroundings of an area when man's interference was  divorced from the enlightenment of expert opinion  on natural conditions.
(4) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Chairman of the  Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget)  announced that the Advisory Committee, after  - 396 -     examining the very interesting proposals c ntained  in draft resolutions 35, 54 and 60, now included in  draft resolution 110, had recommended that they  should be submitted by the Director- Gene. al again  for the 1957-58 programme.
(5) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) explained that the 1dea was to bring  engineers and naturalists together so that the needs  of industry could be weighed against those of nature.  The result would be that constructors of dams would  take into account the effect of their schemes upon  natural resources.
(6) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) reminded  members of the unfortunate results that had  followed the hydro-electrical development of the  semi-ar1” region of North East Brazil. That  immense area was now faced with serious difficulties,  the water that had accumulated above the dams had  dissolved the salines in the soil and had become more  harmful to surrounding vegetation and animal life  than the former aridity had been.
(7) Hetherefore warmly supported the draft resolution.
(8) Sir John SIMONSEN (Umited Kingdom) viewed  the proposal with much sympathy, but proposed  that the Commission should accept the Advisory  Committee's recommendation.