11-5 OGOENERAL  meeting, no other organ uf the Conference should  meet to discuss questions of importance. As the  Executive Board was preparing a paper on decentra-  lization, he suggested that the meeting of the working  party might be postponed until that paper was ready.
(13) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained that,  although the Plenary Conference and the Programme  and Budget Commission were to meet simultaneously,  the latter would be holding a general discussion only  on technical assistance. As for the Working Party on  Decentralization, he would ask the Chairman of the  Board to reply to that question.
(14) Sir Ronald ADAM explained that the Board's  paper was on the National Comroission aspect of de-  centralization. Although it wow. not be ready until  that evening at the earliest, the working party could,  nevertheless, meet to discuss other aspects of the  problem.
(15) Mr. SHARIF observed that the National Commis-  sion aspect was inseparably connected with other  aspects. He did not, however, wish to make a formal  proposal and, if the majority of the General Committee  thought that the working party should meet that after-  noon, he would accept their opinion.
(16) Mr. BOURGEOIS supported Mr. Sharifts sugges-  tion. The Working Party on Decentralization could  be suspended for the duration of the plenary meeting  to meet the difficulties of the smaller delegations  without that entailing the sacrifice of one of the  meetings planned for the working party, which had  only a very limited time for its work.
(17) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES again asked for the  Committee's advice on the subject of working lang-  usages and interpretation at the forthcoming meetings  of the Advisory Committee,
(18) Mr. MONTAGNIER reminded the Committee that  the Rules of Procedure were very definite: Spanish  was a working language of the General Conference on  the same footing ‘as English or French and interpre-  tation into Spanish could only be dispensed with if all  the Spanish-speaking members of the committee  concerned agreed,
(19) Mr. HAGUIWARA confirmed that interpretation  and pointed out that in a small committee the Chair-  man could often get members to agree to dispensing  with interpretation into one or even two of the working  languages for that meeting only. However, before  taking any decision he thought they should hear what  the Secretariat suggested about the programme of  work for the next two or three days.
(20) Mr. MONTAGNIER said that the Programme  Commission would be meeting daily up to Wednesday,
24 November. That day (22 November) a meeting  of the Administrative Commission could be fitted in  during the afternoon by cancelling the meeting of the  Committee on Reports of Member States. For  Tuesday morning, 23 November, meetings of the  Adyninistrative and Programme Commissions and of  two of the Programme Commission's working parties  - 248 -     COMMITTEE  were planned. As it was necessary to make the beat  possible use of the means and time available, !t was  desirable for four of the subsidiary bodies of the  Conference to meet simultaneously. For the after-  noon of the 23rd, meetings of the Programme  Commission, of the Committee on Reports of Member  States, of the Working Party and possibly of the  Advisory Committee, were proposed. On Wednesday,
24 November, there was to be a plenary meeting in  the morning to take item 14 of the agenda (examina-  tion of the report of the Programme ard Budget  Commission and provisional decision ca the maximum  assessment level and on the total budget figure for
1955-56), plus meetings of the Programme Commis-  sion's two working parties and of the Committee on  Reports of Member States. Should a decision on  item 14 be reached at the morning's plenarymeeting,  the Programme Commission could begin the detailed  study of Part II of the proposed programme and  budget in the afternoon and three other subsidiary  bodies of the Conference could also meet; those  might be the Administrative Commission, the Advi-  sory Committee and one of the Programme  Commission's working parties, On Thursday, 25  November, it was proposed to hold a meeting of the  Advisory Committee in the morning and of the  Headquarters Committee in the afternoon.
(2!) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) asked whether the  mestings of the Programme and Administrative  Commission on the 25th, would last the whole day.
(22) Mr. MONTAGNIER said that he did not know  yet what the Administrative Commission would want  to do that day. Generally speaking, though, the  Commission could hold daily meetings except when  the Legal Committee was sitting. H the latter  Committee did not meet on the 25th, the Programme  and Administrative Commissions could hold two  meetings each that day in addition to the propcsed  meetings of the Advisory and Headquarters Com-  mittees and, possibly, two working parties,
(23) The time-table submitted by the Secretariat  was approved.  International Cultural Fund (draft resolution sub-  mitted by the delegation of Brazil) (document
(24) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO, introducing the  resolution, recalled that the Brazilian delegation in  its comments on the Director-General's Report had  suggested the establishment of an International Cul-  tural Fund. At the momelt the Conference was not  being asked to approve the actual establishment of  the Fund, but simp.y to avthorize the Director-  General to have the proposal studied in consultation  with the Executive Board and Member States; very  careful preliminary study was essential and there  had also to be contacts and consultations, not to  mention the essential concurrence of the few States  favoured by fortune and of the numerous States for  which the provision of substantial help under Unesco's  programme was becoming increasingly necessary if  their aspirations and needs were to be met and  the provisions of the Constitution complied with.   GENERAL
(35) In view of the recent changes adopted regarding  the membership of the Executive Board, the speaker  suggested amending the draft resolution submitted by  amplifying the opening sentence to read "Authorizes  the Director-General to arrange for a study, in con-  sultation with the Executive Board and Member  States ...." and striking out the second sentence,  which had become pointless.
(26) In Mr. Carneiro's view it would be difficult to  refuse to commend this text to the Conference; after  all, Unesco was meeting in a region of underdeveloped  countries to which it had not given much help and had  just decided to hold its next session in another under-  developed region. He felt it was most important not  to leave Latin America without giving it grounds for  hoping that Unesco was exercised about its problems  and was trying to solve them nor to arrive in India  without having given that preliminary indication of  interest. He hoped that the project would secure the  unanimous approval both of the wealthy countries and  of the very numerous countries which were less  favoured. Finally, could he be told to what commis-  sion the project should be submitted?
(27) Mr. KABIR, while entirely in sympathy with the  proposal of the delegate of Brazil, thought it more  appropriate for it to be discussed in the Programme  and Budget Commission than in the General Com-  mitiee, which was concerned with procedural matters  only.
(28) Although Mr. COWELL was sure that no one  would contest the fact that the Brazilian proposal was  entirely in line with Unesco's aims, be felt that some  order of priority should be established for all the  appeals for funds being made to governments. His  own Government, for example, was already contri-  butirg to the Expanded Programme of Technical  Assistance and the Colombo Plan; then there was at  present before the United Nations a proposal for the  establishment of a Fund for Economic Development;  there was also the question of the Educational Deve-  lopment Fund. He therefore suggested that a  resolution in broader terms than that of the Brazilian  delegation was required; it might, for example, read:  "The General Conference authorizes the Director-  General to arrange for a study of the utility and  practicability of including among the resolutions of  the General Conference appeals for extra-budgetary  funds for the execution of Unesco's objectives".
(29) In reply to a remark by the DIRECTOR-  GENERAL, Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO said that the  referral of his proposal to the Programme and Bud-  get Commission would be satisfactory to his  delegation.
(30) Mr. KOTSCHNIG would agree to that solution on  the understanding that members of the Programme  and Budget Commission would be able to suggest  amendments to the Brazilian delegation's resolutions  such as that proposed by the delegate of the United  Kingdom.
(31) Mr. LEROY agreed with the measures adopted  but said that a point of procedure arose. In its  comments on Part II, Chapter1, Education, paragraph  - 249 -     COMMITTEE 111-5
143 (8C/BUD/1, p. 5) the Advisory Committee had  made a recommendation that, if the work plans  submitted by the Director-General for the establish-  ment of an International Fund needed to be expanded,  the General Conference should give him any instruc-  tions it considered necessary to enable him to  undertake activities in connexion with the matter in  the light of the decisions taken by the General  Assembly of the United Nations, The question arose  whether that recommendation did not clash with the  proposal of the Brazilian delegation.
(32) Mr. BADINI CONFALONIERI thought that the  General Committee should simply refer the draft  resolution to the Programme Commission, which  could study it in detail.
(33) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO suggested that, to  meet the point raised by the delegate of France, the  amendment of the first phrase might be further  amplified as follows: "Authorizes the Director-  General to arrange for a study, in consultation with  the Executive Board, Member States and the United  Nations...... ",
(34) Mr. BOURGEOIS pointed out that the proposal  of the delegation of Brazil was connected with  another proposal by the same delegation to instruct  the Director-General to consider what major projects  Unesco could undertake under future programmes.  As the latter proposal had been referred to the  Advisory Committee, it would probably be a good  idea to send the Committee Mr. Berredo Carneiro's  latest proposal ns well.
(35) Mr. KOTSCHNIG moved that the Brazilian pro-  posal be referred to the Programme and Budget  Commission and not to the Advisory Committee,  which had already been obliged to refer the question  of the Educational Development Fund to that  Commission,
(36) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES strongly supported this  motion.  Legal guarantees to be provided nationally for the  staff of the Secretariat (draft resolution submitted by  the delegation of Italy) (document 8C/DR/74)
(37) Mr. MONT AGNIER explained that the resolution  was being put before the General Committee because  it was not expressly included in the agenda, unless  it could be read into item 9.5.1 of the revised agenda  (Personnel Recruitment Standards and Methods),  which would be dealt with in the Administrative  Commission,
(38) Mr. BADINI CONFA LONIERI explained that the  purpose of the draft resolution was to make it easier  to secure outstanding and highly qualified persons  for certain important posts in the Secretariat by  removing any fears they might have as to the security  of their careers in their own countries.
(39) The referral of the draft resolution to the  General Conference was approved,   I-35 GENERAL COMMITTEE  PROCEDURE TO BE ADOPTED FOR THE DESCUBBON OF ITEMS
8.3 AND 14 OF THE REVIEED AGENDA
(40) Mr. MONTAGNIER pointed out that that matter  had just been settled by the Committee's approval of  the proposed work plan for the next three days sub-  mitted by the Secretariat. The Administrative  Commission would have to report on the financing of  the budget and the scale of contributions and its  report would be forwarded to the Programme Com-  mission; the Conference could decide about item 14  in plenary meeting on the morning of the 24th,
(41) This procedure was approved.  AMENDMENT TO TEE WORDING OF ITEM 13 OF THE REVIEED  AGENDA, AND PROCEDURE TO BE ADOPTED FOR THE  ELECTION OF TWENTY-TWO MEMBERS OF TER EXECUTIVE BOARD
(42) Mr. MONTAGNIER said that, when the agenda  was drawn up, it provided for the election of 10  members only. Arising out of the proposal adopted  by the Administrative Commission, the number of  members now to be elected to the Board was 22. The  Chairman was going to make a statement on the pro-  cedure for those elections, and the dates had still to  be fixed,
(43) The CHAIRMAN read the draft of a statement  which would be made in plenary meeting after the  amendments to Article V of the Constitution had been  approved. The text of the statement would appear in  the verbatim record of the eleventh plenary meeting
(44) Mr, KABIR remarked that the meeting of the  Nominations Committee had originally been scheduled  for 3 December. It was now proposed to hold it on
7 December, and he asked if it would be possible to  advance it one day, so that it would meet on 6  December.
(45) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO pointed out that the  Member States who had nominated candidates before  the Administrative Commission had decided to change  the membership of the Executive Board, would have  to confirm or amend their nominations in the light of  those changes; on the other hand, the States wbich  had proposed the changes would presumably not have  to supply such confirmation.
(46) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL informed the Com-  mittee that a number of governments, anticipating  the possible adoption of the proposed amendment to  Article V of the Constitution, had already nominated  candidates before the opening of the eighth session.  It would therefore be unnecessary to call upon them  again for nominations.
(47) Mr. RUIZ-GIMENEZ asked whether, in view  of the new method of election, the list of  nominstions should show the names of the can-  didates or the names of the countries which  they would represent. He felt that the Com-  mittee would have to draw up lists giving the  names of countries, not of individuals.  - 250 -
(48) The CHAIRMAN thought it was a reasonabla  question to ask. In his view, as the principle  governing representation on the Board had been  changed, countries - not individuals - should be  nominated for election.
(49) Mr. BERNAL JIMENEZ said that the system of  representation had been changed but certain criteria  in the Constitution still remained, more particu-  larly, those relating to the personal qualities of  prospective Board members. Article V, paragraph
2, of the Constitution still held good and required  that candidates, although they had now become the  representatives of their governments, should possess  certain specific qualifications in the aris, letters,  the humanities, the sciences and education. For an  adequate response to the Spanish delegate's point,  the two types of criterion had to be combined.
(50) Mr. RUIZ-GIMENEZ indicated his agreement  with Mr. Bernal Jimenes's statement.
(51) Mr. KOTSCHNIG, replying as first sponsor of  the motion to amend Article V of the Constitution,  explained that the election was to be an election of  individual persons nominated by their governments  and responsible to the latter. Although it was pos-  sible under the Rules for a government to nominate  a candidate who was not one of its own nationals, he  did not believe that the case was likely to arise.
(52) Mr. SHARIF pointed out that the usual procedure  was for the elections to be completed in one day, the  Nominations Committee meeting in the morning and  the Plenary Conference in the afternoon. He con-  sidered it butter to follow that practice, and proposed  that the Nominations Committee meet on 7 December  ia the morniug and the Plenary Conference in the  afternoon.
(55) Mr. KABIR seconded the remarks of the dele-  gate of Pakistan on the point cf procedure, but  proposed that the meetings be held on 6 December  and that Saturday, 4 December, Le fixed as the last  day for the submission af nominations.
(54) Mr. MONTAGNIER pointed out that that pro-  posai did not quite square with the Rules of '  Procedure, under which nominations could be  submitted up to the opening of the plenary meeting  at which elections would be held unless the Rules of  Procedure were amended by the Conference. Dele-  gations could, however, be asked to do their best to  lodge their nominations befora the end of the day of
(55) Mr. HAGUIWARA thought that the delegate of  Pakistan was right in urging that the interval  between the meeting of the Nominations Committee  and of the plenary meeting of the Conference should  be as short as possible. He suggested that the  Nominations Coramittee sit in the afternoon of 6  December and the morning of 7 December, with the  plenary meeting in tha afternoon of 7 December.
(56) Mr. MONTAGNIER thought that the proposal  was perfectly practicable but emphasized the need   GENERAL  for an interval of two or three hours at least between  the meetings of the Nominations Committee and the  plenary meeting, us the material for the latter would  have to be got ready.
(57) This proporal was approved,
(88) The CHAIRMAN, summing up the proposals  made by members of the Committee, said that the  proposal was to have a first meeting of the Nomina-  tlons Committee during the afternoon of 6 December,  a second meeting of the Committee in the morning of
7 December and the plenary meeting to deal with the    CONMITTEE UI-6  question in the afternoon of the same day. Did the  General Committee approve that arrangement ?
(59) Mr. SHARIF agreed on the understanding that  the Nominations Committee would make its nomina<  tions on the same day as the election.
(60) The CHAIRMAN announced that the General  Comm ittea would meet again un Wednesday, 24  November, at 9 a.m.  The meeting rose at 10. 25 a.m,  SIXTH MEETING
24 November 1954 at 9 a.m.  Chairman: Mr. SHARIF (Paxistan)  PROGRESS OF WORK
(1) Mr. MAHEU reminded the meeting of the pro-  cedure decided upon. The Programme and Budget  Commission was to discuss that morning the  provisional assessment level for 1955 and 1956 and  to draw up recommendations in the light of those  submitted by the Administrative Commission. Those  two series of recommendations were to have been pre-  sented to the plenary Conference for final decision  on the morning of 25 November, but certain delega-  tions had spoken to the Secretariat of their misgivings  they feared that members of the Programme and  Budget Commission, not knowing what had been  recommended by the Administrative Commission,  would stert discussing matters on which they were  not qualified to speak. For those reasons, the  Secretariat proposed the following changes in pro-  cedure,
(3) That morning a short plenary meeting would be  held to take a final decision on the recommendations  of the Administrative Commission concerning: (1)  arrears of contributions and voting powers of the  countries concerned; (2) scale of contributions; (3)  financing of the budget,
(3) Those decisions would then be communicated to  the Programme and Budget Commission that after-  noon; the Commission would be free to make any  recomm endations it wished on the provisional budget  total, and they would be submitted to the plenary  meeting for approval on the morning of 25 November.
(4) While agreeing with the recommendations of the  Secretariat, Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS proposed that,  if possible, there should be a meeting of the plenary  Conference that evening at 6 p. m. to fix the provi-  sional budget total, on the recommendation of the  Programme and Budget Commission. If that could    be done, the Programme and Budget Commission  would be able to continue its work without interruption  the following morning.  {5) Mr. MAHEU saw no objection to the proposal,  provided that the Programme and Budget Commission  were able to complete its discussion by 6 p.m,
(6) The procedure proposed by the Secretariat, as  amended by the delegate of the United Kingdom, was  approved.
(7) The CHAIRMAN called upon the Chairman of the  Programme and Budget Commission to report on the  Commission's work.
(8) Mr. BOURGEOIS said that on the previous evening  the Programme and Budget Commission had com-  pleted its discussion of the chapter on technical  assistance and had unanimously adopted the resolutions  contained in document 8C/5, Annex VIII, with a few  amendments of form rather than substance.
(9) Mr. BEEBY reported that the Administrative  Commission had deal with the question of the voting  rights of certain countries and would be ready to  report thereon to the plenary meeting that morning.  Further, its recommendations on the sale of contri-  butions and methods of financing the budzet were to be  found in s document before the Committee.
(10) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES announced that the Advi-  sory Committee's consideration of the Final Report of  the Committee of Experts on Education for International  Understanding and Co-operation was well advanced, and  that it was hoped to complete that item during the morning.  - 251 -