25 November 1954 at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman : Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil)  ADOPTION OF THE PROVISIONAL AGENDA (document 18 HQ/1)
(1) The agenda was adopted.  APPROVAL OF THE SUMMARY RECORDS OF FUE SEVENTEENTH  SESSION (documents 17 HQ/SR.1 (prov.) and 17 HQ/SR.2 (prov.))
(2) At the proposal of Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece),  the summary records of the seventeenth session  were aprroved.  REPRESENTATION OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD ON [IIE  HEADQUARTERS COMMITTEE
(3) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive  Board) hoped that the Headquarters Committee  would not object 1f a representative of the Board  thenceforth attended its meetings without the right  to vote.
(4) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) attached great  importance to Sir Ronald Adam's proposal; he  thought it essential that the Executive Board should  be represented at the meetings of the Headquarters  Committee.
(5) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Rapporteur) strongly  supported the proposal that a representative of the  Executive Board attend the meetings of the  Headquarters Committee, without the right to vote.
(6) The proposal was adopted.  PROGRESS REPORT ON NUILDING OPERATIONS IN PARIS
(7) In response to a request from Mr. GARDNER  DAVIES (Rapporteur), Mr. CALLISON (Chief  Engineer, Headquarters Office) gave a progress  report on the building operations in Paris. The  building permit had been reccived from the French  Government, and the site hac been cleared of  military buildings and was ‘n J suitable state for  excavations to start. Satisi..tory international bids  had been taken and were bei z evaluated in detail.  A collation of satisfactory b: .5 showed beyond doubt  that there would be enough m ney in the budget to  construct the Headquarters Building. Thereafter,  the letting of contracts and a: ual process of  construction would be a matter of routine. In  conclusion, Mr, Callison said that the site had  thenceforth been taken over from the French  - 927 -     Government, so that Unesco was entirely responsible  for it.
(8) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Rapporteur) thought the  news very satisfactory but, as there had been some  delay, he wondered if Mr. Callison would outline the  proposed stages of work during 1955.
(9) Mr. CALLISON (Chief Engineer, Headquarters  Office) explained that the preparation of contracts  had been somewhat delayed because it had been  necessary to harmonize bids from a number of  countries, and that had involved a great deal of  comparison. Ih would be possible, however, to let  the first and most important contract (excavation  and masonry) in December, and it was expected to  take some eighteen months to execute. À series of  other contracts (electricity, plumbing, etc.) would  then be concluded progressively. It was estimated  that the major part of the shell of the building would  be up by the end of 1955, there would also be a  considerable number of other trades represented  during the masonry work. Dates for contractors,  with penalties for delay 1n delivery, would have been  fixed. It was expected that the building would be  completely finished at the end of December 1956 or  in January 1957.
(10) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) thought it  fortunate that it had been decided to hold the ninth  session of the General Conference in New Delhi, as  the permanent headquarters obviously would not be  ready in time. The calendar of work showed over  six months' delay in starting the actual construction.  With regard to tendering, he had had a rather strong  complaint from a British electrical firm and wondered  if the specifications had been drawn up in the correct  way from .ne point of view of international  competition. He asked if Mr. Callison could throw  any light on progress in that aspect of the work. It  was Important to avoid needless complications, as  international competition would certainly be intense  and the matter would be complicated enough in any  case.
(11) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) felt that the problem  raised by Mr, Cowell was an extremely delicate one.  It was difficult to ask the Director-General to lay  down particular specifications for any given country.  It should, however, be possible to draw up technical  specifications acceptable to firms 1n the different  countries.
(12) There was, of course, a problem of dimensions  and standards. For the provision of electric plugs,   xI-2 HEADQUARTERS  for instance, they would have to abide by French  standards, otherwise they would run up against  great difficulties later when it came to replacements.  In general, however, the Committee could ask  Mr. Callison to see that the specifications would be  equally acceptable to British firms, or to those of  any other country.
(13) Mr, CALLISON (Chief Engineer, Headquarters  Office) was aware of the question raised by the  British contractor. He explained that the consulting  electrical engineer had been replaced, and although,  basically, there had been no change in specifications,  additional information had been supplied to iirms  wishing to tender. At all events, the complaint was  being investigated.
(14) Mr. POMPEI (Italy) emphasized that the  question was more than a technical one. The  Secretariat had laid down extremely detailed  specifications - too detailed, in the opinion of some  firms - and that showed that Unesco's interests had  been diligently defended.
(15) Mr. Pompei wished, nevertheless, to be  informed about the method used tor invitations to  tender and the awarding of contracts. With regard  to prices, the offers could certainly be worded very  briefly and sent in a single envelope. On the other  hand, several copies of technical details should be  supplied so that they might be examined by all the  experts concerned. It would also be useful to  deposit in one of Unesco's safes a copy bearing  Unesco's seal and the signatures of the members  of the Headquarters Building Contracts Committee.
(16) Mr. CALLISON (Chief Engineer, Headquarters  Office) replied that the problems mentioned by the  delegate of Italy had been anticipated and that all  precautions had been taken. The procedure had been  that prices had come in one set of sealed envelopes,  and technical offers in another. They had been kept  under lock and key until all the material was in  Unesco's possession. When the deadline for the  submission of materials had run out, the tenders  had been opened in the presence of the seven  members of the Headquarters Contracts Committee;  they were at present being examined for accuracy,  thoroughness and conformity with the project. The  problem of combining contractors of different  nationalities was being broached with the utmost  care and secrecy. All action wouid be on record  and, when secrecy was no longer necessary, could  be verified by anyone, The fact that Unesco, as an  intergovernmental organization, enjoyed exemption  from certain taxes and import duties had complicated  the base offers, and adjustments had had to be made  in order to ascertain the exact cost for Unesco.
(17) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) thanked  Mr. Callison for his explanations. He thought that  it would be useful if the Committee could have a  document containing a schedule of all the operations  described by Mr. Callison. He had no intention of  bringing pressure to bear on behalf of any British  firm, but he felt justified in pointing out that the  invitations to tender had all been drafted in French  without any indication that specifications were  - 928 -     COMMITTEE  required; also that the specifications had been  changed, not leaving contractors much time  afterwards,
(18) Baron van der STRATEN WAILLET (Belgium)  wished to know what method was used for publishing  invitations to tender. Did the Secretariat act through  government channels or did it establish direct  contact with the firms it thought most competent?
(19) The Belgian delegate also asked whether the  Secretariat was going to invite further tenders and,  if so, how firms interested could get in touch with  the Secretariat to offer their bids.
(20) Mr. CALLISON (Chief Engineer, Headquarters  Office) replied that, at the present time, 85 to 90% of  the bids had been made. Others would come later,  and their scope would be determined to some extent  by the initial bidding. As to the results of the  bidding, nothing had yet been decided, but successful  bidders would be notified in due course. Invitations  to tender had been published in the French news-  papers and letters announcing the competition had  been sent to all National Commissions. Some  countries had been very active in passing on the  information to their contractors, while others had  replied that, 11 iew of the distances involved, it  was not an interesting proposition for their firms.  All parties interested wrote and secured question-  naires, and replies to 1, 500 questionnaires had been  received. It was found that there were more  qualified contractors than could possibly be ased.  Those with the best qualifications had therefore been  selected and notified that they could bid. All had  operated on the basis of identical materials.  SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT ON THE ACCOMMODATION OF THE  EUROPEAN- AFRICAN OFFICE OF THE INTERNATIONAL CIVIL  AVIATION ORGANIZATION (ICAO) IN THE PERMANENT  HEADQUARTERS BUILDING OF UMESCO (document 18 HQ/2and  Add.)
(21) The CHAIRMAN recalled that the question had  already been examined at the Committee's seventeenth  session and since then had been the subject of direct  negotiations between the Director-General and  representatives of ICAO, He asked the Legal  Adviser and the Rapporteur to explain the present  position to the Committee.
(22) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) said that the legal  problem raised by ICAO's request was as follows:  to construct on a site for which the French Govern-  ment had granted Unesco a 99-year lease, renewable  every 99 years, a building for the accommodation of  ICAO, and if necessary, in the upper storeys, for  the accommodation of Unesco. The Secretariat  intended to safeguard in its integrity Unesco's right  of ownership over the buildings. It was therefore  proposed to ask ICAO for the sums necessary for  the construction of the building to be used as its  regional office, and to recognize ICAO's right of  occupation for as long as it desired.
(23) The two cases in which ICAO's right of  occupation would come to an end had also been  envisaged.   HEADQUARTERS
(24) 1. If ICAO decided it would no longer maintain  a regional office in Paris, Unesco would have a right  of pre-emption over the part of the building in  question, in return for a payment proportional to the  number of years ICAO had occupied the building.  ICAO intended to obtain from the French Government  an interest-free loan repayable in 30 years. If ICAO  were to cease occupying the building after 15 years,  Unesco would assume responsibility for the 15  remaining annual instalments,
(25) 2. If Unesco decided to relinquish the buildings  on the Place Fontenoy site, the French Government  could exercise its right of option by purchasing the  buildings. Failing that, Unesco could decide to  purchase the site by virtue of the right of option  accorded to it. That double stipulation was intended  to enable the site and the buildings to be held, if  necessary, in the same hands. In those circum-  stances, Unesco would pay ICAO a reasonable  indemnity, but only if ICAO's right of occupation  came to an end before 1 January 2000.
(26) The CHAIRMAN considered that the Committee  should first decide on the fundamental principle of  the building's ownership, so as to be able to give  the Director-General the necessary instructions.  As a member of the Committee, and in view of the  negotiations that had already taken place, he thought  Unesco should be given full rights of ownership over  the additional building, whatever the circumstances.
(27) Mr. CABOUAT (France) thought that the draft  contract outlined by the Legal Adviser constituted  the simplest and wisest solution to the problem.  Moreover, that solution coincided with the various  possibilities offered to Unesco in the lease granted  by the French Government. Unesco could not sub-  lease a part of the site without the prior consent of  the French Government and that would raise  complicated problems.
(28) Mr. Cabouat noted, however, that in Annex III  of document 18 HQ/2, page 9, paragraph 19, it was  stated that "ICAO might transfer the benefit of its  contract only to another Specialized Agency of the  United Nations", and he wished to know what would  happen if no Specialized Agency wanted to succeed  ICAO. That was only a hypothetical contingency,  but it should not be overlooked.
(29) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Rapporteur) remarked  that the Committee seemed to be considering details  before the general principle. He proposed that a  decision be taken first on the principle before  discussing the means of implementing it.
(30) He recalled that the Headquarters Committee,  at its seventeenth session, had been informed by the  Director -Genera! that ICAO's Council had not finally  decided whether or not it wished to have accommo-  dation at Unesco's permanent headquarters. The  Committee had therefore agreed that it could not  take a decision on a hypothetical request, but had  authorized the Director-General to continue negoti-  ations with ICAO, on the understanding that the  granting of accommodation would not involve additional  cost or delay. The Director-General had further  been authorized to submit the plan of the ICAO  building to the Panel of Five. Mr. Gardner Davies    CONMITTEE XI-2  asked the Director-General to explain what the  present position was.
(31) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL hoped that the  Committee would approve the principle of granting  accommodation to ICAO, while laying emphasis on  Unesco's right of ownership. He felt sure that the  misunderstanding on the part of the ICAO Council  would be cleared up when the French law had been  explained to them, He would review with ICAO the  question whether the payment of 3% of the maintenance  costs by ICAO was too high or too low.
(32) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) seconded the  proposal that the Headquarters Committee approve  the principle of making accommodation available to  ICAO. The Committee could then go on to discuss  the details of the bargain.
(33) The CHAIRMAN suggested that the Committee  should first take a decision on the principle of  concluding a contract with ICAO, It could then  discuss the question of Unesco's right of ownership,  and the details of the proposed contract.
(34) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Rapporteur) hoped that,  when the legal aspect had been discussed, the  Committee would have an opportunity to consider  the architectural aspect.
(35) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) felt that it was  essential to safeguard Unesco's right of ownership.
(36) The CHAIRMAN said he was in favour of  stipulating first and foremost the principle of  Unesco's right of ownership over any building  constructed in agreement with ICAO, whatever the  terms of the contract might be,
(37) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) likewise  accepted that principle.
(38) Mr. CABOUAT (France) said it must be under-  stood that the recognition of Unesco's right of  ownership implied the application of the terms of  the lease to the whole of the site.
(39) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Rapporteur) entirely  agreed with the principle, but wanted to know whether  it would be acceptable to ICAO.
(40) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL replied that he  believed that the Council of ICAO would accept the  principle concerned.
(41) The CHAIRMAN interpreted the principle as a  condition sine qua non of a future contract between  Unesco and ICAO.
(42) Mr. POMPEI (Italy) emphasized that the  principle must also be applied in the event of further  sto~ eys being added to the building.
(43) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) said that was a  logical consequence of Unesco's right of ownership,  but it would be advisable to stipulate it expressly  in the contract.   X1-2 HEADQUARTERS
(44) The CHAIRMAN considered ihe Committee was  agreed in recognizing the need to safeguard Unesco's  right of ownership over the building that might be  constructed for the accommodation of ICAO. He  asked the Committee if it had any objections to the  continuation of negotiations between the Director-  Gereral and the representatives of ICAO within the  framework of the proposed plan and with a view to  concluding a contract.
(45) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) took it that the  Committee had disposed of the question of joint  ownership in paragraph 2 of Annex I to document
18 HQ/ 2 (page 4). He suggested that the Committee  should therefore pass on to consider paragraph 3,  i.e. the possibility of ICAO's relinquishing the  premises before the complete reimbursement of  construction costs.
(46) Mr. CABOUAT (France) wished to repeat what  he had already said at the Committee's last session,  as representative of the host State: in the light of  the experience acquired during the negotiations  which had taken place during the last two years, the  French Ministry of Foreign Affairs hoped that the  Director-Ge.c: al, before signing a definite  agreement with ICAO, would keep it unofficially  informed of the development of the negotiations so  that it might, if necessary, give its opinion on any  particular point.
(47) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL replied that he would  be glad to accept that undertaking.
(48) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Rapporteur) reminded  the Committee that it was only an advisory body and  that it was for the Director-General himself to report  to the General Corference, He presumed, however,  that the Committee's recommendations would be  anuexed to that rer ,-t.
(4 The DIRECTOR-GENERAL agreed with the  Ra porteur that the Headquarters Committee's main  task was to advise the Director-General, but, as a  committee of the General Conference, it should  report to the Conference on the advice which it gave  to the Director-General. Its. report could, as the  Rapporteur had suggested, be annexed to his own.
(50) The CHAIRMAN considered that an addendum  containing the recommendations adopted during the  Committee's current session should be added to the  Committee's report to the General Conference.
(51) Mr. POMPEI (Italy) remarked that the French  Government had only asked to receive unofficial  information about the negotiations between Unesco  and ICAO, He asked whether the lease did not  contain any clause relating to transactions such as  the one under consideration and whether it would not  be advisable to associate the French Government  more closely in the current negotiations.
(52) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) replied that, under  the terms of the lease, Unesco was authorized to let  part of the premises to an international organization  or Member State. Another clause authorized the    COMMITTFE  transfer of the use of a part of the site to an  organization belonging to the family of the  United Nations.
(53) The lease also provided that a part of tte  premises could b~ let temporarily to organizations  not belonging to the family of the United Nations,  but it was stipulated that the French Government  must be consulted whenever it was proposed to  transfer the right of occupation of part of the site.
(54) The clause of the draft contract with ICAO  stipulating that ICAO could transfer the benefit of  its contract >nly to another Specialized Agency of  the United Nations had been drafted expressly to give  every guaraniee to Unesco and to the French  Government. Habitation of the same site could be  harmonious only if the site were occupied by two  organizations belonging to the family of the United  Nations. Such l'armony was all the more necessary  as it was proposed to grant ICAO a right of perpetual  occupation.
(55) Mr. CABOUAT (France) entirely agreed with  Mr. Saba that the clause in paragraph 19 of Annex Ill  of document 18 HQ/2 met the wishes of Unesco and  the French Government. His previous remark merely  concerned the legal aspect of the question. In a  contract of that kind it was advisable to anticipate  all possible consequences. In the event of ICAO's  relinquishing the premises, and if Unesco did not  wish to take them back itself, ICAO sho id be asked  to give priority in the transfer of its contract to  another Specialized Agency of the United Nations, or,  failing that, to another organization, in agreement  with the French Government,
(56) Mr. SABA (Legal! Adviser) said that he had  envisaged such a clause but had not felt it possible  to retain it, Certainly, if an organization quite  acceptable to Unesco and the French Government  offered to succeed ICAO, at a relatively short  interval, there would be no difficulty; but it would  be better to leave the General Conference complete  freedom in the matter and not to introduce too  automatic a clause. The General Conference would  thus be able, if necessary, to approve a new contract.
(57) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) said that the  Legal Adviser had anticipated most of what he had  intended to say. He took it that the conclusion was  that the Headquarters Committee should refer in its  report to the possibility of ICAQ relinquishing the  premises before the complete reimbursement of  construction costs, recommending that it be left to  the General Conference, in consultation with the  French Government, to decide what to do in such  an eventuality.
(58) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) replied that it  would be for the General Conference to  authorize the Director-General to recover the  premises in question. If such authorization  were not granted, ICAO could transfer its  right of occupation to another Specialized  Agency of the United Nations; failing that, it  would be necessary to provide a new contract  which would have to be approved by the  General Conference.  - 930 -   READQUARTERS
(59) Mr. POMPE! (Italy) thought that, if the General  Conference did not authorize the exercise of the  option and if ICAO did not find another Specialized  Agency of the United Nations willing to succeed it,  Unesco's rights should be safeguarded, for it might  be maintained that Unesco, in not exercising its  right of option, was renouncing its rights in the  matter.
(60) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) asked whether it  would be stipulated that, if ICAO transferred the  benefit of its contract, negotiations with Unesco  would be necessary.
(61) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) thought it  would be useful to obtain particulars concerning the  financial aspects of the problem. In fact, it seemed  that the contract might entail considerable expenditure  on the part of Unesco.
(62) Mr. SABA (Lega! Adviser) said that ICAO would  be free to transfer the benefit of its contract to any  organization belonging to the family of the United  Nations, but the French Government maintained a  right of control in the matter, since its authorization  was necessary for the installation on its territory of  the headquarters or regional office of an international  organization.
(63) ICAO would obtain the loan already referred to  by negotiating directly with the Caisse des dépôts et  consignations. Even if ICAO decided to relinquish  the premises, it would remain responsible for that  debt. Unesco would succeed ICAO only if the General  Conference decided to exercise Unesco's right of  option.
(64) If it did not exercise that option, the General  Conference must not ignore the fact that it was  relinquishing certain rights, but there would be no  legal void, for ICAO would, in principle, retain the  right of occupation of the premises as long as it was  unable to transfer it to another organization and it  could even decide to maintain a reduced service on  the spot or negotiate a new contract in which it would  be possible to reinstate Unesco's rights.
(65) Paragraphs 18 and 19 of Annex III of document
18 HQ/2 were merely a preliminary draft. It would  no doubt be necessary to stipulate that ICAO must  give fairly long notice, 4 years for instance, in  order to enable the Secretariat to study all the  possibilities in the event of ICAO's departure and to  submit to the General Conference all the facts which  would help it to take a decision.
(66) Although it might be useful to stipulate that  Unesco should be consulted, it would be dangerous  to introduce a clause giving Unesco an actual right of  “veto in the hypothetical circumstances envisaged,  since ICAO's possibilities were, after all, fairly  limited.
(67) The CHAIRMAN proposed that, in the light  of the observations made, the Commitiee  should recommend that the Director-General  be authorized to continue the negotiations and  conclude an agreement with ICAO. That  recommendation would be included in the  Committee's final report to the General  Conference.    COMMITTEE X1-2
(68) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Raoporteur) approv ed  the proposal provided that a satistactory solution  were found for the architectural problem.
(69) The Chairman's proposal was approved subject  to the reservation made by Mr. Gardner Davies.
(70) Mr. COWELL {United Kingdom) entirely agreed  with the Chairman's formula, but proposed adding  that the Director-General should undertake the  negotiations on the basis of the principles set forth  in Annex III.
(71) With regard to procedure for the conclusion of  the finel contract, he suggested that the General  Conference might be requested to authorize the  Executive Board to approve the final contract  prepared by the Director-General,
(72) The CHAIRMAN asked Mr. Cowell if he would  agree that the final contract should be approved, not  by the Executive Board, but by the Headquarters  Committee.
(73) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) replied in the  affirmative,
(74) Introducing the discussion on the architectural  aspect, Mr. CALLISON (Chief Engineer, Headquarters  Office) drew attention to the letter from Mr. Gropius  in Annex Ii to document 18 HQ/2 and to the ietter  from Mr. Le Corbusier in document 18 HQ/2 Add. 1.  Although the proposed new building had been called  the building for ICAO, that was not entirely the case.  The Headquarters Office considered it also as a  building designed for the future expansion of Unesco.  It had not been possible to execute the original plan  for expansion, and the latest proposal, which fitted  in with ICAO's request, would be far more economizal.  Unesco's future expansion, moreover, would nct he  affected, whether it was ICAO or another organization  occupying part of the building. The architectural plan  itself had been prepared by the three working  architects and approved by four of the five members  of the International Panel. As far as the Headquarters  Office was concerned, the plan was entirely  satisfactory. Certain aspects of the plar suggested  by Mr. Le Corbusier were vather more complicated  and costly.
(75) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Rapporteur) recalled  that every precaution had been taken at the architect-  ural level during the past two years to ensure that  Unesco had the best possible advice on a world-wide  basis. Thenceforth, when it was proposed to  introduce a large new element, he felt that the same  precautions should be taken. He therefore proposed  that a meeting of the Panel of Five be convened, if  necessary at ICAO's expense, to approve the plans  for the additional building before the Director-  General was authorized to proceed with construction.
(76) Mr. CABOUAT (France) agreed all the more  readily with Mr. Gardner Davies! suggestion as the  problem of the building's appearance had raised most  of the difficulties in obtaining a building permit.
(77) It was envisaged that the height of the new  building might subsequently be increased, but for  - 931 -   X1-2 HEADQUARTERS COMMITTEE  some considerable time the building would remain  incomplete and the architects should constantly be  concerned to give the incomplete building, the plans  of which would be submitted to the appropriate  French authorities, an aspect not displeasing to  the eye.
(78) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL would agree to  convening the Panel of Five, but wondered at what  stage and by what procedure he would obtain authority  to proceed with construction if he did not agree with  the Panel of Five.
(79) After hearing the remarks of Mr. Gardner  Davies and Mr. Cabouat, Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece)  felt somewhat uneasy, particularly as paragraph (b)  of Mr. Le Corbusier's letter, set out in document
18 HQ/2 Add. 1, declared that "the proposed layout  of the building ... is quite inharmonious and ...  would constitute an eyesore in what has becoine an  harmonious setting’. It would be well to put an end  to such controversies and request that the relations  between the Panel of Five and the Director-General  be ensured exclusively through the Chairman of the  Panel of Five; otherwise the situation would become  very confused.
(80) Baron van der STRATEN WAILLET (Belgium)  agreed with the French delegate's remarks. The  Place Fontenoy site was in danger of being disfigured,  for several years, by the presence of an incomplete  and inharmonious building. Moreover, the Commit-  tee was faced with two schemes, one in an annex to  document 18 HQ/2, the other attached to Mr. Le  Corbusier's letter.
(81) It was difficult to form an opinion on the basis  of Mr. Le Corbusier's rough sketch, and it would  therefore be helpful to convene a new meeting of the  architects, as had been suggested by Mr. Gardner  Davies.
(82) In conclusion, Baron van der Straten Waillet  asked whether there was not a contradiction between  the Director-General's words, in paragraph 9 of  document 18 HQ/3, to the effect that the proposed  project would not involve ''any additional expenditure  for Unesco'', and the fact that Unesco must utilize a  part of the basement of the building in question.
(83) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL replied that some    funds would be used which would otherwise have been  spent on subterranean space outside the limits of the  building itself. As regarded the Panel of Five,  provision had already been made in the budget for a  meeting in January. If ano’‘ner meeting proved  necessary, ICAQ might be asked to pay the cost of it.
(84) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Rapporteur) thought  that it would be necessary to call a second meeting  of the Panel to approve the final plans, Personally,  he would not like to have to approve in July plans  which had been approved by the Panel only in the  preliminary stage.
(85) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) recalied that the  Committee had already asked that their meetings,  each of which cost $5,000, should be limited in  number. He proposed it be decided that the meeting  envisaged should be the last.
(86) The CHAIRMAN gathered from Mr. Gardner  Davies' suggestions that te Panel of live would meet  at the end of January at Unesco's expens*. They  would hold another meeting at ICAO's expense in  order to examine the draft plans of the three  architects. Finally, the Conference would have to  authorize the Committee to approve the final plans  so that building operations could be started.
(87) The Committee then took note of the Director-  General's supplementary progress report (document
(88) The CHAIRMAN proposed that the Rapporteur  draw up an addendum to the Committee's report to  the Conference and that it should later be submitted  to the Committee for approval,
(89) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Rapporteur) agreed  with the Chairman, He thought that the Committee's  report should contain some draft resolution on the  points discussed; he of‘ered to prepare 1t for  approval by the Committee before the report was  submitted to the Admiristrative Commission.
(00) Agreed.  The meeting rose at 7 p.m.  - 932 -