v-3) PRO GRAMME AND  {123) Mr. CARBONELL (Cuba) asked that, as the  draft resolution under consideratior did not include  the design of the emblem, the words “reproduced  above" should be replaced by "Unesco".
(124) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) said that Unesco's  emblem was a distinctive sign and seal for which  only Latin characters should be used, He thought,  however, that a distinction should be made between  the scal and the use of Unesco's name in any  characters whatsoever,
(125) The draft resolution contained in document
8C/PRG/9 was put to the vote and unammously  approved.  ITEM 8.4.7.3 OF REVISED AGENDA — PUBLICATIONS IN  ARABIC (7C/6.722)
(126) Mr. DELAVENAY (Chief, Documents and  Publications Service) reminded the Commission that  the General Conference, at its seventh session, had  adopted resolution 6, 722, calling for a report to he  made to the Conference at its eignth session on  publications in Aiabic,
(127) That report was contained in documents 8C/3  and 8C/3 Add.  B     v  DGET COMMISSION
(128) Mr. Delavenay added that the Commission was  simply asked to taxe note of it,
(129) The Commission noted the report,  Draft resolution 8C/DR/12: Translation of Unesco  publications into German
(130) Mr. DELAVENAY (Chief, Documents and  Publications Service) saidthat the Advisory Committee  had recommended that draft resolution 8C/DR/12 be  studied with a view to inserting it in the future  programme, andthatat had also approved a resolution  concerning the translation of Unesco publications into  languages other than the official languages of the  Organization.
(131) It seemed therefore that it would be  possible, with the co-operation of the National  Commissions in the German-speaking countries, to  make a start on the implementation of the Austrian  delegation's proposal, ’
(132) The proposal was put to the vote and  unanimously approved,  The meeting rose at 12,55 p.m.  THIRTY-FIRST MEETING
6 Lecember 1951 at 3,30 p.m,  Chairman. Mr. MARTINEZ ESPINOSA (Ecuador)  CORRIGENDUM: SOCIAL SCIENCES PROGRAMME —  PROJECT 3.4 * SOCIAL SCIENCES AND PROBLEMS OF  INTERNATIONAL UNDERSTANDING AND TENSIONS (document
(1) Mrs. MYRDAL (Director, Department of  Social Sciences) recalled that, after the very
1mportant joint resolution on peaceful co-operation  had been adopted, Project 34 had been referred back  for revision by the Secretariat.
(2) In revising the project, her Department had  benefited from the resolutions passed, and the  suggestions made, in the Commission. It had taken  account of two resolutions (documents 8C/DR/21 and
8C/DR/95, not formally discussed) and had given  attention to the report by the Expert Committee on  Education for International Understanding and  Co-operation, It had also taken such expert advice  as was available in individual delegations.
(3) Some individual projects had teen dropped;  elsewhere the emphasis had been changed. Aid to  Member States (paragraphs (161)-(163}) remained as  in document 8C/5,
(4) There were now only two main projects  instead of three, namely A. Peaceful co-operaticn,  and B. International Understanding and  Misunderstanding.
(5) As regarded the former, an attempt had been  made to embody the substance of the Czechoslovak  draft resolution, and it was proposed that Unesco  should convene an inter-disciplinary meeting of  social scientists from regions with different cultural  outlooks.
(6) In paragraphs (152) and (153) an attempt was made  to emphasize the means laid down in the United Nations  Charter for the peaceful settlement of disputes, and  also to give satisfaction to those who had advocated  Gandhian doctrines.
(7) In paragraphs (158)-(160), it was proposed that  an attempt should be made to trace the sources of  international misunderstanding by means of research  into the media of mass communication.
(8) She had worked on the assumption that the  same budget limits should be respected. In fact,  it had been possible to make a small saving of  some $800.  - 482 -   PROGRAMME
(9) Mr. DUERING (Sweden) said that his delegation  fully approved the proposals now before the Commis-  sion. They were the outcome of fruitful collaboration  between the heads of departments and the experts in  individual delegations.
(10) The Expert Committee on Education for  International Understanding and Co-operation had  discussed the matter Just before the Conference and  had reported thereon (document 8C/DIV/8C). That  report had been thoroughly discussed by the Advisory  Committee on Programine '…id Budget (see document
8C/BUD/3), which, in general, had approved the  views of the Exper: Committee.
(11) He .ouid therefore propose that the Commission  adopt the following resolution  "The General Conf rence
1. Takes note of the Final Report by the Expert  Committee on Education for International  Understanding and Co-operation (document 8C/DIV/a0).
2. Recognizes that the Report contains views,  suggestions and recommendations which seem likely  to serve the cause of international understanding and  provide criteria and recommendations for future  action by Unesco in this field.
3. Invites the Director-General and the Executive  Board, in executing Unesco's programme for 1955-56  and in drafting future programmes, t~ consider the  views and recommendations set forth in this Keport"
(12) Paragraphs (141)-(151), (152)-(155), (156)-(157  (a), (158)-(160(b)), and (161)-(163) of document
8C/PRG/29 were successively adopted.
(13) Mr. KELLY (Australia) was glad to find that  most of the objections that had been raised at previous  meetings to the project as a whole had now been  answered, He appreciated the work done by the  Department of Social Sciences in revising it, and was  in favour of the adoption of the Swedish resolution,
(14) Mr, FRANCOIS (France) recalled that the  French delegation had made serious reservations with  regard to resolution 3,4, If it was now prepared to  give its approval, 1t was because the whole project,  as recast, was more homogeneous and, what was  even more Important, made :t clear that one of the  essential functions of the Department of Social  Sciences was to obtain information which could be  profitably used by the other programme departments,  and because it stressed the need for close collabora-  tion in that field with the appropriate non-governmental  organizations,
(15) Lastly, the project dealt with exactly the type of  activity that Unesco should pursue - long-term work  whose success depended to a great extent on  continuity of effort.
(16) The systematic study of the factors making for  international understanding and misunderstanding  would provide some index of pubtic opinion with  regard to the possibility of peaceful co-operation  between the peoples,
(17) Such a study was essential and the French  delegation hoped that the project would be given an  even larger place in tuture programmes.
(18) Mr, MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  asked whether the Swedish delegation wished its  AND BUDGET     COMMISSION IV-31  proposal, with the substance of which the Secretariat  agréed, to take the form of à specific resolution, or  whether it would ve satisfied if the text appeared in  full in the Commission's report, in view of the fact  that approval by the General Conference in plenary  meeting would give it, 1H common with the rest of the  Report, the force of a directive to the Director-  General.
(19) Apart from the fact that the proposal would,  owing to i's form, be difficult to insert among the  other programme resolutions, it should not be  forgotten that the report wh.ch had given rise to it  was produced by an Expert Committee convened for  consultation, and that the Director-General had simply  submitted 1t to the Commission for information,  owing to its Importance,
(20) Mr. DUERING (Sweden) said that he would be  satisfied if the substance of the resolution he had  proposed were embodied in the Commission's report,  as a decision,
(21) Mr, FORSYTH (New Zealand) was happy that the  suggestion made by the Assistant Director-General  had been adopted.
(22) Project 3,4, as amended by the Department of  Social Sciences, showed that Mrs, Myrdal was most  amenable to the suggestions that had been made, and  he was confident that the Secretariat would give close  attention to the report by the Expert Committee, a  most valuable document.
(23) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) recalled that the 1dea  of establishing such a con mittee had been put forward  by France in 1952, but with different purposes In  view.
(24) The French delegation had reservations to make  about the way its suggestion had been interpreted,  about the constitution of the Committee and about the  mission assigned to it.
(25) It would not, however, oppose the discussion of  the report in plenary meeting, but it wished to urge  the Commission to recommend that the introduction  be very carefully examined, as it had already given  rise to many objections regarding both form and  content,
(26) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) seconded the  proposal by Sweden, as amended after discussion with  the Assistant Director-General.
(27) Mr. DUERING {Sweden} emphasized that the  word "approve" occurred nowhere in his proposed  text, which was merely a recommendation to the  Director-General to give attention to the report by the  Expert Committee in planning future programmes.
(28) Mr. SUZUKI (Japan) supported the Swedish  proposal.
(29) The text proposed by the delegation of Sweden (to  take the form of a decision in the Commission's  report) was put to the vote and adopted by 27 votes  to 0, with 1 abstention.
(30) Mr, CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commission)  read out draft resolution 8C/DR/88, submitted by  - 483 -   IvV-11 PROGHKAMME AND  the Brazilian delegetion in the form of an amendment  to document 8C/DRy 69 (International Cultural Fund).
(31) Mr. BERREDO TARNEIRO (Brazil) said that  his Government and National Commission had for a  long time been trying tu find a solution to the problem  arising from the great d.sparity between the  Or gamzation's resources and the real needs of  Member States.
(32) The Brazilian Govern nent wished to collaborate  with the majority of Membe- states who were trying  to stabilize the programme «nd budget, for the States  which bore the greater part c° the financial  responsibility for the Organization were justified in  not wishing the ceiling of expenditure to rise year  after year.
(33) But, though stabilization of the budget at the  existing level might he necessary, it was still  desirable that 'nesco’s activities should continue to  develop if the mamfest disparity between the aid  given to Member states and their real needs was  ever to be red ced,
(34) For that rerson, the Brazilian delegation asked  the Conference to a ithorize the Director-General to  arrange for a ~tudy, in conseltation with the Executive  Board, the Member States and the United Nations, of  the proposal to institute an International Cultural  Fund to serve the real needs of the States in the fields  of education, science and culture,
(35) That extra-budgerary tund would be financed by  gifts from Member states, national and international  organizations, and public or private associations
(36) When the National Commissions of various  Member states - particularly in the many under -  develnped regions - rvet, they often feit that thev  were getting nowhere because they simply had not  the necessary res urcees,
(37) ltwasessenticl that those countries shouldknow  and see that Unesco s is ~oncernedabout then diffi-  culties, was studving means toremedvthem and  preparing a report which the Director-General would  submit tothe General Conference at its next session,
(38) Mr. ESTELRICH (3pain) warmly supported the  well-calculated and optimistic proposal which the  Brazilian delegation had just put forward,
(39) Mr. ABEYWICKREMA (Ceylon) strongly  supported the creatior of a fund to be operated in  conjunction with the othe r Specialized Agencies,
(46) Mr. McCULLOUGH (Umted States of America)  said that all would surmipathize with the 1deas behind  the Brazilian resolution, But a similar proposal had  already been submitted, in connexion with the  creation of an edrcational fund, It had been decided  that, pending the outcome of discussions in progress  within the United Nations whether such a fund should  he set up and how much money should be devoted to  it, action sho.id be postponed untii the ninth session.  He would therefore propose that for the sake of  consistency action on tne Brazilian resolution be  postponed "tit the minth session.
(41) Mi. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) had wished to  say the same thing, and strongly supported the  United States sauge tion,
3U ND GET COMMISSION
(42) Mr. GOMEZ HOYOS (Colombia) said that, as  the proposal was not only optimistic but realistic, it  might be approved immediately on the understanding  that, in two years' time, at the ninth session of the  General Conference, the methods that the Director-  Generar would suggest for its implementation would  be disgussed.
(43) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) thanked the  delegates of the United states of America and the  United Kingdom for the sympathy they had expressed  for his proposal,
(44) But the great host of 1iliterates would not be  content with expressions of sympathy; they needed  action and practical measures to assist them,
(45) Mr. Ber:edo Carneiro assured his col.eagues  that, if they only travelled through India or Latin  America, they would not have the heart to oppose what  was at the moment merely a suggestion for a study.
(46) The division, which had become apparent at the  last session of the General Conference, between States  without resources which were asking for aid and more  fortunate States shich were seeking to restrict the  field of activity, had already lasted too long.
(47) The establishn.ent of the proposed fund was  necessary, and should be given consideration without  delay. The Brazilian delegation hoped that there  would be a unanimous decision on the resolution so  that the Commission might disperse in an atmosphere  of concord and hope.
(48) Mr. ZAMORANO HERNANDEZ (Chile) agreed  with the Brazilian proposal and trusted that 1t would  meet with the unanimous approval of the Commission,  without indulging in exaggerated 1dealisin, he  considered that Unesco should embark upon a study  of the proposal,
(49) Mr. ARTHUR (Umted Kingdom) asked what was  to be done with the proposed fund, How would it be  collected? From voluntary sources in Member States  or would governments be asked to contribute.  How would the fund operate in relation to the United  Nations Technical Assistance programme and to  Unesco's own programme of technical assistance?
(50) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) said that he  would not have asked fcr the project to be studied 1f  he had known the answers to the questions put by the  United Kingdom delegate.
(51Y Each Member State would have to say how it  thought the fund should be organized, how much 1t  desired such a fund, and what methods it wished to  see adopted for operating the fund. The members of  the Executive Board would also havc to give their  views on the feasibility of the scheme.
(52) The Brazilian delegate reiterated that 1t would  be an independent, extra-budgetary fund managed by  Unesco. It would absorb smaller funds which were  too numerous to be effective.
(53) It could be said immediately that it was 1n  Unesco's power to set up such a fund, but the questions  asked by the United Kingdom delegate should be left  to the Executive Board, the Director-General, Member  States and the United Nations to answer in two vears'  time, after detailed studies had been carried out.  - 484 -   PROGRAMME AND  (t4) Draft resolution 8C/DR/88, submitted by the  Brazilian delegation, was approved by 30 votes to 10,  with 2 abstentions.  Draft resclution 8C/DR/68 on the establishment of a  Latin American regional centre for secondary school  teacners
(55) Mr, COTO CONDE (Union of Latin American  Universities) said that the proposal submitted by the  delegation of Honduras had no financial implications,  as the Chilean Government had officially offered to  do the work of implementing it; he therefore asked  the Commission to approve it.
(56) Mr. ZAMORANO HERNANDEZ (Chile) said  that the scheme would provide a happy answer to one  of the most urgent cultural needs of Latin America,  Secondary education In those countries required  standardization of curricula, tHrethods, techniques,  information, etc. At the proposed Regional Centre,  serving teachers from the whole continent would  meet to follow basic courses on education and the  diferent tranches of science and literature, in  addition, the Centre would provide information, and  deal with exchanges and experiments in the different  types of secondary education,
(57) The Government and the National Umiversity of  Chile, which were anxious that Unesco should  collaborate us far as possible in founding a Latin  Americar regional centre for secondary school  teachers, were prepared to provide premises,  laborator es and some of the teaching and  administrative staff for the Centre,
(58) In giving its assent to the proposal put forward  by the delegation of Honduras, Unesco therefore  stood to lose nothing, on the contrary, the support it  gave would add to its prestige.
(59) Mr. AREYWICKREMA (Ceylon) said that,  according to the sponsors of the proposal, Unesco  would not be called upon to contribute. But reference  was made to help from the Director-General. Did  that imply financial commitments?
(60) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  said that the request could be met within the funds  for which provision was already made in document
(61) Mr. GOMEZ HOYOS (Colombia) warmly  supported the draft resolution and, 1n view of a  certain reluctance to incur expenaiture on the project,  suggested that Unesco should give technical aid to  the proposed Centre by arrangement with the Chilean  Government. In that way, the new institution would  at least have a certain international standing.
(62) Mr. ROMA.O MUNOZ (Mexico) was very  Sympathetic towards the draft resolution and did not  wish to oppose it in principle. But the extreme  diversity of niethods and curricula in Latin American  secondary education led him to believe that,  independently of any aid that Unesco might give, all  those countries would first have to reach agreement  on the necessary standardization of secondary  education, Besides Unesco's aid, a Latin American    BUDGET COMMISSION {Vv-31  congress or secondary education should be held  without de ay to bring about the standardization which  was essential if the studies to be promoted in Chile  were to produce practical results.
(63) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that under  resolution 1. 213, already adopted, he hud all the  authority he required to examine projects of the kind  mentioned in the resolution. He already had authority  to spend money on the proposed centre,
(54) He would be giad to consider the question of  assisting such a centre, But, at the stage reached,  the Conference ought not he thought to adopt specific  resolutions of that kind without having had the time to  consider them in detail,
(65) Mr, BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) said that  the Director-General's comments were in line with  his own 1deas. The Chilean delegation could rest  assured that the Secretariat was interested in 115  proposal.
(66) For the rest, many of the resolutions already  adopted left the Director-General an ple latitude for  action of that sort,
(67) Mr, NIELSEN (Denmark) recalled that at an  earlier meeting the Chairman had ruled that resolu-  tions which were not definite amendments to the  programme and were submitted after tne time-limits  laid down could not be discussed, since they would  not have been considered either by the Advisory  Committee or Ly tre Executive Board,
(68) If the proposal was a defimte amendmert to the  programme, 1t should have been submitted when the  Commission was discussing resolution 1.213.
(9) It was not correct to say that the proposal had  no budgetary implications. It would certainly use up  some of the money already appropriated for such  purposes over the ‘ext two years.
(70) Was the proposal an amendment to the fist of  fields enumerated in paragraph 199 of the Education  chapter of the programn e and budget as being those  in which assistance migh' be requested free and  compulsory schooling, teacher training, etc. ?
(71) Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) said that, in  adopting the various programme resolutions and  appropriations, the Conference was authorizing the  Director-General to proceed with certain types of  work. Thereafter, if a particular Member State  wanted work done on its territory, it should write to  the Director-General to put its case, and the  Director-General would then weigh one claim against  another.
(72) It would be most unfortunate if the Programme  and Budget Commission were to be flooded with  resolutions calling for specific work to be undertaken  in specific places,
(73) Mr. FORSYTH (New Zeaiand) agreed. The  Commission had a tendency to go into excessive  detail, It should confine itself to questions of  principle, and leave the Director-General free to  implement 1ts decisions as he saw ‘at.
(74) Mr. COTO CONDE (Union of Latin American  Universities) said that the proposal under discission  - 485 -   IV-31 PROGRAMME AND  had been subinitted in good time to the competent  authorities in Unesco by Chile, Honduras and the  Union of Latin American Universities, and the  wording of it had been decided in agreement with  them.
(75) Mr, FRANCOIS (France) endorsed the observa-  tions of the delegates of the United Kingdom and New  Zealand.
(76) The French delegation would not take a decision  on such an important matter as the establishment of  a regional centre for secondary teachers on the  basis of a draft resolution a few lines in length, with  no supporting explanation or background information,
(77) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) said that, ahile  the Executive Board had recommended that the  procedure for aid tc Member States should resemble  that for Technical Assistance, no definite procedure  had been adopted. Thus proposals calling for  techmcal aid should merely Le referred to the  Director-Gener.il, who would decide between them,  and award priority treatment, on their merits,
(78) Mr. ZAMORANO HERNANDEZ (Chile) explained  that the aim of the proposed regional contre was to  improve the standards of secondary teaciing in Latin  America by achieving a rore even level in education  between different countries, He mentioned, ot the  same time, that the firs. South American seminar on  Secondary Education would shortly open in santiago,  Chile.
(79) In that instance, recov .e had heen had to  Technical Assistance, which was cunsidered tn be  the best method of procedure. The Chilean vroposal  was really that the Director-General should take due  account of the wishes of the Latin American countries,
(80) The proposal had been caretuiry tnought out,  and the Director of the Department of Educatior. had  in his possessin a memorandum giving full  background inf. rir ation,
(81) Objection might be ruised to the form of the  proposal but to belittle it and speak lightly of it as  an improvisation ceased to be merely 1nept and  became offensive and irritating.
(82) Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) wished it to be  understood that a vote against the proposal in no way  implied that the delegation so voting did not want the  Director-General most carefully to examine the  proposal, or wanted him to refuse all aid to the  project in question. If his delegation voted against,
1t would be because it felt that the Director-General  had been given sufficient authority already to deal  with it on its merits.
(83) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Depariment of Education)  said that the proposal had in fact been discussed with  the Secretariat In rather ful'er detail! than might at  LUDGET COMMISSION  first sight appear. The propesal was most interest-  ing, and he had the Director-General's authority for  suying that, if it were submitted in the ordinary way,  it would receive the inost sympathetic consideration,  (R4) The resolution of the delegation of Honduras  (Cocument 8C/DR/68) wes put to the vete and  rejected by 17 vot:s to 5, wit 17 abstentions,
(85) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  confirmeu the interpretation to be given to the  rejection vf the draft resolution submitted by Honduras,
1t 1n no Wa; impueu that the proposal would not be  studied, bu: merely that it would be examired with  other similar requests received from Member States.  Draft resolution 8C/DR/106 (rev.) International  Cult ural Celeurations
(86) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commission)  submitted draft resolution 8C/DR/106 (rev.) and read  out an amendment to the second paragraph made by  the Indian delegation, as follows  "Authorizes the Director-General, in consultation  with the Executive Board, to study the question nf  marking the centenaries of writers, painters,  musicians, scientists, philosophers and other n.en of  gemus who have enriched the cultural herit: ge of  mankind, and to invite Member States and their  National Commissions to organize suitatle  celebrations for this purpose,”
(87) Mr. MUJEEB (India) strongly supported the  Hungarian proposal. His delegation had proposed an  amendment to the second paragraph, If that  amendment were adopted his country would provide  the names of distinguished Asian figures whose  centenaries might suitably be czlebruted.
(88) Only persons of international importance should  be proposed for celebration by Unesco. In other  cases, 1ndividval States or National Commissions  could take the initiative,
(89) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) endorsed the request  by the Indian delegate and further suggested that the  Unesco Courier should take up the question by  publishing biographies and article: about eminent  men whose names appeared 1n the list.
(90) Mr. McCUILLOUGH (United States of America)  supported the resolution ds am anded, and hoped that  suitable additions to the list of distinguished figures  would be proposed from other parts of the world.
(91} Mr. TAMAS (Hungary) agreed with the amend-  ment suggested by India, since it did no more than  confirm the importance of commemorating in common  the great figures of world culture.
(92) Mr. COWELL {united Kingdom) said that nobody  would quarrel with the ideas behind the resolution.    - 486 -   PROGRAMME AND  Educationalists In many countries were endeavouring  to familiarize the public with the achievements of  persons who had made their mark in history.
(93) The idea of celebrating anniversaries was not  new, August Comte had drawn up a calendar of his  own for the purpose. Some of the names he had  chosen would sound strangely to modern ea-s,
(94) The list of persons worthy of celebration was  already exceedingly long, and to add more names  would require more days than there were in the year,  Any action by Unesco on the lines suggested would  most certainly not increase the prestige cf the  Organization. Such action could best be left to the  inittative of Member States. He would therefore  move that no action be taken on the resolution.
(95) Mr. FORSYTH (New Zealand), as theheadmaster  of a large school, agreed with the previous speaker  that to lay down a list of names would be to impose a  formidable burden on educationalists. If there were  too many celebrations, the effect intended would be  entirely Inst upon young people,
(96) An interesting suggestion had been made by the  delegate of France. Perhaps the Courier could from  time to time provide educationalists with factual data  about the lives of farnous men and women, in order  that, every year, a few such great men and women  right be selected for celebration.  BUDGET     COMMISSION IV-31
(97) Mr. SOLDATOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) said that the task of Unesco was to improve  the cultural level of mankind, and adoption of the  proposal would contribute to that end,
(98) He could not share the apprehensions felt by the  delegate of New Zealand. Under the proposal, only  five centenaries would ne celebrated in two years.  It would increase the prestige of Unesco if such  celebrations were made world wide,
(99) The Hungarian resolution, as amended by India  (document 8C/DR/106 (rev.), was put to the vote and  adopted by.28 votes to 9, with 7 abstentions.
(100) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil), with the  Chairman's consent, read out a recommendation  adopted by the International Folklore Congress,  held at Sao Paulo in 1954 under Lnesco's auspices.  It ran as follows "that a meetin of a limited  number of experts representing tie main trends  Le convened under Unesco's ausp.ces at the  appropriate time to make an exhaustive study of  such problems and, if possibie, to propose the  solutions called for."  The meeting rose at 5.50 p.m.  © 487 -