13 November 1954 at 3.45 p.m.  President: Mr. ZAVALA MUNIZ (Uruguay)  CONTENTS  Speech by the delegate of the Malaya-British Borneo Group 57  Admission of ubservers from international non-governmental  organizations. . . . +. 440 ++ 0 4 6 0 0 05 2 000 0000 57  Submission by the Chairman of the Executive Board of the  Report by the Director-General . , . . . .. ++ 000000 58  Speech by the Director-General . , , . . . . . 005 0000000 58  General discussion of the Report by the Director-General:  Speeches bythe delegates of Greece, Sweden, Iran and Haiti 62  SPEECH BY THE DELEGATE OF THE MALAYA-BRITISH  BORNEO GROUP
(1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call upon the delegate of the Federation of Malaya.
(2) DATO NIK AHMAD KAMIL (Malaya -British  Borneo Group): Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen,  the General Conference of Unesco assembled at this  session has done great honour to the Government and  people of the territories of Sarawak, North Borneo,  Brunei, Singapore and the Federation of Malaya,  known as the Malaya-British Borneo Group, by ad-  mitting them as a group to Associate Membership of  this great Organization. It is my pleasure and pri-  vilege today to express on their behalf their deep  sense of gratitude and sincere appreciation of the  consideration you have shown,
(3) Maylalsoavail myself of this opportunity of saying  how grateful we are to Her Majesty's Goverrment in  the United Kingdom for sponsoring our admission as  a group Associate Member. By our admission to  the Organization and in assuming the privileges  and obligations of Associate Membership, we  are proudly conscious of the fact that we are now  privileged to participate within such limits as are  set by the General Conference in the deliberations  of this Conference and to take an active part from  time to time in the monumental task of the Organiza-  tion, If we are permitted to devote our efforts and  energies in some small measure to realization of the  noble aims and objectives of Unesco then I can assure  you that the people and governments of the territories  of the group can be relied on to play their modest  part and to give of their best.
(4) The territories comprised in the group are si-  tuated at the heart, as it were, of South East Asia,  a region which is playing a bigger part than ever  before in the promotion of peace and goodwill amongst  - 57 -     the nations of the world, Political progress is being  accelerated in our territories, but the happiness and  welfare of the people are not to be measured in terms  of political maturity alone. Side by side with this  progress, we must also hasten the advancement of  knowledge and understanding. The hearts and minds  of the masses must be attuned to a fuller and better  realization and acceptance of the obligations that go  with wisdom, knowledge and truth.
(5) We have in the last few years set our hand to a  vast programme of social reforms, and we must  maintain that programme to the best of our abilities.  But there is much more that we want to do. 1 should  be failing in my duty if I did not here and now acknow-  ledge with gratitude the benefits and assistance we  have had in the past from Unesco through the good  offices of Her Majesty's Government in the United  Kingdom, I feel confident that we can continue to  look to Unesco for further aid to enable us to conti-  nue our work. We are planting for the future, and  not for ourselves. We may be impatient at times,  but future generations will not bless us if we plant  without due care. We must plant deep and firm. I  take my seat as the accredited representative of the  Group, with the firm conviction that, through Unesco,  the people of our territory will be sharing fully in  the common cultural heritage of mankind.  ADMISSION OF OBSERVERS FROM INTERNATIONAL  NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS
(6) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  We will now consider item 12 of the agenda. I call  upon the Chairman of the Executive Board.
(7) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive  Board): The recommendations of the Executive Board  on this matter are set out in documents 8C/2 and
8C/3 Add. In application of Article IV, paragraph
13, of the Constitution, and Rule 7 of the Rules of  Procedure, the Executive Board recommends that the  Conference admit as observers at the present session  representatives of the following non-governmental  organizations, This, of course, is in addition to  the 105 organizations which have consultative  status with us and which automatically have the right  to be represented, The first group consists of the  Carnegie Foundation for International Peace, the  Rockefeller Foundation and the Ford Foundation. The  activities of these three organizations are interna-  tional in scope and they have attended a number of  our previous conferences as observers,
(8) Next is the Union of the Latin American Univer-  sities, and we consider that that organization has a  special interest for us as we are meeting in Latin  America, Finally, there are the International Asso-  ciation of Plastic Arts, the Universal Esperanto  Association, l'Académie Internationale de la Céra-  mique, the International Union of Students and the  World Federation of Democratic Youth, These last  four organizations have applied to be admitted to  consultative arrangements, and their applications will  be considered by the Conference later, Meanwhile  the Board recommends that they be allowed to  be represented by observers, in order that they can  state their case when it comes up, if they are  invited to do so.
(9) On behalf of the Executive Board, I recommend  the admission of observers from the nine organiza-  tions I have mentioned,
(10) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  If there is no objection to the proposal made, on be-  half of the Board, by its Chairman, it will be  considered to be approved.
(11) Approved,  SUBMISSION BY THE CHAIRMAN OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD  OF THE REPORT BY THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL
(12) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  We now come to item 13 and I call again upon the  Chairman of the Board,
(13) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive  Board): In accordance with the Constitution, it is  my duty to present to you today, on behalf of the  Executive Board, the report of the Director-General  and the Executive Board on the activities of the Or-  ganization during the year 1953 (document 8C/3) and  the supplementary report of the Director-General on  the activities of the Organization from 1 January to
30 June 1954 (document 8C/3 Add.}. In the case of  the 1953 report, the first report communicated to  Member States under the amended text of Article V
(9) of the Constitution, which we adopted at our last  session, we have included in the printed document,  for the first time, the comments of the Board (pp. 7  and 8 in the English text) and the Board's report on  its own activities, which you will find on pp. 25 and
(14) As you can read it yourselves, I will only call  your attention to certain points of the Report. The  PLENARY     - 58 -  MEETINGS  Board has pointed out that Article V (9), which asks  the Director-General to present the report for 1953,  for instance, in the year 1953, is quite impossible  to carry out. With the best will in the world, the  earliest date by which we could get the 1953 Report  published was May 1954, and the Director-General  has put a proposal in front of you for an amendment  to dispose of this difficulty.
(15) When examining the Report, the Board suggest -  ed that ir the future there should be an introduction  highlighting the major events of the year or illustra-  ting the carrying into effect of one or more major  themes. The Reports of the Director-General are an  account of the Organization's work, and are essential  for the archives, but we felt that a short beginning to  that Report highlighting things would be very valuable  to members who are talking about Unesco in their  own countries or to the Press. There were also  suggestions that a conclusion be added about the work  which has been accomplished, an assessment of the  importance of the results and a statement of what re-  mained to be done. That, I think, requires more con-  sideration, for we do not want to add to the length of  the reports if we can possibly help it, The Board  also reports with satisfaction the visits the Director-  General has paid to Member States, The Board felt  it was most important for the Director-General, as  soon as possible, to see Member States and where  the work is really being carried on,
(16) During 1953, the Board was obliged to hold four  sessions, Two were almost entirely taken up with  the election of a new Director-General. One session  was held, as usual, during the extraordinary session  of the Conference which elected the Director-General,  There was a meeting at the end of the year called for  in order to take account of changes necessitated inthe  next year's programme, and to make the budgetary  transfers which are always necessary at the end of  the year.
(17) Early in the year, the Board made a study of the  matters before it, hoping that we might be able to  leave a number of items to the Director-General, and  iessen the very heavy load of our administrative pro-  gramme, With the help of the Legal Adviser, we  studied this and we found, with one or two very minor  exceptions, that everything we were doing was ordered  either by the Constitution or by the Rules of Procedure  or by resolutions of General Conferences, and that we  could not legitimately reduce any of that load of work.
(18) The most interesting ipnovation of the year,  which we owe to Dr. Veronese of Italy, a member of  the Board, and for which we have been grateful ever  since, was the suggestion that we should have informal  meetings without an agenda or numerous working  papers and, if possible, away from Unesco House.  The first of these was held at Gif-sur-Yvette on 26,
27 and 28 November on a general appreciation of the  Organization's position in the world today, and it was  the starting point of the paper you have in front of  you, or will have, on Remodelling the Future Pro-  gramme .
(19) We felt that there were a number of other sub-  jects we should like to discuss at length - methods of  work, National Commissions and other matters - and  we hope that it will be the practice of the Board in  future years to take two or three days in which they  can get down, with the minimum of documentary   PLENARY  material, to the discussion of the principles or work  of Unesco,
(20) I will turn now to the second report. It has  been quite impossible within the time available for  the Executive Board to print anything on this report.  It came up for our consideration just before the pre-  sent session and I will only bring out one or two  points that struck us in reading it, We particularly  noticed the lack of concordance between the report  of Unesco and the Reports of Member States, although  one would have thought that the report of Unesco,  which relates what is going on in most of our Member  States, might find some echo in the reports of those  Member States, which probably are in a much better  position to assess the results of their own points of  view than any one else. It has also been suggested  that these reports might usefully contain an account  of the implementation of the Conventions that Unesco  has drawn up, this, partly for information and partly  to stimulate signature by States that have not signed  them.
(21) A further suggestion, which we did not have  time to go into in detail, was that there should be  some attempt at co-ordination between the various  parts; the introduction to the chapters of the pro-  gramme, the Report by the Director-General and the  Reports by Member States. This is a difficult ques-  tion and would have to be considered at some length.  We all, I know, want to save paper, members of the  Board before all others.
(22) An interesting point on technical assistance was  raised, although it 1s a matter for the Technical As-  sistance Board and not for Unesco. You will see in  the report on Technical Assistance that experts are  to advise States, at their request, on subjects such  as science teaching. Now their reports are confi-  dential, coming direct from the expert who is serving  the Member State; yet those reports would be of  great value to other Member States and to other ex-  perts. It is not an easy question and it is not for  Unesco to solve it but I know that the Director-  General is considering approaching the Technical  Board on the matter,
(23) I turn now to the Board's own work during 1954.  It held three sessions. The first (No. 37), a longone,  met in Paris from 10 March to 9 April. It was  necessarily long because the Director-General, who is  now responsible under the Constitution for both pro-  gramme and budget, wanted our advice and we had  to go through the programme in detail, and the  Director-General in his final programmeaccepted a  number of our suggestions. 1 believe that that was  a very important meeting. We also had to prepare  the comments on the report for 1953 which I  mentioned,
(24) Our second session met in Venice from 14 to
28 July. The Board expressed both in writing and  orally in Venice its gratitude to the Italian Govern-  ment, the city of Venice and Dr. Veronese, but !  should like to do so publicly here. We worked longer  hours and got through more work even than in Paris,  partly due to the delightful monastery on the Isle San  Giorgio, which we were allowed to use by courtesy  of the Foundation, and we have a great deal for which  to thank Dr. Veronese and our old friend Mr. Branca,  the Director of the Institute. We had opportunities  to sce something of Venice, 'nostly in the evenings  - 59 -     MEETINGS 1-4  and also of attending the Biennale and the Film Festi-  val, which I believe was valuable to all of us, The  Board continued its work in private meetings and  studied the problem of the remodelling of the pro-  gramme, afterwards turned over to a committee, and  problems of decentralization and National Commis-  sions, which we had not time to finish. I hope, before  this Board disappears, we may have a chance of  finishing that subject,
(25) Finally, I should like to report briefly on new  journeys that I made in company with the Director-  General and another member of the Board, one in  Asia, and another, before this meeting, in some of  the countries of Latin America. [ am very grateful  to the Director-General for his invitation, and to the  Board for making it possible for me to go. On the  visit to Asia, Professor Oscar Secco Ellauri, the  member of the Board who comes from Uruguay, and  on the second journey Mr, Sharif from Pakistan  accompanied meand Dr. Luther Evans, The value of  those journeys - to see in the field the actual work of  Unesco, to attend the meetings of National Commis-  sions, which we normally only read about, and to  hear direct from Member States what they want from  Unesco - was inestimable. We saw amongst other  things the very interesting Latin American centre for  Fundamental Education at Patzcuaro, the school pro-  ject in a province of Thailand, the Japanese National  Commission at work and a great many other things,  and | should like to say how grateful we are to the  governments - | speak now for the Board members  and myself - for their hospitality and kindness to us.  Lastly, 1 should like to thank the Government of Brazil  and Professor de Berredo Carneiro for two delightful  days we spent in Rio on our way here, days which 1  think were valuable in allowing Board members  coming from Asia and other countries to see another  Latin American State.  SPEECH BY THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL
(26) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spamsh):  I call upon the Director-General,
(27) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL: Mr, President and  honourable delegates, 1 wish to make a few brief re-  marks supplementing the lengthy account you will find  in these two documents,
(28) First let me join you in thanking the Vice-Presi-  dent of India for his fine work as President at the last  two Conferences and at the beginning of this one. It  was he who administered to me the Oath of Office and  signed with me my contract of employment, so that I  shall continue to think of him in a way as your agent  in giving me employment. 1 wish certainly to express  my thanks to the Executive Board, which has worked  with me in a wonderful spirit in the period since July  of last year, and to the Chairman and those members  of the Board who have journeyed with me on some of  my visits to Member States. Their counsel to me in  the course of our travels was indeed helpful and had  a great deal to do with my thinking about the future  programme of the Organization, including the propo-  sals now before the Conference.
(29) 1 should like of course to take this opportunity  also to thank the Government of Uruguay for all ithas
11-4 PLENARY  done to make this Conference the success which 1  am sure it is going to be, I came here a little over  a year ago to talk to the Government about arrange-  ments for the Conference and 1 found the officers of  the Government, and also of the city of Montevideo,  most co-operative and helpful. I wish also to thank  all the Member States, more than 30 of them, who  were so kind to me on the occasion of my visits, and
1 thank all the other people and organizations who  have co-operated so wonderfully with the Secretariat  during the past sixteen months,
(30) The most important thing that I have tried to  do in these sixteen months has been to increase the  existing confidence in the Organization among all of  the parties with whom it deals, I have wanted to in-  crease the confidence of Member States in the Organ-  ization, to increase the confidence of the members  of the United Naiions family in the Organization, to  increase the confidence of other intergovernmental  organizations in us and in our work, and also to im-  prove the relations of confidence that exist between  us and the non-governmental organizations.
(31) In my travels and in the contacts I have had with  representatives of governments who have visited me  in Paris, or who are themselves in Paris, I have  tried to speak frankly; I have solicited views on the  welfare of the Organization and I have expressed my  own views so that we might have a free and full ex-  change. The most important thing for the future of  Unesco seems to me to be the attitude which our  Member Governments, the international organiza-  tions, the non-governmental organizations and the  peoples of the Member States take towards it. I feit  that it was for the Secretariat to take the initiative  in changing those attitudes where they were not favour-  able, and to discover the true views of all these part-  ners of ours in the work in which we are engaged. My  travels have taken me away from the office a good  deal and I have sometimes been worried by the pro-  problem of how exactly I should apportion my time,  The balance, I believe, will be about right if the  Conference shouid choose to approve the budgetary  implications involved in my having two Assistant  Directors-General.
(32) One great effort of the year has been to give the  programme now in course of execution and the draft  programme for 1955-56 something of a new orienta-  tion, That orientation seemed, both to me and tothe  Board, to be necessary in order to make our pro-  gramme correspond more precisely with the views  of Member Governments, I think it is impossible  for the views of Member Governments to be adequate-  ly expressed solely at a General Conference, for the  procedural reason that, once the draft programme  is prepared, you cannot change it as much as many  of you would like to: there is simply not the time to  think out new proposals and for the governments re-  presented here to adjust their own thinking to the  new ideas. The Secretariat and the Board have in-  evitably to face the Conference with something of a  fait accompli. That is not altogether desirable, and  I believe that there should be more consultation with  Member States in the formative stage of the pro-  gramme, That is one of the outstanding lessons I  have learnt in the past sixteen months, I shall not  discuss the programme at this time, but I wish to  emphasize that its tendency to give more practical  - 60 -     MEETINGS  aid, establish more practical projects in Member  States, is something which I regard as being in accord  with the wishes of the governments and the peoples  whom you represent, In this work I have relied  heavily upon the views of the Executive Board, and  the redrafted programme which is before you is based  in considerable measure on the conclusions the Board  arrived at 1n its session of last March/April,
(33) The Secretariat has made certain adjustments  within the present programme in the light of this new  trend. The Board has been glad to approve such trans-  fers as required its approval. In connexion with the  reorganization of the programme, the Board has asked  me to call attention to one slight misuse of termino-  logy in our Report for 1953, in which we referred to  the "decentralizing' of the programme. That word  is not very well chosen, but what we meant by it was  not règionalization, but rather spending more of our  money on practical projects in individual Member  States and in groups of Member States which are co-  operating in some kind of a common project, I have  already referred to the fact that one of the corner -  stones of our policies this year has been an effort to  be frank with Member Governments; another has  been our effort to be as responsive as possible tothe  wishes and needs of Member States. I have been able  to clear up many misunderstandings, to improve  many of our procedural routines, for Member States  have been frank with me in telling me of things which  appear to me to be wrong or not quite as well as they  might be. We are trying also to devise better means  of executing our work plans, to use our travel money  to the best advantage, including the use of staff on  home leave to do work for the Organization en route.  We are trying hard to integrate the ideas of Member  States at all stages in the programme development  and in the execution of the work plans of the Organi-  zation, I can report with pride that in our co-opera-  tion with the United Nations and the United Nations  family of organizations, and in our relations with  other intergovernmental organizations, particularly  the Organization of American States, and with the  Council of Europe, and also in informal conversations  with the Arab League, we have arrived in a number  of instances at a better understanding and more fruit-  ful measures of co-operation. I recently signed, and  the Board has approved, a new agreement with the  Organization of American States concerning Patz-  cuaro, the Fundamenta: Education Centre for Latin  America. ! have recently signed an informal under-  standing with the Director of the International Labour  Orgar.zation concerning a problem of technical edu-  cation that has plagued the two Organizations for  years. I believe that the spirit of co-operation is  bearing good fruit for us and, I hope, for the other  organizations, and I must report to you that I found  a wonderful spirit of co-operation in every one of  them without exception,
(34) I should like to report also that, in my opinion,  the non-governmental organizations are a tremendous  source of support for the work of Unesco, I have had  very frank and friendly meetings with groups of : e-  presentatives of non-governmental organizations. I  have discussed the project for the draft programme  at various stages with them and I found them immen-  sely co-operative, They do not use these opportuni-  ties to exert pressure on the Secretariat for individual   PLENARY  and specialized interests, they use them as genuine  opportunities to help the Organization think out its  programme, think out its problems <f improving  its programme and of getting that programme  understood.
(35) Another important objective of the past year, in  the pursuit of which I am glad to report considerable  progress, is the development of the group spirit - a  spirit of unity and co-ordination within the Secreta-  riat itself. Certain controversies between myself  and the Staff Association of the Organization may  have obscured the fact that ve-y fine and fruitful de-  velopments are going forward in two important  particulars, One of these is what I would call the  democratic management of the Secretariat with its  many meetings of Department Directors and Chiefs  of Services and Bureaux, to discuss the common  problems facing the Organization. These discussions  include administrative matters, questions of diplo-  macy, problems of the programme, questions of re-  lations with National Commissions and so forth, 1  have found the Directors and Chiefs eager to expand  and develop this method of running the Secretariat.  I do not mean that we have developed a system by which  the Director-General gets rid of his responsibilities,  I mean that in the exercise of his responsibilities  the Director-General is getting advice from  his colleagues, and cases are fewer in which the  Director-General has to take a decision that does  not reflect the feeling of his colleagues. The second  aspect is the development of good relations with the  Staff Association, and I can report progress in that  regard also, although, as I say, that progress is  somewhat obscured by controversy over matters  which have attracted a good deal of public interest,
(36) This leads me to a discussion of one other pro-  blem before I close this speech, the problem of the  staff, the Staff Regulations and the relations of the  Organization with persons of American nationality.  I wish to explain this to you quite candidly, because  there is much too much misunderstanding of the facts.  The facts, briefly stated, are these: Unesco's Exe-  cutive Board in 1947 adopted a resolution to the  effect that the Director-General should not appoint  members of the international staff without previously  securing the views of the applicant's Member Govern-  ment. There have been a few, but only a few, ins-  tances in which the Director-General has not carried  out this mandate of the Executive Board, In imple-  mentation of this mandate the Organization agreed in
1953 to consider reports from the United States Gov-  ernment concerning present employees and new ap-  plicants for positions. The question was debated at  the extraordinary session of the General Conference  and the Conference took no exception to the arrange-  ments made. Unesco has lived up to its side of these  arrangements and what the United States Govern-  ment has done is in full accord with them. Before
1 received reports on certain individuals who are  present employees, I found that these employees did  not enjoy my full confidence because they had re-  fused to cc-operate with the United States Govern-  ment in the execution of the arrangements which  Unesco had made with that Government, And the  reasons they gave me in writing for not doing so  were not deemed by me to be adequate and convin-  cing. That posed the problem for me as to what I  - 61 -     MEETINGS 11-4  should do in regard to these individuals. I found that  I had the power, under the Staff Regulations, torefuse  to renew contracts when they expired, without giving  any reason whatsoever. 1 therefore announced to  these staff members (four of them, whose contracts  are due to expire soon) that I did not have confidence  in them of the sort that is required by the Constitu-  tion of the Organization and the Staff Regulations for  renewal of contracts, and hence that 1 did not intend  to renew their individual contracts. This notice was  given at the same time that notice was given to other  staff members that their contracts would be renewed.  In other words, the notice was a matter of routine,  I did not have to give any reason at all. However, I  do not think that the Director-General ought to exer-  cise that power, but should give reasons why he does  not renew a contract, and I, personally, shall always  be willing to do so, The four cases were referred to  the Appeals Board of Unesco, which has no power to  give a final decision in these matters, but orly an  advisory opinion, and the Appeals Board, I have been  notified in the last few days, has advised that the  reasons which I gave, being subject to scrutiny when  actually given, were inadequate. I have not yet dealt  with that opinion because I have not yet had the time  to read it. There are three other persons in the  same category as these four, except that they have  indeterminate contracts; that means that they are  permanent employees of the Organization, The ques-  tion then arises: is the reason "loss of confidence  in integrity" a sufficient ground for dismissal? I  have decided that it is not, Under the Staff Regula-  tions, the relevant power would be the power to find  the individuals guilty of misconduct or, rather, of  unsatisfactory conduct, which in the United Nations  is interpreted (the same terms being used as are in  the Regulations) as not including unsatisfactory  service, but only misconduct, Unsatisfactory service  is another concept irrelevant to the facts of this  situation, for all these people have given satisfactory  service, that is, the work they do is said by their  supervisors to be satisfactory or better than  satisfactory,
(37) Now here is where I come into conflict with the  United States of America. The United Staies of Ame-  rica interprets the Staff Regulations to mean that I  do have the power in the given circumstances to dis-  miss the three persons. This is a question of law, a  question of interpretation of the Staff Regulations. I  myself think that there is a case to be made out for  the United States' position, and I hope this Confer-  ence will carefully consider the merits of these two  points of view in a spirit of amity, and will recognize  the fact that on both sides we are trying to bereason-  able and we are trying to do what is right. 1 have had  many discussions with the United States Government  on this question and'l am sure that the issue is simply  one of what powers the Director-General has. In  case of doubt, doubt in my own mind as to my powers  in dealing with staff members, I would much rather  decide the matter in favour of the staff member,  because, unless we can create a feeling of confidence  that the Director-General is not going to act  illegally and is not going to act in a way that is  legally questionable, it will be impossible to develop  the kind of spirit, the kind or loyalty, the kind  of international civil service concept which I
11-4 PLENARY  think must be one of our first duties to develop.
(38) I have taken the time to state this problem be-  cause I have talked to a number of delegations and I  find that they have become confused regarding it. I  have proposed amendments to the Staff Regulations  which will go before the Administrative Commission  and serve either to clarify the legal situation, or to  change it if it is found that 1 have no powen to act in  cases when 1 have lost confidence in an employee's  integrity, My proposal to amend the Staff Regula-  tions was not conceived for the purpose of dealing  with the American cases, 1 was of opinion before  these cases arose that the Staff Regulations needed  amendment and I should be in favour of the amend-  ment even if these cases did not exist, I have  proposed this and other amendments, which are  contained intwo papers before you, in order to bring  our Staff Regulations into line with those of the United  Nations and, 1f you should approve these amendments,  they would be in line with the Staff Regulations of the  United Nations except in one or two particulars that  are a special problem of our own and are unrelated  to the problem of the United States personnel.
(39) I refer now to the last question that | am going  to mention, the problem of geographical distribution.  I mention that subject although I do not wish to go  into it at this time. In this case I do recommend  action which 1» not in accord with the United Nations  Regulations.
(40) I am making this report to youwith a perfectly  clear conscience. I have no scruples of conscience  about anything I have done in regard to our employees.  There has heen no pressure from a Member State,  nor have I taken any action for political reasons, I  have acted solely on the basis of an unclouded view  of what the Regulations provide and of what under the  Regulations is in the interest of the Organization.
(41) One last word. The Report is planned on lines  which I would propose, generally, to follow in the  future. Hence ! would welcome the comments of de-  legations on the plan of the Report. 1 shall try to  carry out in future Reports the recommendations that  Sir Ronald has reported on behalf of the Executive  Board.
(42) In concluding, I wish to offer thanks to my staff.  They have worked with me in the past year in a won-  derful spirit of harmony and co-operation. The work  recorded here is mostly their work rather than my  own, I should also like to say that the Secretariat  from top to bottom is here at this Conference to give  you honest answers to your questions, to take no  part in political combinations, in lobbying, or in  efforts to thwart your wishes, If you fina any of  them doing that, 1 shall consider that they not only  have lacked integrity, but that they have been guilty  of misconduct.  GENERAL DISCUSSION OF THE REPORT BY THE DIRECTOR-  GENERAL
(43) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Svanish):
1 call upon Professor Photiades, the delegate of  Greece,
(44) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) (Translation from  the French): Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen,    MEETINGS  as we pay our tribute to the memory of José Artigas,  we are glad to see for ourselves, in this place, that  the wishes of the illustrious founder of Uruguay, who  recommended to his compatriots "the union of great  courage with intellectual progress", are being ful  filled in enterprises as noble as they are successful.  The kind invitation we have received has more than  earned the greetings which it is my pleasant and my  bounden duty to convey, on behalf of my country and  my delegation, to the Government and the people of  Uruguay.
(45) The choice of Montevideo as the headquarters  of the Science Co-operation Office for the Western  Hemisphere, the generous part this fine capital has  played, among other things, in the advancement of  primary education; and the fact that we are meeting  in this Parliament building to strengthen the intel-
1 ectual bonds uniting our company - all these are  tokens of a whole-hearted co-operated which quickens  our sense of gratitude. What an advance this eighth  session of the Conference marks over previous years!  I remember the efforts we all made at Mexico City  in 1947 on behalf of the Spanish language, without  which, we said, there could be no true intellectual  co-operation, and the progress we have made in this  matter gives us hope of wider understanding at this  eighth session of our General Conference,
(46) Commonsense, that estimable quality which so  strongly marks the views expressed by our Latin  American colleagues, will be a constant guide to all  of us who are slowly but surely rising above purely  political controversies and are advancing steadily to-  wards a deeper universal understanding of the real  interests of man and his society. Tolerance should  surely encourage us to consider the opinions of others  without prejudice or bias, for to do so is surely to  obey the essential principles of the Constitution. May  the progress already achieved be thus continued and  consolidated. There are good auguries that the dele-  gations we are welcoming in our midst on this occa-  sion for the first time are inspired by the same desire  for sincere co-operation and the same readiness for  mutual understanding.
(47) Speaking now to you, Dr, Evans, my old colleague  and friend, whose efforts I have followed during your  travels, I wish to thank you and congratulate you, to-  gether with your colleagues and all the members of  the Executive Board - and first and foremost its  Chairman, Sir Ronald Adam - for preparing the new  two-year programme, for the way it is set out, for  its clarity, and for the co-ordination it betokens of  Unesco's efforts with those of the sister organizations  in the United Nations family. These achievements  have certainly given us a clearer picture of the aims  we are pursuing together. But we feel, none the less,  that further efforts must be made to follow up those  which were first made in Florence.
(48) We are particularly pleased with the idea of more  liberal assistance to students, and with the decision  to include education for living in a world community  among the main fields of activity of our Organization,  We hope that the report on education for living in a  world community will be studied by the Programme  Commission with all the attention it deserves. At  three sessions of the General Conference, we  have pleaded for young people and we are parti-  cularly pleased therefore to note that, barely a week  - 62 -   PLENARY  ago, the head of the Government of the French Re-  public, speaking at Lille, referred to eminently wise  measures for the assistance of these young people,  who have been ao ill served for nearly 40 years past.  We believe that, in this part of the programme, we  are complying with ideas which have bee. expressed  at many conferences, ideas which were voiced by  Mr. Attlee and by representatives of the 200 univer-  sities which took part in the celebration of the fifth  centenary of Glasgow University in 1951, and were  referred to by Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth the  Queen Mother, at Columbia University, during the  ceremonies this year in commemoration of its se-  cond centenary. We are convinced that we are thus  helping to build defences of peace in the minds and  hearts of the young.
(48) We shall give the fullest support to the deve-  lopment of fundamental education, We have seen for  ourselves in Egypt how great has been the encourage-  ment in this field provided by our previous General  Conferences,
(50) The development of research in the natural  sciences, the establishment of science co-operation  offices in Asia, and the work planned in connexion with  the applied social sciences, foreshadow a time of hope  which should give us extensive opportunities for sub-  sequent development ‘ve trust that the International  Council of Sciertitic Unions, which is one of the  mainstays of unesco, will be allotted a larger share  of the budgst, Again, my country is very well satis-  fied with the work of the Department of Cultural Ac-  tivities, which has given us such an impressive out-  line of what it intends to do; but we would also like  another of the mainstays of the Organization - the  International Council for Philosophy and Humanistic  Studies - to receive yet more assistance. The acti-  vities of this Department and the steps it has taken,  particularly this year, for promoting the use of  museums for educational purposes, will be of in-  creasing interest to our compatriots. While, in the  cultural field, in the broadest sense of the term, it  is still difficult to achieve agreement on certain  matters bilaterally, the procedure that we follow,  and which we consider to be the best, will naturally  be to seek understanding on a multilateral basis in  order to safeguard those cultural freedoms which  after the passage of centuries still illumine a civi-  lization which succeeding ages have recognized as  having been the first.
(51) Finally, I believe that some of the meetings in  which we were kindly invited to take part by the  Chairman of the Executive Board have produced  good practical results, I have in mind the experi-  mental study of the preparation and execution of the  programme with special reference to the use of the  time of Unesco officials. Even if, statistically  speaking, this experiment produces only approxi-  mate results, we shall be more than satisfied, Ex-  penditure can in fact be justified to the man in the  street by showing the time spent on particular acti-  vities meeting the real and varied needs of our  Member States. Moreover, the allocation of Unes-  co's benefits cannot be made contingent upon the  contributions of the individual Members but should  be determined by the fundamental needs of the great  company we constitute in educational, scientific and  cultural matters.  - 63 -     MEETINGS 11-4
(52) Our goal is the attainment of peace by a more  effective union among our Member States based upon  the spirit of good, the spirit of which Dr, Radhakrish-  nan spoke to us in the inspiring address he gave at  the opening of this Conference, We would thank him  once again for watching over Unesco so untiringly -  as untiringly as that other great labourer of our early  days whose loss has affected us so deeply, the first  Chairman of our Executive Board, that great Cana-  dian Victor Doré.
(53) We are glad to find that, after the concentration  of the programme which was begun in Florence in
1950, more practical methods are enabling us, for  the future, to determine more accurately the level of  the budget which the two responsible organs - the Ex-  ecutive Board and the Secretariat - anticipate will be  necessary. It is to be hoped that confidence of our  respective peuples in Unesco will assert itself in  future by its being made possible for the results of  the Organization's activities to be appreciated by the  humblest of our citizens as well as by our press and  information services.
(54) May the immediate future fulfil the hopes we  cherished in 1942 at the Conference of Allied Minis-  ters of Education, and may our 72 Member States be  able to celebrate the tenth birthday of this Organiza-  tion with enthusiasm, and with good grounds for sa-  tisfaction. May we at this time keep in our hea “ts  the spirit and the hopes which inspired our General  Conference in London in 1945, and also be comforted  by the realization that we are now nearer the goal we  set ourselves on behalf of our peoples.
(55) It is our hope that this Amphictyony - this Con-  ference - may lead us all towards a Peace more  worthy of us, a Peace for civilized men and women,
(56) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call upon the delegate of Sweden,
(57) Mr. DUERING (Sweden) (Translation from the  Spanish): Mr. President, ladies ard gentlemen, may  I begin by conveying the cordial greetings of my  country to the Government and people of Uruguay,  who have given us such a friendly welcome, and by  saying how delj jhted we are that this session of the  General Confei nce 1s taking place in this beautiful  city by the sea.
(58) The Swedish Government has followed the pro-  gress of Unesco over the past years with some con-  cern. The Report, submitted jointly for the first  time this year by the Director-General and the Exe-  tive Board, shows, however, that the Organization  has gone steadily forward and that very useful work  has been done, The programme outlined in the bud-  get document for 1955-56 is, in general, a good  programme, based on sound principles. As  regards its general trend, we are pleased to see that  some of the desires previously expressed have now  been carried out, It would perhaps not be true to  say that it is, in substance, a new programme, since  more than 80 per cent of the projects are already  familiar to us, but its presentation is new and, in  this respect, very consider .>5le progress has certain-  ly been made.
(59) The programme has been divided into  a programme of general, continuing  activities and a special programme
11-4 PLENARY  of projects which are to be limited in duration, In  general, we approve the principles cn which the divi-  sion has been made, but we think that a number of  questions still need further consideration before a  fair and perfectly satisfactory balance can be achieved  between the two divisions, There seems to be some  danger that the division into two parts may lead to a  reduction in the established service activities of the  Organization, In the introduction to the programme,  which is based on the report of the Executive Board  on the remodelling of the future programme, we  think we discern a tendency to undervalue Unesco's  activities in connexion with international co-opera-  tion, which are, so to speak, the fourdation of the  whole building.
(60) While the international organizations of special-  ists in various fields have increased in numbers,  partly as a result of Unesco's own work, and, at the  same time, have come to take a more and more  important part in the Organization's activities, the  appropriations for these organizations in the present  proposed programme and budget seem somewhat  parsimonious, One matter calling for immediate  attention, for instance, is the fact that the subven-  tion to‘the World Confederation of Organizations of  the Teaching Profession, an organization which is  really extremely important to Unesco, has been cut  to a third of the amount that the Confederation is at  present receiving.
(61) It must be made clear that aid to international  scientific co-operation, which is the main feature  of the general programme, is one of the fundamen-  tal conditions for enabling Unesco to carry out the  programme of special activities, That aid there-  fore cannot be reduced without harm to Unesco  itself. It may be true that this part of Unesco's  programme is chiefly of interest, for the moment,  to a comparatively small group of Member States,  but we must not forget that today the development of  science and technology is going forward at an  increasing rate throughout the world and that there-  fore co-operation among scientific organizations will,  in the long run, be extremely important even to the  Member States which are now more interested in  Unesco's special activities, Moreover, the number  of Member States is growing, with a consequent ex-  tension of the opportunities for joint action, Even  though some arguments can be advanced for stabili-  zing aid to international organizations at the level of  the present budget, it will be necessary, in the long  run, to reckon on quite considerable increases inthe  appropriations even in this part of the budget. It is  therefore necessary that at the next session of the  General Conference, at latest, there should be a dis-  cussion of the principles governing subventions to  international non-governmental organizations.
(62) Owing to the admission of new Member States,  we are now in the happy position of being able, with-  out increasing the present annual contributions of the  other Member States, to command resources approx-  imately twenty per cent larger than in the current  two-year period, There are very cogent reasons for  accepting the higher budgetary level proposed by the  Director-General, The rise in the number of Member  States is extending Unesco's field of activity very  materially and entails greater expenditure. Asthings  are, it seems reasonable that Unesco should gradually  - 64 -     MEETINGS  adopt the United Nations practice with regard towork-  ing languages. This, too, implies increasing costs.  But the main reason is that the more costly alterna-  tive will enable Unesco to achieve much more through  the action programme with the same administrative  divisions and staff. We also believe that the staff of  the Secretariat has now gained so much experience  that !t may be said to be ready to undertake a bigger  programme,
(63) We are fully aware that, if the alternative of the  "higher budgetary level" is supported at this juncture,  we shall in fact be committed for four years to come,  We note that the Director-General has, very wisely,  set aside such considerable sums for the 1857-58  budget, by cautious calculation of the annual contri-  butions, that, until 1858, Unesco will be able gra-  dually to extend its programme activities without  needing to make larger demands on the governments  of Member States, We suppose that, before the end  of this four-year period, the programme of Unesco  will be generally reviewed so that Member States can  make up their minds about the question of the future  budget of the Organization. We are convinced that  some such system will, in the long run, be not only  desirable but necessary.
(64) If, therefore, we approve this increase in the  total budget figure, we have to consider the question  of how the money is to be used, Thus the question is  bound up with the remodelling of the programme.
(65) We consider that the programme now proposed  meets three long-standing desires of Member States.  An attempt has obvinusly been made to secure greater  concentration, and it is stated that the projects are  carefully planned and prepared. 1 am very glad to  express my satisfaction with this statement of prin-  ciples and I hope that it will serve as a guiding star  and rule of conduct to the Secretariat in all its work.
(66) Moreover, the Secretariat has adopted as a prin-  ciple the oft-repeated demand that projects should be  planned in relation to present needs and should meet  the desires actually expressed by the Member States.  This, too, is very satisfactory and it is to be hoped  that these principles are strictly observed in the  present rrogramme. There are still many alloca-  tions of funds which are not based on the real wishes  of Member States.
(67) Speaking generally, it must be said that there  are still a number of small extravagances or items  of expenditure in the programme left over from the  time when we were trying to do everything. If there  is one chapter of the budget in which this is particu-  larly remarkable, it is the Mass Communication  chapter. It would seem that the General Conference  should devote special attention to the question of the  organization, programme and objects of that Depart-  ment,
(68) In the present programme, there are allocations  in each Department for purposes which are no doubt  excellent in themselves, but, in each particular case,  the amounts allotted are quite inadequate for the aims  in view, If we have to choose between ten projects  in which we can achieve half of what we set out  to do, and five projects for which adequate ap-  propriations can be made if the remaining projects  are struck out completely, I shall have no he-  gitation in recommending the second alternative.
(69) I wish to lay special emphasis on the need for   PLENARY  Unesco to exercise the closest control over the publi-  cations brought out by the Organization in its name.  Unesco is represented to the world at large by its  publications, and readers, who are often experts in  the matters discussed, naturally judge the standard  of Unesco's work by the quality of its publications,  In all Unesco publications, and particularly in those  of a scientific character, the Organization must re-  tain the right to insist on the highest standards.
(70) This means, among other things, that all the  reports submitted must be most carefully checked,
1 am very pleased to congratulate the Executive Board  on its recommendation to the Director-General that  the Publications Committee of the Secretariat be  given greater powers in regard to the review of  publications plans and the revision of manuscripts  before these are approved for publication,
(71) I now come to the question of the direction in  which Unesco's programme should be expanded.  Many good ideas are set forth in the excellent report  of the Executive Board, to which I have just referred,  and I hope that we shall have an cpportumty of dis-  cussing them in greater detail. On this occasion, 1  shall simply suggest certain major considerations.  In one respect the report is a little disappointing.  Although there are certain statements of principle,  there is no firm declaration of the overriding im-  portance of the activities designed to further inter-  national understanding. Too little importance also  seems to me to be accorded to the part played bythe  international exchange of information. The defini-  tion given by the Executive Board seems to me to be  very narrow, An Organization such as Unesco ought  not to limit the scope of its own activities in this way.
(72) We hope most earnestly that any increase in  Unesco's financial resources will not be used to add  still more to the number of projects but will be de-  voted to a few undertakings truly related to the needs  of the time.
(73) In the opinion of the Swedish Government, Unes-  co's most important function is to assist, by foster-  ing co-operation, in raising the standard of education,  science and culture throughout the world. In the pre-  sent state of the world, the Swedish Government  thinks it fitting that such co-operation should be  largely directed to carrying out work undertaken in  agreement with the so-called underdeveloped  countries, This does not mean that Unesco should  give an entirely new direction to its programme of  technical assistance, The Swedish Government  certainly considers that the United Nations Expanded  Programme of Technical Assistance, in which Unesco  also has a very important part to play, is making a  very much greater moral contribution to internation-  al fellowship than could be guessed from the finan-  cial amount of the aid supplied. This programme  and similar endeavours to raise standards through-  out the world and, in general, the broad and soundly  conceived co-operation now established between the  industrialized countries and the underdeveloped ter-  ritories seem to us to be the most promising road to  peaceful coexistence and lasting peace. My country  considers that increased aid and technical develop-  ment - taking this term in its broadest connotation -  are the most urgent requirements in the present state  of the world. As an indication of the importance it  attaches to the principles on which this attitude is    MEETINGS 11-4  based, Sweden, which last year increased its contri-  bution to technical assistance by 25 per cent, has just  made a further 25 per cent increase in its contribu-  tion, bringing it to a total of three million Swedish  crowns, This is not a very large sum in itself but,  considering the size of our population, it represents  a contribution, by way of taxes from the Swedish  people, which is fully equivalent, as regards purchas-  ing power, to the contribution that the allocation of
18 million dollars asked for by President Eisenhower  would have represented for the taxpayers of the United  States of America. Apart from this, we, like many  other countries, have bilateral programmes, to fi-  nance which we are now launching an appeal covering  the whole country.
(74) But it is extremely important to maintain a rea-  sonably clear line of demarcation between the expan-  ded programme and Unesco's own programme,  Unesco should not on any account become merely a  branch of the Technical Assistance Board, Unesco's  own budget should be k=pt for its own basic work,  without which the Unitec Nations programme cannot  be accomplished, First priority should be given to  those projects which are designed to provide the basis  for an enduring improvement of the standard of culture.  I will only mention, as examples, Unesco's fundamen-  tal education centres and the projects for the produc-  tion of reading materials for people who have just  learnt to read. But in school teaching, popular  education, higher education and the promotion of  scientific research, as well, Unesco has the very  important task of organizing and encouraging co-  operation and guiding endeavours, with a full  understanding of the aim in view, towards the solution  of urgent problems in the underdeveloped countries.  It is important to emphasize the principle that all  countries should have exactly the same opportunities  of receiving aid, When the question of whether or not  aid should be granted is being considered, the deciding  criterion must be evidence of need and not arguments  suggested by the political considerations prevailing  in any particular body of opinion. In this co-opera-  tion with the underdeveloped countries, Unesco should  act, first and foremost, as a mediator and a clearing  house of information and advice; it should establish  contacts and foster the development of new and better  working methods. 1 have often compared Unesco to  a factory in which the tools of international cultural  co-operation are produced, and this, I believe, gives  a true idea of Unesco's most important mission.
(75) A very large number of the items appearing in  the proposed programme and budget under the head-  ing of Technical aid to Member States , and amount-  ing in all to over fifty per cent of the higher budgetary  level, relate to the activities I have just mentioned.  In point of fact, they are concerned more with laying  the foundations for future concerted action than with  aid as such, and it would have been better if this had  been made clear in the programme by some other  heading or title, such as "Co-operation with Member  States for special purposes" or something of that sort.
(76) One matter which the Swedes consider to be  urgent, and in which we are fully prepared to co-  operate, is Unesco's programme of adult education.  This is naturally connected with the fact that in  Sweden we have had wide experience of the import-  ance of adult education in developing a society truly  - 65 -
11-4 PLENARY  imbued with democratic principles, We note that  Unesco, with the assistance of a number of distin-  guished experts, has now given a new trend to its  adult education programme, and we are prepared to  co-operate in every possible way in this programme,  Next summer, Denmark, Norway and Sweden are  jointly to organize an international seminar, with  Unesco's assistance, and we very much hope that  this seminar will help to develop interest in adult  education and in the Scandinavian Folk High Schools  as a most useful instrument for the development of  the people and society.
(77) I should also like to say a few words about a  matter referred to in the Introduction to the proposed  programme and budget. The programme of Unesco  is always based on what the Director-General has  called the diversity of disciplines, and the Secreta-  riat is organized on much the same lines, There  are also divisions in the Secretariat which are or-  ganized according to the nature of the work being  done, such as the Exchange of Persons Service and  various other units, As we stated in the discussion  of this topic two years ago, the Swedish delegation  considers that there would be great advantages in  organizing the whole Secretariat so that the struc-  ture of the departments is determined by the type of  work to be done, Since the Director-General calls  this programme a transitional programme, it seems  probable that he has considered the possibility of a  more radical reorganization. The preparation of the  programme and the organization of the Secretariat  are closely inter-connected, so that it is difficult to  achieve a more rational programme structure with-  out a fundamental reorganization of the Secretariat,  The Swedish delegation still thinks that such a re-  organization would increase efficiency and make it  easier to co-ordinate and concentrate more or less  parallel projects. This would give Unesco what we  called two years ago better aerodynamic lines,
(78) This programme 1s the fruit of a happy co-  operation between the Director-General and the Exe-  cutive Board and, from the reports of the meetings  with the Executive Board, it seems that the work  was very difficult, We therefore have the best of  reasons for offering our sincere congratulations both  to the Director-General and to the Executive Board  on the results achieved. We also find a new note,  both in the introduction to the proposed programme  and budget and in the reports of the Director-Gene-  ral, which we think reflects a determination to build  up a truly co-operative spirit and a co-operative  approach in the Secretariat. We wish to state our  confidence in the Director -General's personnel po-  licy and we consider that the accepted principles  applying to the staff of the United Nations shouldalso  apply to the Unesco Secretariat. We hope that the  same spirit of co-operation will inform the relations  between the Secretariat and the representatives of  the governments of the Member States, because,  when all is said and done, the Secretariat is theser-  vant of some 70 Member States; we are delighted to  acknowledge the inspired effort and the wealth of  constructive new ideas it supplies - though it some-  times gives us some cause for uneasiness - but its  main object is, nevertheless, to serve the Member  States and to carry out the resolutions of the  General Conference,  - 66 -     MEETINGS
(79) May I, in conclusion, as a representative of a  small nation standing midway between the great  powers and whose only desire is to further a "gnod  neighbour" policy, make a modest appeal for good-  will,
(80) Unesco is a governmental organization and it is  pointless to close our eyes to the fact that the  attitudes we adopt and the decisions we take are  sometimes influenced by political considérations und  arguments, We have come to this hospitable and highly  civilized country from the four corners of the world,  from different climates, with different backgrounds  and mentalities, laden with preconceived ideas and  projudices of various sorts, We have great difficul-  ties to overcome, and principally that of reaching  agreement. Let us remember as often as possible  that we have come together to carry out a great task  which is of interest to us all - the fostering of under-  standing among the peoples of the world and the  promotion of culture,
(81) Let us, as Unesco delegates, set an example of  enlightened though! of the way to live in a world com-  munity, seeking wherever possible to lay aside poli-  tical rivalries and considerations of national prestige,  and let us seek, realistically and practically, tosolve  our problems in friendship, brotherhood and harmony,
(82) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):
1 call upon the delegate of Iran.
(83) Mr. RAADI (Iran) (Translation from the French):  Mr. President, the distinguished colleagues who  have already spoken have paid an enthusiastic tribute  and expressed their warm gratitude to the Govern-  ment and people of the Republic of Uruguay. May 1  take this opportunity of endorsing their expressions  of gratitude on behalf of the delegation of Iran? I  would add that, although we have come from a far  distant country, we feel at home in this great and  splendid land. A Persian poet has said: ''My friend  is very close to me despite the strange fact that I  am so far from him", Indeed, though oceans seem  to divide the countries of the East from South Ame-  rica, there are many similarities and affinities in  their ways of life and aspirations.
(84) I venture now to put forward certain comments  on the Report of the Director-General and on the  proposed programme and budget.
(85) You undertook a heavy task, Sir, when our Or-  ganization was passing through one of the most cri-  tical periods of its life. You have made a beginning  in the execution of that task with the calm and caution  which are essential in such circumstances.
(86) Your Report shows that the change in the occu-  pant of the post of Director-General has not affected  the implementation of the programme adopted by the  General Conference at its seventh session. We are  as pleased as you are at this fact, which we attribute  to your personal qualities, the loyalty of your col-  leagues, and the influence of your distinguished pre-  decessors, who laid a sound foundation for ensuring  continuity in the work undertaken since 1945,
(87) As you were elected in the period between two  sessions of the Conference, you have had to carry  out a programme which was not your own without  being able to give it the stamp of your own ideas, On  the other hand, those same circumstances have helped   PLENARY  you, to some extent, by giving you considerable time  to make a thorough study of the many problems of the  Organization which call for resolute, effective and  urgent treatment, The time has now come for you  to move on to the execution of projects and reforms  which you yourself have advocated and to take your  own measures, whose results will be assessed and  judged by future conferences. We shall judge you by  your deeds and we wish you every success,
(8e) Secondly, we note with satisfaction that, from  the time you took up your duties, you have travelled  widely to all parts of the world in order to see 'ocal  conditions for yourself. You returned from your  travels with the firm conviction that a new emphasis  was needed in future Unesco programme ., an em-  phasis which, while allowing Unesco's c ntinuing  activities of universal interest to develop in the nor-  mal way, would do more than has been done in the  past to soive the special problems of various regions  and to meet the immediate needs of certain groups  of Member States,
(89) The Executive Board supported you in your en-  deavours, and irdeed urged you to revise the first  draft of the programme as a preliminary to the pro-  posed reforms, because its consideration of .he  past history and future course of the Organization  had almost inevitably led it to the same conclusions,
(90) This transitional programme has the advantage  of following the basic principle of the remodelled  programme - the division of activities into two  groups - without breaking sharply with the past.
(91) The delegation of Iran considers that the ex-  cellent introduction to the proposed programme and  budget shows a sound and realistic approach which is  in line with the fundamental aims of Unesco. We are,  of course, in favour of this approach but we have the  following observations to make.
(92) The division of the programme into two distinct  parts is undoubtedly an ingenious expedient, a n2-  cessary preliminary step, but, for the moment, it  simply gives us a frame, whose usefulness will ul-  timately depend upon the value of its content, We  hope that the content will improve quickly enough,  as the result of your endeavours, to give us, in1957  and 1958, a well-balanced whole, reflecting the as-  pirations of education, science and culture both at  the universal level and at the level of the actual needs  of Member States,
(93) Moreover, the division of the programme can-  not produce good results unless the machinery for  relations between the Organization and Member  States, and the structure and working methods of the  Secretariat, are reformed; this work of reform is  difficult but absolutely necessary,
(94) The criteria at present applying to Unesco's  relations with governments and National Commis-  sions are unfortunately, in most cases, the product  of hasty generalizations which do not always reflect  the facte of the situation. The same comment ap-  plies to the definitions and standards adopted for de-  termining how regional activities are to be organized  and carried out. It is obvious that, as regards the  activities of worldwide interest included in the pro-  gramme, Unesco must, in general, follow a pre-  established - and almost a Cartesian - policy. On  the other hand, as regards relations with Member  States and national co-operating bodies, Unesco  - 67 -     MEETINGS 1-4  ought, we consider, to use every means of exploring  the ground and, at least for a time, to adopt a flexi-  ble, clear-sighted, empirical policy.
(95) Needless to say, such a task can be carried out  only by a Secretariat consisting of two types of spe-  cialists in proper proportions - those working, as in  the past, on continuing activities of universal interest,  and a larger group of specialists who, besides having  a sound educational, scientific or cultural background,  must be adequately informed about the social situation  and administrative and psychological conditions inthe  country or countries to which Unesco may wish to  give effective aid. If a country is to be given really  useful help, it is first necessary to know and under-  stand it, to know its needs and how urgent they are in  relation to one another; and sometimes to help it to  realize its immediate needs or to encourage it to  make them known so that they can be suitably met,  All this, though necessary, is not easy. It is a bold  undertaking and it is like a two-edged sword, which  we must be very careful to use wisely.
(96) Another very important step which should be in-  stituted as soon as possible is the alteration or,  rather, the improvement of the present system for  discussing and voting on the programme and budget.
(97) Experience has made it abundantly clear that  the long discussions at the General Conference on  the minor details of the budget, and the heated and  often confused debates on the budget estimates, item  by item and dollar by dollar, have not so far resulted  in any great saving to the Organization, nor in a  sounder policy nor in an appreciable prestige, More-  over, this method, when carried to the lengths with  which you are all familiar, does not appear to be en-  tirely in line with the spirit of Articles IV and IX of  the Constitution, even if it fulfils the letter of the  law. It is high time for the General Conference to  concern itself, first and foremost, with the basic  problems of education, science and culture, making  it its first duty, in accordance with the terms of  Article IV of the Constitution, to determine the poli-  cies and the main lines of work of the Organization  and to take decisions, after a thorough study, on the  intrinsic merits of the proposed projects. With re-  gard to the budget, we consider that, in future, the  General Conference should determine the general  structure, chapters and major items, leaving the  Director-General and the Executive Board fairly free  to act and take decisions on the best methods to em-  ploy and the best use of appropriations.
(98) We are firmly convinced that the best guarantee  that Unesco's resources ‘vill be wisely used lies not  in rigid budgetary regulations or the introduction of  new budget headings, but inthe sense of responsibility,  the professional integrity and the administrative  and organizing ability of the team of international  officials forming the Secretariat of Unesco.
(99) As regards future activities, we recommend,  for cogent reasons tliat we propose to explain later,  that an institute be set up under Unesco’s auspices  to provide a basic training for people in all countries  who intend to enter the international civil service,
(100) One advantage of this measure is that it would  achieve a rational union of the two criteria which  ought to govern the recruitment of staff for the United  Naticns and its Specialized Agencies - geographical  distribution and professional competence,
(101) We are also most anxious that an international  centre should be set up for the training of fundamen-  tal education specialists. Far from duplicating the  work of the regional fundamental education centres  already in existence or which are to be established,  such a centre would remedy a serious shortcoming  which arises from the fact that, in spite of their  urgent needs in this matter, many countries are un-  able, for linguistic, geographical or other reasons,  to take advantage of the work of the regional centres.
(102) Unesco will soon be ten years old, I am proud  and grateful that it was my lot to be present at the  birth of this Organization in 1945 and that I have had  the honour of serving it as the permanent delegate of  Iran and, since 1952, as a member of the Executive  Board, When I look back on the past, it seems to me  that the history of the successes and difficulties of  our Organization can be summed up in a few words.  The enthusiasm, the faith and the devoted service of  those who set up the Organization or who have worked  with it have enabled it to establish itself in inter-  national life. But, in the past years, there have  been three major factors thwarting its efforts and  hindering its full development. These factors are  inexperience, which is inseparable from youth;  failure to cover the whole world; and, finally, a  political atmosphere which has not been conducive to  international co-operation. Now, however, these  obstacles and difficulties are happily being removed.  The experience Unesco has acquired in the iast nine  years has brought it far on the way to maturi.y; the  admission of new members has just prepared :he  ground for worldwide co-operation; and, lastly. the  signs of a slackening of tension which are to be seen  on the political horizon are strengthening the hop?  and the possibility of a lasting peace. Unesco's time  has therefore come.
(103) As this Conference opens, circumstances are  favourable to a vigorous campaign against ignorance  and misunderstanding, a campaign which can no  longer be postponed, ‘or our excuses, though justi-  fied in the past, will no longer carry weight. Let us  bear this fact in mind. Let us realize the scope of  our new opportunitics and the range of our increase |  responsibilities, Let us rise above our political pr« -  judices in our search for a sound basis of unde stanc-  ing in intellectual and cultural affairs. Let us forget  the differences dividing us, for there are many values,  many aims, aspirations and hopes in which we are  united.
(104) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call apon the delegate of Haiti.
(105) Mr. LALEAU (Haiti) (Translation from the  French): Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the  history of the human race, from our prehistoric an-  cestor, at the mercy of forces which crushed him,  to the specialist on atomic fission, who can explain  and co trol those same forces, has been a ceaseless  process of creation, The greatness of an agency  concerned with the fate of man is directly propor-  tional not only to the quality of its programme and  the way it carries it out but also to the balance  which it succeeds in establishing between the  demands of reality and the commands of the ideal.
(106) Unesco is great because its subject-matter is  - 68 -     MEETINGS  Man and Man's growth, Across the frontiers, beyond  the different races and diverse civilizations, withtheir  frequently conflicting customs, amid the storms un-  leashed by nature and our passions, there is gradually  eme; ging the concept of a being that is evolving to-  wards perfection. Valéry has said that "L'Homme  est en project’ - "Man is still but a ketch of what he  might be" - and Francis Ponge repeats and emphasizes  "L'Homme est l'avenir de l'Homme" - "Man is the  future of Man".
(107) It is a slow process of evolution, going on  through the centuries as thought is formed, heartsare  moulded, and conscience emerges from a complex of  different factors - conscience which, slaying the wolf  in Man, will turn him from a predatory animal, to  whom physical strength is the greatest good, into a  being ready to co-operate with all those who, like  himself, yearn for freedom and justice.
(108) That is our purpose: to strive for this ideal,  and to begin the ascent by making understanding  easier, through the improvement of material condi-  tions, between peoples who comprehend their interests,  who have broken free of hampering superstitions and  have attained the certitude that the true fulfilment of  the individual and the community consists not in the  mad, sadistic exploitation of one by another but rather  in increased human solidarity.
(109) As I speak of this development, I am irresist-  ibly reminded of a small nation which has issued  heroically from slavery, and, through indescribable  sufferings, amid what was at first general hostility,  has painfully attained its present status, to which it  owes the honour of sitting in this illustrious company  and of having stood sponsor - in my own person - to  our Organization in London, one November morning  in 1945. And it was natural that this small nation  should have been among the first to respond to that  stirring appeal, for the principles of the infant Or-  ganization were the very foundation of its own  political ethics,
(110) I need not remind the pioneers of Unesco of the  unceasing efforts to achieve the liberation of man;  nor of the results ganed despite opposition, nor of  the hopes which those victories over day-to-day  hostility justify,
(111) At these meetings, once annual and now bien-  nial, we measure the progress made and draw each  time fresh strength to continue our march,
(112) May our work at this eighth session of the  General Conference be inspired by an irradiating  vision, the vision of mankind set free for ever from  distress and crime and reconciled at last beneath the  twofold sway of Justice and Peace,
(113) For one day, there must be, here below, a  little less misunderstanding and much more charity;  children and women must cease to weep, and the  young must no more shed their blood for causes  whose inner significance often escapes them and  which almost always come down to barren conflicts  between ideologies, stupid frontier incidents or  futile questions of prestige, We shall extinguish war  in the heart of man, and compel man's actions to  march in step with his dreams.
(114) Our delegation, following its own inclinations  no less than the instructions of its Government,  whose Head daily gives proof of his sense of solida-  rity, is determined, so far as its modest resources   PLENARY  permit, to work for the coming of those times so  longed for by men oi goodwill all the world over,  {115) I have been commissioned to bring you this  solemn assurance, strong in the conviction that  the policy pursued by our Organization in the things  of the mind and heart is the only possible one at the  present stage of civilization, and that it enables us  to hand on to our impatient followers the torch which  MEETINGS 1-5  was once passed to us by other hands, now fumbling  with age or from which life has departed...
(116) In conclusion, I am glad to state that my dele-  gation accepts the Report of the Director-General and  congratulates him on it most heartily,  The meeting rose at 6 p. m.  FIFTH PLENARY MEETING
15 November 1954 at 10.30 a.m.  President: Mr. ZAVALA MUNIZ (Uruguay)  CONTENTS  Communication by the President . . . PI + + 0 51 0 0 0 . 69  Discussion of the Director-General's Report (continued) :  Speeches by the delegates of Italy, Argentina, Japan, Chile,  Polan?, Norway, Thailand, Korea and the USSR ., . . . .. 69  COMMUNICATION BY THE PRESIDENT
(1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanisn):  The General Committee held a meeting this morning  and adopted the following decisions.
(2) As the Government of Venezuela has officially an-  nounced that it will not be represented at the present  session of the General Conference, and as that coun-  try held the chairmanship of the Headquarters Com-  mittee, the General Committee has invited the Nomi-  nations Committee to elect a new chairman,
(3) The General Committee has taken into account  the wide experience of Brazil in matters connected  with the Headquarters Committee, and would suggest  to the Nominations Committee that advantage be  taken of that delegation's special experience to ap-  point it to the chairmanship of the Headquarters Com-  mittee. In that case Brazil's seat as vice-president  of the Conference would become vacant. The  General Committee suggests to the Nominations Com-  mittee that another Latin American State might appro-  priately be placed on the list of vice-presidents. The  Nominations Committee will meet at 1.30 this after-  noon; the Headquarters Committee will meet after  thr: meeting of the Nominations Committee and will  later report to the Plenary Conference.
(4) The Secretariat informs me that 1t has received  from the Government of Cuba payment of the amount  of 1ts contribution required to entitle Cuba to vote at  the present session of the Conference. From this  moment, therefore, the delegation of Cuba enjoys full  voting rights.
(5) In accordance with the decision adopted by the  General Conference at the plenary meeting on Satur-  day morning, when reference was made to the partial  use of Russian as a working language at the present  session of the General Conference, the Secretariat  has made arrangements, starting today, for simul-  taneous interpretation from and into Russian in this  hall, Interpretation into Russian will be supplied by  the technical statf of the Soviet delegation until such  time as the Secretariat engages the rest of the staff    required in Montevideo. During the next few days  it is hoped to begin Russian interpretation in the other  rooms where the simultaneous system operates.
(6) The Chairman of the Administrative Commission  has announced that, beginning tomorrow (Tuesday)  morning, his Commission will examine item 9,31 of  the agenda: Draft Amendments to Article V of the  Constitution (Composition of the Executive Board).The  Commission will also consider the financing of the  budget and the report by the Contributions Committee,  starting on Wedrasday next.  DISCUSSION OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL'S REPORT  (continued)
(7) I now call upon the representative of Italy.
(8) Mr. BADINI CONFALONIERI (Italy) (Translation  from the French): ladies and gentlemen, it is diffi-  cult for me, as Head of the Italian delegation, when  rising to speak in Montevideo, and in this Palace, to  suppress the emotion I feel at the welcome which has  been given us by the Uruguayan people. There are  indissoluble links of blood and culture uniting my own  country with this nation, where one of the most famous  heroes of Italian unity won his spurs in the struggle  for freedom. Relatively small in numbers, but great  in spirit and in its love of democracy, the Uruguayan  nation seems to embody the 1deals of Unesco in its  own civilization, of which it.is rightly proud and  which it has built up in the greatest freedom and with  the generous help of other nations. May I be allowed,  Mr. President, though 1 may seem to you to be de-  parting from the agenda and perhaps causing some  embarrassment to you personally, to express here  once again the gratitude of the Italian delegation,
(9) Unescohas been passing through a crisis, Two years  ago this crisis reached a dramatic stage which is still  gravenonthe hearts and minds of most of you - a stage  when serious fears were entertained for its future.
(10) It may be that Unesco has weathered the storm,  as some authorities have claimed. But, though weare  - 69 -