v-1l ADMINISTRA  the Commission since it had no direct contact with  the General Conference.
(107) Mr. PRATY (Australia) asked whether the  proposal of the Guatemalan delegate was an  amendment to that of the United Kingdom delegate  or a substantive proposal.
(108) Mr. ARTHUR {Umted Kingdom) said that the  Commission had been asked to make recommend-  ations to the Plenary Conference on the financing  cf the budget, The Guatemalan delegate's proposal  appeared to be 1n direct opposition to that of the  United Kingdom delegation, and the suggested  submission to the Contributions Committee would  delay presentaticn of recommendations to the  Plenary Conference. He proposed that a decision  should be taken immediately.  TIVE     COMMISSION
(199) Mr. MAHZU (Assistant Director-General)  wondered how a special reserve fund could be set  up without a specific object. Moreover, it was  difficult to recommend that such a fund should be  used for any narticular project, Finally, the  Committee on Contributions could hardly make  recommendations on that subject - for which the  Prograrame and Budget Commission was responsible.  The proposal was vague, and serious doubts could  be ma-ntained as to the Contributions Committee's  competence in the matter,
(110) It was finally decided, on a motion of Mr,  FORSYTH (Mew Zealand), to adjourn the discussion  untii the following meeting,  The meeting rose at 7 p. m.  ELEVENTH MEETING
22 November 1950 at 10 aan.  ( harman  IRIBUTE TO THE MEMORY OF Mr de THIBAULT (OF THE  BELGIAN DLLEGATION)
(1) The CHAIRMAN said 1t was his painful duty to  announce the sudden death, in tragic circumstances,  of Mr. de Thibault, of the Belgian delegation.
(2) The Commission rose as a gesture of respect.
(3) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) expressed his  deizgation's appreciation of the gesture.  QUESTION RAISED BY THE ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON  PROGRAMME AND BUDGET IN COMENION WITH THE  DUTIES OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD
(4) The CHAIRMAN said that he had been asked by  the Commission to refer to the Executive Board,  through the General Committee, a question r.ised  by the Advisory Committee about ways and raeans of  reducing the burden on the Board. The General  Committee had said that the Director-General had  peen asked to prepare a report on the matter, also  that the question could more app.opriatzly be  referred to the new Board clected 1n accordance  with the recently adopted amendments to Article V  of the Constitution, The General Cornmittee would  take the necessary action to that end when the new  Board was in being.    - 562 -  Mr. BEEBY (New Zealand)  ITEM 9.3 OF REVISED AGENDA LEGAL QUESTIONS (document
8C, JUR- 2: Second Report. of the Legal Committee)
(5) Mr. BAUGNIET (Rapporteur of the Legal  Committee) stated that, at 11s meeting of 19 November
1654, the Legal Committee had completed the draft-  ing of amendments to Article V of the Constitution,  and of the alterations in Rules 95, 95a and 9% of the  Rules of Procedure of the General Conference which  were necessary as a result of the new arrangements.
(6) The Committee had agreed that thers was no  contradiction or opposition between those Rules as  amended and the Constitution or the Rules of  Procedure, and had no comments to make from a  substantive point of view,
(7) Regarding the wording, the Committee had  merely collated the texts in the three languages, and  had deleted the word "remodel" from paragraph C.13  of Article V,
(8) The Committee's Rapporteur then read out the  texts in question in their new form.
(9) Mr. SANDOVAL VALLARTA (Mexico), on behalf  of his delegation, proposed the adoption of the Legal  Committee's report.
(10) Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) said that he did not  consider the French word "portion" a particularly  legal expression, and suggested replacing it by the  word "durée".
(11) Mr, BAUGNIET (Rapporteur) explained that the  word had been used because it occurred in the   ADMINISTRATIVE  original text, He saw no objection tc replacing  it by "durée".
(12) Mr. FERNANDEZ MORENO (Argentina)  disagreed with the wording of paragraph 4, Article  V of the Constitution, as given by the Legal  Committee in its report (document 8C/JUR/2),  That passage mentioned only two possible occasions  when a substitute right be required for a member  of the Executive Board: the event of death or  resignation.
(13) Such provisions generally took into account the  possibility of physical or legal inability to serve,  but the texts submitted by the Legal Committee  made no mention of those eventualities,
(14) Mr. BAUGNIET (Rapporteur) replied thst that  aspect of the question had not been overlooked by  the Legal Committee.
(15) They had, however, come to the conclusion  that they were not entitled to make substantive  changes in the texts submitted to them, any more  than 1t was for the Administrative Commission to  propose amendments to the Constitution.
(16) Mr. Baugniet reminded the Comn:1ssion that  changes of the kind mentioned should take the form  of a proposal to amend the statutes of the  Organization, submitted with due notice.
(17) Mr. CARRERA MOLINA (Guate:nala) agreed  with the Argentine delegate.
(19) The CHAIRMAN said that, having considered  the matter most carefully, he would have to rule  that the change desired by the delegate of Argentina  would be a change of substance requiring three  months! prior notice and could not, therefore, be  discus-ed at that session où the Conference.  However, under Rule 106 of the Rules of Procedure,  the Commission could always decide, by a two-  thirds majority, that the proposal was one of form  and not of substance.
(20) Mr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America)  said that the point was to some extent covered by  Rule III, paragraph 11 (1) of the Rules of  Procedure of the Executive Board,
(21) Mr, FERNANDEZ MORENO (Argentina) did rot  believe that the question was cleared up by the  statement of the United States delegate. The Urated  States delegate had quoted a clause which applied to  temporary adniittance to meetings, but not to a  member unable to attend the Executive Board.  {22) In the view of the Argentine delegation, that  change in the Constitution was one of form and not  of substance and could therefore be considered  forthwith,
(23) Mr, HAGUIWARA (Japan) thought that the  wording of Article V, paragraph 3, which had ‘een  left unchanged, could be differently interpreted.
(24) He suggested that when its legal standing had  been completely changed, the Executive Board with    COMMISSION V-11  all its members newly elected could be considered  a completely new body, having no link with the old  one; and he asked whether, in that event, it would  not be more logical to conclude that the bar on re-  election only applied to consecutive terms of office  after reorganization, Or he asked, should the view  prevail that the old and the new Boards were in fact  linked, merely in respect of paragraph 3? In that  case, the members of the new Board could be  considered re-eligible, by virtue of the fact that a  member who had served on the old Board haa done  so in a personal capacity. In any case, it was  desirable that the Commission should adopt an exact  definition on the basis of a report by the Legal  Committee.
(25) Mr. BAUGNIET (Rapporteur) thought that the  purpose of paragraph 3 was to avoid a member's  serving on the Board too long.
(26) It would therefore seem that neither the new  method of nominating candidates nor the forthcoming  general election should affect tha! interpretation.
(27) Mr. HAGUIWA A (Japan) wanted the question  submitied to the Lega Committee in order that the  Commission might recs ive its report, if possible  before the Board held its elections and, in any case,  not later than the clcse of the present session of the  Conference.
(28) The amendments io Article V of the Constitution,  as given in document 8C/JUR/2, were then  approved as a whole by 45 votes to 6.
(29) Mr, MERMINOD (Switzerland) was surpr:sed  that a vote should nave been taker on the whole of  the amendments (o Article V of the Constitution,  before delegations had been given a further opportunity  to express their views on such an important question.
(39) He recalled that the Belgian, French and  Yugoslav delegations had already voiced their grave  .pprehensions at the increasingly political colour of  the Organization,  ‘31) If members of the Executive Board were to be  *orced to choose between theu responsibilities to  heir government and their responsibilities to  Unesco, the result would be to confront them with a  t -agic conflict of loyalties.
(32) Mr. Merminod also pointed out that, with  regard to the amendments to Article V of the  Constitution, both sides, 1.e., those who had voted  in favour and those who had voted against, had acted  in accordance with instructions from their govern-  ments. Did not that prove conclusively that the  change was ill-advised?
(33) In accordance with the proposal by Mr.  SANDOVAL VALLARTA (Mexico), seconded by  Mr. FERNANDEZ MORENO (Argentina), the  amendments to the Rules of Procedure for election  of members of the Executive Board (document
8C/JUR/2, page 2) were then adopted.  - 563 -   v-11 ADMINISTRATIVE  ITEM 9.4.4 OF THE REVISED AGENDA : CONTRIBUTIONS :  SCALE, CURRENCY AND COLLECTION OF CONTRIBUTIONS  OF MEMBER STATES. (documents 8C/ADM/31 and 3C/ADM/32)  (continued)
(34) ‘fhe CHAIRMAN recalled that, at the last  meeting, a Japanese amendment to paragraph 2 of  the draft resolution on page 5 of document
8C/ADM/31 had been put to the vote, and that the  result had been a tie. Under Rule 90 of the Rules  of Procedure, there would have to be an immediate  vote on the Japanese amendment and, unless there  was a majority in favour, it would be considered  rejected,
(35) Mr, JARAMILLO ARANGO (Colombia),  seconded by Mr, VILLALON CALDAMES (Chule),  proposed that discussion of the Japanese amendment  be reopened.
(36) The Colombian motion was put to the vote and  rejected by 42 votes to 4, with 2 abstentionc,
(37) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) regretted that the  words ‘without prejudice to any decision that may  be taken by the ninth session of the General  Confererce' had been omitted in the report by the  Conference Journal and that Saturday morning's  manutes had not yet been distributed,
(38) A vote by roll-czll was held on the Japanese  amendment to paragraph 2 of the draft resolution on  the scale of contributions with the following results:  Voted against: Australia, Burma (Union of),  Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Canada,  Ceylon, Chile, Denmark, Egypt, India, Indonesia,  Iran, Iraq, Israel, Libya, New Zealand, Norway,  Palistan, Saudi-Arabia, Sweden, Syria, Ukrainian  Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of South Africa,  Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Kingdom.  Voted for: Argentina, Belgium, Brazil,  Cambodia, Colombia, Domimcan Republic, France,  German Federal Republic, Greece, Guatemala,  Haiti, Italy, Japan, Korea, Laos, Liberia,  Netherlands, Nicaragua, Philippines, Spain,  United States of America, Yugoslavia.  Abstentions Costa Rica, Hashemite Kingdom of  Jordan, Mexico, El Salvador, Switzerland, Uruguay,  Viet-Nam.  Absent- Afghanistan, Austria, Cuba, Ecuador,  Honduras, Lebanon, Luxembourg, Monaco, Nepal,  Panama, Peru, Thailand, Turkey, Venezuela.
(39) The Japanese amendment was thus rejected by
24 votes to 22, with 7 abstentions.
(40) Mr. PETROVIC (Yugoslavia) explained that  his delegation had voted for the amendment for  purely technical reasons: to facilitate the work of  the Conference by making the budget simpler.
(41) Mr. SOLDATOV (Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics) said that his delegation  had already expressed its views on the  resolution as a whole. If paragraph 2  were put to the vcte separately, he  would vote against,  - 564 -     COMMISSION
(42) Paragraph 2 was put to the vote and adopted  by 48 votes to 3, with 1 abstention.
(43) The draft resolution in document 8C/ADM/31,  as a whole, was put to the vote and adopted by 47  votes to 3, with 2 abstentions.
(44) The Commission returned to the Report by the  Committee on Contributions - Methods of financing  the budget (document 8C/ADM/ 32).
(45) The CHAIRMAN recalled that the United  Kingdom delegation had made a proposal that the  budget for 1955-56 should be financed 1n accordance  with the Financial Regulations. An amendment had  been moved by the delegation of Guatemala, as  follows: ''The delegation of Guatemala moves that  the sums derived from miscellaneous sources  (budget surplus of former years, miscellaneous  revenue, and the contributions of new members for
1953-54, in accordance with the recommendations  made by the rvecial committee of the Executive  Board and the views expressed by delegations in the  Budget Commission) should be used to finance the  extraordinary projects proposed at this session in  relation to technical aid in basic education and in  the provision of reading material for people learning  to read,"
(46) Mr. CARRERA MOLINA (Guatemala), referring  to the draft recommendation which had just been  read out, pointed out that the proposed measure was  an extraordinary one, He added that several  countries had put forward specific recommendations  dealing with technical aid, and that they should not  be underestimated. His country took a great  interest in technical aid and in the fundamental  education programme.
(47) The CHAIRMAN said, that, after much  reflection, he had come to the conclusion that the  proposal by Guatemala could not be considered an  amendment to the United Kingdom proposal, in the  sense given to the word amendment’ in Rule 86,  paragraph 4, of the Rules of Procedure, and would  have to be considered as a new proposal, The United  Kingdom proposal would therefore have to be put to  the vote first, 1f it were decided to abide strictly by  the Financial Regulations, the motion by Guatemala  would lapse, and the United Kingdom proposal would  be adopted. If it were decided otherwise, then the  United Kingdom proposal would be rejected, and the  way would be open for the delegate of Guatemala to  submit his proposal.
(48) Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) wondered why a  decision taken by the Commission on Rule 86 of the  Rules of Procedure should affect the provisions of  the Financial Regulations, Could the two motions  not be discussed together as they stood? If not, the  Guatemalan delegation should be given time to draft  a text which would meet all requirements.
(49) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) wished to know the  order of priority of the two motions.
(50) The CHAIRMAN replied that the Rules of   ADMINISTRATIVE  Procedure which he had to observe only concerned  the order in which voting should take place. The  rule dealing with amendments to proposed amend-  ments did not apply in the present instance, as the  Guaternalan motion was not of that kind.
(51) Miss LAISE (United States of America) said  that it was not for the Commission to decide for  what purposes funds should be used. In so far as  it made definite proposals for the use of funds, the  proposal by Guateinala was out of order.
(52) The United Kingdom was proposing that, in  accordance with the Financial Regulations (see  document 8C/ADM/32, page 1), two sources of  income, namely, miscellaneous revenue for 1955-56  ard contiibutions assessed on Member States for
1953-54, should be used to finance the budget. The  proposal by Guatemala, 1f she understood it right,  was to the effect that three sources of income (the  budget surplus of former years, miscellaneous  revenue, and the contributions of new members for
1953-54) should be used. Thus there was a sense  in whick : e proposal by Guatemala could be  considel .d an amendment to the United Kingdom  proposal.
(53) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) said that the  United Kingdom was proposing that the three sources  of income mentioned by the previous speaker should  be used as laid down in the Financial Regulations.  The Commission might be reluctant to decide that  all those three sources of income should be so used,  therefore he would be prepared to frame his  proposal in a form which would make it possible to  suggest amendments without rejecting the proposal  outright, 1.e, he would propose that the budget be  financed in accordance with the Financial Regulations,  paragraphs 4.3, 4.4, and ”. 2,
(54) Since the delegate of Guatemala was proposing  that funds should be used for purposes none of which  were in accordance with the Financial Regulations,  the proposal by Guatemala could only be considered  as a direct negation of the United Kingdom motion.
(55) Mr. POHL (Union of South Africa) said that  the proposal by Guatemala entailed the ear-marking  of funds for certain specific purposes. It was  difficult for the Commission to discuss the proposal  without also discussing the financing of the whole  programme,
(56) The CHA'RMAN agreed thai the Commission  was not called upon to decide how money should be  spent. That was for the Programme and Budget  Commission, He would therefore suggest that the  delegate of Guatemala should amend his proposal  in such a way as to make no reference to how money  should br spent. Otherwise it would be out of order.
(57) Mr. FRAGA IRIBARNE (Spain) announced  that lis delegation intended to move that  from then on no decision taken by the  Gereral Conference would be valid 1f it were  opposed to the Financial Regulations and that,  In order to modify or suspend them, the  ipproval of at least two-thirds of its  members would be required.  - 565 -     COMMISSION V-11
(58) The reason for his proposal was that, 1n his  opinion, the Financial Regulations had been  repeatedly violated at recent meetings.
(59) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) thought that it  would be better for the Commission to vote on a  straightforward issue - whether the budget should  be financed in accordance with the Financial  Regulations or not. The proposal by Guatemala  was, he felt, a direct negation of his own,
(60) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) thought  that, as it stood, the Guatemalan proposal raised  too many technical difficulties,
(61) It was impossible not to follow the Financial  Regulations with regard to "miscellaneous revenue”  and "budget surpluses from former years".
(62) On the other hand, an exception could be made  in the case of the contributions of new members,  provided that the use to which such sums were put  were of value to them, e.g. to finance the publi-  cations of Unesco in their respective languages.
(63) Any surplus could be used by the Director-  General, without touching the 1955-56 budget, for  other expenditure in connexion with fundamental  education.
(64) Mr. HUZAYIN (Egypt) would, in principle,  support the proposal by Guatemala and considered  that a valuable purpose would be served if the  Director-General were allowed to establish a  special reserve fund for extraordinary projects,  such as the question of making Unesco publications  avallable to the newer countries, or in connexion  with basic human rights, such as the right to a basic  education, The Conference might decide what those  extraordinary projects should be, or it might  delegate special powers to the Director-General  and Executive Board.
(65) Mr. LOISEAU (Haiti) recalled that, at a recent  meeting of the Commission, the Guatemalan delegate  had proposed that such funds should be added to the  technical aid budget, whereas the United States  delegate had suggested using them to repay the debt  owed to the French Government.
(66) Mr. Loiseau thought that that one source - the  contributions of new members - might be used for  both purposes, in equal proportions, and that it was  for the Administrative Commission to decide.
(67) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece), thought that, on  the contrary, to dc so would be to encroach on the  preserve of the Advisory Committee on Programme  and Budget.
(68) He asked the Chairman to state, in the case in  question, what it was in order for the Admimstrative  Commission to discuss.
(69) Mr. CARRERA MOLINA (Guatemala) agreed  that the discussion of the special purposes for which  funds should be used was a matter for the Programme  and Budget Commission, and he therefore suggested  a short recess during which he could amend his  proposal accordingly.
(70) The CHAIRMAN said that the Chairman of the   V-12 ADMINISTRATIVE  Committee on Contributicns wanted the Commission  to give a ruling on the question of the rights of  States in arrears with their payments, but it was  not quite ready to do so,
(71) Mr, SOLDATOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) wanted the Commission to decide  forthwitF on the voting rights of Poland, Hungary  and Czechoslovakia.
(72) Mr, KOTSCHNIG (United States of America)  said that consideration of the voting rights of China  appeared on the agenda of the meeting and should  therefore be considered at once.
(73) Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) proposed that the  voting rights of all four countries should be dealt with,    COMMISSION
(74) ir. HAGUIWARA (Japan) proposed that the  voting rights of China should be considered there  and then, and those of the other three countries  at the afterpoon meeting.
(75) Finally, a motion by Mr. SOLDATOV (Union  of Soviet Socialist Republics) for immediate  adjournment and continuation of the discussion on  voting rights at the afternoon meeting was put to  the vote.
(76) The motion was adopted by 33 votes to 10,  with 5 abstentions.  The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m,  TWELFTH MEETING
22 November 1954 at 3 p.m.  Chairman  VOTING RIGHTS OF CHINA
(1) Opening the meeting, the CHAIRMAN announced  that the Commission had two items to consider:
(1) the voting rights of China, and (2) the report of  the Committee on Contributions on “he voting rights  of Poland, Czechoslovakia and Hungary. The  Chairman of the Committee on Contributions had  expressed the view that it would be unwise for the  Commission to discuss the second point until  members had the written report before them, The  item would accordingly b- deferred until the report  was available.
(2) Miss POLICARPIO (Philippines) pointed out that  the arrears in the payment of China's contribution  were due to circumstances beyond that country's  control, and the fact that it had riade a token  payment of $14, 000 was proof of a sincere desire  on China*s part to co-operate in the execution of  Unesco's programme, She therefore moved the  following resolution:  "The Administrative Commission recommends  to the General Conference that it decide to permit  China to vote during the eighth session of the  General Conference of Unesco in accordance with  paragraph 8 (c) of Article IV of the Constitution."
(3) The motion was seconded by Mr, HAGUIWARA  (Japan).  {4) Mr. HU CHING-YU (China) observed that while,  under paragraph 8 (b) of Article IV of the Constitution,  China was undoubtedly debarred from voting at the  - 566 -     Mr. BEEBY (New Zealand)  eighth session of the General Conference, the  Conference could have recourse to the remedy  provided in paragraph 8 (c) of the same Article. It  was on the strength of that provision that China had  been permitted to vote at the sixth and seventh  sessions of the General Conference, Unfortunately  China's financial situation had not improved since
1952, and the Chinese delegation again requested the  Administrative Commission to recommed to the  General Conference that it permit China to vote  during the eighth session, on the grounds that failure  to pay was due to circumstances beyond that  country's control,
(5) Mr. SOLDATOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) recalled that it had been stated several  times by several delegations that no representatives  with authority to vote for China were present at the  Conference, A decision in the sense advocated by  the delegation of the Philippines would therefore be  incorrect and would not further the cause of better  understanding and real co-operation between States  for the fulfilment of the high principles proclaimed  in Unesco's Constitution. On those grounds the  delegation of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics  would vote against the motion of the delegation of  the Philippines.
(6) Mr, KOTSCHNIG (United States of America)  recalled that the motion to reduce China's  contribution temporarily during 1955-56 had been  defeated that mormng by a very narrow margin of
24 votes to 22; that vote showed that a large  proportion of the Conference felt that China should