18 November 1954 at 10 a.m.  Chairman : Mr. AL-HANI (Iraq)  ITEM 10.2 OF REVISED AGENDA CONSIDFRATION OF  REPORTS PRESENTED BY MEMBER STATES FOR 1932-33  (continued)
(1) The CHAIRMAN called on the delegate of Ecuador  to present his observations on the reports submitted  by the Spamsh-speaking Member States.
(2) Mr. HONG HOEUNG DOEUNG (Cambodia)  suggested that it would be more convement that  delegates belonging to the same working parties  should sit together during the discussion of the  various Member States' reports. The Committee  could revert to its normal seating arrangements, in  alphabetical order, for the general discussion of the  final draft report.
(3) That suggestion was seconded by Mr. HAZOUME  (France) and was approved unanimously.
(4) Mr. TERAN ROBALINO (Ecuador) said that,
1n compliance with the recommendation of the  delegates from the Spanish-speaking countries,  three reports had been drawn up on the reports  submitted by the Spanish-speaking Member States:
(1) That submitted by the delegate of the  Dominican Republic on the reports of Chile and  Ecuador;
(2) That submitted by the same delegate on the  reports of Costa Rica and the Domimcan Republic;
(3) That submitted by the delegates of Ecuador  and the Domimcan Republic on the reports of the  other Spamsh-speaking countries.  Each of the reports had been rearranged under  three main heads-  (a) Structure and layout  (b) Contents  (c) Conclusions
(5) Mr. Teran Robalino then read out the reports on  Argentina, Colombia, Cuba, Haiti, Honduras,  Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, El Salvador, Spain  and Uruguay. He added that the conclusions drawn  from them were as follows:
(6) With regard to Argentina, it was most desirable  that in future the reports from that progressive  South American country should conform as closely  as possible to the mutually agreed layout so as to  enable the Organization to appreciate to what extent  that country was adhering to and collaborating in  Tnesco's programme.
(7) One point which should be specially brought  out was the effort to make education more democratic  by the use of certain fundamental measures such as  free education from the kindergarten to the umversaity.    Similarly, the educational reforms introduced by the  Argentine Government deserved a special mention,  they bore chiefly on matters in the social and  professional field and represented a valuable  contribution to Unesco's lofty aims.
(8) With regard to Colombia, mention should be  made of that country's brilliant collabo (tion 1n the  attainment of Unesco's high objectives. The working  party considered that the legitimate aspirations  conveyed by Colombia in its report should receive  the most favourable consideration possible.
(9) The Cuban report left a favourable impression  and testified to that country's genuine desire for  closer relations with Unesco. Attention should be  directed to the work of the Autonomous National  Commission, an experiment that would undoubtedly  fulfil the hopes inspired by that sort of organization.
(10) Special attention should be drawn to the  importance of the report submitted by Spain, being  the first which that country had presented as a  Member State of Unesco. It bore witness to the  significance attached by Spain to its relations with  Unesco. Spain's contribution would be a valuable one  having regard to 1ts cultural heritage and tradition  which had survived every change of fortune and  persisted throughout the centuries. Spain's  achievements since its recent entry into Unesco were  of the highest significance, and its report afforded  clear testimony of its intention of co-operating in  Unesco's lofty aims.
(11) Haiti had given a particularly important place to  Unesco activities. Every encouragement should be  given to that country's efforts on behalf of culture,  education and science at the national level.
(12) The report submitted by Honduras clearly  brought out that country's anxiety to collaborate in  Unesco's aims. It should receive more and more  encouragement for the energetic action 1t was taking  to that end.
(13) In Mexico praiseworthy progress could be  recorded, and a clear account emerged of that  country's valuable contribution to Unesco's  objectives.
(14) Nicaragua should be recommended to make its  future reports more explicit and complete, particularly  having regard to the goodwill shown by that country  in its relations with Unesco.
(15) Panama should in future submit reports in  accordance with the proposed layout, and it should  include a full, if summary, review of the various  measures adopted with regard to Unesco  programmes, agreements and conventions.
(16) The suggestions made to Panama should be  repeated in the case of El Salvador.  -912 -   COMMITTEE ON REPORTS OF MEMBER STATES X-5
(17) Uruguay's valuable contribution to Unesco's  objectives deserved the fullest appreciation. The  increasingly good relations between that progressive  country and Unesco called for special mention.
(18) Mr. Teran Robalino suggested that the present  session of the General Conference should congratulate  the Government of Uruguay on having formed the  Specialized Commissions which had done so much  to facilitate the work of the Executive Committee of  the National Commission in preparing for the eighth  session of the General Conference. The Specialized  Commissions also should be congratulated on the  excellence of their services and their efficient col-  laboration in organizing the work of the Conference.
(19) That suggestion of the delegate of Ecuador was  seconued by the delegate of the Dominican  Republic.
(20) The CHAIRMAN, after thanking the delegate  of Ecuador for his report, said that a few Spanish-  speaking countries remained to be reported on at  the afternoon meeting, at which the Committee would  doubtless wish to consider the suggestions made by  the delegate of Ecuador in connexion with the report  by Uruguay  The meeting rose at 12. 55 p. m.  FIFTH MEETING
18 November 1954 at 3.45p.m.  Chairman : Mr. AL-HANI (Iraq)  ITEM 10.2 OF REVISED AGENDA : CONSIDERATION OF  REPORTS PRESENTED BY MEMBER STATES FOR 1952-53  (continued)
(1) The CHAIRMAN declared the meeting open and  said that the reports submitted by the delegates of  Ecuador and the Domimcan Republic would now be  heard; those were the reports dealing with the last  of the Member States' reports which the Spamsh-  language working party had been appointed to study.
(2) Mr. TERAN ROBALINO (Ecuador) submitted  the report by the delegate of the Dominican Republic  dealing with the Member State reports from Chile  and Ecuador. He also presented his own report on  the reports from Costa Rica and the Dominican  Republic. The conclusions were as follows:
(3) Chile had shown goodwill in implementing the  programme proposed. However, 1t should be  recommended to submit fuller reports.
(4) As regarded Ecuador, projects should be  stimulated, particularly in the national field.
(5) Costa Rica had carried out useful activities.
(6) The Dominican Republic, according to its report,  was making ‘real conquests in the field of education",  and future reports should deal with all points  connected with Unesco's programme, agreements  and conventions.
(7) The CHAIRMAN thanked the delegates of  Ecuador and the Dominican Republic for thet.  reports. He asked the Committee whether 1t would  prefer to hold a discussion after each group of  reports, or wait until they had all been heard. After  a brief discussion, it was decided that the debate  would take place on 29 November, when all reports  had been submitted and, if necessary, a further    meeting could be held between that date and
6 December, when the final report was to be drawn  up for presentation to the General Conference.
(8) Miss BISHOP (United Kingdom) presented the  comments of the first English-speaking group on the  reports of the following Member States:  Afghanistan
(9) The report did not follow the proposed plan and  dealt principally with the general state of education  in the country, emphasizing the need for assistance  from "foreign organizations’. Although assistance  from Unesco had been limited, Afghanistan was  grateful for the few measures already taken in  various fields.
(10) Afghanistan, Miss Bishop noted, had taken part  in the regional education conference in New Delhi,  and in the scientific conference at Karachi.
(11) Assistance might be assumed to be needed in  the training of National Commission personnel and  in the execution of programme activities. Public  relations were of lesser importance.  Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
(12) No information was given on the ratification of  international conventions and very little about the  implementation of Unesco resolutions.
(13) Unesco was criticized for lack of assistance to  that Member State. The only project in which the  Organization collaborated was the women's training  college. The Courier had been actively distributed,  but dissatisfaction had been felt over an article on  Israel. Jordan also regretted the cancellation of the  Regional Conference of National Commissions.
(14) Up to the present, the Ministry of Education had  acted as National Commission, but the creation of a  new National Commission, of which the Minister of  Education would be Chairman, h d been discussed  - 913 -