IV-17 PROGRAMME AND BUDGET COMMISSION  SEVENTEENTH MEETING
30 November 1954 at 9.30 a.m.  Chairman : Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland)  ITEM 8.4.2 OF REVISED AGENDA : NATURAL SCIENCES  (continued)  (Document 8C/DR/108): Peaceful use of atomic  energy, draft resolution presented jointly by the  delegations of France, India and Japan
(1) The CHAIRMAN invited the delegate of India to  introduce the proposal, which combined the three  proposals submitted by the Governments of France,  India and Japan in documents 8C/DR/1, 9 and 32  respectively.
(2) Dr. MUDALIAR (India) said that the Indian  Governinent and National Commission believed that  the only way to secure peace and happiness in the  world was to divert the efforts and resources at  present expended on the production of armaments  to the more humanitarian task of using the momen-  tous discoveries of atomic energy in the service of  mankind.
(3) The original proposal in document 8C/DR/9 was  based on a decision by the Netional Commission  nearly a year previously; a revised version had  been submitted in document DR/9 (rev.), following  the announcemeit of the important resolution passed  by the United Nations Political and Security  Committee on 23 November.
(4) It was inevitable that, once the destructive  potentialities of atomic energy were known, attention  would be turned to discovering how it could be used  to preserve instead of to annihilate the human race,  and to promote peaceful co-operation, friendship and  better understanding,
(5) The conquest of time and space had brought  nations closer together, and humanity could only be  saved by universal action. A new hope had appeared  on the horizon, and it was for Unesco to seize the  opportunity offered by the United Nations and to work  for peace in the world.
(6) He supported the amendments of the French and  Japanese delegations, together with the budgetary  implications, and urged that the Director-General  should be free to use the funds as he thought best.
(7) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that he was  personally interested in the pronosal and agreed with  the delegate of India as to the importance of  following the lead set by the United Nations.  He would like the Commission to know that an  important part had been played by the Director  of the Department of Natural Sciences, who had  been called in to participate in the work of  the Bunche Committee when the proposals were  being drafted.  - 378 -
(8) Mr. KAYA (Japan) said that the most urgent  need at the present time was for medical and  biological research on the effects of radio-activity,  Through ignorance or negligence in the treatment  of radio-active substance., the injury might be  extended to innocent people through water, air, soil  or food. No conclusions had yet been reached on  methods of decontemination and other important  aspects and it was impossible in the circumstances  to provide protection against atomic injury.
(9) It was evident that research involved complex  problems, and could not be conducted without close  co-operation from experts in such fields as medicine,  biology, meteorology, oceanography, chemistry and  physics. Hitherto there had been little co-operation,  and for that reason the Japanese delegation had pro-  posed the calling of a meeting of experts for exchange  of information and promotion of research.
(10) Certain circumstances had led the Japanese  delegation to amend the resolution, notably the recent  action on the part of the United Nations.
(11) It had also been pointed out, in document
8C/PRG/20, Add.2., that the Director-General of  the World Health Organization considered that the  Japanese proposal impinged on the activities of that  Organization. While agreeing that the main objec-  tives of the resolution came within the field of  WHO's activities, there were many important prob-  lems requiring research which did not touch on  health; for example, contamination of air, rain and  sea water; analysis of radio-active isotopes; and  mutation in human beings caused by radiation.
(12) Nevertheless, taking all things into considera-  tion, the Japanese delegation had agreed that it  would be most appropriate for Unesco to work in  co-operation with the United Nations and the World  Health Organization.
(13) Mr. SUZUKI (Japan), having explained the joint  draft resoluiion, proposed that the last two lines of  paragraph three of the joint resolution should be  amended by deletion of the wurds "as protection  against" and their replacement by the words "such  as those invoived in the... ". The .cr iution would  then have a wider scope and study would not be  limited to the harmful effects of radio-activity.
(14) Mr. LEROY (France) fully endorsed the  opinions expressed by the delegates of India and  Japan. In the name of the French delegation, he  urged the need for such measures. In his opinion,  it was not a question of undertaking activities parallel  to those af the United Nations, but of taking the  necessary steps to achieve close co-operation with  the latter in the field under discussion,   PROGRAMME AND
(15) The French delegation believed that an  international agency would offer many advantages,  particularly for collecting and distributing informa-  tion. It would also be useful to form a "pool" of  isotopes available to all those interested, and it was  important to study the question of protection against  the effects of radio- activity, particularly for the  research workers themselves. Such an agency would  facilitate co-operation between all the specialists  concerned.
(16) Mr. Leroy added that the French delegation  attached particular importance to the last paragraph,  which should enable research workers all over the  world to intensify their efforts.
(17) Mr. SPILHAUS (United States of America)  warmly supported the Indian resolution, together  with the amendments proposed by the delegates of  France and Japan, and hoped that Unesco would co-  operate in the United Nations plan for the peaceful  use of atomic energy. The plan, which had been  Initiated by President Eisenhower and developed by  conversations with the United Kingdom, France,  Canada, Australia, Belgium, the Union of South  Africa and Portugal, included the establishment of  an international atomic agency and the convening of  an international scientific conference in 1955, both  under the auspices of the United Natirns. Unesco  and the other Specialized Agencies could play ex-  tremely useful parts.
(18) The United States of America believed that there  were great potentialities in the use of atomic energy  for peaceful purposes, but that it was necessary to  educate people in order to eradicate existing fears.  Nuclear fuel, for example, was simply a newer  variety of fuel, potentially so abundant as to remove  future shortages, but, like all fuel, needing care in  handling. Development and exploitation of coal and  petroleum, for example, had unfortunately always  been accompanied by dangers, and continuous  research was necessary to reduce hazards and  perfect safety measures. In the United States of  America considerable effort was being devoted to  finding safeguards, making diagnosis and improving  treatment of injuries in connexion with radio-active  naterials. In the interests of spreading information,  it would be useful for Unesco to co-operate with the  proposed United Nations atomic energy agency and  the World Health Organization.
(19) Turning to the constructive aspect, the problem  to be solved was how best to use atomic energy both  as a fuel and in the form of isotopes. At present  the use of nuclear power depended on economic  considerations and the first areas to enjoy its bene-  fits should accordingly be those where other forms  of power were expensive or non-existent. Reactors,  working on the same principle as power reactors,  could be built comparatively cheaply in many parts  of the world, and could be used for training purposes  and also for the production of radio-isotopes.
(20) The two main uses for radio-isotopes were to  change living organisms and as tracers. The first  was of great importance in the treatment of cancer  and the preservation of food. As tracers, they could  be used either in growing plants: in the study of  genetics, plant and animal growth, reproductive  processes and the production of food from common  - 379 -     BUDQET COMMISSION IV-17  chemicals by photosynthesis; or in inanimate  physical activities: as control devices in industry,  or to study the physics of the earth in order to gain  knowledge which would improve long-range weather  forecasting and thus benefit the production of food.
(21) Up to the present tire, the United States of  America had made 2, 800 shipments of isotopes to  fifty different countries. Under the United Nations  plan, such activities would be multiplied and  countries would also be encouraged to produce their  own isotopes.
(22) Mr. NIELSEN (Denmark) supported the resolu-  tion, but had the following comments to make.
(23) While certain aspects of research on the use  of isotope~ could be assisted by international co-  operation, some countries were already working  with isctopes, and it was important that their work  should not be impinged on by the proposed interna-  tional agency.
(24) With regard to the effects of field radio-activity,  he agreed that some aspects came within the field  of the World Health Organization, but there were  many others to be considered. He hoped that, since  the scheme was being organized by the United  Nations, there would be a correct distribution of  responsibilities between the Specialized Agencies.
(25) Finally, no mention had been made of the work  of the International Commission on Radiological  Protection and other organizations. It was important  to make use of existing research and knowledge.
(26) Mr. ZAMORANO HERNANDEZ (Chile) con-  sidered that the merit of the proposals in the draft  resolution presented by India, Japan and France  was obvious, and that they need not be discussed in  detail. They deserved to meet with enthusiastic  and unanimous approval because they were in keeping  with the spirit of Unesco. The peoples cf all  countries wanted science to be put at th: service of  man, and it was natural for isotopes to be used for  mankind's benefit. Chile would therefore vote in  favour of establishing an international institute for  research into those problems.
(27) The CHAIRMAN requested members to close  the discussion as quickly as possible.
(28) Mr. VILLAR (Uruguay) warmly praised draft  resolution 8C/DR/108. Referring to the utilization  of nuclear energy, he drew attention to the new  possibilities opened up by recent discoveries. They  would make nuclear energy more widely available  in the world, would increase the benefits which  electrical energy could bring to countries where it  was difficult to transport fuel or where water power  was lacking and would enable regions of great  natural wealth to be exploited to an extent not yet  practicable owing to lack of means. He thought that  great importance should be attached to small atomic  piles, since they were easy to utilize.
(29) Mr. RAADI (Iran) did not wish to repeat  the cogent remarks of previous speakers, but  it seemed to him that current scientific  research should be accompamed by a campaign  to publicize the dangers of radio-activity and   IV-17 PROGRAMME AND  the possibilities of utilizing atomic energy for  peaceful purposes.
(30) Unesco could render considerable service to  the public by instructing its Department of Mass  Communication, for instance, to throw some light on  the mystery at present surrounding atomic energy  research.
(31) Mr. Raadi wondered whether the authors of  draft resolution 8C/DR/108 would agree to add to the  third paragraph of their text a clause - subject to  later verbal improvements - on the lines he had  suggested.
(32) Mr. SEVERI (Italy) warmly welcomed draft  resolution 8C/DR/108 and emphasized the importance  of international research into methods of safeguarding  research workers against the dangers inherent in  their work.
(33) Mr. MICHALOWSKI (Poland) supported the  joint proposal, although he preferred the original  one submitted by the Indian delegation. Poland had  repeatedly stressed the danger of using atomic  energy for destructive purposes. There was wide-  spread evidence of the desire among the people and  among social as well as scientific bodies, in  developed and underdeveloped countries alike, that  it should be used for peaceful purposes. T.e unani-  mous adoption of the United Nations resolution was  also significant, and he hoped there would be  unanimous approval of the proposal now before the  Commission. Unesco had an important rôle tu play,  and he urged priority for the implementation of the  resolution.
(34) Certain countries where nuclear energy was  already highly developed had an obligation to the rest  of the world: first to prohibit the use of atomic  weapons and eliminate fear in the world; and second  to develop and encourage the peaceful use of atomic  energy. In implementing the resolution, the  Director-General should work in close contact with  those countries and make use of their knowledge and  experience.
(35) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) said that the  Executive Board was whole-heartedly in support of the  use of atomic energy for the benefit of mankind and  had devoted much time and effort to the problem.  The Board nad supported the French proposal in  document 8C/DR/1, with the proviso that before any  meeting of experts were held the countries concerned  should be consulted to ascertain their interest in the  problem.
(36) The Board had unanimously recommended  adoption of resolution 8C/DR/9, but had suggested  that document 8C/DR/32 should be revised in the  light of the United Nations resolution. The Board  had not been able to review the joint resolution, but,  in view of the foregoing comments, and the fact that  the Japanese resolution had been amended, in her  opinion, approval could be taken for granted.
(37) Mr. CABOUAT (Rapporteur, Advisory Committee  on Programme and Budget) said that the Committee  had examined draft resolutions 8C/DR/1, 9and 32  together, in view of the obvious connexion between them,  and had considered them extremely important.  BUDGET COMMISSION
(38) The Committee had pointed out the need for  close co-operation with the United Nations and, in  the case of the resolution on an international pro-  gramme of research on problems connected with  the use of radio-isotopes, had recommended that the  choice of experts should not be limited to Europe  and that the advice of the Acvisory Committee on  Research in the Natural Sciences Programme be  sought,
(39) The Committee had also asked that WHO be  approached with a view to defining exactly the  respective fields of competence of that body and  Unesco in connexion with the Japanese proposal for  protection against the effects of radio-activity. A  most satisfactory reply had been received from WHO.
(40) Mr. Caboudt added that the Advisory Committee  on Programme and Budget had not studied the draft  resolution at present before the Commission but  recommended the adoption of any resolution which  would enable Unesco to co-operate with the United  Nations and the Specialized Agencies in the field of  atomic energy. The work plan drawn up by the  Secretariat was also intended to give effect to the  three original draft resolutions.
(41) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Commission)  read out the draft amendment earlier proposed by  the Japanese delegate and consisting of the addition  of the following words after ''certain technical  questions" in the third paragraph of resolution
8C/DR/108: "such as those involved in the effects  of radio-activity on life in general".
(42) The above amendment was seconded by Mr.  NIELSEN (Denmark).
(43) Mr. Chevalier then read out a draft amendment  submitted by Mr. Raadi; it was to add to the third  paragraph the words: 'as well as for the diffusion  of objective information concerning the dangers and  the peaceful uses of atomic energy".
(44) The amendment was supported by Mr.  ZAMORANO HERNANDEZ (Chile).
(45) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) thought that the authors of the draft  resolution under consideration would not object to  changing its form slightly so that it might be included  in the programme for 1955-56. The first two para-  graphs would be considered as a preamble, then  paragraphs 3 and 4 would appear as "Resolution
2.221", and the last paragraph would be deleted and  replaced by the corresy onding work plan.
(46) It wouldalso be advisable to add to paragraph 108  a workplan corresponding to Mr. Raadi's proposal.
(47) Mr. RAADI (Iran) agreed with Mr. Auger's  suggestions.
(48) In reply to a question from the delegate of the  USSR, the CHAIRMAN said that the work plan  referred to at the end of resolution 8C/DR/108 was  the one set out in document 8C/PRG/24, Add. 1.
(49) Resolution 8C/DR/108, as amended, was put  to the vote and adopted unanimously.    - 380 -   PROGRAMME AND
(50) Mr. ZAMORANO HERNANDEZ (Chile) was  grateful for the opportunity to raise a point of  procedure. A member of his delegation, referring  to paragraphs 79 and 81 of the chapter on Natural  Sciences. had asked for the documents there men-  tioned to be translated into Spanish. No immediate  reply had been given. A letter had been sent to the  Secretariat but it had not yet answered. The previous  week, the Argentine delegate had made a similar  request with regard to the chapter on Education. Mr.  Zamorano Hernandez would like to know what action  had been taken on those requests, The Chairman  had alluded to their financial implications, and the  speaker once more asked if he would indicate the  Commission's views in the matter.
(51) The CHAIRMAN replied that Mr. Zamoranc's  question differed from that put previously by the  Argentine delegation. The Secretariat had in fact  replied that the translations asked for by the Argen-  tine delegation involved no special expenditure  because the documents in question were merely  roneographed.
(52) The translations requested by the Chilean dele-  gate, on the other hand, would entail a total  expenditure of $4,530. If the Commission felt that it  should accede to the request, it would have to be  transmitted to the Advisory Committee on Programme  and Budget for its opinion.
(53) Mr. CASSANI (Argentina) supported the Chilean  delegate's request, which was based on the reasons  expounded by his delegation when it had made a  similar request with regard to the chapter on  Education. Reports on the arid zone were of the  greatest interest to Latin America, which asked the  Commission to view its request with favour.
(54) The Chilean delegate's proposal was put to the  vote and approved by 19 votes to 5, with 21 zbstentions
(55) Mr. SPILHAUS (United States of America) said  that there was a difference between his own under-  standing of the amendment submitted by the Iranian  delegate and the wording given by the Chairman. The  version which he had voted for was: ''as well as for  the diffusion of information concerning all aspects  of the peaceful utilizati- * of atomic energy".
(56) The CHAIRMAN, speaking in English, read the  text before him, which was as follows: "and to  disseminate objective information on the dangers and  on the peaceful use of atomic energy".
(57) Mr. SPILHAUS (United States of America) asked  if the Iranian delegate would be agreeable to the  deletion of the word "dangers'’ and the substitution  of the words: "concerning all aspects of the peaceful  utilization of atomic energy", which would broaden  the scope of Unesco's work.
(58) The CHAIRMAN recalled that the Commission  had already approved the amendment submitted by the  delegate of Iran.
(59) Mr. RAADI (Iran) hoped that steps would be taken  to disseminate objective information on the peaceful  - 381 -  BUDGET     COMMISSION IV-17  utilization of atomic energy. As his original  proposal had been made subject to improvements in  drafting, he left it to the Commission's discretion  to decide on the exact wording.
(60) Mr. PAGE (Canada) supported the United States  delegate. The selection of one aspect would give it  undue emphasis. He also opposed the word "objec-  tive", since it might imply that Unesco was not in  the habit of supplying objective information.  (€1) Mr. RAADI (Iran) thought that the following  wording would convey the unanimous feelings of  members of the Commission: "...and to the dissemi-  nation of objective information concerning all  aspects of the peaceful utilization of atomic energy".
(62) Mr. Raadi wished to retain the word  "objective", as he thought that it was the Secretariat's  task to collect and sort out information before  disseminating it.
(63) Mr. SPILHAUS (United States of America) said  that he was prepared to withdraw his opposition to  the word "objective", but insisted on the inclusion  of the word "peaceful".
(64) Mr. RAADI (Iran) signified his acceptance.
(65) Mr. PAGE (Canada) also agreed not to press  for the exclusion of the word "objective". It was  essential to retain the word "peaceful", however,  since otherwise the Department of Natural Sciences  could be asked to give plans for the latest hydrogen  bomb.
(66) It was agreed to accept the text as reed out by  the delegate of the United States of America in place  of the one previously adopted.
(67) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) said that the Secretariat had just received  the text adopted by the United Nations Political and  Security Committee on the peaceful uses of atomic  energy. It differed slightly from that attached to  document 8C/PRG/ 24, but the paragraphs relating  to co-operation between the United Nations and  Unesco had not been changed. The Secretariat would  shortly circulate the document for information  purposes.
(68) On a point of order, Mr. AL-KOUSSI (Egypt)  wondered whether it was usual to reopen the discus-  sion on resolutions which the Commission had already  approved.
(69) The CHAIRMAN recognized that the Egyptian  delegate's comment was most pertinent, but recalled  that he had asked the Commission whether it approved  of the United States delegate's proposal, which was  supported by the Canadian delegate. He also felt that  a certain degree of flexibility should be preserved in  the Commission's transaction of business.
(70) Mr. VLAHOVIC (Yugoslavia) thought that the  reference in the first paragraph of resolution
8C/DR/108 to the Political and Security  Committee of the United Nations was due to a   PROGRAMME AND IV-17  misunderstanding and that the organ concerned  was the Political Commission.
(71) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) was of opinion that the General Assembly  of the United Nations should be mentioned in the  final version, as in the last resort it would aave to  reject or approve the resolution concerned.  Paragraphs 42-48
(72) Mr. CABOUAT (Rapporteur, Advisory Com-  mittee on Programme and Budget) informed the  meeting of the Advisory Committee's recommenda-  tion that the proposed contract with the Council for  International Organizations of Medical Sciences for  translating medical abstracts should be cancelled,  and the appropriations for 1955 under paragraph 48  thereby reduced by $3, 000 (see document 8C/5,  corrigendum, page 9).
(73) The above recommendation had been approved  after a short discussion, during which it was  mentioned that some delegates had informed the  Committee of the feeling in certain National  Commissions that the translations were not indis-  pensable, and that a saving might be effected under  that head.
(74) Sir John SIMONSEN (United Kingdom) recalled  his statement at a previous meeting on the danger  of mistranslation of medical abstracts. He thought  that the project had been dropped.
(75) In reply to Mr. AL-KOUSSI (Egypt), Mr.  AUGER (Director, Department of Natural Sciences)  explained that the translations in question were  English, French and Spanish only.
(76) Mr. AL- KOUSSI (Egypt) wondered whether it  would be possible for the translations to be in  Spanish only, as that would be more economi- al.
(77) Speaking as representative of CIOMS, Mr.  BERREDO CARNEIRO wished to know Mr. Auger's  views on the Advisory Committee's suggestion.
(78) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) ~ecailed that certain appropriations had  had to be cancelled in favour of more important  projects, but, in the present case, the cancellation  was not counterbalanced by any increase elsewhere.  He added that, in his opinion, the $3,000 were not  essential.
(79) The Advisory Committee's recommendation  was unanimously approved.  Paragraphs 54 and 55
(80) Mr. CABOUAT (Rapporteur, Advisory Com-  mittee on Programme and Budget) explained that  several members of the Committee had expressed  doubts, not about the substance of the Secretariat's  proposal, but about the method envisaged. It had  been felt that the work would receive more publicity  if the help of specialized periodicals were called in,  but, because of the commercial negotiations that  BUDGET     - 382 -  COMMISSION  would be necessary, it had seemed preferable to  adopt the measures proposed by the Secretariat.
(81) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) understood that the  International Anatomical Nomenclature Committee  was responsible for selecting and publishing for the  next International Anatomical Congress a nomen-  clature which would appear in its records. He saw  no difference between that solution and publication  in specialized periodicals.
(82) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) pointed out that commercial firms  preferred to publish the nomenclaturc in its final  version, while Unesco was aidin> the preparatory  work at pres«nt in progress.
(83) Paragraphs 54 and 55 were unanimously  approved.  Draft resolutions 8C/DR/35, 8C/DR/54, 8C/DR/60
(84) At the CHAIRMAN's suggestion, the delegates  of France, Uruguay and Belgium agreed to prepare  a joint resolution for consideration at the next  meeting.
2.3 Teaching and dissemination of science  Paragraphs 103-106
(85) Mr. ZAMORANO HERNANDEZ (Chile) thought  that paragraphs 103 and 104 of the preamble were  somewhat obscure and ambiguous. It was, for  instance, cver-dogmatic to say: ''The great fund of  knowledge .. becomes a resource for humanity and  a means of improving the conditions of life only  when it reaches the public, is understood and put to  use". That statement seemed to him to be  exaggerated; in his opinion, the dissemination of  science should consist in making scientific dis-  coveries known amoung the general public. Unless  it were popularized, scientific thought would not  penetrate the minds of the masses. He asked the  Department to set out its objects with greater  clarity. He believed that the latter should be: (1)  to disseminate scientific knowledge in order that the  public might be familiar with the work scientists  were doing, support it and co-operate with them in  its own way; (2) to disseminate scientific knowledge  without popularizing it unduly; people should be  "uplifted" through the acquisition of such knowledge.  In his opinion, paragraphs 103 and 104 said little  to that effect.
(86) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) entirely shared the Chilean delegate's  views with regard to science teaching - it should not  be limited to publicizing a certain number of results,  but should try to make the scientific spirit  understood.
(87) Mr. Auger added that the aim of paragraphs
103 and 104 was in no wise to lay down the law on  the subject. Perhaps 1t would be advisable to  publish some twenty pages setting out the Secre-  tariat's ideas, for example, in the series "Unesco  and its programme".   PHOGRAMME AND
(88) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) recalled  that the Department of Natural Sciences had already  published an account of ‘ts 1deas and intentions That  work had been most interesting, out he felt that he  ought to draw the Commission's attention to the  danger of expressing an opinion on complex questions  which were more suitabl: for committees of experts.
(89) Mr WEILENMANN (Switzerland) wished to add  to the third line of resolution 2 31, after "in the  sciences’ the words "and especially the activities of  adult education establishments” The Swiss delega-  tion felt that 1t was necessary to make specific  mention of bodies which devoted themselves to adult  education and had already rendered considerable  service.
(80) The above proposal was seconded by Mr  SEVERI (Italy)
(91) Vr ZAMORANO HERNANDEZ (Chile) admitted  that there might be many documents which explained  the points to which he had referred, but wished to  draw attention to the phrase in paragraph 104 which  read "In the relauvely undeveloped countries it 1s  recognized that underdevelopment ts largely the  result of a lack of science” He thought that ctate-  ment exaggerated and lacking in foundation, mention  should also be made of other factors, for instance,  economic or social conditions, etc. He therefore  asked that the statement be deleted or explained in  more detailed documents. At the CHAIRMAN's sug-  gestion, he proposed that the paragraph be referred  to the Drafting Committee so that other factors might  be added as a basis for the assertion.
(92) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) objected to  the wording of paragraph 104 on similar grounds. He  did not think that there was any close connexion  between a courtry's scientific knowledge and its  degree of development. He emphasized the danger  of brief, categorical statements, leaving no room for  shades of interpretation.
(93) Mr. TUNCEL (Turkey) did not agree with the  Chilean delegate and proposed the retention of the  existing wording.
(94) In reply to Mr. KABIR (India), the CHAIRMAN  recalled that the Commission had already had an  opportunity to introduce changes into the resolutions  and work plans.
(95) By 29 votes to 9, with 4 abstentions, 1t was  finally agreed to refer paragraph 104 to the Drafting  Committee, as suggested by the delegate of Chile.
(96) The proposed amendment to resolution 2. 31,  submitted by the Swiss delegate and seconded by  the Italian delegate, was approved by 35 votes to  none, with 4 abstentions.  (A) General scientific information (paragraphs
(97) Mr. VO VAN LUA (Viet-Nam) considered that  in paragraph 112 it was not enough to talk of    DGET COMMISSION IV-17  increasing the number of articles in Impact and  the number of copies printed; the need to improve  its layout and redouble efforts to make it pay should  also be emphasized, The speaker added that the  review was nevertheless considered of great interest  by scientists in his country.
(98) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) vas willing to accept a change in the work  plan on the lines suggested by the delegate of Viet-  Nam.
(99) Sir John SIMONSEN (United Kingdom) thought  that the projects described in paragraphs 107-114  were admirable.
(100) He was however, concerned at the low circu-  lation of Impact and the fact that it was run at a  loss. The articles were good, but he considered  -them too costly, A publication of a more popular  character, with a wider circulation, might be more  satisfactory. .;
(1C1) He also doubted the value of travelling ex-  hibitions and thought that travelling fellowships  might be of more use.
(102) Mr. AL-KOUSSI (Egypt) stated that the  Egyptian Government was prepared to give material  assistance to the plan to publish some of the Impact  articles in Arabic. He agreed with the criticisms  voiced by the delegate of Viet-Nam with regard to  the layout of the review, although he found its con-  tents excellent and was not in favour of turning it  into a more popular type of publication, as  suggested by the delegate of the United Kingdom  Mr. Al-Koussi was convinced that a greater effort  should be made to increase its circuiation,
(103) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) said that the Secretariat was perfectly  willing to alter the layout of Impact . He had been  very pleased to hear the complimentary remarks  about the articles published in it.
(104) He added that efforts would be made to  increase Impact's circulation. It was true that  contracts and other arrangements at present in force  raised certain problems, but he was able to announce  tha new arrangements had been made for the .  United Kingdom.
(105) In repiy to Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon), Mr.  Auger explained that there was no appropriation  under paragraph 113, that explained the words: "The  Secretariat will also study the possibility of having  selected articles from Impact published in  Arabic. ..". The assistance of the Egyptian Govern-  ment,. however, would prohably make it possible for  articles to be published in Arabic without ary  additional appropriations; in that case, the relevant  passage in the work plans could be altered  accordingly.
(106) Section (A) was then approved.  (B) Travelling science exhibitions (paragraphs
(107) Mr. ABEYWICKREMA (Ceylon) thought that  travelling exhibitions were useful, but that there  - 383 -   IV-17 PROGRAMME AND  were not enough to supply all countries. A large  n° mber of small exhibit:ons would be more effective.  He noted that exhibitions were withdrawn after a  certain period and proposed that they should then be  given to Member countries to use as a nucleus for  permanent scieniific exhibitions. .
(108) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) thought the suggestion made by the dele-  gate of Ceylon excellent; it was perfectly possible  to leave a scientific exhibition in the last country  where it had been shown, instead of bringing :t back  to Paris, so long as the government of the country  undertook to carry out the necessary re; «drs and use  the exhibition as the nucleus of a science museum.
(109) Mr. PAGE (Canada) approved the general pro-  posals contained in paragraphs 116-118 and agreed  with the suggestions of the delegate of Ceylon. He  asked, however, if it would be possible to obtain,  through the exhibition staff or appropriate persons  in the countries receiving exhibitions, some idea of  their value and public response to them. Some  method of assessment would help in planning future  exhibitions. )
(110) Section (B) was approved.  (C) Conference on the Public Understanding of  Science (paragiaphs 119 and 120)
(111) Section (C) was approved.  Higher Budgetary Levei  Travelling science exhibitions (paragraphs 121 and
(112) Mr. SANDOVAL VALLARTA (Mexico) agreed  with the Canadian delegate's suggestion. As there  were no data available on the results of the travelling  exhibitions, he asked for fuller information before  voting for increased appropriations under that head.
(113) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) thought it very difficult to say exactly how  much success an exhibition had. The number of  visitors gave sdme indication; B80, 000 was the iigure  for attendance at Lima and 20, 000 for Pnom-Penh.  Further, according to information gathered from  educators in countries where the exhibitions had been  shown, visitors had managed to acquire a considerable  amount of knowledge and ideas from them.
(114) Mr. SUZUKI (Japan) stated that Unesco's ex-  hibitions had met with considerable success in his  ‘country, and he thought that the Organization's  efforts in that field should be encouraged.
(115) Mr. VO VAN LUA (Viet-Nam) pointed out that  Unesco exhibitions were extremely useful, for they  made the Organization known to populations which  perhaps would have had no other opportunity to come  into contact with its activities. The exhibition  recently organized in Viet-Nam had been a complete  success.
(116) Mr. Vo Van Lua also favoured the project for  films to accompany the exhibitions. res  - 384 -  BUDGET     COMMISSION
(117) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) said that, in Beigium,  filmstrips about the travelling exhibitions were  already in use at all educational levels, and were  found very helpful in science teaching.
(118) Mr. LINKSON (Austraita) was interested, in the  educational value of travelling exhibitions, but had  doubts about the results obtained. He suggested that,  when examining the results of exhibitions, considera-  tion should be given to the possibility of receiving  countries’ playing a greater part in their pr. aration,  Such a policy would 1n his opinion, result in exhibi-  tions which were more suited to the needs of the  respective countries and areas, and would also heip  in training nationals to present their own  exhibitions.
(119) Mr. SHARIF (Pakistan) had no doubt of the  educational value of travelling exhibitions. Recent  experience in Latin America was sufficient to  justify continuing the project, and he strongly sup-  ported it. He also rgreed with the delegates who  had advocated the policy of linking travelling  exhibitions with local effort.
(120) Paragraphs 121 and 12? were approved.
(121) Resolution 2.31, as amended by the delegate of  Switzerland, was adopted.  Resolution 8C/DR/56 (rev.): Dissemination of  science
(122) The proposa! submitted by Uruguay was  seconded by the delegates of Italy, Chile, Turkey  and France.
(123) The delegate of Uruguay accepted the Advisory  Committee's recommendation that the proposal  should be considered as a technical assistance item  ~ither in the 1955-56 or the 1957-58 programme.  Draft resolution 8C/DR/51: Scientific and technical  education
(124) Mr. ESTELRICH (Spain) pointed out that the  present rapid development of science raised serious  problems in teaching it, particularly in secondary  schools. The Spanish teaching protession was much  occupied with the problem and had put it to the  Director-General during his visit-to Spain the  previous May. That visit had aroused great interest  in the country and the Director-General had ex-  pressed appreciation of Spain's efforts to co-operate  effectively with Unesco. It had been decided at that  time to suggest to Unesco projects which were (a)  international in scope, (b) of practical interest and  (c) urgently required. One such project was the  establishment of a "Pilot Centre for the study of  methods of teaching science in secondary schools and  for the training of teachers of scientific and technical  subjects for such schools", referred to in draft  resolution DR/a4, which was an amendment to reso-  lution 2. 32. Document 8C/DR/51 had been added for  purposes of information. To the data given in  documents DR/44 and DR/51 should be added  the fact that the second l.atin American  Congress on Education, held in Quito the   PROGRAMME AND  previous October, had recommended the project.  Spain wag ready to establish the Centre in  order to meet 1ts own needs, co-operate more  closely with Unesco and implement the  recommendation of the Quito Congress.  ever-increasing stream of Latin American  students coming to Furope to study in Spanish  schools had made it still more desirable to set  up such a Centre. Spain was bearing all the  costs of establishing and maintaining the Centre  and was only asking Unesco for a contribution  towards laboratory equipment, documentation and  books, and possibly for some professor or  expert who might be needed.  The  Project 2.32: Teaching of sciences
(125) Mr. ZAMORANO HERNANDEZ (Chile) asked  the Director of the Natural Sciences Department  what were meant by "State primary and secondary  schools” in resolution 2. 32 of the draft programme  and budget.
(126) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) replied that the words referred to primary  and secondary education, as understood in France,  at any rate,
(127) Mr. THA HLA (Union of Burma) sa:d that as  a university professor he had difficulty in advising  State scholars on their choice of universities In  other countries. There was a need for a inanual of  world universities with detailed information on the  specific branches of science that were taught. He  proposed the inclusion of such a manual in project
(128) Mr SALIM (Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan)  referring to resolution 2.32, doubted the necessity  for improving sc :nce teaching in fundamental  education since the main concern In fundamental  education was to teach reading and writing and to  improve economic conditions. His experience of the  teaching of science in primary and secondary schools  showed that schoolchildren who had been taught  science for a number of years had little grasp of  ‘scientific ideas and had not de eloped a scientific  outlook. ,
(129) Mr. CASSANI (Argentina) repeated the ques-  tion asked by the Chilean delegate. He wished to  know whether the expression ‘secondary schools"  included all educational establishments between  elementary schools and universities. He thought that  the point should be clarified.
(130) Mr. NIELSEN (Denmark), referring to the  remarks of the Burmese delegate, pointed out that  the International Universities Bureau had already  published a list of universities and was working on a  cataloguing system. The Burmese delegate would,  he felt sure, receive useful information 1f he applied  to the Bureau.    DGFT COMMISSION IV-17
(131) Mr. AL-KOUSSI (Egypt) mentioned two  volumes on universities which had been published in  tte United States of America. .
(132) In reply to Mr. RAADI (Iran), Mr AUGER  (Director, Department of Natural Sciences) and the  CHAIRMAN confirmed that the proposed addition to  the work plan, corresponding to resolution 2 31, had  been implicitly approved at the same time as  paragraph 108.
(133) Mr. SHARIF (Pakistan), referring to para-  graph 132, extended an invitation to the proposed  conference on science teaching and vocational And  technical training in South Asia on behalf of his  delegation and Government If it were decided to  hold the conference in Paxistan, his Government  wouldoffer all possible facilities to ensure its success.
(134) Mr. PRASAD (India) supported the proposal  of the delegate of Pakistan.
(135) In connexion with resolution 2. 32, Mr.  Prasad referred to a proposal which had been mare  by the National Committee of the International  Mathematical Union to organize a conference of  Member States in South and South East Asia. He  read a resolution passed by the Executive Committee  of the International Union on 31 August 1954 during  its meeting at The Hague, as a result of which the  Indian delegation had asked Unesco for a grant of  $3,000. The request had been approved by the  Executive Board, but rejected by the Advisory Com-  mittee on Programme and Budget on 11 November
1954 by a vote of 5 to 4 with 2 abstentions.
(136) The Indian Government attached great  importance to the conference and had already set  aside a sum to contribute to its cost. He accordingly  submited the following proposal. ’  "Considering that the Executive Committee of the  International Mathematical Union, at its meeting  held at The Hague on 31 August 1954, voted unani-  mously in favour of a conference on mathematical  education to be held m India in 1956 for countries  of South and South East Asia, the General Conference  authorizes the Director-Generai to make a grant of  $3,000 to the National Committee in India of the  International Mathematical Union to organize the  proposed conference".
(137) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) said that he had attended the meeting of  the International Mathematical Union and could assert  that the plan to hold a conferénce on the. teaching of  mathematics aroused the keenest interest.
(138) The Indian delegate's proposal, seconded by  Mr. SUZUKI (Japan) and Mr. ABEYWICKREMA .  (Ceylon), was approved on the understanding that it  would be referred to the Advisory Committee on  Programme and Budget for its opinion.  The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m.  - 385 -