3 December 1954 at 10 a.m.  Chairman : Mr. BEEBY (New Zealand)  ITEM 9.7.1 OF REVISED AGENDA: REPORT OF THE  HEADQUARTERS COMMITTEE AND PROGRESS REPORT  OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL (documents 8C/ADM/ 24 and
(1) Mr, BERREDO CARNEIRO (Chairman of the  Headquarters Committee) said that, while little  comment was required on document 3C/ADM/24, he  would draw attention to the proposal on page 2 of  document 8C/ADM/24 Add,, authorizing the Director-  General to continue negotiations with ICAO in con-  nexion with the installation of its Europe-Africa  Office in the Unesco Headquarters Building, and to  reach a satisfactory agreement.
(2) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom), seconded by Mr.  JUVIGNY (France), said that the resolution was a  most satisfactory one, and he moved its adoption,
(3) The resolution on page 2 was unanimously  adopted,
(4) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive  Board), referring to paragraph 7 on page 3 of docu-  ment 8C/ADM/24 Add. (building for the Executive  Board), said that the original proposal had been for  a separate building to accommodate the Executive  Board, but on closer consideration he had come to  the conclusion that the necessary space could be  found within the headquarters building itself.
(5) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom), seconded by Mr,  SUNDARAM (India), moved a recommendation to the  effect that the Director-General be authorized not to  proceed with the erection of a separate building for  the Board,
(6) The recommendation was unanimously adopted.
(7) Mr, JUVIGNY (France), seconded by Mr.  ARTHUR (United Kingdom), proposed that the Com-  mission take note, with approval, of documents
(8) The proposal was unanimously adopted.  ITEM 9.7.2 OF REVISED AGENDA: REPORT ON TRE  HEADQUARTERS AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE FRENCH  GOVERNMENT AND UNESCO (document 8C/ ADM/ 25)
(9) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom), secorded by  Mr. DE LOS SANTOS (Philippines), moved adoption  of the report,  - 631 -
(19) This proposal was adopted,
(11) The CHAIRMAN said that the speed with which  the report had been adopted indicated the Commis-  sion's faith in the Headquarters Committee. All  owed a debt of gratitude to the French Government  for its remarkable generosity.
(12) Mr. CABOUAT (France) thanked the Chairman  for the tribute he had just paid to his country, and  stated that the Headquarters agreement was in  course of ratification by the French Parliament, He  hoped to be able to inform the Ditector -General of  ratification within the next few weeks,  ITEM 8.3.5 OF REVISED AGENDA: RULES OF THE  APPEALS BOARD (document 8C/ADM/26)
(13) Mr. FARR (Chief, Bureau of Personnel and  Management) said that it was laid down in the Staff  Regulations that the Director-General should set up  machinery for appeals. Such machinery was set  up in April 1948 and the provisional rules of the  Appeals Board were approved by the Executive  Board and the General Confer.nce. At each succes-  sive session of the Conference, a resolution had been  passed carrying forward those provisional rules for  another two-year period,
(14) In June 1953, in accordance with a resolution  adopted at the seventh session, the Acting Director-  General had entered into an agreement with the ILO  Administrative Tribunal, with the approval of the  Executive Board, accepting the jurisdiction of that  body.
(15) The Director-General had considered it desir-  able to bring the statutes of the Appeals Board into  line with those of the ILO Administrative Tribunal,  The Executive Board had approved the draft statutes  now before the Commission and recommended their  adoption by the Conference, The new rules were  generally very similar to the old ones.
(16) In paragraph 5 of the new statutes, the Appeals  Board was authorized to consider appeals against  an administrative decision or against any discipli-  nary action where a staff member alleged that it  conflicted either in substance or in form with the  terms of his contract, or ‘vith any Staff Regulation  or Staff Rule relevant to his case, Thus the  Appeals Board would consider appeals of exactly the  same nature as those made to the 1L/)  Administrative Tribunal,
(17) In paragraph 6, provision was madc fur a staff  member, with the Director-General's co:sent, to  appeal to the ILO Administrative Tribunal direct,   v-23 ADMINISTRATIVE  without passing through the Appeals Board.
(18) Paragraph 23 laid down that paragraphs 5 and 6  could be amended only by the General Conference, and  the remainder of the statutes by the Executive Board  only, The Director-General had taken the view that,  since he himself was a party to appeals, some such  measure was only just.
(19) Mr. FRAGA IRIBARNE (Spain) drew attention,  in connexion with paragraph 23 of the Statutes of the  Appeals Board, to paragraph 2: the same measure  should be adopted in the reform of paragraph 2 as in  that of paragraphs 5 and 6, since, with reference to  the composition of the Board, paragraph 2 had the  same judicial importance.
(20) Paragraph 2 (c) provided that nc more than  three of the ten members in each group should be of  the same nationality, That nurber should be re-  duced from three to two, because the representatives  of two nationalities might come to form a majority  within a particular group.
(21) Mr. KELLY (Australia) enquired whether the  Staff Association had concurred,
(22) What was meant by the words "inefficiency or  relative efficiency", in paragraph 5 (b)?
(23) He agreed with the suggestion made by the dele-  gate of Spain in connexion with paragraph 2,
(24) Mr, JUVIGNY (France) pointed out that the  Appeals Board was not, properly speaking, a judicial  body, even though the word jurisdiction’ did occur  in the first line of paragraph 6 of its Statutes. That  body was not in fact a tribunal, but its decisions were  delivered in the form of quasi-legal verdicts,
(25) It was moreover to be seen, from the general  trend of the Appeals Board, that it was becoming  more and more a quasi-legal body. That was shown  in the opinion delivered in 1952 by the International  Institute of the Administrative Sciences, which was  composed of eminent lawyers from many lands.
(26) The Statutes of the Appeals Board enabled it to  examine in a truly independent spirit all cases sub-  mitted to it. It was the first instance of appeal to  which the Unesco.staff might resort, the second being  the Administrative Tribunal of the International  Labour Organization.
(27) Since the aim of the Appeals Board was to pro-  vide the staff of Unesco with certain guarantees, ‘it  had very properly been recognized that its jurisdic-  tion could only be defined by the General Conference,  Further, the French delegate thought there were no  grounds for granting the Executive Board sole res-  ponsibility for altering the rules of procedure of that  body,
(28) The questions of composition and procedure  were very important indeed. If the composition of  the Appeals Board were not laid down satisfactorily,  the Board would be in danger of losing its indepen-  dence. The fact that the appellant was allowed a  hearing, on the other hand, afforded him a very sound  guarantee which certainly ought to be retained.
(29) It might be maintained that the provisions of  paragraph 23 had been approved by the Executive  Board, but the Executive Board that had studied  those draft regulations, was not the same as the  Board, with its members representing 22 governments,    - 632 -  COMMISSION  that would be called upon, if necessary, to modify  them,
(30) The Commission had already dwelt on the need  to achieve equitable geographical distribution in the  Secretariat, In conformity with that policy, the  Secretariat would tend more and more to open its  doors to officials from an increasing number of  Member States. The guarantees offered to those  staff members should consequently emanate from  the General Conference alonc.
(31) To avoid prolonged discussion of the different  Rules, the French delegate proposed that the follow-  ing sentence be substituted for paragraph 23:  “Ine present Regulations may be amended only by  the General Conference",
(32) That new text should not be taken to mean that  the Executive Board would lose all authority in the  matter, It would still have the option of recom-  mending to the Conference any changes it deemed  desirable,
(33) The French delegation also had certain remarks  to make regarding paragraph 6, whose provisions  were much the same as those of the provisional re-  gulations. Mr, Juvigny did not question the practi-  cal value of that clause, since it enabled the  procedure to be speeded up.
(34) In questions such as those submitted to the  Appeals Board, however, the Director-General was  one party and the appellant (the staff member) the  other, But the two parties were not truly equal,  since the Director-General possessed powers which  enabled him, in all good faith, to influence the  appellant, Such a clause might therefore well be  regarded as deceptive,
(35) On the other hand, there was no doubt that the  Appeals Board enquired very seriously indeed into  cases submitted to it, The verdicts of the Adminis-  trative Tribunal of the International Labour Organi-  zation had acknowledged the value of the decisions of  the Unesco Appeals Board, which served as a  tribunal of first instance. The work carried out by  the Appeals Board was therefore of considerable  assistance to the Administrative Tribunal judges. In  the circumstances, the French delegation considered  that paragraph 6 might be abolished, and he moved  that a separate vote be taken on the point.
(36) In conclusion, Mr, Juvigny remined the Com-  mission that the Director-General had emphasized  the fact that all his decisions might be examined by  the Appeals Board and by the Administrative  Tribunal, and that he was ready to grant staff ail  necessary guarantees, The French delegation was  of the opinion that the modifications it suggested  would give more weight to the Director -General's  intentions,
(37) Miss LAISE {United States of America) was  somewhat concerned at the turn the discussion was  taking.
(38) As the delegate of France had said, the Appeals  Board was intended to be a piece of internal  machinery, not a judicial body duplicating the work  of the Administrative Tribunal.
(39) The Appeals Board was designed to provide the  Director-General with assistance in reaching  carefully considered decisions.
(40) The proposed statutes, if compared with those   ADMINISTRATIVE  of the very effective United Nations Appeals Board,  showed considerable room for improvement, In  Unesco, the appeals procedure was exceedingly  cumbersome and appeals might drag on for months.
(41) Thus, since the General Conference met but  once every two years, there ought to he some provi-  sion whereby the rules governing the operations of  the Board could be reviewed and if necessary  amended in the light of experience.
(42) For that reason she was emphatically against  the French proposal, to the effect that the General  Conference only should he empowered to amend the  statutes of the Board,
(43) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) agreed that the  Appeals Board was nor, strictly speaking, a tribunal,  but pointed out that its very name proved that it was  an instance of appeal, On the other hand, although  it was true that the Director-General had to appoint  members to the Board, the Board would only be able  to give sound opinions if it could base them on an  adequate knowledge of the legal factors involved.
(44) Mr. FARR (Chief, Bureau of Personnel and  Management) pointed out a typographical error in the  first line of paragraph 4 of the French text. The  English text: "The Bureau of Personnel and Manage-  ment and the Staff Association..." was correct.
(45) As regarded the question raised by the delegate  of Australia in connexion with paragraph 5 (b)  (inefficiency or relative efficiency), the idea was that  the Director-General might decide not to renew an  appointment, or to terminate an appointment, because  the staff member concerned had not given satisfaction,  or had given less satisfaction than might have been  expected.
(46) It had been asked why authority was being given  to the Executive Board to change the statutes of the  Appeals Board. The point was that under the pre-  vious rules certain practical difficulties had arisen  (for example, it might not be possible to find people  of the right nationality to serve on the Board). Accord  ingly, it was undesirable to have to wait two years  until the General Conference could change the statutes,
(47) The delegate of Australia had asked whether the  Staff Association had concurred in the proposals. Yes,  it had,
(48) Mr. KELLY (Australia) said thet, since the  Staff Association had expressed itself favourably, he  could accept the whole of the Statutes, including  paragraph 23, and he would move their adoption.
(49) Mr, NOGUEIRA (Uruguay) supported the two  proposals submitted by the French delegation for the  suppression of paragraph 6 and the amendment of  paragraph 23, Now that the structure of the Execu-  tive Board had been altered, the French proposal was  all the more important, and should be taken into  account,
(50) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive  Board) said that the Board had discussed paragraph 6  at some length. The opinion of the majority had been  that the staff member ought to be quite free to appeal  to the ILO Administrative Tribunal direct, if advised  to do so by the Staff Association. The initiative must  - 633 -     COMMISSION 7-23  corae from the staff member, not from the  Director-General,
(51) Mr. FRAGA IRIBARNE (Spain) pointed out that  it would be more logical to call that body "Consejo"  in Spanish rather than "Junta". The document under  discussion had been translated from the English, but  it was preferable to take the Spanish version from  the French, Apart from etymological reasons, the  word Junta was, historically speaking, not unexcep-  tionable. The proposed body should be called in  Spanish: Consejo de Apelacién.
(52) The CHAIRMAN replied that the Secretariat  accepted the proposal of the delegate of Spain,
(53) Paragraph 1 was adopted unanimously.
(54) Mr. FRAGA IRIBARNE (Spain) formally sub-  mitted his amendment to paragraph 2 (c), according  to which the last line should read: "Not more than  two of the ten members in each group shall be of the  same nationality".
(55) The amendment was adopted.
(56) Paragraph 2, as amended, was adopted  unanimously.
(57) Paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 were adopted unanimously.
(58) Mr. JUVIGNY (France) moved the deletion of  paragraph 6.
(59) Mr. KELLY (Australia) asked what was meant  by saying that a staff member could "waive the  jurisdiction of the Board", in paragraph 6. He would  propose the following wording: "Waive his right of  recourse to the Board".
(60) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL was willing to  accept the change proposed.
(61) The amendment was adopted.
(62) Paragrapn 6, as amended, was put to the vote  and adopted by 28 votes to 2, with 9 abstentions,
(63) Paragraphs 7 and 8 were adopted.
(64) Mr. BOW (Canada) moved the deletion of the  last sentence ("Evidence shall be voluntary.) in  paragraph 15. It was clear that the Board had no  power to compel a witness to give evidence, and the  effect of the sentence might merely be to frighten  the timid.
(65) Mr. JUVIGNY (France) thought that the last  sentence served a purpose. While the Chairman of  the Appeals Board could require a staff member to  appear, the refusal to do so could not carry with it  any sanction, He thought that that should allay the  fears of the Canadian delegate,
(66) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) thought there was no  idea of compelling an official to give evidence. The  Chairman of the Appeals Board could only question   V-23 ADMINISTRATIVE  witnesses wo came forward, In the circumstances,  he did not understand either the comments of the  Canadian delegate nor the reply of the French  delegate.
(67) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that a statement  to the effect that evidence should be voluntary might  give the impression that he was unable to oblige staff  members to testify, In fact, it was important that he  be empowered so to do.
(68) Mr. JUVIGNY (France) thought it desirable that  both parties should enjoy equal privileges, It would  not be very easy to require witnesses brought forward  by the Director-General to testify if those of the ap-  pelant were at liberty to appear or not as they chose,  It was therefore better to accept the fact that there  was no right of compulsion,
(69) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that there  appeared to be some risunderstanding. He ought to  be able to compel a staff member to give evidence if  the appeilant so desired. Not for one moment had he  wished to suggest that he should be authorized to call  witnesses on his own behalf only,
(70) Mr. ABEYWICKREMA (Ceylon), having  enquired what the Staff Association thought about the  proposal, it was agreed to interrupt discussion on  paragraphs 9-20 until a representative of the Staff  Association could be present.
(71) Mr. JUVIUNY (France) warmly appreciated the  generous interpretation of the clause in question just  given by the Director-General, He thought, however,  that if it were decided to alter that paragraph, it  should be so worded as to leave no ambiguity of  meaning.
(72) The Commission passed to paragraph 21.
(73) Miss LAISE (United States of America) asked  whether there was not some contradiction in sub-  paragraphs (a), (b) and (c). How could the proceed-  ings of the Board be confidential if appellants could  examine previous reports?
(74) Mr. FARR (Chief, Bureau of Personnel and  Management) said that the confidential records of the  Board dealt with what was said by the Board, meeting  in camera. The word "report" was the Board's  final considered judgment on a case, and was not the  same as a summary record of its proceedings. Ex-  perience had shown that it was helpful if an appeliant  could examine the reports on previous similar cases  in deciding whether or not to go forward with his  appeal.
(75) Paragraph 21 was adopted.
(76) Mr. BOW (Canada) proposed, in respect of  paragraph 22, that the words "the appellant may  nevertheless attend... "in the last line but one, should  read "the appellant has a right nevertheless to  attend...".
(77) This amendment was adopted.  - 634 -     COMMISSION
(78) Mr. MERMINOD (Switzerland) wondercd  whether it would not be fairer to empower the  Chairman of the Appeals Board to decide whether  the appellant should be present.
(79) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) approved the Swiss  delegate's suggestion,
(80) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that, since the  Board was merely an advisory body, to give the  Chairman of the Board such authority would be going  too far,
(81) Mr. MERMINOD (Switzerland) thought justice  required that the decision be left with the Chairman  of the Appeals Board. His proposal in no way im-  plied lack of confidence in the Director-General; it  merely aimed at providing a procedural guarantee,
(82) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that, if the  Swiss proposal were adopted, and a case were pend-  ing in Paris, the Chairman of the Appeals Board  would be able to recall the entire Secretariat from  Montevideo if he saw fit.
(83) Miss LAISE (United States of America) moved  the following amendment: "If the Director-General,  after consultation with the Chairman of the Appeals  Board, decides that the presence....".
(84) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) supported the  United States amendment, The Appeals Board was  merely an advisory body. Since the Director-  General was ultimately responsible for the finances  of the Organization, it was only just that he should  have the final decision.
(85) In view of the changes proposed by the United  States delegation to the amendment to paragraph 22,  and of the comments of the United Kingdom delegate,  Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) supported the United  States text,
(86) Mr, MERMINOD (Switzerland) said he would  not press the point, and withdrew his proposal.
(87) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that, if a staff  member appealed to the ILO Administrative Tribunal  against a decision by the Board, and the Tribunal  decided that his presence was necessary, he would  always be sent,
(88) The United States amendment was adopted.
(88) Paragraph 22, as amended, was adopted.
(90) The Commission then resumed its study of  paragraphs 9-20,
(91) Mr. HENQUET (representing the Staff Associa-  tion) stated that the Staff Association was in favour  of retaining the last sentence of paragraph 15, which  guaranteed that witnesses! evidence should be  voluntary,
(92) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) said that the  sentence "Evidence shall be voluntary" was ambiguous   ADMINISTRATIVE  it might be interpreted as meaning that the Director-  General could not compel staff members to give  evidence. It was obviously desirable that he should  have such authority. Or it could be interpreted as  meaning that a staff member was not compelled to  answer questions put to him by members of the  Appeals Board.
(93) The DIRECTOR -GENERAL said that, as he  interpreted the paragraph, he would still have  authority, even if the last sentence were deleted, to  compel staff members to appear before the Board.  But a staff member could not be compelled to answer  all conceivable individual questions which might be put  to him by the Board,
(94) Mr. FRAGA IRIBARNE (Spain) asked for an ex-  planation of the last sentence in paragraph 15. It  should provide thai a staff member was compelled to  appear before the Board, but not to give evidence. A  distinction should be made between the obligation to  appear, and the non-obligation to answer questions,  He added that the Spanish word "deponer" should be  replaced by the word "declarar”.
(95) Mr. BOW (Canada) said that, in view of the  explanations given, he would withdraw his proposal.
(96) Paragraphs 9-20 (procedure for appeal) were  adopted,
(97) The CHAIR ZL... recalled that the delegate of  France had pi .;~s~d that paragraph 23 read: "The  present regulations may be amended only by the  General Conference".
(88) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that, with the  amendment adopted in paragraph 2 (c) the whole  scheme might become inoperative. Nearly all staff  members in the General Service category were French  or British, with some Belgians and Swiss, since they  were locally recruited, Thus it might be impossible  to ensure that not more than "two of the ten members  in each group” should be of the same nationality .
(89) It was precisely to cope with such difficulties in  the intervals between sessions of the General Confer -  ence that provision was made in paragraph 23 for the  Executive Board to amend the statutes of the Board,  apart from paragraphs $ and 6.
(100) Mr. JUVIGNY (France) agreed that the amend-  ment adopted in paragraph 2 (c) might occasion  material difficulties which had not been foreseen,  However, the substantive arguments he had put for-  ward remained intact, He felt he should reopen  discussion of that amendment, since not all its conse-  quences had been pointed out at the time of its  adoption. Mr. Juvigny therefore wondered whether  the Spanish delegate would agree to the following  version of paragraph 2 (c):  “of the ten members in each group, a maximum of  two members shall be of the same nationality, unless  this is materially impossible",
(101) Mr. FRAGA IRIBARNE (Spain) would accept  any reasonable formula, such as that proposed by  the French delegate, As an alternative he suggested  - 635 -     COMMISSION v-23  that the officials of the same nationality in Group !  should be fixed at two, while those in Group Il were  maintained at three, He left the choice to the  Director-General.
(102) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said he had merely  given an example of the sort of thing that might make  a change in the statutes desirable,
(103) Unkind things had been said about the new  Executive Board. In its old form, the Board had  exercised powers of the kind described in paragraph
23 with outstanding fairness, and he was sure that  the new one would do so toa,
(104) Mr. JUVIGNY (France) pointed out that the  French delegation had no intention of adopting a  rigid attitude which would paralyse the work of the  Appeals Board, The jurisprudence of most coun-  tries distinguished between "basic provisions" and  “incidental formalities’. There was clearly always  room for a liberal interpretation of certain dates  and formalities when there was no threat to the  appellant's basic guarantees, What was really  important was to ensure that those guarantees were  not lisble to be questioned at any moment.
(105) The CHAIRMAN observed that he could not  receive amendments to paragraph 2 as adopted,  unless somebody formally moved that the  Commission revert to that paragraph.
(106) Mr. KELLY (Australia) moved that a vote be  taken forthwith on paragraph 23.
(107) The CHAIRMAN ruled that the Australian  motion had priority.
(108) Mr. FRAGA IRIBARNE (Spain) announced that  he accepted the priority of the French proposal. U  that were rejected, the Spanish delegation would  move that the General Conference be empowered to  amend not only paragraphs 5 and 6 of the statutes,  but also paragraph 2,
(109) The French amendment to paragraph 23 (to  the effect that the statutes of the Appeals Board  might be amended by the General Conference only)  was rejected by 19 votes to 7, with 14 abstentions,
(110) Mr. FRAGA IRIBARNE (Spain) again submit-  ted his amendment as previously announced: the  rirst sentence of paragraph 23 should read: “Para-  graphs 2, 5 and 6 may be amended only by the  General Conference". Paragraph 2, which dealt  with the composition of the Board, was just as  important as paragraphs 5 and 6, and should be  subject to the same terms of amendment,
(111) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) seconded the  Spanish delegate's proposal.
(112) The Spanish amendment to paragraph 23  ("Paragraphs 2, 5 and 6 may be amended only by  the General Conference. ..') was adopted by 16 votes  to 11, with 11 abstentions.
(113) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) thought that the   V-23 ADMINISTRATIVE  General Conference had the right to amend all the  paragraphs in the statute, and that, in drafting  paragraph 23, the aim had certainly not been to grant  the Executive Board the sole right to amend certain  clauses, The main object of those arrangements had  been to stipulate that the Director -General should not  be authorized to alter the statutes, Accordingly he  moved that the words "'or by the General Conference"  be added at the end of paragraph 23,
(114) Mr, BAUGNIET (Belgium) thought it should be  enough to remove the negative and to read: "The  remainder of the statutes and the Appendix may be  modified by the Executive Board",
(115) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) maintained his pro-  posal as being perfectly explicit,
(116) The amendment proposed by Mr. Haguiwara  was approved,
(117) Paragraph 23, as amended, was finally  approved by 35 votes to nil, with four abstentions.
(118) Mr. FRAGA IRIBARNE (Spain) said that, in  view of the explanations given by the Director-  General, he accepted the principle of including no  more than two officials of the same nationality in  Group I, and no more than three of the same  nationality in Group II,
(119) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) thought that there  need pe no hesitation in restoring the original word-  ing of paragraph 2 (c), since the principle of equitable  geographical distribution was clearly stated in the  following sub-paragraph (d).
(120) Mr, ARTHUR (United Kingdom) preferred the  original text of paragraph 2 (c) as proposed by the  Director-General, under which there was no danger  of inequitable geographical distribution of members of  the panel, He was, however, prepared to vote in  favour of the Spanish amendment, In view of the  difficulties invoked by the Director-General, he could  not support the Japanese amendment.
(121) The Spanish amendment to paragraph 2 (c) was  adopted by 30 votes to 0, with 9 abstentions,
(122) Paragraph 2, as amended, was adopted.
(123) Mr. FRAGA IRIBARNE (Spain) did not see any  need to submit the Appendix to the Commission for  its approval, It was an administrative formula, not  a legal text, and there was no call for such a  proceeding,
(124) The CHAIRMAN ruled that the Appendix should  be submitted to the Commission for its approval, as  paragraph 23 read "The remainder of the statutes and  the Appendix may be amended only by the Executive  Board", which meant that the Commission's approval  of the Appendix was also reqiired.
(125) The Appendix was adopted.
(126) Document 8C/ADM/26 as a whole was put to  - 636 -     COMMISSION  the vote and adopted by 39 in favour, none against  and 2 abstentions.  ITEM 9.5.9 OF REVISED AGENDA: RECOGNITION OF THE  COMPETENCE OF INTERNATIONAL ADMINISTRATIVE  TRIBUNALS (document 8C/ADM/18)
(127) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that the pur-  pose of the document was merely to extend for  another two yeara the authorization given to the  Director-General to arrange for the 1LO Adminis-  trative Tribunal to hear cases of the sort mentioned  in the document.
(128) It was also proposed that the jurisdiction of  the United Nations Administrative Tribunal be  permanently accepted in appeals by Unesco staff  members alleging non-observance of Pensions Fund  Regulations.
(129) Mr. ATTAGARA (Thailand), seconded by Mr,  POHL {Union of South Africa), moved that the Com-  mission recommend the Conference to adopt the  resolution in paragraph 6.
(130) The proposal was unanimously adopted.
(131) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that adoption  of the resolution raised an incidental problem,
(132) The Administrative Tribunal had recently  awarded a few hundred dollars to a Unesco staff  member, He had assumed that acceptance of the  jurisdiction of that Tribunal would automatically  involve authorization to spend money to pay such  awards, The auditors, however, had questioned the  regularity of such a decision. Although they had  eventually accepted his explanations, he needed some  authorization to cover cases of that kind.
(133) No provisions were made in the budget for  such awards, and it was exceedingly difficult to  estimate in advance how much money would be  required for the purpose.
(134) There was a possibility of using the Working  Capital Fund; that could be done by adding a clause  to the resolution on ex.raordinary and unforeseen  expenditures,
(135) Alternatively, the Conference could amend its  resulution carrying forward a surplus of $600, 000  to the ninth session, That, to him, seemed the  more attractive course, But he would like advice  from the Commission before the question wus  raised in the General Committee, since it was a  serious matter to reopen a decision already taken by  the Conference. : ;
(136) Mr. POHL (Union of South Africa) asked  whether there were any cases pending.
(137) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL: No.
(138) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) thought the proce-  dure whereby such awards would‘be paid from budget  surpluses was too complicated, It would be simpler  to consider such outlays as unforeseen expenditure  and to pay them from the Working Capital Fund.
(139) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that such a   ADMINISTRATIVE  procedure would involve submitting a resolution to  the ninth session to the effect that the money be  repaid to the Working Capital Fund,
(140) Miss LAISE (United States of America) said  that she had abstained in the vote on document
8C/ADM/ 26.
(141) As regarded the matter under discussion, she  would point out that the Working Capital Fund belonged  to governments and had to be replenished. It seemed  simpler to have recourse to a system which would not  entail reimbursement,
(142) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) said that the  Conference had already decided not to apply the  financial Regulations to budget surpluses, i.e, to  carry those surpluses forward pending a decision at  the ninth session. If, now, the eighth session used  such surpluses for the paymen: of awards, the ninth  session would be unable to use them in accordance  with the Financial Regulations. Its hanas would be  tied,
(143) The Working Capital Fund seemed the obvious  source for such payments, but the problem was a  difficult one, needing further study, He would  therefore abstain in any vote on the matter,
(144) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) enquired what would  be the maximum expenditure for any one case, Could  it be covered by transfers effected by the Board?  {145) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL could give no idea  of the amount of such awards, There might be no  awards at all. Nevertheless, he required an  authorization to make such payments,
(146) Miss LAISE (United States of America) agreed  that more time was needed. Account shouid be  taken of experience acquired by the United Nations,  which was setting up a fund for such purposes, to be  financed out of the Staff Assessments Scheme.
(147) Mr. POHL (Union of South Africa) suggested  that the Commission decide in favour of the principle  - 637 -     COMMISSION v-23  involved, and consider later where the money should  come from,
(148) Mr. JUVIGNY (France) pointed out that it was im-  possible to foresee how many such cases might come  before the Administrative Tribunal, in how many the  administration might be declared liable, and the amount  it might be required to pay, lt seemed to him more-  over that, once Unesco had recognized the jurisdiction  of the Administrative Tribunal, it must likewiseaccept  the possible outcome of that decision. The opinion  expressed on 13 July 1954 by the International Court  of Justice left no doubt on the point,
(149) Mr. Juvigny proposed therefore that the Com-  missionfirst take its decision of principle, and leave  till later the question how payment should be made.
(150) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) concurred in the  comments of the South African and French delegates.  He suggested that the Conference should authorize  the Director-General to pay any amounts which  Unesco might be required to pay as a result of a  verdict delivered by an administrative tribunal re-  cognized by the Organization. The Director-General  would have the right to use the Working Capital Fund  for the purpose, subject to a decision to be taken by  the Conference at its ninth session on ways of  reimbursing the Working Capital Fund,
(151) Miss LAISE (United States of America) was  against taking any such decision. The regulations of  the 1LO Administrative Tribunal made provision for  further appeal to the International Court, and it might  in certain circumstances be argued that Unesco had  no obligation to pay. It would be better merely to  authorize the Director-General to use certain funds  to meet such expenditure, if any.
(152) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) said that at the after-  noon meeting he would submit a written proposal to  the effect that the Director-General be authorized to  draw on the Working Capital Fund for such purposes.  The meeting rose at 1,05 p.m,