PROGRAMME AND  would be broken, and objectives of a different kind  would assert themselves,
(88) In Mr. Photiades' view, the aim should be to  make Unesco more universal in its own fields, but  without encroaching on the universality of other  Specialized Agencies, or on universality as con-  ceived in the sphere of politics,
(88) The Greek delegation thought it desirable for  delegates to take more interest in organizations  for intellectual co-operation, with the aim of  broadening Unesco's whole cultural scope.
(80) Mr, RIEGNER (Conference of International  Non-Governmental Organizations having Consult-  ative Arrangements with Unesco) drew the Com-  mission's attention to document 8C/PRG/21, con-  taining the observations made by the non-govern-  mental organizations after a meeting to which they  had been invited for consultation by the Director-  General,
(91) Mr. Riegner thanked the Director-General for  enabling those organizations to meet twice to  examire the future programme of Unesco with  members of the Secretariat, and expressed the  hope that the practice would continue to be adopted  in juture,  {92) He also wished to convey the satisfaction felt  by the non-governmental organizations at seeing  that the Director-General and the Executive Board  nad, in their reports tn the General Conference,  drawn special attention to the importance they    BUDGET COMMISSION IV-5  attached to the co-operation of such organizations  with Unesco,
(93) Anxious though he was not to encroach on the  right of individual organizations to put forward their  comments on Unesco's programme, Mr. Reigner  pointed out that there was full agreement among those  organizations in regard to certain problems raised  before the Commission.  {94} The non-governmental orgamzations had been  unanimous in hoping that the General Conference, at  its eighth session, would adopt the higher spending  level as expressed in the draft appropriation resolution.
(95) The Conference of Non-Governmental Organiza-  tions likewise welcomed the emphasis laid in the new  programme on projects corresponding to particular  needs of certain Member States, It considered.  however, that it woula be dangerous to stabilize the  budget for permenent activities promoting inter -  national co-operation on an international scale,
(96) After drawing attention to certain aspects of the  above-mentioned document, and particularly to the  observations regarding ways of strengthening co-  operation between Unesco, its National Commissions  and its Secre:ariat, on the one hand, and the inter-  national non-governmental organizations, on the  other, Mr. Riegncr concluded by assuring the Com-  mission of the devotion of those organizations to the  ideals and work of Unesco.  The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m.  FIFTH MEETING
19 November 1954 at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland)  ITEM 8.2 OF THE REVISED AGENDA CONSIDERATION OF THE  REPORT OF THE ADVISORY COMMITTEE AND GENERAL  DISCU’ SION OF THE DRAFT PROGRAMME AND BUDGET FOR
(1) Mr, KOVAL (Ukrainian Soviet Socialist  Republic) felt that in 1955-56 Unesco should begin  to implement the recommendations put forward  at international conferences in Geneva in 1953 and
1954 on the promotion nf fundamental education,  the use of the mother tonpue in th: various countries  and free secc dary schoc..ng, In that connexion,  he referred to the Uruguayan proposal regarding  completely free schooling.
(2) Speaking nf the natural and social sciences, he  was in favour of the measures to provide technical  aid, the clearing house fur information in the social  sciences, and ai ! to international organizations  contributing to the development of scientific co-  operation.
(3) The cultur:1 bodies of the Ukraine were ready  to take part in preparing a history of the scientific  and cultural development of mankind, and in  promoting scien’ fic and cultural exchanges.
(4) Mr, Koval was also in favour of the technical  and economic assistance requested by the under-  developed countries from the United Nations. It  should not be Lonfined to sending out specialists  and giving expert advice. He thought that Unesco's  administrative costs should be cut, and that the  savings should be devoted to the technical assistance  programme,
(5) The Ukraiman delegate hoped that the General  Conference would not miss any opportunity of  fostc ring mutual understanding among the peoples  and helping to solve the problems of safeguarding  international peace and security, Hs delegation  particularly approved the proposals put forward by  India with regard to the peaceful utilization of  atomic energy and the insertion in the Conference   IV-5 PROGRAMME AND  agenda of the ite:n concerning the possibility of  peaceful coexistence for dufering systems of  government, The delegate added that such peaceful  coexistence was a basic principle of the foreign  policy of the USSR.
(6) Lastly, Mr. Koval supported the Soviet Union's  proposal to prohibit the use of the means of mass  communication for spreading war propaganda and  imperilling international co-operation and economic  and cultural relations between the peoples,
(7) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) drew attention to the  clarity and originality of the form in which the  proposed programme and budget was presented,  and its division into two parts: (1) established  service activities of the Secretariat, and (2) pro-  gramme activities, He added that the division had  a practical counterpart in the execution of the  programme but thought that it was possibly arti-  ficial in one respect, since it was impossible to  make a clear-cut distinction bewween the two phases  of Unesco's work - the collection and classification  by the Secretariat of material obtained from the  Member States, and the use of that material In  programme activiiies, The Lebanese delegate  considered that the natural link between the two  phases had not been made clear enough.
(8) In that connexion, Mgr Maroun stressed the  direct relationship between the development of the  permianent service activities and the programme  activities; he was uneasy about the possible out-  come of certain proposals for the final stabilization  of the budget for the permanent services; such a  decision, he thought, would result in a sort of  petrifaction of services, which should be kept  flexible to match the programme.
(9) Referring to Part II of the document, the  Lebanese delegate noted the efforts made to balance  the vario'is activities in the Unesco programme,  but he perceived two rather serious shortcomings.  He feit that the purely technical side of the conduct  of educational activities received too much attention  compared with the content of educational pro-  grammes, which he thought regrettably meagre.  He remarked that there had been nu systematic  effort, until the current year, to knit culture into  ed'ication, of which it was, however, part.
(10) A second shortcoming in Mgr Maroun's view  was the unimportant place apparently given in the  programme to contacts between intellectuals,  Whenever the budget was discussed, many voices  were raised against aid to non-governmental  organizations, He thought, however, that it was  Unesco's duty te foster international co-operation  between intellectuals. He considered that delega-  tions should have sufficient courage and understand-  ing not to begrudge cultural activities and inter-  national co-operation the appropriations they needed.
(11) Mr. UMREIKO (Byelorussian Soviet Socialist  Republic) said that the activities in the programme  which he favoured most were those which aimed at  developing international understanding, s .ence,  national culture and education in all Member States,
(12) With regard to fundamental education and the  literacy campaign, the delegate stressed the  importance of practical steps to provide schooling  BUDGET     - 290 -  COMMISSION  for all children in all countries without distinction  of race, sex, language, material circumstances  or social background, and urged the need for such  measures, He favoured the Uruguayan proposal  for free schooling at every stage, and regarded it  as essential that all children should have the  opportunity of primary and, if possible, secondary  education.
(13) He had no objection to the budgetary proposals  for educational aid to underdeveloped countries in
1955-56, With regard to technical assistance, his  Government was not opposed to the expanded pro-  gramme of technical assistance for economic  development, His Government could provide such  assistance by sending experts and samples of  machinery to the underdeveloped countries and  by undertaking to train specialists from those areas,
(14) With regard to the natural sciences, the
1955-56 programme should be directed towards  assisting in the scientific stud: of questions con-  cerned with raising the standard of living and
1mproving social conditions. In that connexion,  he was in favour of the scientific study of methods  of fighting cancer and also of the draft resolution  of the Indian delegation for the peaceful use of  atomic energy.
(15) Unesco's work in the social sciences and  cultural activities should tend during 1955-56  toward the lessening of international tension, and  his delegation would not oppose the allocation of  funds to non-governmental organizations genuinely  concerned with the spread of science, culture and  education,
(16) Mr. Umreiko supported the principle, put  forward by the United Kingdom, of basing the
1955-56 budget on the present level, but he might  approve certain additional expenditures occasioned  by the admission ot new members,
(17) He drew particular attention to the part of  the programme dealing with mass communication,  In his view, the media of communication should be  used to promote the ideas of peace, friendship and  mutual understanding between nations, together  with education, science and culture, Accordingly,  his delegation supported the draft resolution of the  USSR to prevent the use of such media for war  propaganda,
(18) Mr. PAZUR (Czechoslovakia), alluding to the  remarks of previous speakers, urged that the pro-  gramme be organized so as to concentrate to a  great extent on a limited number of important items.  He considered that education should come first  among all Unesco's activities, because the  problems arising in connexion with 1t throughout  the world were so vast, He approved the Organiza-  tion's programme of technical assistance to under-  developed countries,
(19) He endorsed the 1deas expressed by the  delegations which had urged that greater emphasis  be placed in the programme on the 1dea of human  fellowship and international understanding based  on peaceful coexistence, and he referred in  particular to India, France and Switzerland,
(20) He would like Unesco to take steps to have that  idea suitably incorporated in teaching syllabuses,  school textbooks and the work of teachers themselves.   PROGRAMME AND
(21) The Czechoslovak delegate also considered that  Unesco tended to overlook the international pheno-  menon of films and books that glamourized crime  in every form and exercised a bad influence on the  upbringing of children. The harm done was  causing grave concern to parents, teachers and  even the judicial authorities and the legislatures  in many countries, The same considerations  applied to the glorification of crimes against inter-  national law and the lauding of war criminals,  Unesco should see that, in future, education was  free of such influences and it could do so only by  overruling the Advisory Committee's recommenda-  tion for the rejection of India's proposal on peace-  ful coexistence,
(22) In the hope of seeing the propocat adopted and  implemented, the Czechoslovak uelegation wished to  submit an amendmen. «uv «ne draft resolution of  the Indian delegation.
(23) Mr. BERNAL JIMENEZ (Colombia) was in  agreement with the approved principle thai, before  deciding on the content of the programme, the  budget ceiling should be set, Projects logically  depended on the financial provision made for them.
(24) In the Director-General's introduction to the  proposed programme and budget, it was proposed  that the amount of contributions from new Member  States for the years 1953-54 should be used for  financing the budget for 1957-58, The proposed  course of action showed prudence but would retard  the impulse to expansion and revitalization which  everyone wished to see in Unesco's future work.  It would perhaps be possible and, as things were,  more appropriate, to use the new revenue in the  budget for 1955-56,
(25) Another question requiring consideration was  the concentration of the programme, Colombia was  perhaps the first country to set forth the need for  such action, as early as the Florence session of  the General Conference, In view of the wide field  covered by Unesco, there were many temptations  to disperse its efforts in a multitude of sectors;  but a cautious policy should be adopted to ensure  that those efforts were concentrated on a limited  number of large-scale projects, And those projects  should have a close bearing on the objects for  which the Organization had been established.
(26) In the detailed debate on the various chapters  of the programme, the delegation of Colombia  would again speak on other problems of interest  to it, such as National Commissions, technical  assistance, fundamental education centres, etc.
(27) Mrs, SCHROEDER (Catholic International  Union for Social Service) drew attention to a  statement in the Directer-General's report, in  connexion with a resolution of the Economic and  Social Council of the United Nations, that economic  development was inseparable from social develop-  ment. Social service was designed principally to  improve family life and could make no progress  without the help of economists, doctors, teachers  and social welfare workers, all of whom were  concerned with educational work.
(28) With regard to the discussion concerning  methods of measuring the cultural standards of    BUDGET COMMISSION IV-5  peoples, what mattered was the number of healthy  families and men equipped to cope with life, far  more than the number of schools, libraries, etc.  For that purpose, an enquiry would have to be  carried out in all countries on the standard of  family life. Its results would reveal the real  standai d of living. The Catholic International  Union for Social Service was ready to give Unesco  the benefit of its experience and all the help in its  power in such an investigation, which would suggest  what should be done to raise living standards.
(29) Again, Unesco's aims in education should not  lead it simply to teaching people to read and write,  It was quite as important to help in the training of  good fathers, good mothers, good workmen and  good citizens,
(30) Non-governmental orgarizations were nearer  to the life of the people, were in a position to  accomplish their objectives, and carry out useful  work for international co-operat:on, since they  were concerned not with governments but with  their citizens. Those organizations had started  their work before Unesco had attempted to bring  governments together to achieve the objects sett,  The financial resources they used in that work  were greater than those available to Unesco.
(31) Consequently, the Catholic International  Union for Social Service asked that a distinc tion  be drawn betwee three classes of activities:  those directly initiated by Unesco; those under:  taken at the request of “Member States, and those  carried out at the instance of the non-governmental  organizations,
(32) Dr. STEINBERG (World Jewish Congress) was  grateful for the opportunity given him to express his  views to the Commission. Ît was a great privilege  to be in Montevideo as an observer at the General  Conference of Unesco, where the believers in its  mission were together examining the future work of  the Organization. The World Jewish Congress,  which he was representing, had the benefit of the  views of both believers and critics,
(33) It was the opinion of his organization that  Unesco was proceeding steadily, if slowly, towards  its goal. It saw in the present draft programme  the significance of its main theme, which vas  education for living in a world cozramumity; the  whole programme seemed to subordinate itself  to that main theme,
(34) He thought, however, that the programme  took much for granted and did not appreciate the  real world situation. In evaluating that situation,  it could be seen that many were strong opponents  of the principle of education for living in a world  community and, if the General Conference did not  take that into account, the programme would not be  the best means to the desired end: it would have  to cure what it had not succeeded in preventing,
(35) He welcomed the emphasis which the pro-  gramme put on vital necessities, particularly in  the spheres of school curricula and the social  sciences; it was essential that people should be  educated to meet the situation which faced them,  He also welcomed the inclusion of special  projects which indicated that Unesco was taking  steps to solve fundamental problems.  - 291 -
(36) The World Jewish Congress was co-oparating  with Unesco in the fields of education, sociai  science and cultural activities and asked perrnis-  sion to comment on the relevant chapters of tte  programme at a later stage.
(37) The CHAIRMAN summed up the general dis-  cussion just held, which, he noted, had been of a  very high order,
(38) Paying tribute to the sense of fellowship  shown throughout the debate, he urged delegates  to make every effort to arouse similar sentiments  among all taking part in the Conference,
(39) He also noted the apparently general determi-  nation to consider the programme as a whole and  hoped that in the subsequen* discussions emphasis  would also be placed on keeping the programme  flexible,
(40) Finally, the Commission had, he thought,  shown its desire to base action on the needs of  Member States and, wherever n2cessary, to call  on the services of non-governmeatal organizations.  The latter, for their part, were v2ry ready to  furnish their assistance in Unesco's work,  CONSIDERATION OF THE REPORT BY THE EXFCI TIVE BOARD  rdocurent 8C PRG 13) ON THE REMODELLING OF 1HF FUTURE  PROGRAMME OF UAEMO
(41) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive  Board), giving a brief outline of the history of  document 8C/PRG/13, said that discussion in  November 1953 by the Executive Board on the  possible remodelling of the programme had brought  to light four points. Disappointment had been ex-  pressed that Unesco had not made its expectad  impact on Member States, on leaders and on the  masses, the National Commissions were not doing  the work which had been expected of them; more  use of regionalism should be made in planning  Unesco's programme, and, in the programme,  there was too wide a dispersion of effort. In  March 1954, the Executive Board had given those  points to the Mirector-General for guidance in  drafting the yr,gramme for 1955-56 and, at its  meeting in Verice in the summer, had set up a  small drafting committee which had drafted docu-  ment 8C/PRG/ 13. That document had been agreed  to in its present form by all the memters of the  Executive Board with the exception of one,
(42) It was divided into two main parts, the first  containing criticisms about what had not been  achieved by Unesco and praise of achievements,  and the second containing the main matter, the  structure of the programme itself, The second  part of the document divided the programme into  two parts, relating, on the one hand, to general  or continuing activities and, on the other, to  special activities. Part I of the programme would  include activities of interest to all Member States,  while Part Il would include special activities  dealing with specific problems affecting the re-  quirements of individual Member States.
(43) He had heard some delegations expressing  anxiety about the position of general activities  under the proposed remodelling and pointed out    BUDGET COMMISSION  that the Executive Board had stated in paragraph
19 of its report that it considered that the general  activitivs provided the basis of the programme,  without which Unesco would be unable to carry out  its Spec:al activities,
(44) Further, he had heard some delegates say  that they did not agree that the major part of the  budget should be devoted to Part II of the pro-  gramme - special activities, In answer to that, he  pointed out that, in the past two programmes, the  proportion of the budget devoted to general activi-  ties and special activities was substantially the  same as that proposed for the 1955-56 programme,
(45) With regard to Part II of the programme, the  Executive Board haa stressed the necessity for  concentrating on major projects, ‘That theme had  been repeated at every General Conference and,  in his opinion, the time had come when a General  Conference must give the Director-General  guidance on what 1t meant by concentration.
(48) He drew the attention of the Commission to the  concentration of efforts between Agencies when  dealing with common problems and hoped that  greater co-cperation between such Agencies would  materialize in the future,
(47) The Board did not like the term "technical aid”  because 1t would be confused with technical  assistance, He hoped that a better term would be  found. ‘Lechnical aid would be given to any Member  State requesting it. The Board felt that technical  ais should be asked for because then .t would tulfil  the wishes of a particular Member State. The  Member State would play 1ts full part and, in doing  so, would become interested in the work of Unesco  and stimulate the National Commissions 1n their  work.
(47) The Executive Board hoped that the Com-  p ission and the General Conference would give the  Director-General clear instructions for the pre-  paration of the 195/-58 programme without going  into detail, leaving the question of balance between  the two parts of the programme to the Director-  General to decide in the best interests of the work  of Unesce,
(49) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Chairman of the  Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget)  said that he had little to add to what had been said  in the report of his Committee (document 8C/BUD/2).  The Committee wished to express its satisfaction  with the spirit in which document 8C/PRG/13 had  been drafted and its approval of the proposed  modifications,
(50) Two problems on which adequate guidance had  to be given to the Director-General appeared to  confront the General Conference, In the first place,  there was the problem of the structure of the  programme and the balance which should be main-  tained between general activities and special  activities, The Coramittee had felt that it would  be harmful to attempt to fix the proportion of the  budget to be allocated to each of those categories  of activities and had agreed with the Executive Board  that the essential interdependence of the permanent  services and of the activities concerning  direct aid to Member States should not be  overlooked.  - 292 -   PROGRAMME AND
(51) The second problem was that of concentration,  which had been the subject of so much previous dis-  cussion. The Committee considered taat 11 was  essential to give the Director-General guidance in  that matter in order that he could prepare the  programme for 1957-58, In particular, it would  be necessary to have a decision whether the re-  commendation of the Executive Board to co.'centrate  on a limited number of major projects aimer at  sclving specific problems should be followed, The  choice of such projects and the definition of  methods of implementation were two fundamental  questions on which the General Conference would  be asked to advise,
(52) The Advisory Committee had recommended  that the General Conference should formulate and  adopt the necessary measures for implementing  the principles contained in document 8C/PRG/13,  either through working parties or through the  Advisory Committee itself. The procedure,  criteria and stages of implementation would have  to be established for obtaining a solution of major  projects.
(53) He repeated, in concluding, that the General  Conference would have to try and provide the  Director-General with clear instructions to enable  him to draw up specific plans in 1955-56 for re-  modelling the programme for 1957-58,
(54) The CHAIRMAN suggested the following  procedure for the discussion: (1) delegates would  be asked for their opinion on the advisability of  dividing activities into the two proposed groups;
(2) the Commission would deter mine the criteria  on which the division should be based; (3) it  would consider the ratio in which each grovr should  stand within the programme as a whole,
(55) Mr. BARBEY (Switzerland) began by making  a general comment; the Swiss delegation was  inclined to say that document 8C/PRG/13 did great  credit to the Executive Board as it had been con-  stituted to date, but it cid not wish to stress that  point lest it seem to be desirous of influencing the  Conference's decision on a proposal which a  majority was apparently already prepared to  support,
(56) The delegate of Switzerland considered that  the report of the Executive Board owed its value  entirely to the fact that it was based on self-  examination and self-criticism. The difficulties  and disappointments recorded in paragraphs 1 to
6 made paragraph 9, dealing with achievements,  stand out all the more, and account should be taken  of that in devising satisfactory and well-grounded  propaganda, If the document were approved, it  would at once furnish the Commission with criteria  for its subsequent work; Mr, Barbey thought,  however, that it would be better to study it as a  whole rather than paragraph by paragraph.
(57) Dr. MUDALIAR (India) expressed satisfaction  with document 8C/PRG/13 and gratitude to the  Executive Board for having undertaken such a  task. His Government was satisfied with the  proposed division of programme. He was of  opinion that, while general activities of a world-    BUDGET TOMMISHINN 1v-5  wide nture should rece,ve due consideration,  emphasi: should be placed on general activities  and specisl activities having a field of limited  application. Unesco should act as a catalytic agent,  the Director-Guneral making direct contact with  the Member States to Interest them in Unesco's  work.
(58) As to the details of the programme, he thought  that, although non-governme: tal organizations con-  tributed to the success of Unesco. greater emphasis  should be put on their truly international character.  Certain of the non-governmental organizations  which were assiuting Unesco had not been heard of  by some Member States and should be encouraged  to extend their membership and activities on a  global basis. Suhventions should be kept at a level  necessary for carrying out Unesco's work. To  further chat (dea, hz was in agreement with the  Executive Board tha! substantial subventions should  be given to a limited number ‘of recipients,
(59) He thought that inore support should be given  to National Commissions and, in that connexion,  it would be helpful to have the occasional presence  of the heads of departments of the secretariat at  meetings of National Commissions,  Forther, joint  meetings of the National Commissions In a  particular area could be neld, which would have a  greater effect than a meeting of a single Miticnal  Commission, and would er.courage collaboration  in Unesco's activities in that area. He did not  think that consideration of the geographical distri-  bution of activities was neces» ry e<cept in the case  of problems which we: e comr .on to all or in. ny  Member States. Unes«o shou'd he an agency tu  stimulate and guide the effort: of its Meinber States.
(60) The internal activities of Unesco should be  co-ordinated more closely to g.ve better results.  Departments should consult with each other to see  that a maximum effort was at the disposal of any  project.
(61) It was also essential that States benefiting  from technical aid should make their contributions  to any project being undertaken, The resources of  a beneficiary Member State should be fully explored,  not only for reasons of econorny, but for psy« ho-  logical reasons. The people of a country receiving  aie would! show more interest 1n a project if they  felt that they were playing an active part in it.
(62) The Indian delegation considered the report  excellent and would like to have it sent to the”  National Commissions of Member States for  comments, In the past, the policy of allowing  Member States to submit suggestions on the  proposed programme had not been too successful,  It would be better if Member States were asked to  make suggestions a year before the programme  was formulated in order that the Director-General  could appreciate the requirements of the various  Member States and take them into account when  planning the programme, He suggested, therefore,  that the report should be forwarded to Member  States for cominents within a period of six or  nine months, with a request that suggestions for  the programme for 1957-58 should be made  within that period,
(63) Mr, FRANCOIS (F: ance) thought that earlier  - 293 -   IV-5 PROGRAMME AND  Unesco programmes did not deserve all the criti-  cisms heaped upon them, In his view, the disap-  pointments and failures recorded had always been  mainly due to the exiguity of Unesco's budget,  Unesco's budget, which amounted to less than the  cost of ten bombers or one light cruiser, was  approxima'ely the same as that of a French  department; and, in France, the functions a  department was required to fulfil were strictly  limited, The French delegate thought that another  cause of inefficiency was that policies were too  often changed, and activities which failed to show  spectacular results were abandoned too soon. In  the third place, he thought that responsibility for  the Organization's failures also lay partly with  the National Commissions,
(64) The French delegation approved the distinction  made between general and special activities,  provided that the two groups of activities were not  completely separated, and that any increase in  funds for the latter category automatically brought  with it an increase in those for the former.
(65) Qucting the example of the bilateral revision  of school textbooks undertaken by France with  Germany and the United Kingdom, he pointed out  that the success of the work had been due not only to  the assistance given by teachers but also, and above  all, tu the co-operation vf historians, which had  made it possible to present certair events in their  «ue light, That, he thought, was proof that  theorists should be asked to play their part  in carrying out practical activities.
(66) With regard to the section of document
8C/PRG/13 dealing with general activities, the  French delegate felt obliged to mention that he was  uneasy about item E,
(67) He had the impression that public infor mation  activities were to be limited to propaganda, where-  as what was chiefly needed was education, and the  collaboration not only of specralized agencies and  scholars but also of educators.
(68) With regard to the special activities, Mr.  François thought it difficult to lay down a list in  advance; the activities should be choser as the  different chapters of the programme came up for  discussion.
(69) Turning to the question of progressive con-  centration on major projects, the French delegate  pointed out that, if too much attention were given to  such concentration, Unesco's activities might  become set in too unchanging a mould; it was wise  to have an eye to the future and to pave the way for  subsequent action on the part of the Organization,  and, from that point of view, it would be wise to  maintain a reasonable variety of activities.
(70) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) proposed  the following amendments to document 8C/PRG/13:
(71) Paragraph 19. Add: "Through the investiga-  tions and studies they include, they provide  material for the preparation of future programmes  of action”.
(72) Paragraph 20, Add: "and these studies’,
(73) Paragraph 23, After E, add: "F, The in-  vestigation and study of fresh subjects with a view  to the preparation of future programmes of  action".  Bu     - 294 -  bG ET COMMISSION
(74) After paragraph 36, add a new section, in the  following terms:  "F. Investigations and studies,  If the Organization 1s to be able to submit to the  Gener al Conference well considered proposals for  action and to suggest methods for their implementa-  tion, worked out in adequate detail, it must carry  out investigations and studies of subjects which  might later give rise to practical undertakings, The  subjects might be suggested by the General Con-  ference, the Executive Board and National Com-  missions, The methods of study might include:  consultations with international, governmental  and non-governmental organizations;  contacts between members of the Secretariat  and appropriate persons and institutions;  wark carried out by experts under contracts;  finally, at a later stage, meetings of experts to  formulate conclusions on the results achieved",
(75) The Brazilian delegate also proposed the  following amendment to the report of the Advisory  Committee on Programme and Budget (document
8C/BUD/2):  Paragraph 12. After the phrase, "for the  solution. ... future programme’, add: "for the  purpose of guiding this selection, and enabling the  appronriate procedures to be defined, the Secre-  tariat must undertake investigations and studies  bearing on fields and problems which are not  included in the list of projects in the concentrated  programme, but which are necessary for the  preparation of future programmes. It is suggested  that in the first section of the programme of each  department (general activities) explicit mention  should continue to be made of investigations and  studies, This part of the programme will include  for each biennial period a list of subjects from  among which the Director-General will select, in  consultation with the Executive Board, those on  which he will arrange for ‘he departments to con-  centrate. This part may account for only a small  proportion of the budget of cach of the  programme departments. It is in the light of the  results secured from these investigations and  studies that the Director-General will subsequently  be able to make definite proposals with regard to  the programme of the next biennial period",
(76) Mr. Berredo Carneiro explained that his aim 1n  making his proposals was solely to help the Secre-  tariat in planning its future work so that improvisa-  tion would be unnecessary.
(77) Mr, VERONESE (Italy) recalled that, as a  member of the Executive Board, he had taken part  in the drafting of document 8C/PRG/13,
(78) He stressed the importance of the document,  which had been approved by his delegation,  Speaking as a member of that delegation, he had  a few comments to make on the way in which the  document should be used,
(79) The first point he wished to make was that the  Conference should not forget the need for bold  decisions after such dispassionate self-criticism.  The Executive Board, for its part, would have  greater responsibilities to shoulder in drawing up  future programmes, since the most important  part of the work, to be carried out with the   PROGRAMME AND  co-operation of the Secretariat, would devolve upon  it.
(80) In the Italian delegation's view, document
8C/PRG/13 was a starting point; it would there-  fore be unwise to draw from it any hasty conclusions,
(81) The division of activities into two categories  appeared to have its uses, provided that a careful  balance were maintained between the two parts of  the programme, that their intcrdependence was  clearly shown, and that they were not treated as  alternatives, It would also be necessary to define  exactly the activities falling into each category.
(82) The Italian delegation also approved the  report of the Advisory Committee on Programme  and Budget, Mr. Veronese, however, stressed  that the various stages in the implementation of  the proposed projects should not be rushed, He  agreed with the Indian delegate that the Conference  would have made a considerable advance if it  prepared a basis for future work and secured the  collaboration of Member States and National Com-  missions both at national and at regional level.
(83) In addition, the Italian delegation approved  the plan for the reorganization of the Secretaraat,  to which reference had been made, but felt that  here again it was advisable not to precipitate  matters and that the problem need not be taken up  immediately,
(84) Mr. FAUBLAS (Haiti) wished to draw the  attention of the Director-General and the Seci'e-  tariat to a project on which work had been  interrupted in January 1954: the Haiti pilot project.  He reminded the Commission that ethnologists and  sociologists had been sent out to Haiti and that  instructors had been trained to give the inhabitants  of the Marbial Valley the basic knowledge of which  they stood in need, and that some results had been  achieved.
(85) The delegate of Haiti regretted that the project  was no longer included in Unesco's budget; the  Government of Haiti had assumed responsibility  for it and was continuing to run the two training  centres and the 386 fundamental education centres,  but the funds it could devote to the work were very  small, The needs, on the other hand, were  considerable, as there were large numbers of  illiterates in the country, and, in order to save  time, the length of the training courses for  instructors had been reduced to three months,
(86) The Government of Haiti accordingly hoped  that consideration would be given to the possibility  of according it some aid, not in the form of money  but in that of cinema equipment, films, duplicating  machines, and paper for printing books in the  vernacular,
(87) The CHAIRMAN remarked that the request  of the delegate of Haiti had no bearing on the  current discussion, which was concerned with the  structure of the future programme, not the examina-  tion of the programme for 1955-56. He assured Mr.  Faublas, however, that his request would receive  the closest attention when the part of the programme  to which it referred came up for discussion.
(88) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) expressed his  - 295 -  RUDGE     COMMISSION IV-5  satisfaction with document 8C/PRG/13, a critical  review which should be most useful as a guide to  policy in the future programme.
(89) He noted that Unesco had :>ncentrated on the  preparation of the programme and budget, drawn  up in co-operation by the Executive Board and the  Secretariat, which had worked as it were centri-  fugally, moving out from the centre towards Member  States.
(90) In his opinion, however, the efforts of the  Executive Board and the Secretariat had been able  to make little impression on the Member States.  Of 72 States, a bare 50 had sent in reports for the  Conference. The first need, therefore, was to do  something to combat the lack of interest and the  laxity on the part of Member States. Unesco was  not an entity existing apart from those States; they  had themselves engaged in work in the fields of  education, science and culture before Unesco had  been set up. The Organization's task was to  promote collaboration at the international level;  in order to do so it needed the help of all its  Members; otherwise the programme would be a  dead letter, Some States had not yet set up  National Coramissions and that was a consideration  to be borne in mind when future programmes were  being drawn up.
(91) Mgr Maroun was convinced that, once Unesco  had succeeded in enlisting the efforts of all its  Members, funds would not be lacking. As a church-  man, he believed that the first thing to do was to  establish faith and then material resources would  be forthcoming.
(92) Mr. SALIM (Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan)  thought that the General Conference should be guided  by two principles in considering the future activities  of Unesco, namely, the principle of promoting  human dignity and the principle of procuring better  international understanding. To achieve those two  aims, a list of activities of greatest use to all  Member States and to the common good should be  compiled.
(93) In the field of education, all Member States  had apparently the desire to see an equal opportunity  for education given to the citizens of all countries,  It was equally important to provide the opportunity  of improving ine quality of education. That could  be one of the general services of Unesco, All  countries needed assistance in the fields of adult  and fundamental education - not necessarily  material assistance, but advice about techniques,  materials and general trends.
(94) Another general service should be the  popul:rization of science, Science would dictate  the fate of the world and every State must work te  channel knowledge in the desired direction.
(95) With regard to cultural activities, he would  like to see the spreading of information about  unknown or little known cultures, for only  through its culture could a country be  properly understood. Unesco could play a  part in eradicating all xinds of discrimination  which existed in every country in the world,  by entering into or encouraging inter-  national agreements on culture or in the  field of social science.   IN -5 PROGRAMME AND
(96) Some countries did not require technical  assistance, but, in his opinion, it should be en-  couraged and promoted in order to link the givers  and receivers and facilitate better understanding.
(97) He concluded by saying that he had briefly  quoted a few examples of what he considered should  be general services of Unesco. If the list were  added to, it would Le of the greatest assistance to  anybody connected with remodelling the programme,
(98) Mr. SIDDIQI (Pakistan) expressed appreciation  of the work done by the Executive Board and by the  Director-General in preparing the programme for
(99) He drew attention to the matter of technical  assistance. He understood that countries concerned  in technical assistance were helping to discharge a  basic function of Unesco, which was to advance the  principle of equality of educational opportunity.  Thax principle was of the utmost importance to  Unesco, because, if underdeveloped countries  were not helped in that respect, 1t would be 1m-  possibie for them to collaborate on an equal footing  with other countries. Without equality in the level  of education, it would be impossible to estaolish  real world understanding and solidarity,
(100) Efforts devoted to technical assistance were  often frustrated by the technical means used to  translate ideals into action, It was unfortunate  that countries with ancient cultures lagged behind  in scientific knowledge. If that were not fully  understood by the administrators of technical  assistance, frustration manifested itself in unrest  and impatience. Solidarity should te promoted in  the interests of peace and steps taken to further the  principle of educational equality.
(101) Mr. TREJOS DITTEL (Costa Rica) referred  to two points brought up by previous speakers  concerning the structure of the programme, The  first related to the rôle of National Commissions;  the second to the general activities described in  the Executive Board's Report in document 8C/PRG/
(102) Success or failure in co-operation betwecn  the National Commissions and Unesco deperded  upon the co-ordination of the work of those cem-  missions, Many of them were still by no means  fulfilling their real purpose. That situation was due  to failure to secure the necessary co-ordination  and, for that reason, it was preferable for Unesco  to consult them after having worked out its pro-  gramme instead of asking them to send in their  reports beforehand, as some delegates had  suggested.
(103) Paragraph 23 E, speaking of general activi-  ties, referred to "public information activities on  behalf of the objectives of Unesco, particularly in  its service of human rights, in the maintenance of  peace and the spirit of international co-operation",  Teaching should be included amongst those  BUI     - 296 -  JG FT COMMISSION  cbjectives, since the permanent, fundamental work  of Unesco was concerned with children of school age,  Aud it should be particularly stressed that such  work was called for on a wider basis in Spamsh-  speaking countries and in Cosia Rica itself,
(104) Useful experiments had been made in connexion  with education for iiving in a world community; but  they had not been ciusely enough associated; indeed,  in some States, nothing was known of what had been  achieved in others, The most praiseworthy of the  current projects was the one prepared by the  Department of Education, which merited all possible  support,
(105) The lack of co-ordination in that respect,  like the lack of co-ordination with regard to the  functions of National Commissions, resulted ina  waste of effort which should be avoided in the  interests c’ Unesco's noble aims.
(106) Mr. FORSYTH (New Zealand) said that his  Government had watched the growth of Unesco with  great interest and had always tried to persude the  General Conference to integrate and co-ordinate  projects that would show practical results, It had  always considered better international understanding  the paramount criterion for any of Unesco's activi-  ties, It welcomed, therefore, the sincere approach  of the Executive Board in its attempt to remodel  the programme,
(107) The proposed programme for general activi-  ties should be concise and any subventions granted  should go to organizations having a truly inter-  mtional character,
(198) The public information a tivities should be  given new emphasis in the remodelled pr ogramme  for 1957-58. Up tp the present, the efforts of the  National Commissions to enlighten p.blic opinion  had not been successful. Unesco had failed to reach  the intelligentsia or the masses and it was hardly  to be hoped that they could be -cached on a publicity  budget. However, he thought that a valuable group  could be reached, namely the middlemen. The  middlemen between Unesco and the masses were the  college and university professors, directors of  museums and theatres etc, and they were che people  who were in touch with both the intelligentsia and  th? masses, A campaign could be undertaken to  make known the work and ideals of Unesco, using  as campaigners the non-governmental organizations.
(109) Before closing the meeting, the CHAIRMAN  requested the Commission's approval of the pro-  gramme sf work he had outlined at the beginning of  the discusion on the remodelling of the future  programme.
(110) Approved,  The meeting rose a: 6,30 p, m.