PLENARY  permit, to work for the coming of those times so  longed for by men oi goodwill all the world over,  {115) I have been commissioned to bring you this  solemn assurance, strong in the conviction that  the policy pursued by our Organization in the things  of the mind and heart is the only possible one at the  present stage of civilization, and that it enables us  to hand on to our impatient followers the torch which  MEETINGS 1-5  was once passed to us by other hands, now fumbling  with age or from which life has departed...
(116) In conclusion, I am glad to state that my dele-  gation accepts the Report of the Director-General and  congratulates him on it most heartily,  The meeting rose at 6 p. m.  FIFTH PLENARY MEETING
15 November 1954 at 10.30 a.m.  President: Mr. ZAVALA MUNIZ (Uruguay)  CONTENTS  Communication by the President . . . PI + + 0 51 0 0 0 . 69  Discussion of the Director-General's Report (continued) :  Speeches by the delegates of Italy, Argentina, Japan, Chile,  Polan?, Norway, Thailand, Korea and the USSR ., . . . .. 69  COMMUNICATION BY THE PRESIDENT
(1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanisn):  The General Committee held a meeting this morning  and adopted the following decisions.
(2) As the Government of Venezuela has officially an-  nounced that it will not be represented at the present  session of the General Conference, and as that coun-  try held the chairmanship of the Headquarters Com-  mittee, the General Committee has invited the Nomi-  nations Committee to elect a new chairman,
(3) The General Committee has taken into account  the wide experience of Brazil in matters connected  with the Headquarters Committee, and would suggest  to the Nominations Committee that advantage be  taken of that delegation's special experience to ap-  point it to the chairmanship of the Headquarters Com-  mittee. In that case Brazil's seat as vice-president  of the Conference would become vacant. The  General Committee suggests to the Nominations Com-  mittee that another Latin American State might appro-  priately be placed on the list of vice-presidents. The  Nominations Committee will meet at 1.30 this after-  noon; the Headquarters Committee will meet after  thr: meeting of the Nominations Committee and will  later report to the Plenary Conference.
(4) The Secretariat informs me that 1t has received  from the Government of Cuba payment of the amount  of 1ts contribution required to entitle Cuba to vote at  the present session of the Conference. From this  moment, therefore, the delegation of Cuba enjoys full  voting rights.
(5) In accordance with the decision adopted by the  General Conference at the plenary meeting on Satur-  day morning, when reference was made to the partial  use of Russian as a working language at the present  session of the General Conference, the Secretariat  has made arrangements, starting today, for simul-  taneous interpretation from and into Russian in this  hall, Interpretation into Russian will be supplied by  the technical statf of the Soviet delegation until such  time as the Secretariat engages the rest of the staff    required in Montevideo. During the next few days  it is hoped to begin Russian interpretation in the other  rooms where the simultaneous system operates.
(6) The Chairman of the Administrative Commission  has announced that, beginning tomorrow (Tuesday)  morning, his Commission will examine item 9,31 of  the agenda: Draft Amendments to Article V of the  Constitution (Composition of the Executive Board).The  Commission will also consider the financing of the  budget and the report by the Contributions Committee,  starting on Wedrasday next.  DISCUSSION OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL'S REPORT  (continued)
(7) I now call upon the representative of Italy.
(8) Mr. BADINI CONFALONIERI (Italy) (Translation  from the French): ladies and gentlemen, it is diffi-  cult for me, as Head of the Italian delegation, when  rising to speak in Montevideo, and in this Palace, to  suppress the emotion I feel at the welcome which has  been given us by the Uruguayan people. There are  indissoluble links of blood and culture uniting my own  country with this nation, where one of the most famous  heroes of Italian unity won his spurs in the struggle  for freedom. Relatively small in numbers, but great  in spirit and in its love of democracy, the Uruguayan  nation seems to embody the 1deals of Unesco in its  own civilization, of which it.is rightly proud and  which it has built up in the greatest freedom and with  the generous help of other nations. May I be allowed,  Mr. President, though 1 may seem to you to be de-  parting from the agenda and perhaps causing some  embarrassment to you personally, to express here  once again the gratitude of the Italian delegation,
(9) Unescohas been passing through a crisis, Two years  ago this crisis reached a dramatic stage which is still  gravenonthe hearts and minds of most of you - a stage  when serious fears were entertained for its future.
(10) It may be that Unesco has weathered the storm,  as some authorities have claimed. But, though weare  - 69 -
1-5 PLENARY  now sailing the high seas, there are many unknown  dangers ahead and we can barely glimpse the course  we are to set.
(11) Out of this crisis, after six months of uncertain-  ty, there has come a new Director-General who has  been at pains to establish contacts with the Member  States. As Mr. Evans was himself happy to acknow-  ledge at this very rostfum the day before yesterday,  the Member States have been extremely frank with  him - and we intend to continue to be so: for instance,  the President of the Italian National Commission gave  him a much fuller account of the Italian attitude to  Unesco than would be possible during these debates.
(12) As regards the planned activities for 1955-56,  we could - and indeed we should - be more critical if  we confined ourselves to examining them intrinsical-  ly; we should find among them many activities and  methods which have already been the source of futile  disputes, in particular those two budgetary levels,  the higher and the lower, which in Paris gave rise to  such acrimonious argument. But we prefer to re-  gard them as transitional activities leading up to the  remodelled programme we all wish to see. It is in  this future programme, this plan for remodelling as  laid before us by the Executive Board, that our inter-  est and our hopes are centred - not unmixed, it must  be said, with some degree of optimism.
(13) But let us be undei no illusion: although the  proposed remodelling puts forward structural and  substantive reforms which are more far-reaching  than might at first sight appear, its main purpose is  to form, for the time being only, an effective frame-  work, and a useful and more flexible instrument, lt is  we, the Member States, who must fill in the canvas  within that framework and, if Unesco 1s to succeed, it  will be our duty during «he coming two years, while  the ordinary programme is being carried out, to  determine the special activities in which we are  interested and to review the activities of a permanent  nature.
(14) To this end, by concentrating our efforts upon  obtaining increased efficiency and a programme more  directly corresponding to the needs of Member States,  we propose at this Conference to urge that the role of  the National Commissions be strengthened and better  defined by more closely associating them with the  framing of the programme. It is not that we wish to  reduce the function of the Secretariat to that of a pas-  sive catalyst. We have too high a regard for its ex-  perience and its sense of mission not to accord it a  leading part in choosing the objectives, and indeed in  stimulating national activities. It has, moreover,  proved its worth under difficult circumstances which  are not yet such ancient history that we could forget  them. The National Commissions, though, are -he  roots that feed Unesco with its life-blood, which they  draw from the living tissue of the nations; it is they  who can prevent the Organization from working in a  dry and sterile vacuum by linking it with concrete  achievements. As amember of the Government myself,  and as a liberal politician, I would like to ack-  nowledge the valuable work accomplished by the  National Commissions and pay tribute - independently of  the State's efforts - to the free expression of culture,
(15) We consider also that by calling periodic meet-  ings of several National Commissions, without form-  ing permanent groupings, we should arrive at a  - 70 ~     MEETINGS  system of variable and elastic regionalism based or  problems of common interest and not at all on politi-  cal considerations, which should not cloud the field of  culture, Reg...nalism of this kind, in our view, would  be by far the healthiest solution and would help to pre-  vent that decentralization which would gravely jeopar-  dize the unity and universality of the Unesco spirit.
(16) There is another extremely important problem  which demands special attention. What proportion  should be kept between the more strictly scientific and  cultural activities and those which concern education  alone? The former are directed towards more high-  ly advanced States, while the latter more often than  not take the form of technical assistance to countries  which, for historical and geographical reasons, are  only now beginning to gain access to technical progress.
(17) Let it be clearly understood that we recognize  the principal purpose of the Organization to be that of  emphasizing all those activities which seek to raise  the living standards of peoples not yet fully developed,  and above all, of helping East and West to obtain wider  knowledge of each other's civilizations. This is one  way of serving the cause of peace, and thus of pursu-  ing the fundamental aims of the Organization.
(18) But we also firmly believe that any educational  activity, even the most elementary, would speedily be  doomed to sterility, to stagnation in stereotyped and  outworn teachings and even to complete failure, if the  Organization lost contact with culture and science at  the highest level.
(19) Far be it from us to wish to turn Unesco into a  super-academy or international mimstry of the Minis-  tries of Education; we even see in that a very real  danger. Believing as we do that art, science andcul-  ture are the free flowering of the spirit and that they  cannot bring forth good fruit at the behest either of  the State or of some super -State institution, there is  nothing we fear so much as the creation of a special  and exclusive Unesco doctrine which we should feel  bound to disseminate or to impose.
(20) Among scientific and cultural activities there is,  however, a vast field in which the Organization can  exert itself by successfully concentrating its efforts,  even saving money for the national budgets, and  achieving more effective results through the recipro-  cal enrichment of national cultures. I should like to  make it clear that in the Italian delegation's view  such activities might well be included not only among  those of a permanent nature, but also among the "'spe-  cial activities".
(21) There is one more point in the Director-General's  report which the Italian delegation has found of spe-  cialinterest. 1 refer to the efforis directed at es-  tablishing and protecting human rights in general, and  particularly the right” to education and culture. I  should like to congratulate the Director-General on  the course of action he has followed and to assert that  the solution of the many outstanding difficulties does  not merely depend on his goodwill. I am also anxious  to assure him that in this question, which we hold to  be one of the fundamental tasks of Unesco, the Italian  delegation will give him every support. We are par-  ticularly interested in those rights which guarantee  the free flow of culture, the verbal and written expres-  sion of thought, and the free movement of the menand  women who are the bearers of that thought and cul-  ture. What we desire, however, are rights whichare   PLENARY  not merely inscribed in the tables of the law (a rela-  tively easy matter, but one which may prove  disappointing), but rights which are translated into  practical reality.
(22) I said just now that in the next two years we shall  be engaged on a work of revision and selection inorder  to fill in the framework provided for us by the pro-  posed programme in its revised form. On that sel-  ection depends in great measure the fate of Unesco.  Too much stress cannot be laid upon its importance  or 1 pon the responsibility of those who will be called  upon to make that selection or on the sense of pro-  portion and realism they will have to display in  carrying out a task which will entail the sometimes  bitter renunciation of national prerogatives, consen-  ted to in favour oi = higher interest and in a truly  universal spirit,
(23) We still hear the echu of the splendid words spo-  ken here in this connexion by u:” retiring President,  Dr, Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan. The favourable at-  mosphere in which this Conference has begun its la-  bours is a proof that his words were needed. In that  spirit I should like to feel that we could undertake, as  I do here and nov on behalf of my own country, to  work hard and unceasingly during the next two years  so that the gap between our hopes of today and the re-  alities of tomorrow may gradually be reduced.
(24) By the time the next General Conference meets  Unesco will have reached its tenth anniversary. What  finer, nobler celebration could be wished for than the  continuing intellectual co-operation of men of goodwill?
(25) We were deeply moved three days ago by what  we witnessed on the steps outside this Parliament  House at the inauguration of Unesco's eighth General  Conference. After the proud and moving strains of  your National Anthem, Mr. President, had risen to-  wards the blue sky above, the flags of all the nations  were raised around those of Uruguay and the United  Nations, and then it was that we heard the Canticle  of Hope, creating the perfect atmosphere for the  opening of our work. Traditional values and new  forms, national elements and the universality of the  spirit blended harmoniously in the lofty symbolism of  this act, in which we took part with joy and gratitude;  ”nd it all found expression in the pure voices of the  young people of that rising generation for whom it is  so well worth while, ladies and gentlemen, to labour  and to struggle.
(26) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call upon the representative of the Argentine Repub-  lic.
(27) Mr. COLOMBO (Argentina) (Translation from  the Spanish): Mr. President, lacics and gentlemen,  the Argentine Republic has studied the report of the  Executive Board and of the Director-General with  keen attention, and feels it an ..onour to endorse the  conclusions reached therein, While it is true that  these suggest many ideas and a number of questions,  they may be regarded as a direct result of the work  which has been achieved or which still remains to be  done, and also of the deep feeling of international co-  operation which inspired the decisions of the members  of this United Nations organization. Perhaps it may  be asserted that everything is still in its early stages  and that little has yet been done for the good of the    MEETINGS 1-5  peoples and the human race. This apparent pa: adox  is perhaps the clue to the force which animates and  impels us in the great work which has been started in  the fields of science, culture and education, The pri-  mary objectives of science, culture and educationare  to kindle in the minds of men the light of peace and  progress, to contribute to the brotherhood of man and  to establish enduring links between the nations, free  of prejudices and intrigues, so that there may be im-  perishable confirmation, not merely American but  world-wide in its application, of the words of one of  my country's statesmen: "Eve rything unites us and  naught shall divide us".
(28) The report before us, which by its very impor-  tance deserves to be discussed and assessed by this  august Assembly, contains in its introduction the cru-  cial point around which 1s to revolve the future activi-  *y of the Organization which has drawn it up; for un-  doubtedly it is the projects already completed which  will, by the eloquence of facts, drown the abuse and  frustrate the manoeuvres of those who see in obscur-  antism a suitable way of distorting good intentions and  sowing hatred and discord. Among those projects,  may ! be allowed, whether from a professional impul-  se or following the intimate promptings of my con-  science, to draw your aitention to those connected  with the teaching of the social sciences and jurispru-  dence, Those in the former group, with their mani-  fold branches and nuances, seek to guarantee the  general well-being of the community, while those in the  latter, in their dual aspects - the normative and the  functional - are seeking the most suitable means  whereby the community can guide its development  within that order which is indispensable to its very  survival.
(29) It is pointless, ladies and gentlemen, to go on  piling up plans unless they are translated into reali-  ties. If it is true that Creams are a form of ideals  and that ideals ennoble mankind and strengthen the  greatness of nations, it is no less true that they should  serve as a powerful lever to satisfy the immediate de-  sires of the dreamers. Only if they do is it possible  to eliminate confusion and destroy the spurious plans  underlying certain types of claims that run counter to  the equilibrium essential to the peaceful coexistence of  the nations. Only thus, through powerful and conti-  nuous action, penetrating deeply into minds and feel-  ings, convincing by its own force of attraction and by  its irresistible example, shall we succeed in abolish-  ing futile struggles and bringing about that state of  happiness which mankind has been seeking in vain  throughout the centuries.
(30) At the Tenth Inter-American Conference, held in  Caracas a few months ago, the Foreign Minister of my  country uttered words which, because of their special  significance, may fittingly be repeated here, since  they show very clearly the attitude of the Argentine  Republic to so important a matter: "Since poverty  must disappear", he said, "and capitalism must be-  come humanized and place itself in the service of so-  ciety, our peoples aspire to reach degrees of culture,  humanistic in dimensions, in the three aspects which  may be classified as the formation and development of  the intelligence, the ethical sense and the aesthetic  impulse. The community, without distinction of  class, religion or sex, has the right of access to the  sources of a common culture, and it is the duty of  - 71 -
11-5 PLENARY  governments to guarantee this, if they are seeking to  form a genuine national feeling. A nation, when it is  genuinely a nation, is not expressed in terms of kilo-  metres of territory, in its national product, or in the  strength of its armies, but in the consciousness which  nations have of themselves when they go forth in  search of their destiny".
(31) It is that culture which, pulsing through the  heads and hearts of our brothers throughout the world,  will lead them to understand what a great power 1s  theirs and what magnificent weapons they possess to  help them perfect their thinking, teach them honec'y  of conduct and bring their noblest hopes to fruition. It  ts that culture which, through pro.er educational sys-  tems - the fruits of a slowly de.cloping knowledge -  will enable the mind to look beyond the shadows and  to ghmpse whatsoever things are noble and pure, far  beyond the primaeval instincts of the race.
(32) Thus 1t is that among the basic precepts justify-  ing the creation of Unesco, which are summed up in  its Constitution, we find one which recognizes as the  determining cause of the most appalling war of all  times, the negation of democratic principles, of the  dignity and equality of man and of respect for his per-  sonality, as well as the deliberate desire to exploit  prejudice and ignorance. For such an attitude there
1s but one remedy, namely the joint efforts of all to  understand the malign influence of unbridled mater-
1alism, and but one solution, namely the clear expres-  sion of the brotherhood of man, so that 1t may no long-  er be true to say with the philosopher that man is his  own worst enemy.
(33) But 1t 1s not enough tha: there should be interna-  tional activity, unless it is accompanied by activity in  each and all of our States. Major undertakings should  be initiated at national level so that help to the needy,  progressive improvements in the life of the working  classes, the adaptation of laws to aspects of modern  life, and the raising of the general econumic and cul-  tural level prepare the ground for transition from the  local to that wider field which presupposes the co-  operation on equal terms of several, many or all the  nations. And where the internal impulsions are  weak or the essential conditions for achieving desira-  ble aims are lacking, help will be given, as it must be  given, if a good harvest is desired; and so, behind  the outstretched hand, eager to give, we find the  loving heart.
(34) The considerable task which this Organization -  whose assizes we are now again attending - has ac-  complished so far,is a real augury of what it can do in  the future. The secret of its success lies in the fact  that it is a spiritual community, There must be no  relaxation of effort, no faltering in the enterprise, if  its future development 1s to be assured. Young  though 1t still 1s in years, it has already made an in-  delible mark on history; it is like a banner flying  over the scene of battle, like a symbol of continuous  rebirth, of a yearning to improve all those things  which can be improved for the benefit of ourselves  and of generations to come.
(35) The President of my country, in opening the  first National Philosophical Congress in the city of  Mendoza, said: "From an educational point of view,  if we consider the possibility of providing the peoples  with good living conditions, the problem ceases to be  abstract and becomes an urgent reality. The man who    MEETINGS  is to be invested with dignity and started on the road to  well-being, must first and foremost be trained and  made aware of himself". These are 1deas which ad-  mirably complement the words spoken by the Vice-  President of India, Dr. Radhakrishnan, at the seventh  General Conference, when he said, among other things:  "The cure 1s to restore the truths of the spirit to the  central place in the minds of men. The truths of the  spirit are liberality, understanding, freedom. Letus  therefore send out from this Conference a message to  this groping, uncertain, discontented world: that love  and not hatred, that freedom and not fear, that faith  and not doubt, have in themselves the healing of the  nations",
(36) In praying as representative of the Argentine Re-  public for the success of this great World Assembly,l  express the hope that these lofty ideals, unsmirched  by any petty interests, may govern our deliberations  and guide them firmly along their proper path.
(37) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call upon the representative of Japan.
(38) Mr. SAWADA (Japan): Mr, President, ladies  and gentlemen, it 1s with genuine pleasure that the  Japanese delegation has come to participate in this  memorable Conference. We are glad that it is being  held on the friendly soil of Uruguay and on behalf of  the Japanese delegation, let me express our apprecia-  tion of the courtesy and goodwill of the Government of  Uruguay in inviting Unesco to hold it in this hospitable  city of Montevideo.
(39) May I also take this occasion to express oursin-  cere thanks to the Executive Board and to the Secre-  tariat for the strenuous efforts they have made in the  last two years in carrying out our programmes and in  drawing up new ones together with the compiling of the  draft budget. For these accomplishments, the Exe-  cutive Board and the Secretariat deserve the profound  gratitude of all Member States.
(40) The Japanese delegation has carefully reviewed  the new draft programme. It is a matter of great  significance that Unesco, now approaching its tenth  year, is trying at this juncture to give a new direction  to its programme. It appears that, in prosecutingics  activities, Unesco will take into consideration, more  than in the past, the particular circumstances of dif-  ferent regions of the world, as well as the aspirations  of its Member States. Of all the activities of Unesco,  I understand that special importance is attached to  education for international understanding and co-  operation, and also to the further promotion of techni-  cal assistance, The Japanese delegation desires to  see Unesco put more emphasis on these questions.
(41) Last Saturday, we listened to very illuminating  reports from the Chairman of the Executive Board and  the Director-General. Reference was made in their  reports to their two trips undertaken in the course of  the last year. You will remember that one of these  was a visit to the Member States in Asia. The party  included Mr. Oscar Secco Ellauri, Uruguayanmem-  ber of the Executive Board. They had free and frank  talks with competent authorities inside and outside the  governments of the countries they visited. In the  course of their tour, they were good enough to visit  my country, where we were most happy to welcome  them. Our National Commission and people interested  - 72 -   PLENARY  in Unesco's work did what little they could do to make  their stay with us interesting and fruitful. Their sir-  cerity of purpose, their enthusiastic belief in the  ideals of this world-wide movement, left a deep  impression on us. In this manner they gave great  encouragement to us in the development of Unesco  activities inour country. We understand that, as the  result cf their visit to Asia, the Executive Board and the  Secretariat have come to recognize more need of ex-  panding the Organization's work in that part of the  world. It is earnestly hoped that the present Confer-  ence will share their point of view. In this connexion  I may say that Unesco attaches great importance to  the promotion of fundamental education in Asia and  elsewhere, In this matter, Japan, with her long and  rich experience in the advancement of education, is  ready to give full co-operation to the Organization to  the best of her ability whenever required.
(42) We also take a keen interest in the progress of  science, contributing as it does to the raising of the  standard of living and the promotion of the welfare of  millions. In this belief, the Japanese delegation pro-  posed at the seventh General Conference the study of  oceanography in the Indian and Pacific region, and  the proposal was adopted by that Conference. It is a  matter of great satisfaction to us that a project for  giving a more definite shape to this work during the  coming two years 1s included in the programme for
(43) Latin American countries, we are aware, are  deeply concerned with this matter, and we have learn  ed recently that the International Union of Geodesy  and Geophysics 1s also desirous of establishing an in-  ternational organization for oceanographic study. Ac-  cordingly, the Japanese delegation has presented a  proposal to the present Conference for the establish-  ment of an Advisory Committee on Oceanographic Re-  search, covering Indo-Pacific and Latin Americanre-  gions. It is hoped that the Conference will adopt at  with the ultimate aim of setting up a permanent and  independent body responsible for the development of  oceanographic research. This is our Proposal No.l.
(44) The Japanese delegation 1s also deeply preoccu-  pied by the question of atomic energy. Tousitis a  matter of the first importance to study from all pos-  sible angles the technological, economic and social  effects of the use of atomic energy. We know, how-  ever, that the necessary materials are still lacking  for the effective prosecution of these complex studies.  It may therefore be difficult to lay down at present a  definite programme for this purpose. We understand  that the United Nations is now considering this and si-  milar questions, but we hope that Unesco will seize  every opportunity that may arise for such studies.
(45) In the meanwhile, we cannot ignore the inimical  effects of radio-activity, even when atomic energy 1s  used for peaceful purposes. We Japanese have wit-  nessed with our own eyes the injuries and harm it has  caused. For this reason, the Japanese delegation  has submitted a proposal to the present Conference  that Unesco shall initiate medical and biological stu-  dies of the physical injuries and damage caused by  radio-activity. In the interests of human welfare a  definite programme should be formulated as soon as  possible to find ways and means to avoid such injuries  and to provide suitable remedies for them. In spite,  however, of the urgency of the problem ,the studies we  - 173 -     MEETINGS II-6  recommend would demand the close co-operation of the  competent scientists and, with this end in view, the  Japanese delegation wishes Unesco to encourage and  facilitate joint study of this important problem by  world experts. This is our Proposal No. 2.
(46) As regards Unesco's activities in Japan, a full  seport has already been presented to Unesco head-  quarters. As pointed out in that report, these activi-  ties are steadily growing, but I must confess at the  same time that, in spite of our efforts, we have not  yet been able to rally round us as much public energy  and goodwill as we would like. Owing perhaps to the  recent trend of the international situation, over which  we have no control, we find it difficult to make the  masses understand the aims and activities of Unesco  as well as they should do.
(47) I may be wrong, but we are afraid that the case  may be the same in other countries. In these cir-  cumstances, we feel it most desirable that Member  States andUnesco headquarters should put forth fur-  ther endeavours to make Unesco more popular among  the masses of the peorle. According to our short  experience, the establishment in Member States of  Friends of Unesco Clubs or similar institutions is of  great help in accomplishing this purpose. Consequent-  ly, the Japanese delegation has made a proposal to  the present Conference to the effect that Member  States shall, acting through their National Commis-  sions, encourage the establishment of Unesco Friends  Clubs or similar institutions to publicize and popular-
1ze the work of Unesco, United Nations and the  Specialized Agencies. This is our Proposal No. 3.
(48) The armed conflicts which had broken out in one  part of the world or another in the past few years have  fortunately ceased and Unesco should seize the oppor-  tunity to redouble its efforts to contribute to the main  tenance of world peace and security. The future of  Unesco rests upon a decision to reorientate its activi-  ties, and I hope that that decision will be taken at this  session of the General Conference. It 1s stronglyde-  sired that Unesco remodel its activities and concen-  trate upon major projects of first importance.
(49) At this session, the Organization has been joined  by new members. It is hoped that, as a result, genu-  ine co-operation will be established at this Conference  on new foundations in order that Unesco may contri-  bute more and more to international peace and security  by promoting universal respect for justice, for the  rule of the law and for numan rights and fundamental  freedoms.
(50) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call upon the representative of Chile.
(51) Mr. VASALLO (Chile) (Translation from the  Spanish): Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, it is  only recently that the present Government of Chile de-  cided to join this Organization, which aims at foster-  ing increased solidarity between the peoples. It gives  us great satisfaction to declare that the objectives pur-  sued by Unesco and the 1deals and values from which  it draws its inspiration are by no means foreign tothe  basic principles underlying the civic and cultural his-  tory of our Republic. But, before voicing a few re-  flections on this subject, may I express to the Govern  ment and people of Uruguay our gratitude for the mag-  nificent welcome accorded to Unesco on the occasion   H-5 PLENARY  of this eighth General Conference. Such an attitude  is one more example of the nobility and vigour of the  cultural and democratic life of this country.
(52) We are gathered together here because we feel  Unesco to be a great international experiment for en-  hancing the highest values of the human spirit. We  would not underrate any of its fine achievements. We  have commended them unreservedly; I am thinking, in  particular, of the Regional Centre of Fundamental  Education for Latin America at Patzcuaro, in Mexico,  Similarly, we believe that the contribution of a Mem-  ber State should also take the form of a keenly vigilant  attitude to ensure that the projects of this Organiza-  tion are inspired by no consideration other than that  of strengthening the understanding and friendship  which bind the peoples together at this stormy period  in the history of mankind.
(53) Chile desires to be a democracy in the fullest  sense of the term. That is the course it has followed  through more than a century of independent existence,  In the formation of that democracy our aboriginal  groups and men from all parts of the globe have played  their part. Our country, which borders so largelyon  the ocean, has developed a special psychological at-  titude of always remaining open to the world and to  the free circulation of ideas. That is why our na-  tional thought is characterized by a lively awareness  of international affairs. Traditionally, at all times  in its history, Chile has been the refuge of thinkers  and men of action who have come to her shores to  seek peace and serenity for their minds. Andrés Bello,  that great American figure, was for over 20 years  rector of our centenary University without on that ac-  count ceasing to be a Venezuelan. The Argentinian  Domingo Faustino Sarmiento and his compatriot  Alberdi made a joint contribution to Chile's nascent  civilization. We are linked with Spain by bonds of  race and language. France has nourished us with  her great literary and artistic achievements. It was  Germans who founded the Department of Educationat-  tached to the University of Chile, the oldest of its  kind in this part of the continent and the one where  most of the staffs of secondary schools and teachers  training colleges in Latin America have beentrained.  In other fields of national activity we are indebted to  immigrants from Italy, Yugoslavia and other parts of  the world.
(54) Chile's contribution to the cultural and educa-  tional accomplishments of the Latin American peoples  repays in some measure the great debt we owe to the  rest of the world. Chilean teachers have had a de-  cisive influence on the educational reforms carried  out in various countries of Central and South America  The faculties, schcols and institutes of the University  of Chile open their doors to thousands of students who  enjoy privileges equal or superior to those enjoyed by  Chilean students. If I refer to these activities, it is  not in order to evoke feelings of chauvinism but to  draw the attention of this Conference to the special  significance that is being assumed on a world-wide  scale by the cultural contribution and outlook of this  America of ours, which nowadays it would be an in-  tolerable injustice to call the "continent of savages".
(55) Our six universities, three of which have their  full complement of faculties, enjoy a wide degree of  self-government, on both the teaching and the admin-  istrative sides, the University of Chile retaining only    MEETINGS  the right to control the conferring of certain academic  titles particularly connected with public health and  education. As long ago as 1833 our Constitution laid  down the maxim that "education must be the special  care of the State", and this is reflected in the constant  efforts which have led to the development of teacher  training colleges andthe various branches and grades  of general and technical education.
(56) Notwithstanding this general trend and the fact  that primary instruction has been compulsory for  more than 25 years, Chile has not succeeded in abol-  ishing the illiteracy which is its regrettable blemish.  We must therefore take advantage of the experiences  of Unesco in fundamental education, a field in which  we have none the less made some progress, as a result  of our teachers' having long since become familiar  with the dynamic, comprehensive conception of an  education suited to the exigencies of community life  and its many demands for increased technical progress.
(57) In other ways Chile has also fostered and prac-  tised the essential principles of Unesco on the free  change of ideas and knowledge with a view to achiev-  ing greater moral and intellectual solidarity between  the peoples. Since 1930 we have had a Chilean Com-  mission for Intellectual Co-operation, which was for  years a branch of the relevant organization of the for-  mer League of Nations. Throughout the country there  are about 40 affiliated institutes functioning on a bi-  national basis, and students and eminent research  workers benefit by a system of fellowships which are  granted under the best conditions consistent with our  limited financial resources. The Commission in  question has organized exhibitions of Chilean books  abroad; it sponsored an American Conference on In-  tellectual Co-operation held in Chile in 1939, and has  acted as the co-ordinating body for various cultural  activities both at home and abroad. An importantele-  ment in the expansion of education and culture has  been provided by the University of Chile with its va-  cation courses and the growing popularity of the na-  tional symphony orchestra, the University ballet and  choir, and the experimental theatre - all of them  organizations created by the State.
(58) I should like to describe for you the broad lines  of our policy at this General Conference and the course  of our future action. We have studied the ‘Proposed  Programme and Budget for 1955-56 and have been  able to study the Director-General's Report on the  work accomplished in the period now drawing to a  close, In its broad lines this report seems to us a  fitting exposé of work efficiently performed and hold-  ing out obvious prospects for the future, We areun-  able, however, to give an exact statement of our  views, although we think that the task discharged by  the Director-General and the Executive Board is  praiseworthy and deserves to be .ndorsed by this Con  ference, We approve the idea that priority should be  given to the tasks of fundamental education and to  every form of technical assistance which will contri-  bute to raising the capacity of the underdeveloped  countries. We also think that the subsidies to cer-  tain international organizations should be closely  scrutinized to ensure that these bodies are in fact en-  gaged in activities consonant with the spirit of our  Constitution. Let us hope that from now on, the Mem  ber States, in view of the special and generous a‘ms  of Unesco, will authorize budgets which will enable  - 14 -   FLENARY  its sphere of action to be widened and made more uni-  versal in all the three fields of education, science and  culture. We would like, too, to see Unesco elimina-  ting as far as possible every internal tendency to  bureaucracy, which might upset its natural rate of  growth. May its efforts conduce to the appointment  of more experts, the granting of scholarships, gifts  of books, and the organization of exhibitions and en-  quiries, and, in general, to the direction of an effect-  ive technical assistance. Perhaps a close study of  the administrative machinery would help to give ef-  fect to these aspirations, which are not formulated  with any idea of causing trouble or voicing baseless  criticism. It may be, of course, that this is a mis-  taken impression; anyhow it is better to say things at  the right time and in the right place.
(59) During the Conference we shall have our obser -  vations to make about possible corrections to the pro-  gramme and budget for the two years 1955-56. On  some points we have already put forward definite  amendments, For the time being we wish to express  our support for the draft resolution submitted by the  delegation of Honduras to secure your approval for  setting up in Latin America an Institute for Vocation-  al and Professional ‘Training and a Higher Teacher  Training College, an identical motion on which was  put forward by Chile. We are confident that withthe  goodwill of this Assembly we shall be able to reaiize  a scheme of incalculable impnrtance for the future of  secondary education and teacher training in this part  of the continent.
(60) It is our hope that Unesco may day by day make  more and more progress in the greatest possible num  ber of concrete and practical projects. May the  atmosphere of its researches, deliberations and agree -  ments refiect a lofty spirit of universality! May a  broad democratic sentiment govern its organization  and operation! Chile's sole desire is to contribute  to the spread of sincerity, trust and friendship be-  tween peoples and governments, as the cornerstones  of all healthy and creative international coexistence;  and we pray that the symbolic banner of Unesco may  give fresh impetus to the expansion of culture, the  basic condition for which is a climate of unrestricted  freedom. Without that climate culture is doomed to  extinction or death, and must surrender to the blind  reign of instinctive forces, ever hostile to the uplift-  ing of human dignity,
(61) Lastly, we should like to express our hope that  at the next Conference we shall be able to proclaim  that we have received from Unesco the attention de-  manded by the urgent educational and cultural needs  of our Latin American continent.
(62) (he PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanishk
1 call upon the representative of Poland.
(63) Mr. MICHALOWSK (Poland): Mr. President,  fellow delegates, please allow me at the beginning of  my speech to express on behalf of the Polish Govern-  ment its thanks to the Government of Uruguay and to  the town of Montevideo for the hospitality extended to  us and to convey my country's best greetings to the Uru-  guayan people ,to whom we wish the best of success,  prosperity and progress.
(64) The present session has started in a somewhat  different atmosphere from that in which previous     MEETINGS u-s  sessions were held. We observe symptoms of dimi-  nished tension in the international situation; the threat  of a new war has receded, a war which would bring  about the sure destruction. of our whole civilization.At  present, for the first time in many years, no major  armed conflict is being waged anywhere in the world.  The armistice in Korea and in Indo-China, the Confer-  ences of the great powers in Berlin and in Geneva and  the unanimous decision of the United Nations on dis-  armament - these are essential elements in the new  situation. A number of other problems and interna-  tional disagreements have recently found their solu-  tion and the view that no controversial issue exists  that cannot be solved through negotiations is gaining  ever-increasing understanding and support. This new  situation imposes upon all States and upon all interna-  tional organizations the greater duty to make the max-  mum effort to speed up the process of easing interna-  tional tension, All the peoples of the world are long-  ing for it. This duty also lies at the basis of the  existence and purpose of our Organization.
(65) Unesco came into being immediately after the  victory over fascism and Hitlerism. When the Con-  stitution of Unesco was being laid down, when the first  plans for its activity were being worked out, nobody  expected that the forces of evil would revive and  would so quickly find a voice. In 1945 ''re-education’  was the pount of issue, now, alas, it is "rearmament’,
(66) The Constitution of Unesco says that wars begin  in the minds of men. But the idea of war does not  come of itself. The presumption that armed conflicts  are necessary and inevitable is artificially created by  a large-scale and lavishly equipped war propaganda.  That is why under these conditions Unesco should de-  velop intensified peace activity; it should the more  become the ground for intensive and friendly  co-operation.
(67) Unfortunately, we observe with anxiety in Unesco,  as well as in theUnited Nations and in some other or-  ganizations, signs that therc still exists a dangerous  tendency to disturb international coexistence. Only a  few days ago, here in this hali, we witnessed such  symptoms. Ihave in mind, first of all, the refusal  to admit to Unesco the rightful representatives of the
600 millions of the Chinese people, a people with an  ancient and splendid culture which is now recording  new achievements and creating new values of worth to  the whole world.
(68) The principle of the universality of Unesco,which  lies at its basis, was flouted by the postponement of  the admission of Bulgaria and Rumania - two countries  which are developing their culture in the true spiritof  democracy, in the spirit of peace, international  co-operation and understanding. Both these factsare  alien tothe spirit and the letter of the Constitution of  Unesco and are evidence of political manoeuvres which  should find no place here and which are harmful toour  Organization. The Polish delegation hopes that these  mistakes will shortly be corrected.
(69) Resuming its co-operation with Unesco, Poland  brings with it significant achievements in the field of  culture and education, the fruit of tremendous efforts  by the entire nation in the course of the ten post-war  years.
(70) Following the war and Nazi occupation which  had inflicted painful losses amounting to 20 per cent  of the population and 40 per cent of its scientific  - T5 -
11-5 PLENARY MEETINGS  manpower and cultural assets, Poland has within a  few years abolished illiteracy as a mass phenomenon  in our country.
(71) We had in Poland before the war 2,350 seven-  class elementary schools; now 11,000 schools cover  nearly 100 per cent of our children. Before the war,  we had 28 universities for a population of 35 millions -  now we have 82 universities for the 26 millions of pre-  sent-day Poland. The number of students per 10,000  of the population was 14 before the war - now it is 47,  more than three times the pre-war figure.
(72) Our country is now covered by a network of  schools, community halls and cultural clubs, museums,  theatres, cinemas and professional and amateur art  groups. We publish over 100 million copies cf books  yearly including 25 million textbooks.
(73) Before the war Poland had 15 scientific institutes  with approximately 2,000 scientific workers - now  there are 92 scientific institutes of different kinds  employing 12,000 scientific workers.
(74) Our country aims at the development of a culture  that shall be truly national in its essence and, at the  same time, it teaches the people to respect and toun-  derstand the cultural values of other nations and pro-  motes international co-operation in the field of  culture,
(75) While developing 1ts education, science and art,  our country encourages large-scale cultural exchange  with other countries. In the current year only, more  than 40 cultural, social and political delegations have  visited our country. Artists from Berlin and Peiping  and theatrical companies from Paris and Moscow gave  performances in Poland. Scientists and artists from  Great Britain, France, Italy, India, the USSR, the  people's democracies and many other countries have  lectured or performed in our country.
(76) Polish scientists and artists frequently visit  other countries. The Polish theatre played last year  in Paris and in Moscow, and Polish dancers and sing-  ers have given performances in a number of towns  from Shanghai to Paris.
(77) We constantly take part in international gather-  ings of exponents of music, fine arts and the cinema.  We have participated in numerous festivals - Venice,  Carlsbad, Cannes, Rio and Mar del Plata. We have  attended PEN Club and ICOM conferences and many  others,
(78) At home we organize numerous international  competitions in the arts, for example, the Chopin and  Wieniawski International Competition, and a number  of exhibitions of the science, art and culture of other  countries.
(79) We have come to this session of Unesco after a  few years of absence with a positive balance of cul-  tural achievement and a positive balance in our con-  tribution to cultural international exchange.
(80) It is our intention to support in Unesco all valua-  ble and concrete undertakings which tend, in practice,  to increase international understanding. In particu-  lar we shall support every endeavour to raise the le-  vel of fundamental education and to spread culture in  Member States.
(81) We have signed the Convention for the protec-  tion of cultural property in the event of armed  conflict. We shall further the exchange of theatrical  and ballet companies and of exhibitions between  museums.
(82) We shall back the proposals of the delegation of  India to strengthen and develop the peaceful coexistence  of different political systems and of co-operation among  all nations. We shall also support the proposals of  India on the utilization of atomic energy for peaceful  purposes only, in the interest of mankind, and not as  a threat to annihilate our culture and our existence .We  shall also give our support to a campaign for teaching  equality of and respect for all races and all nations.
(83) Similarly, we shall support here, as we do at UN,  proposals for technical assistance to economically un-  derdeveloped countries, animated by respect for the  national culture and sovereign rights of those countries,  by the spirit of peace and sincere peaceful internation-  al co-operation on the basis of equality and mutual  benefits.
(84) We shall support increased exchange of scientific  publications and the promotion of activities which will  contribute to the better dissemination of scientific  achievements among the broad masses of the peoples.
(85) We shall also support the idea of commemorating  great thinkers whose works have essentially contribu-  ted to the cultural progress of humanity, an idea which  has already been given practical shape by Unesco in  the case of Goethe and Leonardo da Vinci. In this  same spirit we submitted, An the occasion uf the cen-  tenary of the death of Adam Mickiewicz, a proposal to  commemorate this great Polish poet, who from Poland,  Moscow, Paris, Lausanne and Rome preached the gos-  pel of progress and of the brotherhood of man,
(86) Finally, our delegation intends to support all ac-  tivity in the field of press, radio and film which aims  at putting an end to war propaganda and aggression, to  hostile propaganda against other States and nations  and which will help to develop information in ‘he spirit  of international understanding, in the spirit of collect-  ive security, in the spirit of broad culture and  economic exchange among all nations.
(87) We cannot turn a blind eye to the fact that in  some countries a propaganda of revenge and hatred is  being spread and supported, finding its way into text-  books and permeating literature, art, press and ra-  dio. Dangerous militarist slogans are being revived,  and find their way into schools and scientific institu-  tions. We cannot watch this with indifference just as  we cannot but oppose racial discrimination and  national and racial persecution.
(88) I have had to mention here today certain facts,  among others, which lead to the weakening of our Or-  ganization, There are however other positive symp-  toms which testify to the growing strength of Unesco.  The joining of our Organization by the nations of the  Soviet Union, with which Poland is united by indis-  soluble ties of friendship, a great power not only  from the political and economic points of view, butal-  so a great cultural power, opens up new and broad  horizons for the development of international  co-operation in the field of culture.
(89) The eighth session of the General Conference of  Unesco may be of great importance in the history of  our Organization if we grasp the new possibilities of-  fered by the improvement in the international situa-  tion and if we take advantage of the outward expansion and  the inner reinforcement of Unesco. Let us seek in our  everyday work understanding, solutions based  upon mutual agreement; let us find a common  language and communicate on friendly terms,  - 76 -   PLENARY  irrespective of differences in our political  structures.
(90) The last fifty years have brought greater changes  than past millenniums, Distance has been abolished.  In the days of Caesar a messenger despatched to Gaul  had to travel as long as, but no longer than a messen-  ger sent by Napoleon from Italy to France. Uruguay  was a very long way from Poland. Today the dis-  tance between us has been reduced to 30 hours of  flight. But although the physical distances between  nations have been eliminated, many prejudices still  divide the peoples of the world. The banner of the  United Nations has, alas, already been unfurled on  the battlefield, May that banner flutter only over the  seat of conferences devoted to the achievement of  friendly co-operation between the nation: in the cause  of peace, culture and human welfare.
(91) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I call upon Mr. Sommerfelt, Head of the delegationof  Norway.
(92) Mr. SCMMERFELT (Norway): Mr. President,  fellow delegates, it is a great experience for a citi-  zen of a northern State to visit this country, which is  so distant from his own geographically, but which is  akin to it in -lemocratic spirit. Our stay in Monte-  video will remain a memorable event in the life of  each one of us and also in the history of Unesco.
(93) Unesco is now holding the eighth session of its  General Conference. For one who has taken part in  its activities from the beginning, it 1s a satisfaction  to see how the work has been gradually getting into  shape. On the whole, the Norwegian Governmenthas  no serious criticism of the programme for 1955-56,  There may, of course, be items on the importance of  which we are of a different opinion from that of the  programme and budget document, and others which we  think might be dropped altogether. But such items  are few. The tun.Lr” of Member States having in-  creased, the Norwegian Government tnhiunz th~*acau-  tious expansion of the programme is justified. We are  whole-heartedly behind the help to the so-called un-  derdeveloped countries and we are of the opinion that  the programme of fundamental education is of parti-  cular moment inthat respect. But we must not forget  that Unesco has also other tasks, the task of pro-  moting collaboration between the creative forces in  education, science and culture. Unesco must draw  these forces into its orbit to a greater extent than  hitherto.
(94) I am thinking especially of the great internation-  al non-governmental organizations like ICSU, CIPSH,  the Theatre Institute, the International Association of  Plastic Arts, and others, These institutions, which  are planned by experts, must be called upon to do all  such work as Unesco's Secretariat can only do less  well and more expensively, Unesco's policy of sub-  ventions and contracts is therefore, in the view of the  Norwegian Government, of very great importance.  Both subventions and contracts should be used freely,  but only for well specified purposes and under strict  control.
(95) As regards staffing policy, the Norwegian Gov-  ernment has followed recent developments with some  concern. In our country we have strong traditions of  individual liberty, and our civil servants are protected  = 177 -     MEETINGS 1-3  by law against undue influence. It seems to us that  freedom of conscience must be safeguarded at all costs,  and we hope that an arrangement will be found by which  this freedom, which is one of Unesco's ruling con-  cepts, will not be endangered.
(86) Unesco must not become a political organization  It was never conceived as such when we prepared for  it in London and drew up its Constitution. Unescohas  to work for peace in the realm of the spirit.
(97) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):
1 call upon the representative of Thailand.
(88) Mrs. Pin MALAKUL (Thailand): Mr. President,  I am very pleased to be at a Unesco General Confer-  ence once again, and it is a great honour to have the  opportunity to address this distinguished gathering .My  first thoughts go to the Uruguayan Government who  kindly invited us to this wonderful city, and allowed us  meet in this splendid palace. In the name of the Thai  delegation, I should like to express our thanks. Apart  from that, I have to thank my fellow delegates for  doing us the great honour of nominating Thailand a  Vice-Presiuent of the Conference.
(99) As far as I know, our delegation will have made  the longest journey to Montevideo, covering a distance  of approximately fifteen thousand miles. During that  long journey, we visited the countries of many Mem-  ber States of Unesco, and we learned a great deal  from them. To Thailand, Latin American countries  are practically at the opposite end of the world, yet we  have many problems in common - similar problems in  different settings.
(100) On our way, we saw a number of Unesco pro-  Jects in operation - the most exciting of which was  that at Patzcuaro. Talking about fundamental educa-  tion, I am pleased to note that, during the period  under review in the Director-General's Report a Se-  cond Regional Centre was opened in Egypt, and that it  is doing well, I am happy to report, too, that under  the Expanded Programme of Technical Assistance,  Thailand has opened a Fundamental Education Centre  at Ubol. The Thai Government has spent no less  than half a million dollars on the project,
(101) I would like to thank Unesco for the assistance  given to Thailand, especially on two major projects -  the fundamental education project at Ubol just men-  tioned and the Chachoengsao project, where we are  attempting to improve the standard of education at all  levels within a limited area. As you know, this Cha-  choengsao project is now approaching its fifth year.  But, as the Director-General himself has said in the  report, in the spheres which are the particular con-  cern of Unesco, nothing is ever completed. I hope  that this Chachoengsao project is a particular coneern  of Unesco, and that Unesco will continue to give itas-  sistance. That is to say, I hope that assistance from  Unesco will not cease at the end of 1955, as stated in  a chapter in the proposed Programme and Budget of  Technical Assistance.
(102) Now, I should like to say a few words about  the experts sent to work on projects, We cannot  complain when you sent us such eminent persons as  Sir Charles Darwin and Dr, Huxley. But experts  often get short-term contracts, too short to be of  real service to the projects, I happen to beon  our National Commission and, every time we meet,
1-5 PLENARY  there are reports of experts going and coming. ex-  pect this is the case in many countries, I really hope  that, in the future, experts will be given more time  to do their work.
(103) Referring to the report of the Director-General  now before us, I should like to congratulate Dr.Evans  on this his first report to the General Conference. It  is in @ form easy to read and will be very useful as a  reference document, Its substance shows, in a few  words, that Unesco is driving towards concentration  of effort on work already started. This is also our  policy in carrying out Unesco projects in Thailand.
(104) I am pleased to notice that under Cultural Ac-  tivities, there are continuing efforts in the fields of  libraries, museums and fine arts. 1 was much in-  terested in reading the chapter about the Brussels  Conference on the Role and Place of Music in Educa-  tion, and look forward to reading its proceedings  when they are published. This, because at the pre-  sent time we in Thailand are trying to introduce mu-  sic intu schools more seriously than before. As you  know, the Brussels Conference was crowned by the  "Canticle of Hope”, specially composed for the occas-  ion. I was pleased to hear that symphonic work in  Montevideo, sung so beautifully at the opening of our  Conference last Friday.
(105) Before concluding, I should like to express my  thanks, on behalf of Thailand, to the Director-General  and the Chairman of the Executive Board for their  visit to my country early this year, as mentioned in  the supplementary report. During their visit they  spent half an hour at our new Broadcasting Station,  which is devoted entirely to education, science and  culture, Since their visit, this Broadcasting Station  has been giving Unesco news very regularly, withthe  result that teachers, students and the public in gener-  al are becoming more Unesco-minded. The Director-  General said on Saturday that he was trying to create  confidence, so important was the attitude of the world  towards Unesco. I! am pleased to inform him that, in  my opinion, his task in Thailand is no longer a  difficult one. ‘
(106) That our people are taking greater interest in  Unesco is obvious from the fact that they are more  and more joining our United Nations Association. This  Association, with a woman as its President, celebra-  ted United Nations Day in Bangkok, last month, by  giving a performance illustrating the work of the Uni-  ted Nations and the Specialized Agencies. Residents  of many nationalities in Bangkok took part in this pro-  gramme, which, I have just heard from home, was a  great success,
(107) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish  I call upon Mr. Paik, Head of the delegation of Korea,
(108) Mr. PAIK (Korea): Mr. President, ladies and  gentlemen, the Korean delegation, at the ou'set,wish-  es to thank the Uruguayan Government and people for  their hospirality in receiving the Conference in their  beautiful country and alsc for their generous partici-  pation in the emergency relief programme in Korea,  We are grateful, too, to the Executive Board, to our  wise Director-General and his colleagues for their  successful conduct of the work of the Or-  ganization since the last Conference.  - 78 -     MEETINGS
(109) The Korean delegation wishes also to express to  the distinguished members of this Conference its pro-  found appreciation of the constructive efforts made to  rehabilitate our war-devastated country, We have  seen, during the past two years, the completion of the  textbook printing plant with the timely assistance of  $100,000 from this august body and $140,000 from the  United Nations Korean Reconstruction Agency. This  printing plant, with its up-to-date equipment, stands as  a landmark in the progress of the permanent rehabili-  tation of Korea, concrete evidence of the collective  system for world progress. We have also been placed  under a great debt of gratitude by the steps taken to  implement the fundamental education recommendations  of the 1953 Unesco-UNKRA Education Planning Mis-  sion to Korea, by the flow of goodwill from all parts of  the world to our schools through gift coupons, by the  continuation of the technical assistance programme -  its amount reduced but its quality improved - and by  the opportunity given for the training of the Secretary  of our National Commission at Unesco headquarters in  Paris.
(110) The National Commission of Korza was finally  inaugurated in January 1954, and its headquarters es-  tablished and staffed for the more vigorous prosecu-  tion of the multiple activities of Unesco. We have  found, like other Member States of the Organization,  that, through the work of the National Commissionand  the assistance given to our rehabilitation programme,  the aims and ideals of Unesco are becoming Letter  known to increasing numbers of our people. But:here  is much room for further development. We cannot af-  ford to disappoint people who are expecting much from  the programme of this Organization. In this connex-  ion, we hope that the time will soon come when our  National Commission will be given the benefit of the  wisdom and experience of a headquarters staff mem-  ber, for our Unesco work in Korea.
(111) In Unesco documents, a programme for rebuild  ing the Korean educational system figures under the  head of emergency assistance. An emergency should  be a case which requires immediate remedial action.  If collective efforts are delayed, the case will become  a chronic one. The time has now come for immediate  action for rehabilitation in all phases of work that is to  ensure freedom and progress. Our Government wish-  es further and wider implementation of the Five Year  Plan recommended by theEducational Planning Mis-  sion. It will be recalled that the Mission devoted  most of its attention to a reorientation of the content  and methods of education, We believe the content of  the new education and the methods of teaching in our  schools would be very greatly improved if more were  known about curricula and teaching methods abroad.  Fellowships for foreign study should be provided to  established teachers and administrators who have  proved their capacity for leadership in education,Tech  nical assistance for scientific and technical teaching  and research is greatly needed in Korea for improv-  ing the conditions of life. We cannot and must not  deny to the war-torn people of Korea the blessings that  modern inventions in science and technology have  brought to human well-being and happiness. In a less  industrialized country, like Korea, a programme for  mass communication provides important educational  media. Instructional films ,audio-visualandtechnical   PLENARY  aids in development of mass communication, are  eagerly sought in order to increase international con-  tacts and the discovery of fresh knowledge. Cultural  relics and the works of art created in the course of  our long history have been found and preserved. But  the same systematic collection, careful preservation  and widespread use must be extended to our national  treasures in the field of education, Creative writers,  artists, playwrights and other cultural groups must  enjoy conditions conducive to the production of works  of beauty and truth. The recent organization of the  Korean Branch of the International PEN Club should  receive the attention of similar bodies in other Mem-  ber States, both for its own sake and for the sake of  the exchange of ideas.
(112) I should be guilty of concealing the truth if ire-  frained from reiterating the need of the physical re-  habilitation of our school buildings and equipment.  This need has received priority attention from Mem-  ber States and several United Nations agencies and  organizations have done much to meet it. But when  we compare the extent of those needs with the actual  work done, we must confess that we are still at the  beginning. Tens of thousands of classrooms have yet  to be provided, if possible with a modern type of ar-  chitecture better adapted to the Korean setting and  natural environment, Teaching materials, labora-  tory instruments, apparatus, supplies and extra-cur-  ricula equipment must be brought in from abroad not  only to restore the original conditions, but to meet in-  creasing needs due to the natural growth of the school  popuiation, Thus, we should mobilize all resources  to restore the educetional, scientific and cultural in-  stitutions devastated by the war. At the same time  we must not lose sight of the long-term objectives of  Unesco, the establishment of world peace through the  meeting of minds,
(113) The war in Korea has stopped, But it has stopped,  only to legalize and perpetuate the most unnatural  division of the country. Power politics have dis-  regarded the fact of the unity of the Korean people. A  divided Korea is a sorry symbol of the failure of the  United Nations thus far to fulfil the requirements of  its Charter and the hopes of mankind. Korea is the  touchstone of the ability of nations to solve their pro-  blems without committing mass suicide. From the  point of view of world peace and security, the reunifi-  cation and independence of Korea are indispensable.  We, the Korean people, north and south, confidently  and impatiently demand that the free will of the peo-  ple be allowed expression in an election controlled by  the United Nations.
(114) We of this age are eagerly seeking peace and  security, but we know that peace and security will not  come through denial of the sanctity of the human per-  sonality anddisregard of human rights. These human  ideals can only be realized through devotion to the  concept and activation of collective security and through  our determination to preserve the peace and honour of  all nations, small or large, over-industrialized or  less industrialized. Conflicts and tensions in the  present-day world are only outward manifestations of  man's inner conflict and anguish. Unesco is the  moral and spiritual expression of the United Nations.  May the work of this year's great Assembly chart a  new road towards the fuller realization of justice  and freedom.    MEETINGS 1-5
(115) Before I close, I wish to make a remark or two  on the Director-General's Report. | wish that there  could have been more frequent and closer contacts be-  tween Unesco and the United Nations Korean Recon-  struction Agency in the implementation of the Five  Year Plan, Such co-ordination between the two bo-  dies and constant consultation with our Government  would have enabled these agencies to accomplish more,  I also note with regret that the small subvention to the  World Confederation of Organizations of the Teaching  Profession has been reduced in the proposed budget.  We who are engaged in teaching cannot but feel that  the subvention to that world confederation should be  restored to its previous amount at least. In closing,l  wish to congratulate Dr. Luther Evans, our eminent  Director-General, on the magnitude of his accomplish-  meats within the time allowed him.
(116) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish:  I call upon the delegate of the Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics.
(117, Mr. STOLETOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Re-  publics) (Translation from the Russian): Mr. Presi-  dent, ladies and gentlemen, the delegation of the  Soviet Union has asked me to greet the delegates and  guests at the eighth General Conference of Unesco and  to express the hope that all the participants of the Com  ference will direct their effort. to making the work of  our session constructive anc in the highest degree com  ducive to the fulfilment of the tasks with which work-  ers in the spheres of culture and science have to cope  in serving the cause of peace and strengthening co-  operation between the peoples.
(118) Among the questions on the agenda of the General  Conference there 1s the question of preparing a history  of mankind in the field of science and culture, Soviet  scientists are prepared to take an active part in  this important, interesting and valuable undertaking of  Unesco,
(119) The history of mankind in the field of science  and culture is an inexhaustible source of wisdom and  knowledge. It is a generally recognized conclusion of  history that, if science, culture and education are to  be successfully and thoroughly developed, care must  be taken constantly and persistently to see that the  peaceful development of the human intellect 1s not in-  terrupted by such odious episodes as wars waged for  the sake of profit o1 for the enslavement of one people  by another.
(120) The history of mankind has no record of scien-  tists deeply concerned for the future of science who  would at the same time advocate the idea of war, His-  tory proves the contrary. Eminent figures in the  fields of science, literature and art everywhere were  humanists because of their scientific studies and of  their works, which have become part and parcel of the  heritage of the civilized world. They called menand  women to follow the path of freedom, peace and peace-  ful constructive work. Such leaders of science and  culture, whatever their nationality, are immensely  respected and beloved by the Soviet people, All men of  learning who advance the cause of science have always  been united by the great humanitarian purpose of serving  their people and by working for the welfare of humanity.
(121) Contemporary workers in the spheres of science  and culture in all countries and among all peoples,  - 79 -
1-5 PLENARY  correctly reflecting the aspirations of their peoples,  are also active supporters of the ideas of peace. It is  for them an indisputable fact that the idea of the peace-  ful coexistence of countries with different social sys-  tems is historically justified and should be a guiding  principle in relations between peoples. Anyone who  nowadays asserts that the difference insocialsystems  is a cause of present international tension and a po-  tential cause of a new world war is, intenticaally or  otherwise, defying the lessons rf history and playing  into the hands of the warmongers. Scientific and cul-  tural workers in the Soviet Union are convinced that,  if the principle of the equality of all peoples is honest-  ly and consistently obeyed, if attempts to impose de-  cisions in international relations are completely aban-  doned, if national sovereignty is mutually respected  and if countries refrain from interfering in the affairs  of other countries, it is quite possible in present-day  international affairs to achieve a further relaxationof  international tensions and preserve peace on earth,
(122) The solution of the controversial or outstand-  ing issues in international life by means of negotia-  tion is, in our opinion, the most humanitarian of all  the ideals which were ever developed and defended by  great humanists throughout the history of mankind.
(123) The aim of the United Nations Educational,  Scientific and Cultural Organization, as stated in its  Constitution, is to contribute to the diffusion of science,  culture and education, to contribute to the strengthen-  ing of cultural ties between the nations and in this way  to work for peace. Surely, the work of our Organizæ  tion can only be successful if it uses all the means at  its disposal to popularize the 1dea of a peaceful settle-  ment of all controversial issues in international life.
(124) The seventh session of the General Conference  of Unesco adopted a resolution calling upon all Mem-  ber States to further the objectives of international  peace, mutual understanding and the common welfare  of mankind. We readily join in this appeal. But  every appeal calls for concrete action. If the procla-  mation of a particular idea is not followed by deeds,  practical actions, then the idea may become anempty  sham. An idea that is not backed by practical deeds  is dead.
(125) If we want to give effect to this decision,we  must take practical action against disseminating the  ideas of war. Propaganda in favour of the ideas of  war, ideas of enmity between peoples is utterly in-  consistent with the principles proclaimed in the Con-  stitution of our Organization. In this connexion the  Soviet delegation attaches great importance to steps  being taken to prevent the utilization of mass com-  munication for the propaganda of war and all other  propaganda which tends to sow enmicy and hatred  among the peoples. Books, songs, fi'ms, pictures  and radio - all these forms of culture should serve  the aims of strengthening cultural ties between the  peoples, and of spreading the idea of friendship be-  tween peoples, the ideas of peace.
(126) As far as the Soviet Union is concerned,the idea  of war as a means of settling controversies or differ-  ences between peoples is utterly rejected by our  people, As anexpressionof cur people's inflexible re-  solve for peace the Soviet Government has enacted le-  gislation condemning all kinds of war propaganda as a  heinous crime. In the Soviet newspapers and books,  on film screens and in radio broadcasts, in our songs    MEETINGS  and on the stage, nowhere will you find a call to war,  or a glorification of the forces of death and destruc-  tion, The intelligentsia of the Soviet Union is the fore-  most, unbending adversary of war and thus the fore-  most, irreconcilable adversary of using cultural re-  sources for propaganda in favour of war. This is the  spirit in which Soviet intellectuals are bringing up the  younger generation in the Soviet Union.
(127) The great “tober Socialist Revolution brought  about radical social changes in our country. These  changes formed the basis on which the Soviet people  have achieved successes in the development of science,  culture and education. The October Revolution lib-  erated the manual and scientific workers, ensured the  full development of the creative forces and abilities of  all the people. As a result, science, culture andedu-  cation are developing in our country with ever greater  rapidity.
(128) The Soviet Government is constantly devoting  all its attention to the development of science, culture  and education. This year, more than one-fourth of  the enormous State budget of the Soviet Union has been  appropriated for education and for satisfying the social  and cultural needs of the population. Our country has  for a long time past had universal compulsory and free  education covering seven years. At the present time  the task of introducing a universal ten-year course of  education is being successfully accomplished. In the  USSR today more than 57 million people are catered  for by the various systems of education. This means  that one-fourth of all Soviet citizens are at school.  They have more than 380,000 public libraries at their  disposal.
(129) In pre-revolutionary Russia there were only 92  higher educational institutions with 112,000 students.  Today the USSR has about 900 higher educational  institutions.In 1954,1, 706,000 students were study-  ing in them. In 1953 about 90,000 scientific workers-  professors, lecturers and assistants - were employed  in the Soviet higher educational system.
(130) Access to the universities and high schools of  our country is freely available to all young people with-  out distinction of sex, nationality, race, religious be-  liefs or property. Personal ability and personal  skill - these are the only criteria applied in selecting  young people for higher education,
(131) The development of higher education and educa-  tion at all other levels exercises an extremely favour-  able influence on the development of all the national  cultures of the peoples of the Soviet Union. The Soviet  peoples, by fostering the best traditions established in  the literature and art of the Russian nation ani of the  other nations of former Russia, have created theirown  new literature, new theatre, music, cinema, painting,  architecture and sculpture,
(132) The various forms of culture in the Soviet Union,  including education, are being developed in each Re-  public in the specific forms peculiar to the national  character of each people. Quite naturally, thercfore,  the Soviet Union has a very great variety of cultural  activities. This variety, as our experience proves,  not only enriches the culture but also contributes to its  successful development. Thus, the talents of eachna-  tionality are afforded the fullest opportunities for  expansion in every direction.
(133) The further development cf our Soviet society  towards progress, towards the comprehensive and  - 80 -   PLENARY  complete satis action of the material and cultural  needs of everyoae, demands the all-round development  of its every nation, every people, and every single  individual, Ve would consider any social system  that existed in our country to be pointless and re-  trograde if it did not offer a solution of these tasks.  That is why our State is constantly striving to ensure  the all-round development of the abilities, talents and  personal qualities of every individual.
(134) The national cultures of the Soviet Union ,varied  though they are, have something in common. This is  the fact that all our various cultures are bringing peo-  ple up in a spirit of love for peace, love for peaceful,  creative labour, in a spirit of friendship and co-op-  eration among the peoples of one and the same nation,  in à spirit of friendship and co-operation between all  nations. Such an upbringing, such an education  moulds optimists out of people, who look towards  their future boldly and confidently.
(135) In this great era of the discovery of atomic en  ergy, feelings of pessimism have sprung up and are  becoming widespread in certain sections of represen-  tatives of intellectual workers in the West: why,they  wonder, has science discovered nuclear energy,which  can be used as a monstrous weapon for the mass an-  nihilation of peoples? Such pessimism 1s alien to  the Soviet people, to the Soviet intelligentsia. The  Soviet peonles rejoice at every conquest achieved by  science, including the discovery of nuclear energy.  They rejoice because their Government is steadily  fighting for the unconditional prohibition of atomic  and hydrogen weapons. The Soviet people, too, are  confident that nuclear energy will be used only in the  service of peace. The Soviet delegation considers  that our Organization - Unesco - has every chance of  playing a great and noble role in the solution of this  humanitarian problem.
(136) The Soviet Union has acquired great experience  in the development of science, culture and education  in the service of the peace and prosperity of its 200  million multi-national inhabitants. Soviet men of  science, culture and education are willing to share  their experience with those nations who desire it With  this aim in view we are prepared to take an active  part in the series of international meetings and con-  ferences suggested in the proposed programme of  Unesco.
(137) The high level of university education in the  Soviet Union enables us to lend assistan~e in this  field to those countries which request it. A consider-  able number of students and graduates from several  countries are being taught in our higher educational  institutions. The Soviet Government is prepared to  give favourable consideration to the question of award-  ing university scholarships in inst.tutions of higher  education to students from underdeveloped countries  out of the Soviet contributions to the UN Technical  Assistance Fund.
(138) Soviet workers in science, culture and educa-  tion have never confined their activities within the  boundaries of their own country. They have always  sought to assimilate the valuable experience of other  nations and States and tu put it at the service of their  people. USSR publishing houses are do.ng a zryex-  tensive and comprehensive job 1n creating the ..2ces-  sary conditions for enabling the Soviet people to be-  come acquainted with the achievements of world science    MEETINGS II-5  and culture. In this connexion I would like to cite  some figures. For the period from 1918 to 1954,USSR  publishing houses translated into Russian and the other  national languages of the USSR the works of 1,658 for-  eign authors. The total number of books by these au-  thors which have been translated in our country during  this period amounts to 13,500, Not only are the works  of European and American authors widely published in  the Soviet Union, but also those of authors from other  parts of the world. In particular, books by Chinese,  Indian, Persian, Korean, Japanese authors, as well  as authors of other Asian countries, are being more  and more widely published, The situation 1s similar  as regards books on science, philosophy and current  affairs. The Soviet Union daily receives a reat num-  ber of foreign publications. Thus, in 1954, the Soviet  higher educational institutions alone acquired 2,500  scientific magazines of various kinds.
(139) The Soviet people are greatly interested in the  development of the national cultures of the countries  of Asia. Some time ago a Festival of Indian films was  held in all the cities of the USSR with great success.  The Soviet people gave a warm welcome to the per-  formances of artists from India. The recent visit to  our country of Indian university professors and students  aroused great interest amongst the professors and s.u-  dents of our universities. Comprehensive culturql  co-operation betweenthe Soviet Union and the Chinese  People's Republic 1s growing stronger from year to  year. And the Soviet people view with great satisfac-  tion China's enormous progress in the development of  science, culture and education, The Soviet people are  greatly interested in and sympathetic towards the de-  velopment of the culture of allthe Asian peoples, and  are prepareu to render them every possible assistance  in this great cause.
(140) The Soviet Union displays an unfailing and com-  prehensive interest in the development of the culture  of other regions of the world, as is proved by the ex-  pansion and consolidation of its cultural relations with  other countries. During the first nine months of 1954  alone, over 300 delegations of Soviet scientific,cult:ir-  al and educational workers paid visits to other coun-  tries. In the same period we welcomed in the Soviet  Union delegations of scientific, cultural and educational  workers from 72 countries,
(141) The Soviet delegation is confident that the all-  round expansion of cultural bonds between nations  will contribute to the improvement of mutual under-  standing between the peoples and to the cunsolidation  of universal peace, which in its turn corresponds to  the fundamental interests of all nations.
(142) The Soviet Union is prepared to make its own  contribution towards the further consolidation and  broadening of the cultural ties between peoples, and  trusts that all partici~ants in the General Confer-  ence will ma'e every effort to the same end,so that  Unesco may be enabled successfully to fulfil the  tasks laid down in its Constitution,
(143) In conclusion, Mr. President, allow me to  express our gratitude to the Government of Uru-  guay for the great trouble it has taken in orga-  nizing and holding the present session of the  General Conference of Unesco in the city of  Montevideo.  The meeting rose at 12.50 p.m.  - 81 -