I-10 PLENARY  which is The Cross and the Sword) is t>e only one that  has been published, but the Anthology of Mexican  Poetry and the Marti volume will be released within  the next twelve months. We are now negotiating for  the publication of two more volumes: Los {ltimos  dias coloniales en el Alto Perû by Gabriel René-  Moreno, and Tabaré by the great Uruguayan poet  Zorrilla de San Martin. The translation of ail the  aforesaid works was the responsibility of Unesco.  OAS has also assumed responsibility for a new trans-  lation of the Comentaries Reales by Inca Garcilaso  and has started to negotiate for the translation and  publication of a volume of Cuentos by Monteiro  Lobato and Viajes by Sarmiento.
(194) I regret having taken up more time than I  should have with an extremely detailed and almost  bureaucratic account of the activities that are being  carried out jointly in Latin America by Unesco and    MEETINGS  OAS in the various branches of science and culture.  But small, everyday activities are as important in  the life of man as the exploits of great heroes.
(195) The noble aim of Unesco is to ensure justice,  freedom and peace, through education, science and  culture. And it is also the purpose that inspires the  countries of the Organization of American States,  But the realization of this ideal, this hope, this grand  dream necessarily lies in the hands of a legion of  obscure heroes - teachers, writers, artists, scien-  tists, thinkers - and to these we must finally add all  men of goodwiil. We are gathered here on this soil  of Uruguay, in this land that is receiving us so gen-  erously, and in an atmosphere of freedom, tolerance  and democratic dignity, to give impetus to this idea,  this hope, this grand dream,  The meeting rose at 1.30 p.m.  TENTH PLENARY MEETING
17 November 1954 at 3.45 p.m.  President: Mr. ZAVALA MUNIZ (Uruguay)  CONTENTS  Discussion of the Director-General's Report (end): Speeches  by the delegates of Liberia, Honduras, Bolivia and Nicaragua . . 152  Reply by the Director- General  DISCUSSION OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL'S REPORT
(1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spamsh):
1 call upon the Head of the delegation of Liberia.
(2) Mr. KNIGHT (Liberia): Mr. President and  fellow delegates: The delegation of Liberia would  have liked to take a far larger share than this in the  lively, inspiring and most profitable debate on the  reports of the Executive Board and the Director-  General, so befittingly commented upon by the dele-  gates who have preceded me.
(3) The pattern of mutual understanding and joint  co-operation that has characterized the contacts,  intercourse and activities between the Secretariat  and my Government and the mutual benefits already  derived therefrom are too important and spectacular  not to be at least amplified before this assembly.  Even these brief remarks do not, in the opinion of  my Government and delegation, adequately convey  their gratitude for the interest and assistance ac-  corded us by the Director-General, through the  Secretariat's technical assistance programme,
(4) My delegation had hoped that by now, our  Chairman, Professor Massaquoi, would have  arrived with such views, comments and suggestions  as our Government would desire the delegation to  offer during the general debate. But owing perhaps,  to an extended schedule of the visit to the United  States of America, paid at the kind invitation of  President Eisenhower, by c .r illustrious Chief of  State, accompanied by Professor Massaquoi, it  seems, however, that our Chairman will only  arrive within the next five or ten days.
(5) The delegation of Liberia could not permit this  debate to terminate without recording the layman's    #4 60 1 2 0 0 6 0 + + >» XY  views and considerations of the ultimate meaning  and objectives of our honoured institution. So far  as the cultivation and development of human rela-  tions are concerned, we are completely convinced  that Unesco is the only solid foundation of a lasting  universal peace.
(6) We are privileged to have been accredited to  the seventh session of the General Conference,  which has now passed into history as a most criti-  cal stage in Unesco's development, if not the real  test of its will to survive. Even the most pre ju-  diced, if there be any, might unhesitatingly join in  the chorus of praise and commendation, first, to  Dr. Taylor, whose difficult and unenviable lot it  was to fill the unfortunate breach in the walls of  Unesco's solidarity, occasioned by the sudden  resignation of Dr, Torres Bodet, and the very  serious repercussions that followed. Secondly, to  Dr. Luther Evans, our resourceful, progressive  and highly specialized Director-General.
(7) The glowing tributes paid to these eminent  intellectuals and adininistrators by previous spea-  kers are no mere platitudes; they are a genuine  acknowledgment of gratitude for universal humani-  tarian services well performed. My country and  delegation most enthusiastically and sincerely join  in this chorus.
(8) With particular regard to specific projects  jointly undertaken by Unesco, through its technical  assistance services, and my Government, the  report of the Director-General contains an up-to-  date account. In the considered view of the Liberian  Government and people, Unesco has demonstrated  the kind of co-operation that could be emulated  with advantage internationally, by the successful  - 152 -   PLENARY  accomplishment of certain limited projects carried  out in Liberia. Since applying for technical assist-  ance, my Government, in pursuance of ite policy of  contributing liberally to, if not far in excess of, any  outside ald and assistance made available, has  appropriated and expended a large part of its annual  revenue on JULEP, teacher training, science tea h-  ing at the University of Liberia, on fundamental ed-  ucation and technical training, while an even larger  contribution and increased activities are comem-  plated for 1855.
(8) While looking hopefully to the continuation by  Unesco of the above projects and to the possibility  of a sizeable increase in funds and activities, more  than justified by the special needs of Liberia, I  should like to emphasize that, ever since its found-  ation, barring two decades of colonial existence  under a private and limited American company,  Liberia and its Government were completely lacking  in the means and economic backing to develop its  culture and to spread education among the masses  of its population until 12 years ago, and even then  development was on a very moderate and limited  scale. The national progress could not stand com-  parison with that of Liberia's neighbours, Sierra  Leone and the French Guinea and Ivory Coast, which  have enjoyed a preponderance of economic support,  centuries of cultural and educational experience and  facilities made freely available to them. These  basic facts should be taken into corsideration in any  fair and unbiased appraisal of my country's present  needs and of what it has thus far achievr.d in the way  of political, economic and cultural advsncement.
(10) The decision of the seventh session of the Gen-  eral Conference of Unesco to convene: its eighth and  current session on the great South American conti-  nent, and at Montevideo, capital of the model,  traditionally peace-loving country of Uruguay, is,  in our humble estimation, a wise step towards the  goa: of selling Unesco directly to the peoples of the  world, so as to win thei: abiding faith and  confidence.
(11) In view of what looks like a healthy change in  the international climate, it is more than a coinci-  dence in time that this fr:edom-loving country and  its capital are playing the rôle of host to the eighth  session of the General Conference of Unesco, at  this important psycholcgical juncture in the evolu-  tion of a world community.
(12) In our considered opinion, the enjoyment by  Uruguay of this privilege and honour is merited and  testifies to international esteem for, and recogni-  tion of, the invaluable contribution its Government  and people have made culturally, socially and poli-  tically to the cultivation of universal goodwill,  understanding, co-operation and peace.
(13) For us, it is a great privilege to be associated  with our distinguished colleagues of Member States  in their laudable efforts to work at this General  Conference for the spiritual and cultural reawaken-  ing, the enlightenment and development of mankind.  These efforts, if persevered in, will be recognized  by future historians and coming generations as the  first hopeful ray of light in the dawn of an era of  lasting world peace and happiness.
(14) Our country has placed unswerving faith in  Unesco from its very beginnings, when it was    - 153 -  MEETINGS 1-10  generally regarded as an experiment, and our  Government and people have since confirmed that  faith in terms of concrete activity. We pledge  Liberia's continued collaboration and co-operation  with Member States, the Executive Board and the  Secretariat, in the execution of the ambitious but  rewarding task of implanting virtue and truth in  the minds and consciences of mankind through a  universal Unesco.
(15) From the particular viewpoint of those areas  of the African continent embracing the British  Colony and Protectorate of Sierra Leone, the  French overseas territories of Guinea and Ivory  Coast, the British Colony of the Gold Coast and the  sole sovereign State of Liberia, one of the out-  standing events of this General Conference is the  unanimous admission to associate membership of  Sierra Leone and the Gold Coast. It was a very  great pleasure indeed to my country and delegation  to join in the enthusiastic welcome that was accord-  ed the distinguished representatives of these two  strategic, culturally advanced and progressive  West African areas of the British Commonwealth  of Nations, at the third plenary meeting of this  Conference. The Liberian Government and dele-  gation therefore offer their sincere congratulations  to Her Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom  and its accredited delegation at this Conference,  upon this enlightened act, which we hope will  eventuate, in the not too distant future, in the  admission of these two areas as full-fledged  members of the Organization. Having had the  honour and privilege to serve for these many years  as the only fully qualified spokesmen and advocates  of the African masses inhabiting the West Coast,  it will be for us a day of profound joy when other  fully qualified countries of our region are permit-  ted to take their rightful places in the galaxy of  free nations.
(16) To our generous, hospitable and friendly  hosts, the Government and people of Uruguay, we  express the sincere appreciation and gratitude of  ourselves and of our Goverrment and people, for  the kindness and cordiality so spontaneously ex-  tended to us, in common with our colleagues of  other Member States. We shall leave Montevideo  with pleasant and unfading memories, and shall  not fail to report these acts of generosity and  hospitality to our Government and people.
(17) May we, one and all, great and small, leave  these halls, constructed as it would seem, upon  foundations of international solidarity, edified and  kindled by the singleness of purpose, the high  endeavour and firm determination shown in the  task of raising a super-structure of goodwill,  sympathetic understanding, co-operation and uni-  versal fraternity in the minds of our respective  peoples, thus heralding the dawn of an era of  lasting peace and happiness for all.
(18) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Span-  ish): I call upon Professor Bardales, Head of the  delegation of Honduras.
(19) Mr. BARDALES (Honduras) (Translation  from the Spanish): Mr. President, Mr. Director-  General, ladies and gentlemen: It is with deep   I-10 PLENARY  satisfaction that the delegation of Honduras, on be-  half of its Government, expresses its very sincere  gratitude to the Government and people of Uruguiy  for the kind hespitality offered to us during our stay  in the Uruguayan capital, on the occasion of the  eighth session of the Unesco General Conference.  At the same time it fervently trusts that the demo-  cracy embodied in the Constituticn of Uruguay,  guaranteed by the Government and the Executive  Power, and daily reflected in the civic life of the  Uruguayan people, may go on from strength to  strength as an example and pattern for the nations  of the world.
(20) The object of the present debate is to pass  judgment upon the work accomplished by Unesco  during the most recent period of its activity and  the Government of Honduras is happy to express its  appreciation of the numerous achievements spon-  sored and directed by Unesco in the various Member  States. Unesco's objective is nothing less than the  improvement of education throughout the world so  that there may be a better type of humanity in every  quarter of the globe.
(21) Of the many activities of Unesco, some are of  outstanding importance. Such, for example, is the  activity known as fundamental education, the great-  est of all because it reaches down to the masses,  to all the humble folk throughout the world.
(22) The object of fundamental education is to instil  certain minima of knowledge, attitudes, habits and  interests, so as to raise the intellectual and social  level of the world. This activity, in which Unesco  has always been fittingly assisted by the Organiza -  tion of American States, through the Department of  Fducation, is one of those which receives the mcst  sympathy and : apport from the Government of  Honduras.
(23) The reason is not far to seek. The work has  not been confined to solving the problems of training  teachers but has also dealt with new techniques in  the preparation of materials and the selective org-  anization of curricula, so that teaching methods and  fundamental education in general may be more  effective in improving the lot of the simple country  dweller.
(24) In Latin America this work enjoys the distin-  guished co-operation of the Regional Fundamental  Education Centre for Latin America at Patzcuaro,  whose particular responsibility is the training of  the necessary staff for the fundamental education  campaigns and programmes in the Western  Hemisphere.
(25) Honduras, which for various reasons has  hitherto been unable to associate with Unesco in  carrying out a project on any aspect of education,  has had an opportunity of taking part in fundamental  education by means of the fellowships which are a  special feature of CREFAL. A team of five prof-  essors and another of ten teachers are now under-  going a course of training. With the help of the  team of teachers, we have set up the National  Fundamental Education Centre at Cedros, which  began its work with an intensive course for training  a group of teachers from our own country and giving  instruction in the techniques of fundamental educa-  tion. When the course was finished, the Ministry  of Public Education posted the teachers at strategic  - 154 -     MEETINGS  points throughout the country; there are now five  fundamental education zones, in which these teach-  ers are working for the betterment of the rural  inhabitants.
(26) Honduras has not only benefited in this way  by the activities of Unesco, but it has also been  busily engaged, in agreement with Unesco, in  training a larger number of primary teachers, for  which purpose it has inaugurated a big scheme of  scholarships for the training of primary school  teachers. The scheme includes the selection and  training of candidates and even acts as an employ-  ment agency, offering them good opportunities, so  that they shall not later be tempted to leave the  profession.
(27) In addition, Honduras has been taking a great  interest in the training of its secondary school-  masters. Here, too, it has taken account of  Unesco directives and has launched an interesting  scholarship scheme for training secondary teachers  outside the country. It has also instituted a perm-  anent system of refresher courses for secondary  teachers by means of summer schools and exten-  sion courses on a national scale.
(28) Unesco's plans for the improvement of edu-  cation include other activities, such as the inter-  change of information and documents on various  aspects of education, and the organization of sem-  inars and the publishing of handbooks of value to  teachers. In this way it has striven to perfect the  teaching profession in all the Member States of  the Organization.
(29) It has been said in this Conference that the  National Commissions constitute an essential ele-  ment in giving effect to the work of Unesco. With  that we agree, and we only regret that the Naticnal  Commissions, being composed of people sometimes  heavily burdened with other official duties, do not  have sufficient time to devote themselves, body  and scul, to exercising the responsibility which  they hold conjointly with Unesco. It is to be hoped  that the Member States will in due course see to it  that the National Commissions are composed of  capable persons with time at their disposal to dedi-  cate themselves to the educational work of their  countries, and that the Member States will also  make sufficient funds available to the National Com-  missions for the promotion of national education  programmes.
(30) We believe it to be a fact that Unesco has  dotie important work in the world on behalf of  education, which was formerly looked down upon  and treated, perhaps, as the Cinderella of the  public services. Unesco has succeeded in inter-  esting governments in education, and not the gov-  ernments only, but the peoples, the community,  the public. It has awakened a new conscience in  the teaching profession, has made them aware of  their dignity as schoolrnasters, and has taught  them the significance, the value and the mission  of national education in the guidance of peoples ard  the destiny of nations. And it has taught the school  that its task is sornething beyond the simple rdle  of making the masses literate, hy bringing it to  realize that, if a school is really to be a school,  it must serve the interests of the community.
(31) I pray that Unesco will continue to work   PLENARY  tenaciously for the extension of its educational pro-  gramme and that in this splendid task the Member  States may offer it still greater co-operation as a  result of the present meeting of the General  Conference.
(32) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Span-  ish): I call upon the Head of the delegation of  Bolivia.
(33) Mr. SANGINEZ URIERTE (Bolivia) (Trans-  lation from the Spanish): Mr. President, Mr.  Director-General, ladies and gentlemen: The  Republic of Uruguay, the cradle of liberty, has  welcomed to its midst delegations from all over  the world, who, after travelling hundreds of miles,  are now met together to partake of the bread of the  spirit, namely, education, science and culture. It  would be difficult to imagine any other capital city  excelling Montevideo in offering us such a cordial  and fraternal atmosphere. On behalf of the Govern-  ment of Bolivia, therefore, ! wish to 2xpress our  appreciation to the Government, the people and the  press of this great country. pre-eminent among all  the nations of the world by 1is democratic tradition  and its love of freedom and justice.
(34) Bolivia, notwithstanding its 129 years of in-  dependence, has only recently given birth to a life  and autonomy of its own, since the Revolution of  April 1952 swept the National Revolutionary Move-  ment into power. Cast in an antiquated mould, our  culture and ediation were the toys of vested inter-  ests, the fortunate lot of certain privileged groups.  The popular revolution finally ousted the oppressors -  the big mining concerns and feudalism - and the  Government became dedicated solely to the service  of the people.
(35) Thus, in 1952, so far as educational matters  were concerned, the country was disorganized and  had no funds to cover the most urgent needs; and 1t  was a long time since the human element - the tea-  cher - had been chosen as for a high calling. The  entire edifice had to be started again from the found-  ations and, as a result of a supreme decree there  was set up a commission for the reform of  educat.on, whose report is now being studied by  the Government,
(36) Of all Latin American countries, Bolivia has  the highest percentage of iliiteracy: among adult  country dwellers it reaches 84%, r:presenting  about 865, 000 illiterates. Of the rural school age  population from 5 to 19 years of age, 63% do not  attend school, that is to say about 465,000 children  and adolescents. That is why enormous importance  has been attached to fundamental education.
(37) In the report of the Director -General and the  Executive Board of Unesco, mention is made of the  help received by Bolivia through the assistance of  two experts of the Experimental School at Miraflores  (La Paz), which has enabled the professional train-  ing of teachers to be improved anc broadened, and  made more practical. Through th’'s school pass  hundreds of teachers, trained in fundamental edu-  cation and with a genuinely practicai and pedagogic  outlook.
(38) Fundamental education is governed in our  country by geography and the his‘orical past, which  - 155 -     MEETINGS 11-10  is reflected in our traditions, our social, econo-  mic and political movements and in the soul and  individuality of the people; it must therefore  derive its inspiration and sustenance from these  sources and seek its own national, regional and  local ends.
(38) Its work is eminently social: it is the com-  plete education of the community, since its action  not only embraces all the components of the com-  munity - men and women, young and old, the home,  the economy, recreation, health, and the spread  of literacy, but also includes the aspirations and  desires of the community, its eagerness for poli-  tical, economic and social progress and for the  formation of a national consciousness.
(40) The Agrarian Reform which has been decreed  in Bolivia has incorporated about two million rural  inhabitants into the life of the nation by making  them proprietors, who produce and, by the same  token, consume. In addition, it has created in  them a greater interest in the education of their  children, with the result that the school population  has appreciably increased, thus raising the serious  problem of the shortage of teachers, premises,  furniture and educational equipment.
(41) The revolutionary movement has gone so  deep among the people that there has been an  enormous increase in the interest shown by the  working classes in instruction in the new book  learning. Their keenness is for professional and  technical instruction, for further education, and  more extensive specialized classes, The demand  for new establishments is surprising and contrasts  sharply with the shortage of funds available for  the fulfilment of this compelling obligation.
(42) May I therefore be allowed to urge that  Unesco's fundamental education project pay gr«at-  er attention to countries which, like Bolivia, have  a high percema,e of illiterates, both adult and  juvenile, and are thus obliged to give thei: instruc-  tion a practical trend, )
(43) At Sirs-el-Layyan (Egypt), in Thailand, and  in Africa - in the non-self-governing dependent  territories of Britain and France - fundamental  education is producing excellent results, as may  be deduced from the Director-General's report,  and it is also contributing to the solution of social  and economic problems.
(44) So sincerely progressive is the present gov-  ernment in an essentially popular and rural sense,  that the plan for combating illiteracy has had three  interesting effects. Decrees and other legislation  now stipulate that- (a) all those who aspire to a  university degree must teach at least ten persons  to read and write before they are granted the  desired diploma; (b) under the educational Reform  Act every person who has become literate must  similarly teach one other person to read and write,  and (c) everyone attending teachers' training  colleges and establishments must teach not less  than ten persons to read and write before being  officially awarded a diploma.
(45) It is worthy of notice that there is a five-year  plan for the systematic wiping out of illiteracy. Spe-  cial funds for this purpose have to be provided out  of the national budget, but still greater support will  be needed in view of the magnitude of the problem.   I-10
(46) In Bolivia, everything is overshadowed by one  important fact: up to 8 April 1852, education was  restricted to certain classes in a privileged econo-  mic position and certain ages only. All those who  were unabie 10 continue their secondary studies  were destined to swell the ranks of the destitute,  for lack of opportunity for further study; courses  in practical, technical, industrial, commercial,  and agricultural subjects, stock-breeding, etc.  were non-existent. Furthermore, the traditional  secondary school teaching was theoretical, bookish  and unimaginative: it provided only a feeble prep-  aration for the university - a university run on  academic and highly theoretical lines, standing  quite aloof from the national, social and economic  life of Bolivia. After the revolution secondary edu-  cation became much more diverse: there was an  increase in the number of vocational schools for  women and of industrial schools in various districts;  new sections were formed, dealing with stock-  breeding, horticulture and forestry, as well as  petroleum engineering; commercial colleges,  schools of accountancy and instruction centres for  Customs officials were opened. With a clear sense  of direction, publi: education forms a co-ordinated  ideal that is essentially social and democratic. It is  an education for all ages and classes, education  designed to increase the productivity and industri-  alization of the country. to improve its economic  diversity and train technicians and skilled workers  in all branches.
(47) The profound effect of the national revolution,  especially since the agrarian reform, is amply  proved by the nrcssure cf the rural population in  favour of schools, founding them at their own ex-  pence and building them with their own hands, in  rough and ready style it is true, but to such pur-  pose that in about 18 months some 3, 000 small  village schools have been constructed in this way.
(48) In Bolivia, just as in other countries, primary,  secondary, technical and university education is  absolutely free - a clear proof that, despite enor-  mous economic difficulties, the State is making  every effort to educate the people. Thirty per cent  of the nation's general budget is allocated to  education.
(49) An American from the United States said  recently that countries - he was referring to Latin  America - must begin by aiding themselves, by  working out their own salvation. This the Govern-  ment of Bolivia has been doing, but in view of the  incontrovertible facts reflected in the illiteracy  figures, it is to be hoped that Unesco will extend its  assistance programme to countries like mine by  affording them greater economic, educational and  cultural aid, by granting scholarships, by providing  them with better techniques for rural education,  and by trying to extend its future action to the great  masses of the people who in many places are totally  unaware of Unesco's existence. A million Bolivian  illiterates, ripe for education, are awaiting the help  of Unesco.
(50) I am grateful to the Director-General for the  interest he has shown in Bolivian affairs and I hope  that next time he visits my country he will obtain  complete first-hand knowledge of our educational  difficulties, to our subsequent advantage in finding  PLENARY     - 156 -  MEETINGS  a better and juster solution of the grave problem  with which we are faced.
(51) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Span-  ish): 1 call upon the delegate of Nicaragua.
(52) Mr. SACASA (Nicaragua) (Translation from  the Spanish): Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen:  Nicaragua is a small country in Central America,  which lives and works and strives to achieve its  ambitions in the very heart of this great continent  of liberty and hope. Today it pays warm tribute  to the native land of Artigas, and is happy to ack-  nowledge publicly the manner in which the Republic  of Uruguay has once again given proof of its demo-  cratic traditions by inviting Unesco to hold the  eighth session of its General Conference in this  city of Montevideo, that blossoms like a garden on  the banks of the River Plate, burial place of heroes  and nursery of brilliant minds. And here we meet  within the walls of this magnificent Parliament  building, an assembly of governments and peoples,  uniting their thoughts and efforts to bring about a  future of universal peace and brotherhood through  the strong and effective development of education,  science and culture.
(53) With unshakable faith, the Government pre-  sided over by General Anastasio Somoza has  ushered in a new era of important achievements in  the field of education by giving top priority to the  development of the primary schools, where instruc-  tion is compulsory and free. Its main purpose is  to raise the educational standards of the great mass  of our rural inhabitants. It also fosters the national  campaign against illiteracy, and gives general  application to the principles and practices of  modern pedagogics, which have reached their  highest expression in Unesco's scheme of funda-  mental education.
(54) With a population of one million three hundred  thousand inhabitants, my country is beginning to  consolidate its economy under the protection of a  stable peace: it is mechanizing its agriculture and  taking the first steps to organize its youthful in-  dustries. For the time being, however, it cannot  have enough school centres to enable it to develop  its general culture, nor does it possess an ade-  quate number of books, reviews and periodicals  from our own presses. On the other hand, we are  rightly proud to announce before this assembly of  Unesco that the Nicaraguan State schools are ma-  king every effort to form the minds of our citizens  and give them a strength and clarity of thought  which influence the spirit, shaping, purifying and  improving it, and imbuing it with devotion for the  highest ideals; preparing it also for the exercise  of freedom and citizenship, of respect for different  or antagonistic ideologies and for its own, whether  in the political, social, philosophical, religious or  cultural fields. At the same time we are trying  to create a firm national consciousness, with no  tendency to narrow-mindedness, but rather with a  fullness of judgment and goodwill that will lead the  Nicaraguan to understand the American, the Eurc-  pean, the African, the Asiatic and the Oceanian,  and to love them as himself, and will make him a  citizen of the world, the brother of all mankind,   PLENARY  without discrimination of colour, race cr tongue.
(55) The Nicaraguan delegation, in taking its seat  in this great assembly, does so in the loftiest spirit  of co-operation and in the desire to add its modest  contribution to the noble labours of Unesco, whose  aims are proof that it intends to consolidate and  render more fruitful the progressive movement  which is now influencing intellectual and spiritual  life in Nicaragua. My delegation also hopes that  Unesco's future programme will contain duly defined  and concrete measures of assistance to the less  developed, less wealthy and less powerful countries,  thus giving the smaller nations an acceptable and  generous message of courage.
(56) In the three years that have elapsed since  Nicaragua joined Unesco, the country has been able  to meet its moral and financial commitments and  has succeeded in working, within the limits of its  capacity, to bring about real national prosperity  and harmony among the nations, in the desire that  these may be reflected in the material well-being  and happiness of man, in his dual aspect as an indi-  vidual and a member of society. We are at all times  ready to co-operate in any action which consists not  merely of high sounding proposals, but of their  practical realization, in conformity with the ambi-  tions and guiding principles of the Nicaraguan  motherland, which are in harmony with the ideals of  this honourable Organization of the United Nations.
(57) The Unesco National Commission in Nicaragua,  with the staunch support of the Ministry of Education,  has applied itself to studying the programmes and  activities of the Organization, in order to plan its  work in accordance with the directives of Unesco  and with the opportunities they offer in relation to  the needs of our own nation, especially in the fields  of education and technical assistance. With regard  to the latter point, I am happy to acknowledge the  benefits conferred on my country by the Regional  Fundamental Education Centre for Latin America  (CREFAL), which is supported by Unesco, the Org-  anization of American States (OAS) and the Govern-  ment of Mexico, and which has been instrumental in  securing us 15 fellowships, with the result that,  after intensive training for two years, ten of our  schoolmasters have already returned to Nicaragua  and have begun, with conspicuous success, their  difficult work of popular education and the training  of other teachers. At the same time I have pleasure  in stating that our Government and Unesco last  October signed an agreement on technical assistance,  with the object of making available to my country  the services of two experts, one in urban education  and the other in rural and fundamental education.  We shall later urge that the mission be completed  by the addition of other experts to deal respectively  with school administration and the training of  secondary teachers.
(58) 1 also consider this the proper place to  state that the Nicaraguan delegation, or rather  our Government, firmly supported the Govern-  ment of its sister republic of Honduras in  sponsoring the project to celebrate an annual  Culture Week, an idea originally put forward  by the scientific and literary group set up by  the Union of Latin American Universities.
(59) Before concluding I should like to say that my  - 157 -     MEETINGF 11-10  delegation warmly joins in the tribute of appreci-  ation and gratitude paid to the efficient work of  Dr. Luther H. Evans, Director-General of Unesco -  a work which is demonstrated in the concise and  clear report he has presented.
(60) And, finally, allow me on this solemn oc-  casion to lift up my voice in prayer to the God of  the nations, that Unesco may daily grow in wis-  dom and stature; that its ideals may penetrate  ever more deeply into the conscience of the peoples  and guide and regulate the counsels of governments;  that over the whole wide face of the earth the ban-  ner of Unesco may fly triumphant; and that under  every sky, men and nations may forget their  quarrels in growing tolerance and brotherhood,  and, devoting themselves solely to the arts of  progress and culture, may raise their voices in  hymns of peace, accomplishing in their minds and  hearts the manifest destiny of humanity, whose  birthright it is to live dignified lives in freedom  from fear and want.  REPLY BY THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL
(61) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Span-  ish): 1 call on the Director-General.
(62) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL: Mr. President,  honourable delegates, I do not feel that I have been  under heavy fire from the comments you have made.  I have taken note of points where you have criticized  or raised questions but, before I comment on them,
1 wish to say how deeply gratified my colleagues of  the Secretariat and I are at the unanimous expres-  sions of confidence in the principles of Unesco and  of faith in the future of the Organization, made by  delegates in their speeches of the last few days.  This creates for all of us, Secretariat and delegates  alike, a fine atmosphere in which to do the work of  this Conference. This reaffirmation of faith, it  seems to me, is very important for all of us and  it is also very important for the peoples of all the  Member States.
(63) I wish to thank delegates for the kind remarks  they have made about the report and, in general,  about the policies which the Secretariat has followed  and the actions it has taken in implementation of the  current programme and in the drafting of the new  one. 1 wish to express my personal appreciation  to those delegates who mentioned that I have visited  their respective countries in the past two years,  and 1 wish to explain to those delegates who have  expressed regret that I have not visited them, that  I hope to do so in the near future. It has been ira-  possible for me to visit all countries. I assure  you that the principal reason has been the harsh-  ness of the time schedule and the fact that I have  tried to follow a pattern of geographical distribu-  tion. I not only have to secure a geographical dis-  tribution of the Secretariat, but also a geographical  distribution of the Director-General! I have already  expressed the pleasure I had in taking members of  the Executive Board, including the Chairman, with  me on some of these visits and I should like to  thank those of you who have mentioned the visits of  the Board members.
(64) It is a matter of very great pleasure to my  colleagues and myself that a number of delegates  have spoken in favourable terms of the efforts  which they have noted on the part of the Secretariat  to make the application of the programme and also  the development of the new programme more genu-  inelv responsive to the needs of Member States, as  Member States themselves understand those needs.
1 said in introducing the report that that has been  our main objective and I would like to point out, in  answer to remarks by one or two delegates, that  responding to the needs of Member States does not  necessarily mean responding only to economic  desires, responding only to material requirements.  Many of these efforts are efforts to respond to  spiritual needs, to things of the mind, to things of  the heart. Let us not, therefore, make a termino-  logical error, an error of conception, and identify  responsiveness to Member States' needs and re-  quests with the granting of economic or purely  material aid.
(65) We not only, as some delegates have noted,  try to be responsive to the requirements of Member  States, but we have also tried to be responsive t>  the requirements of the United Nations and the  Specialized Agencies, the Organization of American  States, the Council of Europe and other agencies and  groups. I am glad that a number of delegates men-  tioned this fact, because it is important for these  other organizations to know that we not only have  tried to be co-operative, but that the Conference  recognizes that they have responded and have co-  operated with us.
(66) I am glad that some speakers pointed out that,  when they commented on the report of the Director-  General, they were commenting on the work of an  organization and not a person, and that the work  that is reported here is the work of a staff of zealous  people, many of them with highly specialized talents,  wko have all worked as a team to carry out the  wishes of the General Conference. 1 hope when you  use the term Director-General you will have in mind  that you are talking about 800 persons who work in  the Secretariat in Paris, as well as a nuraber who  work in the field. The keynote of our efforts to  work as a homogeneous group in the Secretariat is  not collegiate confusion of responsibility but rather  strong and smooth team work with a great deal of  initiative and independence of thought on the part of  - all members of the team, and a great deal of har-  mony in carrying out a policy or a directive once  it is agreed upon.  {67) Some delegates have referred to certain of our  shortcomings. One delegate referred to lapses in  administration, others have said that sometimes  we seem still to be too bureaucratic minded, and  adopt too much an attitude of omniscience. The  Secretariat is striving not to give any basis for a  belief that it regards itself as high and mighty or  that it regards Member States as the public knocking  on its doors. We do, of course, have a burden of  work which we are not always able to transact as  rapidly and as well as we would wish. Also, we  may have been guilty on occasions of errors of  judgment or of some other kind of failure in admini-  stration, but it is our belief that these mistakes are  decreasing and, as we find the causes of them, we  - 158 -     MEETINGS  are genuinely trying to improve our administrative  organization, our administrative procedures and  the spir‘t in whic we operate the machinery. The  best way to clear up these matters is to be told  about then so that we can work on them in the  friendliest spirit of co-operation.
(68) I! appreciate the fact that a mber of dele-  gates have commended the Exec .ve Board. The  Executive Board, with which I ha re been very well  acquainted either as a member oj as Director-  General since 1949, has, in my opinion, played a  more significant rdle in the affairs of Unesco in  the past year than at any time since I! have been  closely acquainted with it, It took the courageous  decision at about the time of my election, to take  a good look at the state of Unesco's programme,  Unesco's organization, Unesco's accomplishments  and to try and think out some general conclusions  as to what ought to be done about certain of the  weaknesses and failures of the Organization. The  results of that effort have already been reported  to you, and certain of these results will be before  you in your consideration of the programme and  the budget. I merely wish to say at this time that  I concur with the Board in its efforts and in its  objective and that ! have co-operated with it as  closely as possible. I took the liberty of asking  the Board to assume a strong leadership rôle in  the work of the Organization - that is, as the rep-  resentative of the Conference, to give me guidance  on some of the larger decisions that have to be  made as to the directions the Organizaticn should  follow in the future, I think this has been highly  beneficial to the Organization, and I hope in the  future to be able to work with the Board in the  closest kind of co-operation a.1d I hope that it will  give leadership to the future sessions of the General  Conference, as well as guidance to me in interpret-  ing the will of the past Conferènce. To have this  organ, half-way between the D'irector-General and  the Conference, is, in my opinion, one of the great  sources of strength of the Organization.
(69) Much was said by delegates in welcome to the  new Member States, and I was pleased to hear that  welcome. It was to me a sort of ex post facto  authorization of what my colleagues and I had  already done to help in every way possible to in-  tegrate the new Member States in the work of the  Organization. We have done everything we could  to give all legitimate aid to the new Member States,  in learning about our programme, in learning about  our procedures, which to a new Member State are  very complicated, and 1 am very glad that the Con-  ference has carried out the same policy which we  felt sure in advance it would wish us to carry out.
(70) Some reference has been made to the relation-  ship between the Director-General's report (inclu-  ding the Executive Board's report) and the reports  of Member States. The Chairman of the Board  himself pointed out that perhaps we have not as yet  developed the best feasible relationship between  them. 1 do not have anything to suggest on this  point except that the Secretariat is ready to discuss  this problem with appropriate organs of the Con-  ference, with a possibility of developing a closer  internal and organic relationship between these  major documents. I feel certain that eventually the   PLENARY  Secretariat's report ought to include more inform-  ation about what is going on in Member States, in  direct execution of Unesco projects and programmes,  but one has to move cautiously, for obviously whole  educational programmes of Member States are in  some cases influenced by Unesco's advice, and one  cannot include the progress of the whole educational  programme of a country in a Unesco report of its  own activity. But perhaps there is something more  we could do to integrate into the account of our own  activities, in terms of the reporting itself, the acti-  vities of Member States. The Secretariat is very  glad to explore this possibility with you.
(71) It has been a pleasure to us to have some of  the information given in Member States' reports  supplemented by the reports delegates have made at  these meetings, and we are also glad that many of  the reports of what has been happening in Member  States have contained references to what Unesco has  contributed. 1 would observe to delegates who have  some doubt about the technical aid, special project  trend in the new programme and budget proposals,  that most of the references of Member States to  Unesco activities which have given them assistance  in their own educational, scientific and cultural pro-  grammes, have beer to technical assistance projects;  not all of them, by any means, but most of the pro-  jects mentioned, those of which delegations have  shown themselves most conscious, have been of the  technical aid type. 1 do not mean that technical aid  ought to encompass our entire programme, but I do  mean to bring a fact to your notice which I think is  significant for your later discussion of the new draft  programme and budget.
(72) A number of speakers mentioned the failure of  the Secretariat to achieve an adequate geographical  distribution in the staff and there were suggestions  as to what we should do about language qualifications.
1 am very sympathetic to this attitude and to these  suggestions and will study the matter seriously. 1  wish to report, in relation to the present situation,  that we have made real efforts in the past two years  to increase the representation of certain countries  which are either not represented at all or are not  +dequately represented on the staff. We have taken  steps forward, and steps backward, for some of our  ;Jood people from countries insufficiently represented  have been taken back from us by their governments,  and we have had to start all over again, We applaud  governments' taking such persons back in some  cases, because frequently the return of one of our  employees to his own country is one of the best ways  of developing effective liaison between that country  and Unesco, and also one of the best ways for Unesco  to assist the country.
(73) This leads me to the suggestion that the Turkish  delegate made, which he and I talked over when I  was in Turkey recently, that perhaps we ought to  have posts in the Secretariat where we bring in  persons for two or three years, with a definite  understanding that at the end of that term they will  go back to their old posts or to other posts in their  government. I also call your attention to the fact  that our possibilities of redressing maldistribution  on a geographical basis are very limited at the  present time, and there are certain proposals  before you, to be considered later on, which are  - 159 -     MEETINGS 11-10  calculated to assist in the solution of this problem,
(74) A great deal has been said in your comments  about our failure to do all we should do to encourage  National Commissions, and, beyond them to get  our message across to the people. I will nat speak  about either of these things at (his time, except to  say that, as regards both, we are far from doing a  satisfactory job, in the opinion of the Secretariat,  but, also as regards both, we definitely need some  clarification from you as to exactly what our  programme should be. We will try to pose those  problems in sharper outline when we discuss the  relevant chapters in the proposed programme,
(75) It has been a great pleasure to me to have so  many delegates mention the centres of fundamental  education au Patzcuaro and Sirs-el-Layyan, Since  the report before you was written, I have visited  both of these centres, Sirs-el-Layyan in September,  and Patzcuaro in October. I had previously visited  Patzcuaro, but this was my first visit to Sirs-el-  Layyan, 1 can tell you quite candidly that I agree  with the delegates who mentioned these centres,  that they are, as far as we can tell at this early  stage, doing a really successful job.
(76) Mention has also been made of our work for  the Arab refugees from Palestine and in Korea.  I think we ought to acknowledge, perhaps publicly  on some occasion, that, as regards both of those  programmes, Unesco is just a tiny tail wagging a  great big dog. We are with our very few experts,  at relatively small cost, helping in the expenditure  cf enormous sums of money in the countries con-  cerned, sums that come from other sources. In  the case of the Arab refugees, it 1s the United  Nations Relief and Works Agency that is in charge  ard it is spending millions of dollars each year on  the education cf the children, Unesco is providing  ihe educational leaders for that programme and, if  we are able to do something successful and useful,  it is because of the intelligent and devoted manage-  ment by the people who are in charge of UNRWA,  In Korea it is the United Nations Korean Rehabilita-  tion Agency which is really doing the job, and  Unesco 1s merely giving expert advice. I hope that  we may find during the discussions in the Pro-  gramme Commission that we can do more than we  have proposed in regard to the Arab refugees' pro-  gramme, and I would like also to say that we stand  ready to do more than we have been called upon so  far to do in Korea. Our relations with those those  agencies are good, and ! look confidently for in-  creased success in our work in those two import-  ant fields.
(77) The Swiss delegate said that we ought to do  more in our reports to tell Member States where  they were falling short in certain fields of work,  such as the ratification of Unesco conventions, 1  would like to discuss later exactly how far we should  go in this regard, for we might easily raise contro-  versial issues and create delicate situations with  Member States if we did too much. To be sure of  our ground in making any such comments, we  should have to be in possession of a lot more in-  formation than we now have in most of these cases.  Perhaps also our report ought not to emphasize  anyone's failures, except the failures of the Sec-  retariat, In relations with Member States, we   I-11 PLENARY  ought to point to the positive side of achievement. Of  course, in talking about our positive achievements  we are sometimes referring to successes scored  against barriers that Member States have erected;  and in that case we are giving factual statements,
(78) One or two reference: were made to publica-  tions and, as at every General Conference, begin-  ning with the second one, Unesco publications have  been criticized, I would like to say that, in my  opinion, great strides have been made, particularly  in the past two years, in improving the mechanisms  by which we review our publications before they are  printed in order to make sure that we do not issue  publications that are not of high quality, or that, for  one reason or another, do not need to be published.  I believe, if you were to make a critica! examination  of our publications of the past year or so, that you  would find very few useless or low quality publica-  tions. We have established very good machinery for  checking our manuscripts before publication, and we  have also invited Member States to co-operate with  us in having specialists in various fields review  publications and give us a critical evaluation of them.  These critical evaluations are very helpfut to us in  two ways, and I would appeal to Member States to  co-operate with us in this matter. They give us an  outside judgment of our work, a judgment by the  best intellectuals of the world in the fields 1n which  the respective publications fall. Secondly, when    MEETINGS  these learned persons find that a publication is good,  their good evaluation of it spreads to other intellect-  uals in the field and the publication selis a lot better  and has a lot more influence.
(79) Despite my statement the other day, some de-  legates expressed concern at th~ way I was treating  the staff of Unesco. I do not want tu go into that  again but I can genuinely affirm that 1 do not believe,  since I have been Director-General, that I have ever  interfered with anyone's freedom of conscience or  have in any other way violated, or even threatened,  any rights which a member of the staff as an inter-  national civil servant ought to have.
(80) Mr. President and delegates, I am going to  reply in the Programme Commission to many com-  ments that were made here on programme matters  and I hope that you will not feel offended if I have not  addressed myself to them here. I am taking your  comments on the programme seriously and shall  reply to them on anothe ‘ occasion,
(81) In concluding, may I observe how pleased I am  that some of the delegaiv> made laudatory references  to Dr. Torres Bodet, my eminent predecessor, and  to Dr. Tay'or, who he:d the fort so well in the six  months between Dr. Torres Bodet's term and my  own,  The meeting rose at 5.05 p.m.  ELEVENTH PLENARY MEETING
22 November 1954 at 3.30 p.m.  President: Mr. ZAVALA MUNIZ (Uruguay)  CONTENTS  Communications by the President . . .. ........... 160  Statement by the observer for Paraguay, . . . ........ 161  Second Report of the Credentials Committee . . .....,.. 162  Report of the Administrative Commission on Item 9.3.1 of the  revised agenda (document 8C/JUR/2) and discussion there-  on: Speeches by the delegates of Panama, France, Switzer-  land, Haiti, Italy, German Federal Republic, Denmark, Un-  ited States of America, Lebanon, Uruguay, Colombia, Bel-  glum, Yugoslavia, Japan, Laos, Egypt and the Unitea King-  dom . ...........  COMMUNICATIONS BY THE PRESIDENT
(1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  Ladies and gentlemen, the General Committee  - 160 -  ev 0 1 8 0 6 0 61 + 0 0 + +. . 162  regrets to announce the death of a member of the  Belgian delegation, Professor de Thibault. In view  of this sad news, and as a token of the grief which  the General Conference must surely feel - as it is