GENERAL  for an interval of two or three hours at least between  the meetings of the Nominations Committee and the  plenary meeting, us the material for the latter would  have to be got ready.
(57) This proporal was approved,
(88) The CHAIRMAN, summing up the proposals  made by members of the Committee, said that the  proposal was to have a first meeting of the Nomina-  tlons Committee during the afternoon of 6 December,  a second meeting of the Committee in the morning of
7 December and the plenary meeting to deal with the    CONMITTEE UI-6  question in the afternoon of the same day. Did the  General Committee approve that arrangement ?
(59) Mr. SHARIF agreed on the understanding that  the Nominations Committee would make its nomina<  tions on the same day as the election.
(60) The CHAIRMAN announced that the General  Comm ittea would meet again un Wednesday, 24  November, at 9 a.m.  The meeting rose at 10. 25 a.m,  SIXTH MEETING
24 November 1954 at 9 a.m.  Chairman: Mr. SHARIF (Paxistan)  PROGRESS OF WORK
(1) Mr. MAHEU reminded the meeting of the pro-  cedure decided upon. The Programme and Budget  Commission was to discuss that morning the  provisional assessment level for 1955 and 1956 and  to draw up recommendations in the light of those  submitted by the Administrative Commission. Those  two series of recommendations were to have been pre-  sented to the plenary Conference for final decision  on the morning of 25 November, but certain delega-  tions had spoken to the Secretariat of their misgivings  they feared that members of the Programme and  Budget Commission, not knowing what had been  recommended by the Administrative Commission,  would stert discussing matters on which they were  not qualified to speak. For those reasons, the  Secretariat proposed the following changes in pro-  cedure,
(3) That morning a short plenary meeting would be  held to take a final decision on the recommendations  of the Administrative Commission concerning: (1)  arrears of contributions and voting powers of the  countries concerned; (2) scale of contributions; (3)  financing of the budget,
(3) Those decisions would then be communicated to  the Programme and Budget Commission that after-  noon; the Commission would be free to make any  recomm endations it wished on the provisional budget  total, and they would be submitted to the plenary  meeting for approval on the morning of 25 November.
(4) While agreeing with the recommendations of the  Secretariat, Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS proposed that,  if possible, there should be a meeting of the plenary  Conference that evening at 6 p. m. to fix the provi-  sional budget total, on the recommendation of the  Programme and Budget Commission. If that could    be done, the Programme and Budget Commission  would be able to continue its work without interruption  the following morning.  {5) Mr. MAHEU saw no objection to the proposal,  provided that the Programme and Budget Commission  were able to complete its discussion by 6 p.m,
(6) The procedure proposed by the Secretariat, as  amended by the delegate of the United Kingdom, was  approved.
(7) The CHAIRMAN called upon the Chairman of the  Programme and Budget Commission to report on the  Commission's work.
(8) Mr. BOURGEOIS said that on the previous evening  the Programme and Budget Commission had com-  pleted its discussion of the chapter on technical  assistance and had unanimously adopted the resolutions  contained in document 8C/5, Annex VIII, with a few  amendments of form rather than substance.
(9) Mr. BEEBY reported that the Administrative  Commission had deal with the question of the voting  rights of certain countries and would be ready to  report thereon to the plenary meeting that morning.  Further, its recommendations on the sale of contri-  butions and methods of financing the budzet were to be  found in s document before the Committee.
(10) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES announced that the Advi-  sory Committee's consideration of the Final Report of  the Committee of Experts on Education for International  Understanding and Co-operation was well advanced, and  that it was hoped to complete that item during the morning.  - 251 -
(11) Mr. MAHEU indicated the relative urgency of  the working parties’ business:
(1) Working Party on Decentralization;
(2) Working Party on International Regulations;
(8) Working Party on the Structure of the Depart-  ment of Mass Communication.
(12) Mr. BOURGEOIS reminded the meeting that it  had been decided, on the proposal af the United States  delegate, to ask delegations to state in writing the  points on which they wished to speak. As proposals  had been received on practically all points in the first  three chapters of the proposed programme, Mr.  Bourgeois wondered whether it was any use adhering  to that system and suggested dropping it for the fol-  lowing programme chapters, as it involved extra  work for the Secretariat.
(13) The CHAIRMAN remarked that, if the General  Committee agreed, the Programme and Budget Com-  mission would have to be asked to reverse its  procedure.
(14) Mr. KOTSCHNIG asked how many comments  there were and whether it would be possible for the  Secretariat to produce a consolidated document.
(15) Mr. CHEVALIER said that the system did not  entail a great deal of work for the Secretariat; it  meant preparing a document of some 10 pages, in  which the replies of 22 delegations would be set out  in the order of the chapters of the proposed pro-  gramme. It was therefore nui an impossible task.
(16) Mr. MAHEU explained that the document would  be only a synopsis and would not include the actual  text of the proposals.
(17) Mr. CHEVALIER added that hardly any of the  proposals submitted were accompanied by a state-  ment of reasons and in only very few cases had any  priority rating been requested.
(18) Mr. MAHEU inferred that the document would  really amount to a list of the delegations which had  submitted proposals, set out under each item in the  programme.
(19) Mr. KABIR was against altering the procedure  adopted and especially against setting a time-limit  for the submission of such comments, as he feared  that that would encourage delegations which might  not otherwise have done soto submit further comments.
(20) Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS seconded the delegate  of India, but hoped that, ir communicating the  material to the Programme and Budget Commission,  it would be made clear that the procedure was not  considered useful; in that manner, the Commission  might be persuaded to discontinue it.
(21) Mr. BEEBY was against the continuation of the  system.
(22) Mr. BOURGEOIS did not himself expect there  would be any fewer speakers for the last chapters of  the programme, but he was in favour of abiding by    COMMITTEE  that procedure. It might induce delegates to think  over what they would say at the meeting.
(23) Seconding the delegates of India and the United  Kingdom, Mr. KOTSCHNIG expressed the opinion that  the comments nevertheless had a certain value, as  they enabled delegations to know what other delegations  thought about various points, and the necessity fo-  five-minute breaks for consultation during meetings  might thus be avoided. He therefore ~econded the  proposal to continue the system.
(24) It was agreed not to alter the procedure.
(25) Referring to the calendar of work, Mr. GARDNER  DAVIES requested that the Advisory Committee and  the Headquarters Committee should not meet 3imul-  taneously on Thursday afternoon (25 November), since  it would make his own position very difficult as Chair-  man of the Advisory Committee and Ra, porteur of the  Headquarters Committee.
(26) It was agreed that the Advisory Committee on  Programme and Budget should not meet at that time,  but that instead there should be a meeting of the  Working Party on Mass Communication.  MISCELLANEOUS DRAFT RESOLUTIONS (8C/DR/74 to 83)
(27) Mr. MAHEU said that a number of draft resolu-  tions had been submitted by the Italian delegation.  Preliminary perusal by the Secretariat showed that  some of them had budgetary implications and could  not therefore be considered under Rule 78 of the Rules  of Procedure. However, if the Italian delegetion  agreed, those proposals could be considered as the  Italian delegation's indication of the items in the pro-  gramme on which it wished to speak.
(28) Mr. BADINI CONFALONIERI accepted that inter-  pretation. Those proposals were merely intended to  draw attention to the points which the Italiandelegation  wanted discussed. It would, if need be, withdraw any  proposals with budgetary implications.
(28) Mr. KOTSCHNIG asked for an explanation of the  procedure to be followed in discussing the provisional  budget total. He assumed that the discussion would  start with a presentation by the Director-General or  the Chairman of the Executive Board of the higher  budget level proposals.
(30) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL thought that the pro-  cedure suggested would be satisfactory. The Chairman  of the Executive Board might speak first, followed by  himself; thereafter, the consideratiou of motions  from delegations would be in order, Motions farthest  from the original proposal by the Chairman of the  Board and the Director-General would, in accordance  with the Rules of Procedure, have to be put to the vote  first.
(31) The above procedure was approved,
(32) Mr. BERNAL JIMENEZ wished to know whether  the decision about the budget total was to be taken  - 252 -   GENERAL  before or after the discussion of all the chapters of  the programme. He wanted that point cleared up.
(33) The DIRECTOR-GENEF.AL explained that, in  accordance with the agenda of the General Conference  the decision on the assessment level and the provi-  sional budget total had to be taken before the  Programme and Budget Commission discussed the  various chapters of the budget. The order of business  would thus be as follows; (1) the General Conference  in plenary session would meet that morning to con-  sider the “eport of the Administrative Commission  on arrears of contributions and voting rights of  certain countries, the scale of contributions and  methods of financing the budget; (2) on the basis of  the plenary Conference's discussions, the Programme    COMMITTEE 1-7  and Budget Commission would meet as soon as  possible to discuss the provisional budget total; that  meeting would start with the presentation by the  Chairman of the Board and the Director-General of  the higher budget proposals; the Commission would  then report back to the plenary Conference, if pos-  sible by 6 p. m., so that the latter could fix the  provisional budget total. The next morning, the  Programme and Budget Commission would be able to  start considering Part II of the budget. It would still  be free to propose a change in the budget total at a  later stage, if it so desired.  The meeting rose at 9.55 a.m.  SEVENTH MEETING
26 November 1954 at 9.15 a.m.  Chairman: Mr. ZAVALA MUNI Z (Uruguay)  PROGRESS OF WORK OF THE GENERAL CONFERENCE
(1) The CHAIRMAN asked members of the General  Committee if they had any reports to submit. He  called upon the Chairman of the Programme and  Budget Commission.
(2) Mr. BOURGEOIS said that the Programme and  Budget Commission had begun its consideration of  the chapter on Education and had reached paragraph
159 under the heading of Education and Child Develop-  ment. It would continue its discussion and would  complete the Education chapter, either at the end of  the afternoon meeting or more probably at the follow-  ing morning's meeting.
(3) Few alterations had been made in the points  alreadr discussed. The main change was the can-  cellatioi: of the appropriations provided under  paragraph 146 for the International Educational  Development Fund.
(4) The CHAIRMAN submitted the report of the  Chairman of the Programme and Budget Commission  for discussion. As there were no comments, he  declared it approved.
(5) Mr. COWELL pointed out that, as a consequence  of the decision taken on the budget ceiling, there  would have to be slight adjustments to the budget and  asked what procedure was envisaged for the discus-  sions on the budget in the Programme Commission.
(6) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that he had dis-  cussed the matter with the Chairman of the  Programme and Budget Commission and a procedure    had been agreed which seemed to deal with the matter  in a fair and orderly way. The Chairman of the  Programme Commission would inform the Commis-  sion from time to time of the position with regard to  budget cuts. At the end of each chapter, the situation  concerning cuts and increases would be summarized  and the Director-General be asked if he had any pro-  posals to make before the chapter was finally approved  Each chapter would be subject to reconsideration  before final approval was given to the Programme and  Budget as a whole.
(7) Mr. BOURGEOIS agreed to the remarks raade by  the Director-General.
(8) The CHAIRMAN asked the delegate of the United  Kingdom if he wished to recommend the adoption of  the procedure outlined by the Director-General. The  delegate of the United Kingdom agreed with that pro-  cedure. The Chairman then called on the Chairman  of the Administrative Commission.
(9) Mr. BEEBY said that the Administrative Commis-  sion was well advanced. Its work on Official and  External Relations had been completed, the work on  legal questions had been completed and the Commis-  sion was waiting for the draft amendments to be  forwarded to it by the Legal Committee. All questions  of finance had been settled except the currency of  contributions, which question was being discussed by  the Contributions Committee. With regard to head-  quarters matters, the Commission would have to  await the recommendation of the Headquar:ers