IV-34 PROGRAMME AND
(63) Mr. Maheu added that the Secretariat had noted  all the suggestions and comments made during the  discussions, and would certainly strive to strengthen  the existing bonds between Unesco and the teaching  profession, as suggestad by the New Zealand  delegate. It would also bear in mind the comments  of the Swedish and French dele ates.
(64) Mr. Maheu agreed with the Egyptian delegate  that the document did not give a final definition of  the rôle and future of Unesco; it marked a stage on  a very long journey. Like all living things, Unesco  was continually developing. But the document had  the virtue of freeing Unesco from the tendency to  conservatism and of opening up new paths for the  Organization to follow.
(65) In conclusion, Mr. Maheu endorsed all the  comments made about the part played by the  Executive Board and the Advisory Committee, and  emphasized that the Director-General attached great  importance to the draft resolution, which was, in hic  eyes, the starting point for the Organization's future  activities.
(66) The CHAIRMAN did not think that the Commis-  sion could act on the proposals, made by the Brazilian  BUDGET     COMMISSION  delegation in document BC/DR/86, for the  amendment of the report presented by the  Executive Board (document 8C/PRG/13). He  proposed, however, that the Brazilian  delegat.on's comments be noted.
(67) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  pointed out that the main points in the Brazilian  delegation's proposals had beer. included in the draft  resolution in document 8C/BUD/2 Add, 1.
(68) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Chairman of the  Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget) said  that draft resolution 8C/DR/86 had been prepared  after discussion in the Advisory Committee, and he  understood that the Brazilian delegate was satisfied  with the form in which it appeared,
(69) There being no seconder, the CHAIRMAN said  that note would be taken of the resolution,
(70) The resolution contained in document 8C/BUD/2  Add. 1 was put to the vote and adopted unanimously.  The meeting rose at 5. 20 p.m.  THIRTY-FOURTH MEETING
9 December 1954 at 10 a.m.  Chairman: M. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland)
(1) As there was no quorum, the CHAIRMAN decided  to adjourn the meeting for ten minutes, in accordance  with Rule 69 of the Rules of Procedure of the General  Conference.
(2) Although there was still no quorum when the  meeting resumed, the CHAIRMAN proposed that the  meeting continue,
(4) The CHAIRMAN asked Mr. Gardner Davies,  Chairman of the Advisory Committee on Programme  and Budget to submit the draft appropriation resolution  for 1955-56.
(3) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Chairman of the  Advisory Committee on Programme and budget)  observed that document sc/ BUD/6 rev, 2 setoutthe  work of the Advisory Committee in digestible form,
(6) He pointed out that, in the English text of the  document, the figure for the total appropriation in  Part I of Annex I should read $847, 861,  {7) Mr. TOROCHESHNIKOV (Union of Soviet    Socialist Republics) announced the intention of his  delegation to vote against the à propriation for
1955-56, The reason was to be found in the Soviet  delegation's objection, already expressed, to the  adoption of a budget at such a high level.
(8) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) shared the view  of the Soviet delegate onthe budget total but expressed  his intention of voting for the proposed appropriation The  General Conference had, by a majority decision, ac-  cepted the budget level and it was now necessary onlyto  adopt the form which the appropriation was to take.
(9) The CHAIRMAN observedthatthe decision  concerning the budget total was a matter for the  General Conference, not the Commission.
(10) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) thought  the Un.tedKingdom delegates observation was correct
(11) His impression was thatthe Commission had  embarked on its work with the understanding that, on  the explicit instructions of the Conference, 1t was to  keep to a given budget ceiling. To challenge the ceil-  ing fixed was therefore contrary to those instructions
(12) Mr. Maheu asked the delegate of the  USSR to withdraw his statement and to put  forward his observations at a plenary  meeung,  - 500 -   PROGRAMME AND
(13) Mr. TOROCHESHNIKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) explained that he had wished to make clear  the position of his delegation with regard to the figure  adopted for the budget ceiling; his statement stood.
(14) The CHAIRMAN asked the Commission to vote  on the appropriation resolution,
(15) Approved, with 6 votes against and 1 abstention,  COMPOSITION AND TERMS OF REFERENCE OF THE ADVISORY  COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET
(16) Mr, GARDNER DAVIES (Chairman of the  Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget) said  that, whenthe question of the advisability of setting up  an Advisory Committee for the ninth session of the  General Conference had been discussed inthe Advisory  Committee views had been divided because of the  governmental structure of the new Executive Board.  The Committee had agreed however, that it was im-  possible to know at the present stage what changes  would arise as a result of that change in structure and  in order to make certainthat it would be possible to  have an Advisory Committee if necessary, had recom-  mended that sucha Committee should be setup by the  General Conference and that it shouldbe left to the  discretion of the Executive Board whether and when to  convene it.
(17) The Advisory Committee had submitted the follow-  ing resolution: "Tha General Conference decides to set  up an Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget,  tobe convenedat suchatime andfor such purposes as  may be recommended by the Executive Board."
(18) He moved the adoption of that resolution.
(19) Mr. SEDES (France) said that his delegation  approved the draft resolution,
(20) Itseemedtohim thatthe work of the Advisory  Committee during the Conference had made no contribu-  tion to the preparation of the programme, but had  helped the Programme and Budget Commission  considerably in examining special problems.
(21) The Executive Boardshouldtherefore decide to keep  the Advisory Committee inbeingand work on that basis.
(224 The CHAIRMAN observed that it was not left to  the Board to decide whether the Advisory Committee  should be retained; the Board would merely decide  what work it should do.
(23) During the last discussions in the Advisory Com-  mittee Mr. SEDES (France) h ad received the  impression that the Board would be left a degree of  freedom on that point.
(24) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Chairman of the  Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget)  agreed that the question was important. In the  course of discussion in the Advisory Committee, the  opinion had been expressed that the Executive Board  should be free to decide not to convene an Advisory  Committee 1f it did not appear necessary to do so.
(25) The CHAIRMAN thought that it would be fcr the  Executive Board to decide whether the Advisory  BUDGET     COMMISSION IV-34  Committee should meet before the opening of the  ninth session of the General Conference, but that,  o.1ce the session had opened, decisions regarding it  would rest with the Conference.
(26) Mc. FAWZI (Egypt) considered that the work of  the Advisory Committee during the Conference had  been useful and constructive in certain matters, but,  in others, had duplicated the work of the Programme  and Budget Commission.
(27) He recalled that, when the Advisory Committee  had been set up, by a decision of the General Confe-  rence at its seventh session, to replace the Budget  Committee, the object had been to ensure greater  corzentration and from that point of view the Com-  mince had proved useful. He therefore felt that the  Committee should be kept in being, but that its work  should be concentrated on certain essential problems,
(28) Mr. ABEYWICKREMA (Ceylon) thought that,  even though the Commission did not always agree with  the recommendations of the Advisory Committee, the  Committee served a useful purpose. If the member-  ship of the Advisory Committee were increased to  incluuve representatives of more Member States, the  Committee would be even more useful, especially if it  consisted of representatives of Member States not  already represented on the new Executive Board.
(29) Referring to the resolution submitted by the  Advisory Committee, he pointed out that, if the Com-  mittee were to be called between sessions of the  General Conference, expenses would be greatly  increased, whereas, by calling the Committee imme-  diately prior to a session of the General Conference,  extra travel costs would be avoided.
(30) Mr. ZAMORANO HERNANDEZ (Chile) sad that  his delegation supported the draft resolution submitted  by the Chairman of the Advisory Committee on Pro-  gramme and Budget, and asked, as the delegation of  Ceylon had done, that the membership of the Com-  mittee be increased and, In particular, that  representatives of countries not on the Executive  Board be included.
(31) Mr. BROWNELL (United States of America)  thought that one reason for duplication of work  between the Advisory Committee and the Commission  was that the Commission did not use the Committee  as 1t was intended it should be used.
(32) Everyone hoped that the Executive Board and the  Secretariat, in making plans for the ninth session of  the General Conference, would attempt to see that the  best possible use of available time was made and that  duplication was avoided.
(33) In his opinion, the Advisory Committee had made  a wise recommendation in providing the Executive  Board with facilities for preparatory work for the  ninth session. He supported the resolution submitted  by the Advisory Committee.
(34) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) found the discussion  interesting, but thought 1t should be remembered that,  ever since Unesco began, the delicate matters of co-  ordination and agreement had been the subject of many  discussions, which had produced, successively, the  Budget Committee, the Programme and Budget  - 501 -   IV-34 PROGRAMME AND  Commir sion and, finally, the Advisory Committee on  Programme and Budget.
(35) The Greek delegate wonderea whether the work of  coordination could not:nfuturebe carried out by the  Executive Board which was the best infe rmed and most  competent body to take decisions between sessions of  the General Conference He saw no need to set up anew  body, whose members would be delegates of their res-  pective governments ard might nothave sufficient  background knowledge to do the work required of them.
(36) He urgedthatthe Organizations working methods  should be studied with a view to simplifying them.
(37) The CHAIRMAN did not think that the discussion  could be continued without a representative of the  Executive Board, and proposed that the meeting  adjourn for a few minu es to enable the Board to send  one.
(39) On the arrival of 3ir Ronald Adam, Chairman of  the Executive Board, t'ie meeting resumed,
(40) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) supported the  resolution, though sharing the doubts exp: =sseu by  the delegate of Greece.
(41) In his opinion, th: creation of a Committee  having a governmental structure, when the Executive  Board had such a structure, would only mean a  duplication of work. The need for duplication was  less now than it had been formerly and he wondered  whether it was necessary to have an Advisory Com-  mittee at all. The Executive Board held a position  of trust and, 1f 1t were trusted, all the preparatory  work for the next General Conference could be left in  its hands.
(42) He would vote for the resolution submitted by  the Advisory Committee as bein« the best compromise  solution, but on the understanding that the Executive  Board had powers not to convene the Advisory  Committee before the next session of the General  Conference if it so desired.
(43) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) did not see the force of  the argument of duplication of work. It was always  necessary for the Genaral Conference to scrutinize  the programme and budget and only a small body such  as the Advisory Committee could carry out a detailed  scrutiny successfully.
(44) He was of the opinion that, if the scope of the  Committee's activities were widened, its work  would be of greater use. He suggested that, in order  to save time in the Programme Commission, the  Executive Board and tne Programme Commission  should give the Adviscry Committee a specific  mandate.
(45) He thought that il would be worth while to have  on the Advisory Committee representatives of  Member States not represented on the Executive  Board, especially if the work of the General Confe-  rence were reorganiz:d.
(46) Mr. CALO (Italy) paid tribute to the very great  assistance that the Advisory Committee had given the  Programme and Budget Commission on certain points.  But he felt that, on the whole, the work of the  BUDGET     COMMISSION  Advisory Committee had duplicated that of the Com-  mission and had done something to cause indecision  and difficulties. While recogmzing that the Committee  could help In effecting economies and introducing new  methods, the Italian delegate thought that, in view of  the new structure of the Executive Board, the conti-  nued existence of the Committee might lead to sharper  and bitterer conflicts than in the past.
(47) He therefore proposed that, in the new versicr  of Rule 25 of the Rules of Prncedure, which had just  been adopted by the Conference, the words "the  Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget" be  deleted,
(48) If his proposal did not meut with general agree-  ment, the Conference could leave the decision to the  Executive Board.
(49) M1. LOEFFLER (German Federal Republic)  endorsea the tributes paid to the Advisury Commitee  and said that he agreed with the United Kingdom  delegate on every point,
(50) Mr. DE SALIS (Switzerland) also paid tribute to  the work accomplished by the Advisory Committee; it  seemed to mim that the fears voiced about duplication  were not really justified. In his opinion, the Execu-  tive Bo= ¢, owing to its new structure, would in future  have a heavier and more difficult task than in the past.  It might wish to pass on to another body certain prob-  lems connected with figures and programme details,  so as to concentrate on long-term work. It might  also be glad to hear another independent opinion.
(51) The Swiss delegate therefore hoped that the  resolution would be so drafted as to make the Advisory  Committee an aid to the Executive Board between  sessions of the General Conference and an organ of  the Conference during sessions.
(52) Mr. THA HLA (Union of Burma) joined with  other delegates in praising the services of the Advisory  Committee.
(53) The Burmese delegation had supported the  proposal for the changed structure of the Executive  Board, because it felt that, by having a governmental  structure, the Executive Board would be strengthened.  The Executive Board was bound by the Constitution to  act in the interests of all Member States. In spite of  that, he thought that it was necessary to have an  Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget in  order to obtain a more representative opinion and he  agreed with the delegate of Ceylon that the Committee  should be composed of representatives of Member  States not represented on the Executive Board.
(54) He disagreed with the proposal of the Advisory  Committee that its existence should be at the discretion  of the Board. The Advisory Committee should exist  in its own right.
(55) The CHAIRMAN observed that the draft resolution  submitted by the Chairman of the Advisory Committee  gave no indication of the number of the Committee's  members; the subject under discussion was the  principle of keeping the Committee in being.
(56) Mr. SUZUKI (Japan) said that his delegation  was prepared to approve the proposed draft  resolution.  - 502 -   PROGRAMME AND
(57) Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia) was of the opinion that,  as the Executive Board was now composed of govern-  ment representatives, 1t would be a duplication of  work to have an Advisory Committee also composed  of government representatives. He thought that the  Advisory Committee served a useful purpose and  suggested that 1t should, in the future, be composed  of experts.
(58) He would support the resolu*inn submitted by the  Advisory Committee if the charactur of the Committee  were changed.
(59) Mr. BENDER (Netherlands) supported the  proposal of the Advisory Committee and the remarks  made by the delegate of the United Kingdom.
(60) The work done by the Advisory Committee was  useful to the General Conference. If there was a  danger of its work overlapping that of another body  of the General Conference, 1ts terms of reference  could be changed.
(61) He suggested that an Advisory Committee  should be set up by the General Conference as a  transitional measure and that any decision as to 1ts  future should be left to the ninth session of the  General Conference.
(62) Sir Roland ADAM (Chairman of the Executive  Board) outlined tne work done by the Executive Board  in connexion with the programme and budget. In the  November before a General Conference, the Director-  General gave au outline of his proposed programme to  the Executive Board. The Board discussed that pro-  gramme in the following March and, in the following  July, prepared its report on the programme, which  report was sent to the Member States.
(63) The Executive Board followed the programme  through all the stages of its growthand knew more  about it than any committee could possibly know.
(64) In his opiniun, the new Executive Board,  representing twenty-two Member States, making a  detailed report on the future programme, was in a  much better position to judge its merits than any  committee would be, even after a detailed scrutiny  lasting two weeks.
(65) Mr. RAADI (Iran) said that, if the structure of  the Executive Board had not been altered, he would  be entirely in favour of retaining the Advisory  Committee, provided that its working methods were  changed to avoid duplication.
(66) He agreed with the United Kingdom delegate that  in the existing circumstances it was the Cenimission  which should vote for its abolition.
(67) However, as the Advisory Committee had gained  some experience in the course of its work, he thought  he might suggest a compromise: the Commission  would agree to the abolition of the Advisory Committee  in principle, but would decide that, at meetings of  the Executive Board concerned with the preparation  of the programme and budget, the existing officers of  the Advisory Committee could be called upon to give  their views in an advisory capacity; the final decision  would be left to the General Conference at its next  session.
(68) Mr. CALO (Italy) asked whether the decision  taken by the Conference with regard to the new text  BUDGET COMMISSION     TV-34  of Rule 25 of the Rules of Procedure should be  considered as definite and final.
(69) The CHAIRMAN thought so ard wondered whether  the Commission could reopen discussion on a decision  of the General Conference.
(70) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Chairman of the  Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget)  remarked that the decision of the General Conference  obviously altered the situation, That decision would  mean that the Executive Board did not have the power  to suppress the Advisory Committee,
(71) The resolution submitted by the Advisory Com-  mittee would still be useful, however, as it would  give the Board the opportunity of deciding the most  appropriate time for convemng the Committee as well  as latitude with regard to its terms of reference.
(72) The CHAIRMAN said that the question oi the  Advisory Committee's existence was no longer at
1ssue, but the Commission could consider how the  Conference's decision was to be carried out,
(73) Mr. CALO (Italy) suggested that the Executive  Board be instructed to decide upon the date at which  ihe Advisory Committee should meet, as well as on  its functions and responsibilities.
(74) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium) observed that, in  view of the explanations given by the Chairman, the  draft proposed by the Chairman of the Advisory Com-  mittee was no longer suitable,
(75) The Conference should be requested, not to set  up the Advisory Committee, but to decide the date on  which it should be convened.
(76) The CHAIRMAN thought that the first paragraph  should read as follows: "The General Conference  decides that the Advisory Committee shall be convened  at such a time and for such purposes as may be re-  commended by the Executive Board", and that the  second paragraph should deal with the membership of  the Committee.
(77) The first paragraph was put to the vote and  approved by 42 votes, with 1 abstention,
(78) The CHAIRMAN did not think it was for the  Commission to decide which countries should be re-  presented on the Advisory Committee - that was a  matter for the Nominations Committee - but it could  decide the size of the Committee's membership,
(79) Mr. ABEYWICKREMA (Ceylon) suggested that  the Commission recommend to the Nominations Com-  mittee that, in nominating members for the Advisory  Committee, representatives should be chosen from  Member States not already represented on the Execu-  tive Board.
(80) Mr. RAADI (Iran) said that, in the opinion of his  delegation, the resolution should mention that the  Executive Board was responsible for cle ~rly delimit-  ing the respective tasks of the Advisory Committee  and the Programme and Budget Commission.
(81) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) thought  - 503 -   IV-34 PROGKAMME AND  it would be advisable to make it clear that the Execu-  tive Board was responsible for reconsidering the  functions and terms of reference of the Advisory  Committee.
(82) Healso remindedthe Commission thatthe Advi-  sory Committee had been set up by a decision of the  Conference at its seventh session. The decision just  taken on the subject by the plenary conference had  been taken by default, as the question vi the Com-  mittee's continued existence had not been raised, t e  amendment to Rule 25 being simply a verbal change.
(83) The Assistant Director-General thought that the  question could therefore be reopened and that it was  accordingly essential to make it clear that the  Executive Board was not bound by the decision taken  at the seventh session, but could re-examine the  terms of reference and function. of the Advisory  Committee.
(84) Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia), drew attention  again to the character of the Advisory Committee,  pointing out that, 1n his opinion, it should in the future  be composed of experts, as the Executive Board was  composed c: ,overnment representatives. Priority  should be given to representatives of Member States  not already represented on the Executive Board.
(85) He questioned the legality of the resolution  passed by the Plenary Conference, pointing out that  the Programme and Budget Commission had not yet  pronounced on the programme phase of the Advisory  Committee's report when the resolution had been  adopted. He thought that the matter should be taken  up and the Plenary Conference asked to reconsider  its decision.
(86) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) agreed with the Iranian  delegate with regard to the competence of the Advisory  Committee.
(87) The Committee had been set up at the seventh  session of the Conference and its mandate should  have ended with the eighth session. Owing to the  changes made in the various conference organs, it  was no longer so important, and the Executive Board  should therefore define what it was to do.
(88) Mr. DE SALIS (Switzerland) also supported  the Iranian delegate's proposal,
(89) With regard to the membership of the Advisory  Committee, the Swiss delegate thought that members  should not be government representatives but should  act as experts or advisers to the Executive Boara.
(90) Mr. CALO (Italy) explained that he had proposed  raising the question of retaining the Advisory Com-  mittee because he had 1n front of him the record of  the plenary Conference's discussions.
(91) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) observed that, accord-  ing to the draft resolution submitted for the  Commission's approval, the Conference would  nominate the countries to be represented on the  Advisory Conimittee; as the Committee was a  technical one, however, he saw no need for nominat-  ing countries.
(92) Mr. SEDES (France) recalled that the Advisory  Committee was responsible for assisting the  B     UDGET COMMISSION  Programme and Budget Commission in its work; he  therefore considered that decisions concerning it  were the business of the Commission.
(93) The CHAIRMAN asked delegates to vote on  whether the question of the Committee's existence  should be referred to the General Conference.
(24) It was decided, by 25 votes to 7, with 5 absten-  tions, that the decision to keep the Committee in  being still stood.
(95) The CHAIRMAN wondered whether the first  paragraph of the draft resolution submitted by the  Chairman of the Advisory Committee should not be  amended in accus dance with the French delegate's  suggestion.
(96) Mr. SEDES (France) explained what his comments  implied; the Executive Board should be responsible  for determining what the Advisory Com-nittee was ‘o  do, but only after deciding upon the functions of the  Prograrame and Budget Commission, and with refer-  ence thereto.
(97) Mr. DUERING (Sweden) thought that, although all  delegations were agreed that it would not be necessary  to hold a meeting of the Advisory Committee before  the ninth session of the General Conference, it would  he advisable to make arrangements for having such a  Conimittee to help with the work at that session. The  Advisory Committe > had the important task of making  adjustment: to the budget and of balancing it.
(98) He supported the proposal to set up an Advisory  Committee ard of leaving it to the Executive Board to  decide when it vas to meet,
(99) Mr. FAWZI (Egypt) felt that the task of the  Advisory Committee was to advise the Programme and  Budget Commission.
(100) He agreed with the views expressed by the  Burmese delegate concerning the selection of members  of the Advisory Cominittee from among representatives  of countries which did not belong to the Executive  Board, and with the Liberian delegate's opinion that  they should serve as experts. On the last point, he  thought it would be advisable to choose people with  experience of the various chapters of the programme,
(101) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Chairman of the  Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget)  suggested the addition of the following paragraph:  "Requests the Executive Board, in considering the  organization of the ninth session of the General Confe-  rence and in particular connexion with the Advisory  Committee on the Programme and Budget, to make  precise recommendations concerning the terms of  reference of such an Advisory Committee, "
(102) Mr. FORSYTH (New Zealand) considered that  it would be better not to define the functions of the  Advisory Committee in the second part of the resolu-  tion. The Administrative Commission was faced with  difficult problems from time to time, which it referred  direct 10 the Legal Committee. The Programme Com-  mission could do likewise with the Advisory Committee,  but only if the terms of reference of that Committee  were not too closely defined beforehand.  - 504 -   PROGRAMME AND
(103) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) observed that the  regulations in force authorized the Executive Board  to call in qualified experts to assist it in its work.  He therefore saw no need to call in new experts to  review the work of the others.
(104) Mr, BROWNELL (UnitedStates of America),  raising a point of order, said that, although the  resolution would authorize the Executive Board to  convene the Advisory Committee if and when neces-  sary, reference had been made in the discussion to  the fact that it would be unnecessary to convene it  before the ninth session of the General Conference.  If it was correct that the Committee would not be  convened before the ninth session, he could see no  point in the resolution. If the Committee was to  meet prior to the ninth session, its composition,  the time of its meeting and its terms of reference  could be left to the Executive Board. He did not  consider that such details could be determined by  the Programme Commission at the present stage.  BUDGET     COMMISION IV -35
(105) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-Genera!)  observed that the Advisory Committee was ar  organ of the General Conference, and at  the next session 1t would be well to  consider the expediency of retaining at as  such.
(106) In his opimion, the Executive Board should  be invited, when discussing the reorganization of  the Conference's work, to submit recommendations  to :*t2 Conference on the functions of the  Committee and the need for its continued  existence.
(107) The CHAIRMAN proposed that the discussion  be adjourned to allow an exact text to be prepared,  and submitted for approval by the Commission at ‘ts  next meeting.
(108) Agreed.  The meeting rose a. 1 p.m,  THIRTY-FIFTH MEETING
9 December 1951, at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman: Mr, BOURGEOIS (Switzerland)  RESOLUTIONS ON THE PROGRAMME AND THE BUDGET —  REPORT OF THE RAPPORTEUR (document 8C/PRG/30 (prov.))
(1) Mr, HOPE (Rapporteur) in presenting the docu-  ment, said that the major and second part of the report  consisted of an annex setting out the changes voted by  the Commission in respect of the Proposed Programme  and Budget for 1955-56. The first part contained his  own comments on the Commission's actions, under  three headings:
1. Irtroductory remarks.
2. A selection of the main events in the eigm  chapters of the 1955-56 programme, and in particular  the new items introduced into it.
3. Observations on methods of procedure, made  both inside and outside the Commission, which  he had thought proper to summarize and place  on record for the benefit of the Secretariat, the  Executive Board and future participants in the  Conference.
(2) A matter of some concern had been the fact that  the Commission had not started work until six days  after the opening of the Conference, and not until the  twelfth day had it been provided with a budget ceiling  on which to base its examination of the programme,
(3) The remodelled programme had been explained  by the Chairman of the retiring Executive Board and  debate on it had been postponed until completion of the  study of the programme. After careful examination,  and after hearing the report of the Advisory Committee,    which satisfied previous doubts on the problem of  general and special activities, the Commission had  unanimously approved the remodelled programme.
(4) The Technical Assistance programme had Leen  approved at an early stage of the Commission's work  and the Rapporteur wished to draw the attention of the  Director of Technical Assistance to some of the  excellent comments on his programme. In pointing  out an error in the second line (page 2, No. 3 of the  document) ~ the word "fortuitous" should be replaced  by the word "'fortunate' - he stressed the heavy work  involved in preparing and amending documents and  thanked the Secretariat for its great ard valuable  efforts in that respect. He hoped that the directors  of departments would find time to read the many  revealing and constructive comments made by  delegates on programme acuivities.
(5) A tribute was due to the working parties and to  the Chairmen and Rapporteurs for their excellent  reports, all of which had been adopted unanimously.  In that connexion, he had been struck by the zeal of  members of the Commission, who, aware of the  responsibility invested in them, had been determined  to investigate each programme thoroughly and had  been quick to oppose the delegation of their duties to  working parties or the limiting of discussion to items  on which there was disagreement. It was the more to  be regretted, therefore, that because of the super-  abundance of documents they had not had time to  carry out their intention.  - 505 -