SUMMARY RECORDS   CHAPTER IN w-1  GENERAL COMMITTEE  FIRST MEETING
13 November 1954 at 9 a. m.  Chairman: Mr. ZAVALA MUNIZ (Uruguay)
(1) The CHAIRMAN opened the meeting and read the  list of men:bers of the General Committee, which  consisted cf the Vice-Presidents elected by the  General Conference and the Chairmen of commissions  and committees, with the exception of the Headquarters  Committee, which was not represented. He reques-  ted the Chairmen of those commissions or committees  to arrange to be represented by the Vice-Chairman  or, in his absence, by the Rapporteur, if for any  reason they could not attend a meeting. He referred  to Rule 36 of the Rules of Procedure of the General  Conference concerning the functions of the General  Committee and proposed the approval of the pro-  gramme as set forth in document 8C/BUR/AG/1. In  conclusion, he announced that the Committee was to  hear the report of the Chairman of the Executive  Beard.  PROPOSE!) ORGANIZATION OF WORK OF THE ElGNTE SESSION  (Document 8C/BUR/1) TEMES OF MEETINGS
(2) Introducing document 8C/BUR/1, Sir Ronald  ADAM recalled that the Board had been instructed by  the General Conference at its seventh session to re-  view the Corference ‘s working methods and suggest  improvements. He requested the General Committee  to consider the Board's suggestions, point by point.
(3) The first suggestion was that the General Confer-  ence be requested to reverse its decision to suspend  the application of Rules 58, paragraphs 1 and 59,  paragraph 1 of its Rules of Procedure for the eighth  session of the General Conference. The approval of  the Board's suggestion would mean that verbatim  records of plenary meetings of the Conference would  be drawn up and circulated to delegations for  correction as soon as possible.
(4) Approved,
(5) Sir Ronald Adam then requested the  Committee to consider points (a), (b)  and (c) at the bottom of page 1 and  the top of page 2 of document 8C/BUR/1.    Sub-paragraph (a)
(6) Approved.  Sub-paragraph (b)
(7) Mr. BEEBY, as Chairman of the Administrative  Commission, requested the right to hold the first  four of the working perty meetings. He intended to.  ask the Commission to set up a working party that  afternoon, and it could meet at once.
(9) As Chairman of the Advisory Committee on Pro-  gramme and Budget, Mr. GARDNER DAVIES an-  nounced that the Committee intended to propose the  establishment of two working parties, one on  decentralization and the other on the reorganization  of the Department of Mass Communication.
(10) Sub-paragraph (b) was approved.  Sub-paragraph (c)
(11) Approved.
(12) Sir Ronald ADAM requested the Committee to  consider the Board's next suggestion, which was that  the Board's report on the remodelling of the pro-  gramme be examined by the Advisory Committee on  Programme and Budget, after the 1’ tter had comple-  ted its examination of the draft programme aad budget  for 1955-56.
(13) Approved.  ORGANIZATION OF THE GENERAL DISCUBRON ON THE REPOBT  OF THE DIRECTOR - GENERAL
(14) The next point concerned the organization of the  general discussion on the Report of the Director-  General. The Board's suggestion was that speakers  should be requested to focus their remarks on the  salient features of the Report, and that the whole  - 237 -   m-1 GENERAL  discussion should be speeded up. To give effect to  the suggestion, it was proposed that the discussion  be limited to six plenary meetings, each lasting a  maximum of three hours, and that each speaker be  lirnited to a quarter of an hour.
(15) It seemed to Mr. KABIR that delegations would  concentrate on the points in the Director-General's  Report which they themselves considered to be the  most important, He did not see how the Executive  Board or the General Committee could define the  “salient features" or how the President could oblige  speakers to focus their remarks on thom. As for  the length of speeches, it had been suggested that  there be six plenary meetings of three hours each,  making a total of eighteen hours, As fewer than  thirty-six speakers had so far been inscribed, it  might be possible to allow them a longer time each,  for example, twenty-five minutes.
(18) Sir Ronald ADAM reminded the delegate of India  that the list of speakers was not yet closed, as some  heads of delegations, the Head of the United Kingdom  delegation, for example, had not yet arrived.
(17) Mr. BERNAL JIMENEZ considered the proposal  of the Chairman of the Executive Board the sounder.  He had thought of proposing a shorter time-limit for  speakers, twelve minutes, for instance, but, consi-  dering that fifteen minutes was the customary time-  limit and a judicial one, he accepted the proposal of  the Chairman of the Board. That limit shculd be  strictly adhered to, as many other speakers were  sure to ask to have their names put down,
(18) Mr. AWAD and Mr. SAWADA seconded Mr.  Jimenez' remarks.
(19) The Executive Board's suggestion was approved,
(20) Sir Ronald ADAM drew the Committee's atten-  tion to the Board's next suggestion, set forth in  paragraph 1.1, sub-paragraph (b), pages 2-3 of  document 8C/BUR/1. He pointed out that it was a  difficult question, as most deiegations wished tc  speak on the last two days of the session and often,  on the second day of the session, there were not  enough speakers on the list.
(21) The Board's suggest.on was approved.
(22) Sir Ronald ADAM observed that the rest of the  document was submitted mainly for information, He  would, however, draw attention to the last paragraph  of 5.2. The Board suggesied that commissions and  committees should not wait until their Chairmen  arrived from the General Committee, but should  proceed to business at the appointed time under the  presidency of their Vice-Chairmen.
(23) The suggestion was approved.
(24) The whole of document 8C/BUR/1 was approved.
(25) The CHAIRMAN stated that the whole of the docu-  ment submitted by the Executive Board had been approvec  He asked for the list of speakers inscribed to be read out,    COMMITTEE
(26) With regard to the liat of speakers, Mr.  MONTAGNIER requested members of the Committee  to refer to document 8C/DIV/73 and to add the dele-  gation of Iran to those already listed in the document  as due to speak on Saturday morning, 13 November,
(27) Mr. COWELL stated that, as the Chairman of  the Executive Board had already mentioned, the Head  of the United Kingdom delegation had been delayed at  sea, His name was therefore not yet on the list of  speakers, Fis delegation wished to apply for  inscription cn the list and would consult Mr.  Montagnier regarding the most appropriate time,
(28) The list of speakers was approved.  USE OF RUSSIAN DURING TWE EIGHTH SESSION (document
(29) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained that he had  received an informal request from the Soviet Embassy  in Paris that the Secretariat estimate the cost of the  various services required for the use of Russian  during the General Conference. On the basis of that  request, the Executive Board had adopted a resolution  in private meeting on 20 July 1854, authorizing him to  make the necessary preparations up to a maximum of  $50,000. In anticipation of a favourable decision of  the General Conference, he had accordingly arranged  for a minimum number of services, which had so  far resulted in commitments which would cost  approximately $25,000.
(30) Sir Ronald ADAM stated that the Board assumed  full responsibility for what it had done. Its decision  had been taken in private, because the Board had been  anxious not to raise too many false hopes.
(31) Mr. STOLETOV announced that his country had  every intention of participating actively in Unesco's  constructive work, but felt that it would be unable to  do so unless Russian were accepted as an official  working language at Unesco's conferences and meet-  ings. He drew attention to the fact that Russian was  one of the ofricial working languages of the United  Nations; it seemed to him inconceivable for an or-  ganization like Inesco, devoted to education, science  and culture, to take a decision other than that which  had been adopted by the United Nations.
(32) As for the financial aspect of the question, he  assured the Committee that the Soviet Union wished  to do everything possible to minimize expenditure,  His delegation considered the following to be the  minimum services required: (1) interpretation into  and from Russian at plenary meetings of the General  Conference and at meetings of its commissions and  committees; (2) interpretation into and from Russian  at meetings of the Executive Board; (3) translation  into Russian of the main official documents and  publications.
(33) In conclusion, Mr. Stoletov requested the  General Committee to support his delegation's re-  quest at the plenary meeting of the General Conference.
(34) Mr. NUFER regretted that his delegation could  not approve the decision taken by the Executive Board  in private meeting. His delegation felt that it had been  - 238 -   GENERAL  presented with a "fait accompli’. He proposed that  the whole question be thoroughly examined by the  Administrative Commission and that the Secretariat  be asked to submit detailed estimates of the cost of  the various services that would be required.
(35) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO pointed out that for  many years past Unesco had been hoping that the  USSR would take part in its work and that the Orga-  nization's ideas had not hitherto been as widely  disseminated as it would have wished among the  Soviet people. In his opinion, therefore, every-  thing possible should be done to bring within that  people's reach not only the documents produced by  the current Conference, but also all documents deal-  ing with projects or achievements that Unesco  considered of special importance for the development  of education, science and culture. He therefore  urged the General Conference to give sympathetic and  very thorough consideration to the question of  adopting Russian as a working language.
(36) The CHAIRMAN reminded the meeting that the  Executive Board's proposal under discussion refer-  red exclusively to the partial use of Russ'an at the  present session of the General Conference.
(37) At the request. of Mr, BEEBY, the DIRECTOR-  GENERAL gave details of the services for which he  had made preparations: (1) interpretation into and  from Russian at all meetings during the Conference  at which there was simultaneous interpretation;
(2) translation of the main documents of the session  and of draft resolutions from and into Russian;
(3) translation of speeches made in Russian in the  records of plenary meetings; (4) translation into  Russian of reports of commissions and committees;
(5) translation into Russian of the final text of the  resolutions and decisions of the General Conference  after the close of the eighth session. The total cost  would be approximately $50,000, of which $25,000  had already been expended or committed to some ex-  tent; that was to say, Russian interpreters and  translators had been asked not to take on any other  work which would prevent their coming to Montevideo  until the Conference's decision was known. If the  Conference's decision were favourable, those people  would be sent for; if not, they would have to be paid  an indemnity,
(388) Mr. COWELL stated that, in the opinion of his  delegation, the Executive Board had acted wisely in  anticipating its responsibilities. Moreover, under  the Constitution, the Board was empowered to act  for the General Conference between sessions. The  ‘Jnited Kingdom d2legation fully expected that the  General Conference would grant the Soviet request,  He therefore moved that the General Committee  adopt the proposal concerning the partial use of  Russian during the eighth session and that it approve  the action taken by the Executive Board. The ques-  tion of the future use of Russian in Unesco would be  considered by various organs of the General  Conference.
(39) The motion was seconded by Mr, KABIR, who wel-  comed the presence of the Soviet delegation and noted    COMMITTEE 1-1  with pleasure that it was their wish to keep expenditure  as low as possible.
(40) The motion was adopted, with 2 abstentions.
(41) Referring to a remark made by the delegate of  the United Kingdom, Mr.GARDNER DAVIES said that  the Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget  had given preliminary consideration to the proposal  of the Soviet delegation regarding the use of Russian  in future. The Committee had decided to ask the  Soviet delegation for further information, and the  Secretariat for budgetary estimates. Until it re-  ceived that information, the Committee did not feel  able to discuss the matter further.
(42) In reply to a question from Mr. STOLETOV, the  CHAIRMAN said that (he question of the use of Russian  during the eighth session would come before the  plenary meeting of the Conference that same day.  VOTING RIGHTS OF COUNTRIES IN ARREARS IN THE PAYLSAT  OF THEIR CONTRIBUTIONS
(43) Mr. BERNAL JIMENEZ stated that the report  of the Credentials Committee, which had been  approved the previous day, included a list of the  States which were in the position referred to and to  which Rule 78 of the Rules of Procedure appiied. The  problem shou.d be considered with reference to  paragraphs (2) and (3) of the said Rule,
(44) He asked the Secretariat for more detailed in-  formation on that question and would like to know the  opinion of the Legal Adviser.
(45) Mr. BEEBY suggested that the matter m:ght be  referred to the Committee on Contributions, which  the Administrative Commission would be setting up  that day. That Committee could report back on  Monday or Tuesday.
(46) The motion was seconded by Mr. NUFER and  adopted.  DRAFT LESOLUTIONS HAVING BUDGETARY REPERCUSSIONS  SUBMITTED TO THE SECRETARIAT AFTER THE DEADLINE  LAID DOWN IN RULE 78, PARAGRAFH ? OF THE RULES OF  PROCEDURE
(47) Mr. MONTAGNIER said that two draft resolu-  tions which might have budgetary repercussions had  been received after the deadline (documents 8C/DR/63  and 64). They had been submitted by Poland and  France respectively, If the Rules of Procedure were  strictly applied, those two proposals would not be  eligible for consideration, At the seventh session  of the General Conference, held in Paris, the General  Committee had been consulted on whether draft r>-  solutions received after expiry of the time-limit could  be considered,
(48) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO pointed out that the  draft resolutions In question did not affect the budget  to a very great extent, Since the Conference was  meeting that year in a country rather far away from  Europe, he hoped that they should not take too  strict an attitude towards the proposals in question.  - 239 -   m-2 GENERAL
(45) Mr, COWELL seconded the riotion, but with  some reluctance, 2) he was a member of the Advisory  Committee on Prog ‘amme and Budget, which had to  examine all the dri It resolutions, The French and  Polish proposals b ought their number up to 64. He  hoped that, in futu e, delegations wou'd not submit  draft resolutions « ter the deadline.
(50) Mr. BERNA], JIMENEZ support:d Mr .Berredo  Carneirc's propo: al and agreed with the interpreta-  tion given by the ! nited Kingdom representative. He  thought that the question should be treated as an  exceptional case 1 >r the reasons given by Mr.  Carneiro. ;
(51) Mr. BOURGEOIS agreed with the United  Kingdom delegate. He would like to see special stress  SECOND     COMMITTEE  laid onthe exceptional character of the treatment it was  proposed to give to the draft resolutions in question,
(52) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES announced that the  Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget would  include in its report a recommendation that, in future  years, Member States should be asked to submit new  draft resolutions at a time when the Director-General  could take them into cons!deration in preparing the  draft programme and budget for the next two years.
(53) The motion proposed by Mr. Berredo  Carneiro was adopted.  The meeting rose at 10.35 a.m.  MEETING
15 November u. 9 a. me  Chairman : Mr. ZAVALA MUNIZ (Uruguay)
(1) The CHAIRMAN informed the General Committee  that the Republic of Cuba had paid a sufficient pro-  portion of its arrears to enable it to take part with  full voting rights in the General Conference. The  delegation of Venezuela, on the other hand, would  not be attending the eighth session of the General  Conference.
(2) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL drew attention to the  fact that Venezuela's failure to send a delegation to  the eighth session of the General Conference meant  that the Headquarters Committee was without a  Chairman., He suggested that the General Committee  might wish to appoint as Chairman Mr. Berredo  Carneiro (Brazil), who had served on the Headquar-  ters Committee for a long time. In order not to  lose a Latin American seat on the General Committee,  he suggested that a delegate of à Latin American  country be appointed Vice-Chairman.
(3) Mr. RUIZ-GIMENEZ concurred in the Director-  General's proposal.
(4) Mr. BERNAL JIMENEZ also agreed with the  proposal that Mr. Berredo Carneiro, delegate of  Brasil, be appointed Chairman of the Headquarters  Committee and that the vacancy created by that ap-  pointment among the ten Vice-Presidents of the  General Conference be filled by a representative of  Latin America,
(5) Mr.BERREDO CARNEIRO accepted that proposal,
(6) The agenda having been completed, the CHAIRMAN  - 240 -     called upon the Chairmen of commissions and com-  mittees to report on the progress of work in their  respective bodies.
(7) Mr, GARDNER DAVIES announced that the Ad-  visory Committee on Programme and Budget had  completed its detailed examination of the Director-  General's draft programme and budget for 1955-58,  Further, it had completed, with two exceptions, its  examination of draft resolutions submitted by dele-  gations to the eighth session of the General Conference,  The Committee would be considering its report that  evening, and it should be ready for distribution  sometime the following day. In accordance with its  terms of reference, the Committee's report was to  go to the Programme and Budget Commission and to  the Administrative Commission. The Advisory  Committee hoped that the Administrative Comm:ssion  would examine the two following points as soon as  possible: (1) the scale of contributions for 1955-36;
(2) the method of financing the budget for 1955-56,  Until the Administrative Commission had taken a  decision on the first point, the General Conference  could not consider the question of the total budget  figure for 1955-56, With regard to the second polat,  by special decision of the General Conference, the  budget surplus of previous years had been used in
1953-54 to finance the current budget.
(8) Mr. BEEBY stated that the Administrative Com-  mission had held its first meeting on Saturday  afternoon, when it had elected its officers and set up  a Committee on Contributions. The Committee was  to meet in the afternoon and the whole of the nextday