IV-8 PROGRAMME AND  Co-ordinating Committee of Secretaries to ensure  continuity,
(70) He had been interested ir the remarks made by  the delegate of Pakistan that a project shculd not  >nly be useful to the country concerned but should
2 used for training purposes for people of other  nationalities. The Ceylonese delegation would  welcome educators from other countries at  Minneriya.
(71) The CHAIRMAN proposed that members of the  Commission should collectively express their  admiration and gratitude for the work accomplished  by the Technical Assistance Department, as  described by Mr, Adiseshiah.
(72) Approved.
(73) Mr. FAUBLAS (Haiti) said that, in the opinion  of his delegation, Unesco seemed to tackle too many  problems at the same time; before embarking on  new enterprises, it would perhaps have been wise to  concentrate resources and efforts on fundamental  education and on primary schooling 1n town and  country. Without losing sight of its aim of creating  an intellectual élite in every country, the  Orgamzation should before all else enable the  masses to approach nearer to that élite.
(74) With regard to technical assistance, the  Haitian delegate thought that Unesco's first task was,  not to try to satisfy all the demands made upon it by  Member States, but to decide which States most  needed such assistance.
(75) The Haitian delegation would like to see carried  out, in other countries, the same kind of work as  BUD     GET COMMISSION  had been accomplished in Ecuador and Guateruala,
(76) Mr. RAADI (Iran) agreed with the French  delegate on the advisability of simplifying the  functioning of technical assistance,
(77) On the other hand, the Iranian delegate noted  with satisfaction that, in the technical assistance  programme for 1955-56, priority had been assigned  to primary and secondary education.
(78) He hoped that, in the scientific field, the  countries not directly associated with technical  assistance projects would be enabled to benefit from  the results obtained in other countries,
(79) Mr. Raadi welcomed the news that the  technical assistance programme was being rendered  more flexible, as his delegation had advocated on  more than one occasion.
(80) However, he thought mention should be made  of the fact that fellowships were still too few and  that, in order to enable their holders to derive the  maximum benefit from them, their duration should  be extended.
(81) With regard to the preparation of expeots, the  Iran:an delegate agreed with his colleague from  Pakistan, He thought, too, that missions should be  of longer duration, so as to enable experts to  adapt themselves, physically and mentally, to the  country in which they had to work.
(82) He also belicved that any general adoption of  the system whereby the governments shared the  expenses of the experts' visit would be unwise, as  it might oblige certain countries which were short  of funds to refuse the services of experts,  The meeting rose at 1 p.m.  EIGHTH MEETING
23 November 1954 at 1) a. m.  Chairman: Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland)
(1) The CHAIRMAN drew the attention of delegates  to the final report of the Expert Committee on  Education for International Understanding and Co-  operation which met in Paris from 25 October to
5 November 1954 (document 8C/DIV/80). He  proposed that that document be submitted tn the  Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget, so  that the latter might evolve concrete directives and  resolutions from it.
(2) Approved.  ITEM 8.4.8 OF REVISED AGENDA : TECHNICAL  ASSISTANCE (continued)
(3) Mr. AL-HILLI (Iraq), referring to technical  assistance projects in Iraq, said that there was need    - 306 -  for co-ordination between the agencies involved,  to prevent overlapping. A conference had been  held of representatives of those agencies together  with members of the ministries under whose  Jurisdiction the work on projects came, and plans  had been made to solve the problem of duplication,  The conference had also str:ssed the importance  of the national contribution to projects. He felt  that Unesco could encourage similar conferences  in other countries,
(4) It was the desire of his Government to have  further Unesco aid to expand the fundamental  education project in Iraq. Up to the present,  there was only one fundamental education centre,  which was purely regional and did not meet the  urgent needs of Iraq as a whole, If Unesco would   PROGRAMME AND BUDGET COMMISSION IV-8  help 1n the training of teachers, another centre  could be set up near Baghdad,
(5) Further, in the past, Unesco had confined its  technical education work in Iraq to schools. He  felt that much could be done, by holding evemny  classes and by other means, to educate skilled  labourers, who were, in most cases, illiterate.  There was urgent need in Iraq for such a scheme.
(6) Finally, he drew the attention of the Commission  to a new experiment which was being tried out in  Iraq, namely, the cultural or vocational unit, Those  units were composed of a technical school, a  cultural school and a teacher training school. The  students lived together in one block and each  department had its own building. So far, there was  only one such unit in Iraq but, if the experiment  were successful, others would be set up. Unesco  could give assistance to each of the three schools  forming every unit. There was a special need for  teachers and techmcal assistance.
(7) Mrs, RODRIGUEZ (Philippines), speaking of  community education, pointed out that the Philippines  was an underdeveloped agricultural community with  a rural educational system inadequate for modern  needs. She emphasized that its Government was  willing to co-operate with Unesco to improve its  new community school programme.
(8) The Rural-Urban Education Centre, which was  formally opened in 1953 at Bayambang with Unesco  assistance, had overcome many obstacles and was  now doing well. It had certain objectives for which  special groups were working, each knowing what it  was trying to do, Naturally the project was still in  the experimental stage, but, if it was a success,  which it showed every sign of being, it was to be  hoped that similar projects would be started  elsewhere.
(9) In 1952 and 1953 groups of foreign educators  had visited the centre, and the Philippine Government  hoped that, after the General Conference, some of  the delegates might be able to pay the centre a visit.
(10) She concluded by expressing, on behalf of the  peoples and Government of the Philippines,  gratitude to the Director-General, the Chairman of  the Executive Board and to Mr. Secco Ellauri and  Mrs, Pecson for their visit to the centre and  admiration to Mr. Adiseshiah and his Department  for their work.
(11) Mr. CHARYAVIBHAJ (Thailand) expressed his  Government's appreciation of the technical assistance  which had been given to Thailand. The Government  was particularly grateful for the excellent services  of the experts engaged on various projects in the  country.
(12) With regard to document 8C/5 Annex VIII, he  had been impressed by the diversity of the programme  undertaken and by the results so far achieved.
(13) He drew the attention of the Secretariat to a  misleading statement in the last sentence of  paragraph 4 on page 69 of document 8C/5 Annex VIII,  which said that the Thailand Government had  indicated that assistance to the Chachoengsao  project might cease at the ena of 1955. The facts  were that the project had been planned in two stages  (a) for a period from 1951 to 1955 and (b) for a  - 307 -     period from 1955 to 1960. The first stage had  been intended to be experimental and Unesco was  to provide expert advice, The full quota of experts  did not arrive in Thailand until 1953. The  Government considered that the remaining period  for the experimental stage was too short and would  like to have it extended. The plan for the second  stage had been to sift out the successful educational  features from stage one, and incorporate them in  schools elsewhere. During that stage, technical  assistance would be reduced gradually until the  Government had taken over completely. Further  assistance would be appreciated.
(14) He was in complete agreement with the  delegate of Iran that the length of fellowships  should be extended, possibly for two years. He  also suggested that regional travel fellowships  might be inaugurated for short periods, as he  believed that such fellowships would be highly  beneficial in the fields of education, science and  culture as well as for promoting international  understanding.
(15) The CHAIRMAN said that there remained  nine speakers on the list for the general discussion.  He proposed that, once they had been heard, the  Commission should immediately proceed to examine  the resolutions appearing in document 8C/5  Annex VIII.
(16) Approved.
(17) Mr. JOHANNES (Indonesia) felt that social  and economic development should be preceded or  accompanied by educational development and that  emphasis should be put on educational development  in the programme.
(18) The requests for technical assistance from  Indonesia had been mainly concerned with primary  and secondary school education up to the present.  Now, however, the Government was faced with the  problem of too many students wanting a university  education and not enough professors to teach them.  The Indonesian Government was asking for technical  assistance in the field of university education, and  hoped that experts could be sent to help with science  teaching at that level, It would be necessary to  have experts willing to build up departments from  scratch, as there were no well equipped laboratories.  In order to undertake a programme to better  university education in Indonesia, all three types  of technical assistance would be required.
(19) The CHAIRMAN reminded delegates that the  current discussion was confined to general  remarks on document 8C/5 Annex VIII. He asked  speakers to deal only with points likely to contri-  bute to that discussion; the particular needs of  each country should be put before the .  Director-General.
(20) Mr. SALIM (Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan)  said that his Government felt that the programme  of technical assistance opened wide the door of  hope, and was grateful for its share of help
(21) The Government had been disappointed,  however, with the size of the allocation it had   IV-8 PROGRAMME AND  received because 1t had been promised more. He  hoped that a similar disappointment would not result  from the eighth session of the General Conference,  It was impossible for the technical assistance  programme to meet all the needs of all countries  but it was possible for countries who were in a  position to give finaacial help, to do so.
(22) He welcomed the principle of flexibility envisaged  in the new programme, because requests from  countries represented their most urgent needs, He  also appreciated the move to country planning, which  would, he felt, give better results, but could not  agree to the policy of supporting continuing projects  if it meant that countries entering the field for  technical assistance late would be deprived of it.  He suggested that a serious evaluation should be  made of the results of projects in the various  countries and a system of priority set up on the  relative needs of countries receiving little techmcal  assistance,
(23) In the interests of stability, the proposed  Working Capital Fund was a good idea, but, if the  programme for technical assistance were to be  curtailed for the three years during which the Fund  was accumulating, more than three years of  progress would be lost. A delay in starting a  programme of education for three years would mean  that three age groups would receive inadequate or  even bad education. He suggested that a scheme to  finance technical assistance might be elaborated  which would meet the requirements of stability and  at the same time avoid delaying programmes,
(24) Jordan was satisfied with the two Unesco  experts, who exerted themselves untiringly in the  interests not only of Jordan but also of Unesco.
(25) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) was of the opinion that  too many projects started with experts and ended in  reports. Reports might be excellent but they were  doomed to oblivion, either because the experts  applied statistical methods which were not appli-  cable to the country in which they were working, or  because the reports were impossible to implement.  For that reason he had been pleased to read in  document 8C/5 Annex VIII that the primary effort of  Unesco was to be the development of human resources.  After reading that statement, however, he had been  puzzled to see, from the table on page 11 of the  document, that the costs for experts were to go up  in 1955 and the costs for fellowships and equipment  were to be reduced, and asked for an explanation of  that apparent contradiction.
(26) He did not propose moving for changes in the  programme, but suggested that, in applying the 1955  programme, the principle of flexibility outlined on  page 8 of the document should be adhered to, that  Unesco should emphasize to all experts that their  primary task was one of training for leadership and,  for future programmes under country planning, that  Unesco should advise countries to move the balance  away from experts.
(27) He concluded by saying that his remarks about  experts under technical assistance were equally true  when applied to experts under the normal  programme of Unesco.
(28) Mr, DUERING (Sweden) said that, even if the  - 308 -  BUDGET     COMMISSION  work done under technical assistance did not  measure up to the needs of countries, it was  nevertheless impressive. He pointed out that, in
1953, there were requests for technical assistance  amounting to $43, 000,000, whereas only half of  that amount had been collected from Member States.  The great problem at present was to raise enough  money for the technical assistance programme.  He thought that the problem of financing was not  insoluble. The Swedish Government was of th  opinion that technical assistance was important  morally in the field of international solidarity and  that the moral importance exceedea the importance  of the money. He suggested that National  Commissions should do all in their power to  arouse public opinion in their own countries and  appeal for funds from private sources.
(29) From the point of view of the underdeveloped  countries, it was essential that as much as  possible of the money available was spent on  projects and that the share that went to admini-  stration should be as small as possible. If the  administration was inefficient, the money would be  badly or uneconomically used. It was therefore  important to spend sufficient on administration to  ensure an efficient service. He agreed, however,  with the delegate of France that the exorbitant  administration of the total technical assistance  programme was a serious obstacle to progress.
(30) He shared the general feeling in favour of the  new system of basing the distribution of funds on  the requirements of countries requesting assistance,  and thought that decisions whether to grant aid  should be based primarily on the urgency of the  project to the country concerned. In his opinion,  however, ass.stance should not be spread out thinly.
(31) He approved the policy of greater co-ordination  at all levels and thought that better results would  be obtained if Unesco supported only well co-ordin-  ated projects. He reminded the Commission that  the scheme for technical assistance was still  flexible and that it was important not to let it  become rigid,
(32) The Swedish Government was aware that  multilateral assistance through the United Nations  and the Specialized Agencies had definite advantages  for the re:eiving countries. Bilateral agreements  were however of great value to the donor country  and supplemented assistance given on a multilateral  basis. He felt that bilateral agreements helped to  promote a two-way traffic in assistance. He  stressed that the Swedish Government did not  prefer bi ateral ag-eements to multilateral ones.
(33) Summarizing the points which the Swedish  Government thought important, he said that Unesco  should attempt to secure a stable financial basis  for technical assistance programmes, that under  the country programme the criteria of urgency and  practicability should be applied, that the admini-  stration should be efficient and the number of  committees and boards dealing with technical  assistance be reducea and, finally, that the  programme should be considered no! as expanded  but as expanding.
(34) Mr. MUJEEB (India) welcomea the emphasis  on the phrase mobilize the resources in connexion   PROGRAMME AND  with the work of Unesco, United Nations Agencies and  the Member States.
(35) The trend towards international co-operation  would be of great value. By putting the responsibility  of choice on governments, projects would be  strengthened, In view of those factors, the Indian  Government would be gratified if the higher budget  level were adopted by the General Conference.
(36) The change in emphasis to primary and  secondary school education was a natural develop-  ment which showed the success of the technical  assistance programme. There had been a gradual  adjustment of the programme to meet new  requirements,
(37) He hoped that attention would Le paid to the  amounts of money given for purchasing equipment,  to the delays in supplying equipment, and to the  selection of experts, so that a better distribution  would be achieved.
(38) Further, Unesco had freedom of action with  regard to technical assistance in cases of emergency,  and he suggested that advantage be taken of previous  experience in dealing with such emergencies.
(39) He emphasized two aspects of the pulicy of  flexibility. In the first place, there should be no  rigidity in the selecting of experts, and experts  should be given a chance of working in their own  countries. Secondly, fellowships should be granted  to students for study in their own countries.
(40) Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) associated himself  with the general opinion on the importance of the  technica! assistance programme and welcomed the  trends outlined in document 8C/5 Annex VIII,  particularly the trend towards country programmes.
(41) He agreed, however, with the delegate of  France that the document showed unreal optimism.  The gereral tone of the document suggested that  nothing was wrong, but that was obviously not so.  All Unesco documents were publicity documents,  whether intentionally or not. He suggested to the  Secretariat that it would be helpful to have a more  reas ned appraisal of the type of problems facing  technical assistance workers, and of possible  methods of solving them.
(42) He did not entirely agree with the delegate of  France about the publication of reports. He could  not agree to the publication of confidential reports,  He suggested that the Technical Assistance Depart-  ment should assemble material and write descriptions  of projects without giving details or names, and  publish a handbook on the problems in the field.  Such a handbook would be interesting and valuable  in attracting the interest of potential experts. This  suggestion might be taken up by the Secretariat in  the future,
(43) Mrs. PINTO DE VIDAL (Uruguay) recalled that  Unescc's basic efforts were directed towards the  development of human resources through education  and science, In that respect, technical assistance  had up to the present time had three means at {ts  disposal for making progress in developed and  underdeveloped countries: experts, fellowships,  and the supply of teams.
(44) According to the reports presented, governments  had chiefly requested assistance for the training of  - 309 -     BUDGET COMMISSION 1V-8  teachers, the application of modern teaching  methods, fundamental education, the training of  rural teachers, agricultural training, and  research centres; furthermore, somewhat  exceptionaliy, the Government of Guatemala had  requested aid for technical and industrial training;  aid had also been applied for in connexion with the  development of arid zones and deserts,
(45) A properly prepared teaching staff and special  teaching methods were fundamental to the task for  which Unesco was responsible, because without  teachers the raasses could not be educated.
(46) Mrs, Pinto de Vidal also considered that the  appeal for aid for the training of rural teachers  was opportune; in her country, a teacher training  institute had been set up, and 120 rural clubs for  children had been organized - similarly to what  was being done in the United States of America.
(47) It was fundamental that requests should be  made for agricultural training experts. The  speaker stressed, in that connexion, that Unesco  had worked in collaboration with FAO.
(48) She pointed out, indeed, the need for Unesco  to work in collaboration with other Specialized  Agencies of the United Nations, and referred to the  two specialized centres - ASFEC and CREFAL.  These two international centres were created in  pursuance of a resolution adopted by the General  Confereace at its sixth session. The former, the  Arab States Fundamental Education Centre, was  set up in January 1953, CREFAL devoted its  attention to remote rural zones or poverty-stricken  areas - like those parts of Uruguay known as  rancherios (ranching areas) - where it was  necessary to rehabilitate the population.
(49) She recalled that in her country education was  free, secular and compulsory; that explained why  Uruguay had, in that respect, received little help  from Unesco. Fducation should however be  extended, as illiterates still existed in Uruguay.  The Minister of Education had formed a Literacy  Commission which had carried out censuses in a  ranching area, in an agricultural area and in the  seventh section of the Department of Montevideo.
(50) Lastly, the speaker wished to refer to women  and their very special place in society as mothers  and wives, In her view, women should receive  training in how to face so great a responsibility,  and Unesco should encourage governments to pay  due attention to the education of women, so that  they might be taught the essentials of domestic  science, the bringing up of children, hygiene and  maternity. If women were trained in that way,  humanity could count it a blessing,
(51) Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia) apologized for his  late arrival in Montevideo and said that he felt it  his duty to speak at the present meeting of the  Commission, although he had not heard preceding  speakers.
(52) He felt that it would be impossible for Unesco  to implement the Charter of Human Rights when  two-thirds of the peoples of the world had not the  basic facilities for education. It was urgent  that the people for whom the Charter was  to be implemented should be rescued from  their plight.   IV-8 PROGRAMME AND
(53) In his opimon, the programme should be very  flexible, the question of priorities should be flexible  and technical assistance in terms of experts,  fellowships and equipment should be adapted to the  needs of each country.
(54) He did not criticize document 8C/5 Annex VIII,  but thought 1t should be used as a yardstick to  measure the different programmes In the different  areas.
(55) Technical assistance was very important in «  Liberia, where 90% of the population was illiterate  and there, as in most underdeveloped countries,  Unesco was judged by the success or failure of the  projects undertaken in the country. For that  reason he approved the policy of country programmes,  {56) In conclusion, he regretted that the teacher  training programme had been placed in category 2.  In his opinion it should be in category 1.
(57) Mr. BERNAL JIMENEZ (Colombia) stressed  his conviction that technical assistance was one of  the spheres :n which Unesco could carry out its  work with regard to underdeveloped countries most  effectively.
(58) When the programme of technical assistance  was initiated, Member States had to be shown what  it was. At that moment relatively few requests  were submitted by Member States; but later the  applications for technical assistance had increased  to such an extent that they had exceeded Unesco's  capacities, either in funds or in available experts.  That was a problem to which he wished to draw  attention, so that the Commission might give its  assent to any proposal calculated to help in solving it.
(59) He wished to emphasize a particularly  remarkable achievement in the field of fundamental  education, closely linked with Unesco's action - the  Educational Radio of Sutatenza, Clearly, in  underdeveloped countries like Colombia, the  fundamental education of the adult rural population  raised grave problems, Neither the State nor  individual co-operative efforts vould meet the needs  of adult rural education in countries of wide  geographical extent, especially in areas very remote  frcm urban centres; that was one of Latin America's  great problems. The activities of the Radio School  at Sutatenza were being developed as a short-term  solution to those difficulties. )  They had made peasants wish to improve  themselves by becoming literate and acquiring  general culture, as well as engaging in healthy  distractions. Approximately 300, 000 peasants in
283 parishes were taking part in the scheme, which  was organized through 8, 000 radio schools in 12  Departments, in 3 municipalities and in the State  of Trujillo in Venezuela,
(60) Every possible kind of teaching material had  been distributed to the radio schools. Special  publications had been issued, such æ the reading  and writing primer, the only one of its kind in the  world. Single-wave radio sets to the number of
5, 000 kad been acquired, at a cost of 135,000  Coiombian pesos, In addition, Accion Cultural  Popular (Popular Cultural Action) in Sutatenza was  erecting a building to accommodate workshops,  storerooms and deposituries, Electronic material  was being imported from the United States of America  - 310 -     BUNGET COMMISSION  to the value of $5C0, 000. A contract had been  signed with the firm of Philips in Holland for the  acquisition of 10, 000 radio receivers to a value of  $178,000; and 4, 000 extra radio batteries had  been imported at a cost of $54,000, A Unesco  House was aiso being built in Sutatenza so that  technicians might be lodged there,
(61) The delegate of Colombia said that both his  Government and Popular Cultural Action at  Sutatenza wished to receive fellowship holders  from other countries, whether through Unesco  technical assistance or despatched by their  respective countries, or again by arrangement  with cultural organizations or the ministries of  education concerned.
(62) The CHAIRMAN declared the general  discussion on document 8C/5 Annex VIII closed.  He asked the Commission to take a decision on the  resolutions appearing on pages 5 und 6 of the  document, examining them by groups and  beginning with resolution A, items 8 to 8.11.  Resolution A. Items 8 to 8.11
(63) Mr, ANGELL (United States of America) did  not doubt that there was justice in the criticism  voiced by the delegates of France and the United  Kingdom but he felt that it was a minor criticism.  The United States Government considered technical  assistance of the utmost importance. He moved  the adoption of the resolution.
(64) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) was in favour of  items 8 to 8.11 being adopted. He was however  dissatisfied with the text of the second paragraph  in 8. ''Noting with satisfaction .., in certain  regions", for he felt that it implied, as already  pointed out by the delegates of France and the  United Kingdom, undue optimism, He was certain  that technical assistance would contribute to  improving the living conditions in many countries,  but doubted whether it had so far achieved the  results implied in the text. He hoped that the  criticisms put forward by the delegates of France  and the United Kingdom would lead to a remodelling  of the paragraph in question.
(65) Mr, HACQUAERT (Belgium) considered  that, in order to increase the number of experts  dealing with technical assistance, their status and  remuneration should be standardized. On the last  point he underlined the danger of asking contributing  countries to cover a share of the experts' visiting  expenses, and wondered whether the text of the  resolution should not mention that problem.
(66) Mr. WARD (United Kingdem) hoped that his  remarks had not been taken as criticism of the  Expanded Programme of Technical Assistance. It  was a good programme, which would be carried  out with a share of the imperfection to be found in  all programmes. He agreed that his remarks were  of small importance. They had been suggested to  improve the reports,
(67) He supported the United States  proposal.   PROGRAMME AND
(68) Mr. FAWZI (Egypt) also supported the motion  put forward by the delegate of the United States of  America,
(69) He considered that the optimism in the text of  resolution A, item 8, should not be over-criticized,  for Unesco was a young organization and a certain  amount of optimism must therefore be permitted it;  otherwise its work might be compromised.
(76) The CHAIRMAN having asked him whether he  maintained his point of view, Mgr MAROUN said  that he did not wish to reject the proposed text  formally; it gave, however, too great an impression  that appreciable results had already been obtained,  which could hardly be the case since technical  assistance had only been in existence for three or  four years.
(71) Mr. ADISESHIAH (Director, Department of  Technical Assistance) pointed out that the paragraph  in question concerned not Unesco but the expanded  technical assistance programme of the United  Nations.
(72) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) withdrew his proposal,
(73) The CHAIRMAN proposed the adoption of  resolution A, items 8 to 8,11,
(74) Adopted.  Resolution A, Item 8.12
(75) Adopted without discussion,  Resolution A. tem 8.13
(76) Mr. LAUGIER (France) said that the French  delegation would continue to urge that social progress  and economic development be placed on an equal  footing, and that the former should not be considered  simply as a consequence of the latter.
(77) In agreement with the delegate of Pakistan, he  opposed the principle whereby social progress was  to be taken into account only in so far as it could  contribute to economic development; he deplored  the fact that certain social projects had been  rejected by technical assistance as not calculated  to promote economic progress.
(78) He therefore proposed that in the text of item
8,13 the part of the sentence reading "for the  economic development of underdeveloped countries,  paying due attention to questions of a social nature  which directly condition economic development"  should be replaced by: "for the economic develop-  ment and social p1ugress of underdeveloped  countries,
(79) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) said that the French  delegate's remarks accorded with certain  observations made by the Executive Board  concerning the social aspect of economic develop-  ment projects, particularly in relation to technical  assistance,
(80) He seconded Mr, Laugier's proposal.
(81) The amendment was supported by the delegate  of Liberia.  - 311 -     BUDGET COMMISSION IV-8
(82) Mr. BERNAL JIMENEZ (Colombia) also  supported the French proposal, He thought that  man, considered either as an individual or  collectively, was the central element and that the  economic factor ought therefore to be subordinated  to higher social interests, and not man to the  economac factor,
(83) Mr. AFTALION (Argentina) said that, in  order to evaluate the technical assistance  programme, it was necessary, as the French  delegate had said, to bear in mind its origins -  the technical assistance programme of the United  Nations Economic and Social Council. Unesco was  associated in the development of that programme,  it being understood that Unesco would be connected  with the activities which were specifically  recoramended to it. When working out the  techmcal assistance campaign, the Economic and  Social Council had classified countries on an  econonsico-social basis, and according to  quantitative criteria. In fact, on the economico-  social as on the quantitative plane, statistics of  national income, production, trade, taxes etc.  clearly reflected the various countries' stages of  development. But thence a conclusion was usually  d-awn which was far less clear, viz. that rhe  economically and socially more developed countries,  which in theory provided economic and social  assistance, must also be the most highly developed  culturally. That conclusion was far from clear,  because in the cultural field, while certain  countries might be quantitatively less developed in  the sense that they had a lower literacy percentage  or a smaller number of universities, it could not  be concluded, a priori, that such countries were  qualitatively less developed.
(84) From a number of observations made by  delegates, it would seem that the success of  certain concrete assistance activities had been  prejudiced because the experts had failed to adapt  themselves to the conditions of the recipient country.  That might be due to the fact that it had been sought  to inject cultural standards, rather as a living  organism was injected.
(85) The Argentine Republic had the greatest  respect for the philosophical, political, legal and  economic concepts of all nations. Naturally it had  its own political, legal, economic and social  concepts, which were found in the national doctrine  expounded by President Peron, But, just as  Argentina did not admit of intrusions into its own  sphere of influence, it recognized the sovereign  right of other peoples to have their own ideals,  and thus respected all philosophies.
(86) For those reasons, the Argentine delegation  would welcome the inclusion, in the draft resolution  under consideration, of a passage to the effect that  technical assistance should take due account of  national characteristics, avoiding any cultural  grafting foreign to the country involved.
(87) In addition, through general or special  activities undertaken on Unesco's initiative, a  better knowledge of the culture of underdeveloped  countries should be promoted, so that it should be  known that, from many points of view, so-called  assisted countries could and must become
1v-8 FPROGRANME AND  countries which, in their turn, gave assistance.
(86) Mr. ANGELL (United States of America) asked  whether, if the resolution were adopted, technical  assistance under the United Nations system would  be qualified.
(89) Mr. ADISESHIAH (Director, Department of  Technical Assistance) explained that the language  in item 8.13 was exactly the same as that of the  Economic and Social Council, which had asked  Unesco for co-operation. The Executive Board had  discussed the request of the Economic and Social  Council, and had asked the Director-General and  the Department of Technical Assistance to bring  the matter to the notice of the General Conference.
(90) The amendment proposed by the delegate of  France was acceptable to the Director-General  without disqualifying the technical assistance under  the United Nations system.
(91) He referred the delegate of Argentina to the  fourth paragraph of item 8, which referred to  resolution 222 of the Economic and Social Council.  ‘That reference covered the point made by the  Argentine delegate,
(92) The CHAIRMAN called for a vote on item 8.13,  with the amendment proposed by the delegate of  France.
(93) Adopted, by 41 votes in favour and 2 against.  Resolution A. Items 8.2 to 8.23
(94) The CHAIRMAN proposed that, at the beginning  of item 8. 2, the French word prie should be replaced  by invite.
(95) Mr. ESTELRICH (Spain) thought it more  suitable to leave, in the Spanish version of the draft  resolution, the word pide (requests) instead of  invita (invites), since pide (requests) had a mandatory  sense, which, in that instance, should be conveyed.
(96) In item 8.21, where it said "To submit to the  Executive Board", the following addition should be  made: "and to the Governments of Member States”,  Otherwise, Member States would only learn about  the application of the programme and its results  every two years, on the occasion of the General  Conference.
(97) Mr. BERNAL JIMENEZ (Colombia) observed  that, if the term pide (requests) were changed to  invita (invites), it would be necessary to say, in  the Spanish text, a presentar, a transmitis,  instead of que presente, que transmita.
(98) Mr, ZAMORANO HERNANDEZ (Chile) agreed  with the amendment proposed by the Spanish  delegate,
(99) In addition, he considered that in item 8, 21  the text should read: "To submit to the Executive  Board and to Member States the reports" etc.
(100) The reports which most interested Member  States were those dealing with areas where  given programmes were being carred out. He  would be interested to know, for example,  -312 -     BUDGET COMMISSION  what work ‘was being done in Latin America,
(101) The CHAIRMAN said that the suggestion by  the delegates of Spain, Colombia and Chile would  be communicated to the Drafting Committee,
(102) Mr. FAUBLAS (Haiti) did not think 1t  necessary to add to tne text of the resolution that  reports should be communicated directly tu  Member States. As the Executive Board was 1n  the future to consist of representatives of those  States, its members would be expected to  communicate reports submitted to them to their  governments,
(103) Mr. ADISESHIAH (Director, Department of  Technical Assistance) pointed out that the Executive  Board was charged by the General Conference to  look after the programme. He asked whether the  Commission was authorizing the Executive Board  to continue its responsibility. If that were the  case, he suggested that the words and to circulate  to Member States should be added after the words  "to submit to the Executive Board" in item 8, 21.  He pointed out that, if that were adopted, the cost  of publications would be substantially increased,
(104) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) considered that the  sending of special reports to Member States on  technical assistance activity raised a serious  problem, He thought it would be difficult, between  sessions of the General Conference, to prepare  certain documents for the Executive Board and  others for Member States, Documents submitted  to the Executive Board were usually communicated  to Member States for information; furthermore,  the Director-General prepared a report every  year on Unesco's activities, in which technical  assistance was covered, Mgr Maroun therefore  thought that the request put forward by the delegate  of Chile was not justified.
(105) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) said that, as the  Executive Board would consist in future of  representatives of governments, it was not enough  that only the States represented on it should  receive that information officially. For that  reascn he supported the proposal that information  should also be sent to all the other Member States.
(106) Mr. ESTELRICH (Spain) seconded the  proposal put forward by the delegate of Mexico.
(107) The CHAIRMAN asked the Commission to  vote on the text of resolution A, items 8, 2 to 8. 23,  with the addition of "and to distribute to Member  States" after "to submit to the Executive Board".
(108) Adopted by 29 votes to 9, with 2 abstentions.  Resolution B. Items 8.3 to 8. 43
(109) Mr. FAWZI (Egypt) having requested  information as to the distribution of  experts by nationality, Mr. ADISESHIAH  Director, Department of Technical  Assistance) stated that he would find that   PROGRAMME AND  information in document 8C/5 Annex VIII,  Addendum 1.
(110) The CHAIRMAN submitted items 8.3 to À, 43  to the Commission for approval.
(111) Adopted.  Resolution C. Items 8.5 to 8.512
(112) Mr. LAUGIER (France), repeating what he  had said with regard to item 8,13, asked that, in  item 8.5, social phenomena should be mentioned  alongside economic objectives. The Drafting  Committee could have discretion to alter the text,
(113) The CHAIRMAN thought that the Commission,  as it had already agreed to the alteration in principle,  would have no objection to raise,
(114) In reply to a question raised by Mgr MAROUN  (Lebanon), regarding the safeguarding of the rights  and privileges of experts mentioned in item 8.511,  the CHAIRMAN thought he could assure the Lebanese  delegate that experts seconded to technical assistance  services would lose none of their rights,
(115) Items 8.5 to 8.512 were adopted.  Resolution D. Items 8.52 to 8.524
(116) Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia) drew the attention  of the Commission to the word reduced in the  introduction to Resolution D and suggested that it  should be replaced by the word limited.
(117) That proposal was seconded by the delegates  of Iran and France and was adopted by the  Commission.
(118) Mrs. PINTO DE VIDAL (Uruguay) noted that  item 8.523 read as follows: "To employ on the  project counterpart staff who have completed their  fellowship and scholarship courses...‘ She  complained that in the Spanish text the same word,  becas, was used for both fellowships and  scholarships.
(119) Mr, SILLER (Mexico) supported the Uruguayan  delegate's observation, He thought that, although  Mr, Adiseshiah's report seemed satisfactory, the  Spanish draft left much to be desired and hoped that  that would be remedied in the future,
(120) The CHAIRMAN said that the errors in the  Spanish text would be studied by the Drafting  Committee. The latter would be asked to revise  the Spanish text of the resolutions with particular  care,
(121) He calied for a vote on resolution D,
(122) Adopted.
(123) The CHAIRMAN called for a vote on resolutions  A-D as a whole,
(124) Adopted by 37 votes i. favour,  BUDGET     COMMISSION IV-8  CONSIDERATION OF TWO DRAFT RESOLUTIONS PRESENTED BY  THE FRENCH DELEGATION
(125) The CHAIRMAN invited the Commission to  consider a draft resolution presented by the French  delegation 1n the following terms:  ‘The General Conference,  Convinc »d that the reports of technical assistance  missions, frequently evolved and drafted by  distinguished persons, contain information and  suggestions which might be of value to a large  number of Member States,  Invites the Director-General, after securing the  agreement of the Member State in which the mission  was carried out, to arrange for the publication and  dissemination of all items in reports which are of  a general interest extending beyond the State  concerned",
(126) Mr. ADISESHIAH (Director, Department of  Technical Assistance) remarked that the resolution  had received the attention of the Director-General,  Referring to the remarks which had been made  about one report, he said that the Director-  General had written to the Minister of Education in  Thailand, who refused with regret to allow its  publication. The Secretariat planned in the future  to take sections of those reports and, after  permission from the government concerned, to  publish them in pamphlet form. The Director-  General welcomed the resolution,
(127) The resolution of the French delegate was  supported by the delegates of Lebanon and the  United Kingdom.
(128) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) considered that the  French draft resolution should be considered point  by point. He agreed with Mr. Adiseshiah that  publication of the reports of missions working in  certain Member States might be extremely  inconvenient for the States concerned. Indiscretions  might arise from the publication of suck texts.
(129) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary oi the  Commission) read out the text of the resolution  once more,
(130) Mr. ADISESHIAH (Director, Department of  Technical Assistance) replied that, under the  resolution, no action would be taken by the  Secretariat until the reclassification process had  been completed.
(131) Mr, SILLER (Mexico) was uncertain of the  exact scope of the French expression en accord,  but said he would like the Spanish text to be more  explicit and contain the expression previo acuerdo  o autorizacion del Estado interesado.”
(132) Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) proposed, in  view of the preceding remarks, that no formal  resolution be passed and that the matter should be  left to the Department of Technicai Assistance for  action in light of the discussions which had taken  place.
(133) Mr. CHARYAVIBHAJ (Thailand)  supported the United Kingdom proposal.  - 313 -
(134) The CHAIRMAN thought he should not withdraw  the draft resolution from the Commission, Its text  seemed to him reasonable; it met the wishes of a  certain number of delegates, and of the Secretariat  itself.
(135) He called for a vote on it,
(136) The resolution was adopted by 31 votes in  favour with 3 abstentions.
(137) The CHAIRMAN then submitted a second draft  resolution presented by the French delegation,  as follows:  "The General Conference,  Desiring to ensure a maximum re*.cn from the  funds devoted to technical assistance,  Perturbed by the number of channels through  which, successively or simultaneously, the study  and administration of technical assistance projects  of the United Nations and Specialized Agencies are  passing,  Invites the Director-General:
(1) To propose to the higher authorities of the  United Nations, on every feasible occasion at joint  meetings, that all measures calculated to expedite  procedures for study and action, and to reduce the  percentage of administrative expenditure in  technical assistance services, be examined and  implemented ir the shortest possible space of time;
(2) To endeavour, so far as Unesco is concerned,  to stabilize and if possible reduce the administrative  expenditure involved in technical assistance;
(3) To report to the next General Conference on  the progress made in this connexion".
(138) Mr. ADISESHIAH, speaking on behalf of the  Director-General, remarked, in connexion with the  procedure for technical assistance, that at present a  Member State drew up a year's programme and  forwarded it to the Technical Assistance Board for  approval. Under the French proposal the Admini-  strative Committee on Co-ordination, a committee  independent of the technical assistance programme,  was to be asked to give advice, That seemed  unpractical, .
(139) In connexion with stability and the reduction of  administrative costs, only $390,000 from the total  budget would be used for administration, That  amounted to about 12% of the total budget. He  warned the Cornmission that the expanded programme  activities were already being subsidized from the  regular programme, Unfortunately the Advisory  Committee on Programme and Budget had not had  time to examine Headquarters' costs, but the  Department of Technical Assistance was running  at minimum cost,  BUDGET     COMMISSION
(140) He requested the delegate of France not to  press his resolution and gave his assurance that,  if the resolution were withdrawn, the Department of  Technical Assistance would take into account what  had been said during the debate.
(141) Mr. LAUGIER (France), having heard  Mr. Adiseshiah's arguments, and in order to meet  the point with regard to efficiency, withdrew his  draft resolution, He felt, hcwever, that the  discussions to which the matter had given rise had  not becñ fruitless, and that a current of opinion in  favour of curbing bureaucratic procedures had  been created,
(142) Mr. ADISESHIAH (Director, Department of  Technical —ssistance) drew the attention of the  Commission to three reports, brought to the  General Conference by three delegations, which  described projects being undertaken in their  countries, He thought that it was a good policy  to encourage governments to publish the results  of projects.
(143) He further drew attention to the invitations  which had been extended by the delegates of  Pakistan, Philippines and Ceylon to foreign experts  to visit projects in their countries.
(144) He had noted that the Commission would like  futvre reports to contain information concerning  the failures of Unesco in technical assistance. He  pointed out that the document on the programme  and budget could not emphasize failures and that  document 8C/5 Annex VIII aad been designed for  the Technical Assistance Board and the Technical  Assistance Committee, However, he would bear  in mind the wishes of the Commission and include  a section which wou d tone down the optimism of  those documents.
(145) Secondly, he noted the wish of the Commission  that experts should concentrate on training activities,
(146) He assured the delegate of Thailand that his  Government's request for further techniral  assistance had been accepted by the Director-General.
(147) He would take note of the remarks made by  delegates concerning flexibility in the field of  technical assistance.
(148) He concluded by saying that in 1955 there  would be 200 experts and 800 counterpart staff in  the field, It had been said two weeks ago of the  pilot projects in Bolivia: ''our children are being  trained to know what Bolivia wants and what the  world wants". That was a good omen for Unesco.  A further quotation might reflect the aims of  technical assistance: "We look to the programme  for telescoping into a decade what other countries  have had centuries to do''.  The meeting rose at 1.30 p.m.  - 314 -