n-10 GENERAL  there were persons to be elected to the Board. He  also asked whether candidates not proposed in plenary  session by the Nominations Committee would be  eligible.
(18) M'. RUIZ-GIMINEZ felt that the General Com-  mitte* should decide and give a lear indication  couce.‘ning the form of the election. With regard to  geogriphical distribution, he thought that the best  distribution possible should be aimed at but that no  mathen'atical formula could be established, That  was more a matter for the Nominations Committee  than for the General Committee, as all Member  States were represented on the former but not on the  latter.
(20) Mr. SHARIF, referring to geographical distri-  bution, also thought that it concerned the Nominations  Committee rather than the General Committee, and  that the former should be given all possible informa-  tion (e. g. ns to precedents), with a view to assisting  it in its work. As for the method of election, he felt  that the Legal Committee's opinion should be sought,  having regard to the problems which had been raised  by the Japanese delegate.
(21) Mr. KABIR recalled that it would be difficult to  consider in advance the best form of geographical  distribution, seeing that candidates could be nomi-  nated up to the last moment in the plenary meeting  itself. He expressed the hope that on the following  Friday ideas could be clarified and a practical  decision arrived at.    COMMITTEE
(22) Mr. AWAD asked what kind of report was  expected from the Legal Committee. H it were simply  a question of the legal aspect of the method of election,  he saw no great difficulty. In any case, he asked that  the request should be expressed in a concrete form,
(23) Mr. MIGONE, with a view to avoiding a debate  by the Nominations Committee, proposed an unafficial  meeting of heads af delegations in order to deal with  the matter of the Board's election.
(24) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) recalled that, for  Friday's meeting, the Secretariat would supply the  information for which it had been asked concerning  the question of geographicel distribution.
(25) The questions which the General Committee re-  ferred to the Legal Committee were as follows:  (a) Validity of ballot papers containing fewer names  than there were persons to be elected (Rule 14 of the  Rules for the Conduct of Elections by Secret Ballot);  (b) Eligibility of candidates not nominated by the  Nominations Committee (Rule 85, paragraph 2, of the  Rules of Procedure of the General Conference);  (c) Discrepancy between Article IV 8(a) of the  Constitution and Rule 89 of the Rules of Procedure of  the General Conference, with regard to the majority  required for election on a second ballot.  The meeting rose at 10 a.” .,  TENTH MEETING
3 December 1954 at 9 a.m.  Chairman: Mr. ZAVALA MUNIZ (Uruguay)  REPORTS OF THE CHAIRMEN OF CONNISSIONS AND  COMMETTEES
(1} Mr. BOURGEOIS said that the work of the Pro-  gramme and Budget Commission was proceeding  slowly. In fact, the Commission was at the moment  in a very difficult position and its only possible course  was to hold nigat meetings. Although the time ellowed  to speakers had been reduced to three minutes, the  study of Part II of the programme was still far from  finished, and the discussion of chapter 4 (Cultural  Activities) had not been completed. The situation was  due to the fact that the Commission had been unable  to begin its work until the provisional budget ceiling  had been adopted and the report on methods of finan-  cing the programme drawn up. A week had passed  at the beginning of the session without the Compr :s-  sion's being able to hold a meeting. Mr. Bou geois    stressed that appropriate measures should be taker  to enable the Commission in future to begin its wort  not later than three days after the opening of the Con-  ference. It was very unfortunate that it should be  necessary, as at present, to limit the time allowed  for speeches, when the purpose of delegates’ attending  the Conference was to make known their views. Every-  thing possible should be done to ensure that a similar  situation did not arise in the future.  {2) Mr. Bourgeois also mentioned tha! the Commis-  sion had unanimously adopted, by acclamation, a draft  resolution on peaceful co-operation, presented jointly  by the United States of America, Indis and Czechoslo-  vakia (document 8C/DR/115).
(3) Finally, he said, the Commission would like to  refer project 3. 4 (Social science and problems of  international understanding and tensions) back to the  Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget. The  - 258 -   GENERAL  Commission considered that the budget estimates and  plans for the project were not satisfactorily balanced.
(1) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES said that the Advisory  Committee had completed its work in connexion with  tte remodelling of the fuiure programme, and the  report it had prepared would probably be considered  by the Programme and Budget Commission early in  the following week.
(5) The Advisory Committee would also meet early  in that week to adapt the programme to the approved  budget. He assumed that the Secretariat would sub-  mit a certain number of proposals on the matter.
(6) Turning to the request made to the Advisory  Committee by the Chairman of the Programme and  Budget Commission, he recalled that the Committee  had already expressed its views. Those views had  not, it appeared, met with the Commission's approval,  and it was hardly logical for the Commission to turn  again to the Advisory Committee for more advice.
(7) Mr. KABIR said that all delegations were con-  cerned at the slow progress being made at the  Conference. In order to expedite matters at the  present session and more particularly at future ses-  sions of the General Conference, he wished to make  the following suggestions:  (a) the budget ceiling should be established at the  beginning of the Conference so as to ensure that full  use was made of the advice of the Advisory Committee  on Programme and Budget;  (b) there was no need to vote on all the paragraphs  of the programme and budget: voting should be con-  fined to the amendments tu resolutions and budgetary  items;  (c) delegates should be requested to keep to the  agreed time-limits for their statements, which would  thus become clearer and more re.evant to the matter  under discussion;  (d) it should be possible to dis:uss certain acti-  vities, for example, mass communicationand cultural  relations, simultaneously.
(8) Mr. BOURGEOIS pointed out to the General  Committee that it might be helpful to set up working  parties like that established the previous day to deal  with the scientific and cultural history of mankind.
(8) He also wished to mention tha: the secretarial  and interpreting staff available for Russian was very  limited. That staff was consequently overworked,  and something should be done to avcid a repetition of  the difficulty at later sessions.
(10) Mr. Bourgeois agreed with the Chairman of the  Advisory Cummittee on Programme and Budget that  it was scarcely possible to have the same questions  studied by the Committee several times. The Pro-  gratème and Budget Commission ‘would therefore  discuss the decisions to be made with regard to  project 3. 4 without referring back to the Advisory  Committee.
(11) Finally, he said if it was coasidered assirable  to limit the time allotted to spes.kers in a particular  Commission, delegates should »e informed, at the  opening of the Conference, about the decisions made.
(12) Mr. SHARIF said that the question of future  procedure had already been discussed on several    COMMITTEE IN-10  occasions and there were many conflicting views on  the subject. In his opinion, the Secretariat should  prepare a note with proposals for the best and moat  expeditious form af procedure and circulate it to  Member States with a view to its being adopted at the  earliest opportunity.
(13) With regard to the present session, he proposed  tha! the umber of delegations wishing to speak should  not be restricted, but that they should speak only on  resolutions and specific paragraphs; no more general  discussion should be allowed.
(14) Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS said that he had had  occasion to be present at several meetings of the  Programme and Budget Commission and had noted a  subtle correlation between the work of that Commis-  sioa and the prospect of election to the Executive  Bourd. In orde ‘ to remedy thet situation, it might be  useful, he thought, to make the work of the Nomina-  tions Committee precede that of the Commission.
(15) Secondly, he submitted the following draft  resolution:  "That the General Conference instructs the Execu-  tive Board to study the problem o. the organization  of the ninth session !n order to determine ways of  curtailing the length of the Conference as a whole and  of improving the efficiency and expediting the work of  the main Commission".
(1€) The preamble to the resolution could contain a  tribute to the Chairman of the Programme and Budget  Commission and to the interpreters serving with it,
(17) Mr. BOURGEOIS considered that it would be  unwise to try to fix a final budget ceiling at the  beginning of the Conference. Such a course would  involve the danger of having to give up highly impor-  tant projects for the lack of a few hundred dollars.  The disadvantages of fi: .ng too rigid limits at the  beginning of a session had been experienced in the past.
(18) Mr. Bourgeois urged once again the advisability  of distributing work among several study groups.  (.9) It was not always possible to avoid general dis-  cussions on the whole of a chapter or section. Certain  delegates might have views to express on adjustments  that they thought should be made between the different  sections in one chapter, or the projects in one section.
(20) Mr. VERONESE seconded the United Kingdom  Jelegate's proposal that the Executive Board be  invited to consider means of avoiding, at later sessions  of the General Conference, the current difficulties due  to shortcomings in the organization of the work. He  also hoped that the Executive Board would be invited  to undertake the study in the near future, before the  recollection of the difficulties had had time to fade.
(21) As far as the current session was concerned,  Mr. Veronese considered that the only means of  helping the Programme and Budget Commission out of  its difficulties was to give the Chairman all the powers  he required to speed up the discussions as he thought  fit.
(22) Mr. KABIR supported the proposal of the  representative of the United Kingdom and again  emphasized the desirability of fixing the budget  ceiling at the beginning of the Conference.  - 259 -   m-10 GENERAL
(23) Mr. HAGUIWARA asked the meeting to confine  itself for the moment to discussing the organization  of Work at the current session and to leave until later  any proposals about the organization of work at future  sessions.
(24) The CHAIRMAN called for a vote on the report  of the Chairman of the Programme and Budget Com-  mission and on the motion, proposed by the Uuited  Kingdom und seconded by Italy, that the Executive  Board be instructed to draw up regulations for the  conduct of the Programme and Budget Commission's  debates. ;
(25) Both motions were approved.  PROGRAMME OF WORK FRON ? TO 12 DECEMBER  (document 8C/BUR/3)
(26) Referring to document 8C/BUR/3, which in his  opinion required some amendment, Mr. MAHEU gave  the Secretariat's views on the conduct of work up to  the end of the session. He explained that, although  Parts I, Ill and IV of the draft programme had  already bean discussed by the Administrative Com-  mission, it was logical that they should also be  submitted to the Programme and Budget Commission  for consideration, since that Commission had to  prepare the appropriation resolution.
(27) The Secretariat had thought that time could be  saved by having the budgetary adjustments examined  by the Advisory Committee on Programme and Bud-  get, which would then report to the Programme  Commission. With regard to the report on the future  programme, in the opinion of the Secretariat it should  not be considered by the Programme and Budget  Commission until all the discuasions about the draft  programme for 1955-56 were cover.
(28) Finally, the Secretariat suggested that the re-  port of the Legal Committee be submitted direct to  the General Conference in plenary meeting without  passing through the Administrative Commission.
(29) Document 8C/BUR/3 was adopted, with the  amendments suggested by Mr. Maheu.  - 260 -     COMMITTEE  REPORT OF THE LEGAL COMMITTEE ON THE PROCEDURE  FOR THE ELECTION OF MEMBERS OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD  {document 8C/JUR/S)
(30) Mr. AWAD said that the question which had  been reterred to the legal Committee was that of he  legal aspects of election procedure. The Committee  had noted an obvious disparity between the provisiots  of the Constitution and the Organization's Rules of  Procedure in that matter, and had decided to alter  the Rutes of Procedure in accordance with those of  the United Nations.
(31) Mr. SABA commented briefly on the report.
(32) Following a remark by Mr. HAGUIWARA, a dis-  cussionbeganonwhether the report should, as Mr.  Mzaeuhad suggested, be submittedtothe plerary mee-  ting without first being studied by the Administrative  Commission.
(33) Mr. KABIR observed that the General Com-  mitteé had already taken a decision on that point, and  there was no need to go back to it.
(34) As Mr. Kabir's statement was contested, Mr.  MAHEU pointed out that the Legal Committee was  not a subsidiary organ of the Administrative Commis-  sion. It had sometimes reported to that Commission  on certain questions, but that was because of the  nature of the questions concerned and not because of  any obligations resulting from precise links. There  was therefore no reason of principle why the Com-  mittee's report should not go direct to the plenary  meeting, and the Secretariat considered that it would  be preferable to have cnly one discussion on the  report.
(35) The question was put to the vote, and it was  decided that the report of the Legal Committee should  be sent direct to the plenary meeting.
(36) Mr. MONTAGNIER said that the plenary meeting  - at whichthe Legal Committee's report wouldbe studied  could take place on Monday, 6 December, at the begin-  ning of the afternoon, before the Nominations Committee  met.  The meeting rose at 10 a.m.