IV-3 PROGRAMME AND  improvements and modifications - provided they  did not conflict with the general outline and prin-  ciples - assistance from experts would be invaluable,
(99) Finally, he supported the delegate of Denmark's  proposal to extend the time limit for submission of  proposals by delegates.
(100) Mr, SANDOVAL VALLARTA (Mexico)  observed that one of the main difficulties with which  the Organization had always had to contend was the  disparity between the funds available and the pro-  gramme, In the present case there was a disparity  between the amount of time available and the pro-  gramme, Considering that the United States  proposal would reduce that disparity, he would  support it and moved that it be put to the vote,
(101) Mr, FAUBLAS (Haiti) suggested that, before  a vote was taken, the two parts of the United States  proposal be separated, since, as the French  delegate had pointed out, at least one part deserved  consideration.
(102) In view of the short time available to the  Commission, Mr, ARSENAULT (Canada) did not  see what advantage there could be in reconsidering  projects which had already been thoroughly  examined, He would vote therefore for the  proposal of the United States delegate,
(103) Mr. ANGELL (United States of America)  thanked the delegate of India for his clarification,  He approved the proposals of the delegate of  Denmark and said that he would have no objection  to the discussion of the programme in two parts,
(104) Mr, FLORKIN (Belgium) reminded the  meeting that he nad suggested fixing two dates for  discussion, corresponding to the two groups of  chapters,    BUDGET COMMISSION
(105) The CHAIRMAN sugested that noon on  Monday, 22 November, be fixed as the deadline for  delegations to submit their requests to speak on the  first three chapters - Education, Natural Sciences  and Social Sciences,
(106) Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS (United Kingdom),  on a poirt of order, said that a vote should first be  taken on his proposed amendment, which was as  follows: first, the Commission should proceed with  a general discussion; and, second, the United  States delegate's proposal should be referrea to the  General Committee of the Conference to consider,  in the light of the discussion, its practical applica-  tion and its effect on the time schedule of the Con-  ference,
(107) A vote was taken, and the result was 23 votes  in favour, 23 votes against, with 6 abstentions,
(108) Mr. KABIR (India) pointed out that the first  part of the amendment was not in fact amending any  proposal, since no objection had yet been made to the  holding of a general discussion.
(109) It was agreed that the second part of the amend-  ment was the point on which a decision was needed,
(11¢) Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS (United Kingdom)  reformulated his proposal as follows:  “That the United States delegate's proposal be re-  ferred to the General Committee of the Conference  to consider, in the light of the discussion, first, its  practical application and, secondly, its effect on the  tirne schedule of the Conference, "
(111) The proposal was adopted by 25 votes to 19  with 4 abstentions.  The meeting rose at 12.45 p.m.  THIRD MFETING
18 November 1954 at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman: Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland)  ITEM 8.2 OF THE REVISED AGENDA: CONSIDERATION OF THE  REPORT OF THE ADVISORY COXMITTEE AND GENERAL  DISCUSSION OF THE DRAFT F ROGRAMME AND BUDGET FOR
(1) Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS (United Kingdom)  thanked the Chairman and the Executive Board for  the excellent documentation supplied to the Com-  mission and the Director-General for the extremely  helpful statement he had nade at the morning  meeting, and commended the report of the Advisory    Committee, Assuming that the Commission was  realy to start on a general discussion, he would  make some brief comments.
(2) Firstly, the opinion of the United Kingdom  delegation with regard to the proposed programme  was based on the fact that it considered that the  Unesco Secretarial, in association with the Member  States, was trying to carry out the aims to which  the Organization was pledged in its Constitution.  In that connexion, he thought that, if success was  to be achieved, the most important contribution  - 278 -   PROGRAMME AND  must come from Member States themselves.
(3) Secondly, in its comments on the various  projects, the United Kingdom delegation, while  appreciating the proposals made on both the higher  and lower budget levels as well as those contained  in the various resolutions which had been submittecl  by Member States, would apply only one standard,  That standard would be one of merit. He had been  heartened by the statement that no priority would be  attached to the location of any proposed project.
(4) Thirdly, the United Kingdom delegation would  apply the criterion of relevance to the aims and  objectives of Unesco, It would not consider projects  relevant if they covered a field of activity which was  in the sphere of another Organization,  {5) Fourthly, his delegation was imerested in  maintaining the balance between fundamental educa-  tion and intellectual co-operation. He warned  against accepting new cultural responsibilities at  the expense of neglecting Unesco itself, It was  important to the work of Unesco for the staff of the  Secretariat to have contact with the best in human  intellect and intelligence,
(6) Fifthly, the United Kingdom delegation would  approach with a critical eye the grants to non-  governmental organizations. In its opinion, Unesco  should only give assistance to those non-governmental  organizations which could prove that their existence  was justified and which had the support of their  members.
(7) Mr. RIVET (France) wished to make a few  remarks on behalf of his delegation,
(8) He recalled that Uvesco had made substantial  progress in co-ordinating previously disjointed  efforts in the fields in which it was interested, and  went on to stress that Unesco should above all act  as an instigator or catalytic agent. It could and  must intervene in countries where deficiencies had  been noticed, but it should not assume responsibili-  ties which fell within the competence of autonomous  organizations playing a role which Unesco could not  fulfil entirely; in every instance where Unesco's  efforts had failed, it was because attempts already  made had been abandoned too quickiy.
(9) The delegate of France saw no reason why the  Unesco programme should not be divided into two  parts, permanent activities and technical aid  activities, provided that those who drew the pro-  gramme up did not lose sight of the vital link  between the two categories. Those responsible for  permanent activities could give very useful help to  those dealing with technical aid, and vice versa.
(10) On the other hand, Mr. Rivet thought it ex-  tremely regrettable to reserve no more than 33%  of the Unesco budget for permanent activities, while  any additional resources would be devoted to  technical aid, He recalled that Unesco's most  substantial achievements had been in the fields of  the Natural Sciences, the Humanities and Social  Sciences. In his view, certain organizations, such  as the Internztional Council for Philosophy and  Humanistic Studies, should not have the same  credits but be given increased funds,
(11) With regard to the second part of the pro-  gramme, the delegate of France considered that  the term "technical aid" was ill-chosen, "aid"  BUDGET     COMMISSION IV-3  implied "charity". But, as the Director-General had  pointed out, the needs of underdeveloped countries  were not only of a material kind, but were cc. sider-  able at the social and intellectual levels, Mr. .livet  thought that the term "human solidarity" would be  more appropriate,
(12) Furthermore, the delegate of France wished  to know whether Unesco would give ear to Member  States! requests, or whether it would itself make  suggestions to them. He considered that, in order  to help the States concerned to the greatest extent  possible, and to avoid wasting money, Unesco  should make a careful, impartial and all-embracing  choice excluding all political considerations,
(13) In addition, Mr. Rivet regretted that two af  Unesco's vital tasks, education for international  understanding and education for living in a world  community, had not been sufficiently stressed in  the programme.
(14) The delegate of France favoured the creation  of an international school. The public must be  made to understand that great hopes lay in Unesco  as a means of securing lasting peace,
(15) Mr, THA HLA (Union of Burma) welcomed the  new presentation of the budget and indicated his  general agreement with the Director-General's  remarks, He supported the higher budget level but  cid not consider that it was sufficiently high for the  work of Unesco to be truly effective, There was  tou much concentration of effort and not sufficient  concentration of resources. He hoped that the  great nations, such as the United States of America  and the United Kingdom, would approve the higher  budget level and, in so doing, take over the res-  ponsibilities of the less fortunate nations, which  could not find the means to undertake the urgent  tasks facing them, He outlined the points in the  programme which his Government considered  important, namely, cultural exchange, ihe pooling  of technical knowledge in the building of cultural  institutions ali over the world, the translation of  literary and philosophical works and participation  of the masses in the highest forms of cuiture,  Emphasis on such features would make for inter-  national understanding and peace, Burma, although  having only very small economic resources, upheld  the philosophy of kindness, helpfulness and peace,  {16) Mr. KABJR (India) thought that the crucial  point raised by the Director-General was decentral-  ization. If decentralization or regionalism was to  be interpreted as dividing the offices of Unesco  amongst the various regions of the world, it would  be harmful, but, if it was to be interpreted as  meaning regionalizing the programme of Unesco,  it would be beneficial, Priorities were not the  same in each country and should be determined by  the requirements of each individual country.  Referring to the two resolutions submitted by  India on the subject of dec=niralization, he said  that objection had been made to the setting up of  "regional offices", and explained that what the  Indian Government wanted to see established were  area offices under any name,
(17) Referring to the remark by the delegate of  Burma that the budget was not sufficient to meet  - 279 -   IV=3 PROGRAMME AND  the needs of Uneaco, he pointed out that, however  big the budget was, it would never be big enough  to do ali that Unesco would like to do or ought to  do, The question of remuneration of primary  school teachers should be treated as one of great  urgency, but, as long as the budget was inadequate  to meet the urgent programme requirements of  Unesco, it would be impossible to tackle such a  task. The programme had of necessity to be  selective and Unesco should use its resources to  stimulate interest in projects which, once started,  would be carried on by their own momentum and  the interest of the communities affected, He fully  supported the higher budget level and pointed out  that the additional money required to carry out the  programme under that level could be found from  the contributions of the new Member States,
(18) With regard to the permanent services, he  warned against economizing at the expense of  efficiency. He advocated greater use of National  Commissions in carrying out projects.
(19) He agreed with the Director-General that  greater efforts were required, but asked the  Commission to remember that it took time to see  and evaluate results and advised against too  stringent criticism of work in hand,
(20) He did not think that the subject of inter-  national understanding should be treated under a  separate heading in the programme, International  understanding should be the controlling spirit of  Unesco in all branches of its work starting with  the very young. The same spirit should permeate  all work concerring the exchange of persons,  {21) Finally, he wondered if it might be advisable  to consider the question of priorities area by area.
(33) Mrs. PINTO DE VIDAL (Uruguay) said that  she would be speaking more in her capacity as a  school-teachar with wide experience than as  government delegate, She wished to comment on a  few points raised by the Director-General at the  morning meeting, In the first place she considered  that international understanding had heen watered  down in all spheres, The idea should be started  In the home and continued at school. In Uruguay,  streets were named after outstanding foreigners  or foreign achievements, children were taught to  sing the songs of other countries and in the schools  learned about other countries! heroes, The  Junior Red Cross was very active and included  millions of young people throughout the world,  In that field, Unussco had given assistance in  various forms, International understanding was  the responsibility of every country. It was better  to work along those lines than to found an inter-  national school, from which only a few pupils  would draw benefit.
(23) Secondly, with regard to school curricula and  an advisory committee thereon - a theme raised by  the Director-General she considered that’  education was a national responsibility, Each  courtry knew its own problems and needs,  An acvisory committee on curricula would  bave to take into account tie particular charac-  teristics of each people, for example, the largn  number of children living in rural areas in many  countries,  BUDGET     - 280 -  COMMISSION
(24) Thirdly, she did not know exactly what the  Director-General had said about the centres at  Patzcuaro and Sirs-el-Layyan, But the speaker  considered that those centres must be given more  help than they had received up to the present,  They had & great deal of work and their usefulness  was incalculable,
(25) Very often school-teachers in rural areas had  neither good schools nor appropriate equipment,  They were not paid as they should be, Their  material position must be improved and their  training and professional prestige raised. Uruguay  had set up a teachers' trsininrg school for rural  school teachers, It was in the heart of the country  and was thus in touch with the surroundings in  which those teachers would later work.
(26) The Director-General's statement had  emphasized the importance of literacy and funda-  mental education, It was a great misfortune to  be unable to road or write. Unesco must devote  large resourc:s and show more interest in that  field. It served to raise the living standards of  the people. Uruguay had been asked to send school  material and to help repair the damage caused by  war, notably in Korea. They had done all they  could to rep:y to that call and continued to take  interest in the matter,
(27) The s::eaker said that in her view cultural  exchanges were uscful and would bear fruit. But  a watch should be kept over the way in which they  functioned; it would be desirable to organize and  make a cloge study of the time which fellowship  holders saould give up to their travel and studies.  She mentioned the case of a group of teachers who  had arrived in Uruguay and had stayed there three  months; later they had gone on to Argentina where  they reraained six months, The length of those  stays was perhaos excessive, and it might be that  detailed and carefully studied preparation would  help to avoid drawbacks of the kind, The speaker  recelled how she had taken part in the San Francisco  Confer ence, when there were great hopes in the  work of the United Nations. Tcday it could be  affirnied that those hopes ware well-founded and  as far as concernad the cultural undertaking em-  bodied in Unesco had borne fruit.
(28) Mr. CHEN CHI-PAO (China) considered that  the rew programme was an improvement on past  programmes and that it pointed the way to even  bettar future programmes. The Chinese delegation  felt that Unesco was overburdened with different  typos of activities and it would welcome simplifica-  tion in that respect. Unesco should only undertake  the type of activity which it alone could discharge and  should act as a co-ordinating body for other types of  activity which could be handled by other agencies, for  example, non-governmental organizations assisted  by Unesco, or National Commissions, The impres-  s‘on shouldbe avoided that Unesco was omnipotent and  had unlimitad resources, Other agencies receiving  assistance from Unesco, which could carry out work  for Unesco, should be calied upontodo so, A fairer  distribution of tasks would lead to better co-operation  and relationship between the agencies of Unesco.
(29) More emphasis should be put on three groups  of people - teachers, youth and women, At present   PROGRAMME AND  insufficisnt attention was given to mobilizing those  three groups to carry out the objectives of Unesco.
(30) He would also like to see more emphasis put  on tte universality of culture, It was necessary  to empuasize eastern culture as being equal to  western culture. The East showed more readiness  to study Western culture than did the West,  Eastern culture. Western culture formed the core  of the present programme and Eastern culture  was only being used for reference purposes. The  East was underdeveloped from a technical point of  view but had much to offer the world in matters of  ethics, philosophy, etc. The fault wea on both  sides, the West being unwilling to study the culture  of the East and the East failing to present its case  to the West.
(31) With regard io technical aid, he thought that  the word technical was inndequate, an a two-way  traffic was essential. Material aid was of more  value than personal nid.
(32) Mr. PAIK (Korea) said that he had been  moved by the remarks made by the delegate of  Uruguay concerning his country and thanked the  Director-General for the references he had made  in his statement. He pointed out that an amergency  was of the highest priority but that Korea was not  included in the emergency assisience programme.  Korea had only consultative relaticas with the  United Nations Korean Reconstruction Agency, but  Korea as a Member State of Unesco had a right to  participate in the programme. He asked whether  the Commission would recommend providiog the  Un..ed Nations Korean Reconstruction Agency with  a new impetus for implementing its rehabilitation  programme in Korea by including Korea in the  programme for emergency assistance, The Korean  delegation thanked all Member States for the help  which they had extended to Korea.
(33) He supported the higher budgetary level for  the programme for 1955-56.
(34) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) pointed out  that the work of the Programme Commission con-  sisted of putting the pi'oposed programme into a  form which would be scceptable to the General  Conference, and suggsted that the Commission  should limit itself to that field. The programme  had gone through various important stages before  appeacing in its present draft form. The Secre-  tariat, Director-Gen-ral and Executive Board had  considerable experience in the execution of previous  programmes, and hsd contacted Member States in  their preparation,
(35) The process o“ consulting Member States was  an important stage, without which the General  Conference could rot pioperly discharge its res-  ponsibilities. The Dir‘actor-General had already  obtained infor mation regarding the requirements  of the various Member States before putting his  programme into draft form; which being so, the  programme sho ild be acceptable to the General  Conference,
(36) On that understanding, a programme accept-  able to the Ge'1eral Conference would bv n coherent  reflection of views which came from decantralized  areas, and waich had been channelled through the    BUDGET COMMISSION 17-3  central body of Unesco, The problem of regivnaliza-  tion or decentralization was not purely a matter of  administration or of rearranging the programme,  but essentially determined the efficiency of the  General Conference and of Unesco.
(37) Mr. WIDDOWSON (Union of South Afri.)  congratulated the Director -General on the compila-  tion of the programme, With regard to ‘he projects  affecting South Africa, he pointed out that the Com-  mittee for Technical Ce -operation in Africa south  of the Sahara had alrendy built up a good record of  WOLn Q CO-OFS: nisvu, And he wondered whether  Unesco woul i not be advised to channel its proposed  project. through that committee, In the interests  of econ. «y and efficiency Unesco should consult  the cor .-/ (ttee before undertaking any projects in  Afric. south of the Sahara, The South African  Government considered it undesirable to start  activities unless it was certsin that they cculd be  implemented, His Government was not opposed to  projects being undertaken fn the South Saharan  region, but felt that the resources would be better  used, if consideration wece given to the desirability  of consulting with the Committee for Technical  Co-operation in Africa south of the Sahara,
(38) Mr. SILLER (Me cico) said that his Govern-  ment, the Ministry of Education and the National  Commission believed that the proposed programme  and budget presented. by the Director-General for
1955-56 should be supported, because of its  structure, and becr.use of the balance it maintained  between general and special activities, The  Mexican Government had helped and would continue  to help in projects carried out by Unesco in  Mexico, and would abovz all assist the Fundamental  Education Centre at Patzcuaro. In the speaker's  view, the success of programmes depended upon a  good choice cf experts and fellowship hclders.  Technicians and experts should be selected who had  a good knowledge of the country that they were  visiting, and who were scquainted with its special  conditiors, possibilities and limitations. It was not  enough that an expert be competent unless he had a  dus krowle<ige of his field of work, The Mexican  Government was favourably impressed by the  inter esting and important chapters dealing with  generyl activities, There was no reason for 1 educing  the budget; it should on the contrary be increased  wherever the importance and urgency of the pro-  gramme required it. His delegation would there-  fore support the "higher budgetary level".
(38) Mr. ABEYWICKREMA (Ceylon) associated  himself with the remarks already made with regard  to the clarity of the programme, He regretted that  the studies of tha school curriculum and of the  humid tropical zone had been poutponed on the  recommendation of the Advisory Committee, and  hoped that the Commission would reverse that  decision,
(40) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL, referring to the  intervention of the deleyyate of Uruguay, said that  thers appeared to be sonie misvaderstanding. The  policy of the Secretariat was io put more funds  - 281 -   IV-4 PROGRAMME AND  from the normal budget at the disposal of the two  existing fundamental education centres, The  Secretariat did not think Unesco should start  centres of that type elsewhere, but was ready to  support national efforts, It would also support a  centre serving two or three countries having the  same language, That was his recommendation,
(41) The Director-General assuced the delegate  of South Africa that it was the policy of the    BUDGET COMMISSION  Secretariat to consult the Committee for Technical  Co-operation south of the Sahara. He would be  pleased to follow the suggestion to channel certain  projects through that Committee, if it was for  comments only.  The meeting rose at 5,20 p.m.  FOURTH MEETING
19 November 1954 at 10 a.m.  Chairman: Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland)  ITEM 8.3 OF THE REVISED AGENDA: CONSIDERATION OF THE  REPORT OF THE ADVISORY COMMITTEE AND GENERAL  UISCUSSION OF TUE DRAFT PROGRAMME AND BUDGET FOR
(1) The CHAIRMAN stated that the General Com-  mittee had examined the proposal of the United  States delegation, submitted to it by the Commis-  sion the previous day. The General Committee  had requested delegates to let the Chairman of the  Commission have a list, for his guidance, of the  items which they wished to discuss; delegates  » ould tell how to assign priorities to those various  items, by referring to the classification system  adopted by the Advisory Committee on Programme  and Budget.
(2) The Chairman also called on the specialists  concerned to comraunicate with the appropriate  Directors of Departments in person, in order to  arrange informal talks with them, during which  they might consider ways of carrying out resolu-  tions in the draft programme,
(3) Mr. LAUGIER (France) wanted an assurance  that the questions which had not been given a high  priority would not be overlooked altogether, He  thought that it would be best to assign priorities  in order of time,
(4) The CHAIRMAN emphasized that the priorities  mentioned by delegates were intended for guidance  only, and should be in no way restrictive, All  that it was required to know was how much im-  portance delegates attached to a particular question,
(5) Replying to a question from Mr, PANNETON  (Canada), the CHAIRMAN explained that delegates  were in no way bound to observe the priorities  suggested by the Advisory Committee.
(6) After a statement by Mr. FAWZI (Egypt), the  CHAIRMAN remarked that he sew no reason to set    a time-limit for speeches during the morning's  discussion,
(7) Mr, SPILHAUS (United States of America)  expressed his delegation's great appreciation of  the work done by the Director-General, the  Secretariat, the Executive Board and the Advisory  Committee, particularly on the difficult problem  of achieving a balance between general and special  activities in the programme. While sharing the  general approval of the programme expressed by  the majority of members, he had the following  comments to make on behalf of his Government,
(8) The first point he wished to stress was the  desirability of seeing the remodelled programme  put into operation, With regard to the programme  of 1855-56, he believed that it could be strengthened  and that the increased services necessitated by the  addition of Member States could be provided with  little or no increase in the tctal assessment as  compared with 1853-54, and perhaps even some  reduction, He supported the opinion expressed  by certain delegates that broadened participation  in Unesco would strengthen support for the pro-  gramme. He was anxious to see a concentration  on fewer projects with better results. While most  Unesco projects were worth while, rome were  suporior to others, and it was essential to apply  Unesco's resources in staff, time and money, to  the most effective. It would be well to bear in  mind the five criteria for sele tion suggested by  the United Kingdom delegate, and the method of  evaluation referred to by the Director-General,
(8) He welcomed the oppor”.unities given by the  programme for cultural exchanges between  countries, and was especially pleased to see Asia  and Africa inciuded in such activities, The  United States of America was interested and  active in that field,
(10) He supported whcle-heartedily the delegates  of France and other countries who had referred  to the need for developing Unesco's work for