PLENAR  feeling is common and where men released from  fear create delight for eye and ear and heart.  Beyond all reason, I am unconquerably persuaded  that this will come, "'  Y MEETINOS 11-9  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, let us bend  our energies to the task of hastening its coming.  The meeting rose at 7. 20 p. m.  NINTH PLENARY MEETING
17 November 1954 at 10.30 a.m,  President: Mr. ZAVALA MUNIZ (Uruguay)  CONTENTS  Addition of two items to the Conference Agenda .  Discussion of the Director-General's
135  Report  (continued): Speeches by the delegates of Costa  Rica, Cuba, Iraq, Czechoslovakia, Turkey,  Laos, Mexico, Cambodia, Viet-Nam, and the  representatives of the United Nations and of the  Organization of American States  ADDITION GF TWO ITEMS TO [HE CONFERENCE AGENDA
(1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):
1 have ‘o announce that Yugoslavia and Israel have  submitted requests, similar to that put forward by  the Government of Iran under item 9. 4. 7 of the  agenda, for the writing off of a sum owed to the  Organization, being a loss incurred by the National  Commission acting as a distributing agency for  Unesco coupons.
(2) The General Committee proposes that two new  items be added to the agenda:
9.4.7.1: Request from the National Commission  of the Federal People's Republic of Yugoslavia for  the writing off of the sum of $1,666.67, being a  loss incurred by the Commission acting as a dis-  tributing agency for Unesco coupons.
9.4.7.2: Request from the delegation of Israel  for the writing off of the sum of $5,714. 30, being  a loss incurred by the Israeli National Commission  acting as a distributing agency for Unesco coupons.
(3) In accordance with Rule 14, paragraph 2, of  the Rules of Procedure, new items of the agenda,  proposed to the Conference by the General Commit-  tee, must be approved hy a two-thirds majority of  the members present and voting. If there is no  objection, I shall take the vote on the two requests  together, as both are concerned with the same  question and will be dealt with in the same  resolution,
(4) The result of the voting is: 26 in favour, 2  against and 2 abstentions. The requests made by    - 135 -  the delegations of Yugoslavia and Israel are there-  fore to be added to the agenda.
(5) I have to announce that, this morning, on the  proposal of the delegate of Colombia, Mr. Bernal  Jimenez, the General Committee unanimously  decided to invite the famous poetess, Juana de  Ibarbuurou, to attend a meeting of this Conference,  as a tribute both to her genius and to the Republic  of Uruguay. The General Committee will be res-  ponsible for making the necessary arrangements.  DISCUSSION OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL'S REPORT  (continued)
(6) As the list of speakers is still so long, 1  should like to ask delegates wishing to speak to  confine themselves strictly to the prescribed time -  limit. I call upon the delegate of Costa Rica.
(7) Mr. GAMEZ SOLANO (Costa Rica) (Trans-  lation from the Spanish): Mr. President, ladies  and gentlemen, the Government of Costa Rica,  through its delegation to this eighth session,  wishes to convey its greetings to the General  Conference of Unesco.
(8) In 1949, as a member of the Jinta Fundadora  of the Second Republic, the present President of  the Republic, Mr. José Figueres, signed the  decree whereby Costa Rica became a member of  this Organization. He therefore wished to send  me, the present Minister of Education, to rep-  resent him at this session of the Conference, for
1-9 PLENARY  I was also in office at the time when the instrument  of acceptance was signed in 1949, Our Government  places such steadfast confidence and such great  hopes in international organizations that, were it  not for the special responsibilities of his office,  the President of our Republic would be here himself,  leading the delegation as he did at the First Regional  Conference of National Commissions, held at Havana  in December 1850,
(9) Our country is so small and our people so few  that we need have no fear of aggression by armed  might and can stand aside from the great struggles  to which the clash of economic interests gives rise.
(10) With our clear appreciation of our responsi-  bilities, we are a people devoted ts the cultivation  of Man, the finest flower of the Universe. It has  truly been said of my country that its teachers out-  number its soldiers, and ! can state here today, as  a tribute to world culture, that, under the explicit  provisions of the Constitution, there are now no  soldiers in Costa Rica, but there are teachers,  Our armies are striving for the development of  character th-ough culture: they are the children at  school, the young people in our colleges, the men  at the university. We are seeking to give the men  and women of Costa Rica rights of property, but it  is our firm resolve that they shall be first and fore-  most lords and owners of themselves.
(11) If we ever have to fight for the defence of our  territorial sovereignty, we shall be able to call  upon our citizens, our civilians, who will have  learnt at school to love their native country more  than life itself. And they are fully aware that their  blood may justly be required of them, for it is the  life-giving sap from which the splendid tree of  national horour draws its strength, Moreover, as  a nation belonging to the Organization of American  States, we trust in thé observance of th: treaties  governing inter-American relations, which we, for  our own part, have sworn to respect and are indeed  respecting.
(12) This being so, the trust and confidence we  place in all international organizations, and, more  particularly, in Unesco, will be readily understood.  In view of the functions which the United Nations is  undertaking, including the functions of Unesco, whose  field of activity is steadily being more clearly  defined, we consider that the system of co-ordinating  the activities of the various departments, as  described by the Director-General, is very suitable  and effective. Such cc-ordination is bound to benefit  the Organization, and we believe that the United  Nations might very well introduce a similar system  among all the Specialized Agencies in order either  to avoid duplication of work or to furnish greater  aid in specific directions.
(13) With regard to the Organization's programme  for the forthcoming two-year period, 1955 and 1956,  our delegation is very well satisfied with the division  of each chapter of the proposed programme and  budget into two distinct parts - namely, services,’  activities and obligations for all the Member States  as a body, and work connected with special problems  in which individual States may be particularly inter-  ested. This programme structure meets the need,  mentioned in his report by the Director-General,  for giving greater assistance to Member States and  - 136 -     MEETINGS  for working out more practical schemes for them.  The decentralization of the implementation of  Unesco's programme, of which there has been so  much talk at this and previous sessions of the  General Conference, can nuw be based on devoting  larger resources to the carrying out of these  urgent projects for providing the help needed by  States. In the opinion of our delegation, the plan-  ning of these practical projec’s calls for careful  study and wise and cautious p reparation, so that  they may not compromise the established service  activities of the Organization, in which all the  Member States are interested. Unesca's art,  since the Organization came into being, has been  marked by a clear and constant extension of the  scope of the Organization's activities. It sometimes  seems to us that this extension, although it may be  considered natural for an Organization working in  a field as wide as that of education, science and  culture and reaching out to every branch of man's  activities, entails a danger that efforts and rescurces  may be dissipated unprofitably on too large a number  of projects. Our delegation is pleased to see the  great efforts that Unesco has made to do really  useful work in fundamental education, which is  rightly considered to be one of the Organization's  main responsibilities, and to plan for a better co-  ordination of work in this field by elaborating  special projects for the purpose, which are shown  under the headings of Cultural Activities, Social  Sciences, Mass Communication, Exchange of  Persons and, in particular, Education. We can  say the same of the improvement of textbooks,  syllabuses and teaching methods, a field in which  careful thought has been devoted to the need for  g' ing the individual a well-balanced training, and  for discovering the needs of the community, and  the opportunities open, in advance.
(14) With regard to the work already done, and  the activities planned for the purpose of developing  the spirit of international understanding, we note  with satisfaction that the Organization has attributed  very great importance to these activities, which  are basic to the programme of Unesco. In this  connexion, when the propesed programme and  budget come up for discussion, our delegation will  have an opportunity of speaking of an activity which,  in our opinion, is one of the most useful, enduring  and effective of all our projects; I refer to the  scheme of co-ordinated experimental artivities in  education for international under<tanding and  co-operation.
(15) We must recognize that there are two distinct  sides to Unesco's work: the governmental side,  carried out through the delegates and the officials  who give their services to the Organization, and  the no less important activities in which the peoples  take a direct part. Without this backing from the  ordinary citizen, the work of this and all other  international organizations would risk being under -  valued because it is not understood, or coming to  nought because people are not interested in it.  This popular support is furnished by the work of  the non-governmental organizations; and the  National Commissions play their part, in the  various Member States, by stimulating and co-  ordinating the activities of these organizations.   PLENARY  The National Commissions are small-scale Unescos  in all the Member States, responsible for ensuring  continuity in the efforts for the implementation and  development of the programme and for helping to  achieve the ideals set forth in the Constitution. The  work of Unesco is an act of faith; as an alternative  to the misunderstanding, fear, hatred and doubt  which seem to prevail in certain parts of the world,  it offers the understanding of man for man, the  principles of collective security, and an unfailing  trust in the triumph of the postulates of the Universal  Declaration of Human Rights.
(16) We hope that, at this eighth session, the Gen-  eral Conference will adopt the provisions in the  proposed programme and budget relating to the  encouragement and better co-ordination of the work  of the National Commissions. We for our part shall  take the opportunity of putting forward some ideas  and suggestions on this question, which is of special  interest to us.
(17) The Costa Rican delegation to the First Region-  al Conference of National Commissions, held at  Havana in December 1950, which was led by Mr.  José Figueres Ferrer, now the President of the  Republic, submitted a request for technical assist-  ance for the country. That request was approved  and in 1951 we signed the basic agreement for a  five member technical assistance mission, which  began work immediately on fundamental education,  the organization and admimstraton of primary edu-  cation, the organization and administration of secon-  dary education, vocational and technical education,  and the training of teachers.
(18) This mission has worked with us for three  years and we, the members of the present Govern-  ment, have seen its results. ! have with me the  final report of the mission, which we shall make  available to the delegations attending this Conference  and on which I shall comment in due course.
(19) Technical assistance is, we consider, the most  important of all Unesco's activities, for it brings  the Organization into direct touch with the real  needs and aspirations of the peoples. On its success  or failure the prestige of the Organization very  largely depends, not only in the eyes of the govern-  ments but also in those of the people they represent.  Unesco should therefore devote the utmost care to  this type of assistance and mobilize all the factors  which can help, or on which final success depends.  Sometimes these factors depend on the government  which has requested assistance; sometimes they  depend on the organization of the Unesco mission;  and sometimes they depend on the methods and tech-  niques adopted by the mission in planning and carry-  ing out its projects.
(20) It would be a wise move on the part of Unesco,  ‘n this extremely important field, to review and  improve the methods of supervising the work and  giving assistance during the progress of the projects,  and of evaluating results.
(21) On the termination of the three-year technical  assistance agreement concluded with my country,
1 have to bring this Conference the grateful thanks  of the Government and people of Costa Rica for the  invaluable co-operation furnished,and to state our  firm intention of continuing the experiments already  launched and of carrying out immediately the  - 137 -     MEETINGS n-¢  recommendations contained in the relevant  reports.
(22) The Government of Costa Rica thought that  the choice of this model Republic of Uruguay for  the seat of the eighth session of the Conference  was an excellent one. The excellence of that  choice can be seen immediately In the fact that,  at this present session, a iarger number of  countries are represented ani there is a larger  number of delegates per country. 1 thank you,  Mr. President, for allowing us to come and live  among this proud and glorious people of Uruguay,  whose every action, every thought provides a  lesson in nobility, This is a fair country; Nature  here is fair; but fairest and most glorious of all  is Man. Such is the uistinguishing feature of the  laws and way of life of Uruguay, ‘his laboratory of  democracy.
(23) A government is drawing to the end of its term  of office surrounded with the respect and admiration  of its people, who arc now preparing, with proces-  sions, songs and demonstrations, to cast their  votes for the candidates of their choice, while in  public places the work done is freely discussed,  and arguments and plans for the future are expounded.  Freedom and dignity are the bread of life for the  citizens of Uruguay. The schools of Uruguay are  academies of democracy. The colleges of Uruguay  are academies of democracy. Its universities, too  are academies of democracy.
(24) Thank you, Mr. President, for having brought  us to Uruguay. Here we can speak of freedom.  Here we can speak of brotherhood, for every man  respects, in his fellow man, that wherein he is  most truly man - his thinking, his speaking, his  actions. Here we can speak of equality, because  all have the same opportunities of cultivating their  abilities, because the only difference which counts  is the difference of personal culture. The only  man who can claim superiority is he whose mind  and soul are superior. In Uruguay, we can dream  of a better humanity because, here in the Americas,  it furnishes an archetype of civic life. Costa Rica,  through me, pays tribute to the prople of Uruguay.
(25) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Span-  ish): I call upon the head of the delegation of Cuba.
(26) Mr. FERRARA MARINO (Cuba) (Translation  from the Spanish): Mr. President, ladies and  gentlemen, it seems to me appropriate, inthis  general discussion of the business of the eighth  session of Unesco's General Conference, tc make  a reference to the presence of Soviet Russ'a in our  Organization. More than two hundred million men  and women, living in an enormous, fertile land,  have just brought their aid to this great Republic  of Learning in action. They come with an age-old  literature whose clarity of expression and vigour  of thought compete for our admiration; they come  with amazing scientific skills which we hope will  soon be devoted to ensuring the welfare of their  people, whose lot, like that of many other nations,  is certainly not entirely happy; ard with achieve-  ments in education to their credit which seem to  me, as a humble but impartial student of history,  to represent the best side of their present régime.   II-9 PLENARY
(27) The adhesion of Russia is particularly import-  ant because other States, holding similar political  views, have now expressed their intention of co-  operating in the same way with the rest of the world  in the wide fie:d covered by the United Nations Edu-  cational, Scientific and Cultural Organization; and  because certain others, who seemed to have decided  to abandon the noble undertakings to which they had  once voluntarily committed themselves, are now  returning to the fold.
(28) All this should cheer us, especially as these  developments combine with other signs in the  political firms ment (which we would wish to see  more often and more generally) to strengthen the  belief that we are now on the threshold of a general  agreement, despite differences in political creeds  which, reflected in disputes between governments,  have recently assumed a bitter and menacing  character.
(29) The Conterence has adopted the British propo-  sal that the discussion on the admission of the Re-  publics of Ruraania and Bulgaria be postponed until  the next session; but this - far from indicating, as  has been suggested, any intention of abandoning  our progress towards universality - reflects a  determination to make the foundations secure, so  as to avoid trouble and difficulty at a later stage.  The vote can be interpreted as showing that this  Conference de sires the co-operation of Rumania and  Bulgaria but hopes that, once the still heated passions  of the revolut onary days have calmed, the generosity  of human feel ng will return and that we, distant  spectators, will hear at least some rumour of the  event,
(30) Another happy idea in connexion with this  matter of universality was the United Kingdom pro-  posal that we should open our doors to territories  and groups of territories which are not entirely  responsible for their international relations, as  Associate Members of the United Nations Educational,  Scientific and Cultural Organization. This suggestion  from the United Kingdom Government, which has  been enthusiastically welcomed by the Conference,  means a practical widening of the world - a step  forward which, in helping the underdeveloped  countries, also helps taose which are already ad-  vanced, and opens up new opportunities for the wel-  fare of mankind and the development of the hum=.  mind.
(31) This e'ghth session in Montevideo, beginning  with this addition to its membership, will do its  work well in the days to come, as can be prophesied  from the report by the Director-General and the  Executive Board, and from the proposed programme,  on which we are soon to begin discussion.
(32) The American proposal that Member States be  given greater responsibility in the structure of the  Board will strengthen the bonds between each one of  the Member States and the community to which we  all belong. :* is a well-known fact that, in inter-  national organizations, any exercise of authority  brings with it greater responsibility. Unesco will  therefore be strengthened by this new system for  the election of its highest administrative organ,  without losing the flexibility and variety it owes to  the independent cultural organizations operating in  its orbit, or the independence of thought and initiative  - 138 -     MEETINGS  essential to any mental process based on reason;  these, in our particular case, are the direct and  necessary consequence of the Orgamization's varied  and heterogeneous make-up, or, in other words,  of its universality. It would be a very grave error  to seek to impose State control over the elusive  operations of the mind and the great adventures  of the spirit. The United States of America would  never entertain such an idea - and I say this to the  honour of all the States belonging to that Union -  precisely because the chief cause of its political  greatness and economic development lies in the  limitatious imposed by its Constitution on the  power of the State and, especially, on the power  of the Federal Government. By approving the  United States amendment, Unesco will ensure its  futur« but will remain free.
(33) The programme submitted by the Director-  Gereral for the next two years is arranged on  rational and practical lines. The proposed activi-  ties described in that programme can be divided  into ? vo groups - one group being designed to  compiete what has already been begun, improving  and systematizing the work, and the other to meet  the latest demands.
(34) Any human community, great or small,  private or public, religious or speculative, must  from time to time pause and give thought to co-  ordinating the principles, ideas, activities and  aims which have grown up spontaneously ard  sometimes in confusion.
(35) Far be it from me to suggest a pause in our  work; but I do wish to help, by my words, in  ensuring that the various projects already adopted  or about to be adopted are fitted into a system of  practical application which will enable them to  produce all the results hoped for by the States  which have proposed them. Ideas, even the most  brilliant, produce good results only when efficient,  orderly and, above all, systematic arrangements  are made for carrying them out. This co-ordina-  tion will be facilitated in the future if the States  proposing projects, or the delegations taking part  in the Conference's work, will elaborate their  ideas a little more when initiating new activities -  that is to say, if, instead of setting forth general  desires, as they sometimes do, they will propose  specific projects. The United Kingdom has per-  formed what I have in mind with its proposal re-  garding Associate Members. 'A proper present-  ation of resolutions submitted to Unesco would  enable our Conference to take fuller advantage  of the investigations made by the proposing  State and would give the Executive Board and  the Director-General, as it were, an authori-  tative interpretation of the purposes of the  proposals. By this means, moreover, the  Conference could more easily cast its resolu-  tions in a mandatory form instead of limiting  itself, as sometimes unfortunately happens, to  the vague terms of political and diplomatic papers,  which, though they may occasionally solve practical  problems, do not assist in creating a fitting idea of  justice among the ordinary people - who, incidentally,  with ever critical eyes, lock to us, raised on our  lofty stage, for constant and unfailing wisdom.
(36) In my opinion, the United Nations Educational,   PLENARY  Scientific and Cultural Organization is now about to  delimit the scopr of its concerns and to determine  its objects mors 1 recisely. If we are to do this, it
1s essential that we lay fresh emphasis on the free  and popular character of our Organization, for  there could be no greater mistake than to abandon  this great centre of culture - the promoter of pro-  gress and of intellectual and moral development -  to an impersonal bureaucracy, ruled from afar by  a hundred discordant political heads. A Unesco  which stooped to being the tool of an official culture,  of an autocratic science or art - fossilizing itself,  at best, in a particular historical stratum - would  be, not a force for progress, but an agency of  stagnation or indeed of deplorable regression.
(37) We must ensure that our Conference is not  infected by the errors which, in some countries,  have evoked criticism of parliamentary assemblies.  If fixed majorities and minorities established them-  selves, our discussions could not achieve their aim,  The overriding influence of certain dominant  countries, though perhaps tolerable in the political  field, would be disastrous in the field of culture.  The growth of satellite groups, clinging like fungi  to any power able to provide material advantages  or minor honours, would be the beginning of the end,  Anything which marked a departure from universality,  from strict equality, from the full observance of  geographical representation in the making of appoint-  ments to certain posts, from the true, lofty and just  application of our Constitution and our accepted  principles, would be a sign of the incipient deca lence.
(38) The Republic of Cuba sees in this tremendous  adventure - daring to the point of temerity - which  goes by the name of Unesco, something more than  the idea of maintaining an intellectual centre for the  world, distributing modest material resources for  the attainment of certain spiritual ends: it sees in  it something even higher, something which, in truth,  emerges as the synthesis of all the programmes  drawn up, all the proposals made and all the  measures taken by the Executive Board, the Direc-  tor-General and successive sessions of the General  Conference. We look forward to an Organization  constantly developing and progressing, in which  pursuit of the temporary, futile advantage of the  moment gives place to a spirit of well-advised  foresight uniting the good of the one with that of the  many. And may this change come about not only  through the work of education and the public form-  ulation of moral principles, which are easy enough  to proclaim but difficult to put into effect, but also  through the practice of living as a community,  resulting from the combination of a habit of mind -  perceiving, albeit dimly, the true import of events -  with the practical enjoyment of the blessings of  peace and the rich fruits of our dynamic modern  civilization.
(39) In Cuba we are seeking to make ourselves  equal to our lofty aspirations, by endeavouring to  unite all the factors which may help to achieve these  purposes around the National Commission. Even  now, there is increasing evidence of the vitality of  culture and a healthy way of life ir our country.  We hope that we shall have still better success in  future and that, one day, we may be able to show  you a free organization, full of variety and uniting  - 139 -     MEETINGS u-9  a mul:iplicity of tendencies, which wili give a  complete reflection of the educational, scientific  and cultural life of our nation,
(40) I would not wish to end my remarks without  endorsing all the tributes which, from this rostrum,  have already been paid to Uruguay. Whenever in  future I hear the inspiring strains of the Canticle  to Hope, that wonderful testimony of art to the  greatness of humanity, which thousands of youthful  voices sent surging upwards to the cloudless sky  in front of this Parliament building, I shall wonder  afresh, in retrospect, at that mighty appeal to the  sovereign with a hundred thousand heads - the only  arbiter and judge of the peoples’ destinies - to  take part in the struggle which is going forward,  before our eyes, with a true sense of civic respon-  sibility and firm resolve.
(41) My hope for the people of Uruguay, now as  ever, is that they will enjoy greatness but not  pride, will know prosperity unsullied by the suf-  fering of others, and will be granted happiness in  full and unfailing measure.
(42) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Span-  ish): I call upon the head of the delegation of Iraq.
(43) Mr. AL-HILLI (Iraq): Mr. President,  fellow delegates. Or: behalf of the Government of  Iraq and my colleagues I would like to express my  profound gratitude to the Government and the  people of Uruguay for their generous hospitality.
(44) Wendell Wilkie, the eminent American leader,  said, while visiting Baghdad, the capital of my  country: "I have heard of the Thief of Baghdad  but I have never heard of so many thieves in it.  Indeed, they have stolen my heart." To pass the  remark, if I am allowed, the Montevidean people  with their charm prove to be real thieves of hearts.
(45) Iraq, as you know, is an Arab country of five  million people, This country, once the cradle of  civilization, is known to some of you as Mesopotamia,  to others as the land of the old Caliphs, of the  magic carpet and the Arabian Nights.
(46) Iraq has seized every opportunity to secure  its development in the diferent spheres of life.  In Iraq ons can see ancient and modern civilization  side by side. The former indicates the endeavour  of Babylonia, once the centre of the world, to  establish an immortal civilization the relics of  which still survive here. It may be of use to point  out that the latest excavations at Tell Harmal in  Iraq are changing our whole concepts of Ancient  History. Among the many great finds, we are told  it was there that the first university of the world  was established. The awakening of modern Iraq  indicates the will of our people to preserve the  glorious legacy of their fathers and to adopt the  best in modern civilization.
(47) In commenting on the report of the Director-  General I! should like to describe the advance that  we have made in education recently, how Unesco  has assisted us in this advance in the last four  vears, and how it can further assist us in the  next two or three years,
(48) We are a country with a high rate of illiteracy.  At the end of the First World War we had no more  than about 6, 000 children in our public schools.
1-9 PLENARY  By 1932, when the British mandate ended, we had  about 35, 000 children or almost six times the  enrolment in 1918. By 1944 this primary school  enrolment became slightly over 100, 000 and now  stands at a little less than 300, 000 students. This  is almost fifty times what it was in 1918, eight times  the figure of 1932 and three times that for 1944.  Nevertheless we have yet a long way to go in order  to put every one of our children to school. Our  present primary school enrolment, in spite of all  the advance achieved, is still only half of what it  should be.
(49) At the same time Iraq is an agricultural country  with great potential agricultural resources. It also  has rich resources in oil. To raise the standard of  living of our people we must develop our agricultural  ana technical education. We have had technical and  agricultural schools for a long time, but they have  not been very successful either in attracting students  or in giving them a good training.
(50) We also need leaders in all fields of life. For  this purpose we have been sending students abroad  by hundreds. There are this year more than a  thousand students studying in universities in Europe  and America as well as in the Middle East. We  have also founded cur own colleges for higher  learning, which now have more than 5,000 students.
(51) In the last five years we have applied to Unesco  and other Specialized Agencies for assistance.  Unesco sent us < n expert in 1950 to make a prelim-  inary study of the problem of compulsory education.  For the last three years we have had a five-man  technical assistance mission in fundamental educa-  tion, which has been operating successfully on one  of our new land distribution schemes. Through that  mission and with the full support of the Iragi Gov-  ernment the idea of fundamental education has  taken root, so much so that we have established a  fundamental education section in the Ministry of  Education.
(52) Unesco also sent us a two-man mission on  vocational education and its relation to secondary  education. On the technical assistance programrne  we have also beer sent two technical education  experts. These nave helped us reorganize our  technical scnools, and their reports have been  translated into A-abic and published by the Ministry  of Education.
(53) Further, Unesco sent, at our request, an  expert librarian who has reorganized our public  library and the libraries of two of our higher inst:-  tutions. We have also had for the last three years  four professors of science and mathematics in the  University College of Baghdad, who have helped in  laying down courses and founding laboratories. We  have also received a number of fellowships in all  the above fields.
(54) We are very grateful to Unesco for this aid,  but we are a fast developing country, which wants  to exploit its resources in order to raise its  standard of living and to lead a new, cultural and  peaceful life. We therefore need further assistance.
(55) In tne first place we must put all our children  to school. This is now the policy of our Government.  How to organize, administer and finance a school  syste’n which will take another half million children  on top of the 300, 000 now enrolled is a problem for  - 140 -     MEETINGS  which we need advice from Unesco. Along with  that, of course, should go a programme of teacher  training and we have already begun to found new  training colleges.
(56) Side by side with the compulsory education  campaign we want to establish a wide programme  of fundamental education. For the training both  of rural teachers and of fundamental education  leaders we want to establish a mational training  centre. We should very much like to have Unesco's  assistance in this field, and for this reason we  welcome the project of rural teacher training in  Unesco's education programme for 1955-56.
(57) Again, one of our big problems is the training  of teachers of vocational and technical subjects,  and Unesco might be able to assist in this field.  We welcome the conference on vocational and  technical education in the Arab States proposed in  the programme.
(58) It is our hope that Unesco's assistance in the  field of libraries will continue. Of great import-  Ance to us also is the close relationship between  our rich archaeological museum and Unesco.
(59) I have said enough to show how the programme  of Unesco has been closely tied up with our needs,  how it has contributed to our educational and cultu-  ral development and how we hope it will continue  to do so. For my part ! am glad of the new tendency  in the programme to give direct aid to Member  States at the higher budgetary level.
(60) I should not like to leave the floor nefore  raising one further point. Unesco, in co-operation  with the United Nations, has been ensuring that the  children of Arab refugees shall have a good measure  of education, We are grateful for this and in the  last few years hundreds of schools have been opened  for refugees. But, if I may say so, I am puzzled  by the low. ng of Unesco’s contribution to this  enterprise. We hope that no petty pecuniary  considerations will stand in the way of this real  human endeavour. After all, the Arab refugees  who were deprived of the National Home that is  rightly theirs, should at least, by the assistance  of Unesco, secure proper education for their  children. In our opinion, this is the duty not only  of Unesco but of the whole world.
(61) Unesco's name stands high in Iraq and in the  Arab States. This is in recognition of its con-  structive work of the last four or five years. I!  sincerely hope that in the coming years it will  continue to advance from one good achievement to  another and better achievement in our Arab lands  as well as in the rest of the world.
(62) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Span-  ish): 1 call upon the delegate of Lebanon.
(63) Mr. AMMOUN (Lebanon) (Translation from  the French): Mr. President, delegates, ladies and  gentlemen, the Lebanese delegation wishes first of  all to discharge a pleasant obligation - one, how-  ever, which it is a delicate matter to put into  words,
(64) In this country, where culture, education  and science appear to have found an ideal climate,  and whose thinkers, writers and poets have borne  high the banner of the mind in all fields and   PLENARY  in many languages, no delegate to a Unesco Gereral  Conference can altogether feel a stranger.
(65! But what is the position of the Lebanese rep-  r~sentative? Yesterday you gave our Head of State,  President Camille Chamoun, a welcome that still  echoes in our hearts and that we shall long remem-  ber. In this country of Uruguay, which preserves  among its splendid characteristics a sense of hospi-  tality both Spanish and Arab, to which it is one of  the successors; where so many Lebanese, received  with open arms and assimilated, now share your  life, your joys and your sorrows; how could I feel  a stranger, even in expressing the fullness of my  gratitude? It is thus as a brother, if you permit it,  Mr. President, that I express from the bottom of  my heart, the feelings of my country's friendship  and admiration for all you have done for us, as well  as the sense of my own personal gratitude.
(66) You will know, gentlemen, the saying of a  French historian about Talleyrand: "So much bad  has been said of M. de Talleyrand that to speak about  him with any novelty one must say something good".  The same might almost be said of the report of the  Director-General. So much good has been said of  it that to speak with any novelty one would need  perhaps to say something bad; however, the taste  for novelty will not carry us to this extreme.
(67) Since its foundation, Unesco, faithful to its  Constitution, has constantly contributed to mutual  understanding among the peoples. To follow and  grasp the immensity of the task it has undertaken -  to appreciate the results of the efforts made, which  would have been even more fruitful if budgetary  difficulties had not arisen to impede or retard them -  it is enough to glance at the programme. We, Mr.  Director-General, associate ourselves with numerous  other delegations in expressing our deep gratitude  to you, in saying how much we admire your pro-  gramme, and in assuring you that we recognize the  full value of your endeavours.
(68) All branches of human activity in the fields of  science, education and culture have been intelli-  gently and effectively dealt with. The immense  effort spread over every discipline of the mind, the  creation and subvention of international associations,  fellowships, practical aid through technical assist-  ance, social studies, cultural endeavours, funda-  mental education projects, meetings, numerous  agreements and conventions, travelling exhibitions,  the literacy campaign - all this is but a brief sum-  mary of Unesco's activities.
(69) The results are encouraging - even magnificent.  Undeniable achievements stand to Unesco's credit.  Yet this is not enough; and we should like to see  Unesco tackling one essential, vital problem. This  problem has been raised in a draft resolution by the  Indian delegation, and we would like to see our  Specialized Agency make the principle there enunci-  ated into a prime aim of its activity and research.
(70) The drama of our age, the only real problem,  is the latent apprehension in face of the power in-  herent in our resources for destruction - the wearing  anxiety, the fearful anticipation of the hour when  man might grasp the paraphernalia of science,  suspended by an invisible nail, from the ceiling of  his fate, and which would inevitably smother  him in its fall.    MEETINGS
(71) Not one of us, even in his daily routine  occupations, can presume to escape from this  tragic obsession. Two ideologies, two systems of  thought, two different conceptions of man, and two  beliefs - if not, indeed, two religions - face each  other in opposition. What 1s to be gained by refu-  sing to recognize this fact? Is it not our compel-  ling duty to look for a common denominator between  these two conceptions, and to seek for means  whereby these two ways of thought may coexist?
(72) Without renouncing our convictions or our  faith, without being false to our ideals, must not  we of Unesco seek to expand our search and action  to the uttermost human limits and discover, by  every possible means, the point of contact?
(73) We have nothing to be ashamed of in our  convictions, our faith and our ideals; but neither  must we fear to face convictions, faith and ideals  that are different.
(74) Never have we approached as closely as today  to that universality which is the very essence of  our Organization. Everything bids us act, and act  before the sorcerer's apprentice of our childhood  tales can lay hands on that dreadful paraphernalia  upon which our apprehensions arc concentrated.  Ideas lead the world, and will continue to lead it,  towards the best or the worst of fates, To recon-  cile, defend or spread them - that is our task and  our mission.
(75) Will there ever be a more favourable moment?  Throughout the world today, all men of goodwill  are showing a desire to give first priority to this  problem of coexistence.
(76) Several months ago, at The Hague, we signed  a Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property
1n the Event of Armed Conflict; but must we not do  all in our power to avoid the conflict itself?
(77) What is the use of fundamental education and  our efforts to raise the cultural level of adults, if  tomorrow sons and fathers are to perish together  on the same battlefield, among the ruins of a civi-  lization so dear to them, and if the survivors  (assuming there are any) can reproach us with  having neglected to take all measures consistent  with honour, humanity and dignity for its defence  and preservation? When such things as human life  itself and the future of civilizations are at stake,  there can be no room for scepticism or discourage-  ment, and no effort can be regarded as vain,
(78) An Eastern parable tells, as you know, of a  king's son who had fallen sick. In order to recover  he had, for a few hours, to wear the shirt of a  happy man. His father despatched messengers  throughout the kingdom, but they searched for such  a man in vain; everyone had something to make  him afraid. At last a happy man was discovered;  unfortunately, he had no shirt! Are not the happy  peoples the peoples without the bomb, like the man  without the shirt? We are one of those pecples.
(79) Let therefore Unesco's eighth General  Conference, and its Director-General,  identify themselves with this task, In so  doing they will be serving the Constitution  and its aims, which is good; and they  will have responded to the hopes placed  in them by all which  is even better.  men of goodwill,  ~ 141   I-9 PLENARY
(80) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):
1 call upon the Head of the Czechoslovak delegation.
(81) Mr. HAYEK (Czechoslovakia) (Translation  from the French): Mr. President, delegates, ladies  and gentlemen, it so happens that the Czechoslovak  delegation takes the floor in this great assembly on  International Students' Day, which commemorates a  tragic event in the life of our people and in our na-  tional civilization. Fifteen years ago, on 17 Novem-  ber 1939, the Hitle-ite occupation struck a heavy  blow at the culture of the Czech people and its  century-old achievements, when it closed all higaer  educational establishments - including the Charles  University of Prague, the oldest in Central Europe -  and massacred and deported their intellectual work-  ers, as well as thousands of students. This act of  violence, which was only the prelude to subsequent  and even more cruel massacres in many other  countries, shook the conscience of the world. What  had made it possible was the failure of earlier  attempts to preserve peace on the basis of coexist-  ence and collective security. On the other hand,  the indignation it aroused helped to revive intellect-  ual and moral solidarity among the peoples attached  to peace and freedom; this solidarity triumphed and,  after the victory over Fascism and Hitlerism,  resulted in the basis being laid for the fruitful and  constructive co-operation outlined in Unesco's  Constitution.
(82) If our delegation has mentioned this tragic  date in the history of Czechoslovak and world culture,  it is merely to say that it is in this same spirit of  solidarity and co-operation that our civilization and  our people today commemorate this anniversary with  all the universities of the world, with all intellectual  workers, and with all student youth. It is in this  spirit that they are striving to make a positive  contribution to the intellectual, cultural and moral  progress of mankind. The history of the past fifteen  years has amply shown us that the development of  our national life and culture is closely linked with  the cause of peace, of mutual understanding and of  international co-operation.
(83) Today, in Czechoslovakia, we are witnessing  an unprecedented expansion in our culture, science  and education, Science, as a guiding principle of  our national policy, and education and culture, as  { mportant factors in social progress, the economy,  and the training of men, occupy a prime place in  our national life. This is shown by the figures of  our national budget. In 1953 25.8 per cent and in
1954 31. 2 per cent of the total budget was devoted  to education, culture and public health, If we  compare these absolute figures, we find an increase  of 23 per cent during last year alone. As a result  of our achievements in the economic sphere, the  Government has been able to carry out important  measures in education, culture and the organization  of science, of which we will merely mention the  most outstanding. We have established a unified  educational system, which we are gradually expand-  ing with a view to achieving, before long, complete,  free and compulsory secondary education for all  young people up to the age of 17. The number of  higher educational establishments has been increased  to an extent never before attained. Special forms of  - 142 -     MEETINGS  secondary and higher education have been developed  in order to raise the professional and cultural  leve! of tens of thousands of workers. The organi-  zation of scientific studies has culminated in the  creation of three Academies of Sciences. Access  to the classics of literature and art, both national  and international, is now ensured for our people  on a large scale, thanks to a rational publishing  system, There are 1 vast number of galleries,  museums, exhibition halls, theatres and concert  rooms, continually thronged by fresh visitors who  are showing themselves most sensible to artistic  and cultural values, The radio and television  networks have been extended, and their programmes  assign a considerable place to educational, cultu-  ral and artistic activities.
(84) It is in this spirit that we wish to work, like-  wise, within Unesco. So far as Unesco's mission  is concerned, we base ourselves on the provisions  of the Constitution, which states that the Organiza-  tion's purpose is - and I quote it - “to contribute  to peace and security by promoting collaboration  among the nations through education, science and  culture".
(85) Such collaboration, as contemporary history  shows us, can be based only on peaceful coexistence  between countries and nations, whatever their  economic and political systems may be. It must  be founded on mutual respect for their sovereignty,  frontiers and internal affairs. These principles,  which are the very foundation of the United Nations  Charter, must also be applied in the cultural  sphere. In this field, therefore, the creation of  ideological blocs and exclusive groupings can make  no contribution to the strengthening of confidence  or to peaceful coexistence, Trends of this kind  are becoming more and more discredited by world  opinion and by history. It would be all the more  unfortunate were they to try to gain the upper hand  in cultural and intellectual relations; any such  attempt could not but prejudice our Organization  and its mission.
(86) The influence of these trends is the main  source of the weaknesses that public opinion has,  in recent times, identified in Unesco's work.  From the standpoint of Unesco 's peaceful mission  and the Organization's universality, its gravest  defect is the absence, from its ranks, of countries  and nations which, in the creation of cultural  values and in efforts for peace, occupy a position  of the first importance. This applies, in the first  place, to China. The fact that China is not rep-  resented in the organs of the United Nations is in  itself a grave injury to the cause of world peace,  and to the effectiveness of the United Nations. In  Unesco the absence of the true representatives of  China is a cultural absurdity. Many speakers  here have already shown, eloquently and persua-  sively, how mistaken it is to ignore the tremendous  historical process of a cultural revolution whereby
600 million human beings are taking in their hands  the splendid heritage of a culture thousands of  years old and are placing their talent and their  labour at the service of peace and international  co-operation. It is regrettable that our Organi-  zation has failed to take the slightest initiative  towards solving this problem, which is one of the   PLENARY  most serious known to present times. To postpone  dealing with a problem that is now so mature is by  no means to solve it.
(87) Unesco's universality and peaceful mission  have also been gravely harmed by the fact that at  this very Conference certain political pressure has  prevented the admission of Bulgaria and Rumania,  although they were recommended by the Economic  and Social Council and by Unesco's Executive Board.  This is the more regrettable in that the sole reason  for this negative decision was the fact that these  peoples, which are culturally most active and evince  a great desire for peace, have chosen an economic  and social system displeasing to the governing circles  of certain countries, We must nevertheless stress  with satisfaction and gratitude the vigorous opposition  shown by many delegations to this evidence of intol-  erance, We have the proof that in Unesco there are  forces loyal to the Organization's mission. Their  presence here allows us to hope that the serious  errors committed in this matter can be rectified.
(88) In the spirit of the universality and peaceful  miscion of Unesco we support the proposal by the  great nation of India that Unesco shall turn its atten-  tion to the culture of the countries and peoples of  Asia and Africa, whose values have not been suffi-  ziently appreciated in certain countries of Western  Europe and North America. We think the same is  true of the culture of Central and Eastern Europe,  and especially of the Slav nations. In this connexion  we can detect inadequacies in the programme of the  International Commission for a History of the Scien-  tific and Cultural Development of Mankind, to which  we shall revert later.
(89) We hope that in this sphere, as well as in that  of bibliographies and cultural documentation, the  Conference will succeed in informing Unesco's work  with the requisite spirit of universality. We in  Czechoslovakia are following with keen interest the  efforts put forth by Unesco in the field of education  and the considerable advances made by the Organiza-  tion in the campaign against illiteracy and ignorance  in certain regions of the world. We shall be happy  to contribute within Unesco, thanks to our own  experience, to educational co-operation, and to  benefit from the experience of others. We agree  that Unesco should concern itself with the problem  of education for living in a world community. This  trend, however, should not lead to speculations about  some so-called citizenship of non-existent super-  States, or to the evolving of theories contrary to  common sense and the true interests of nations. We  consider that the education of youth and adults should  be directed towards practical understanding of the  concept of peaceful coexistence, Education must  inculcate a respect for the existence and special  characteristics of other nations; it must teach  respect for the freedom and sovereignty of  other nations, and lay stress on the need for  enlisting their co-operation. Here, Unesco  can assume a task of the highest importance -  the eliminstion, from education and public  opinion, of all fac.ors calculated to produce,  support, encourage or foment war propaganda  or the glorification of aggression, such as  might stimulate national or racial hatred  or any form of intolerance.  - 143 -     MEETINGS 1-9
(90) The scientists and numerous other scientific  workers of our country have, since the war,  renewed and extended their contacts with colleagues  in other countries. Through Unesco they will be  happy to strengthen these relations and to take part  in numerous forms and plannings of international  scientific co-operation. They would like to make  known their not inconsiderable achievements - to  give proof of their unshakable faith in the power of  science to accomplish the great tasks of our age,  and of their fidelity to the mission of science in  the service of humanity and peace. Peace is essen-  tial to the development and true freedom of scien-  tific research. It is right that Unesco should  devote its attention to research in nuclear physics;  we in Czechoslovakia fully appreciate the funda-  mental importance of this research for science as  a whole, for technology, for production, and hence  for every form of social relationship. We warmly  welcomed the plans for the peaceful use of atomic  energy, and the pioneer example of such use given,  this year, by the Soviet Union. But it seems to us  impossible to work for the peaceful use of atomic  energy so long as we are overshadowed by atomic  and hydrogen bombs and their testing, by the abuse  of science and its results for the purpose of the  mass destruction of civilization. We consider it  essential to prohibit atomic weapons of every type,  and to set up an effective system of international  inspection and control. We can only welcome the  progress made at the Ninth General Assembly of  the United Nations. We regard it as one of Unesco's  primary tasks to make its contribution to further  progress in this direction.
(81) The Czechoslovak people attaches particular  importance to the social sciences. It regards  intellectual workers in this field as the engineers  of human society, and wishes them also to be  engineers of peace. Unesco should act here in  order to steer scientific work towards research  into the bases of social relationships from the  standpoint of coexistence between the nations. The  collection of international legal texts mentioned in  the report is already a step forward. Unesco might  well encourage investigation of the contemporary  historical processes whereby, thanks to humanity's  efforts in the cause of peace, the principle of  coexistence is manifesting itself ever more clearly -  in economic relations, in human thought and in the  realm of politics and law.
(92) One of the principal tasks assumed by Unesco  is that of developing and expanding cultural exchanges.  Czechoslovakia is happy to state that in this sphere  the country has achieved considerable results.  Numerous exchanges of delegations, of folk art and  folklore groups, of scientists and artists, and of  the results of their activities and creativeness have  placed our peoples in close contact with the cultures  of neighbouring peoples and other nations which,  despite their geographical distance from us, are  so at one with us by reason of their efforts in the  cause of peace and constructive progress, Our  cultural activities, our endeavours in education  and science, and our international relations are  aimed at mutual understanding and peaceful co-  operation with all peoples. Cultural events of the  greatest importance in our country, such as the   a-9 PLENARY  Prague International Spring Music Festivel, the  International Film Festival at Karlovy Vary, and  this year the celebration of the anniversary of the  composer Antonin Dvorak, have had international  repercussions as demonstrations for peace and  peaceful co-operation among all nations.
(93) During 1953 and 1954 many delegations visited  Czechoslovakia, including groups from Italy, France,  Belgium, the Scandinavian countries, Uruguay and  Brazil, and a delegation of British writers. Quite  recently a large Indian delegation of artists and  cultural workers was warmly welcomed in our  country.
(94) In addition, Czechoslovakia has taken part in  various international events, such as the international  film festivals at Locarno, Venice, Edinburgh,  Cannes and New Delhi, and in Argentina, Mexico  and Uruguay. All this shows us that, in order to  expand cultural exchanges, it is essential to create  a firm basis and a favourable atmosphere for them.  A climate of confidence must be established and  international co-operation must be practised, on a  world as well as a regional scale, on a solid found-  ation of peaceful coexistence. Allow me to say that  it is the great peoples of Asia who, in the form of  peaceful agreements between the People's Republic  of China, India and Burma, have set us the example.  We should like to believe that Unesco, by developing  cultural relations, will throughout the world contri-  bute to the success of the noble efforts put forth by  the peace-loving governments and peoples which are  now being intensified and are aimed at creating a  genuine system of collective security based on  peaceful coexistence, without distinctions of political  or social régime.
(95) It is likewise nn such a foundation and within  such a framework that the best prospects can be held  out for the technical assistance plans designed to  help less developed nations and peoples to shape  their national cultures, so that they may contribute  more effectively to the cultural endeavours of  humanity as a whole. Czechoslovakia has, in the  course of many centuries, acquired certain experi-  ence which can be usefully applied in the planning  and implementation of educational, scientific and  cultural assistance, and she would be happy if this  experience could effectively be made use of.
(96) Many speakers have eloquently described the  new prospects opening up before Unesco, thanks to  the results of the efforts of certain governments and  peoples to bring about a gradual lessening of inter-  national tension. It is for us at this General Con-  ference to take these great possibilities into account  and jointly to convert them into reality, with a view  not merely to developing cultural activities but to  using them in the cause of world peace. If we do  that, this Conference may well mark, as certain  speakers have hoped, the beginning of a very great  period for our Organization. The Czechoslovak  delegation, in“spired by its people's desire for peace,  will do all in its power to contribute to such a result.
(97) (Translation from the Spanish): In conclusion,  Mr. President, allow me to pay tribute, in the name  of the Czechoslovak delegation, to the Government  and people of Uruguay for the hospitality with which  we have been received in this beautiful city of  Montevideo, and to express our desire that the  - 144 -     MEETINGS  democratic traditions and peaceful spirit of the  people of Uruguay may contribute powerfully to  the creation and maintenance, in this Conference,  of a fruitful atmosphere of mutual understancing  and international co-operation.
(98) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Span-  ish): 1 call upon the delegate of Turkey.
(99) Mr. TUNCEL (Turkey) (Translation from the  French): Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen,  in the name of the Turkish delegation I have the  great honour to greet the representatives of Member  States assembled, thanks to the legendary hospitality  of Uruguay, in this beautiful city of learning, and  to make certain observations with regard to the  reports of the Director-General on the activities  of the Organization between January 1953 and  June 1954,
(100) We will venture, first, to recall that the  aspirations of the new Turkey have harmoniously  coincided with the ideals and objectives of Unesco.  An organization assuming the task of dealing with  major questions such as fundamental education and  international understanding could not but merit the  attention of our country, which has long been exert-  ing itself in regard to them. This has been reflected  in Turkey's implementation of the programmes  adopted by the Ger .ral Conference; and our country  will likewise actively further, in every way it can,  the execution, on a national scale, of the various  resolutions adopted during the present session. I  shall not abuse your patience by discoursing at  length on the separate chapters of the reports,  which have been prepared with an admirable regard  for accuracy and scientific precision. Even a super-  ficial examination of the reports reveals substantial  progress in the Organization's activities. It can  be frankly said that, so far as the execution of its  programme is concerned, Unesco has done every-  thing in its power to facilitate the task of Member  States. Activities are beginning to assume clearer  shape and to concentrate on essential problems.  We are persuaded that, in time, the Organization  will be in a position fully to attain these objectives,  for the greater good of humanity. Many problems,  however, remain whose solution demands more  active collaboration from governments. Co-opera-  ting bodies are also faced with important tasks, if  Unesco's work is to become more effective.
(101) Having stressed the significance of the Orga-  nization's activities during the past year, ! shall  proceed, on behalf of my Government, to make  certain observations on Unesco's actual programme.
(102) We think that, if Unesco's action is to be  effective, the Organization should concentrate on  matters outside the competence and functions of  other United Nations Specialized Agencies or gov-  ernmental and non-governmental organizations  concerned with education, culture and science, In  other words, close co-operation with other Special-  ized Agencies is essential. In this way, in the  different subjects of the programme, the danger  of overlapping can be avoided. Our Government  also considers that, when the draft programme is  being prepared, the Executive Board should give  most careful consideration to the real needs of   PLENARY  Member States in the fields of education, science and  culture. The reports of Member States to the Gen-  eral Conference could provide a reliable source of  information as to the requirements of each country,  and one could thus draw up a simple, practical pro-  gramme in which certain essential subjects, such  as funcamental education and technical assistance,  would occupy the place they merit. Admittedly the  reports of Member States have, since the fifth  session of che General Conference, been studied by  a special committee set up by the Conference. But  this examination is in our view far from adequate,  since it is simply devoted to establishing how far  the reports conform to the plan evolved by the com-  mittee and proposed to Member States by the  Director-General, What is required is, not a purely  formal examinaticn which in time might become  over-mechanical, but a thorough study of common  problems and common needs, which would be deter-  mined systematically and listed in a genuine order  of priority. It would thus be desirable to expand the  qualifications and powers of the Committee on  Reports of Member States, in such a way that its  work would greatly facilitate the task of the Executive  Board when the draft programme was being drawn up.
(103) We hold that Unesco's relations with govern-  mental and non-governmental organizations merit  greater attention. Close collaboration with appropri-  ate bodies in this category would singularly lighten  the tasks and financial burdens of the Organization.  Certain activities might well be completely entrusted  to them. There are, in addition, organizations that  are even more specialized in the fields associated  with certain parts of Unesco's programme. In another  connexion, the working of the centres and institutes  set up by Unesco should be the subject of special treat  ment in the Director-General's report; in this way a  picture could be obtained of these institutions' achieve  ments, or of the difficulties impeding their  development.
(104) So far as fellowships are concerned, we favour  their further expansion, in relation to the actual  needs of each State.
(105) The steps taken by the Director-General to  deal with the delicate question of Unesco's admini-  strative services appear to meet the requirements  of good functioning within the Secretariat. New  methods of staff recruitment are necessary, in  order to achieve better output and a saving of  expense, such saving being employed for the execu:  tion of the programme itself. In our opinion broader  geographical distribution must be adopted in staff  recruitment, so as to enable all Member States to  collaborate effectively with the Organization. Apart  from the permanent posts, which demand continuity  of work, certain temporary functions might be  entrusted to skilled personalities, who would thus  acquire valuable human experience. To sum up, if  Unesco is to make its action effective and spread its  message abroad, it needs the active collaboration  of outstanding specialists and scholars from every  country.
(108) In conclusion, Mr, President, we wish all  success to Unesco, which, with a simple and  practical programme and through concrete achieve-  ments, will continue to serve the cause of peace  and international understanding, while remaining,    MEETINGS u-9  as ever above purely political considerations.
(107) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the  Spanish): I call upon Mr. Steinig, representative  of the United Nations.
(108) Mr. STEINIG (United Nations): Mr. Presi-  dent, ladies and gentlemen; with the wishes of  the Secretary-General of the United Nations for a  fruitful session of this General Conference and the  full success of your endeavours, I am desired to  express on his behalf deep appreciation of Unesco's  efforts to realize the fullest possible measure of  co-ordination of its activities with those of the  United Nations and its other Speciali:ed Agencies  and to thank the Director-General ard his staff for  their most active and helpful co-operation towards  this end. The United Nations welcome the emphasis  placed by Unesco upon full co-operation and parti-  cipation with the United Nations in projects origin-  ating in the General Assembly, the Fconomic and  Social Council and other organs of the United  Nations. As you know, United Nations organs have  specifically requested the collaboration of Unesco  in a number of fields and its participation in  certain major co-operative and joint programmes,  I need not enumerate them: they as well as the  Secretary-General's views are before you in the  different documents submitted by the Director-  General to this Conference.
(109) As you are no doubt aware, the Genera:  Assembly of the United Nations, now in session in  New York, 1s deliberating on certain projects which  are also on your agenda or are connected with it.  To mention only two: the peaceful uses of atomic  energy and the establishment of a Special United  Nations Fund for Economic Development - a  question on which the Second Committee of the  General Assembly took a decision yesterday after-  noon. It will be my duty to keep the Director-  General informed of developments in the General  Assembly of the United Nations, so that you may  have before you at the earliest possible moment  its views and decisions.
(110) To Uruguay, a momber of the United Nations,  its people and Government go, with our warm  thanks for their cordial hospitality, our wishes  for unbroken, steady progress in their efforts for  peace, social justice and freedom, We shall long  remember the moving ceremony in front of this  Palacio Legislativo on the opening day of this Con-  ference, when the children of Uruguay in their  distinctive, white uniforms witnessed the unfolding  of the flag of their country together with the flag  of the United Nations and the flags of the Member  States of Unesco, a symbol which, we hope, im-  pressed their young minds with the possibility of  the friendly peaceful coexistence of different  nations and cultures, the true concordia varietatis.
(111) I could not conclude these few remarks in a  manner more fitting to the occasion than by quoting  the question addressed about a fortnight ago by the  Secretary-General of the United Nations to an  illustrious audierce and, beyond it, to all of us.  On a solemn occasion during the ceremonies  accompanying the observance of Columbia Univer-  sity's Bicentenary, he said:  - 145 -
11-9 PLENARY  "Who questions the value of knowledge? And yet  we know that the challenging theme for the Columbia  University Bicentennial - Man's right to knowledge  and the free use thereof - draws attention to ideals  that are in need of defence. True, we all of us are  quick to recognize in principle the value of knowledge.  Yet we may hesitate to do what 1s necessary in order  to open wider access to knowledge for others or to  deepen our knowledge. Too often we even share in  reactions that can be explained only by a fear of  knowledge.  This contradiction - so prevalent in our generation,  so dangerous to the peace and progress of future  generations - is not a new one. Its cause is to be  found in attitudes common to all men and all times.  If we fear knowledge, and act under the ban of  such fear, is it not often because we fear change?  In order fully and freely to accept knowledge, and  what flows from knowledge, we have both to muster  the courage and possess the humility that enable us  to accept change. i  ('12) But the Secretary-General added: "We have
1c +t the optimistic faith held by some of our prede-  cessors that new knowledge would necessarily -  almost automatically - iead to new progress in  civilization. We have learned that whether changes  resulting from knowledge will be for the better or  worse fint'lv depends on ourselves, The very fact  that we feel this vus '»n of responsibility and see  more clearly the dangers w.:h which we must cope,  increases the temptation to resist change - and to  fear knowledge. In losing the easy optimism of a  preceding generation, we must not act as though we  had also lost the deep conviction of our predecessors  of the value of knowledge. We must act with undim-  inished faith in freedom of thought, freedom of  research, freedom of speech - in full knowledge of  the dangers involved in the changes we may set in  motion, but also of our own responsibility to give  that change creative direction.
(113) Pausing a moment to give thought to the ideas  formulated by the Secretary-Gerneral, it might not  be out of place to remember that, since the b-ginning  of this century and, more particularly, since the end  of the First World War, a chorus of voices from  different quarters has not ceased to assure us that  the motives which precipitate man cn his course to  self-destruction are inscrutable and, consequently,  permanently effective. Since then the appearance  of atomic weapons, prophecies of catastrophes have  painted nightmarish pictures of unrelieved gloom.  We need not share this deeply pessimistic, negative  view of man's future, this outright negation of the  valid concept of equal chances expressed in memor-  able words in the opening seatence of Unesco's  Constitution, that peace and war alike have their  origin in man's mind. For what are the facts?  During this same half-century science has opened  new avenues to man's knowledge about himself and  about the motives of his actions and, although he  resists self-knowledge with firm determination,  man will have to acquire it if he is to survive.
(114) Science does not always enable us to control  events, but it almost always increases man's  chances to influence their course and direction.
(115) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish)    MEETINGS  I call upon the representative of Laos.
(116) Princess Souvanna PHOUMA (Laos) (Trans-  lation from the French): Mr, President, Mr.  Director-General and colleagues, | must confess  that I long hesitated to enter my name on the list  of speakers taking part in the discussion of the  report of the Director-General,
(117) I hesitated, because the calibre and eloquence  of the previous speakers, the constructive comments  made and the eulogies pronounced were bound to  contrast with my own humble effort. ! wanted to  draw your attention, Mr. Director-General, to the  fact that, although you left Paris - left France - on  a Journey to the Far East, you completely passed  over, on that journey, the few Member States of  Unesco which, alone in the far east of the old world,  employ the French language.
(118) Lack of security, I should have thought, could  hardly have been a reason for your not visiting us.  You will have realized that we would have taken  greater care of your life than of our own. As for  educational problems, they have continued to absorb  our attention no less and indeed even more than in  time of peace; for though we have had other things  too to think of, our rising generation has not been  stopped in its growth, and has been insistently  claiming the attention to which it was entitled.  {119) I think you would have been interested by the  grafting of French culture and education on to a  country having its own culture derived from two  eminently humanistic sources, one stemming from  ancient China and the other from ancient India.  The remains of magnificent Buddhist monuments,  and the dances inspired by ancient tradition, would  at Luang Prabang have shown you, for instance, in  the unfolding of the scenes of the Ramayana, the  picture of Jatayous the Vulture in alliance with Rama  attempting to deliver the beautiful Sida from the  hands of her ravisher. Such are a few examples  drawn from the artistic, religious and literary  past of my country.
(120) We should have been happy to show you the  lycées and schools coexisting with this ancient  and deep-rooted culture, and to submit to you the  pressing problems demanding quick and effective  solution,
(121) In short, Mr. Director-General, my country  would have been comforted by a friendly gesture,  or even the intention of one, in our time of trial,  which has now lasted for nearly ten years. While  we were struggling to preserve the integrity of our  territory and to gain our place in the sun, we  should have appreciated recognition from a friend  who knew us.
(122) It is beca .se we have survived these storms  that I can convey to you, today, the feelings of my  country on reading the important report which you  have drawn up.
(123) The tireless activity that Unesco has dis-  played under your leadership, the results obtained  in the few years of its existence, the wide scope  of the projects, the success of the work under-  taken, and the increase in the number of Member  States - all this provides, once more, convincing  proof of the nobility and solid achievement of this  magnificent and fascinating human enterprise.  - 146 -   PLENARY
(124) This success is partly due to the efforts of all  the experts whose meetings and research had made  it possible for Unesco to publish its very informa-  tive booklets. The report also reveals the unobtru-  sive but highly effective part played by the Executive  Board, whose members have continued to meet in  order to prepare for us a large proportion of our  Conference working papers. Our thanks are due  to them all.
(125) The execution of the programme has obviously,  as the report shows, been a difficult matter, and it  must be admitted that in most fields it has been  carried out adrnirably. The chapter on technical  assistance attracted my particular attention because,  as | have already pointed out on many occasions,  this form of assistance is essential to us as a means  of acceleratirg our educational programme. When  reading the list of recipients I noticed, with pleasure  but surprise, the very large amount of aid granted  to the first country mentioned - a country on the  continent of Africa. I have no wish to embark on  statistics or to draw comparisons, and went no  further into the matter. But ! should like to ask  the representative of the friendly country in question  how he managed to make himself heard and to find ...  a helping hand. And I fear ! must urge, Mr. Direct-  or-General, that you revise your technical assist-  ance projects so far as my country is concerned.
(126) Laos wishes to live in peace and will certainly  develop better, in the peaceful atmosphere now at  last restored to it, the spirit of international  understanding and human solidarity. We are,  unfortunately, only too well placed to appreciate  the inestimable value of such an attitude.
(127) All praise and honour in the history of humanity  ir those who, no sooner had a term been put to the  horrors of the most terrible of wars, began to lay  the foundations for the improvement, through science  and culture, of the spirit and condition of man,
(128) The presence of all of us here, in a country  which has given us so kindly an invitation and welcome,  bears witness once again to our community of aspi-  ration and to our world-wide friendship - a true  friendship, born of repeated meetings, and trans-  cending frontiers, oceans, races or creeds.
(129) In the name of my country I have the agreeable  task of expressing to the Uruguayan Government and  people my greetings and my thanks for the hospitality  we are enjoying on the occasion of this eighth session  of Unesco's General Conference.
(130) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Span-  ish): 1 call upon the delegate of Mexico.
(131) Mr. ROMANO MUNOZ (Mexico) {Translation  trom the Spanish): Mr. President, ladies and  gentlemen, the delegation of Mexico has particular  pleasure in conveying its greetings and respects to  the Government o this sister Republic of Uruguay  and in expressirg its most warm and cordial grati-  tude for the deli,htful hospitality extended to us,  which has so rictly earned our thanks.
(132) Mexico, a country where freedom and gemuine  democracy flourish, has been greatly impressed,  in the person of its representative, by the dignified  yet enthusiastic contest in which the people here are  engaging for the election of the highest authorities  - 147 -     MEETINGS 11-9  of this sister country of Uruguay; this land, where  freedom and genuine democracy likewise prevail,  has thus become the spokesman of the ideals and  the conscience of America. Our country is greatly  interested in the constructive work of Unesco.  Patzcuaro is the headquarters of the Regional  Fundamental Education Centre for Latin America,  known by the abbreviation CREFAL; and in Mexico  City we have a Scientific and Technical Document-  ation Centre which is designed to provide useful  scientific information and documentation for all  Latin American countries, Finally, thanks to the  efficient work of its National Commission for  Unesco, our country is effectively helping to  develop the Organization's programme, throughout  our national territory, by means of special missions  in each of the most important towns.
(133) Mexico has complete trust and confidence in  Unesco's world-wide activities; and for that reason  it hopes and desires that at no time and on no pre-  text will anything be done to detract from the part  this Organization plays as an agency for the pro-  motion of peace solely through education, science  and culture.
(134) The world desires to live in peace, and  Unesco has at its command the best known means  of achieving a system of peaceful coexistence. It  is therefore our duty and responsibility to do  everything necessary for attaining so noble an end.
(135) Our country is very pleased at the Secreta-  riat's decision to concentrate the financial resources  of the Organization on the conduct of a very few  practical programme projects, for this will lead  to greater efficiency and more constructive results.  We offer our congratulations.
(136) The delegation of Mexico is particularly  anxious that the budget of Unesco should be as  large as possible, as our distinguished compatriot,  Mr. Torres Bodet, foresaw and recommended  during the tine when he was Director-General of  the Organization. We therefore favour maintaining  the present annual contributions of the Member  States and using the contributions of the new Mem-  bers to increase the budget, so as to expand our  resources and create greater opportunities for  extending and improving our work.
(137) If this should not be practicable, we hope in  any case that means will be found of balancing the  budget as satisfactorily as possible. We take this  opportunity of extending a most cordial welcome  to the representatives of the States which have  recently become Members of Unesco and are  taking part in the Orgaaization's General Confer-  ence for the first time.
(138) The world has great hopes of the contribution  they will make to our work, and we are confident  that the concerted efforts of all will finally bring,  to all individuals and peoples, renewed faith and  trust in the attainment of peace by the noble paths  of culture, friendly international co-operation and  true goodwill.
(139) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Span-  ish): I call upon the delegate of Cambodia.
(140) Mr. KIMNY (Cambodia) (Translation from  the French): Mr. President and delegates, the
11-9 PLENARY  Cambodian delegation wishes first to thank the Gov-  ernment of Uruguay and the City of Montevideo for  the most friendly welcome extended to it. The gen-  erous and spontaneous hospitality we have received  can only increase our admiration for this country's  progress and development in all fields - economic,  political, sciantific and cultural. We are particu-  larly grateful to the Uruguayan Government for  enabling us, while doing our work here at Unesco's  eighth session of its General Conference in the most  agreeable atmosphere and surroundings, to get to  know this great and beautiful country and to appreci-  ate it better.
(141) The Cambodian delegation likewise wishes, at  the outset of the Conference to render public tribute  to the Unesco Secretariat for the helpful understand-  ing it has always shown for the particularly difficult  problems facing Cambodia in the fields of education,  science and culture.
(142) Thanks to the valuable co-operation and assist-  ance of its experts, we have been able to begin imple-  menting certain parts of the Unesco programme,  especially the improvement of the system of free  compulsory education and the institution of fundamental  and adult education.
(145) Since our country became a member of Unesco,  the national liaison body has been co-operating with  the Secretariat ever more closely and fruitfully. The  people of Cambodia is more than ever aware of the  importance of the work done, and the noble aim  pursued, by this great community of nations of  goodwill,
(144) We have followed th« life of the Organization  with the greatest interest, in times of difficulty as  in periods of success; and we can record, with sat-  isfaction, that during the past few years Unesco's  action has become increasingly effective.
(145) This progress can doubtless be partly ascribed  to the system of biennial sessions of the Conference;  but much of the credit is due to the Secretariat and  its outstanding Director-General.
(146) The task remains a vast one and the problems  facing the General Conference become more varied  and more considerab!e with each session, in pro-  portion as the Organization itself develops.
(147) Other speakers, in particular the Director-  General and the Chairman of the Executive Board,  have already emphasized the scope of Unesco's  accomplishments in every sphere embraced over  the past nine years throughout its sphere of action,  and have dwelt on the difficulties encountered and  the perspectives of future action.
(148) The Cambodian delegation associates itself  with the conclusions contained in the report of the  Director-General. It considers that important new  advances have been made and has noted, with lively  satisfaction, the new trend in the Organization's  programme. The excellent report of the Director-  General shows that, for the first time, Unesco's  action is emerging from the stage of trial and error  and is now decisively entering upon that of practical  achievement. The criteria and priorities adopted  at the seventh session of the General Conference  have been faithfully observed. Specific tasks have  been defined and spheres of action delimited, in  accordance with the Organization's fundamental  aims. To sum up, the programme established  - 148 -     MEETINGS  in 1952 is well on the way to practical  realization.
(148) The Cambodian delegation particularly wishes,  at this point, to record its satisfaction with the very  proper principles underlying the preparation of the  Proposed Programme and Budget for 1955-56. I  refer to the division, within the traditional sections,  of each chapter into two parts - a long-term pro-  gramme confined to international action for the  benefit of all of the Member States, and the short-  term programme designed to solve specific problems  in certain States - problems which elsewhere may  not exist, or at least may not arise with the same  urgency. This distinction corresponds to the de  facto existence of two categories of Member States -  the advanced countries and the so-called under-  developed countries.
(150) The Cambodian delegation is of opinion that,  while ‘he principle of mutual co-operation and  assistance must prevail uniformly and absolutely  among all Unesco's Member States, the problems  necessarily differ from country to country and the  methods to be applied in order to overcome tiem  must also, therefore, differ in each country. The  Director-General's remarks on this poirt are very  pertinent, clear and judicious.
(151) The need to draw such a distinction has in  fact long been evident; but everyone had a different  view of the way in which it might be translated into  fact without risking fragmentation of the programme  itself, The ciear-sightedness of the Executive  Board and the efficiency of the Secretariat have  together been instrumental in giving the programme  a new trend, to the general satisfaction.
(152) On the one hand, each single Member State  is now sure of receiving assistance better adapted  to its own needs. On the other, by undertaking only  projects based on strictly available resources,  Unesco has increased its chances of successfully  achieving its short-term programme.
(153) There is, however, another aspect of the  question to which the Cambodian delegation wishes  to draw attention - namely, the implementation by  Member States of the new provisions of the pro-  gramme as thus modified. Can this programme  achieve real results if Unesco continues to confine  itself to making more or less general recommend-  ations, which more often than not fail to attract the  notice of States, even though the latter may, on  occasion, be directly concerned by them?
(154) In our opinion the Secretariat should select,  from among the recommendations of the General  Conference, those inspired by the internal situation  of certain specific countries in the field of education,  science and culture. It should draw the attention of  those particular countries to the recommendations  in question, closely following their subsequent  implementation through an individual exchange of  correspondence, and not by the general procedures  adopted in the past.
(155) May I close these few remarks by expressing,  in regard to the present programme as a whole, my  country's confidence in the success of Unesco's  action for world peace and prosperity.
(156) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Span-  ish): I call upon the delegate of Viet-Nam.   PLENARY
(157) Mr. VO VAN LUA (Viet-Nam) (Translation  from the Frencn): Mr. President, ladies and  gentlemen: The delegation of Viet-Nam, although  among the last to take the floor, associates itself  no less warmly ard sincerely with the tributes paid  to the friendly feeling shown by the Uruguayan Gov-  ernment and people towards the delegates to the  eighth session of the General Conference, here in  Latin America.
(158) Our delegation is at one with all the delegates  in stressing the great clear-sightedness which the  Directr.r-General and Unesco's Secretariat have  show’: over the preparation of the proposed programme  for 1955 and 1956, and in paying tribute to the former  as to the latter for the outstanding and untiring  devotion they have brought to the execution of the  decisions and resolutions of the seventh session of  the General Conference.
(159) Indeed, since I have been a member of my  ccuntry's National Commission for Unesco I have  gained a very clear insight into the difficulties which  the Organization has to face and surmount in the  pursuit of its ideals - on the one hand, the promction  of international understanding and, on the other, the  pursuit of agreement among the peoples, of lasting  peace among the nations.
(160) These ideals Unesco must translate into  reality by a method simple and inexpensive - the  education and training of individuals' hearts and  minds, I say simple and inexpensive because, in  every State in the world, there are natioral Ministries  of Education with access of budgetary resources.
(161) Nevertheless, if we read the programmes of  the Organization, we see that Unesco has set itself  a gigantic task, outstripping its financial and  material resources and liable, to a certain extent,  to create uneasiness among the nations called upon  to finance Unesco's various undertakings. The  reason is, and will long continue to be, the specific  and differing needs of Member States, needs which  the Organization is bound to try to meet, partially,  if not completely.
(162) To speak in more concrete terms, and to  adhere to facts, - e could say, with our colleague  of Cambodia, that Unesco's Member States at present  comprise exceptionally advanced nations, such as  the United States of America, France and Great  Britain, and other nations less advanced, economi-  cally underdeveloped, and under-prepared for  fruitful international co-operation, such as Viet-Nam.
(163) These differences in evolution and development  give rise to different and often contradictory require-  ments, Viet-Nam, for instance, needs technical  assistance from Unesco in order to combat the illi-  teracy which still, unfortunately, largely pervades  its territory; it needs Unesco's technical aid in  order to develop fundamental education. It thereby  creates financial problems for the Organization.  Other Member States, however, which are not  afflicted by the same evils as Viet-Nam, are  asking, for example, that Unesco concern itself  with the construction of scientific research  centres of international scope; these would  certainly contribute to the advance of civiliza-  tion but can present no immediate interest for  Viet-Nam or for any other country in a  similar position.  MEETINGS 1-9
(164) All these conflicts between the needs of  Member States have the result that the Organiza-  tion's action is constantly expanding to cover a  wide diversity of problems and daily increasing in  scope, at a cost that is beyond Unesco's present  financial resources,
(165) The people and Government of Viet-Nam  have i 1lly understood this situation. When, last  September, the Viet-Nam National Commission for  Unesco produced a programme for the establish-  ment of a fundamental education centre with a  definitely professional and technical complexion,  it shrank from raising the financial issues neces-  sarily involved. But if we avoid mention of such  financial questions, that does not mean they do not  exist, or that we are able to solve them with our  own resources.
(166) Public opinion wishes to believe that Unesco  ought to help us to solve them; it knows nothing of  Unesco's budgetary difficulties, or of the specific  obligations of the Organization towards its Member  States. Yet public opinion - not merely in Viet-Nam,  but in most of the countries of the Unesco family -  creates the power and prestige of the Organization  throughout the world, and contributes to the success-  ful implementation of Unesco's doctrines and ideals.
(167) Thus from every point of view it is ta Unesco's  advantage to deal with the problem of how the pro-  jects launched in its name, and on its moral respon-  sibility, are to be financed. Instead of drawing on  its limited funds to complete no more than half of  its difficult task, and even so at the cost of certain  Member States which often have only a remote  interest in the particular undertakings involved,  could not the Organization devise a better solution,  whereby Member States would cease to be divided,  so to speak, into two clans - on the one hand the  donors, on the other the receivers (or parasites).
(168) This readjustment, if it is to be fair, must  be made at the cost of the beneficiary party. It has  already been applied in favour of certain Member  States, with assistance from various international  credit organizations. Unesco need have no direct  part in any such action.
(169) But the solution itself is a good one and  Unesco might well adopt it, applying it generally  whenever the financing work undertaken in its name  and on its moral responsibility in any Member States  so required. What 1s now accidental and exceptional  would in ite future become a rule, a principle of  action.
(170) Beforz the opening of the present session of  Unesco's Ge eral Conference, the question of  finance was caised by certain delegates in the  Advisory Coiamittee on Programme and Budget.  They approached this problem with the implicit  intention cf solving it. We hope, indeed, that it  van be solved. It cannot, however, be solved by  concentrating Unesco's efforts on a small number  of objectives. Certain delegations have advocated  such concentration; and it has, ~f course, the  merit of wisdom and of unquestionable practical  value. All the same, 1 wonder how the Organization  could settle the choice of such objectives, if it  desired that thev should meet the wishes and needs  of all the Member States - wishes and needs that   differ so greatly from country to country, and cease  - 149 -   u-9 PLENARY  to follow the same order of priority as soon as we  pass from the interests of one member of Unesco to  those of another.
(171) The inevitable result of such a policy would  ku to sacrifice a proportion of the Member States  to th- rest of the Unesco family, and even to favour  the aspirations of some at the expense of the major-  ity. And Member States which felt thus injured, or  disappointed in their expectations, would undou»tedly  lose interest in “he activities of the Organization and  might, indeed, withdraw from it alcogether.
(172) Thus Unesco, whose aim it is to embrace  communities differing fundamentally in their needs,  degree of advancement and economic and cultural  development, finds itself in a cruei dilemma in face  of a diversity of interests, each as legitimate as the  other. The problem of financing its undertakings  may now be compared to that of squaring the circle;  and the dilemma cannot be solved by neglecting some  Member States to the advantage of others.
(173) ‘The many different forms of Unesco's action,  and the thousand and one facets of its programme,  represent an ingenious but burdensome compromise -  the only one, however, which can at present satisfy  all quarters, or even safeguard the Organization's  very existence. Through these many-sided activities  and programm s, Unesco, as the Director-General's  report for 1953 and 1954 shews, has embarked upon  much that is designed to prepare all men's minds  and consciences for living in a better world, in an  atmosphere of peace and good understanding. And  in this Unesco has been successful. There is no  reason why it should halt on so promising a road,  why it should alter its attitude.
(174) Whatever be its fate, Viet-Nam will remain  faithful to Unesco, for the Organization is pursuing  one of the noblest aims of man - to inaugurate the  reign of friendship and love among the peoples, and  this through the medium most acceptable to man's  self-respect, namely the heart and the mind.
(175) Once the intellectual and moral frontiers have  been crossed, political bar-iers will soon fall, and  the tablets of history will then record the greatest  victory of Unesco, the last victory to be aimed at by  the men of goodwill now assembled in this magnificent  hall of Uruguayan democracy, the Palacio Legislativo  under the banner of absolute community of thought,  idea and feeling.
(176) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Span-  ish): I call upon the representative of the Orgamza-  tion of American States.
(177) Mr. SANCHEZ REULET (Organization of  American States): Mr. President, ladies and  gentlemen. In the vibrant speech that my colleague  and friend, Dr. Guillermo Nannetti, made to this  assembly he reported on various aspects of the pro-  gramme that Unesco and the Organization of Ameri-  can States are carrying out together for the purpose  of combating illiteracy and furthering fundamental  education in Latin America. Collaboration between  these two organizations has not, however, been  limited to the field of education - although this  appears to be the field in which collaboration has  so far been most fruitful - it has also extended to  other branches of science and culture. It is now my  - 150 -  MEETINGS  privilege to review the activities that the two  organizations have been carrying out since the last  General Conference of Unesco, for the promotion  of knowledge and scientific research, the protection  of copyright, the improvement of libraries, the  development of bibliographic studies, and the dis-  semination of the works uf the writers and artists  of the Americas.
(178) So for as the exact and natural sciences are  cor..erned, it is well to remember, first of all,  that our Section of Science and Technology has  maintained constant and cordial relations with the  Science Co-operation Office that functions here in  Montevideo and also with Unesco's Department of  Natural Sciences in Paris. The relations with the  Montevideo office have been in k:eping with the  terms of the agreement that was signed in Wash-  ington in February of last year at the first meeting  of the OAS-Unesco Joint Committee on Co-ordina-  tion and, true to the spirit of this agreement, dup-  lication of functions has been avoided.
(179) The Science and Technulogy Section has also  collaborated with the Mexican Scientific and Tech-  nical Docurnentation Centre, which institution was  established by Unesco but has since become a  branch of the Mexican Government, by sending it  collections of specialized periodicais and informa-  tion material. Through its publications, it has  likewise helped to make known the work that Unesco  is doing to encourage the advancement of science  in Latin America. Unesco, for its part, has uti-  lized the materiais 5repared by our Scientific  Inform ation Service and given them wide publicity  in more than five thousand newspapers of the world.
(180) Cullabcration between the two organizations  should be intensified. To this end, our Section of  Science and Technology hopes to be able to parti-  cipate more actively ir the scientific meetings and  seminars organized by the Montevideo office. It  would also be desirable to study the possibility of  co-ordinating some of these meetings with the  seminar that OAS plans to carry out in 1955-56 to  consider the problem of science teaching in  Latin America.
(181) The basis for collaboration in the social  sciences was established at a special meeting held  for this purpose in Washington in March 1953.  This collaboration has so far been limited because  the two organizations' programmes for this period  had already been approved and were in process of  execution.
(182) However, our Social Sciences Section has  co-operated in the work of Unesco by sending in-  formation to the Regional Centre of Unesco at  Havana on researchers, institutions, periodicals  and specialized libraries in Latin America. It  likewise participated in the preparations for and  meetings of the round table on social science  teaching that was held in Costa Rica in July of this  year under the auspices of Unesco. This office  has also prepared the Latin American section of  the International Register of Current Team Res arch  in the Social Sciences, ior publication by Unesco in   1954. In addition, it furnishes bibliographic inform-  ation on Latin America to Current Sociology and to  the International Committee on Social Science  Documentation.    PLENARY
(183) It is to be hoped that this initial collaboration  will grow. OAS hopes to take part in the preparatory  work of the second meeting of the round table on the  teaching of the social sciences in Latin America,  which Unesco plans to hold in 1955. It would also  be willing to collaborate in the Meeting of Immigi a-  tion Experts. In this matter, the migration studies  made by the specialists of our Department of Econo-  mic and Social Affairs provide valuable bac aground  information that should be utilized.
(184) There are still other forms of collaboration  to be studied. For example, there :s the possibility  of launching a programme for the translation into  Spanish of important works in the social science  field. We have a small sum set aside in our 1955-56  budget for this purpose.
(185) The Organization of American States, which  has for more than sixty years been concerned with  copyright protection, has participated in the work  done by Unesco for the establishment of a Universal  Copyright Convention. The Secretariat of OAS  called a meeting of exnerts of the American countries  for the purpose of studying the possibility of co-  ordinating the principles of the planned Universal  Convention with those of inter-American treaties  and conventions. This meeting was held in Washing-  ton in 1952 and it was responsible for the paragraph  which later became Article XVIII of the Universal  Convention approved in September of that year at  Geneva, This article provides that, in the event of  differences between the provisions of the Universal  Convention and those of inter-American conventions  the most recently formulated Convention shall  prevail between the contracting parties.
(186) Finally, OAS hopes to collaborate with Unesco  in the publication of copyright protection laws of  countries throughout the world, and to this end 1s  prepared to compile and publish the laws of the  American countries and those of Spain and Portugal.
(187) In the field of libraries and bibliography  collaboration between the two organizations has been  narticularly close. Both agencies helped to organ-  ize the Technical Meeting of Agricultural Librarians  held in Costa Rica last year at the suggestion of the  Inter-American Institute of Agricultural Sciences,  Our library - which is known as the Columbus Mem-  orial Library - regularly provides lists and catalogue  cards of various kinds to the Unesco offices in Paris  and Havana and to the Fundamental Education Centre  at Patzcuaro. It also sends a regular report on  important news in the field of library science in  Latin America. The Columbus Memorial Library  is in close touch with the Unesco specialist at the  Havana Regional Office and has requested his advice  at different times. This was done, for example, in  the case of the Dewey Decimal Classification System,  which is being translated by OAS and which it hopes  to publish very soon.
(188) In connexion with bibliographical activities  we should mention that our Secretariat regularly  sends to Paris catalogue cards for the Index Trans-  lationum and that it has in principle accepted res-  ponsibility for the translation and publication in  Spanish of Unesco's Bibliographical Handbooks.
(189) Looking to the future, OAS hopes to take part  in the organization of a Conference on the Interchange  of Publications, to be held in Havana in 1956, and to  - 151 -     MEETINGS 11-9  send a representative to the World Congress of  Librarians in Brussels next year, Lastly, we hope  very soon to hold an inter-American seminar for  teachers of library science, under the auspices of  both organizations, in accordance with the recom-  mendation made by the Sao Paulo Conference of  Librarians,
(190) Although there is no express agreement  between Unesco and OAS for the promotion and  publicizing of musical activities, the Music Section  of the Pan-American Union has for years attended  meetings of the International Music Council, wh::h,  as we know, is supported by Unesco. in accordance  with a recommendatinn of the Inter-American  Cultural Council, this section is at this moment  taking s'èps for the establiskment of an Inter-  American Music Council that will function as an  integral part of the world organization and bring  all the countries of the Hemisphere together at its  seat.
(191) Unfortunately, 1n the field of fine arts, there  has not as yet been any real collaboration between  the offices concerned. It is timely, therefore, to  recall the recommendations that were made at the  meeting held by the Co-ordinating Committee in  Washington in February of last year with respect  to the organization of circulating exhibits, the  furnishing of slides on American art and the publi-  cation of guides to public collections in the Ameri-  can countries. Here I might mention that OAS is  now preparing the third volume of these guides,  which will cover Mexico, the Central American  countries and the Caribbean region.
(192) A cultural activity in which collaboration  between the two organizations is beginning to pro-  duce excellent results is the programme for the  translation and publication, in French and English,  of representative works of Latin American literature  and thought. As we know, this programme was  started by Unesco on a recommendation made by  the General Assembly of the United Nations in 1946  to the effect that it was necessary to start a pro-  gramme for the translation of the classics, especi-  ally those of countries whose literature was least  known. This programme, in so far as Latin Ameri-  can literature is concerned, took shape in the pub-  lication in French of three works: Enriquillo, by  Manuel de Jesus Galvan, an Anthology of Mexican  Poetry, compiled by Octavio Paz, and a volume of  the Paginas Escogidas of Marti. Further, OAS had  for some time expressed its desire to collaborate  in the development of this programme. As a result  of negotiations between the respective offices, an  agreement was finally reached by which the two or-  gamizations would assume jo.ni responsibility for  the translation programme. Under this agreement,  Unesco will from now on be directly respons+ble for  the publication of the works in French and OAS for  their publication in English. In this agreement OAS  has also undertaken to present a list of works whose  translation is most desiratle and to furnish Unesco  with their respective texts, which obligation it has  been meticulously fulfilling.
(193) My Organization has signed a contract with  the University of Indiana for the publication in the  United States of America oi the th: _e¢ aforementioned  works. Up to now, Enriquillo ‘the Englisn title of    I-10 PLENARY  which is The Cross and the Sword) is t>e only one that  has been published, but the Anthology of Mexican  Poetry and the Marti volume will be released within  the next twelve months. We are now negotiating for  the publication of two more volumes: Los {ltimos  dias coloniales en el Alto Perû by Gabriel René-  Moreno, and Tabaré by the great Uruguayan poet  Zorrilla de San Martin. The translation of ail the  aforesaid works was the responsibility of Unesco.  OAS has also assumed responsibility for a new trans-  lation of the Comentaries Reales by Inca Garcilaso  and has started to negotiate for the translation and  publication of a volume of Cuentos by Monteiro  Lobato and Viajes by Sarmiento.
(194) I regret having taken up more time than I  should have with an extremely detailed and almost  bureaucratic account of the activities that are being  carried out jointly in Latin America by Unesco and    MEETINGS  OAS in the various branches of science and culture.  But small, everyday activities are as important in  the life of man as the exploits of great heroes.
(195) The noble aim of Unesco is to ensure justice,  freedom and peace, through education, science and  culture. And it is also the purpose that inspires the  countries of the Organization of American States,  But the realization of this ideal, this hope, this grand  dream necessarily lies in the hands of a legion of  obscure heroes - teachers, writers, artists, scien-  tists, thinkers - and to these we must finally add all  men of goodwiil. We are gathered here on this soil  of Uruguay, in this land that is receiving us so gen-  erously, and in an atmosphere of freedom, tolerance  and democratic dignity, to give impetus to this idea,  this hope, this grand dream,  The meeting rose at 1.30 p.m.  TENTH PLENARY MEETING
17 November 1954 at 3.45 p.m.  President: Mr. ZAVALA MUNIZ (Uruguay)  CONTENTS  Discussion of the Director-General's Report (end): Speeches  by the delegates of Liberia, Honduras, Bolivia and Nicaragua . . 152  Reply by the Director- General  DISCUSSION OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL'S REPORT
(1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spamsh):
1 call upon the Head of the delegation of Liberia.
(2) Mr. KNIGHT (Liberia): Mr. President and  fellow delegates: The delegation of Liberia would  have liked to take a far larger share than this in the  lively, inspiring and most profitable debate on the  reports of the Executive Board and the Director-  General, so befittingly commented upon by the dele-  gates who have preceded me.
(3) The pattern of mutual understanding and joint  co-operation that has characterized the contacts,  intercourse and activities between the Secretariat  and my Government and the mutual benefits already  derived therefrom are too important and spectacular  not to be at least amplified before this assembly.  Even these brief remarks do not, in the opinion of  my Government and delegation, adequately convey  their gratitude for the interest and assistance ac-  corded us by the Director-General, through the  Secretariat's technical assistance programme,
(4) My delegation had hoped that by now, our  Chairman, Professor Massaquoi, would have  arrived with such views, comments and suggestions  as our Government would desire the delegation to  offer during the general debate. But owing perhaps,  to an extended schedule of the visit to the United  States of America, paid at the kind invitation of  President Eisenhower, by c .r illustrious Chief of  State, accompanied by Professor Massaquoi, it  seems, however, that our Chairman will only  arrive within the next five or ten days.
(5) The delegation of Liberia could not permit this  debate to terminate without recording the layman's    #4 60 1 2 0 0 6 0 + + >» XY  views and considerations of the ultimate meaning  and objectives of our honoured institution. So far  as the cultivation and development of human rela-  tions are concerned, we are completely convinced  that Unesco is the only solid foundation of a lasting  universal peace.
(6) We are privileged to have been accredited to  the seventh session of the General Conference,  which has now passed into history as a most criti-  cal stage in Unesco's development, if not the real  test of its will to survive. Even the most pre ju-  diced, if there be any, might unhesitatingly join in  the chorus of praise and commendation, first, to  Dr. Taylor, whose difficult and unenviable lot it  was to fill the unfortunate breach in the walls of  Unesco's solidarity, occasioned by the sudden  resignation of Dr, Torres Bodet, and the very  serious repercussions that followed. Secondly, to  Dr. Luther Evans, our resourceful, progressive  and highly specialized Director-General.
(7) The glowing tributes paid to these eminent  intellectuals and adininistrators by previous spea-  kers are no mere platitudes; they are a genuine  acknowledgment of gratitude for universal humani-  tarian services well performed. My country and  delegation most enthusiastically and sincerely join  in this chorus.
(8) With particular regard to specific projects  jointly undertaken by Unesco, through its technical  assistance services, and my Government, the  report of the Director-General contains an up-to-  date account. In the considered view of the Liberian  Government and people, Unesco has demonstrated  the kind of co-operation that could be emulated  with advantage internationally, by the successful  - 152 -