(17) Uruguay's valuable contribution to Unesco's  objectives deserved the fullest appreciation. The  increasingly good relations between that progressive  country and Unesco called for special mention.
(18) Mr. Teran Robalino suggested that the present  session of the General Conference should congratulate  the Government of Uruguay on having formed the  Specialized Commissions which had done so much  to facilitate the work of the Executive Committee of  the National Commission in preparing for the eighth  session of the General Conference. The Specialized  Commissions also should be congratulated on the  excellence of their services and their efficient col-  laboration in organizing the work of the Conference.
(19) That suggestion of the delegate of Ecuador was  seconued by the delegate of the Dominican  Republic.
(20) The CHAIRMAN, after thanking the delegate  of Ecuador for his report, said that a few Spanish-  speaking countries remained to be reported on at  the afternoon meeting, at which the Committee would  doubtless wish to consider the suggestions made by  the delegate of Ecuador in connexion with the report  by Uruguay  The meeting rose at 12. 55 p. m.  FIFTH MEETING
18 November 1954 at 3.45p.m.  Chairman : Mr. AL-HANI (Iraq)  ITEM 10.2 OF REVISED AGENDA : CONSIDERATION OF  REPORTS PRESENTED BY MEMBER STATES FOR 1952-53  (continued)
(1) The CHAIRMAN declared the meeting open and  said that the reports submitted by the delegates of  Ecuador and the Domimcan Republic would now be  heard; those were the reports dealing with the last  of the Member States' reports which the Spamsh-  language working party had been appointed to study.
(2) Mr. TERAN ROBALINO (Ecuador) submitted  the report by the delegate of the Dominican Republic  dealing with the Member State reports from Chile  and Ecuador. He also presented his own report on  the reports from Costa Rica and the Dominican  Republic. The conclusions were as follows:
(3) Chile had shown goodwill in implementing the  programme proposed. However, 1t should be  recommended to submit fuller reports.
(4) As regarded Ecuador, projects should be  stimulated, particularly in the national field.
(5) Costa Rica had carried out useful activities.
(6) The Dominican Republic, according to its report,  was making ‘real conquests in the field of education",  and future reports should deal with all points  connected with Unesco's programme, agreements  and conventions.
(7) The CHAIRMAN thanked the delegates of  Ecuador and the Dominican Republic for thet.  reports. He asked the Committee whether 1t would  prefer to hold a discussion after each group of  reports, or wait until they had all been heard. After  a brief discussion, it was decided that the debate  would take place on 29 November, when all reports  had been submitted and, if necessary, a further    meeting could be held between that date and
6 December, when the final report was to be drawn  up for presentation to the General Conference.
(8) Miss BISHOP (United Kingdom) presented the  comments of the first English-speaking group on the  reports of the following Member States:  Afghanistan
(9) The report did not follow the proposed plan and  dealt principally with the general state of education  in the country, emphasizing the need for assistance  from "foreign organizations’. Although assistance  from Unesco had been limited, Afghanistan was  grateful for the few measures already taken in  various fields.
(10) Afghanistan, Miss Bishop noted, had taken part  in the regional education conference in New Delhi,  and in the scientific conference at Karachi.
(11) Assistance might be assumed to be needed in  the training of National Commission personnel and  in the execution of programme activities. Public  relations were of lesser importance.  Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
(12) No information was given on the ratification of  international conventions and very little about the  implementation of Unesco resolutions.
(13) Unesco was criticized for lack of assistance to  that Member State. The only project in which the  Organization collaborated was the women's training  college. The Courier had been actively distributed,  but dissatisfaction had been felt over an article on  Israel. Jordan also regretted the cancellation of the  Regional Conference of National Commissions.
(14) Up to the present, the Ministry of Education had  acted as National Commission, but the creation of a  new National Commission, of which the Minister of  Education would be Chairman, h d been discussed  - 913 -   X-5 COMMITTEE ON REPORTS OF MEMBER STATES  with the Unesco External Relations Officer for  the Middle East.  Korea
(15) Three agreements were at present being  studied: the Agreement for Facilitating the Inter-  national Circulation of Visual and Auditory Materials,  the Agreement on the Importation of Educational,  Scientific and Cultural Materials, and the Convention  on the International Computation Centre.
(16) No specific information was given on the  implementation of Unesco resolutions.
(17) The report contained useful general information  on educational reconstruction, but it was not always  easy to perceive how much had been done by the  Government alone, and how much in combination  with the Specialized Agencies. Korea was, however,  concerned with international understanding, the  exchange of persons, and the preservation of the  cultural heritage of mankind. It was trying to reduce  obstacles to the free flow of information. A serious  need was felt for translations of the world's classics.
(18) General educational reconstruction had been  assisted by Unesco. The National Commission had  been organized in January 1954 with a Government  grant. It had 60 members, 35 being appointed by  organizations designated by the Minister of  Education, and the others directly by him. The  Minister was Chairman.  Libya
(19) The report contained much interesting  information on the general development of education  in the country, but that did not concern Unesco in the  executive sense. Special reference was made to the  Education Act of 1952, and to the conclusion in 1953  of a Cultural Agreement between Libya and Egypt.
(20) No i’ ‘“armation was given on the ratification of  international agreem:nts, on the implementation of  Unesco resolutions or on the National Commission.  Philippines
(21) The Philippines Lad prviously ratified the  Agreement on the Importation of Educational,  Scientific and Cultural Materials. They had now  adopted Act No. BT! on tax exemption. Some efforts  had been made with regard to the Agreement for  Facilitating the International Circulation of Visual  and Auditory Materials of an Educational, Scientific  and Cultural Character. The Philippines was not a  signatory to the Universal Copyright Convention  adopted in Geneva in 1952,
(22) Interesting but incomplete information was  given on the implementation of Unesco resolutions.
(23) The National Commission had been fully re-  established in 1951-1952 with a Government subsidy  of 100, 000 pesos and a staff of 11. It published the  Philippine Unesco News.
(24) The report, Miss Bishop concluded, gave a  general impression of renewed activity and interest,  but contained no complete information on the specific  planning and execution of programme activities.  Nothing was said about public relations.  Thailand
(25) No information was given on the ratification of  international agreements. As to the implementation  of Unesco resolutions, close co-operation existed  between Thailand and Unesco, which had been  cemented by the recent visit of the Director-General,  Sir Ronald Adam and other members of the Executive    Board. On that occasion a service contract had been  signed, establishing a research and training centre  in educational psychology.
(26) The report included much material on general  educational development, including adult education.
(27) The National Commission had taken an active  part in the promotion of the Unesco programme.
(28) The report, Miss Bishop concluded, gave the  impression of very fruitful co-operation between  Thailand and Unesco. Probably it would be best to  leave existing measures to mature before further  advances were planned on a large scale.  German Federal Republic
(29) Preparatory steps had been taken for that  country's accession to the Agreement on the Import-  ation of Educational, Scientific and Cultural Materials.  A law allowing accession to the Universal Copyright  Convention was to be submitted in due course.  Germany was prepared to accede to the Agreement  on the Establishment of the European Organization for  Nuclear Research. It had shared in the preparatory  work on the International Convention for the Protection  of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict.
(30) The report, Miss Bishop stated, gave the  impression of considerable activity, much of which  had developed only recently.
(31) The National Commission had held a conference  in January 1952 with the Director-General of Unesco.  It had set itself three initial tasks: the development  of public libraries, the production of an international  book of folk songs, and the improvement of school  textbooks. Co-operation with Unesco headquarters  had increased considerably and relations had been  established with it by several government departments.
(32) The National Commission pleaded for the  employment of more Germans in the Secretariat.
(33) Finally, the report contained full information on  the structure and activities of the National Commission,  India
(34) The Visual and Auditory Materials Convent: n  was under consideration. It had not been possible to  ratify the Importation Agreement. The Computation  Centre Agreement was under study and, with regard  to the Copyright Convention, India was considering  the introduction of a bill to amend the existing law.
(35) The accent in the report was on the implement-  ation of the Unesco programme, of which a detailed  account was given in the various fields.
(36) The National Commission had been put on a  permanent footing in 1952. It had three sub-  committees devoted to education, science and culture  ~espectively. The Executive Board consisted of 11  members.
(37) In general, Miss Bishop concluded, India gave  proof of great interest in Unesco. The need was felt,  however, for more than the aid of experts. An  Educational Development Fund was required, and the  Fundamental Education Programme was in need of  revision and enlargement. The sigmficance and  purpose of natural sciences should be more widely  popularized. Unesco, too, was in need of decentral-  ization, and should devote more of its attention to  creating a better appreciation of Eastern culture,  particularly of Eastern classics. It would seem that  the .hole relation of Unesco to India would  benefit from very careful study, in view of  the importance of India in Asia, and of the  - 914 -   COMMITTEE ON REPCRTS OF MEMBER BTATES  interest that country had taken in Unesco.  Netherlands
(38) The report mentioned signature of the Copyright  Convention and contained information on the  implementation of Unesco resolutions.
(39) The National Commission was clearly very  active. The Netherlands Unesco Centre, working  under its auspices, dealt with problems of mass  communication, It issued press releases, published  a monthly news bulletin and promoted the sale of  Unesco publications.
(40) The Netherlands acknowledged assistance from  Unesco after the flood disaster. Money raised by  the Gift Coupon Scheme had aided educational  reconstruction,
(41) The working party, Miss Bishop concluded,  stressed the importance of a statement made in the  report to the effect that it was found difficult to  present Unesco to the general public as a living  reality. The Netherlands felt that the Centre should  devote its attention to forming an improved  information service.  New Zealand
(42) New Zealand had decided not to sign the Visual  and Auditory Materials Agreement, but its ratifi-  cation of the Importation Convention was expected in  the near future; the Copyright Convention was being  considered,
(43) Interesting information was given on the  implementation of Unesco resolutions.
(44) The National Commission was mainly concerned  with stabilizing work done in the different fields.  Union of South Africa
(45) The attitude of this Member State to the Visual  and Auditory Materials Convention was not clearly  stated. It had been decided not to sign the  Computation Centre Agreement. The Union of  South Africa, being a member of the Berne Convention,    X-6  did not feel bound to sign the Copyright Convention.
(46) Unesco resolutions had been implemented in  various fields (education, natural science and  cultural activities).
(47) The South African National Commission was  still an interim body. It worked largely throwgh the  National Advisory Council for Adult Education and  its standing committees for arts, science, adult  education and physical education. There was little  public interest in the work and purposes of Unesco.  Indonesia
(48) Although the Importation Convention had not  been signed, facilities had been granted for the  importation of scientific equipment. The Copyright  Convention had not yet been adequa*ely considered  by the National Commission. The Government was  in favour of joining the Berne Convention.
(49) As to implementation of Unesco resolutions,  close cn-operation was kept up with Unesco through  the Unesco Affairs Section of the Ministry of  Education. The National Commission did not  however keep Unesco sufficiently informed of  operations, Several Unesco officials had visited the  country. Unesco's he! was found particularly  useful over technical assistance.
(50) The National Commission, formed in 1951,  now consisted of 33 members, under the  chairmanship of the Minister of Education.
(51) Some work had been done to promote under-  standing of the United Nations and of Human Rights.
(52) The CHAIRMAN thanked the delegate of the  United Kingdom for the report, which, although  nominally representing the joint work of the Iraq:  and United Kingdom delegations, had been  produced entirely by herself.  The meeting rose at 6.45 p.m,  SIXTH MEETING
22 November 1954 at 10 am.  Chairman : Mr. AL-HANI (Iraq)  ITEM 10,2 OF REVISED AGENDA : CONSIDERATION OF  REPORTS PRESENTED BY MEMBER STATES FOR 1952-33  (continued)
(1) Mr. HAZOUME (France) said that, having been  chosen to submit to the Committee observations on  the reports from Cambodia, Laos, Lebanon, Viet-  Nam and Poland, he had decided that the best method  was to take each section of the plan sent to Member  States 1n December 1953 (CL/867, Annex) and to  make a statement on the activities of the first four  States under each section. As the document sent by  Poland differed substantially from the others, it    would be presented separately. He was therefore  submitting his report in six sections as follows:  I. Introductory comments (Unesco membership  of each Ctate).  II. Information concerning the efforts made by each  Member State concerned, in the fields of education,  science and culture.  II. The international conventions accepted by those  States either officially or unofficially during the  period 1952-53, and the efforts they had made to  give effect to international recommendations.  IV. Action taken to implement the resolutions of the  Unesco programme, with its sub-sections on education,  - 915 -