ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON  non-governmental organizations, it would be in-  consistent to treat them as regional units. He  proposed, moreover, that the suggestions of the  United States delegate be put into practice  immediately, and that, in order to help in reducing  PROGRAMME AND BUDGET Vi-25  the volume of Unesco documents, the Committee's  supplementary report be dropped,  The meeting rose at 12,20 a. m,  TWENTY - FIFTH MEETING
17 Novembe r 1954 at 10.30 a.m.  Chairman : Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Australia)  DRAFT REPORT OF THE ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PRO-  GRAMME AND BUDGET (PART ID)  REMODELLING OF THE FUTURE PROGRAMME OF UNESCO  (unoumbered document)
(1) Mr, JUNANKAR (India) asked that mention  should be made in the document of the following  three points, all of which had received support  during the Committee's discussions: targets for  the concentration of the programme in different  fields; the need for decentralization of the pro-  gramme and activities to meet the needs of  different regions; the provision of funds for action  programmes in Member States.
(2) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) proposed deletion  of the last sentence of paragraph 9 on the grounds  that the Committee's decision and the explanations  given by the Chairman of the Executive Board  rendered it superfluous,
(3) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) drew attention  to a contradiction between paragraphs 7 and 9,  In the first, the Committee was opposed to  apportioning funds between the two parts of the  programme, and in the second it advised that a  decision should be taken on the balance to be  established in the programme, He assumed that  the word balance referred to the division of funds.
(4) Mr. LEE (United States of America) agreed  with the United Kingdom delegate: paragraph 7  explained the difficulties in reaching a decision on  the balance between continued and special activities,  while paragraph 9 said that a decision should be  taken, While appreciating that there were  difficulties in apportioning the programme between  the two types of activity, it was his recollection  that the Committee had approved the directive in  the report on remodelling of the future programme  of Unesco (document 8C/PRG/13) to the effect that  the major portion should apply to special activities.
(5) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) pointed out that, in  the report under discussion, it was recommended  that a larger proportion of the ordinary budget be in  future reserved for the special activities requested  by Member States.
(6) The CHAIRMAN, referring to the Belgian  delegate's remark, said that the sentence in  paragraph 68 referring to the greater part of the  budget did not concern only Member States. In  reply to a further question from the delegate of  Belgium, he confirmed that paragra,.. C2 referred  to Member States.
(7) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Lirector-General) pointed  out that the second sentence of paragraph 68 con-  tained an idea similar to that in paragraph 62,  mentioned by Mr. Florkin, However, paragraph
68 referred to special activities as a whole and was  therefore wider in scope.
(8) Mr, FLORKIN (Belgium) entirely agreed with  the Assistant Director-General's interpretation,  but recalled that, according to the information  previously supplied by the Chairman of the Executive  Board, the proportion of the budget reserved for  special activities was already greater than that  allowed for general activites.
(9) Mr. LEE (United States of America) said that,  although in the document paragraphs 62 and 68 both  came under the heading "Activities undertaken at  the request of Member States", paragraph 68  referred to the whole programme.
(10) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) agreed with the  United States delegate, but wished to emphasize  that the hope expressed in paragraph 68 had  already been fulfilled. In any case the paragraph  in question could only mean that the percentage of  the budget allotted to special activities should be  further increased,
(11) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  realized that a problem of interpretation might  arise, and that there might be uncertainty whether  a larger proportion was to be devoted to special  activities than to other activities, or a larger    - 805 -   v1-25 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  proportion than was at present allocated to them.
(12) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) thought that the  wording meant the major portion of the budget and  not a larger part of the budget.
(13) Mr, JUNANKAR (India) said that the gist of the  discussion was that, if any additional funds should  become available, they should be applied first to  the part of the programme concerning projects  in Member States, The Committee had also dis-  cussed the Director -General's suggestion that  part of future budgets should be earmarked for  those activities.
(14) The CHAIRMAN recalled that the Committee  had approved the suggestion, after hearing state-  ments by the Director-General and the represent-  ative of the Executive Board to the effect that at  the present time the greater part of the budget was  devoted to special activities. The object of the  paragraph in question was to apply that practice to  future years and to stress the desirability of more  funds being provided for such activities, It was  also agreed that there would be no diminution of  funds for normal activities.
(15) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt), referring to  the Chairman's last point, said that it had been  agreed as a policy directive that, whenever it was  possible, through concentration of the programme,  more funds should be applied to special activities,  provided it were not at the expense of normal  activities,
(13) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) said that  the discussions had been useful and would be of  value to the Programme and Budget Commission,  He proposed that a reference should be made in  the report to the difficulty of interpreting the two  paragraphs, with possible quotations from them,  and the Committee's comments, The Chairman of  the Executive Board might assist in the wording.
(17) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive  Board) was anxious for the Board not to intervene  in the drafting of the report, He would, however,  deal with the matter fully when presenting the  Executive Board's report to the Programme and  Budget Commission. He agreed that the wordinz  might be considered ambiguous,
(18) Mr. LEE (United States of America) proposed  a statement on the following lines: "It is the opinion  of the Advisory Committee that the general or  continuing activities in 1956-57 should not be raised  above the level envisaged in our review of the pro-  gramme and planning for 1957-58, A majo: nart  of the Organization's resources and funds shou.u be  devoted to speciai activities and greater emphasis  in this area should be given to the needs of Maraber  States".
(19) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) drew attention  to the reference in paragraph 7 to the interdependence  between the permanent services and the services  supplyirg direct aid to Member States, and also to    the request for a decision on balance contained in  paragraph 9. Recalling the comments at the  beginning of the meeting on a contradiction between  the two paragraphs, if paragraph 7 were considered  as referring to the organic interdependence between  parts of the whole programme, and paragraph 9  as referring to the balance from an executive or  administrative point of view, the second paragraph  would follow logically from the first and there would  be no contradiction,
(20) Mr, SEDES (France) considered it impossible  to speak of a budgetary balance between one part of  the programme and another if the programme had  no unity. The Egyptian delegate was perfectly right  in that respect.
(21) There was also the question of what would  happen if the expansion of special activities entailed  an increase in general activities, Such a possibility  could not be excluded automatically.
(22) With regard to the comments by the United  Kingdom delegate Mr, Sedes thought that the word  "balance" could equally well apply to the apportion-  ment of activities or of funds. It was essential to  preserve some unity throughout the programme  and to draw up a balanced budget for such a con-  solidated programme,
(23) The CHAIRMAN agreed with the interpretation  given by the delegate of Egypt and supported by the  delegate of France.
(24) He considered the United States delegate's  proposal out of order as it went beyond the Com-  mittee's decisions, He assumed that it was intended  *, refer to 1955-56 and not 1956-57.
(25) Mr. LEE (United States of America) accepted  the Chairman's view, but pointed out that he had  made his proposal in the interests of clarifying the  draft report. The Committee had reached a clear  decision to endorse the report on remodelling,
(26) The CHAIRMAN asked the United Kingdom  delegate to restate his proposal in the light of that  of the Unitcd States delegate,
(27) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) tnanked the  delegate of Egypt for his clarification. In the  interests of removing ambiguities before presenting  the report to the Programme and Budget Commis-  sion, he proposed that paragraphs 7 and 9 should be  redrafted tc express the distinction made by the  delegate of Egypt, and that there should be a  reference to, or a quotation from, the paragraphs  in the Executive Board's report giving the reasons  for rejecting the artificial distinction between the  two categories of activity,
(28) With regard to the proposal of the United  States delegate, while ne too did not wish to see  activities raised above the 1955-56 level, it was  possible that it touched on the prohibited question  of the budget ceiling, He did not see how it could  be related to his own proposal,
(29) The CHAIRMAN explained that the United King-  dom delegate's proposal was an endeavour to clarify  the apparent contradiction between paragraphs 7and 9.  - 806 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VI-25
(30) Mr, CABOUAT (France) saw nothing contra-  dictory between the two paragraphs, He even  thought that the two main ideas which they con-  tained could be combined in a single sentence:  "The Committee therefore considers that the  General Conference should decide upon the balance  which it wishes to see maintained in the programme,  it being understood that the apportionment of funds  between the two parts of the programme should not  be based on an artificial distinction between the two  types of Member States”. The idea was to prevent  the programme from being given a dangerous  political slant and to emphasize its fundamental  unity, He did not believe that there was any am-  biguity in the wording which he had proposed.
(31) The CHAIRMAN said that the delegate of the  United Kingdom was aware that there was no real  contradiction between the two paragraphs, He  proposed that a new draft should be prepared by the  delegates of the United Kingdom and Egypt and the  Rapporteur and submitted to the next meeting,
(32) It was so agreed.
(33) In reply to a question from the CHAIR MAN,  Mr, LEE (United States of America) said that he  would prefer to see the new draft before re-  formulating his earlier proposal, his remarks  had not concerned the relatioaship between con-  tinued and special activities, but the fact that  certain directives to the Director-General agreed  on by the Committee had not been included in  the report,
(34) Turning to paragraph 6, he said that, in  guiding the Director-General, attention had to be  given to the time schedule as well as to criteria  and methods in securing concentration of activities.  He proposed that the word "timing" be inserted  after "methods" in the first line of paragraph 6.
(35) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) objected to the addition,  It was difficult to stipulate dates in a process that  was continuous,
(36) Mr, LEE (United States of America) said that  he would not insist on the word "timing" as long as  guidance were given to the Director-General on the  timing for achieving certain goals.
(37) Mr, ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) supported the  proposal,
(38) Mr, SEDES (France) enquired the exact  meaning of the proposal of the delegate of the  United States of America.
(39) The CHAIRMAN understood that the proposal  was to add the idea of timing to those of criteria  and procedures which were already included in the  paragraph,
(40) If it were a question of introducing the idea of  concentration by stages into paragraph 6, Mr.SEDES  (France) had no objection to the proposal.
(41) The CHAIRMAN put the proposal of the United    States delegate to the vote and it was adopted by 12  votes to 1.
(42) Mr, CABOUAT (France) pointed out that the  word "balance", which appeared several times in  the draft report, was not very apt as it generally  implied some idea of equality, whereas, in the  present case, it was more a question of proportion,  Also, any change in the "balance" might be con-  sidered as a step towards an "unbalanced" pro-  gramme, a somewhat detrimental idea. He there-  fore wondered whether the French text should not  be revised with a view to improving the wording.
(43) That suggestion was unanimously approved,
(44) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt), after -eceiving  an assurance from the Chairman that funds for  general activities would not be blocked under para-  graph 9, restated his proposal to delete the last  sentence of the paragraph,
(45) The proposal was adopted by 6 votes to 1 with
2 abstentions.
(46) Mr, SEDES (France) expressed surprise at the  decision to delete the sentence concerned since the  whole Committee was agreed on its substance, He  would have expected members to vote for, rather  than against, its retention.
(47) The CHAIRMAN thought that, if the Committee  agreed with the French delegate, it would be  impossible to keep the words "certain delegations"  at the beginning of the sentence,
(48) Mr. SEDES (France) considered that the last  sentence of paragraph J should be retained. The  words "certain delegations" accorded with the  facts; but he attached most importance to the  words "have clearly indicated", which eraphasized  a certain aspect of the Committee's work,
(48) Mr. PANNETON (Canada) wished to delete the  sentence precisely because of the words "Certain  delegations have clearly indicated". In point of  fact nobody knew whether that was a minority or  majority opinion,
(50) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) said that  he had not voted on the proposal because he had  not understood the reasons for it, It was clear from  paragraph 7 that neither part of the programme was  stabilized,
(51) “Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Zgypt) said that he had  made his proposal because it was not correct to  include individual points of view in a report,
(52) Speaking as Rapporteur, Mr, CABOUAT  (France) reminded the Committee that in the first  part of its report it had several times mentioned  opinions expressed by one or more delegations.  Those were minority opinions which had not been  the subject of a vote, had raised no opposition  and had seemed worth mentioning because of  their particular interest,  - 807 -   VI-25
(53) The CHAIR MAN took a vote on the proposal  by the delegate of Egypt, seconded by the delegate  of Canada, that the last sentence of paragraph 9 be  deleted, The proposal was adopted by 11 votes to 2,
(54) Mr, PANNETON (Canada) wished to know  whether the words "these funds will have to be  raised by appealing to Member States", which  appeared in the third sentence of paragraph 11,  should be interpreted as a hope that Unesco's  budget would be increased.
(55) The CHAIRMAN did not consider that the  sentence under discussion implied an increase in  the Organization's budget, but rather that expendi-  ture of the Organization's funds should be co-  ordinated with Members' activities,
(56) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) said that the idea  underlying the Executive Board's report was that  more funds would be needed; where they would  come from was a separate question,
(57) Mr. LEE (United States of America) said  that the Executive Board's report indicated that  additional funds were desirable, but that some  remodelling could be effected without them; the  Committee felt that approval of à higher budget  was necessary for a remodelled programme, The  Committee must either approve the Executive  Board's report or state that "such activities will  doubtless be enhanced if considerably greater  funds are available",
(58) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) supported  the views of the United States delegate but con-  sidered that his suggestion went beyond what was  required of the Committee, The programme under  consideration was that for 1955-56 and it was not  necessary to comment on future funds. If, however,  the Committee wished to do so, it must be made  clear that the paragraph calling on Member States  to provide more funds was not being endorsed,  He proposed the revision of the paragraph to  remove any forecast of future needs,
(59) Mr. LEE (United States of America) was  willing to accept the proposal provided his own ‘  amendment were included.
(60) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) said that the Com-  mittee had previously agreed that such activities  would need more funds, but not from what source  those funds might be forthcoming.
(61) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) said that  there were two levels of funds; those for tha  fixed budget and those for additional activities.  He proposed the following addition to the paragraph  after the first sentence: "Such activities will  doubtless require funds considerably greater than  those that can be provided within the budget of the  Organization",
(62) The proposal was seconded by Mr, FLORKIN  (Belgium).    - 808 -  ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET
(63) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) objected to any implied  fixing of future budgets: the budget for any period  was fixed by the Conference immediately preceding  it.
(64) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) reiterated his  opinion that the Committee was exceeding its terms  of reference.
(65) Mr, SEDES (France) pointed out that Member  States had given such financial support to some of  Unesco's undertakings, for instance, the Institutes  in the German Federal Republic. He proposed that  the sentence be amended to read: "these funds  will have to be raised by appealing to Member States,  as in the case of previous undertakings". It was  important to make it clear that Unesco already had  some experience in the matter.
(66) Mr, ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) said that his  amendment provided clarification. It would not be  binding on future budgets, since funds from other  sources did not relate to future budgets,
(67) The CHAIRMAN asked for comment on the  proposal of the United Kingdom delegate.
(68) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) objected to the proposal  on the grounds that the Committee had already  agreed that additional funds would be needed,
(69) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) proposed that the two  sentences should be retained.
(70) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) agreed with  the delegate of India, but nevertheless considered  that it was often necessary to refresh the memory  of the Conference.
(71) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that no vote had  ever been taken on the subject; it was only a  question of reporting th- Committee's opinion.
(72) Mr. LEE (United States of America) said that  no decision had been reached on the need for  additional funds. He did not wish to tie remodelling  of the programme to a budget level,
(73) Mr. CABOUAT (France) pointed out that it  was mainly a question of defining the large projects  mentioned in the Executive Board's report, The  Committee had not anticipated that such projects  would be carried out entirely at the Organization's  expense, If Unesco were to be required to initiate  large, planned projects, the Conference's attention  should be drawn to the consequences of such a  policy.
(74) Mr. SEDES (France) thought that, if the end of  paragraph 11 were deleted, the first sentence would  have little weight. The Director-General would be  greatly hampered in drawing up the future pro-  gramme unless the Conference agreed on the  principle of seeking additional funds, Such a policy  fully deserved the Committee's approval; it was  right that Member States should be able to make  special contributions to Unesco's activities and   ADVISORY COMMITTEE  that policy in no way involved the idea of a budget  level,
(75) The CHAIRMAN took a vote on the proposal  of the delegate of the United Kingdom, seconded  by the delegate of the United States of America;  it was rejected by 8 votes to 5, with 1 abstention,
(76) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) referred to  paragraphs 57 and 70 of the Executive Boar.''s  report, which implied that larger funds must come  from Unesco's budget and proposed that a reference  should be made to them in the report,
(77) It was agreed to insert the following words  at the beginning of the sentence proposed by the  Egyptian delegate: "As indicated by the Executive  Board",
(78) The proposal of the delegate of Egypt,  seconded by the delegate of Belgium, was adopted  by 10 votes to nil with no abstentions.  DR/2 - Draft resolution submitted by the delegation  of the USSR
8C/DIV/78 - Note by the Secretariat on budget  estimates and related information for use of  Russian as a working language of Unesco, as  proposed by the USSR
(79) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  re alled that the Committee had asked the Secre-  tariat to get in touch with the USSE delegation, in  order to obtain some additional information about  its proposal, The USSR delegation had stated that  the main point of its draft resolution was contained  in paragraph 2 of document 8C/DR/2. It hoped that  Russian would be adopted by Unesco as a working  language on the same footing as English and French,  and asked that the reference to Spanish in the first  paragraph be ignored. The USSR delegation did not  intend to request that Russian be used for every  class of document listed in Note 8C/DIV/78. The  delegation's main concern for the time being was to  have Russian accepted as a working language of  the General Conference and the Executive Board,  All the possible financial implications of the draft  resolution were set out in document 8C/DIV/78.  Members of the Committee would also find therein  information about the practice followed with regard  to Russian in the United Nations and the Specialized  Agencies,
(80) The CHAIRMAN reminded the Committee that  the Executive Board's recommendation on  document 8C/ADM/7 on the adoption of Spanish  as a working language had not been approved by  the Committee owing to its budgetary implications,
(81) Mr, SILLER (Mexico) said that, as the  proposal not to accept Spanish as a working  language of the Executive Board had been adopted  at a meeting which he had been unable to attend,  he wished to reserve his vote on that point in  order to return to it when it was dealt with by the  appropriate organ of the Conference,    oN PROJRAMME AND BUDGET VI-25
(82) The CHAIRMAN and Mr. MAHEU (Assistant  Director-General) explained that the adoption of  Spanish as a working language would come up for  discussion when the Executive Board's repo: | was  presented to the Administrative Commission that  afternoon,
(83) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) asked whether,  in view of the Soviet delegation's communication to  the Assistant Director-General, discussion could  be limited to the use of Russian for the Conference  and the Executive Board, He proposed that a  separate vote be taken in each case and opposed its  use at the Executive Board for the time being, for  reasons of economy.
(84) Replying to a question from Mr. ABDEL-  RAHMAN (Egypt), Mr. DELAVENAY (Chief,  Documents and Publications Service) explained  that the expression "official language" (document
8C/DIV/78) had not the same meaning in all the  United Nations Agencies, A list of the official  languages of Unesco was given in Rule 54 of the  Rules of Procedure of the General Conference.  Rule 56 explained how those official languages  were to be used, With regard to working languages,  a distinction should be drawn between those used  for all Unesco documents and those used by the  General Conference. Since the Florence session  of the General Conference, Spanish had been added  to the working languages of the Conference, which  had previously consisted of English and French only.
(85) Mr, LEE (United States of America) asked if  the Secretariat could make a more detailed state-  ment on the implications under Item 1 of document
8C/DIV/78, It would be useful to know to what  extent Russian would be used, for example, in  simultaneous interpretation, and in verbatim and  summary records, as a guide to voting,
(86) Mr. LEGUEN (Bureau of Conference Planning  and General Services) replied that the funds  provided for interpretation covered simultaneous  interpretation for all meetings where that system  was used, and consecutive interpretation for working  parties, Verbatim records were made only of  plenary meetings, Speeches in Russian would be  recorded and then transcribed, so that the verbatim  records would be in four languages.
(87) With regard to summary records, the figures  allowed for three meetings every morning and  afternoon. Henceforth, those records would be  drawn up in four languages,
(88) Preparatory documents were all those sent to  delegations before the Conference opened, while  publications included the Report of the Director-  General, the Draft Programme and Budget, Reports  of Member States, the Conference Handbook and  Journal, and its resolutions and proceedings.  Information on that subject would be found in  paragraph 10 of the chapter on the General Con-  ference in the Draft Programme and Budget for
(89) Mr. PANNETON (Canada) asked whether it  would be possible to consider items separately  - 809 -   VI-25  or whether a vote would have to be taken on the  subject as a whole,
(90) The CHAIRMAN confirmed that proposals  could be made on individual categories in  document 8C/DIV/78,
(91) Mr, SILLER (Mexico) asked which resolution  authorized the use of Russian at plenary meetings.
(92) Mr. LEGUEN (Bureau of Conference  Planning and General Services) explained that the  use of Russian as an auxiliary language had been  approve] by the General Conference in plenary  meeting on the recommendation of the General  Committee. That was a temporary measure.
(93) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that an amount of  $40, 596 appearing in note (1) of 8C/DIV/78 would  now have to be added to the total of $100, 754 for the  Conference, since it had been recommended to  hold the next Conference in India.
(94) Mr, LEE (United States of America) said that  the implications of item 1 of the document were  not reflected in the wording of the resolution,
(95) In reply to a question from Mr, COWELL  (United Kingdom), Mr, MAHEU (Assistant  Director-General) stated that the expenditure  entailed by the use of Russian at the Conference  had been estimated as exactly equal to that  entailed by the use of Spanish,
(96) Mr. SEDES (France) asked for infor mation  on the steps actually taken with regard to Russian.
(97) Mr, LEGUEN (Bureau of Conference Plan-  ning and General Services) replied that partial  measures only had been taken, providing for  interpretation during the debates and for the re-  cording and transcribing of Russian speeches in  the verbatim records.
(988) Mr, SILLER (Mexico) did not remember any  clause limiting the working languages of Un-sco!s  Secretariat to French and English, He hoped that  the Director-General would enlighten him if such’  limitations existed in the Constitution,
(89) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  explained that the Constitution was drawn up in  French and English, both languages being equally  authoritative, Section X of the Rules of Procedure  of the General Conference contained the Rules  governing the use of languages, Rule 52 stipulated  that: "English, French and Spanish are the working  languages of the General Conference",
(100) The CHAIRMAN said that that would exclude  use of the Russian language anywhere else than in  the General Conference,
(101) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) said that he  had proposed that discussion be limited to its use  at the Conference,    - 810 -  ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET
(102) Mr, SILLER (Mexico) pointed out that some  of Unesco's work was done in a language which  might to a certain extent be a working language,  like Spanish. Thus it frequently happened tnat  Unesco replied in Spanish to letters addressed to  it in that language. Therefore, if the General  Conference adopted Russian as a working language,  certain activities or work would inevitably be  carried out in that new language, His proposal would  be that Russian be adopted as a working language of  the General Conference, but, as the Norwegian  delegate had said, its use as a working language  would be limited to sessions of the General Confer-  ence and so, like Spanish, it would not affect the  ordinary work of the Secretariat toany great extent,
(103) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) seconded the  Mexican delegate's proposal.
(104) Mr, SEDES (France) thought that, after the  decisions taken in plenary session, it would be  difficult for the Committee to oppose the adoption  of Russian as a working language of the General  Conference, From the financial angle, however,  it might perhaps be better to limit the number of  documents for translation into Russian,
(105) In reply to a question from the Chairman,  he explained that his suggestion was not an amend-  ment to the Mexican delegate*s proposal. In his  opinion, Russian should be placed on the same  footing as Spanish, but it was wise to bear in mind  the sum available for the next Conference and to  make recommendations in keeping with it,
(106) It was agreed that a separate vote should be  taken on each item of expenditure,  Interpretation
(107) The budget estimates for interpretation  were approved by 11 votes to 1, with 1 abstention,
(108) Mr. LEE (United States of America) assumed  that the foregoing vote had been for the purpose  of clarifying views on the individual items, but  that a substantive vote would be taken on the  question of principle,  Verbatim Records
(108) Mr, DELAVENAY (Chief, Documents and  Publications Service) explained that the verbatim  records were obtained by transcribing recordings  made during plenary meetings, They therefore  reproduced the original speeches in each language,  and if Russian were adopted as a working language  from the point of view of interpretation, it would  be difficult to imagine the absence of speeches  in Russian in the verbatim records,
(110) The estimates for verbatim records were  approved by 11 votes to 1, with 1 abstention,  Summary Records and Reports
(111) The relevant estimates were approved by
11 votes to 1, with 1 abstention,   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  Preparatory Documents
(112) The estimates were approved by 11 votes to
1, with 1 abstention,  Publications
(113) The estimates were approved by 10 votes to
2, with 1 abstention.
(114) Finally, the Committee agreed, by 11 votes  to 1, with 1 abstention, to recommend the adoption  of Russian as a working language of the General  Conference, having due regard to the budget  estimates contained in document 8C/DIV/78, to-  gether with the additional estimates for organizing  the next session of the Conference in New Delhi.
(115) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) proposed that  for the time being the Committee should not re-  commend the use of Russian for the Executive  Board,
(116) The proposal was seconded by the delegate  of France and adopted by 10 votes to 1 with 2  abstentions,
(117) The CHAIRMAN asked whether the preceding  vote implied that the Committee should proceed no  further.    Vvi-26
(118) Mr, ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) suggested that  one reason for the vote was that the Soviet Union  was not at present represented on the Executive  Board,
(118) Mr, MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  pointed out that present decisions regarding  Russian were being taken on the basis of the  existing situation and of information <o far  available and that, if new facts should be brought  to their notice, delegates would naturally be free  to take those facts into account,
(120) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) pointed out that the  Committee should not exclude the possibility that  in future Unesco might publish some periodicals  in Russian, for one of the services which Unesco  should render to a country which had joined it  was to issue some publications in the language  of that country.
(121) The CHAIRMAN said that the appropriate  place for the Soviet delegation to raise the question  of publications and periodicals would be in the  Programme and Budget Commission,  The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m.  TWENTY - SIXTH MEETING
17 November 1954 at 4 p.m.  Chairman : Mr, SOMMERFELT (Norway)  DEAFT REPORT OF THE ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PRO-  GRAMME AND BUDGET (PART I)  REMODELLING OF THE FUTURE PROGRAMME OF UNESCO  (continued)
(1) Mr, CABOUAT (Rapporteur) read out para-  graphs 6, 7 and 9 of Part II of the draft report of  the Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget,  dealing with the remodelling of the future pru-  gramme of Unesco, as amended by the Drafting  Committee,
(2) Paragraphs 6, 7 and 9 were adopted without  discussion,
(3) The Rapporteur added that paragraph 12 in  the draft report would be followed immediately  by paragraph 15, and that the transferred para-  graphs 13 and 14 would be replaced by the text  of the motion submitted on 15 November by the  delegate of the United States of America, omitting    - 811 -  the first sentence of that motion, which was already  included in the draft report (cf, document 8C/BUD/  SR. 23).
(4) The proposed drafting was adopted without  discussion.
(5) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) thought the word "precise"  in the last sentence of paragraph 10 laid too heavy  a burden on the General Conference and proposed,  in the interests of greater flexibility, that it be  deleted,
(6) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) pointed to an  anomaly in the words: "For several years" at the  beginning of the paragraph and the words: "It is  now b*Loming necessary...” in the last sentence  of the paragraph,
(7) Mr. LEE (United States of America) proposed,  in order to meet those objections, that the beginning  of the last sentence of the paragraph be altered to