ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VI-7  SEVENTH MEETING  . 4 November 1954 at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman - Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Australia)  FUNDAMENTAL EDUCATION {document 8C/D1V/30) AND  PROPOSED PROGRAMME AND BUDGET FOR 1955-58 (8C/5)  (continued)  IV. PRODUCTION OF READING FATERIAL FOR NEW  LITERATES
(1) The CHAIRMAN invited discussion on Education:  paragraphs 310-312,
(2) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  said that the paragraphs under discussion related to  studies 1n methods of teaching adults to read and  write. Such efforts would be of little use unless  followed by the provision of reading material, which  for many Member States was difficult. It was there-  fore proposed to give financial assistance, at their  request, to national and regional institutions conduct-  ing experiments as a result of the Unesco study in
1953 and 1954.
(3) No comments were made and projects 310-312  were thus approved.  Cultural Activities, paragraphs 186-201
(4) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural  Activities) drew attention to the grave problem met  with by many Member States in making reading  matter available to new literates, since vernacular  literature was all too often lacking. Unesco had  therefore concluded contracts on a very modest  scale with certain Indian institutions with a view to  the production of booklets dealin; with nationai and  social life. It was intended to help or encourage  Member States to produce simple, attractive and  inexpensive publications so as te keep alive the  desire for reading and prevent tose who had bene-  fited by literacy campaigns frora falling back into  their former ignorance. Various working methods  had been proposed, and, if thetie were to be effect-  ively carried out, close co-operation between the  different departments of Unesc > was essential,  During 1955 on-the-spot studies would be undertaken  in various countries with the ¢)llaboration of  National Commissions and loc:.l authorities. Para-  graphs 191 to 200 listed mode: of action, both direct  and indirect, designed to solve this vast problem,  which was destined, alongside that of fundamental  education, to become one of Unesco's main tasks.
(5) Replying to a question by he delegate of the  German Federal Republic, M. Thomas said that  the plan was to begin with three or four countries  specially int rested in the problem. The National  - 679 -     Comrnissions and the education authorities would  give guidance to Unesco missions, whose job it  would be to make an inventory of existing resources.  There were two problerns - that of selection and  that of printing. There were likely to b> consider-  able opportunities of obtaining assistance in choosing  contemporaneous works that lent themselves to  adaptation, In addition, certain publishe.'s had  expressed readiness to collaborate with Unesco in  the printing and distribution of attractive and  inexpensive works.
(6) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) asked what  methods were used in the important and difficult  task of judging the material provided.
(7) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural  Activities) said that the National Commissions of  the countries concerned were the bodies best  qualified to advise Unesco through systematic  consultation. Methods of action should be worked  out on the spot, in close liaison with these Com-  missions and the national authorities, by selecting  a few countries to which the problem was of im-  mediate concern. On the basis of the data thus  assembled, Unesco would be able to put forward a  working plan for one or two years. Works belonging  to world literature could be selected, translated  and published in cheap editions. Well-known  authors could also be asked to write booklets on  various subjects specially intended for this class  of reader, In addition to such direct action, the  programme also envisaged the offer of prizes to  encourage production of this kind. Finally, there  was provision for Unesco aid to enable governments  and Natiorn]l Commissions to launch a system of  distribution and production. Each country had its  own problems and no hard-and-fast method could  be laid down.
(8) Paragraphs 186-201 were adopted.  Mass Communication, paragraphs 181 and 182 and  Social 3ciences, paragraph 128
(9) No comment,  V. General Aid to Fundamental Education Projects
1. Servicing associated projects (Education, para-  graphs 282-289)
(10) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa-  tion) said that the system of associated projects was   VI-7 ADVISORY COMMITIFF ON  expanding, there were at present fifty in seventeen  different countries. It was now proposed to link  associated projects With an expert mission on funda-  mental education and to appoint two experts who  would spend the greater part of two years visiting  the regions concerned and giving constant advice and  supervision in the development of the various pro-  jects. Paragraph 284 contained a new and sigrific.nt  proposal, It was felt that regional centres 1n funda-  mental education would not be justificd unless tneir  graduating students were subsequently given suitable  work in their own countries, and it was therefore  proposed to encourage co-operation by sending to a  country which guaranteed to employ students gradu-  ating from the Sirs-el-Layyan Fundamental Education  Centre, an expert entrusted with the setting up of a  fundamental education centre.
(1!) A propos an earlier question by the Umted  Kingdom delegate 1n connexion with paragraph 285,  Unesco did not in any way intend to direct associated  projects; its function wus rather to advise and act  as a catalyst, Unesco was, however 1aterested in  the status of women and in seeing remedied the  inequalities which existed in the field of education.
(12) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) thanked the  Director of the Education Department for his re-  assurance; the speaker had perhaps misunderstood  the term urged. He had been concerned because  there were fourteen associated projects in territories  connected with the United Kingdom.
2. Fundamental education within the fraraework of  the educational programme for Palestine refugees  (Education, paragraphs 232-235)
(13) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  drew attention to the fact that the students at the  Sirs-el-Layyan Centre would include a team of five  from the project on education of Palestinian refugees.
(14) There was no comment,
3, Emergency Educational Assistance to Korea  (Education, paragraphs 241 and 242)
(15) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  Said that, féllowing à recommendation made by  UNKRA, 1t was proposed to send a fundamental edu-  cation expert to start a centre in Korea, ;
(16) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) asked whether  the provision for staff travel was really necessery.
(17) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  explained that it was difficult to keep in touch with  work in Korea. Some contact had been made by  staff members who had managed to visit Korea from  Tokyo, but it would be wise to make provision for  staff travel.
4. Gift Coupon Programme (Mass Communicatior,  paragraphs 211-221)
(18) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General),  pointing out the reference made to the Unesco Gift  Programme, suggested that the discussion on  coupons should be opened when they came  - 680 -     PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  to examine the chapter on Mass Communication
(19) The CHAIRMAN approved this suggestion.  V1,1,Evaluation of Literacy Campaigns (Education,  paragraphs 271 and 272)
(20) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education}  suid that these paragraphs reflected the general  feeling that Unesco should review its efforts and  help Member States to assess the methods used,  The criterion of success 1n the literacy campaign  was not how many people were still attending  clusses after three months but how many were  reading worth-while literature after one year. It  was proposed that an evaluation should be carried  out by two experts: one an expert in teaching adulis  how to read and write, and the other an educational-
1st with a sociological backgreund, who would work  IN a selected region. At Headquarters close collabo-  ration would be maintained between the Departments  of Social Sciences and Education.  VI, 2, Evaluation of the results of fundamenta  education projects (Social Sciences, paragraphs
(21) Mrs. MYRDAIL (Director, Department of  Social Sciences) said that an initial survey was  being « onducted tn 1954 by the Department of Cultu-  ral Activities in collaboration with the Department  of Social Sciences, on the value of a public library  set up in Delhi, It was hoped that the evaluation  would be carried out in 1955 by local research  teams in India, with foreign assistance, if “equested.
(22) The second project, outlined in paragraph 235,  represented a combined attempt by the Departments  of Education and Social Sciences to evaluate funda-  mental education. A survey was being made to  ascertain the best techniques, after which the major  responsibility would fall on the operating department.  For that reason the cost came in the budget for the  Department of Education.
(23) The CHAIRMAN said that the consideration of  fundamental education was now completed. The  discussion had been very valuable and a clear 1dea  had emerged of how the different projects were knit  together. He thanked the Directors of the Depart-  ments concerned for their statements,
(24) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) supported the  remarks of the Chairman and proposed that they  should be included in the Rapporteur's report.  CilAPTER 4. CULTURAL ACTIVITIES (continued)  Project 4.34: Development of libraries  Paragraphs 202-215
(25) No comment.  Paragraphs 216-218
(26) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGE] VI-7  Activities) gave a few details about the experiment  currently proceeding, in association with the Colom-  bian authorities, in organizing a public library in  the industrial town of Medellin. The Director-  General had just returned from taking part in the  inauguration of the scheme. The library was not  specially designed for fundamental education but the  Colombian authorities were about to undertake a  fundamental education drive in Medellin, and it was  Unesco's intention to use the library as additional  leverage. The drive was being conducted on the  same lines as that in New Delhi, where the contracts  had expired.  P.-agraphs 224-229
(27) Turning to project D Mr. Thomas stated that  one of Unesco's aims was the inter-library ex-  change of publications. In many countries exchange  centres were already functioning and relaying Unesco  activities, and it was felt that the Latin American  countries should be invited to a conference in order  to consider an extension of exchanges between  themselves and the rest of the world.
(28) Mr. LEE (U.itcd States of America) pointed  out that there was no mention of the Organization of  American States, which was interested in the sub-  ject. He assumed that that Organization would not  be associated with the project.  {29) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural  Activities) said that, although the Orgamzation of  American States was not expressly mentioned, the  Secretariat proposed to inform it of the project and  obtain from it the same support received at the Sao  Paulo Conference, in which the Orgamzation of  American States had taken an active part.  Project E (paragraphs 230-243)
(30) Mr. Thomas said that this project was a con-  tinuation of what had already been done for several  years under the heading of Associated Projects,  The list of publications in preparation or now appear-  Ing was given in paragraphs 233-243; all of them  were designed to assist in the development of popular  libraries 1n Latin America and South East Asia.  Paragraphs 264-267
(31) Mr. Thomas observed that paragraphs 252-267  indicated various fields in which it was proposed to  give direct aid to Member States. Project H related  to requests from the countries of southern Asia and  dealt with the creation or development of national  or university libraries,
(32) The CHAIRMAN, speaking as delegate of  Australia, said that his Government considered the  project of the greatest importance and had arranged  for the Deputy National Librarian to accompany the  Asian tour and to assist in co-ordinating results  in Paris.
(33) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural  Activities) added that this mission was functioning at  - 681 -     the moment. Mr. E.J. Carter, Head of the  Libraries Division, was on his way to South Asia,  accompanied by the Australian librarian to whom  the Chairman had referred. He wished to express  the Secretariat's appreciation of the Chairman's  co-operation which would help to strengthen  Unesco's action in the field of libraries,  Paragraphs 268-277
(34) Mr. Thomas said that project | was another  example of direct aid to Member States by setting  up a small microfilm library, under the direction  of a qualified expert, which would visit regions  where, judging by requests received, the need  appeared to exist. The unit was to begin work in
1955 and might be installed in Latin America in
1956, where it could be attached to the Havana  office,
(35) The microfilming of all documents preserved  in libraries, archives and so forth seemed to be an  urgent necessity, and Unesco would like to make  available to interested Member States an apparatus  and an operator, thus enabling the most pressing  needs to be met, This was a new form of direct  assistance but one which was often asked for.
(36) In reply to a question by the representative of  Israel, Mr. Thomas indicated that the appropriation  of $7,000 represented the purchase of equipment.
(37) Mr. LEE (United States of America) suggested  that the project should be awarded a low priority,  as being a little premature, but would not press the  point,
(38) Mr. JOWELL (United Kingdom) asked what  countrirs were involved.
(39) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural  Activities) did not have before him the official  requests by Member States, but emphasized that,  wherever contacts were made with libraries and  documentation centres, the problem arose of ob-  taining the means for microfilming. Hitherto,  Unesco had done no more than give advice by indi-  cating the most effective technical methods, whereas  this item in the programme made provision for more  extensive direct assistance by making equipment and  materials available to any States which might request  them,
(40) The delegates of the United Kingdom, Israel  and Canada thought that the priority of the project  should be raised. A formal proposal to that effect  was made by Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) and seconded by  Mr. JUNANKAR (India).
(41) In reply to Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway), the  CHAIRMAN explained that, if the motion were lost,  the activity would remain equal in priority to other  projects.
(42) The proposal of the delegate of Israel was  rejected by 7 votes against, 3 in favour, with 1  abstention.   vi-1 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  Project 4,35: Development of museums  Paragraphs 278-295
(43) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural  Activities) drew attention to a textual amendment to  the 7rench version: the Executive Board thought  that the title of project A "La croisade des musées"  would be better worded "Campagne en faveur des  musées". The idea of this campaign had been  launched by the International Council of Museums  and several articles had appeared in Museum, in  order to bring home to local authorities and teachers  the potential value to the community of a museum in  its present-day concept. It was proposed that an  international museum day (or week) should be org-  anized - he himself preferred the idea of a week;  the preparations would be made in 1955 and the day  or week held in 1956. This was rather like what had  been done for public libraries some years previously  by means of a manifesto which had led to important  results.
(44) The CHAIRMAN, speaking as delegate of Aust-  ralia, said that his Government would give a lower  priority to a campaign of the kind described than to  action for direct aid.  Paragraphs 296-301
(45) No comment.  Paragraphs 302 and 303
(46) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural  Activities) said that these paragraphs referred to  continuous action by Unesco under a resolution  adopted at the sixth session of the General Conference  to encourage Member States to exchange exhibitions,  An exhibition organized by the Australian Natioral  Commission was at present on tour in the United  States of America and Canada, and the latter country  was prepared to organize another one. Unesco would  act as an intermediary or clearing house between  Member States, and its budget would not be affected.
(47) Mr. LEE (United States of America) hoped that  the Secretariat would continue to examine and appraise  the value of techniques used for international under-  standing. It was possible to exchange exhibitions  without increasing such understanding.
(48) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural  Activities) said that the United States delegate's views  would be taken into account.  Paragraphs 304-311
(49) No comment,  Paragraphs 312-317
(50) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultural  Activities) said that several States had approached  the Secretariat with requests, in some cases of a  very detailed nature. Burma, for instance, wanted  to start a museum and a national library, while india  - 682 -     and Pakistan had also approached Unesco, which  was planning to send combined missions to give  advice to these Governments over a lengthy period,
(51) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) said that the  United Kingdom National Commission thought that  aid to Burma, India and Pzkistan could be increased,  and he had earlier proposed reducing the allocation  for a travelling exhibition to that end. He thought  that a higher priority should be given to aid to  Member States than to mobile museums.
(52) Mr. LEE (United States of America) supported  the views of the United Kingdom delegate.
(53) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  observed that a motion to increase project E did  not necessarily imply a reduction in project D, a  reduction which in any case had been rejected by  an earlier vote.
(54) The CHAIRMAN tharked the Assistant Director-  General for his explanation but said that a formal  proposal would have to be made,
(55) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) proposed that a higher  priority be given to the whole project. The proposal  was seconded by the delegates of the United States  of America and France.
(56) The proposal of the delegate of India was  adopted by 8 votes to 1 with no abstentions,
(57) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) asked that the  Rapporteur should relate his remarks on Section E  to his earlier statement on Section D.
(58) After discussion, it was agreed that it was  not appropriate to include views in the report and  the United Kingdom delegate said that he would be  satisfied if the minutes of the previous meeting  reported his views sufficiently fully,
(59) In reply to a question by Mr. CABOUAT  (France) whether the Committee should give priority  to project E in exciuange for withholding it from  other projects, the CHAIRMAN said th-* the Com-  mittee was examining projects individually without  taking account of the relations between them.  Project 4.41: History of the Scientific and Cultural  Development o: Mankind  Paragraphs 318-325
(60) The CHAIRMAN drew attention to document
(61) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultu -  ral Activities) said that the project for a History of  the Scientilic and Cultural Development of Mankind,  which had been exhaustively discussed at previous  sessions of the General Conference, was well known  to the Committee and he would confine himself to  reporting tie most recent progress made. The  Commission had continued its work and had pub-  lished five Cahiers; it had held an important meeting   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VI-7  last February and its Bureau had met still more  recently. From its decisions it was clear that the  manuscript of the six volumes of the History was  to be ready at the end of 1956, but that the final  revision of the English text - the first to appeer -  would take up part of 1957; the History would be  published in 1858, The contract concluded with the  firm of Little, Brown and Co. specified that the  latter also undertook to publish two abridged editions,  the first in one vosume, designed for the general  public, and the second in two volumes, designed  for students. The Unesco Legal Affairs Bureau  considered this contract to be very satisfactory.  The problem of replacing two of the general editors  who had died had caused some delay, but the editing  was nevertheless making satisfactory progress. As  regards the budget, it had been decided at the seventh  session of the General Conference that $53, 000  should be allotted to this project in 1953 - a figure  which had been reduced to $30, 000 for 1954 - in the  hope of obtaining support from the Rockefeller  Foundation; the Foundation however had rejected  the request, as it felt that the scheme was a matter  for Unesco. At its extraordinary session in July
1953 the Conference authorized the grant of addi-  tional funds, which the Executive Board had fixed at  $27,000 for 1954; the same sum, to be exact,  $57,500, was requested fur the years 1955 and 1956,  the Executive Board having unanimously expressed  the opinion that the project should be completed.  Document 8C/PRG/7 gave all the details of the  draft project for 1955 and 1956.
(62) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) said that the  project had originally been opposed by Norway and  other countries, who thought it would be better  carried out by national bodies. Unesco's success,  however, was now acknowledged. But he would  like to have a nore detailed account of how the funds  had been spent.
(63) Mr. SILLER {Mexico) «sked what circulation  the Cahiers had had, what part Unesco had played  in their distribution and whether it would be advis-  able for Unesco to assist in pooularizing these  publications. Through the intermediary of Unesco  it might be possible to awaken interest in them in  certain circles which were otherwise difficult to  reach,
(64) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of Cultu-  ral Activities) said that the Cahiers were published  by a firm which distributed them under contract  with the Commission. The latter considered the  distribution to be insufficient and fresh talks had  been held between the Secretary-General of the  Commission, the publisher and a Unesco repres-  entative in order to plan a more energetic distri-  bution campaign.
(65) In reply to a question by Mr. SILLER (Mexico),  Mr. THOMAS said that Unesco had taken no action  yet but thought that its Publications Service might  help in distributing the Cahiers.
(66) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) associated  himself with the views of the delegate of Norway,  - 683 -     With regard to the point raised by the Mexican  delegate, he wondered whether there was any  possibility of the price of the Cahiers being reduced,  since their cost had been the chief obstacle to their  distribution.
(67) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) welcomed this statement,  which bore out the remarks of the Mexican delegate.  A preliminary report had been drawn up as a  result of discussions between the Commiss!c5, we  publisher and Unesco; the Secretariat hoped that a  serious effort would be made to distribute the  Cahiers and was ready to lend its help.
(68) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) said that there  should be more publicity; the project was unknown  in Scandinavian countries.
(69) Mr. BOW (Canada) asked whether funds  would be required after 1957-58.
(70) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) remarked that the needs of  the Commission would be fewer in 1957, since  there would be no more contracts to conclude nor  meetings to be provided for. Nineteen fifty-seven  would be devoted to the essential revision required  to give uniformity to the six volumes and it could  be assumed that the requisite estimate would be  very much below that asked for 1955 and 1956; in
1958, in the normal course of events, no further  budget should be needed for the History, as the  manuscript was to be delivered by the end of 1957.  Froject 4.42 - Study of cultural relations (para-  g-aphs 326-340)
(71) Mr. Thomas said that the title should be  changed to read: Study of relations between  cultures. Section À dealt with the publication of  reports on the international discussions, organized  in 1954, at Sao Paulo and Geneva, on the cultural  relations between Europe and America; !t was  proposed to publish the results of these discussions  and a selection of the communications.
(72) Section B comprised two parts, the first of  which was the continuing collaboration established  between Unesco and the Rencontres internationales  de Genève. The latter had been held for eight  years past. Since 1952 the Rencontres had con-  cluded a contract with Unesco and in 1954 agreed  to organize round-table discussions; the organizers  had made great efforts to adapt themselves to  Unesco methods and the Secretariat hoped that the  successful collaboration secured would be main-  tained. The second part concerned the countries  of Asia and America, and Unesco would line 10  organize these discussions in collaboration with  the United States National Commission.
(73) Mr. LEE (United States of America) considered  the section of great importance. With regard to  the discussion referred to in paragraph 335, the  idea of international discussions between repres-  entatives of Asian and American cultures was  favourably received by the American National   VI-7 ADVISORY COMMITTEE O°  Commission, which welcomed the opportunity for  participation. He hoped that there would be adequate  preparatory work so that the representatives from  the two areas would have some prior knowledge and  understanding of each other's culture and traditions.
(74) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) asked how the  figures 1n paragraph 336 were related to the propo-  sals in paragraphs 334 and 335.
(75) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) explained that the sums men-  tioned in paragraph 336 were divided between the  two projects, the appropriation for 1955 being  allotted to project (i) and that for 1956 to project (ii).
(76) Mr. CABOUAT (France) supported the remarks  of the United States representative on the importance  of the part which might be played by Section B in the  development of international understanding.
(77) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) then gave an outline of Sectiou C  (peragraphs 337-339), which was the reply to a  request presented to Unesco some considerable  time ago. The Pan-American Institute of Geography  and History and the National Archives of Mexico  had undertaken to make an invento-y of these docu-  ments so as to begin a study of them. Unesco had  been requested to facilitate access to the archives  concerned, and to help the missions which came to  carry out the investigation. Mr. Thomas stressed  the importance of this project both for the history  of Latin America and for that of the development of  relations between America and Europe; 1t was the  natural sequel to the Geneva discussions, which  was why it had been included in the programme.
(78) The CHAIRMAN asked how many research  workers would be provided under the $8, 000 allowed  for 1955 and 1956 and for what period.
(79) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) asked whether the con-  tracts included publication and, if so, how research  was provided for.
(80) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Departmen of  Cultural Activities) said that there was only one  contract with a qualified organization - to enable  it to organize a mission, there was no question  cf publ‘-ations.
(81) The CHAIRMAN asked on what basis the pre-  liminary figure of $8, 0C0 had been calculated.
(82) Mr, RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Programme  and Budget) explained that it was difficult to make  precise calculations, but it had been assumed that  there would be one expert in each year for approxi-  mately eight months.
(83) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) questioned  the urgency of the project on the history of Latin  America in paragraph 338 and the priority  accorded to it.
(84) Mr. SILLER (Mexico), in reply to the  - 684 -     PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  representative of the United Kingdom, said that at  one time some doubts were felt in Mexico as to the  direction which these investigations should take,  and who should carry them out, since some sectors  of public opinion thought it was purely a domestic  matter. However, as certain Latin American  countries had no connexions with the European  countries where the enquiries would be conducted,  and Unesco offered better opportunities for dis-  seminating the results, he approved the project,
(85; The sum allotted to this work should be  maintained until States were in a position to carry  it out themselves.
(86) Project adopted.  Project 4.43: Dissemination of the visual arts  and music  Paragraphs 341-350
(87) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) said that the credits included  in paragraph 350 were intended for the publication  of revised editions of the two catalogues which had  already appeared; the catalogues were having a  large sale.  Paragraphs 351-353
(88) This series in which tws volumes had already  appeared, would be cortinued with the publication  of an album on aboriginal Australian art. The  credits provided would permit the publication of  three volumes a year; in 1955 they would be  devoted to Norway, Yugoslavia and Iran.
(89) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) strongly  supported the preparation of albums of reproductions  of works of art but questioned the high figure for  staff travel.
(90) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) said that Unesco's function  was to provide the negatives. The practice was  to send a specialist to the place in question,  accompanied by a photographer of the firm of Pizzi,  who would take the pictures. The appropriations  mentioned in paragraph 353 were intended to cover  the costs of three missions in three countries each  year. As the emphasis was to be on little known  works of art, mostly situated in Asia and Latin  America, the travelling expenses would be rela-  tively high. The publisher was responsible for  publishing and distributing the albums at his own  expense; he refunded a percentage of the selling  price to Unesco.
(91) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) was also strongly in  favour of the project, which was an important  method of promoting cultural understanding. He  would like to see more spent on the project and  suggested that the Secretariat might prepare a  more comprehensive plan on a five or ten year  basis. It was important, however, that such  publications should be within the reach of ordinary  people. Their price was at present prohibitive,   ADVISORY COMMITTEE  He asked whether Unesco could consider itself fin-  ancing a project for providing lower priced pubh-  cations.
(92) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) asked for  information on receipts from the sales of publica-  tions. Although the price was high, he wondered  if it covered all overheads, including such items as  staff travel, While appreciating the views of the  Indian delegate, it was difficult to maintain quality  with low costs, and the public must recognize that,  if it wished for culture, it might have to sacrifice  other things.
(93) The CHAIRMAN, speaking as delegate of  Australia, asked whether National Commissions  could help the project in kind, for instance by  contributing coloured photos (Ektachromes) for the  albums. It was not unreasonable to expect the  Commissions to participate in disseminating  culture.
(94) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) referring to the remark by the  Indian representative on the high selling price of  the albums, stated that at $15 they were still very  much cheaper than other publications with such a  high class content. Unesco supplied the publisher  with the Ektachrcmes and the commentaries. The  number of copies printed (10,000) was considerable  for works of this k:nd, and the albums were widely  distributed owing to the fact that they were issued  in several languages. The publisher remitted 1%  of the selling price to Unesco; for three albums  this represented about $2,25C per annum. Although  this sum did not reimburse Unesco for all its  expenses, it enabled systematic surveys to be  carried out in all those countries whosc paintings  were little known, Despite this, Mr. Thomas  agreed with the Indian representative in considering  that Unesco should prepare a systematic plan, for  five years or more, which could be submitted to  the next session of the General Conference, It  should be noted, on the other hand, that the possibi-  lities of distributing such works were not unlimited,  and he wondered whether Unesco could not get the  publisher to agree to publishing 6 albums each year.  He mentioned that the Australian National Commis-  sion had arranged to take a number oi photographs  at its own expense, but it would be difficult to ask  other National Commissions to do the same.
(95) The Secretariat was ready to study the sug-  gestion, but Mr. Thomas observed that, if Unesco  undertook to bear the essential cost, it could visit  the various places itself and form its own opinion  whether the works were of world-wide interest.  The Secretariat would, however, welcome a recom-  mendation by the Conference suggesting that Mem-  ber States should bear part of the cost.  Project C (paragraphs 354-356)
(86) Mr. Thomas recalled that this activity already  had quite a history, the first exhibition had been  shown in 34 countries, the second in 36, the third  in 47, and the fourth, which was of Japanese prints,  was currently circulating; it had already visited 20  oo     - 685 -  PROGHKHAMME AND BUDGET VI-7  countries and in equal number were still expecting  it, Mr, Thomas stressed that these exhibitions  were warmly welcomed everywhere, and he stated  that the next would be devoted to Chinese art. A  selection of works already exhibitied would be  shown in Montevideo during the current session  of the General Conference. Mr. Thomas con-  cluded by saying that, in accordance with a recom-  mendation of the General Conference, the last  two exhibitions had dealt with oriental art and that  the Secretariat intended to continue the series.
(97) The CHAIRMAN asked whether the cost of  supplies included the cost of sending and insurirg  exhibitions as far as the first benefiting country.
(98) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) said that the Mexican  National Commission had much pleasure 1n sup-  porting the project. The exhibition of reproductions  of Japanese art had had considerable success in  in Mexico. It had been shown in three galleries,  one of them a State .nstitution. In connexion with  the exhibition three lectures had been given by the  Japanese cultural attaché, by Sehor Octavio Paz,  and another expert respectively. The welcome  given to this art exhibition had led to its being  extended for a further three months.
(99) Mr, CABOUAT (France) said that he had  already mentioned the importance attached by the  French National Commission to these travelling  exhibitions, His own impression confirmed the  remarks of the Mexican delegate and led him to  suggest that the Secretariat, while continuing to  place sample exhibitions at the disposal of Member  States, should also sponsor the sale of the repro-  ductions exhibited; the money thus collected could  be used to set up a fund which would =nable fresh  exhibitions to be held with no additional cost to  Unesco. The execution of the project would  undoubtedly be facilitated by collaboration with the  International Association of Plastic Arts, the  Association of Art Critics and the International  Council of Museums .
(100) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Pro-  gramme and Budget) referred the Committee to  the Appropriation Resolution. Any receipts by  Unesco from sales were credited to miscellaneous  income and shown as a reduction in the Appropri-  ation Resolution.
(101) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom), returmng  to the question of sales, felt that the time had  come to draw up a balance sheet of commercial  activities. it would be useful in discussions at  the General Conference.
(102) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-Gereral)  said that, if it was a question of obtaining inform-  ation on the cost of, and possible revenue from,  the project, the Secretariat was at the Committee's  disposal to provide further details. If, on the  other hand, the question at issve was the principle  of placing the programme on a commercial basis,  the Director-General, he feared, might voice  some surprise and regret at such a principle   VI-7 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  bein g raised in their discussions, especially in a  cultural context.
(103) The CHAIRMAN interpreted the United King-  dom delegate's intention as being to show that, if  revenue were taken into account, the cost of some  projects might be less than appeared from the  budget.
(104) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Programme  and Budget) suggested that discussion of revenue  bringing items might better be left until the Appro-  priation Resolution was discussed. He realized that  it would be useful to have the facts: for example,  the Catalogue of Colour Reproductions (paragraph
347) had already more than covered its cost, and  such a fact was good propaganda for Unesco in  securing approval for other projects. He promised  that full information would be supplied by the time  the Appropriation Resolution came up for discussion.
(105) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) associated himself  with the views of the Mexican delegate. While he  agreed with the United Kingdom delegate that it was  worth knowing how far some activities paid their  way, it was important not to become obsessed with  economies: there were dangers in commercial  balance sheeting.  Paragraphs 357-359
(106) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) said that these three paragraphs  concerning project D, had been transferred from the  programme of the Department of Cultural Activities  to that of Mass Communication.  Paragraphs 360-362
(107) Mr. Thomas said that these recordings were  made under the auspices of the International Music  Council with the help of a Unesco subsidy. All that  the Secretariat did was to receive some copies of  the recordings for distribution to Member States.  The appropriation of $800 provided for under para-  graph 359 for 1955 and 1956 was to cover the pur-  chase of special containers for transporting the  records.
(108) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) asked whether  the records referred to in paragraph 361 were distri-  buted free of charge or sold.
(109) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) replied that, in the case of folk  music recordings, an agreement had been made  with the Museum of Ethnography in Geneva, which  produced the records selected by a committee of  experts and sold them to learned societies. The  International Music Council received no "ercentage  of these sales. In the case of contemporary music,  IMC acted as adviser to the publishing houses; in  both cases a number of records were sent to Unesco  for information of Member States.  Paragraphs 363-368
(110) Mr. Thomas referred to the agreements  - 686 -     concluded with the boards of adjudicators at the  Biennales of Venice and Sao Paulo, which enablad  certain works to be reproduced and so become  better known. In the case of music IMC had under-  taken to have recordings made and musical scores  printed. He drew attention to paragraph 367, con-  cerning travel grants awarded to artists and writers,  to a total of 5 for the years 1953 and 1954; the  Secretariat hoped to raise this figure to 7 for the  years 1955 and 1956.  Paragraphs 369-371
(111) Mr. Thomas said that the aim of this project  was to request National Commissions to conduct an  experiment in using all the modern methods of re-  production to encourage wider and more systematic  public interest in artistic matters. The locality  selected for the experiment should be a town of  medium size, ard the results would indicate what  could be done to improve public taste.
(112) He added that there were two reasons why a  reduction had been made in the budget for 1955.  First, they were anxious that the reintroduction of  the Index Translationum should not lead to an  increase iu the budget ceiling, and they had looked  to see where savings could be made. Second, in
1955 a survey only would be made in the Member  States, in which the Secretariat would collaborate,  the project would not be put in hand until 1356.
(113) Mr. LEE (United States of America) said  that, after studying all the art projects, he believed  that the one under discussion was the least import-  ant and proposed its postponement.
(114) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) seconded  the proposal.
(115) The proposal of the United States delegate was  adopted by 6 votes to 3 with 2 abstentions.  Project 4.44: Translations (paragraphs 375-391)
(116) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) emphasized the great import-  ance of this project, which was beginning to show  results. He referred members of the Committee  to the draft programme, where all the necessary  explanations would be found. The project was pro-  gressing in a succession of series, the order of  priority being Arabic, Ibero-American, Italian and  Persian, in which 9, 6, 3 and 1 volumes respectively  had been published, The General Conference had  decided to extend this activity to the literature of  Asia, and the Secretariat had turned its attention  to India, Japan, Pakistan and Thailand; 25 works  were in process of translation or printing, and  negotiations were proceeding on 20 others, but no  contracts had yet been concluded,
(117) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) strongly supported  the project and said that he would welcome an  extension of activity for both periods.
(118) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) agreed with  the delegate of India on the importance of the work.   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON  He regretted that there had been such a small output  and thought that staff costs were too high in propor-  tion to achievement.
(119) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) noted the Indian representative's  wish for an increase in the number of volumes pub-  lished; as already stated, 25 volumes were in  course of production and 20 were being negotiated.  The difficulties attaching to this translation pro-  gramme were that it dealt with little known languages  for which only an extremely limited number of com-  petent translators were available and, in addition,  revision of the texts entailed considerabie delay.  The practice was to ask publishing firms to take  over publication on the basis of contracts concluded  with Unesco, which undertook to buy a certain num-  ber of copies of each work. Remarking that it was  not easy to find publishers, Mr. Thomas said that  later on Unesco itself might possibly assume the  cost of printing and commercial distribution. A  professional publisher, however, would seem to  have greater opportunities of reaching the public;  another difficulty was bound up with the question of  copyright, which also implied negotiations, Finally,  he said he could assure the Committee that 25  volumes would shortly be appearing.
(120) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) hoped that  the output wou:l eventually justify the initial outlay.  He asked for more information on how costs in  paragraph 375 were calculated, and how the staff  costs were apportioned.
(121) Mr. RAO (Acting Head, Bureau of Programme  and Budget) said that other costs included contracts  and meetings. In distributing staff costs, however,  it was difficult to assess what percentage should be  applied to ech project. The amounts of $32, 375  for 1955 and $33,195 for 1956 were based on the  assumption that approximately 25% of the budget of  the Division of Arts and Letters would be assigned  to the project, including salaries and other staff  costs under the Staff Regulations.  Paragraphs 398-414
(122) Miss LAISE (United States of America) noted  that the staff of the Office of the Director followed  the same pattern throughout the Organization, regard-  less of the number of staff employed. She also  questioned the need for an additional clerk-steno-  grapher (paragraph 403) in connexion with the imple-  mentation of the International Convention for the  Protection of Cultural Property.
(123) Mr, MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  thought, in view of the United States delegate's first  remark, that it would be better to discuss this prob-  lem of the staffing of the Director's office in relation  to all Departments; to treat one Department separ-  ately fron. others might lead to unfair conclusions.
(124) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) pointed out that paragraph 403,  as at present worded, called for a single post of  clerk-stenographer E; in the corrigendum,  - 687 -     PROGRAMME AND BUDGET Vv1-7  provision was made, in addition, for a clerk-  archivist F. He would mention that, since the  Convention was signed, the work of the Secretariat  had considerably increased; the Convention might  come into operation shortly and it would then be  essential to create this second post because of the  specific tasks devolving upon the Secretariat, which  it could not carry out with its present staff.
(125) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) asked Mr. Thomas  whether the explanation he had just given referred  to one or both of the posts in question.
(126) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) said it referred to both posts.
(127) Mr. CABOUAT (France) asked whether in
1954 any posts had been created for the work of  preparing the Convention.
(128) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) said that a temporary post of  secretary-stenographer had been created in order  to deal with the large amount of correspondence.  There would, however, be further tasks for the  Secretariat once the Convention came into force -  such as keeping a register of the works in each  country which would be protected under the Con-  vention, a list of which was to be communicated by  the Secretariat to all Member States; the two posts  for which permission was sought represented the  minimum establishment necessary.
(129) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) proposed the retention  of only one of the two posts requested in the amended  paragraph 403.
(130) Mr. CABOUAT (France) said thet the French  delegation felt somewhat reluctant to accept the  proposals of the Secretariat. Every country had a  central department with similar functions in such  cases; in France, the fact of being the depository  for a convention or agreement did not mean that  new posts had to be created.
(131) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-Generai)  said that he was not proposing to evaluate the amount  of work which this new situation would entail, but  wanted to refer to the arguments adduced by the  representative of the United States of America  against creating these two posts. It was because  Unesco hoped that the Convention would shortly be  ratified that the Secretariat had estimated the  amount of work which would result. He also pointed  cut to the representative of France that the respon-  sibilities devolving upon Unesco in this connexion  could not be compared w.… “ose of a country with  which a diplomatic instrum..at was deposited, for  example, the obligations of the United Kingdom in  regard to the Unesco Constitution; it was not  simply a question of depositing a text in the archives,  but of keeping a register, with all the complicated  work which this involved.
(132) Mr, SILLER (Mexico) proposed that the posts  should not be filled immediately, but only when the  need arose, i, e. when the Convention had been ratified.   VI-T ADVISCRY COMMITIEE
(133) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) pointed out that only five rat:{i-  cations were needed for the Convention tu rome into  force, He emphasized that, apart from keeping a  register, Unesco would then have many other  responsibilities.
(134) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) asked whether these  posts could not be provided when the need arose,  or had they to be approved immediately because  they would otherwise be suppressed?
(135) He pointed out that the United States delega-  tion's proposal differed from his own. What his  delegation proposed was that the posts should be  created when the need for them arose.
(136) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  said it was merely a matter of making provision in  the budget for a situation that was expected to arise.  The Director-General would only decide to create  the post if it were found necessary after the Con-  vention had come into force - a contingency which
1t was expected would arise during the 1955-58  financial year; these posts would be of 4 rather  permanent value, whereas temporary posts were  for some ten or tweive months only.  ON PR     - 688 -  OGRAIMME AND BUDGET
(137) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) asked whether any  ratification had yet been received.
(138) Mr. THOMAS (Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) replied in the negative.
(139) Mr. CABOUAT (France) thought that, if the  Department of Cultural Activities needed staff to  administer the Convention, there was no reason  why that staff should not be in the permanent  category. He therefore supported the proposal by  the delegate of Israel.
(140) The proposal of the delegate of Israel,  seconded by the delegate of France, was put to the  vote and adopted unanimously.
(141) The CHAIRMAN announced that Natural  Sciences would be discussed at the next meeting.
(142) Miss LAISE (United States of America)  reserved the right to comment on the section of  the programme dealing with copyright (Cultural  Activities, project 4,13).  The neeting rose at 7.30 p.m.