(45) Mr, COWELL seconded the riotion, but with  some reluctance, 2) he was a member of the Advisory  Committee on Prog ‘amme and Budget, which had to  examine all the dri It resolutions, The French and  Polish proposals b ought their number up to 64. He  hoped that, in futu e, delegations wou'd not submit  draft resolutions « ter the deadline.
(50) Mr. BERNA], JIMENEZ support:d Mr .Berredo  Carneirc's propo: al and agreed with the interpreta-  tion given by the ! nited Kingdom representative. He  thought that the question should be treated as an  exceptional case 1 >r the reasons given by Mr.  Carneiro. ;
(51) Mr. BOURGEOIS agreed with the United  Kingdom delegate. He would like to see special stress  SECOND     COMMITTEE  laid onthe exceptional character of the treatment it was  proposed to give to the draft resolutions in question,
(52) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES announced that the  Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget would  include in its report a recommendation that, in future  years, Member States should be asked to submit new  draft resolutions at a time when the Director-General  could take them into cons!deration in preparing the  draft programme and budget for the next two years.
(53) The motion proposed by Mr. Berredo  Carneiro was adopted.  The meeting rose at 10.35 a.m.  MEETING
15 November u. 9 a. me  Chairman : Mr. ZAVALA MUNIZ (Uruguay)
(1) The CHAIRMAN informed the General Committee  that the Republic of Cuba had paid a sufficient pro-  portion of its arrears to enable it to take part with  full voting rights in the General Conference. The  delegation of Venezuela, on the other hand, would  not be attending the eighth session of the General  Conference.
(2) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL drew attention to the  fact that Venezuela's failure to send a delegation to  the eighth session of the General Conference meant  that the Headquarters Committee was without a  Chairman., He suggested that the General Committee  might wish to appoint as Chairman Mr. Berredo  Carneiro (Brazil), who had served on the Headquar-  ters Committee for a long time. In order not to  lose a Latin American seat on the General Committee,  he suggested that a delegate of à Latin American  country be appointed Vice-Chairman.
(3) Mr. RUIZ-GIMENEZ concurred in the Director-  General's proposal.
(4) Mr. BERNAL JIMENEZ also agreed with the  proposal that Mr. Berredo Carneiro, delegate of  Brasil, be appointed Chairman of the Headquarters  Committee and that the vacancy created by that ap-  pointment among the ten Vice-Presidents of the  General Conference be filled by a representative of  Latin America,
(5) Mr.BERREDO CARNEIRO accepted that proposal,
(6) The agenda having been completed, the CHAIRMAN  - 240 -     called upon the Chairmen of commissions and com-  mittees to report on the progress of work in their  respective bodies.
(7) Mr, GARDNER DAVIES announced that the Ad-  visory Committee on Programme and Budget had  completed its detailed examination of the Director-  General's draft programme and budget for 1955-58,  Further, it had completed, with two exceptions, its  examination of draft resolutions submitted by dele-  gations to the eighth session of the General Conference,  The Committee would be considering its report that  evening, and it should be ready for distribution  sometime the following day. In accordance with its  terms of reference, the Committee's report was to  go to the Programme and Budget Commission and to  the Administrative Commission. The Advisory  Committee hoped that the Administrative Comm:ssion  would examine the two following points as soon as  possible: (1) the scale of contributions for 1955-36;
(2) the method of financing the budget for 1955-56,  Until the Administrative Commission had taken a  decision on the first point, the General Conference  could not consider the question of the total budget  figure for 1955-56, With regard to the second polat,  by special decision of the General Conference, the  budget surplus of previous years had been used in
1953-54 to finance the current budget.
(8) Mr. BEEBY stated that the Administrative Com-  mission had held its first meeting on Saturday  afternoon, when it had elected its officers and set up  a Committee on Contributions. The Committee was  to meet in the afternoon and the whole of the nextday   GENERAL  (Tuesday, 16 November) to discuss means of finan-  cing the budget, and it was hoped that it would be able  to report back to the Commission on that subject by  Wednesday morning at the latest. With regard to the  Commission's own agenda, it would first examine  she Auditor's Report and would then go on (on Tuesday  morning, 16 November) to consider the important  question of the structure of the Executive Board.
(8) Mr. Beeby asked the Chairman if the question of  China's contribution was to be referred to the  Administrative Commission.
(10) The CHAIRMAN replied in the affirmative,
(11) In reply to a question from Mr. KABIR, Mr.  BEEBY said that the Secretariat had already drawn  up a tentative scale of contributions for 1955-56.
(12) Mr. GARDNER uA IES asked if the Adminis-  trative Cominission cuuld consider the means of  financing the budget and the question of budgetary  surpluses within 48 hours.
(13) Mr. BEEBY replied that, in his opinion, it  would be better for the Commission to consider that  question on the basis of the report of the Advisory  Committee. He therefore suggested that the itembe  taken by the Commission on Wednesday afternoon.  THIRD     COMMITTEE m-3
(14) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES agreed,
(15) Mr. VERONESE reminded the meeting that 3  December was the date scheduled for the election of  the Executive Board, The procedure for that election  would depend on whether the General Conference  accepted the proposed amendment to Article V of the  Constitution. Mr. Veronese would therefore be glad  to know whether the Administrative Commission would  soon be able to submit a preliminary report on the  problems raised by that draft amendment (item 9.3.1  of agenda of the Conference).
(16) Mr.BEEBY replied that he expected the Commis-  sion to be able to make an interim report including that  item. He did not share the fears of certain delegates, who  believed that the debate on the structure of the Executive  Board would last three or four days; he very much hoped  that it would be possible to conclude i: on Tuesday after-  noon. The question would then have to be referred to  the Legal Committee. It was important to report on  the matter to the Conference in plenary meeting as  soon as possible, as the Secretariat had informed him  that there would be a fortnight's work to be done be-  tween the Conference's decision and the election of  members of the Executive Board.  The meeting rose at 9,35 a.m.  MEETING
17 November 1954 at 9 a. m.  Chairman : Mr. ZAVALA MUNIZ (Uruguay)
(1) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL announced that the  Secretariat had some suggestions to make regarding  the sequence of work of the General Conference. He  requested the Assistant Director-General to explain  what the Secretariat proposed.
(2) Mr. MAHEU pointed out that the time-table of  work depended mainly on when the Programme and  Budget Commission fixed the provisional budget  total. [t could do so only after it received the  Report of the Administrative Commission on:(1) the  scale of contributions, and (2) the financing of the  projects included in the programme.
(3) Mr. Maheu thought that the Administrative Com-  mission would be able to submit its report on  Monday, 22 November, s0 that on Tuesday morning,
23 November, the Programme and Budget Commission  could consider the problem of fixing the provisional  budget total.
(4) Mr. BEEBY replied that he thought it à fair  estimate. The Administrative Commission would  start on financial questions that afternoon and he    was sure that it would be in a position to report on  Monday morning at the latest.
(5) Mr. MAHEU submitted the Secretariat's proposals  concerning the sequence of work of the Programme  and Budget Commission. The Commission would not  start discussing its agenda proper until the morning  of 18 November, but might be holding its first meet-  ing in the afternoon of 17 November to appoint its  officers and consider some organizational questions.  By Monday, 22 November, the Commission would  Lave to consider three major questions and Mr.  Maheu indicated the order proposed by the  Secretariat for those discussions:
(8) (1) General discussion of the Proposed Pro-  gramme and Budget for 1955-56. The draft pro-  gramme would be presented by the Chairman of the  Executive Board and the Director-General on 18  November at the morning meeting. At the same  meeting the Chairman of the Advisory Committee on  Programme and Budget would submit his report,
(7) (2) General consideration of the document pre-  pared by the Executive Board on the Remodelling of  - 241 -