COMMITTEE ON REPORTS  Director-General) considered that, as far as the aims  of the Committee on Reports of Member States were  concerned, resolution 30.214 approved at the fifth  session of the General Conference, should be read  out.
(40) Sir Kenneth GRUBB (United Kingdom) proposed  that the Secretariat should prepare a paper on the  OF MEMBER STATES  lines already suggested and submit 1t to the next  meeting. It would then be possible for the working  groups to be set up and start work immediately.
(41) The proposal was seconded by Mr. WIDDOWSON  (Union of South Africa) and adopted.  The meeting rose at 12.05 p. m.  THIRD MEETING
15 November 1954 at 10.30 am.  Chairman : Mr. AL-HANI (lraq)  ITEM 10.2 OF REVISED AGENDA: CONSIDERATION OF  REPORTS PRESENTED BY MEMBER STATES FOR 1952-33  (continued)
(1) The CHAIRMAN said that following the decision  taken ut the previous meeting, a list had been  p epared (document 8C/DIV/75) naming the members  + the working groups ard the reports which each  would have to study. He proposed that the delegate  of Turkey, who had just arrived, be included in the  French-speaking group The paper was before the  Committee for comment.
(2) In reply to a question from the delegate of France,  the CHAIRMAN said that each group was free to  arrange 1ts own methods of work.
(3) Document 8C/DIV/75 was approved without  further comment.
(4) Mr. FRANCOVICH (Representative of the  Director-General) announced that the report from  the Government of Brazil had just been received and  asked wnether the Committee was prepared to accept  it as it had the other reports which arrived after the  prescribed date.
(5) Mr. TUNCEL (Turkey), speaking as former  Chairman of the Committee, proposed that the report  be accepted, in accordance with the practice followed  at the previous session of the General Conference.
(6) The proposal was seconded by the delegate of  the United States of America and adopted.
(7) The CHAIRMAN said that the report was in  English ard would accordingly be assigned to one of  the English-speaking groups.
(8) He drew attention to the typewritten document  which the Secretariat had prepared following the    statements by the delegates of the United Kingdom  and the United States of America on the purpose and  task of the Committee.
(9) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  complimented the Secretariat on the document and  said that it would help to secure umformity of the  working groups' reports.
(10) The docume. was approved.
(11) The CHAIRMAN announced that the next meeting  of the Committee was due to take place on Wednesday
17 November at 3.30 p. m. He asked whether that  would give the working groups enough time to  prepare their reports, and pointed out that it  would not be necessary for all of them to be  ready for that meeting.
(12) Mr. TERAN ROBALINO (Ecuador) considered  the time too short and asked if the meeting  could be postponed until Thursday or Friday.
(13) Mr. HAZOUME (France) asked whether the  meeting could be deferred until Friday, as his  group had sixteen reports to study
(14) The CHAIRMAN said that the Secretariat  had 1.formed him that, for administrative  reasons, a meeting could be held on Thursday  but not on Friday.
(15) Mr. TERAN ROBALINO (Ecuador) said that  the report of the Spanish-speaking group could  be ready by Thursday.  The meeting rose at 11.05 a.m.  - 911 -