PROGRAMME AND BUDGET COMMISSION IV-11  ELEVENTH MEETING
25 November 1954 at 3.37 p. m.  Chairman: Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland)  ITEM 8.4.1 OF THE REVISED AGENDA: EDUCATION (continued)  Project 1.12: Clearing House and Advisory  Services
(1) The CHAIRMAN called or. «ne Commission to  comment on resolutions 1,121 and 1.122 and the  relevant work plans (paragraphs 64 to 111).
(2) A number of draft amendments submitted by  Member States would have to be studied in con-  junction with the resolutions.
(3) Mr. PRATT (Australia) asked permission of  the meeting to deal with resolution 1.121 (para-  graph 64) in combination with resolution 1,122  (paragraph 68) as the two were closely connected,
(4) The Australian delegation regarded the  Clearing House activities as of the greatest  importance, They certainly fulfilled the catalytic  function of Unesco as described by the delegate  of India. The great value of that work implied  a danger lest the volume of requests (150 had  been received in one week) immobilize the Depart-  ment, A high level of discernment was needed in  dealing with those requests in the appropriate  manner, On that ground, the delegate of  Australia questioned the proposal outlined in  paragraph 77 to call in six documentalists for  consultation. He urged that not too much should  be expected in that direction, and made the same  remark in connexion with the proposals in  paragraph 99. He stressed the importance of  National Ccmmissions in connexion with Clearing  House activities.
(5) Mr. Pratt supported resolution 1,121, but  felt that, with regard to resolution 1.122, more  emphasis should be laid on the second part, namely,  "the educational programme of Unesco’, than on  "the needs of Member States’, which, however  important, made the field too wide,
(6) Mr. AL-KOUSSI (Egypt) suggested that there  was a relation between the stage of a country's  development and its interest in a clearing house,  which was wanted for purposes of resea~ch and  exchange. It would be a good plan to make  countries more clearing house conscious. Expert  advice would be needed to co-ordinate the work  done here and there by Ministry departments.  The Egyptian Ministry of Educatio«.. was interested  in setting up a local clearing house, and intended  to consult Unesco on the matter,
(7) Mr. ZAMORANO HERNANDEZ (Chile),  speaking of resolution 1,122, said that the  - 320 -     Education Clearing House should be divided into  sections, each of which would deal with a  different part of the world, covering countries  with similar features. Every Member State was  interested in all kinds of educational experiments  throughout the world, but interest was greater  when the information supplied related to countries  with which a State had closer affinities.
(8) Paragraph 77 spoke of calling in six docu-  mentalists "to discuss the results of the survey  of documentation centres” and "to advise on  common problems of educational bibliography".  It would be very helpful if those specialists were  chosen to represent different parts of the world,  and one of them might well represent the Latin  American countries.
(9) Referring to paragraph 99, which dealt with the  ways in which Unesco proposed to collaborate with  national bodies concerned with educational matters,  Mr, CALO (Italy) pointed out that there were a  number of such institutions in Western Europe,  and particularly in France and Italy, which might  be of great help. He therefore felt that sufficient  sums should be provided in the budget to enable  Unesco to make contracts not only with the American  Education Research Association but also with  similar organization in Western Europe. Referring  to the figures given in paragraph 100a, he according-  ly suggested that the estimates for 1955-56  ($18,080 and $8, 080) be increased respectively  to $20, 000 (or even $21,000) and $10, 000 (or  even $11, 000). Should his proposal be considered  unacceptable, the amounts provided for "staff  travel" might perhaps be somewhat reduced in  order to increase the amounts requested in the  budget for 'contracts'’,
(10) Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) associated  himself with the views expressed by the delegate  of Egypt, and added that his country had many  years since set up a national clearing house in  imitation of Unesco's, But the work done in that  respect by Unesco was not well known enough in  the United Kingdom. He wondered if the Secretariat  could provide an authoritative article (or material  for one) for publication in the educational journals  of his country and perhaps in others.
(11) Mr, CASSANI (Argentina) said that his  delegation considered the conteuts of the chapter  under examination to be very important, and was  in agreement with the Italian delegation. The  sums shown in paragraph 81 for financing the  documentation unit should be increased by $5, 000
1v-11 PROGRAMME AND  a year, If such an increase were not possible, his  delegation would not withdraw its motion, as it was  anxious that its desires in that respect should  remain on record. It was very important that  studies carried out in one country should be  publicized in others and Unesco should be res-  ponsible for the supply and exchange of infor.nation,
(12) Mr. Cassani was in agreement with the  Australian representative, The establishment of  a large educational information centre would be  one of the most useful contributions to progress  in the world,
(13) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) had little to add to  previous speakers! remarks about the work plans  for resolution 1,122, With reference to paragraph
92, he wished to point out, however, that the  Secretariat seemed to underrate the studies there  mentioned. Such studies on Human Rights and, in  particular, on the right to education laid down in  Article 26 of the Universal Declaration, had, he  reminded the Commission, been repeatedly  requested. It was very much to be hoped, there-  fore, that the Secretariat would take more active  measures to carry them out,
(14) Mr, ESTELRICH (Spain), commenting on  paragraph 101 of the proposed programme and  budget, praised the work being carried out by the  Department of Education, That work might be  supplemented by the publication of an international  educational review, which would supply infor mation  and, while avoiding controversial subjects, would  give practical and theoretical advice. The review  might suggest curricula and serve as a guide to  teachers,
(15) The representative of Spair was sure that  the Secretariat would have interesting suggestions  to make concerning that project,
(16) Mr. STEINIG (United Nations) stressed the  great importance of Unesco's contributions to the  United Nations in many of its major activities. He  made the following remarks on paragraphs 83-100,  For the first time specific financial provision had  been made for the reports and studies Unesco  provided in the field of education. Referring to  paragraphs 186-196 he appreciated the fact that  teaching about the United Nations and the Universal  Declaration of Human Rights had now been recognized  as a specific responsibility, Suitable information  was to be made available to teachers, and an effort  to provide basic teaching materials and documents  for the classroom, The operative provisions  however remained unchanged. The Secretariat  might consider extending the scope of its assistance  to the United Nations in that field,
(17) The report referred to in paragraph 89, he  informed the meeting, would be concluded during  the year, That might affect the studies mentioned,
(18) On paragraph 93, the status of women, a  further resolution affecting Unesco had been  adopted by the Commission on the Status of Women  at its eighth session, and, on its recommendation,  approved by the Economic and Social Council,  It called for studies in connexion with school  attendance, the vocational education of girls, and  BUDGET COMMISSION  the use of women as teachers, On paragraph 94,  racial discrimination, the study was not to be  limited to questicns of race, and Mr, Steinig  thought the word 'racial' might be eliminatzd  from the paragraph.
(19) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Educa-  tion) repliea to the points that had been raised by  members of the Commission,
(20) The correction called for by the delegate of  the United Nations had already been made.
(21) He would be very happy to comply with the  request of the delegate of the Urited Kingdom for  an article on the clearing house activities of Unesco,
(22) Replying to the delegate of Australia on the  volume of requests handled by the Unesco clearing  house, he said the normal average was about 150  requests a month, The were of all conceivable  kinds, and every effort was made to control the  degree of attention granted to them, Mr. Elvin  felt however that all requests should receive some  answer, Decentralization was necessary, and  he appreciated the remarks of the Egyptian delegate  in that connexion. To be successful, Unesco's  work depended on the creation of educational  clearing houses in all the Member States, The  visit of documentalists questioned by the Australian  delegate had been planned with that aim in mind,  To the delegate of Chile he replied that Unesco  aimed at a broad coverage but the specialists of  clearing houses could only be invited where such  clearing houses were already in existence. The  idea behind the project in paragraph 99 (referred to  by the delegate of Australia) was to get research  workers thinking along lines favourable to the work  of Unesco, and to inform the Organization of their  results,
(23) Answering the delegate of Italy, Mr. Elvin  said that his department was aware of the existence  in other parts of the world of organizations such as  the delegate of Italy had mentioned. They could  however only be assisted one at a time, The next  Conference would be free to decide where the next  effort was to be made, If the Commission did not  vote an increase in the budget for that activity,  Mr, Elvin thought it would be unwise to make a  cut in the sums required for the first effort.
(24) To the Spanish delegate, Mr. Elvin replied  that the Secretariat had considéred an international  educational review for the draft programme, but  the Hamburg Institute had decided to start one  itself, and it would probably be better that it should  be run under strictly professional auspices.
(25) In conclusion, Mr. Elvin thanked tne delegate  of the United Nations for his remarks, The list  of work on hand and the fact that the activities  connected with the United Nations had been listed
1n a special section were evidence of the close  co-operation between the two organizations. He  begged the representative of the United Nations for  as long a notice as possible of any new studies  wanted, as they required considerable staff time,
(26) The CHAIRMAN then asked the Commission to  vote on the amendment proposed by the Italian  delegation with regard to the estimates given in  paragraph 100a,    - 330 -   PROGRAMME AND
(27) Mr. CALO (Italy) said that the Italian delega-  tion was prepared to lower the figures which it had  originally mentioned in its dr ft amendment  {document 8C/DR/28), since its main desire was  to emphasize the question of principle, Its  proposal accordingly was that the appropriations  set out in paragraph 100a be increased from  $18, 080 to $20, 000 and from $9, 080 to $10, 000,
(28) The Italian proposal was seconded by the  delegates of France, Turkey and Spain,
(29) It was then put to the vote and rejected by
21 votes to 7, with 16 abstentions,
(30) The CHAIRMAN then called on the Commission  to take a decision on the amendment proposed by  the Argentine delegation, to increase the amounts  provided in paragraph 81 by $5, 000 for each year,  The amounts as they stood were $12, 330 for 1955  and $12, 331 for 1956.
(31) As the proposal was not seconded, it was  considered to be rejected.
(32) A vote was taken on resolution 1, 121, which  was unanimously adopted.
(33) A vote was then taken on resolution 1, 122,  which was also adopted, with no dissentient vote  but one abstention.  Project 1.21: Development and improvement of  school systems and school teaching (paragraphs
112 et seq.)
(34) The CHAIRMAN called upon the Commission  to comment on the resolutions and work plans  relative to this project.
(35) Mr. NIELSEN (Denmark) said that the time  had come to discuss draft resolution 40 submitted  by the Uruguayan delegation, inviting Member  States to take the necessary measures to ensure  that education was provided, free of charge, at  all levels, He appreciated the idealism behind  the proposal. The delegate of Uruguay had  protested that morning against the Executive  Board's failure to recommend it, and it had been  supported by the delegate of Poland.
(36) Most countries, Mr. Nielsen thought, were  aware of the difficulties inherent in a proposal of  that kind, and tried to approach their common goal  step by step, If any countries did not agree with  the spirit of the resolution, it would hardly carry  the weight required to change their attitude.
(37) If a proposal had no budgetary implication,  that did not mean it was "harmless" and could  therefore be adopted, If it had no effect, it would  be detrimental to the impact of Unesco on the  world, That remark had a bearing on a good  many resolutions which had been put before the  Conference by Member States.
(38) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) considered that the  general remarks set forth in paragraphs 115-127  called for some comment. Referring to paragraph    BUDGET COMMISSION IV-11
117, he remarked that racial or religious discrimi-  nation, which in the past had prevented certain  children from attending schools which were open  to others, tended to disappear today. The  inequalities found in educational opportunities  were thus due, in the main, to economic or social  factors. Mgr Maroun was most anxious that that  fact should be stressed in paragraph 117.
(39) He also considered that, in a programme of  action such as that before the Commission, there  was no need constantly to reiterate principles  already formulated repeatedly, What was needed  was exact details about the means by which those  principles were to be applied.
(40) Among the steps taken by Unesco for the  development of education, Mgr Maroun was whole-  heartedly in favour of all those on an international  and regional scale, He considered that at the  national level, however, Unesco had not so far  been moving in the right direction, nor had it  succeeded in giving its Member States the help  they needed to improve their own education systems.  He would therefore have a number of criticisms to  make regarding the section on “Action on particular  problems (paragraphs 153-175)". Many of the  activities mentiored in that section lay outside  Unesco's competence, since the Organization  should act neither as a kind of international Ministry  of Education, nor as an international institute of  education, but should concentrate primarily on  giving its Member States the help they needed to  further the development of educational facilities  on their own territory.
(41) Mrs, BOLLO (Uruguay) said that, in every  Commission, the universal character of Unesco  had been mentioned as being its most noteworthy  and characteristic feature. Free and compulsory  education in all countries and at all levels was  one of the things that Unesco's universal  activities were intended to achieve, Such education  was available in srme countries and not in others;  but steps should be taken to establish it everywhere,
(42) The represcatative of Denmark had said that  he would not oppose the Uruguayan proposal  (document 8C/DR/40), but that the right to education  was already set forth in the Universal Declaration  of Human Rights, The representative of Lebanon  had said that nobody would dare to challenge that  right, but that, once such a declaration was down  on paper, it was best to wait until events brought  it into effect, As the Advisory Committee on  Programme and Budget had not thought fit to  recommend the Uruguayan proposal for approval,  it was necessary to lay particular stress on it,
(43) Uruguay wanted all education to be free.  Such a system had been introduced in Uruguay  itself with beneficial results and the Uruguayans  wished all to enjoy the same facilities, The best  way of bringing that about was a strong recom-  mendation for immediate action. The right to  culture as prcclaimed in the Declaration of  Human Rights could be effective only if secondary  and higher, as well as primary education, were  free and compulsory.
(44) Uruguay proposed that Unesco set aside a  sum sufficient for carrying out an experiment in  - 331 -
1vV-11 PROGRAMME AND  the provision of such education in a country where  it did not exist, so that action should not be confined  to an abstract statement of aims, Free and com-  pulsory education should be established in all the
72 Member States of Unescer. If education were  not free, the cultural lev. of the peoples could  never be raised, and U..esco's aims in that respect  could never be achieved.
(45) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) reminded the  Chairman of the need for the meeting to be informed  of the decisions taken by the Advisory Committee  on all the questions discussed by the Programme  Commission,
(46) The CHAIRMAN announced that draft  resolution No, 40 had not been recommended by  the Advisory Committee,
(47) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) said this  nad been a challenging resolution, but the  Executive Board had been obliged to face the  issue realistically, Many States could not afford  to provide free education at all levels. It had  been found impossible to recommend the project  for a high priority.
(48) Mr. CASSANI (Argentina) said that his  delegation had noticed that in dealing with the  development and improvement of school systems  and school teaching (project 1.21), particular  importance was attributed to primary education,  some attention was devoted to seconaary education,  while higher education was completely overlooked.  His delegation wished that shortcoming to be  remedied and consideration to be given to the  problems of teaching at all levels of education.
(49) The Argentine delegation considered that  free education was an ideal which should be  confidently and energetically pursued. Argentina  had had considerable experience, for it had  introduced free education at all levels, for all  Argentine or foreign students and pupils, who  attended Argentine educational establishments  in their thousands. There were many ways of  achieving that ideal; one of them was through  proper guidance, and Unesco was always in a  position to give such guidance, :
(50) Mr, FORSYTH (New Zealand) suggested that  at future conferences there should not be such a  flood of last-minute resolutions, Small delega-  tions had no opportunity for studying them  properly, and were sometimes obliged to vote  against resolutions for that reason alone,
(51) Referring to resolution 1.211, Mr. FAUBLAS  (Haiti) pointed out that education could not be  made compulsory until it could be provided free.  He therefore thought it would be well to include  in the programme a more firmly worded resolution,  calling on Member States to earmark part of their  budget each year for the expenditure entailed in  providing free education for their nationals.
(52) Mr. WIDDOWSON (Union of South Africa)  said that the two resolutions with which the    BUDGET COMMISSION  meeting was now concerned were a case of the  overlapping of activities he had referred to in  general terms at an earlier meeting. The  Council for Technical Co-operation in Africa  South of the Sahara had already convened a  conference on primary education, With regard  to the Unesco Conference proposed in paragraph
150, had the necessary preliminary studies laid  down by the Economic and Social Council been  made, and more important, had full account been  taken of the work already carried out in that field  by other organizations?
(53) Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia) protested against  the >bjection raised by the delegate of the Union  of South Africa. He had not objected to the many  conferences continually held by Unesco in other  parts of the world, but when one was proposed for  his own region, which was the most backward  economically, socially and educationally, he  opposed it. The delegate of Liberia suggested  that more money should be allocated to the proposal  and more conferences held in Africa south of the  Sah“ra.
(54) Mr. WIDDOWSON (Union of South Africa)  agreed with the delegate of Liberia on the need  of educational activities in Africa, but insisted  that, when they were already being tackled on a  wide basis, there was no case for duplication on  the part of Unesco.
(55) Mr. KABIR (India) agreed that duplication  should be avoided in general, but thought that the  case of Africa was exceptional. The more  conferences held there, the better. There was  an urgent need to train political leaders and  arouse a social conscience.  {56) Mr. WIDDOWSON (Union of South Africa)  was in entire sympathy with the delegate of Liberia  in his concern for educational progress in South  Africa.
(57) Replying to the comments of the delegate of  the Umon of South Africa, the CHAIRMAN stated  that, in his opinion, the best course would be to  leave the Executive Board and the Secretariat to  decide to what extent Unesco should take account  of what had already been done by regional and  local organizations for educational development  in Africa.
(58) Mr. CHEVALIER (Secretary of the Com-  mission) then read out the recommendations of the  Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget  regarding paragraphs 137, 143, 147 and 163  (document 8C/BUD/1, pages 4 and 5).
(59) Mr. AL-KOUSSI (Egypt) wished to make an  important point, but without budgetary implica-  tions, concerning resolution 1, 211 on extending  free and compulsory schooling. Some countries  were exposed to education in a way that did not  fit in with their own culture, which had the effect  of denationalizing them and leaving them in a  state of unrest. The delegate of Egypt would like  - 332 -   PROGRANME AND  the addition, at the end of the resolution, of the  following sentence: "The development of priraary  education in the non-self-governing territories  should take full consideration of its indigenous  pattern of culture", Egypt was a member of the  United Nations Committee on Infor mation from  non-self-governing territories, and was aware of  the problems that arose when that aspect of the  question was ignored,
(30) Mr. ZAMORANO HERNANDEZ (Chile) was  surprised that, since the beginning of the General  Conference, statements such as that just made  by the representative of New Zealand had been  heard. The condemnatory tone adopted should  have been modified. Chile had put forward one  or two amendments and had a right to the consi-  deration always accorded to States which had  recently been admitted to the Organization,
(61) He was, in principle, in favour of the  Uruguayan proposal and wished to see free and  compulsory education extended.
(62) Mr. KOVAL (Ukrainian Soviet Socialist  Republic) stressed the importance of resolutions
1,211 and 1.212, He reminded the meeting that  there ‘vere 200 million children of school age in  the world who had no means of education. One  of Unesco's first duties should be to remedy the  existing situation and to do away with illiteracy  among children and adults alike, It should, in the  opinion of the Ukrainian delegation, direct its  efforts, in the main, to improving education in  the underdeveloped countries. It should seek to  remove all forms of discrimination, based on  race, religion, language or social standing,  which affected educational opportunities. Mr, Koval  stressed the need for Unesco to give attention,  particularly in the underdeveloped countries, to  the training of well-qualified *~achers, who should  be recruited locally to staff primary and secondary  schools. Unesco should also b ar in mind the  importance of building new schools and providing  better equipment for existing schools.
(63) Mr. Koval hoped that his comments would  be taken into consideration in working out Unesco's  programme for 1955-56,
(64) Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) was happy to  agree with the delegate of Egypt on his proposed  amendment to resolution 1,211. It was the policy  of the United Kingdom Government to base  education in its non-self-governing territories  as far as possible on their indigenous culture,  But the suggestion of the Egyptian delegate should  be extended to all countries, for all of them had  cultures which were only to a very small extent  indigenous, and all of them faced the same double  need: to develop citizens of their own countries  who should at the same time be citizens of the  world,
(65) Mr. KABIR (India) seconded the delegate  of Egypt. All he had wanted to say had  been said for him by the delegate of the  United Kingdom.    BUDGET COMMISSION IV-11  (A) International Conference on Public Education  (paragraphs 137-142)
(66) Mr. ESTELRICH (Spain) referred to the  recommendation of the Advisory Committee on  Programme and Budget concerning the International  Conférence on Public Education, which had been  read out by the Secretariat, In it the Committee  hoped "that meetings of this Conference.... will  be increasingly devoted to the discussion of  specific problems of concern to educators rather  than to the presentation of the reports submitted  by Member States”,
(67) He said that, whenever he had taken part in  the proceedings of the International Conference on  Public Education, he had seen how efficiently,  soundly and competently its work had been done,  The recommendation was unne-essary because  the Conference was already dealing with specific  problems of great interest. At its 1952 meeting,  it had studied the natural sciences and educational  opportunities for women. At its 1953 meeting, it  had dealt with the training of primary teachers,  while in 1954 it had given its attention to the  training of secondary school teachers; for 1955-56,  it was preparing to discuss questions of outstanding  interest, such as the financing of public education  and school inspection.
(68) The International Bureau of Education  carried out studies on educational developments,  and in the establishment and building of educational  institutions; in doing so, it had a clear picture  of education in all countries, which thus made it  possible to pool useful experience. Furthermore,  it issued very full publications to make known the  results of the work it was carrying out,
(59) The Commission should therefore not endorse  the Advisory Committee's recommendation but,  on the contrary, should make explicit mention of  the zeal and ability with which the Internationa!  Conference on Public Education was accomrlishing  its work.  (B) International Educational Development Fund  (paragraphs 143-146)
(70) Mr. BROWNELL (United States cf America)  gave the opinion of his delegation on that section.  He supported the idea of pre-school education,  but not the Fund, about which his ideas were in  line with those of the Advisory Committee,
(71) All countries were agreed that it was  important to advance education as rapidly as  possible, but it was hard to find the right balance  between providing what was wanted and creating  a state of dependence or of despair because too  much was being done too soon. No Member State  had an adequate answer to that problem 1n his own  country, and Unesco's efforts were no more than  a drop in the bucket, A thorough study of each  other's mistakes ought to be made before any such  fund was started. In the United States of America  a conference of citizens and educators was to be  called before November 1955 to discuss those  problems. Similarly, he felt, all the knowledge  of Member States could be pooled before the  proposal was taken any further,  - 333 -   IV-11 PROGRAMME AND
(72) The CHAIRMAN, after requesting speakers  to keep closely to the document before them, and  not to present their obser ations too haphazardly,  called on the Swedish delegate.
(73) Mr. DUERING (Sweden) suggested that it  would be wiser for Unescn to postpone its efforts  to establish a separate fund for another two years,  in view of the fact that the United Nations had  recently taken some steps towards a similar  one - SUNFED - and that the United States of  America had contributed $35, 000, 000 for the  purpose. The proposed Unesco fund was not  supplied with sufficient resources to enable it  to begin functioning. If it were put off until the  results of the work of SUNFED could be evaluated,  there would be time also to investigate the  possibility of giving the financial assistance  required in some other way, such as by an  expansion of technical assistance, Mr, Duering  asked for the deletion of Section B.
(74) Mr. STEINIG (United Nations) agreed that  it would be advisable to await the results of the  United Nations consultations and negotiations before  creating a special fund which might not prove  necessary. On 16 November the Second Committee  of the General Assembly, now in session in New  York, adopted unanimously a resolution on the  special United Nations fund for economic develop-  ment, which brought the realization of SUNFED  one step nearer. It had resolved to urge all  governments to review their positions in extending  material support (0 that fund, "taking into consider-  ation changes in ‘he international situation and  other relevant factors, both national and inter -  national", It further decided to request Mr. Raymond  Scheyven, a distinguished Belgian stateman and  former President of the Economic and Social  Council of the United Nations to continue his  exploratory consultations with governments with  a view to obtaining their views on the support  they would bè prepared to extend to such a fund;  and to prepare, in co-operation with the Secretary-  General and an ad hoc group of experts and after  having consulted the Technical Assistance Board  and the Specialized Agencies, a further report  containing a full and precise picture of the forms,  functions and responsibilities which such a fund  might have, and the methods by which its  operations might be integrated with the develon-  ment plans of the countries receiving assistance  from it, Dates had been fixed for the final  presentation of the report to the Economic and  Social Council and the General Assembly in 1955  and hope was expressed that the fund would be  established as soon as practicable,
(75) The CHAIRMAN declared the discussion  on paragraphs 113 to 146 closed, and  called on the French delegate to put forward  comments he wished to make on Section C,  dealing with regional conferences on free  and compulsory education,     BUDGET COMMISSION  (C) Regional Conference on Free and Compulsory  Education (paragraphs 147-152)
(76) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) feared that, by  engaging in work in Africa in which local  organizations had apparently already achieved  a fair measure of success, Unesco could only  harm its own prestige. He would therefore favour  dropping the regional conference to be held in  Africa in 1958, for which provision was made  in paragraph 150.
(77) Mr. ESTELRICH (Spain) had wished to speak  on paragraph 145, but, when the CHAIR MAN  pointed out that to do so would mean reopening  discussion on a section that the Commission had  completed, he spoke on paragraph 148, which  dealt with the calling of a regional conference on  free and compulsory education,
(78) Mr. Estelrich asked whether sufficient data  were available about education in Latin America,  whether such data were accurate, and whether  a study had been made of the complex factors  affecting the problem. Moreover it seemed  unlikely that anything would be gained by bringing  together a large number of people to study the  obstacles standing in the way of extending free  education, It would be better to hold a small  meeting of experts to achieve the desired results,
(79) Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia), on the question  of abandoning the proposed regional conference  in Africa (paragraph 150), said that that would he  a repudiation by Unesco of its own principles.  For the first time, Member States had protested  against the holding of a conference in a region  which statistics showed was at the foot of the  ladder in education matters, How was it possible  to claim that the Commission for Technical  Co-operation in Africa south of the Sahara was  doing all the educational work needed in that  region?
(80) Mr. WARD (United Kingdom) was also a  member of the Council for Technical Co-operation  in Africa south of the Sahara, but did not think  it desirable or practicable to exclude the operation  of international organizations from that part of the  world, He hoped it could be taken for granted that  whatever Unesco did would be done after  consultation with the governments concerned.  He did not want any duplication but no one could  pretend that Africa south of the Sahara possessed  all the education and wisdom on rratters of  education it needed. Mr. Ward was confident  that Unesco would be able to co-operate with  the Cuuncil for Technical Co-operation, and could  not support the deletion of paragraph 150.
(81) Mr, ERZUAH (Gold Coast) supported the  delegates of Liberia and the United Kingdom.  The danger in Africa was always of doing too  little.
(82) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of  Education) commented first on Section C, He  referred to a similar problem in Latin America.  - 334 -   PROGRAMME AND  On hearing that the Organization of American States  proposed to convene a Conference of Ministers of  Education, which might serve the same purposes  as the Conference on Free and Compulsory  Education planned by Unesco for 1956, the  Director-General had suggested that the project  should be maintained on the understanding that,  if the two conferences had the same purpose,  they would co-operate rather than separate,  Mr, Elvin suggested that, with the approval of  the Executive Board, the same procedure could  be followed over the African conference,
(83) Reverting to Section B, he said that the  Commission and the Conference would have to  decide, in view of the comments of the United  Nations representative, which the Advisory  Committee had waited for, whether it would now  withdraw the proposal, on the understanding that,  if SUNFED failed to come into existence, the  Director-General could study a separate Education  Fund, and report, before action was taken, to the  next Conference.
(84) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) then withdrew his  proposal concerning the deletion of paragraph 150.
(85) Mr. KABIR (India), on the proposal in  Section B, wondered if, in view of the modest  sum involved ($2, 000 in the first year and $1, 000  in the second), the project might not be retained,  with the purpose of creating a public opinion in  its favour, which might contribute towards the  establishment of SUNFED,
(86) The CHAIRMAN then asked the Commission  to vote on Section B (International Educational  Development Fund).
(87) The Commission would vote on the proposal  to recommend that the General Conference postpone  consideration of the project until its ninth session,
(88) The proposal was adopted by 34 votes to 6,  with 6 abstentions,
(89) Section C (Regional Conference on Free and  Compulsory Education) was approved.  (D) Education and Child Development (paragraphs
(90) The CHAIRMAN then called on the delegate  of Italy.
(91) Mr. CALO (Italy), referring to paragraph
158, commented on the draft amendment set forth  in document 8C/DR/79, He pointed out how  useful it would be to arrange for studies, by the  meetings of experts mentioned in the paragraph  in question, of methods of securing closer  co-operation between teachers and social  workers. He thought, tou, that still more  emphasis should be placed on the study of the  examination systems in force in the various  types of schools,
(92) Lastly, Mr, Calo suggested that some of  the subjects for study put forward in the  original paragraph 158 were too vague,    BUDGET CHOMMISSION IV-11  and unlikely to lead to good results in practice,
(93) Mr. AL-KOUSSI (Egypt) disagreed with the  Italian delegate's suggestion of deleting certain  points in paragraph 158, Far from being over-  emphasized, he thought the parts objected to had  been under-erphasized, Indeed, he considered  that not only the training of educational  psychologists, parent education, etc., but the  hygiene of marital life and its influence on  children and the rising generation should be  taken into serious consideration,
(94) Mr. FRANCOIS (France), without under -  estimating the usofuiness of the activities proposed  in paragraph 158, felt that they could produce  worthwhile results oniy if considerably larger  funds were available for ~arrying them out, He  also considered that, since Unesco had to operate  on a very limited budget, 1t would do better to  concentrate on work which possibly had a closer  bearing on its true mission, He accordingly  proposed the deletion of the appropriations for  the purposes referred to in paragraph 158,
(95) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of  Education) was astonished at the suggestion that  certain subjects in paragraph 158 which had been  essential elements in educational progress for  the last fifty years, were not considered to be  the concern of Unesco. Unesco had for the first  time called in experts who had studied the ways  of other countries, A lot could be done there  at little cost.
(96) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) pointed out once  again that, in tackling the question of educational  development, Unesco should seek mainly to solve  the administrative problems facing the various  Member States, rather than to deal with technical  questions or those of educational theory, He did  not therefore greatly favour the activities mentioned  in paragraph 158, and was prepared to second  the French delegate's proposal that they be deleted.
(97) The CHAIRMAN then asked the Commission to  vote on the French delegate's proposal that the  suggested appropriations for the activities mentioned  in paragraph 158 be deleted.
(98) The proposal was rejected by 30 votes to 3,  with 10 abstentions,
(99) Replying to a question from the CHAIR MAN,  Mr. CALO (Italy) stated thet he did not wish for  a vote on the proposal contained in document
8BC/DR/79. All he hoped was that, when the  time came, the suggestions made in that  document would be taken into account.
(100) The Commission took note of Mr. Calo's  desire,  Draft resolution 8C/DR/37: Promotion of Health  Education
(101) The CHAIR MAN asked if the delegation of  - 335 -
1v-11 PROGRAMME  Uruguay stood by its proposal; if so, a vote would  be taken,
(102) Mr, CARBAJAL VICTORICA (Uruguay) said  that the proposal was on very broad lines an i that  it would be inappropriate to withdraw it, as it  fitted in with proposals made by other delegations.
(103) Replying to Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon), Mr,  ELVIN (Director, Department of Education) stated  that the Advisory Committee on Programme and  Budget had recommended adoption of the proposal,  AND     - 336 -  BUDGET COMMISSION
(104) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) drew attention to the  recommendation by the Advisory Committee that  the project which had no budgetary implications  should be adopted.
(105) The proposal contained in document 8C/DR/37  was put to the vote and adopted by 34 in favour,  hone against and 8 abstentions,  The meeting rose at 6.45 p. m,