mI-4 GENERAL COMMITTEE  FOURTH MEETING
19 November 1954 at 9 a. m.  Chairman: Mr. BADINI CONFALONIERI (Italy)  PROGRESS REPORTS BY THE CNAIRMEN OF COMMASIONS
(1) Mr. BEEBY said that the Administrative Com-  mission hoped that day to finish its preliminary  consideration of amendments to Article V of the  Constitution (composition of the Executive Board).  The matter would then be referred to the Legal  Committee, and he hoped that the Administrative  Commission would be able to reach a decision and  to submit a resolution by the evening of the 20th.
(2) He hoped that his Commission would be able to  present a report on the scale of contributions and  methods of financing the budget by the evening of the
20th, provided there was a meeting in the afternoon.
(3) Mr. BOURGEOIS said that the Programme and  Budget Commission had embarked the previous day  on tha general discussion of the programme, which  would probably still take up part of the morning.  As it was impossible to discuss the Proposed  Programme and Budget for 1955-56 Tn detail with  no indication given of the provisional budget ceiling,  the Commission would proceed tc consider the report  of the Executive Board on the future programme of  the Organization (document 8C/PRG/13). It would  still have time enough on Monday, 22 November, to  deal with technical assistance and to sestle general  questions before embarking on the substance of the  programme, which the Commission was intending to  discuss on the basis of the proposals submitted by  the United States delegation.  SUGGESTION OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA ON THE  PROCEDURE FOR STUDYING THE PROPOSED PROGRAMME  AND BUDGET FOR 1855-56 (document 8C/BUR/2)
(4) Mr. Bourgeois proposed the following procedure,  suggested by conversations he had held with various  delegates after the Commission's meeting. On the  first proposal - to the effect that delegations should  notify the Secretariat by Monday morning of the items  in the programme which they wanted discussed - he  suggested accepting that time-limit for Chapters 1,
2 and 3, and accepting proposals concerning Chap-  ters 4 and 5 up to the evening of Thursday, 25  November. He thought all delegations would agree  to that proposal. It had further been agreed to drop  the proposal for the establishment of working group  of specialists, Mr. Bourgeois added that it would  be a good thing if delegations arranged for their  specialists to get into touch, between meetings, with  the directors of Unesco's various departments, who  would certainly be very glad to see them.
(5) Mr. KOTSCHNIG said that his delegation would  - 244 -     not insist on its second proposal and could agree to  the plan proposed by the previous speaker,
(6) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL assured the Com-  mittee that the Secretariat would be very ready to  co-operate with the experts mentioned and to work  out a schedule of meetings to fit in with the pro-  gramme of the Conference.
(7) Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS feared that by the time  ihe heads of delegations had informed the Secretariat  of the matters on which they wished to speak, every  item in the existing programme would have been  called in question, and the proposal would merely put  delegations to a lot of unnecessary work.
(8) Experience of previous Conferences had shown  how exceedingly difficult it was to work to a schedule,  Sometimes discussion of an apparently contentious  notion petered out with but a single speaker; at  others there were floods of eloquence. The orly way  effectively to shorten discussion was to limit the time  allowed to speakers - n solution which was unlikely  to be acceptable. There was one practical recom-  mendation that might be made, namely, that  delegations absent themselves from the Palacio  Legislativo as little as possible and that they regu-  larly ask the Secretariat whether matters of interest  to them sre likely to be raised at any particular  meeting.
(9) It was significant that the proposal under discus-  sion came !rom what was nuinerically the largest  delegation at the Conference, and that it was largely  supported by the smaller delegations, which, while  deeply conscious of their rights, found it difficult to  meet their responsibilities. A workable procedure  had already been evolved and he was in favour of  maintaining it.
(10) Mr. VERONESE, after paying tribute to the  intentions underlying the United States proposal,  made a general statement. The procedure so far  adopted was based on experience; it had evolved  gradually and been accepted in plenary session and  he would be reluctant to change it at that stage. He  then went on to comment on the first part of the  proposal before the Committee, the second having  already been withdrawn. He asked the United States  delegate whether the fact of certain delegations  having submitted as many as 70 new proposals did  not already provide the kind of information he  wanted. Together they constituted a list cf problems  which delegations wished to })...ve discusseu over and  above the proposed programme. He was somewhat  alarmed also by the third paragraph of ths proposal,  to the effect that only those projects should be   GENERAL COMMITTEE 1-4  discussed which, in the opinion of any Member State,  needed to be substantially modified. That idea would  exclude the minor adjustments that might be made to  projects by the Secretariat, in consultation with  specialists from delegations. That brought them to  the second part of the proposal, which had just been  withdrawn. I one tried to give a definition of "sub-  stantial modification", the Commission would be  liable to be drawn into fresh discussions on the actual  evaluation of projects. Mr. Veronese recommended  that the General Committee adopt the United States  proposal interpreted as meaning a consultation, but  without deciding in advance what would emerge from  the consultation.
(11) Mr. BERREDO CARNEIRO said that, although  the delegation of Brazil had, in the meeting, sup-  ported the proposal put forward by the United States  delegate, that did not mean it was deaf to the  arguments of other delegates.
(12) He thought some kind of compromise could be  reached to the effect that any proposal to amend a  project, either in substance or inform, should be  submitted by delegations in writing to the officers of  the Programme Commission. Those proposals  would be fully discussed by the Commission, whereas  programme projects for which no proposal for  amendment had been received, could be considered  as approved, and the Commission could go through  them quickly so as to give more time to points which  needed detailed discussion. That procedure would  have the merit of meeting both the United Kingdom  delegate's request for free discussion and the United  Stetes delegate's desire to avoid bouts of eloquence  on proposals which were accepted by Member States.  Mr. Carneiro had not attended the previous day's  discussions, but he gathered from what he had been  told that they had not made any specific, practical  contribution to the improvement of the programme.  Oa the other hand, he would like to see the Commis-  sion or the working parties dwell on points for which  substantial amendments had been proposed. He  asked the United States delegate to refrain from  making a formal proposal and to leave it to the  Chairman and other officers of the Commission to  bear the underlying intention in mind.
(13) Mr. HAGUIWARA said that the aim of the Pro-  gramme and Budget Commission's discussions was  to produce a better and more concentrated pro-  gramme. That aim could be achieved only by  abolishing certain appropriations and increasing  others. A procedure had been worked out for the  consideration of draft resolutions with budgetary  implications; 70 or so draft resolutions had been  considered by the Executive Board and the Advisory  Committee. It was the abolition of appropriations  which caused the greatest difficulties. He wondered  whether a delegation could propose abolishing certain  appropriations without knowing the total figure  of savings to be made. Mr. Haguiwara thought  it difficult to reach a firm conclusion at a  meeting of the General Committee, vrithout even  knowing the provisional budget ceiling. He  thought that it lay with the Commissions, with  full knowledge of ‘he facts, to form their  own conclusions.
(14) Mr. BOURGEOIS said that there was no ques-  tion of drawing up hard-and-fast rules for the  discussions. The main idea of the United States  proposal was to see that the Programme Commission  did not cover the same ground az the Advisory Com-  mittee and to make use of the latter's report. What  was wanted was not draft amendments to the proposed  programme but an indication of the points on which  delegations wished to speak, on the understanding  that they agreed with the Director-General's other  proposals and the Advisory Committee's findings. In  any case, the Commission bad to submit to the Con-  ference a draft programme on which a formal vote  would be taken.
(15) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES paid tribute to the in-  tentions behind the United States proposal. It had  indeed been the hope of the Advisory Committee that  the Programme and Budget Commission would not  have to cover the same ground.
(18) At the same time he was inclined to agree with  the delegates of the United Kingdom and Italy in  doubting the practical value of the proposal. Perhaps  the suggestion by the delegate of ! -azil, being more  flexible, had more to commend it. Delegations might  he asked to submit to the General Committee, in  writing, any amendments they micht wish to propose  to the programme and budget documents and to the  recommendations of the Administrative Commission.  In that way there wauld be a clear indication of the  points likely to be taken up and the work of the Chair-  man of the Programme and Budget Commission would  be facilitated.
(17) Mr. KOTSCHNIG felt that agreement was very  close. He agreed with the Chairman of the Pro-  gramme and Budget Commission that it would be most  useful to know beforehand what points were likely to  lead to discussion, Delegations might simply be  asked to let the Secretariat know what were the points  on which they had definite ideas, so that the Secre-  tariat might then be able to issue a general document  listing those points.
(18) Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS (United Kingdom) said  that the delegate of Japan had raised an important  point. If the Programme and Budget Commission  could start work as soon as ever a decision had been  taken on the budget ceiling, there would be some  point in delegations listing the questions they were  anxious to raise.
(18) Mr. DERREDO CARNEIRO thought it possible to  work outa system which would enable the Chairman to  tell his Commission how it could best avoid proposals  that would distract attention.
(20) Mr. VERONESE thought that to judge by the vote  taken in the Commission the day before it had been  left to the General Committee to draw up a work plan.  He also thought that agreement was practically  reached on the procedure of consultation advocated  by the United States delegate and the submission of  findings to the officers of the Programme Commission,  who would base their final proposals for the conduct  of work on those findings.
(21) The delegate of Spain supported thet proposal.  - 245 -   m-4 GENERAL
(22) Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS was ready to support  the suggestions made by the delegate of Italy, pro-  vided the General Committee approached the problem  in a flexible manner.
(23) Mr. STOLETOV said that, as he understood it,  two points had been made clear about the procedure  for discussion of the report by the Administrative  Commission. Firstly, if any delegation wanted a  draft proposal submitted, it could raise the matter in  the Commission without prior notification. Secondly,  any delegation should be free to explain, without prior  notification, the reasons for its vote on any draft  resolution submitted. He was, infact, in favour of  keeping the normal procedure for discussion of the  Commission's report.
(24) Mr. KOTSCHNIS said that the delegate of Italy  had spoken of consultation of delegations. If that  meant that delegations would be asked to inform the  Secretariat of any points of esrecial interest to them,  in order that the Secretariat migbt prepare a general  paper on the question, he could agree.
(25) Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS considered that dele-  gations should merely be asked to indicate what points  were of particular interest to them, and that they  should not be required to outline their exact position  on those points.
(26) Mr. KABIR was now less sure of the advantages  of the United States proposal. At the same time, if  the Committee adopted the United Kingdom suggestion  that delegations should merely be invited to ind!zate  points of interest to them, things would be left much  as they were. The Commission was losing a good  deal of time and the sooner it passed to a discussion  of the programme, the better.
(27) Mr. BEEBY said tha! a similar discussion had  taken place at the Mexico City Conference, and the  only conclusion reached had been that the Chairman  of the Commission had to be trusted to direct the de-  bates as he thought fit. He would suggest that, in the  Commission, delegations be informed that they could  expedite matters by indicating points of interest to  them, perhaps with a statement of their position.  Thenthe Commission would have totrust the Chairman.
(28) Mr. KOTSCHNIG could agree with that sugges-  tion, provided it were made clear to delegations that  they should, rather than could, expedite matters by  so doing.
(20) Mr. BEEBY agreed.
(30) Mr. BOURGEOIS explained that in his view that  procedure should serve for the Commission's guid-  ance but should nbt be restrictive. Each delegation  should still be entitled to speak on any item in the  programme. The idea of the procedure proposed  was solely to avoid repetition and duplication of the  Advisory Committee's work.
(31) The CHAIRMAN asked if members agrerd to  delegations being asked to notify the Chairman of the  Programme Commission, by a date to be indicated    COMMITTEE  by the latter, on what points they wished to speak.  The request would be made merely in order to obtain  information.
(33) Sir Ben BOWEN THOMAS said his agreement was  subject to the schedule indicated by the Chairman of the  Programme and Budget Commissionbeing observed.
(34) Mr. STOLETOV asked whether the two assump-  tionshe had made inhis earlier statement were correct.
(35) The CHAIRMAN confirmed that they were.  RESOLUTION ON THE CREATION OF AN INTERNATIONAL  CULTURAL FUND (document 8C/DR/69)
(36) It was agreed that this matter should be the first  item for discussion at the meeting to be held on  Monday, 22 November,  OTHER BUSINESS — PROBLEM IN CONNEXION WITH THE WORK OF  TEE EXECUTIVE BOARD
(37) Mr. BEEBY said that the Advisory Committee  had referred the problem of reducing the amount of  work to be done by the Executive Board and the length  of its s2ssions, tothe Administrative Commission.  Could the Administrative Commission refer that problem  to the Executive Board through the General Committee?
(38) Sir Ronald ADAM thought it would be better to  wait until the new Board had been elected.
(39) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that the question  had been considered in the Secretariat. No such  reform was possible without amendments tc the Con-  stitution and the Regulations. Al that could be done  now was that the Conference might call on the  Director-General and the Board to study the matter  with a view to submitting proposals at the next session  of the Conference.
(40) Mr. BEEBY said he would report back to his  Commission to that effect.
(41) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES said that that would  meet the wishes of the Advisory Committee.
(42) Mr. HAGUIWARA suggested that the General  Committee place on its agenda for the meeting on 22  or 23 November the question of budget levels, which  was to be discussed by the Administrative Commis-  sion and on which it would be most valuable to have a  preliminary discussion in a smail committee.  {43) The CHAIRMAN explained that there could only  be an informal discussion, on matters of procedure  and not of substance. With that reservation, he was  prepared to place the item on the agenda of the  General Committee's next meeting, which was to be  held at 9 a. m. on Monday, 22 November 1954.  The meeting rose at 10. 30 a. m.  - 246 -   GENERAL COMMITTEE 1-5  FIFTH MEETING
22 November 1954 ai 7 a. m.  Chairmen: Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan)  lates: Mr. ZAVALA MUNIZ (Uruguay)
(1) Opening the meeting, Mr. HAGUIWARA an-  nounced the death, at Punta del Este, on 20  November 1954, of Mr. de Thibault, Governor-  General of the Belgian Congo; the announceraent so  made would be repeated in all Commissions and in  plenary meeting in the course of the afternoon.  PROGRESS OF THE WORK OF THE SESSION: REPORTS BY THE  CEARMEN OF COMMISSIONS AND COMMITTEES
(2) Mr. MONTAGNIER said that, after hearing the  progress reports of chairmen of commissions and  committees, hc would be able to indicate the work  arrangements for two or three days ahead.
(3) Mr. BEEBY announced that the Administrative  Comin ‘ssica had practically completed its work on  amendments to Article V of the Constitution and wouid  be ready to report thereon to the plenary meeting in  the afternoon. That-morning, the Commission would  be taking financial questions, but could not expect to  finish them. He hoped it would be possible for the  Administrative Commission to meet in the afternoon  after the plenary meeting.
(4) On Saturday, twenty-three Member States had  unfortunately been absent from the meeting of the  Administrative Commission, so that many of its deci-  sions, carried by a narrow margin, might well be  reversed in the plenary meeting.
(5) In conclusion, Mr. Beeby hoped that it would be  possible for the Administrative Commission to meet  the following morning.
(6) Mr. BOURGEOIS reported that the Programme  and Budget Commission concluded {ts general dis-  cussion of the programme for 1955-56 by Friday  evening, 19 November 1854. At its meeting on  Saturday morning, the Commission decided not to  discuss the propcsals regarding the division of  resources between permanent and special activities  until it had gone through the proposed programme  and budget in detail and received the Advisory Com-  mittee's report on the point. That day the Committee  proposed to take the technical assistance questions  and the following day, when the report of the Admini-  strative Commission would be before them, the  question of the provisional budget ceiling for 1955-56.
(7) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES recalled that most of the  Questions relating to the Executive Board's report on  the remodelling of Unesco's future programme had  been referred to the Advisory Committee. The Com-  mittee intended to study those questions at four    meetings starting on Wednesday afterzoon, but he  feared that its work would be greatly retarded by the  fact that simultaneous interpretation would n-t be  available. In view of the heavy tasks devolving upon  the Committee, he asked the General Committee if  one of the three following suiutions could be envisaged:
(1) the Advisory Commitee might hold more than four  meetings; (2) it might be possible to have simul-  taneous interpretation after all; (3) if only consecutive  interpretation were available, it might be possible to  use only English and French as working languages.  If none of those solutions were possible, he feared  that the Committee would have to hold night meetings,  which it was naturally reluctant to do.
(8) Mr. MONTAGNIER pointed out that in the plan for  the organization of its proceedings approved by the  Conference it was stipulated that only two meetings  with simultaneous interpret-tion and two with conse-  cutive interpretation could be held at one and the same  time; thence the Advisory Committee could be pro-  vided with simultaneous interpretation only when there  were no meetings of the Administrative Commission,  He emphasized the great practical difficulty of pro-  viding simultaneous interpr-tation at three meetings  staged concurrently,
(9) Mr. GARDNER DAVIES reminded the Committee  that he had not received an answer to his question  concerning the possibility of restricting the working  languages in the Advisory Committee to English and  French.
(10) Mr. BERNAL JIMENEZ thought that interpreta-  tion into Spanish should not be dispensed with in the  Advisory Committee on Programme and Budgét. The  use of Spanish caused very little loss of time and  facilitated the work of Spanish-speaking delegates.
(11) Speaking as Chairman of the Credentials Com-  mittee, he had to report to the General Committee of  the Conference that a number of States had now lodged  their respective representatives! credentials in due  form and a further report would be prepared for the  afternoon's plenary meeting. Under the powers dele-  gated by the Committee to its Chairman, he himself  would be able to draft the report in question in the  course of the forenoon without having to call the  Credentials Committee together.
(12; Speaking for one of the smaller delegations, Mr.  SHARIF expressed regret that meetings of the Plenary  Conference, the Programme and Budget Commission  and the Working Party on Decentralization should all  be scheduled for that afternoon. He had urderstood  it to be a rule that, when the Plenary Con/erencs was  - 247 -