IV-4 PROGRAMME AND  from the normal budget at the disposal of the two  existing fundamental education centres, The  Secretariat did not think Unesco should start  centres of that type elsewhere, but was ready to  support national efforts, It would also support a  centre serving two or three countries having the  same language, That was his recommendation,
(41) The Director-General assuced the delegate  of South Africa that it was the policy of the    BUDGET COMMISSION  Secretariat to consult the Committee for Technical  Co-operation south of the Sahara. He would be  pleased to follow the suggestion to channel certain  projects through that Committee, if it was for  comments only.  The meeting rose at 5,20 p.m.  FOURTH MEETING
19 November 1954 at 10 a.m.  Chairman: Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland)  ITEM 8.3 OF THE REVISED AGENDA: CONSIDERATION OF THE  REPORT OF THE ADVISORY COMMITTEE AND GENERAL  UISCUSSION OF TUE DRAFT PROGRAMME AND BUDGET FOR
(1) The CHAIRMAN stated that the General Com-  mittee had examined the proposal of the United  States delegation, submitted to it by the Commis-  sion the previous day. The General Committee  had requested delegates to let the Chairman of the  Commission have a list, for his guidance, of the  items which they wished to discuss; delegates  » ould tell how to assign priorities to those various  items, by referring to the classification system  adopted by the Advisory Committee on Programme  and Budget.
(2) The Chairman also called on the specialists  concerned to comraunicate with the appropriate  Directors of Departments in person, in order to  arrange informal talks with them, during which  they might consider ways of carrying out resolu-  tions in the draft programme,
(3) Mr. LAUGIER (France) wanted an assurance  that the questions which had not been given a high  priority would not be overlooked altogether, He  thought that it would be best to assign priorities  in order of time,
(4) The CHAIRMAN emphasized that the priorities  mentioned by delegates were intended for guidance  only, and should be in no way restrictive, All  that it was required to know was how much im-  portance delegates attached to a particular question,
(5) Replying to a question from Mr, PANNETON  (Canada), the CHAIRMAN explained that delegates  were in no way bound to observe the priorities  suggested by the Advisory Committee.
(6) After a statement by Mr. FAWZI (Egypt), the  CHAIRMAN remarked that he sew no reason to set    a time-limit for speeches during the morning's  discussion,
(7) Mr, SPILHAUS (United States of America)  expressed his delegation's great appreciation of  the work done by the Director-General, the  Secretariat, the Executive Board and the Advisory  Committee, particularly on the difficult problem  of achieving a balance between general and special  activities in the programme. While sharing the  general approval of the programme expressed by  the majority of members, he had the following  comments to make on behalf of his Government,
(8) The first point he wished to stress was the  desirability of seeing the remodelled programme  put into operation, With regard to the programme  of 1855-56, he believed that it could be strengthened  and that the increased services necessitated by the  addition of Member States could be provided with  little or no increase in the tctal assessment as  compared with 1853-54, and perhaps even some  reduction, He supported the opinion expressed  by certain delegates that broadened participation  in Unesco would strengthen support for the pro-  gramme. He was anxious to see a concentration  on fewer projects with better results. While most  Unesco projects were worth while, rome were  suporior to others, and it was essential to apply  Unesco's resources in staff, time and money, to  the most effective. It would be well to bear in  mind the five criteria for sele tion suggested by  the United Kingdom delegate, and the method of  evaluation referred to by the Director-General,
(8) He welcomed the oppor”.unities given by the  programme for cultural exchanges between  countries, and was especially pleased to see Asia  and Africa inciuded in such activities, The  United States of America was interested and  active in that field,
(10) He supported whcle-heartedily the delegates  of France and other countries who had referred  to the need for developing Unesco's work for   PROGRAMME AND  international understanding. Mutual understanding  and respect among the peoples of the world was the  fundamental purpose of Unesco and should be borne  in mind by all who were connected in any way with  the Organization's work.
(13) Mr, DE SALIS (Switzerland) had some general  cc nments to make on the Proposed Programme  and Budget for 1955-56, While he realized that the  total budget figure would not be fixed until a later  debate, he wished to mention that his delegation  considered that an increase would undoubtedly be  necessary.
(12) After hearing the statements of the previous  day by the delegates of France and the United  Kingdom, the Swiss delegation had come to the  conclusion that Unesco's general policy should be  outlined by the Commission. He drew attention to  the importance of recognizing the essential unity  of Unesco's work, however disguised it might be  by the number and diversity of the Organization's  projects, That unity of action, which should be  based on unity of thought, was all the more  necessary since Unesco's aim was to give every  country in the world a share in its work, irres-  pective of differences of language, culture, social  and technical development or even political sys-  tems, That diversity need cause no alarm since  the majority of Unesco's projects could only be  carried out on a world scele. The Swiss delega-  tion had thus always attached primary impcrtance  to the universal aspect of Unesco and continued to  believe that the Organization should welcome as  many as possible of the nations and peoples of the  world.
(13) It was in that spirit that the Swiss delegate  wished to support the remarks made the previous  day by the delegate of France. Whatever it was  finally decided to call it, the part of the programme  dealing with technical aid should be in keeping with  the notion of human fellowship. Switzerland, while  maintaining her independence in foreign policy,  attached great importance to that notion of human  fellowship and never ceased to be conscious of her  responsibilities as a member of the family of  nations. Switzerland placed the interests of man-  kind as a whole before those of any one part of the  world, or any one political or ideological group.  The French sociologist, André Siegfried, had  remarked that the Swiss were accustomed by their  own :onstitution to regard other nations as part-  ners, rather than potential enemies, Mr. de Salis  thought that that remark reflected a very profound  feeling on the part of the Swiss nation, whose one  endeavour was to be, as far as it could, the  partner of all those in Unesco who were engaged  in furthering the fellowship of mankind,
(14) Unesco could not be expected entirely to  forget international politics and their resultant  divisions. The Swiss delegation was nevertheless  convinced that all the Member States of Unesco  were united in their desire for peace. Under its  Constitution, they were pledged to collaborate in  the work of advancing the mutual knowledge and  understanding of peoples in the interests of peace.
(15) While agreeing entirely with the delegate of  the United Kingdom that it was wisest to steer a  BUDGET COMMISSION     - 283 -
1V-4  middle course between heaven and earth, Mr. de  Salis thought that, in the present troubled time, to  seek a way to better underatanding betwee nations  was erainently realictic and practical. He ther afore  believed that tae promotion of interna*!=zal under-  standing should be regarded as the clus to the laby-  rinth of Unesco's varied activities, The Swiss  delegation was in favour of setting up an office to  give tangible form to the desire for human fellowship  and peaceable understanding which should underlie  all Unesco's work. That office could be entrusted  with the task of ensuring that the true aims of  Unesco were never forgotten. As the Uruguayan  delegate had said the previous day, a serious  endeavour should be made in every country and at  every educational level to accustom children - the  scientists, writers and politicians of the future -  to the idea that other racea of men, other nations  and other cultures had the same right to respect  as their own. The point was to explain to them and  make them understand why other nations behaved  as they did, but without glossing over the difficulties  with which they had to contend. All that was needed  was intellectual honesty and tolerance.
(18) The Swiss delegation was also glad to note the  trend in the Commission towards better concentra-  tion and co-ordination of the Organization's work.
(17) It was esseutial to divide the programme into  various chapters according ro subject, provided  that those different aspects formed a whole.
(18) Criteria should be laid down for the examina-  tion of the many requests which Unesco had received  from all sides, The Swiss delegation hoped that the  Director-General and the Executive Board would  see that Unesco's subventions policy was as coherent  as possible, Such coherence was one aspect of the  underlying unity of the programme, and the Swiss  delegation shared on that point the views expressed  by the delegate of the United Kingdom.
(19) Whether dealing with fundamental education,  intellectual co-operation or technical aid, or with  any other branch of Unesco's activity, it was  essential always to bear in mind certain basic  ideas which served the real aims of Unesco, On  the basis of the foregoing general ideas, the Com-  mission would be able to take detailed decisions and  fix the final budget total,  {20) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) said that the structure of  the proposed programme and budget for 1955-56  would be more clearly understood when considered  in conjunction with the report on the remodelling  of the future programme of Unesco, He proposed  to comment on the two outstanding characteristics:  concentration and increased aid to Member States.  With regard to concentration, too much had been  said from the budgetary angle and it had been  claimed that concentration was necessary because  of Unesco's limited resources. Yet those who  advocated concentration were at the same time re-  commending higher levels for Unesco's budget.  The idea of concentration had emerged at a time  of growing expansion in the fields of activity and  in the activities within Unesco, due chiefly to a  desire to find the ideal projects which would fulfil  Unesco's aims. Yeers of experience, through  success and failure, had taught Unesco what to   IV-4 PROBRAMME AND  discard and how io concentrate, But there was a  danger that the conception would become an end in  itself. It was impossible to set numerical targets  in respect of major projects, The correct method  was to examine each one on its merits, in the light  of experience, and the resulting concentration  would be not for the purpose of economizing, but  in the interests of greater efficiency and achieve-  ment, It was essential to be as ready to embark on  new and promising activities as to discard unsatis-  factory projects: the process should be not a  diminishing and freezing of activities, but a con-  centration and stabilization,
(21) Turning to the second principle: increased  aid to Member States, Mr, Avidor favoured it as  being the most effective means of implementing  Unesco's aims, Here, again, it was a method  and not a goal, since Unesco was also concerned  in helping Member States to help themselves, In  giving aid, it should be Unesco's aim not only to  train local leaders in the fields of education, science  and culture, but to endeavour to build up national  efforts into pilot projects for other countries, Thus  the Organization's general activities and its aid to  Member States, though appearing as separate parts  in the programme and budget document, were in  fact an integrated whole, wherein general, regional  and national activities complemented one another,  He gave an example in the field of workers' educa-  tion,
(22) Mr. Avidor then referred to the important  subjects of decentralization and evaluation,
(23) The former subject would be coming up for  discussion on another occasion, and he wished only  to point out that the working party had drawna  clear distinction between decentralization of activi-  ties, which his delegation favoured, and decentrai-  ization of Unesco's administration, to which it  was strongly opposed,
(34) Evaluation required a careful apprcach and,  as the delegate of India had pointed out, there could  be no exact standard for measuring activities in  the realms of education, culture and even most of  the sciences. It was important to plan carefully,  and to check and riticize activities from time to  time, but evaluation must not be pursued at the  expense of the programme,
(25) The Director-General had asked for clear-cut  instructions; but, while the Conference could lay  down broad policies and give general instructions,  there would inevitably be issues for which there  were no hard-and-fast rules, and the Director-  General must be left with the difficult but challeng-  ing task of finding the solution to such problems  himself,
(26) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) first of all added his  own congratulations to the Director-General and  his assistants for the clear and thorough way in  which the draft programme and budget had been  prepared. He had a few comments to make,  however, on points of detail: (1) the "Index" to  document 8C/5 should have appeared at the end  of the document when it was distributed to Member  States; (2) it would be useful to be able to refer  rapidly to the corresponding passages in the  Director-General's report; (3) a brief summary    BUDGET COMMISSION  of previous work should precede each item;
(4) lastly, it might be well to state briefly at the  beginning of each of the main chapters why certain  activities had been abandoned. It would then be  easy to see where, in preparing each new pro-  gramme, the Secreta.iat had attempted to achieve  concentration,
(27) The Belgian delegation was also in agreement  with the views so forcibly expressed by the delegates  of France ‘and the United Kingdom, It did not  consider Unesco as an international ministry of  education, but as a great and noble undertaking  whose aim it was to pool the achievements of human  intelligence and use them for the good of all mankind,
(28) The Belgian delegation therefcre most warmly  approved the idea of adapting Unesco's programme  to meet the needs of Member States on a wider  scale than hitherto, It hoped that increasing re-  sources would be available for that purpose,
(20) Mr. Florkin went on to say that, whether  Unesco concerned itself with their fate or not,  thinkeFs, artists and scientists would continue to  enrich the cultural heritage of mankind; but it was  essential for the future of Unesco that the Organiza-  tion should be able to rely implicitly upon the  intarnational collaboration of creative workers.
(30) The Belgian delegation would therefore view  with anxiety the stabilization of Unnsco's general  activities at their existing level, The Director-  General had pointed out the previous day that it was  a question of a transitional two-year period. The  Belgian delegate hoped that it was not a case of  what lawyers called a "deferred judgment",
(31) The activities planned in the chapters on  education, natural sciences, social sciences and  cultural activities seemed to maintain a very high  level and the Belgian delegation hoped that important  international organizations such as IBE, ICSU and  CIPSH, the International Social Science Council and  the International Association of the Visual Arts  would play an increasingly large part in them.
(32) One of the main distinctions between Man  and the animal world was that Man could inherit a  wealth of masterpieces, knowledge and high moral  principles from his forebears. It had been said  that every man saw further than his ancestors,  because he was borne on the shoulders of a giant,  who symbolized the entire intellectual heritage of  the past, and its extension in the present, Thai  giant had lived in every part of the world and had  been fed by them all, It was greatly to be hoped  that he would wax in strength, so that there would  soon be room on his broad, firm shoulders for  all the peoples of the world.
(33) Mr. SAWADA (Japan) expressed great appre-  ciation of the Director -General's statement on  future programme and policy and of the report of  the Advisory Committee on Programme and Budget.  Since most questions covered by the two reports  had been studied by the Executive Board, he hoped  the Commission would, in its discussions, bear the  Board's views in mind,
(34) During the discussions prior to the acceptance  of the idea of remodelling the programme, much  attention had Leen given to regionalization, While  he did not like the word and hoped that it would be  - 284 -   PROGRAMME AND  possible to find one which better expressed the aims  in mind, he was in favour of Unesco giving more  help to Member States, He also agreed with the  view expressed by many delegates in plenary  meetings that the rôle of the Natlonal Commissions  should be extended. National Commissions had an  important part to play in educating the masses con-  cerning Unesco; the Organization could not achieve  its objectives without the goodwill and help of the  people, For that reason the Japanese delegation  had presented a proposal to encourage the develop-  ment of Friends of Unesco Clubs, which he hoped  would receive support,
(35) In the field of natural sciences, Japan was  interested in scientific research to raise standards  of living and improve sconumic conditions. That  was why Japan was anxious to see oceanographic  studies developed by Unesco, and he desired that  the draft resolution submitted by his delegation to  the present Conference on the establishment of an  advisory committee on oceanographic research be  adopted at that juncture, He also welcomed the  resolution of the Indian delegation on the peaceful  use of atomic energy and referred to his own  delegation's proposal for scientific research on  injuries and harm caused by radioactive material.  A resolution on the subject was at present under  discussion at the United Nations, and he looked  forward to the report on the situation promised by  the Director-General,
(36) The Japanese delegation was especially in-  terested in fundamental education and technical aid,  which subjects had been studied by the Japanese  National Commission, His country was anxious  for help from Unesco, but also ready to give what-  ever assistance it could by intellectual and moral  co-operation, Much had been achieved by Unesco  in fundamental education, but there was still room  for improvement, Every effort must be made to  accomplish the objects for which Unesco had been  set up, and he anticipated good results from the  discussions in the Programme and Budget Com-  mission,
(37) Mr. MENCEL (Poland) stated that, in his  delegation's opinion, the principle of universality  was fundamental to Unesco, the prime condition for  its success and the very justification for its  existence. Yet, the General Conference at its  present session had decided by & majority vote to  exclude certain countries,
(38) The Polish delegation considered that absent  countries should not be discouraged, but that, on  the contrary, they should be included in at least  part of the programme, and should be invited,  even if they were not for the moment Members of  Unesco, to co-operate with the Organization in  useful cultural activities.
(38) With regard to the question of priorities, it  had been said that the difficulty lay in the diversity  of the countries concerned, and particularly in  their cultural, political and economic differences.  The Polish delegation considered however, that  there was one criterion for priority which un-  doubtedly held good for every nation; that of safe-  guarding peace. The Polish delegation therefore  urged the Commission to give priority, among the    BUDGET COMMISSION IV-4  numerous draft projects listed, to those likely to  make the most immediate and practical contribution  to the reduction of international tension and to the  creation of a spirit cf understanding and co-operation  between the nations.
(40) To that end, the Polish delegation would  suggest that prior..y, from the point of view of time,  effort and expenditure, be accorded to action in the  field of mass communication, with a view to  abolishing war and hate propaganda, and fostering  an atmosphere of tolerance and understanding  likely to stimulate international cultural and  economic exchanges.
(41) In the field of the social sciences, the Polish  delegation would also support any research on the  lessening of tensions, on the principle of negotiation  in international relations and particularly on the  problem of building up a system of collective  security between all nations both in Europe and the  rest of the world,
(42) The Polish delegai:on ‘ikewise thought it  important to support any attempt to organize inter -  nationsl meetings of scientists and artists, and to  give p.iblicity to those meetings, not only among  intellectual leaders and specialists, but also  among the workers and educated people in every  country, Unesco should, in addition, encourage  the publication, in a number of languages, of the  recommendations of such meetings and congreases,  including editions intended for the general public.
(43) Further, the Polish delegation would support  any action and expenditure designed to facilitate  and broaden artistic exchanges throughout the world,  international theatre tours, exhibitions likely to  spread knowledge of national cultures, while drawing  attention both to their diversity and their common  human qualities. Thus, as defender of the peace  and intermediary between the various national  cultures, Unesco would be able to achieve more  than by means of publications and exhibitions about  the Organization itself,
(44) Mr, Mercel recalled that, in the United  Nations, his country had supported the programme  of technical assistance to economically under-  developed countries. Poland would also support  those sections of Unesco's programme which con-  cerned technical co-operation with such countries  on a basis of equality and mutual respect.
(45) As the Polish delegation saw it, the most  important tisk facing the Commission was to  ensure that the budget, without any undue increase,  was concentrated on a few particularly important  projects, enabling Unesco to discharge the most  urgent duty which the nations expected of it, namely,  to construct the deiences of a larting peace.
(48) Mr. CALO (Italy) recalled that the Head of  the Italian delegation had already put forward its  general views, For his own part, he would merely  draw the Commission's attention to a few important  points. In the first place, some doubt might exist  as to the utility of the many filters through which  material submitted to the Commission tad to pass.
(47) Secondly, in collaboration with National  Commissions, a new procedure for the preparation  of the programme should be worked out, but  without encroaching upon responsibili:ies belonging  - 285 -   IV-4 PROGRAMME AND  essentislly to the Director-General and the  Secretariat. Once those c sions had been taken,  the objectives assigned to tic Advisory Committee  on Programme and Budget might be seen in a  different light, and an almost inevitable drawback  at present, namely, the tendency of Member States  to submit their draft resolutions too late, might be  overcome. The Advisory Committee proposed to  remedy the situation by altering the prescribed  intervals between the submission of draft resolutions  and the opening of the Conference, but, in view of  the difficulties of publishing the draft programme  and budget any earlier and the considerable delays  involved in forwarding documents to certain States,  it might not be easy to carry out that suggestion,  At all events, it should be clearly understood that  the Commission and the Conference should remain  fully entitled to examine the programme in detail,  while at the same time exercising the self-  discipline which was necessary if their work was  to be effective,
(48) The Italian delegation considered that Unesco  should cease to spend money on unprofitable under-  takings, such as staff travel, tours of inspection  and seminars, Instead of an international seminar,  it was often better to organize local courses, if  necessary with technical aid. Greater emphasis  should be laid on fellowships, study abroad and  exchange of persons,
(49) In that connexion, it was worth while remem-  bering that, after a series of seminars held at La  Brévière, the Consultative Committee on Adult  Education had come to the conclusion that they  should be terminated and that La Brévière should  be used as a centre for research and experiments,
(50) Such were the ideas behind the draft resolu-  tions and amendments submitted by the Italian  delegation, particularly in respect of education.  Their aim was generally either to simplify pro-  cedure, or to promote econcmy, to view certain  problems more rationally in the light of national  needs and assuming more effective co-operation  between National Commissions; or to suggest tasks  deserving Unesco's attention, or, lastly, to  suppress tentative action where intervention by  Unesco was bound to be useless and ineffective.
(51) There would always be problems which could  be dealt with only at the national level, others  calling for scientific research which Unesco could  not undertake itself, and others which required no  more than an exchange of information on the  results of certain enquiries. It was particularly  important to decide to which category each of the  proposed tasks belonged,
(52) The Director-General had expressed the  firm and praiseworthy intention of achieving a  good balance, In the opinion of the Italian delegate,  what Unesco should do was to make a general  appeal for co-operation, whenever it seemed  evident that the aims in view could not be achieved  by isolated efforts,
(53) The Italian delegation shared the views ex-  presscd by the delegate of the United Kingdom.  The cause of culture in general could not be served  if fundamental education and the implementation of  the right to culture were neglected. Furthermore  the success of popular education would be    BUDGET COMMISSION  jeopardized if creative forces and activities of the  mind were not stimulated, Civilization had veered  from the high cultural level of a small minority to  the shallow culture of the masses, A link should  be established between those two spheres, and it  would be a grave mistake to believe it possible to  develop fundamental education without tapping the  sources of a higher culture,
(54) The Italian delegation wished to submit certain  remarks on the remodelling of the programme.  First, it urged that closer links be established  between all educational activities, Problems con-  cerred with the teaching of particular subjects,  such as th> natural and social sciences, should be  dealt with by the Department of Education. In  such cases, educational considerations should be  uppermost. It might be necessary in the end to  set up mixed working parties in the Department of  Education on the lines suggested by the United States  delegation.
(55) Still more radical changes appeared necessary  in the field of Mass Communication, A clear  distinction should be made, for example, between  the cinema as a specific art form and the cinema  as an instrument for the spreading of news and  propaganda, As an art form, the cinema should  count as a cultural activity.
(56) As far as information was concerned, the  activities under that heading were extremely  complex and should be classified according to their  purpose:
1, Information for schools and educational  purposes (cinema, radio, press and television);
2. Information for the adult population as a  whole;
3. Information about Unesco and other inter-  national organizations working for international  co-operation and understanding;
4. Technical improvement of information media.
(57) Half Unesco's work in that field might,  however, prove useless if the right of all men to  know the truth and to have free access to every  source of information wer« not effectively safe-  guarded. To do violence to men's minds by  deliberately fostering ignorance was a crime  against human dignity and one of the worst forms  of encroachmient upon freedom.
(58) Mr. Calo next referred to his delegation's  draft resolution concerning the study of the harmful  effects of mass media on children, There was  merely a question of continuing enquiries already  undertaken by the Secretariat in accordance with  instructions given by the General Conference at  its seventh session. Many Member States had  replied that they were in favour of the enquiry. In  Italy those concerned attached great importance to  the problem. There was no question of introducing  any form of censorship, nor of overlapping in any  way with activities already underway, The  proposed centre would merely co-ordinate the  work of existing bodies, For the time being,  the Italian delegation simply proposed that Unesco  continue its consultations with Member States, and  it recommended that a committee of experts be  convened at the end of 1855. In conclusion,  Mr. Calo hoped that the Italian proposal would  be accepted,   PROGRAMME AND
(59) Mr. ZAMORANO HERNANDEZ (Chile)  observed that his delegation was taking part for  the first time in the discussions of the General  Conference and found it a very interesting  experirnce, He had perceived that, despite the  differences of culture, outlook and aims, there  was an underlying sense of human unity, ccnducive  to agreement and solidarity, He was on the whole  in favour of a higher budget level. Unesco's re-  sources would never suffice to satisfy all deinands,  but a budgetary increase would facilitate the  implementation of Unesco's programme, and  would help it to launch new projects. States  recently admitted to Unesco were not only pre-  pared to pay their contributions, but also hoped  to submit new projects,
(60) Mr. Zamorano explained that he was against  any rigid stabilization of the budget and advocated  considerable flexibility in carrying out the pro-  gramme, so that Unesco's work might become  more universal. While considering it inappropriate  to increase Member States' contributions, he  thought that the contributions of new Member States  should be usefully employed. Further, there  should be closer relations between Unesco and its  Member States.
(61) He did not consider 1t fitting for Unesco to  concern itself with research on cancer, Such work  was the responsibility of other international organ-  izations working in other fields and, if necessary,  Unesco could make suitable suggestions to them,  He supported the view of the Indian delegation chat  Unesco's work should be imbued with a spirit of  international understanding and human fellowship,  It was not necessary to create special bodies to  take charge of such activities. France had suggested  that international understanding and education for  living in a world commumty should be the subject  of special chapters, There could be no doubt that  the ideas underlying the proposals of India and  France were identical, All classes of society  should be associated with the activities and aims  of Unesco, but that woud depend upon the work  done by National Commissions, Unesco should  serve as a catalytic agent, co-ordinating and en-  couraging efforts, information and new endeavours,
(62) While approving the decentralization of  Unesco's activities, the delegate of Chile was  against administrative decentralization. Attcmpts  at decentralization should take the form of training  teachers, not only primary teachers, but also  secondary school teachers and university staff,  The following month, an Inter-American Seminar  on Secondary Education would be held at Santiago,  Chile, and all countries, particularly those of  Latin America, were invited to take part. In  Chile, an Institute of Oceanographic Research  already existed. If, in accordance with the draft  resolution submitted by Japan, an advisory Com-  mittee on Oceanographic Research were set up,  Chile would wish to take part in it.
(63) In conclusion, Mr. Zamorano hoped that  priority would be given to all projects likely to  advance international understanding and peace.
(64) Mr. DIAZ SAMAYOA (Guatemala) praised  the layout and content of the draft programme  BUDGET     COMMISSION IV-4  and budget for 1955-56, its approach to the various  problems, and its eagerness to meet the needs of  Member States, While approving many of the new  projects in the programme, the speaker consider ed  that they should not impair the activities which  Unesco already had in hand. Work should be  intensive rather than extensive, During the next  two-year period, Unesco's budget ought to be  increased.
(65) Mr. Diaz Samayoa emphasized the importance  of funda:nental and adult education, literacy  campaigns, public libraries, and the use of radio  and films as means of raising the general cultural  level, He advocated that projects be carried out  over longer periods, as they would thus be more  effective and might lead to the formation of a  cultural tradition,
(66) He thanked Unesco for the help it had given  Guatemala in sending a Technical Assistance  Mission to advance the country's industrial develop-  ment, The experts sent had achieved practical  results, He also thanked Unesco for the fellowships  awarded to Guatemalans for industrial studies; that  would encourage students, including members of  native groups, to go in for vocational training. For  th” training of industrial teachers, the Government  of Guatemala had set aside over 190, 000 cuetzules,  the scheme would last for at least ten years. There  was an Industrial Training Comnuttee and an  Agricultural Institute at Retalhuleu, as well as four  engineering schools and an engineering institute,  Guatemala had asked for Unesco's assistance in a  programme for the production of textbooks and other  teaching materials; the Government had set aside
(67) Mr, Diaz Samayoa was in favour of encouraging  research, especially in the social sciences. The  Univer sity of Guatemala had set up an institute for  social science research, and had asked Unesco  for technical aid in that new venture, which would  contribute to the well-being of Guatemala and to  international understanding.
(68) Mr. ESTELRICH (Spain) pointed out that,  since Spain had joined Unesco two years previously,  efforts had been made to keep in close contact with  the Organization. He wished to make a general  s'atement in connexion with the presentation of the  draft pr .gramme and budget for 1955-56
(69* Viith regard to the stabilization of the budget,  Spain would not, for the time being, express any  final opinion. It seemed to him, however, that  any budget increase should go to help under-  developed countries and to new projects to be  undertaken by Unesco at the request of Meinber  States.
(70) The delegate of Spain recommended that  decentralization be effected by means of regional  institutions, established by Unesco in close co-  operation with the States concerned, He also  thought that the programme should be adjusted to  the particular conditions of each country and each  cultural or linguistic group.
(71) Furthermore, Mr. Estelrich considered that  education should include the humanities, The part  of the programme relating to humanistic studies  should be considered in relation to general  - 287 -
1v-4 PROGRAMME AND  education. Only thus could men be imbued with the  eternal spiritual, intellectual and cultural values,  The inclusion of the humanities did not in any way  conflict with the acquisition of scientific knowledge,  which was necessary. In many countries, the  people's cultural level and the technical instr:ments  at their disposal were out of all proportion.
(72) Unesco was turning illiterates into literates,  but new literates might find themselves without  reading matter. It might not be wise to furmsh  them with extracts from Don Quixote or Shakespeare,  but the humanities should not be excluded from  their education, There was a relevant project in  the programme which should be attached to the  education chapter,
(73) Further, Unesco applied political and geo-  graphical criteria to activities which should be  Judged only on the basis of cultural criteria, For  example, Unesco did not seem to take account, in  any of its projects, of the cultural values of the  Spanish, Arabic or Germanic groups. Unesco,  owing to its very nature, should apply cultural  criteria alone. The speaker drew attention to  the fact that very interesting cultural activities  were going on in America. He was in sympathy  with the motion presented by the Union of South  Africa for the development o! the African continent,  and was in favour of better interpenetration of  eastern ans, western cultures. A knowiedge of other  cultures widened people's horizons. He would  therefore advecate the translation into Spanisn,  under Unesco's auspices, of classical Arabic,  Indian, Chinese and Japanese works, Spain would  be glad to co-operate in that work,
(74) Mr. STOLETOV (Union of Soviet Soc:alist  Republics) said that his delegation had followed the  Commission's debates with great interest. Some  of tne points put forward were of basic interest  and deserved attention, His delegation considered  that Unesco propaganda and infor mation should be  used only for encouraging a spirit of peace and  international understanding and not for stimuiating  a spirit of aggression, Information was perhaps  being abused at the present tirne with the idea of  creating anxiety and eagerness to go to war among  the public. Culture should not be placed at the  service of any cause other than that of peacc, He  therefore hcped that support would be given to the  resolution put forward to that end by his delegation,
(75) Mr. LOEFFLER (German Federal Republic)  joined in the congratulations offered to the  Jdirector-General on the clarity and conciseness  of the draft programme, which succeeded in  emphasizing the essential points and set out the  joint work plans so well,
(76) Mr. LBeffler approved the idea of dividing  each chapter into two main sections and considered  that the Executive Board's report on the remodelling  of the future programme deserved close study.  He believed that the work of the National Commis-  sions should be made more effective by bringing  them more closely into touch with Unesco's  activities and with the preparation of the pro-  gramme, although that should not mean lessening  the responsibilities of the Secretariat.  - 288 -     BUDGET COMMISSION
(77) The delegate of the German Federal Republic  was keenly interested in the project to provide for  co-operation between the Secretariat and intellectual  leaders in all Member States to promote the spread  of information and foster international understanding,
(78) He further approved the division of the budget
2stimates into two levels provided that those two  levels continued to be regarded as an integrated  whole, While a higher priority might be assigned  to certain projects, and others suppressed, they  should nevertheless he judged as part of a single  programme,
(79) The German delegation noted with pleasure  that the Secretariat planned to subsidize the three  Institutes which Unesco had set up in Germany,  The activities of those bodies had assumed con-  siderable importance and they could complement  Unesco's programme by making their influence  felt beyond the frontiers of the country tn which  they were established,
(80) Mr. LBeffler congratulated the Director-  General on having introduced into the programme  certain proposals relating in particular to school  education, education for international understanding,  and the improvement of school textbooks and teach-  ing materials to further such understanding,
(81) He drew attention to the fact that the appro-  priate bodies in the German Federal Republic had  done a great deal to put Unesco's ideas on education  into practice,
(82) Mr, LBeffler concluded by saying that, although  his delegation had some criticisms to make on points  of detail, it would always try to be constructive in  its criticism.
(83) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) emphasized the need  to strengthen the Organization's work of co-ordina-  tion. He thought that Unesco should try to give  greater support to important organizations such as  IBE, ICSU and CIPSH. The means at present made  available to them were out of keeping with the  balance which should exist in the distribution of  Unesco's funds.
(84) Unless Unesco gave fuller support to the freest  forms of intellectuai co-operation, in the light of  current requirements, scientists, humanists and  sociologists would continue to take less interest  than they should in Unesco,
(85) The secretariats of such bodies were in fact  working for the very ideas that Unesco stood for.  They lacked the funds, however, to carry out  effectively work which was indispensable to the  Organization's development.
(86) Mr, Photiades was convinced that Unesco  should develop on the lines of intellectual rather  than of political co operation, since therc were  other bodies to deal with that angle. Unesco should  rely more on those working to raise inteiiectual  standards,
(87) He did not think, however, that that warranted  a cut in the funds for the Department of Education.  It should be possible to econor.ize on ac‘ivitie-  deserving a lower priority than that assigned to  co-operation between srientists and cultural  leaders, who were the backbone ot Unesco,  Unless Unesco remaired true to tnat principle,  the thread of continuity linking all its activities   PROGRAMME AND  would be broken, and objectives of a different kind  would assert themselves,
(88) In Mr. Photiades' view, the aim should be to  make Unesco more universal in its own fields, but  without encroaching on the universality of other  Specialized Agencies, or on universality as con-  ceived in the sphere of politics,
(88) The Greek delegation thought it desirable for  delegates to take more interest in organizations  for intellectual co-operation, with the aim of  broadening Unesco's whole cultural scope.
(80) Mr, RIEGNER (Conference of International  Non-Governmental Organizations having Consult-  ative Arrangements with Unesco) drew the Com-  mission's attention to document 8C/PRG/21, con-  taining the observations made by the non-govern-  mental organizations after a meeting to which they  had been invited for consultation by the Director-  General,
(91) Mr. Riegner thanked the Director-General for  enabling those organizations to meet twice to  examire the future programme of Unesco with  members of the Secretariat, and expressed the  hope that the practice would continue to be adopted  in juture,  {92) He also wished to convey the satisfaction felt  by the non-governmental organizations at seeing  that the Director-General and the Executive Board  nad, in their reports tn the General Conference,  drawn special attention to the importance they    BUDGET COMMISSION IV-5  attached to the co-operation of such organizations  with Unesco,
(93) Anxious though he was not to encroach on the  right of individual organizations to put forward their  comments on Unesco's programme, Mr. Reigner  pointed out that there was full agreement among those  organizations in regard to certain problems raised  before the Commission.  {94} The non-governmental orgamzations had been  unanimous in hoping that the General Conference, at  its eighth session, would adopt the higher spending  level as expressed in the draft appropriation resolution.
(95) The Conference of Non-Governmental Organiza-  tions likewise welcomed the emphasis laid in the new  programme on projects corresponding to particular  needs of certain Member States, It considered.  however, that it woula be dangerous to stabilize the  budget for permenent activities promoting inter -  national co-operation on an international scale,
(96) After drawing attention to certain aspects of the  above-mentioned document, and particularly to the  observations regarding ways of strengthening co-  operation between Unesco, its National Commissions  and its Secre:ariat, on the one hand, and the inter-  national non-governmental organizations, on the  other, Mr. Riegncr concluded by assuring the Com-  mission of the devotion of those organizations to the  ideals and work of Unesco.  The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m.  FIFTH MEETING
19 November 1954 at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland)  ITEM 8.2 OF THE REVISED AGENDA CONSIDERATION OF THE  REPORT OF THE ADVISORY COMMITTEE AND GENERAL  DISCU’ SION OF THE DRAFT PROGRAMME AND BUDGET FOR
(1) Mr, KOVAL (Ukrainian Soviet Socialist  Republic) felt that in 1955-56 Unesco should begin  to implement the recommendations put forward  at international conferences in Geneva in 1953 and
1954 on the promotion nf fundamental education,  the use of the mother tonpue in th: various countries  and free secc dary schoc..ng, In that connexion,  he referred to the Uruguayan proposal regarding  completely free schooling.
(2) Speaking nf the natural and social sciences, he  was in favour of the measures to provide technical  aid, the clearing house fur information in the social  sciences, and ai ! to international organizations  contributing to the development of scientific co-  operation.
(3) The cultur:1 bodies of the Ukraine were ready  to take part in preparing a history of the scientific  and cultural development of mankind, and in  promoting scien’ fic and cultural exchanges.
(4) Mr, Koval was also in favour of the technical  and economic assistance requested by the under-  developed countries from the United Nations. It  should not be Lonfined to sending out specialists  and giving expert advice. He thought that Unesco's  administrative costs should be cut, and that the  savings should be devoted to the technical assistance  programme,
(5) The Ukraiman delegate hoped that the General  Conference would not miss any opportunity of  fostc ring mutual understanding among the peoples  and helping to solve the problems of safeguarding  international peace and security, Hs delegation  particularly approved the proposals put forward by  India with regard to the peaceful utilization of  atomic energy and the insertion in the Conference