ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON  Mass Communication) said that this item had been  adequately handled for years past by the Department  of Mass Communication. At the moment the Radio  Division had arrangements with 115 countries for  exchanges of programmes. There was a clearing  house system for educational, scientific and cultural  programmes and a description of these facilities was  to be found in paragraph 137 of the chapter on Mass  Communication, It could therefore be claimed that  the recommerdation was already covered by the  PROGRAMME AND     BUDGET VI-19  provisions of the programme and, in any case the  Executive Board had decided that nothing ought to be  done about it,
(141) On the motion of the delegate of the United  States of America that the conclusions of the Executive  Board be accepted, item 3 was rejected by 7 votes tc
1, with 1 abstention.  The meeting rose at 7 p.m.  NINETEENTH MEETING
12 November 1954 at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman’ Me. GARDNER DAVIES (Australia)  ITEM 1.3 OF TUE AGENDA DISCUSSION OF DRAFT RFSOLU-  TIONS SUBMITTED DY MEMBER STATES (continued)  DR/20: Education
(1) The CHAIRMAN called upon Mr. Desjardins to  explain the effect this resolution would have on the  programme of the Department of Mass Communica-  tion and whether there would be any budgetary  implications.  {2) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  munication) said that the Executive Board had  accepted the draft resolution proposed by the dele-  gation of Indja, He considered that it made a  contribution to the work of Unesco and came within the  scope of its programme for the coming period; \t  had no budgetary implications,
(3) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) did not think  that anyone would oppose the resolution but wondered  what effect it would have. As it was worded, it gave  the impression that the Director-General had over-  looked the contributions of the Asian and African  countries. In addition, he wondered whether the  resolution would prove useful, as the Director-  General was already doing work in that field.
(4) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) wished to remove any  feeling of apprehension with regard to the resolution,  which had not been intended to convey that the  Director-General had neglected certain parts of the  world, The Government of India had confidence in  the Direcior-General as custodian of the interests of  all countries. With regard to the evolution of human  rights, he thought that insufficient emphasis had been  put on the efforts made by the Asian and African  countries and was suggesting that an addition should  be made to the existing material emphasing  the wo:k being done in those parts of the  world.
(5) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) proposed amending the  wording of the resolution by adding the words "as well  as other countries’ after the words "the Asian and  African countries”,
(6) The CHAIRMAN thought that, 1f that addition  were made, ‘he resolution would lose its purpose.
(7) There being no further comments, he put to the  vote the proposal that a decision be taken to recom-  mend to the Programme and Budget Commission the  arnendment proposed by the delegate of Israel. The  proposal was adopted by 7 votes in favour, 1 against  and 2 abstentions,  {8) The CHAIRMAN then asked whether the Committee  was prepared to forward the resolution to the Pro-  gramme and Budget Commission in view of the  recommendation made by the Executive Board.
(9) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) was surprised at the  wording: "Authorizes the Director-General,..".
(10) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  thought that the Indian resolution could be regarded  as a general direction for special consideration by  the Director-General in the execution of the 1955-56  programme.
(11) The Committee agreed to signify its approval  of the spirit of the resolution and to suggest that the  Director-General should use it as a guide when  considering the programme for 1955-56.  DR/22: Mass Communication  {12) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) stated that the  Executive Board did not recommend this resolution,
(13) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  munication) considered the resolution was not very  - 769 -   VI-19 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON  clear. In any case, it simply asked for an extension  of the work already undertaken by the Secretariat  (Mass Communication, paragraphs 143-145). The  Secretariat had provided for $6,000 a year; the  Italian delegation was asking for $10,000 in 1955 and  for $20,000 in 1956.
(14) The CHAIRMAN reminded the Committee that,  when considering paragraph 143 of the , rogramme of  the Department of Mass Communication, it had  secided to give the project a low priority.
(15) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) proposed that the Commit-  tee should endorse the decision of the Executive  Board and not recommend the resolution to the  General Conference,
(16) Mr. CABOUAT (France) sa.d that the French  Government departments which deait with children's  papers, radio ani films had always been interested  in Unesco's work in that field, His delegation was  prepared to approve the Italian draft resolution, but  with an additional appropriation of $6,000 in all,  instead of the $30,000 proposed in docuinent 8C/DR/22.  Mr. Cabouat asked that the body of the resolution be  treated as a directive to the Director-General and  that the total appropriation be increased by $5,000  over the sums mentioned in paragraph 145,
(17) The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the proposal of  the delegate of Israel, which was adopted by 8 votes  in favour, 3 against and 0 abstentions.  DR/33: Discounts for Administrative Expenses In  connexion with Unesco Coupons
(18) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) indicated that  the Executive Board did not recommend this  resolution to the General Conference.
(19) Mr. ZUCKERMAN (Department of Mass Com-  munication) read resolution 5,422 and explained that  the draft resolution proposed introducing à new  element by asking that the Director-General should  refrain from making participation of suppl ers in the  Unesco Coupon Scheme conditional upon their willing-  ness to grant a discount. Up to the present, the  Director-General had been able to decide whether or  not to insist on a discount. If such a change were  introduced, it was obvious that all suppliers would  decide not to give a discount, which would be a great  financial loss to Unesco, The amounts which Unesco  had received in discount in 1953-54 were $30,000 and  $40,000 respectively, and it was expected that the  sura of $50,000 would be received in 1955-56, Those  amounts would cover the overhead costs of the project.
(20) Mr. CABOUAT (France) explained that the draft  resolution had been submitted at the request of the  French authorities, which had noticed price increases  or the refusal of suppiiers to accept Unesco coupor.s.
(21) Mr. ZUCKERMAN (Department of Mass Com-  munication) said that there had been a few cases at the  beginning of the Scheme where no discounts had been  given. The )ssue had been settled since then and
700 supplier’. had now agreed in writing to grant a    PROGRAMME AND BUDGFT  discount and had given an undertaking not to charge  the discount back to the purchasers,
(22) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) proposed that the Com-  mittee should adopt the recommendation of the  Executive Board not to consider the resolution  contained in document 8C/DR/33.
(23) The CHAIRMAN put the proposal to the vote, It  was adopted by 9 votes in favour, 1 against and 0  abstentions.  DR/34: Educational Television Broadcasts
(24) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) said that the  Executive Board had agreed to recommend this  proposal to the General Conference.
(25) Mr, DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  munication) noted that the resolution was divided into  two parts. The first was an invitation to Member  States and had no budgetary implications. The effect  of the second would be to accord a higher priority to  existing appropriations, half of which had been given  a lower priority, while the other half stood as it was,  under the decisions taken by the Committee.
(26) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium), seconded by Mr.  ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt), moved that the first part  nf the resolution be adopted,
(27) On being put to the vote, that proposal was  adopted by 8 votes to nil, with 1 abstention,
(28) Mr. CABOUAT (France) said he would agree to  consider the second part of the resolution as a  general directive, designed simply to draw the  attention of the Director-General to that item in the  programme,
129) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) asked whether  the seminar mentioned in sub-paragraph (a) was one  which had already been started and whether the work  proposed in sub-paragraph (b) was not one of the  functions of the Unesco clearing house,
(30) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  munication) remarked that the French resolution  alluded to the arrangements for co-operation between  Unesco and the French Broadcasting and Television  Service, which had conducted an enquiry into the  effects of its broadcasts in rural areas.
(31) The CHAIRMAN suggested that the resolution could  be forwarded to the Director-General as a directive to  guide him in work on the programme for 1935-56.
(32) The Committee agreed to this suggestion by 8  votes in favour, O against and 2 abstentions,
(33) The CHAIRMAN announced that the two related  resolutions contained in documents 8C/DR/43 and
8C/DR/52 submitted by Spain had been withdrawn,  DR/4*: Free Movement of Persons
(34) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) intimated that  - 770 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON  the Executive Board did not recommend this  resolution to the General Conference.
(35) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  munication) said that the draft resolution proposed  by the Uruguayan delegation sprang from considera-  tions similar to those behind document 8C/PRG/8  (Report of the Director-General on the draft interna-  tional instrument to reduce obstacles to the free  movement of persons engaged in educational,  scientific and cultural activities and wishing to travel  for purposes connected with those activities).
(36) Mr. CABOUAT (Fran-e) considered that the  question should be referred to a working party.
(37) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  munication) stated ‘nat the relevant documents were  under consideration by the working party on  international agreements.
(38) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) moved the endorsement  of the conclusions of the Executive Board on the draft  resolution.
(39) A vote was taken and Mr. Florkin's proposal  was adopted unanimously.  DR/57: Circulation of Educational, Scientific and  Cultural Publications  {40) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) intimated that  the Executive Board did not recommend this  resolution to the General Conference.
(41) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  munication) informed the Committee that the issue of  a umiversally recognized stamp was a matter for the  Universal Postal Union.
(42) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) gave  it as his opinion that there was very little chance of  the Director-General's being able to persuade UPU.
(43) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) proposed that the  recommendation of the Executive Board be approved,
(44) Adopted unanimously.  DR/23: Exchange of Persons
(45) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) intimated that  this resolution had been recommended to the General  Conference by the Executive Board.
(46) Mr. W. CARTER (Chief, Exchange of Persons  Service) said that, in paragraphs 101 and 102 in the  programme for the Exchange of Persons Service, it  was recommended, as part of Unesco's programme,  to grant a contract of $1,000 in 1955 and 1956 to the  International Association of Umversity Professors  and Lecturers for the purpose of completing  studies of the conditions relating to the move-  ment of teaching personnel and educational ad-  ministrators, The substance of the draft  resolution would increase those contracts to  $2,000 each year.    PROGRAMME AND BUDGET Vi-18
(47) In answer to a question from Mr. ABDEL-  RAHMAN (Egypt) as to the purpose of the contract, he  replied that it was preferable to undertake those  studies under contract rather than to have studies  made by the Secretariat.
(48) The CHAIRMAN said that :t would be difficult to  recommend the contract uniess fuller information  were available,
(49) Mr. W, CARTER (Chief, Exchange of Persons  Service) said that in 1953 the International Association  of University Professors and Lecturers had made  stidies of vquivalences and of the main {actors  operative in the exchange of teachers. It was pro-  posud that these studies should be continued and ex-  tended in 1955-56 in order to build up documentation  on problems facing teachers in exchange schemes.
(50) Mr. LEE (United States of America) said that  use could be made of that information, but proposed,  in view of the other projects, postponing a decision  on the resolution and sending it to the Secretariat for  study in preparation for the 1957-58 programme.
(51) Mr. BOW (Canada) supported the United States  proposal. He hoped that, by referring the resolutions  to the Director-General for the purpose of developing  the programme for 1957-58, the Committee was not  drafting the programme for 1957-58.
(52) Mr. W. CARTER (Chief, Exchange of Persons  Service) replied that that was by no means the case.
(53) Mr, CABOUAT (France) said that, if he had  understood Mr, Carter correctly, the question would  arise of increasing the annual appropriations by  $2,000, If there were no such increase the Commit-  tee woulc have the option of referring the resolution  to the Director-General as a guide, for the inclusion  of specific proposals in the programme and budget for
(54) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the Director-  General would not be in a position to find the $4,000  concerned,
(55) Mr. LEE (United States of America) proposed  that the resolut.on be considered by the Director-  General for the 1957-58 programme.
(56) The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the proposal that  the Committee should agree to forward the contents  of the resolution to the Director-General with a  request that it should receive his consideration when  formulating the programme for 1957-58,
(57) That proposal was adopted by 7 votes in favour,
2 against, 1 abstention.
(58) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) still wished to  ask whether any cortracts had been granted previously,  and whether there was any document on the subject.
(59) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  said that a contract had been concluded in 1953 with  the International Association of University Professors  - 771 -   VI-18 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  and Lecturers, in co-operation. with the International  Association of Universities, to make 2 study of the  equivalence of degrees between different universities,  Nothing had been printed, but information was avail-  able for consultation, either through Unesco or the  International Association of Universities, which had  arranged for its publication.  DR/24: Exchange of Persons
(60) The Committee was informed that, in the opinion  of the Executive Board, it would disturb the balance  of the programme and the Board therefore did not  recommend the resolution.
(61) Mr. W. CARTER (Chief, Exchange of Persons  Service) explained that this resolution would require  a total budget of $21,000,
(62) The suggestion of the delegate of the United  Kingdom, seconded by the delegate of the United  States of America, that the recommendation of the  Executive Board be accepted, sas put to the vote and  adopted by 8 in favour, none against and 2abstentions.  DR/2: Use of Russian as a Working Language of  Unesco
(63) This was not a programme resoiution, and the  Executive Board was not in a position to recommend it.
(64) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) said  the draft resolution submitted by the Soviet Union  contained an ambiguity tn the preamble, where it  spoke of adopting Russian as one of Unesco's working  languages "on the same footing as English, French  and Spanish’, Unesco had only two working lan-  guages, English and French. Spanish was not a  working language except at the General Conference,
(65) On the assumption that Russian were adopted on  the same footing as French and English, Mr. Maheu  presented the following table of estimated costs:
1955 1956  General Conference, . . . © - 100,750  Sessions of Executive Board 23,296 25,743  Other conferences and  meetings . . . . 2 4 ... 168,374 150,355  Publications. . . . . . ... 499, 885 541,912  Total. . . .. . $691,555 818,760  Total for 1955-56 . . , ... ..... . . $1,510,315
(66) Mr. DUERING (Sweden) (Chairman of the Budget  Committee at the seventh session) stressed the  importance of the draft resolution under discussion,  and the need for the fullest possible information from  the Secretariat on the subject. One and a half mil-  lion dollars were required to place Russian on the  same footing as English and French as working  languages. What would be the budgetary implications  if it were adopted on the same basis as Spanish?
(67) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director -General)stated  that the expenditure would then be that arising at the  General Conference, or £100,750 in 1956, plus the  cost of publications on the basis adopted for Spanish.
(68) Mr. DELAVENAY (Chief, Documents and    Publications Service) said that the estimated cost of  publications in Spanish for 1955 was $150,804 and for
(69) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) men-  tioned that it would be necessary not only to ernploy  additional staff (salaries and miscellaneous staff costs  were included in the figures he had just given), but  also to find additional office space for them, he  doubted whether the additional staff could be hou sed  in the present headquarters premises,
(70) Mr. DELAVENAY (Chief, Documents and Pub-  lications Service) stated that in some departments  office space had reached saturation point; for example,  the only means of increasing the output of the printiag  presses would be to work in two shifts, one by day and  one by night, a system which would have financial  repercussions. With regard to offices for the re-  mainder of the staff, the possibilities varied in the  different services. In any event, the permanent  headquarters itself would not permit of a possible  increase of 30% in the requirements, which the  adoption of Russian as a general working language  would entail for certain sections of the Service.
(71) Mr. LEGUEN (Bureau of Conference Planning  and General Services) quoted, for purposes of com-  parison, the approximate cost to Unesco of renting  the annex in the Rue de Lapérouse on a commercial  basis. The figure was B or 10 thousand dollars.
(72) In reply to a question by Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium),  it was stated that premises equivalent to those in the  annex would suffice if Russian were used to the same  extent as Spanish at the present time,
(73) The CHAIRMAN suggested that it might be  necessary to obtain a clarification of the resolution.  It was not certain whether the delegation which had  submitted it wanted Russian on the same basis as  English and French, or not.
(74) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) enquired whether in the  proposed new headquarters building there was no room  for possible additional staff.
(75) The CHAIRMAN thought an increase of about 15%  had been provided for.
(76) Mr. LEGUEN (Bureau of Conference Planning  and General Services) said that it was difficult to give  a final answer on that subject, but that it would appear  essential to make a fresh distribution of offices and  to modify the plans of the new headquarters building.
(77) Mr. CABOUAT (France) asked Mr. Leguen  whether a rearrangement of the premises in the new  building would have budgetary implications.
(78) Mr. LEGUEN (Bureau of Conference Planning  and General Services) explained that the architects  had already prepared their final plans and that bud-  getary implications were to be expected if the  distribution of the premises were changed.
(79) Mr. JUNANKAR (India)said that the Headquarters  - 172 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  Committee should envisage possibilities of the kind,  in making its plans. It should not be forgotten that  Unesco aimed at universal membership.
(80) The CHAIRMAN replied that the Committee was  mindful of future needs, but could not at any particular  moment foresee the possibilities of expansion in their  entirety,
(81) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) asked whether  a document similar to 8C/ADM/7 on Spanish as a  working language, could not be provided with regard  to the Russian proposal, with budgetary details and  an estimate of the new work entailed. The problem  could then be approached in stages, as it had been in  the case of Spanish, beginning with simultaneous  interpretation and the circulation of certain docu-  ments, and full adoption might be deferred to a  subsequent General Conference.
(82) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) did  not think it possible to comply with the request of the  United Kingdom delegate, since, without detailed  information about the wishes of the Soviet delegation,  the Secretariat would have to fall back on mere con-  Jecture, it seemed wiser to pursue the present  practice of distinguishing several stages and to  provide the maximum figure for each stage.
(83) In reply to a question from the delegate of  Canada, Mr. Maheu said that it was possible, for  purposes of comparison, to obtain figures fiom those  Specialized Agencies which used Russian as a working  language; but he thought that such comparisons would  be less exact than budget estimates Ly stages.
(84) The CHAIRMAN suggested that, as new elements  were bound to arise in connexion with the draft re-  solution under discussion - for instance, it could not  be known yet whether simultanecus interpretation  would be required at the Executive Board - the  Commitiee should ask the Director-General for  further clarification of the resolution,and recommend  it to the General Committee for consideration  throughout the Conference as new elements were  brought to bear on it.
(85) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) wondered whether  the Programme and Budget Commission was compe-  tent to make any remarks on the resolution at all,
(86) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  considered that the use of any particular language  raised not only a budgetary but also a programme  question. For instance, the publication of certain  documents and books in Spanish was decided upon in  order to reach people who could not be reached by  the same publications in French or English.
(87) Mr. JUNANKAR (India), on a point of order,  asked whether in view of the explanation given by the  Secretariat the draft resolution should not be referred  back to the Executive Board for its further comments.
(88) The CHAIRMAN remarked that the Board vas  free to provide comments or not as 1t thought fit.
(89) Mr, AVIDOR (Israel) reminded the meeting of    VI-19  the decision 1aken by the Executive Board, contained  in 39 EX/DIV/2, by which $50,000 had been set aside  for the use of Russian during the eighth session of the  Conference,
(80) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) re-  called that the United Kingdom delegate, at an earlier  meeting, had asked on what authority the Secretariat  had undertaken to translate Conference documents  into Russian. The euthority came from a decision  adopted by the Executive Board at its thirty -eighth  session. The Assistant Director-General read out  document 39 EX/DIV/2 which contained the text of  that decision, He added that the actual expenditure  amounted to : bout $25,000 out of a total of $50,000.
(81) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) pointed out  that that had been a conditional resolution,
(92) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) considered that  the translation of publications attached to the pro-  gramme were programme matters, The use of  Russian in General Conferences, etc, was a matter of  general policy, but it still had a budgetary aspect  which should be studied.
(93) Mr. LEE (United States of America) asked  whether the Secretariat could prepare a breakdown of  the various categories of expenditure involved (inter-  pretation, the different kinds of records and publica-  tions, etc.) ain vrder that the proposal could be  studied at each stage.
(94) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  promised th» Committee that the Secretariat wou.d  prepare an analysis of each category of expenditure,  It was understood, for the reasons already stated,  that only maximum figures could be given for each  category and each stage.
(95) Miss LAISE (United States of America) said that
1f, as a working language, Russian were limited to  interpretation, mimeographed records and printed  summary ard official records, 1t might be possible  to carry out the necessary work on a contract basis,  without the additional problems of space and personnel
(36) In reply to the supposition put forward by the  delegate of he United States of America, Mr. MAHEU  (Assistant Mirector-General) said that the Secretariat  could accurately calculate the budgetary implications  for restrictzd objectives, whenever such objectives  were fixed,
(97) Mr. DELAVENAY (Chief, Documents and Pub-  lications Service) wished to clarify the notion of  "contract" mentioned by the delegate of the United  States of America. A contract could be concluded  either with another international orgamzation, or  with staff engaged on a temporary basis, since, in  the case under consideration, there was no private  agency able to take over the work.
(98) Exper ence had shown that, when urgent and  important work was involved, 1t was not possible to  conclude contracts with the United Nations, whose  peak periods frequently coincidea with those of Unesco.  As regarded temporary staff, of whom the Secretariat  - 773 -   VI-19 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  had wide experience, since it constantly engaged such  staff for sessions of the General Conference and the  Executive Board, they always needed a stiffening of  permanent staff well acquainted with the requirements  and terminology of Unesco.
(99) The meeting agreed to defer the consideration of  draft resolution No.2 until further information on it  had been obtained.  DR/4: Nerd for Making Unesco a Global Organization
(100) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) explained why  the Executive Board had not been able to recommend  this resolution. It was in accordance with the spirit  and goal of Unesco, but any application by a State to  join the Organization was obliged to go through the  Economic and Social Council. As some States might  not be considered favourably by that body, it would  not be wise to extend a general invitation.
(101) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) having enquired whether  there were still any Member States in the United  Nations that were not members of Unesco, he was  informed by the Secretariat that Ethiopia and Iceland  were in that category.
(102) A motion by the delegate of the United States of  America to accept the recommendation of the Execu-  tive Board was adopted by 9 in favour, 2 against and
1 abstention.
(103) Mr. CABOUAT (France), speaking as Rap-  porteur of the Committee, said that in his report he  would give the reasons why the Committee had not  recommended the adoption of draft resolution DR/4.
(104) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) asked whether  the delegate of India did not intend the word "invite"  to mean: "take steps that would lead to admittance to  Unesco"?
(105) The CHAIRMAN said that the Board had ap-  preciated that point ¢f view, but had considered it  would be awkward to issue such an invitation, in view  of the possibly adverse recommendation of the  Economic and Social Council.
(106) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) did not see that  the recommendation of the Council had any bearing on  the value of the actual invitation.
(107) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) was glad the delegate  of Egypt had raised the point. The resolution was not  intended to imply that the Director-General should  depart from any established constitutional practice.
(108) M1 FLORKIN (Belgium) suggested that the  essential .unction of the Director-General was to  carry out the programme as agreed by the General  Conference of Unesco. It could hardly be expected  that the Director-General should make any move to  amend the latter's decisions,
(109) Mr. LEE (United States of America) did not  wish to give the impression that his delegation believed  in the principle of exclusivity, He would be glad to    accept any rephrasing of the Indian resolution that  might overcome the objections of the Executive Board.
(110) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) shared the  view of the Executive Board that embarrassment might  arise If a direct invitation were extended. More  success might be obtained through the strategy of  indirect approach. There was another consideration:  at every General Conference, the Director-General  addressed an invitation to all States to join Unesco.  Therefore the method of direct approach was already  in force,
(111) The CHAIRMAN said that the question should be  reopened, although it had already been voted on, The  vote had been taken accidentally while the delegate of  Egypt had been asking to speak.
(112) Mr. LEE (United States of America) proposed  an amended alternative resolution:  "Realizing that Unesco cannot fulfil effectively its  great tasks of establishing the foundations of peace  upon the intellectual and moral solidarity of mankind  without becoming truly global in its membership,  character and scope, the General Conference would  v.elcome the admission of all States not yet meinbers  of Unesco which have demonstrated that they are  willing and able to abide by the obligations of the  Unesco Constitution."  This formula, Mr, Lee suggested, would express the  desire of the Conference while avoiding an  embarrassing situation.
(113) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) thought that there could  be no legal bar to the Director-General's extending  an invitation, Embarrassments that might subsequently  arise were quite unrelated to it.
(114) The amendment submitted by the delegate of the  United States of America was put to the vote and  adopted by 6 in favour, 2 against and 3 abstentions.  DR/7: Decentralization
(115) Mrs, PECSON (Executive Board) said that the  Executive Board had not recommended this resolution  A working party set up during the Conference would,  not be able to cope with so complex a study.
(116) The CHAIRMAN reminded the meeting that, on  the question of decentralization, it had already de-  cided to recommend the setting up of a working party  to the Programme and Budget Commission.Apparently  that was contrary to the views of the Executive Board,  The draft resolution added nothing to what was already  being done,
(117) After a brief discussion, the meeting decided  to leave its decision on the question of decentralization  as it stood, and refer it to the Commission.  DR/14: Establishment of a Regional Office for South  and South East Asia
(118) The Committee was informed that the Executive  Board did not recommend this resolution.  - 774 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON
(119) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) said that the proposal  had not been understood. It was aimed at stimulating  co-operation with Member States and National Com-  missions in the working out of programmes. A need  for such support was [elt by Unesco, as had been  recognized in the remodelling document. Facilities  were provided and obligations undertdken by the  Government uf India, The ingredients of interna-  tional understanding were sometimes forgotten. The  proposal should not be rejected in the name of a  slogan,
(120) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) said that about 10 offices  would be needed to carry out such work all over the  world. That involved the decentralization of Unesco,  He thercfore recommended that tne draft resolution  be referred to the working party to be set up by the  Programme and Budget Commission,
(121) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) seconded the  proposal,
(122) Mr. SOEBROTO (Indonesia) supported the  delegate of India.
(123) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) made no objection to  the proposal of the delegate of Israel, but did not  want it linked with a high-sounding word like decen-  tralization, over which misunderstandings might  arise.
(124) The proposal was adopted.  DR/12: Translat:on of Unesco Documents into  German
(125} Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) said that the  Executive Board had not recommended this resolution,  because it was already covered by project 5.1 in the  proposed programme and budget(Mass Commurication,  paragraphs 19 and 20).
(126) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director -General)drew  the Committee's attention to the fact that it was a  matter of degree. If it were thought desirable to  translate only a few documents into German, the  present budget might suffice, but beyond a certain  limit additional appropriations would be necessary,
(127) Count von HARDENBERG (German Federal  Republic) thought the meeting might be interested to  hear ‘hat the National Commissions of Austria,  Switzerland and Germany had begun discussions with  a view to co-operating in the issue of Unesco publica-  tions in German through normal channels. He had  not been able to contact the Austrian delegation before  the draft resolution had come up, but, if he under-  stood it rightly, the proposal went a good deal farther  than the existing project 5,1. He did not wish to  make it a question of prestige, but there was a dif-  ference between publications produced by the National  Commissions, and those published by Unesco itself,  such as the pamphlets on race questions. It was  always being asked what Unesco was doing, and these  publications were valuable in supplying an answer.  Count von Hardenberg therefore proposed that the  resolution should be recommended to the Secretariat  PROGRAMME     AND BUDGET Vi-19  for further study, with a view to introducing into the
1957-58 programme an allocation for Unesco publica-  tions in German. He added that there might be some  change in the point of view of his delegation, after the  Conference had discussed draft resolution No, 2.
(128) Mr. JUNANKAR (india) supported the delegate  of the Gerinan Federal Republic. It would be vorth  considering whether the 1957-58 budget could not  provide for the publication of Unesco works in many  more languages than were at present used,
(129) The proposal of the delegate of the German  Federal Republic was carried unanimously.  DR/15: "Friends of Unesco" Clubs
(130) This resolution, said Mrs. PECSON (Executive  Board), was recommended by the Executive Board.
(131) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) con-  sidered the draft resolution interesting and thought  that, if adopted, the necessary appropriations would  not exceed $500.
(132) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) pointed out  that some countries might not like specific ways of  publicizing the work of Unesco.
(133) Mr. MAHEU (Ass'stant Director-General) said  that Unesco could encourage action by the National  Commissions. For example, the Secretariat could  draw up a kind of model constitution for the formation  of new clubs, supply existing clubs with tnaterial for  information and exhibition purposes and could pass on  information about the activities of those clubs to  National Commissions inclined to experiment with  them.
(154) Mr. CABOUAT (France) announced that, in  France, there were some scores of "Friends of  Uresco' clubs which were orgamzed by educational  bodies. They arranged exhibitions and lectures, If  a handbook were brought out, it might stimulate the  work of those clubs and enable them to arrarge  international exchanges.
(135) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel), after one or two minor  drafting amendments had been suggested, proposed  that the spirit of the resolution be adopted,
(136) The proposal was adopted by 10 in favour, none  against and 1 abstention.  Document 8C/ADM/7: Adoption of Spanish as a  working language of the Executive Roard
(137) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) said that the  Executive Board had managed without Spanish so far  and, in view of budgetary stringency, he appealed to  the meeting not to press the proposal at that stage.
(138) Adopted by 5 in favour, 1 against and 4  abstentions.
(132) Speaking as Rapporteur, Mr. CABOUAT (France)  asked whether the Director-General would have the  - 7175 -   Vi-20  option of transferring the appropriations to the  Patzcuaro Centre.
(140) The CHAIRMAN said no.  Document 39 EX/5: Place and date of the ninth  session of the General Conference
(141) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) said that the  Executive Board had discussed this document in two  parts: (1) Could the new headquarters building be  finished in time for the next General Conference? The  ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON     PROGRAMME AND BUDGFT  answer was that one-third of it would be ready.
(2) Should the Organization hold its ninth General Con-  ference at its own headquarters, since it would be  celebrating (ts tenth anmiversary?
(142) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) requested that the dis-  cussion of the document be deferred until the next  meeting.
(143) Agreed.  The meeting rose at 5,50 p.m.  TWENTIETH MEETING
13 November 1954 at 10 a.m.  Chairman - Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Australia)  PLACE AND DATE OF THE MEETING OF THE NINTH  SESSION OF THF GENERAL CONFERENCE (document 39 EX/5)
(1) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) informed the Committee,  on behalf of the Indian delegation, that his country  would accept full responsibility for providing the  facilities for holding the ninth session of the General  Conference in New Delhi if the General Conference  accepted India's invitation, Adequate office accom-  modation was available in Parliament House and  sufficient accommodation would be available in  commercial hotels and government hostels for the  uelegations and members of the Conference staff.  India had extended the invitation to Unesco because it  had been felt that the time had come for international  orgamzations to carry their activities beyond their  habitual frontiers. The strength of an international  organization could not be measured in terms of money  but rather in the inspiration it invoked 1n the minds of  the masses, He could see no point in holding a con-  ference in a half-cornpleted building, and reminded  the Committee that Unesco was not made of bricks  and mortar but was in the hearts of the people. It  was important to carry Unesco as far afield as  possible. He proposed the acceptance of India's  invitation.
(2) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) recalled that  she had already given the Committee the results of  the first stages of the discussion of this matter in  the Executive Board. Continuing its discussion, the  Board had taken cognizance of the additional sum  which would be necessary if it were decided to accept  the Indian invitation, and had considered the advan-  tages accruing to Unesco in the promotion of its  programme if the ninth session were held in New  Delhi. It was clear that, if the General Conference  met in New Delhi, direct contact would be made with  the vast area of East and South East Asia. As that    area was particularly in aced of the work provided fo:  in the programme, it would give an opportunity to  more leaders to make contact with Unesco. Further,  it had been agreed that, in the past, the holding of  General Conferences away from headquarters had  proved a stimulus for action lu the countries where  they had been held; the additional expense was worth  while. The Executive Board, appreciating the  generous invitation of India and in consideration of 1ts  lovalty to Unesco 2nd faith in its programme, had  agreed to recommend the acceptance of the invitation  by the General Conference.
(3) The CHAIRMAN said that he had understood the  representative of ‘lc Director-General to say that no  extra expense would be incurred in ensuring that the  conference block of the new headquarters would be  <eady on tir in 1956, and asked 1f that was the case.
(4) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) stated  that the question where to hold the next session of the  General Conference went beyond the ccmpetence of  the Secretariat, which could do no moe than give  technical explanations, The views of the Mirector-  General were the following: (1) the construction of  the new headquarters building could not be completed  by November-December 1956; (2) it would, however,  be possible by that time to use the conference build-  ing and the wing of the main building nearest to the  conference rooms; (3) those premises could be  completed in time without additional expense.
(5) It was therefore technically possible to hold the  next session of the General Conference in Paris,  without exceeding the estimates quoted tn the  Proposed Programme and Budget for 1955-56, and  without increasing the budget for the construction of  the new buildings,
(6) Mr. SOEBROTO (Indonesia) pointed out that  - 776 -