9 November 1954 at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman: Mr GARDNER DAVIES (Australia)
(1) Opening the meeting, the CHAIRMAN announced  a change in the order of discussion in order to co-  ordinate the Committee's work with that of the  Executive Board. Instead of examining the nu w draft  resolutions submitted by delegations, the Committee  would first continue its discussion of the chapter in  the draft programme and budget relating to the  Executive Board. It would then go on to discuss the  following items: (1) decentralization; (2) the general  question of subventions; (3) draft resolutions sub-  mitied by delegations; (4) the budget balance between  the various programme chapters; and (5) the Execu-  tive Board's Report on the Remodelling of Unesco's  Future Programme.  ITEM 1.3 VF THE AGENDA: PRELMINARY CONSIDERATION OF  THE DRAFT PROGRAMME AND BUDGET FOR 1933-36. BEFORE  THE OPENING OF THE SESSION (continued)  PART ! — CHAPTER 2: EXECUTIVE BOARD (continued)  (Paragraphs 14 - 32)
(2) The Chairman recalled that the delegate of the  United States of America, seconded by the delegates  of the United Kingdom and France, had proposed that,  in order to allow for persons of the necessary calibre  to be able to attend the sessions of the Board, the  duration of these sessions be shortened and their  number per year limited to two, plus the session  held concurrently with that of tne General Conference.
(3) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive  Board) assured the Committee that the Board never  met for its pleasure, but was often obliged toexceed  two meetings a year in arder to deal with important  matters which cropped up and upon which the Director  General wanted its advice. He believed it impossible  to decide in advance exactly how many meetings  would be required in 1955-56. He recalled that the  Constitution stipulated that the Board should hold at  least two meetings a year.
(4) As a former member of the Executive Board, Mr.  SOMMERFELT (Norway) endorsed the remarks of  the Chairman of the Board,
(5) Miss LAISE (United States of America)explained  the reason for her delegation's proposal, It  was felt that the General Conference should not  refer so many administrative and financial ques-  tions to the Board, but should leave it free to  discharge its primary duty, which was to exa-  mine the Organization's programme and make  comments to the General Conference thereon. It    should be concerned with policy matters, and not  with administrative and financial details.
(6) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive  Board) remarked that the Board had made a careful  study of the possibility of lightening its task, but had  come to the conclusion that there were no questions  with which it could cease to deal, unless the General  Conference altered its resolutions. The programme  and budget were henceforth the Director-General's  responsibility, and it was not laid down in the Consti-  tution that the Board should advise him thereon, but  Sir Ronald Adam felt that the Board had been able to  give the Director-General valuable advice on the  programme during 1954, and he (Sir Ronald) would  very much regret it if the practice were discontinued,
(7) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) associated himself withthe  remarks of the delegate of Norway. He thought it  undesirable to lay down a rigid rule on the question,  He agreed that it would be well to reduce the work  falling on the Executive Board but thought that no  fixed number of meetings should be prescribed. Under  the terms of resolutions 41.122 and 41.123 of the  seventh session of the General Conference, the Board  had new responsibilities, while the extension of the  period between sessions of the Conference to two  years had increased its work in connexion with the  execution of the programme, He therefore felt that  the burden on the Board should be reduced but without  fixing a definite number of meetings per year.
(8) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) recalied that the  discussion had stemmed from budgetary considera-  tions. Agreeing with the Chairman of the Board that  it was very difficult tc decide in advance when and  how often the Board should meet, he proposed that  the budgetary provision in document 8C/5 be approved,  on the understanding that, if additional meetings of  the Board proved necessary, the requisite transfers  would be made,
(9) As the whole question was linked with the Con-  ference's decision on the United States proposal  to transform the Executive Board into a govern-  mental body, so that no final decision could be  taken for the time being, Miss LAISE (United States  of America) proposed that the Committee confine  itself to drawing the attention of the Administrative  Commission to the problem, adding that the length of  the Executive Board's sessions was having  unfavourable consequences.
(10) It was agreedto do as Miss Laise had suggested,  - 732 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  General discussion on decentralization, with particu-  lar reference to the Science Co-operat.on Offices, the  Liaison Office in New York, the Regional Office at  Havana and work with National Commissions
(11) At the CHAIRMAN's request, Sir Ronald ADAM  (Chairman of the Executive Board) gave the Board's  views on the question. The Board had in private  session discussed decentralization and methods of  stimulating National Commissions; it had reached a  conclusion on the general question of decentralization,  but had not yet considered the Indian delegation's  proposal on the subject. The majority of members  of the Board were against a decentralization of Unesco,  they were in favour of regional work through National  Commissions and experts in various parts of the  world, They were strongly against a rigid definition  of regions.
(12) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director -General)spoke  on the same lines as Sir Ronald Adam. In his view,  decentralization of activities did not necessarily in-  volve administrative decentralization, He favoured  the utmost flexibility in putting the resolutions into  effect. There were three main procedures for  achieving decentralization:
(13) (i) Experts or members of the Secretariat could  be sent out to help governments of Member States in  specific undertakings. Such missions, adapted in  their make-up to varying needs, should be on national  lines rather than "regional" in the more or less  arbitrary sense given to that term,
(14) (ii) Again, the co-operation offices could be  used as vehicles for decentralization, Those offices  were a proved success and it could be said that they  met a definite need in the present state of scientific  and technical civilization, the centres of which were  still inequitably spread throughout the world.  {15) As far as the administrative structure of the  offices Was concerned, changes were possible, as  Mr. Auger would be able to explain to the Committee,  In that connexion, Mr. Maheu instanced the Far  East and South Asia Science Co-operation Offices,
(16) The Director-General was willing to consider  other ways of making the holders of these posts more  mobile and of using them for the execution of the  programme rather than on liaison,
(17) At Havana, the Regional Office functioned on  different lines from the Science Co-operation Offices,  Its scope was comprehensive. The Director-General  hoped that the Committee would discuss this matter  exhaustively.
(18) (iii) The third procedure consisted in develop-  ing National Commissions under resolutions 7.11 and
7.12, This project had been given what was hardly  more than a token budget but nevertheless opened up  a whole range of possibilities; it was another case  in which rigid patterns would negate the objects  aimed at; much flexibility, adaptability, indeed con-  stant inventiveness were needed.
(19) As regarded, lastly, the New York Office,  its purpose was to maintain touch not with one  Member State or one group of Member States,  but with the headquarters of the United Nations.  It was not therefore concerned in the present  study of how to decentralize administratively in  carrying out the programme. Nor was it    VI-14  proposed to make any important change in the  New York Office.
(20) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) thought that the  term "decentralizution" should be more clearly de-  fined, He asked whether it was a question of  administrative geographical decentraiization, or of  decentralization o! the execution of the programme,
(21) Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive  Board) stated that the Board had taken "decentraliza-  tion" to mean the putting out of sub-branches of the  Secretariat all ov.r the world, and that was what  members of the Foard were strongly against.
(22) Mr, AVIDOHR (Israel) agreed that the problem  was how far administration should be decentralized;  Unesco's prograrnme activities obviously had to be  decentralized, .\t the present time, there were  seven administrative units outsia. Paris, and the  question was whether that policy shou be continued.  Personally, Mr, Avidor thought not, The ‘deal  would be for every Member State to have a per.~anent  delegation at Unesco headquarters and for Unesco in  have a representative in every Member State, but  until that came about, Unesco should work through  National Commissions and stimulate co-operation  between Member States, without opening new offices.  Indeed, the delegate of Israel considered that five of  he existing seven offices could well be abolished, In  setting up regional offices, the three following cri-  teria mignt be followed: (1) the office should be in a  geographical region where communications between  the various units were easy and good; (2) it should  be in a region where the Member States concerned  had strong linguistic ties and a morse or less common  cultural level; (3) it should be in a region sufficiently  far from headquarters for Unesco's influence not to  be felt without the existence of such an office. Those  conditions were not fulfilled by the offices in Delhi  and Jakarta, nor by those in Cairo and Istanbul, As  for Latin America, the Montevideo Office should  suffice, and the Havana Office could be abolished.The  delegate of Israel proposed that the Committee make  a very strong recommendation to the General Con-  ference on the lines he had suggested,
(23) Mr, SOMMERFELT (Norway) agreed with the  distinction between administrative and operational  decentralization, but he thougnt that, if the Science  Co-operation Offices were doing good work, they  should be allowed to continue, as their activities  formed part of Unesco's assistance to the less de-  veloped countries. He was also in favour of the  Office in New York. He suggested that the Secre-  tariat might be asked to make a study of the question  of administrative decentralization, and to report the  results to the ninth session of the General Conference,
(24) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) shared some of  the doubts expressed regarding the Science Co-  operation Offices; they accounted for nearly one-  third of the budget of the Department of Natural  Sciences, There was, however, another form of  decentralization which should be encouraged, and  that was through non-governmental organizations, In  his opinion, Unesco's policy of granting subventions  - 738 -   vi-14  to international non-governmental organizations should  be considered in the context of the general question of  decentralization,
(25) Mr, SOEBROTO (Indonesia) strongly defended  the Science Co-operation Offices. Although every-  thing could be done from headquarters in Paris,  distances were so great in certain cases that they  would retard and hamper the work, His delegation  would very much regret it if Unesco's offices in the  East were abclished, for they rendered invaluable  survices there,
(28) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) proposed that no hard-  and-fast recommendation be made to the General  Conference. The Committee was not representative  of all the geographical or cultural divisions of the  world and the views of many regions had not been  heard, It was not wise to generalize, Each office  had its own characteristics, and it woulda therefore be  inappropriate to adopt a firm recommendation, It was  preferable to leave the Commission free to come to  its own decision,
(27) Mr. RANIERI (Uruguay) supported the remarks  of the delegate of Mexico.
(28) Since his visit to the Liaison Office in New York,  Sir Ronald ADAM (Chairman of the Executive Board  no longer had any doubt of its utility; it did an enor-  mous amount of work, particularly in connexion with  Unesco's Gift Coupon Scheme, With regard to the  Science Co-operation Offices, it was precisely be-  cause there were no international non-governmental  organizations in certain regions that such offices  were needed, The Executive Board felt, moreover,  that the offices should not come under anyone but the  Director of the Department of Natural Sciences; no  one should intervene between Professor Auger and the  scientists working in the field, The Board had  suggested that the Delhi and Jakarta Offices be  merged at Jakarta, because India was developing its  science rapidly and could obtain help from non-  governmental organizations, whereas Indonesia could  not. With regard to the Havana Office, a member of  the Board had prepared a confidential report on it,  and it had been decided to suggest that the Secretariat  should assess the value of the office again in two  years time. After dealing with the very important  question of the remodelling of Unesco's future pro-  gramme, the Board had returned to the question of  co-operation with National Commissions, which, in  its view, were one of Unesco's greatest weaknesses,  It intended to produce a paper on ways of strengthen-  ing National Commissions, but he doubted whether  the Board would be able to finish it before the  Conference opened.
(29) Miss LAISE (United States of America) proposed  the establishment of a small working party to define  the problem and to consider the various means of  decentralizing Unesco's activities, i.e. through the  Science Co-operation Offices, the Fundamental  Education Centres, international non-governmental  organizations, National Commissions, the Liaison  Offices in Havana and New York, and the major pro-  jects in the remodelled programme. The working    ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  party would report back to the Committee, which  would include those conclusions in its own report.
(30) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) drew  the Committee's attention to the draft resolution  submitted by India on the decentralization of Unesce's  activities (8C/DR/7), That resolution asked that a  working party of the Programme and Budget Commis-  sion be set up, but if the Committee set up another  working party the latter would be covering the same  ground with al] the risk of confusion that that entailed,
(31) Mr. CABOUAT (France) felt that his own views  were very close to those of the Executive Board. In  his opinion, the problem of decentralization was a  vast one into which an enormous variety of considera-  tions entered and he thought the Executive Board had  been better placed to explore it than the workii.g party  proposed by Miss Laise would be,
(32) As Rapporteur, Mr. Cabouat therefore suggested  that the Committee in its report
(1) draw the attention of the Programme and Budget  Commission to the problem;
(2) ask the Cormmission to lay down criteria for the  evaluation of the regional offices; and
(3) recommend to the Commission the formation of  the working party suggested by the Indian delegation,
(33) The CHAIRMAN shared Mr. Maheu's misgivings  at the 1dea of having a working party at the present  stage. He thought that the Committee might limit its  action for the time being to formulating the problem.  Later, the Programme Commission might wish toask  the Committee to make a more detailed study of  certain aspects of the problem of decentralization,and  then it might be time to think about setting up a  working party.
(34) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) seconded the proposal by  the delegate of France,
(35) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) was prepared to accept  what the delegate of France proposed but was insistent  that the Committee make no firm recommendation. It  should rather confine itself to settling criteria and  general principles to guide subsequent discussions in  the Commission, where more States affected were  represented.
(36) The CHAIRMAN requested the Committee to  consider the section of the draft programme and  budget concerning Science Co-operation Offices.  Project 2.41: Science Co-operation Offices  (paragraphs 140-184)
(37) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) thought that the  project should be moved to Section 1 of the Natural  Sciences chapter, thus connectirg it directly with the  Director of the Department,
(38) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) was  anxious to remove any wrong impression in the  mind of the delegate of Egypt. The Department  of Natural Sciences comprised divisions and sections  with general responsibilities and Science Co-operation  Offices, which were the outposts of the Department at  - 734 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND “SUDGET Vi-14  regional level. Those offices were directly respon-  sible to the Director of the Department through his  deputy.
(39) To go farther and to merge the Science Co-  operation Offices in the Director's Office would  unduly burden the latter. In particular, it would  artificially increase the latter's budget by a sum  equivalent to one quarter of the total budget of the  Department,
(40) The CHAIRMAN remarked that in the Depart-  ment of Social Sciences, the co-operation posts were  included with that of the Director,
(41) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) point-  ed out that, in the Department of Social Sciences, the  whole regional co-operation staff amounted to two  persons in all, and there was no objection to their  attachment to the Office of the Director of the Depart-  ment. The reasons which had led the Secretariat to  adopt a different solution for the Department of  Natural Sciences were due to the very large numbei  of officials concerned; they had their basis in  practical considerations rather than in logic.
(42) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) accepted the  explanation for pragmatic although not for rational  purposes.
(43) Mr, AVIDOR (Israel) said it would be difficult,  after having referred the subject to the Commission,  to make any recommendation on it now, It might,  however, be possible to go through the section item  by 12m, and see if the activities could be run in each  case by momber States or from headquarters just as  cheaply.
(44) The CHAIRMAN shared the view of the delegate  of Israel, who wondered whether it might not be  better to ask Mr. Auger what activities could not be  run by Member States or headquarters.
(45) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) answered that it was indeed possible to do  everything from Paris, but, if so, results could not  be expected to be as good as under the existing  system and expenses would be higher. Not everything  could be done by letter: replies sometimes took a  long time to arrive and letters were occasionally  simply not answered.
(4€) The role of the field officials was often difficult  to describe in cut-and-dried terms but it was a very  real one. For instance, they could reach the whole  of their respective regions with little expense, From  Paris the cost of similar journeys would work out  much higher. Yet it was essential to have direct  personal contacts, since many activities owed their  success to them. For proof of that, it was only  necessary to glance over the activities attributed to  the offices abroad: thanks to those offices,scientists  in the regions served could assess the importance of  their own scientific standing, and exchanges of scien-  tific publications could be established between the  regions,
(47) The offices abroad were not an example of ad-  ministrative decentralization but of decentralization  of activities; they were administered from Paris.
(48) Mr. AVIDOR (israel) was not satisfied with that  explanation, The same could be said of other  Departments of the Secretariat.
(48) Mr, SOEBROTO (Indonesia) remarked that  science and education activities could not be pluced on  the same level, Every country had a more or less  organized educational system, through which activities  could be handled from Paris, but that did not apply to  scientific activities,
(50) Mr. BOW (Canada) shared the doubts expressed  by the delegate of Israel of the value of the regional  offices,
(51) If the Committee had not agreed to refer the  matter to the Programme and Budget Commission, he  would have proposed lowering the priority of the pro-  jects, He asked Mr, Auger whether he was convin-  ced that one-third of the budget for Natural Sciences  should go to these offices.
(52) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) explained that the co-operation offices, on  the basis proposed in the draft programme and budget,  would absorb not 30% but about 25% ofhis Department's  budget, Fuller consideration could be given to  possible changes in their activities, and some  economies, say in their staff, could be effected. But  there was little ground for hoping that the percentage  proposed could be reduced appreciably as long as 1!  was desired to maintain contacts on the existing scale,
(53) The CHAIRMAN did not consider that the de-  cision on the problem of decentralization excluded  changes in the relative priority of one part of the  programme or another,
(54) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) pointed out that  the figure of 25% for the field offices included a  number of services for other departments in Unesco  which were covered by regional offices. That should  be taken into account in discussing the proportion  between the two categories of activities,
(55) As the delegate of Canada had said, the Commit-  tee could not now take a decision on a question of  principle,
(58) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) thought that the  meeting had not had the opportunity to gain enough  real information on the regional offices, It might be  advisable to suggest that an enquiry be held by a  neutral observer unconnected with Unesco or the  Member States concerned, willing to undertake a  systematic review of the management of these offices,  before terminating an activity on which so much had  been spent.
(57) In reply to what the delegate of the United King-  dom had said, Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-  General) pointed out that extremely full details were  given in the Director-General's report. In addition,  an informatory bookiet, entitled "Science Liaison",  had recently been produced. It would be distributed  during the meeting, and Mr, Maheu hoped that the  delegates would be able to find adequate additional  information therein.  - 735 -   VI-14
(58) Regarding critical evaluation, the Secretariat  was at the disposal of delegates. He thought, how-  ever, that expert missions to evaluate the work of  offices abroad would cost money which could be  better employed in the offices themselves on pro-  gramme work, Besides, if the Committee wanted a  body independent of the Secretariat, it could always  approach the Executive Board, which met that last  requirement and whose work of supervision could be -  and was done - without extra cost.
(59) The CHAIRMAN added that the remarks made  by the Assistant Director-General could apply to any  of the evaluation projects for which the Co nmittee  had agreed to vote funds,
(60) Mr. BOW (Canada) said that it was after having  read the report of the Director-General that he had  made his remarks. He maintained that the Commit-  tee was not in a position to pronounce on the real  value of the offices. This was an example of the  evident need expressed by the delegate of Egypt for  setting up a machinery of evaluation in the Secretariat  in some form or another,
(61) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) said that his  Government had studied the projects as thoroughly as  possible, but there was a residuum of uncertainty,  and he therefore supported the delegate of Canada in  his assertion that a continuing review was necessary.
(62) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) considered the  Canadian delegate's proposal on evaluation important  from a general point of view, It was not necessarily  expensive. Auditing, for instance, could be carried  out from Paris. He was asking for evaluation in  order that the offices should be maintained, and  eventually strengthened.
(63) Miss LAISE (United States of America) sug-  gested that there should be a completely new perspec-  tive in the evaluation, in the light of the proposal to  remodel the programme. Apart from the excellent  job the offices might be making of the exchange of  scientific information, was this activity one that  Member States felt the most need of?
(64) Mr. CABOUAT (France) wished to make certain  observations on the plea by the United Kingdom dele-  gate for special evaluation machinery, In his view,  the matter was rather outside the subject under  discussion, The evaluation of activities was a nor-  mal function of the Secretariat and it was not clear  how a new service to undertake evaluation could  make an effective additional contribution. Moreover,  there would be some danger of the new service's  growing to a size which its usefulness did not warrant,
(65) It would be better to leave Member States the  responsibility of making the evaluation and forward-  ing their remarks, In any case, the Programme and  Budget Commission should be left entirely free to  settle the question,
(66) The CHAIRMAN, summing up, said there had  been two categories of remarks on the regional  offices project: (1) general remarks and proposals  linked with the problem of decentralization, which    ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  should be left to the working party; (2) interventions  that were more specifically related to the Natural  Sciences programme; Canada's proposal on the pro-  portion of the Natural Sciences budget to be devoted  to these projects; and the proposal of the United  States delegation in terms of the future development  of the programme, in relation to whether or not these  activities were needed by a Member State.
(67) Mr, SOEBROTO (Indonesia), on the resolution  that a working party should be established by the  Programme and Budget Commission which would  discuss the regional offices, requested that delegates  from the interested countries should be appointed,
(69) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General)  thought the Indonesian delegate had made a construc-  tive suggestion. He himself had no wish to intervene  on the substance of the discussion but he had twn re-  marks to make:
(1) The Committee would have noted that the  delegates of Indonesia, Uruguay and Egypt, who  represented States in whose territory Science Co-  operation Offices were in operation, had pronounced  in favour of th. maintenance of such activities.
(2) Delegates had an admirable opportunity for  assessing the work of one such Office either them-  selves or with the assistance of scientists in their  delegations: a Science Co-operation Office was  working in Montevideo itself and delegates were  cordially invited to visit it,
(70) The suggestion of the delegate of the United  States of America that some form of emulation  between the services of Unesco be instituted contained  the germ of an idea worth bearing ia mind. Member  States could be asked to comment on this point, either  through questionnaires or on the occasion of visits  paid by senior Unesco officials.
(71) Subject to more detailed study of the question,  such a proposal was quite in line with the Director-  General's views,
(72) Mr, BOW (Canada) hoped the project would not  be evaluated in terms of its value to the country in  which it was located, but in terms of the whole region,
(73) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) explained the  method of work employed by the Executive Board in  evaluating the project, It first considered the  reports presented by the Secretariat on the achieve-  ments due to the Science Co-operation Offices, and  the information received from the regions concerned.  Then members of the Executive Board from the  regions gave their own views, which made it easier  to appreciate the real value ‘of the work, and, lastly,  the Executive Board had considered the reports  brought back by the Director-General, the Ch&irman,  and members of the Board who had visited the  different regions.
(74) Mrs. Pecson gave details of the results achieved  by the Science Co-operation Office in Manila: interest  in scientific research had been accelerated, the tempo  of work for the improvement of industrialization had  been heightened, and National Science Councils had  been stimulated to produce new legislation. Work  - 7386 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VI-14  on oceanography and medicinal plants,the Pacific  Science Congress, the Humid Tropical Zones project,  irrigation systems and the propagation of increased  opportunities for earning a living were some of the  activities influenced.
(15) Mrs, Pecson added that a thorough evaluation, if  urdertaken now, would require the setting up of an  expert committee, which would involve some expense,
(76) The CHAIRMAN enquired whether the proposal  by the delegate of Egypt for granting high priority to  the project, subject to the findings of the working  party, was seconded.
(17) At the request of the delegate of Israel, the  sections were taken separately. NO comment was  made on Sections A, B and C.
(18) On Section D, Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt)  zsked for an explanation of the combination of the  two separate offices in one, in view of the Indian  celegate 's proposal about aregionaloffice in Delhi.
(19) Answering the delegate of Egypt, Mr. AUGER  (Director, Department of Natural Sciences) said that  relations between Paris and the Jakarta and Delhi  Offices respectively were direct and, as the plans  stood, would remain so.  {80) He did not think, incidentally, that if the Indian  proposal were adopted it would bring about major  alterations in the programme.
(81) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) ex-  plained that it was for reasons of economy that  consideration had been given to combining the Jakarta  and Delhi Offices.
(82) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) explained that with a budget below a certain  minimum the effectiveness of a Science Co-operation  Office diminished appreciably; it was not enough  merely to pay the salaries of the officials on the spot  for them to be able to do useful work. It was for  that reason that the appropriations had been kept at  the 1953-54 level, but spread over three offices  instead of five,
(83) The CIiAIRMAN asked the meeting to decide on  the motion presented by the delegate of Egypt to    recommend a higher priority for the project as a  whole, subject to the decision of the working party  on the question of decentralization,
(84) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) thought there had been a  motion presented by the delega:e of Canada to lower  the priority of the project, He had asked for the  project to be taken section by section, in case tae  meeting wanted to give a differnt degree of priority  to the different sections,
(85) Mr. BOW (Canada) explained that he had not  formally made that proposal, as he had not wanted to  trespass on the ground of the working party, but he  now proposed the lower priority, on the understanding  that the offices wouid not be immediately eliminated,  before any evaluation had been made,
(86) Mr, CABOUAT (France) doubted the appro-  priateness of taking a vote at that stage. He appealed  to the delegates of Egyptand Canada to withdraw  their motions, the upshot of which might be the  climination of an administrative organ - something  the Committee had not yet done.
(87) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) withdrew his  proposal to raise the priority of the project.
(88) Mr. BOW (Canada) withdrew his proposal to  lower the priority of the project.
(89) Miss LAISE (United States of America), referring  to the remarks made by the Assistant Director-  General, expressed the interest of her delegation in  any machinery that might be set up to evaluate the  relative merits of the different services of Unesco  from the point of view of Member States. She also  appreciated the invitation to see the field office in  Montevideo.  Project 3.01: Social Science Co-operation Offices
(90) Paragraphs 16-24 were approved without  discussion,  The meeting rose at 6,45 p.m.  - 737 -