Vi-20  option of transferring the appropriations to the  Patzcuaro Centre.
(140) The CHAIRMAN said no.  Document 39 EX/5: Place and date of the ninth  session of the General Conference
(141) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) said that the  Executive Board had discussed this document in two  parts: (1) Could the new headquarters building be  finished in time for the next General Conference? The  ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON     PROGRAMME AND BUDGFT  answer was that one-third of it would be ready.
(2) Should the Organization hold its ninth General Con-  ference at its own headquarters, since it would be  celebrating (ts tenth anmiversary?
(142) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) requested that the dis-  cussion of the document be deferred until the next  meeting.
(143) Agreed.  The meeting rose at 5,50 p.m.  TWENTIETH MEETING
13 November 1954 at 10 a.m.  Chairman - Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Australia)  PLACE AND DATE OF THE MEETING OF THE NINTH  SESSION OF THF GENERAL CONFERENCE (document 39 EX/5)
(1) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) informed the Committee,  on behalf of the Indian delegation, that his country  would accept full responsibility for providing the  facilities for holding the ninth session of the General  Conference in New Delhi if the General Conference  accepted India's invitation, Adequate office accom-  modation was available in Parliament House and  sufficient accommodation would be available in  commercial hotels and government hostels for the  uelegations and members of the Conference staff.  India had extended the invitation to Unesco because it  had been felt that the time had come for international  orgamzations to carry their activities beyond their  habitual frontiers. The strength of an international  organization could not be measured in terms of money  but rather in the inspiration it invoked 1n the minds of  the masses, He could see no point in holding a con-  ference in a half-cornpleted building, and reminded  the Committee that Unesco was not made of bricks  and mortar but was in the hearts of the people. It  was important to carry Unesco as far afield as  possible. He proposed the acceptance of India's  invitation.
(2) Mrs. PECSON (Executive Board) recalled that  she had already given the Committee the results of  the first stages of the discussion of this matter in  the Executive Board. Continuing its discussion, the  Board had taken cognizance of the additional sum  which would be necessary if it were decided to accept  the Indian invitation, and had considered the advan-  tages accruing to Unesco in the promotion of its  programme if the ninth session were held in New  Delhi. It was clear that, if the General Conference  met in New Delhi, direct contact would be made with  the vast area of East and South East Asia. As that    area was particularly in aced of the work provided fo:  in the programme, it would give an opportunity to  more leaders to make contact with Unesco. Further,  it had been agreed that, in the past, the holding of  General Conferences away from headquarters had  proved a stimulus for action lu the countries where  they had been held; the additional expense was worth  while. The Executive Board, appreciating the  generous invitation of India and in consideration of 1ts  lovalty to Unesco 2nd faith in its programme, had  agreed to recommend the acceptance of the invitation  by the General Conference.
(3) The CHAIRMAN said that he had understood the  representative of ‘lc Director-General to say that no  extra expense would be incurred in ensuring that the  conference block of the new headquarters would be  <eady on tir in 1956, and asked 1f that was the case.
(4) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) stated  that the question where to hold the next session of the  General Conference went beyond the ccmpetence of  the Secretariat, which could do no moe than give  technical explanations, The views of the Mirector-  General were the following: (1) the construction of  the new headquarters building could not be completed  by November-December 1956; (2) it would, however,  be possible by that time to use the conference build-  ing and the wing of the main building nearest to the  conference rooms; (3) those premises could be  completed in time without additional expense.
(5) It was therefore technically possible to hold the  next session of the General Conference in Paris,  without exceeding the estimates quoted tn the  Proposed Programme and Budget for 1955-56, and  without increasing the budget for the construction of  the new buildings,
(6) Mr. SOEBROTO (Indonesia) pointed out that  - 776 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VI- 20  the General Conferences had been held five times in  Europe, once in the Middle East, once in Central  America, and once in Latin America, In his opinion,  a General Conference should be held in Asia in order  that more could be learned about it in that part of the  world. He seconded the proposal by the delegate of  India.
(7) Miss LAISE (United Siates of America) said tiat  the United States delegation was, in principle, not in  favour of holding General Conferences away from  headquarters, The General Conference was a  business meeting, at which matters of policy and  finance were discussed and, 1f considered as such,  the only factors to be taken into account when discus-  sing the place of meeting should be the advantages to  the interests of Unesco and to the area in which it was  proposed to meet. If the Committee felt that it was  preferatle, in the interests of Unesco, to hold à  General Conference away from isadquarters rather  than use the additional money required for such a  conference for implementing the programme, she  was perfectly willing to give the matter further con-  sideration, She hoped that her remarks would in no  way be interpreted as showing a lack of appreciation  for the very gracious in*:tation extended by India, but  she could not support the proposal to accept the  invitation,
(8) Mr. FLORKIN (Belg.um) drew attention to the  considerable advantages of holding sessions of the  General Conference at Unesco headquarters. [If he  remembered rightly, it had been decided to hold  every other session at headquarters, and he could  see no reason why that principle should not prevail.  He wished to make 1t clear, however, that he fully  recognized the desirability of holding the General  Conference in India, as no session had hitherto been  held in Asia. Since, however, the extra expense was  liable to upset the balance of the budget for the  financial period 1955-56, he would prefer the 1956  session to be held at headquarters.
(9) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) said that in the  nast the British delegation had opposed the holding of  General Conferences outside headquarters. In the  present case, however, he thought that the invitation  should be accepted because there were doubts about  the readiness of the new headquarters building.  Sooner or later a General Conference would have to  be held in Asia and, in the circumstances, he thought  that the General Conference would be justified in  accepting with a clear conscience.
(10) Mr. SILLER (Mexico) was in favour of accepting  the Ind:an Government's invitation, since it was  desirable to make the general public everywhere  familiar with Unesco's work and that aim would  become more attainable if sessions of the General  Conference were held in various parts of the world.  Mexico was one of the countries where the work of  Unesco was best known to the people, and that was  unquestionably due to the fact that the General Con-  ference had met in 1947 in Mexico City.Only the day  before, in Montevideo, he had been impressed by the  public's enthusiastic participation in the solemn  opening ceremony of the present Conference.
(11) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) said that the present  invitation had been extended with the full support of the  Government and people of India. It was not certain  that the invitation would be renewed after the next  general election in India.
(12) He did not agree with the United States delegate  that the General Conference was merely a business  meeting. Its real function was to pe the nerve centre  of international life.
(13) He stressed the point made by the Indonesian  delegate that more should be learned about Asia,  pointing out that in that area a vast section of  humanity lived under conditions which needed rapid  improvement. By holding its next session in Asia,  the General Conference would have a better view of  the problems confronting Asia. Unesco would have  the opportunity of stimulating interes: and of obtaining  the support of governments, National Commissions  and the peoples of the world.
(14) Mr. SOEBROTO (Indonesia), in answer to the  remarks made by the Belgian de!rgate, remarked that  the General Conferences of 1951 and 1952 had been  held in Paris. If the policy of holding alternative  conferences in Paris was being adhered to, the  balance could be rectified by accepting the invitation  of India even though it meant holding two consecutive  conferences outside headquarters. Secondly, he did  not see that the di ance to be travelled to conferences  was of much consequence, Wherever conferences  were held, some delegations woula nave to travel  great distances. Thirdly, he asked how much money  would be saved by the cutting down and deferring of  projects until 1957-58.
(15) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) explained that he had  not been referring to the expenses borne by the various  delegations, but only to the costs chargeable to the  Unesco budget. The new premises had been con-  Structed in Paris with the specific aim of holding  sessions of the General Conference regularly in that  city, while respecting the principle of "alternation"  and ensuring that the balance of the budget was  maintained.
(16) Mr. CABOUAT (France) stated that his delega-  tion aiso appi oved the principle of holding sessions  away from headquarters at regular intervals, and  fully agreed that one of the next sessions of the  General Conference should be held in an Asian  country. He could not, however, subscribe to the  view that, if the next session were held in Paris,  additional expenses would inevitably be incurred. The  statement of the Assistant Director-General had been  extremely precise, and Mr. Cabouat, for one, had no  reason to doubt it in any way. Given the fac. that  large amounts were being spcat in order to build the  new premises in Paris, and that the next ses-  sion of the General Conference could be held at  headquarters without exceeding the present budget  estimates, nothing seemed to justify abandonment  of the principle of alternation on which there  had so jar been tacit agreement. In his  opinion, every other session of the General  Conference should be held at headquarters,  unless some overriding factor made it ne-  cessary to depart from that rule.  - 777 -   Vi-20 ADVISORY COMUITTEHE ON
(17) Miss LAISE (United States of America) asked  what the additional cost ol holding the General Con-  ference in India would be, if Russian were adopted as  a working language.
(18) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Programme  and Budget) said that the additional cost of the  General Conference, 'f held 11. India and if Russian  were adopted as a working language, would be  $141,350, whereas, if the Conference were held in  Paris with Russian as a working language, the  additional cost would be $100,750. If Unesco did not  move to its new headquarters in 1956, there would be  a saving of $30,000 on the estimate for 1956,
(19) Miss LAISE (United States of America) asked  for the Secretariat's comment on whether the change  in time for holding the General Conference from the  spring to November had created difficuities in  matters of co-ordination.
(20) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) stated  that the matter was entirely unrelated to the question  of where to hold the ninth session of the General Con-  ference. Ou the problem of co-ordinating Unesco  Conferences with meetings of other United Nations  agencies, the advantage of holding the General  Conference in the spring would be that delegates  would be informed of the results of the United Nations  Genera! Assembly held at the end of each year. On  the other hand, if that were decided, 1t would mean  that Unescu Conferences would coincide with those of  the other Specialized Agencies, and their program-  mes and that of Unesco had several items in common.  The Secretariat would therefore leave it to the  General Conference to decide whether it was better  for Unesco to follow its mother or its sisters.
(21) In view of the fact that it would be possible to  hold the following session of the Conference at head-  quarters without additional expense, Mr. FLORKIN  (Belgium) moved that the Committee recommend that  the ninth session meet in Paris, at the same time  expressing the hope that the subsequent session would  be held in New Delhi.
(22) Mr. CABOUAT (France) seconded that proposal.
(23) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdo:a) reminded the  Committee that, according to what the Indian delegate  had said, it was not certainthat the Indian Government  would renew its invitation to Unesco.
(24) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) drew attention to the  fact that the Indian delegation's proposal was in fact  an amendment to that included in the Proposed Pro-  gramme and Budget for 1955-56. It should therefore  be pur to the vote oefore the Belgian proposal, which  did not alter the proposed programme and budget atalL
(25) The CHAIRMAN took a vote on the proposal of  the Indian del=gation, seconded by Messrs.SOEBROTO  (Indonesia) and SILLER (Mexico).
(26) The proposal was adopted by 7 votes to 3,  with 3 abstentions.  PROGRAMME     AND B''DGET
(27) It was therefore agreed to insert in the Com-  mittee's report a recommendation that the Indian  Government's invitation be accepted.
(28) Miss LAISE (United States of America) said that,  if the Invitation were accepted by the General Con-  ferenge, she would like to propose that the Committee  recommend that, in the future, Unesco should adopt  the policy of the World Health and Food and Agriculture  Organizations andonly agree to holding General Con-  ferences outside headquarters if the host country were  prepared to pay for the additional cost.
(29) Mr. ABDEL-RAHMAN (Egypt) pointed out that it  was important to remember, when comparing Unesco  to the World Health Organization or the Food and  Agriculture Organization, that the latter organizations  followed a policy of ragionalim. The effect for these  two organizations of following that policy was the  same as that which Unesco would procure by holding  its General Conference in different parts of the world.
(30) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) supported the  United States proposal, He thought that the delegate  of Egypt had made a very important point and sug-  gested that, as a working party had been set up on  decentralization, the Committee could refer the  question of the site of the General Conferences to it  and draw its attention to the possibility of developing  the idea expressed by Mr. Abdcl-Rahman. He did not  think that it was essential to discuss the United States  proposal at that stage and proposed that discussion  should be deferred.
(31) The CHAIRMAN having asked whether the pro-  posal was to allow the working party to study the’  matter and report directly to the Admimstrative  Commission, Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) replied  in the affirmative.
(32) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) said that the United States  proposal amounted to a proposal to change Rule 2 of  the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference.
(33) Miss LAISE (United States of America) replied  that it was not agaist the Rules of Procedure to  establish policy.
(34) Mr. MAHL U (Assistant Director-General) stated  that he entirely shared the views of the Umited States  delegate. It would be & question of taking a general  policy decision, within the terms of which the Execu-  tive Board would continve to exercise the powers  granted to it under Rule 2 of the Rules of Procedure.
(35) The Committee agreed to forward the United  States proposal to the working party on decentraliza-  tion with a request that it should study the question  and report its conclusiors direct to the Administrative  Commission.
(36) Mr. JUNANKAR (India) feared that the United  States proposal amounted to an amendment to the  Rules of Procedure and that the Administrative  Commission would not be competent to make  recommendations concerning it.  - 778 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON
(37) The CHAIRMAN considered that 1t was clear that,  even if the proposal were adopted by the Administra-  tive Commission, it would be given the status of a  policy directive to the Director-General. The Execu-  tive Board could then make recommendations in the  light of that directive. In his opinion, it did not  constitute 2 change in the Rules of Procedure. In any  case, the General Conference had the power to amend  the Rules of Procedure at its present session.  ITEM 7.2 OF THE AGENDA PRELIMINARY CONSIDERATION  OF THE DRAFT PROGRAMME AND BUDGET FOR 1953-36  (continued)  EDUCATION (continued)  International Educational Development Fund (docu-  ment 8C/5, paragraphs 143-148)
(38) In reply to 3 question from the CHAIRMAN, Mr.  MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) explained that  a draft resolution had been prepared by the Secretariat  on the lines requested by the United States delcgation  The Secretariat had nevertheless felt that it could  submit a fresh text to the Committee, During the  last meeting of the Administrative Committee on Co-  ordination, held in New York in October, the  Director-General had succeeded in securing his col-  leagues* approval of the statement contained in the ’  Committee's report to the Economic and Social  Council. If the General Conference felt able to  endorse the statement, 1t would certainly enhance the  latter's value in the eyes of members of the Economic  and Social Council. The statement contained the  following points:
(1) It was recalled that both the Economic and  Social Council and Unesco recognized the development  of free and compulsory primary education as a  priority field of action.
(2) The guiding principles of Unesco's programme  in that field were set forth.
(3) Emphasis was laid on the great financial dif-  ficulties hindering the exicusii.. ~f free and compul-  sory education, and onthe urgent need for international  financial assistance. Such assistance presupposed  concerted action by the United Nations and Specialized  Agencies, It was only if such action failed to be  taken that Unesco might act independently.
(39) By approving that statement, the General Con-  ference would be defining Unesco's general policy in  that field for several years to come. It would  strengthen the Director-General's position in his  relations with the other Specialized Agencies. Finally  it would explain clearly to the general public what  Unesco's opinion was on that subject.
(40) Mr. FLORKIN (Bcigium) asked if the Secretariat  would arrange for the document mentioned by the  Assistant Director-General to be distributed.
(41) Mr. LEE (United States of America) wished to  know if the text to which the Assistant Director-  General had referred was a work plan or a draft re-  solution. In his opinion, it should be either a work  plan or an amendment to a draft resolution, since the  Secretariat could not propose new draft resolutions.    PROGRAMME AND BUDGET VI-20
(42) Mr. ELVIN (Director, Department of Education)  said that it would be more appropriate to keep that  question in the form of à resolution to guide the  Director-General and that no further work plan would  be needed. The proposed project coula be limited to  the total of $2,900 foreseen in the Department's  programme,
(43) The Committee agreed to ask the Secretariat to  prepare a draft for consideration by the Committee at  its afternoon meeting.  DR/63: Unesco Publication on Mickiewicz
(44) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) ex-  plained that the Executive Board had not had time to  study the proposal and he did not think that it antici-  pated being able to do so within the next day ur so.  Moreover, the General Committee had taken no  decision in regard to it. The proposal was to issue  a publication in commemoration of the Polish poet  Adam Mickiewicz; the Secretariat, however, had not  yet been able to study the proposal or to draw up the  necessary budget estimates.
(45) Mr. LEE (United States of America) asked  whether, under the Rules of Procedure, resolutions  received after the deadline date could be considered
(46) The CHAIRMAN said that technically it was not  possible under the Rules of Procedure, The General  Committee, however, had allowed those in question to  be accepted for consideration as an exception.
(47) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) em-  phasized the fact that the General Committee could not  take any decision in the matter; 1t could only make  recommendations to the appropriate orga .s of the  Conference,
(48) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) recalled that it was  always possible, during the first seven days of the  session, to submit proposals unlikely to involve any  large increase in the budget estimates. The point  was whether the proposal concerned would involve  such an increase,
(49) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) re-  plied that the time-limait for the submission of draft  resolutions with important budgetary implications had  expired on 3 November. Document 8C/DR/63  appeared to come into that category.
(50) At the CHAIRMAN's request, Mr. SKENAZI  (Secretary) read out paragraphs 2 and 3 of Rule 78 of  the Rules of Procedure.
(51) The Committee agreed to a proposal of the  Chairman that the resolutions be considered with the  second category of resolutions, namely, those having  no or slight budgetary implications.
(52) The CHAIRMAN reminded the Committee that it  had reached certain conclusions with regard to the  programme and had allocated high priority or low  priority to some projects, left others without priority  and suppressed some. In addition, it had recommended  - 779 -   VvI-20 ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROGRAMME AND BUDGET  the retention of certain proposed resolutions and their  budgetary implications. He called upon the Assistant  Director-General to inforin the Committee what the  total budgetary implications were under the various  categories.
(53) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) drew  up the following table of the budgetary implications of  ihe decisions hitherto adopted by the Committee:  I. Projects given lower priority:
2. Activities proposed for deletion or postpone-  ment to the financial pertod 1957-58:
3. Activities granted high priority:
1956 . . . . 2 200 .…. Cee es $241,059. --
4. Projects recommended for implementation if  sufficient furds became available. (Two such cases  appeared in the minutes, but the Secretariat was not  certain what the Committee's intentions really were):
5. New projects to he added to the 1955-56  programme:
6. Organization of the ninth session of the General  Conference in New Delhi: $314,042, --  From that amc int was to be deducted the $ 30,000  mentioned at the beginning of the meeting, leaving:  $284,042,
(54) Two items were still outstanding, namely, the  adoption of Russian as a working language (8C/DR/2)  and the establishment of a regional office for Asia
(8C/DR/14), The latter document would be referred  to the working party on decentralization.
(55) Miss LAISE (United States of America) asked  whether the sum of $30,000 which would be saved if  Unesco did not move to its new headquarters in 1956  should be deducted from the estimate for holding the  ninth session of the General Conference in New Delhi.  In her opinion, that was not the correct place to make  the deduction as the sum referred to the programme  of the Headquarters Committee.
(56) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) was  entirely of Miss Laise's opinion. The $30,000 had  nothing to do with the budget of the General Confer-  ence. The amount represented a saving made onthe  total budget.
(87) Mr. CABOUAT (France) pointed out that the  sum would in any case eventually be spent. There  was no question of any final saving.
(58) Miss LAISE (United States of America) asked  whether the sum of $30,000 represented a net figure,  There would be a sloping off of expenses 1n connex:on    with the withdrawal from the old premises but it could  not be assumed that the move to the new headquarters  would not take place at the end of 1956.
(59) Mr. RAO (Acting Chief, Bureau of Programme  and Budget) repiied that the $30,000 repre.cnted a net  figure.
(60) Mr. CABOUAT (France) recalled that the Com-  mittee 1ad taken note of the request of the Director of  UNRWA reported to it by the Director-General, It  had been proposed, if budgetary reductions permitted,  to allocate a sum of $25,000 in 195: and $26,000 in
1956 for the recruitment of the three specialists  requested.
(61) The CHAIRMAN suggested that the Committee  consider that proposal at the present meeting. Funds  were available from cuts in the budget and it was  therefore appropriate to Inciude those projects in the  programme without an allocation of priority. The  amounts allocated to the two projects would be  deducted from the total amounts available from the  projects which had been suppressed.
(62) Mr. CABOUAT (France) thought that the Com-  mittee might recommend the insertion of the two  amounts in the category of new proposils, among  those made by the Director-General.
(63) The CHAIRMAN said that it was not really a  proposal from the Director-Gen2ral, but rather a  proposal from. the Committee. He suggested that it  should be treated in the same way as the proposal  concerning the Educational Development Fund.
(64) Mr. LEE (United States of America) thought that  the action taken by the Committee indicated their  belief that the project should be given a low priority.  He proposed its transfer to the lower priority category.
(65) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) ex-  plained that in fact the Director-General was not at  present making any new proposals, although he  reserved the right to do so subsequently. However,  he could not overlook the fact that the Committee had  recommended certain cuts.
(66) The CHAIRMAN said that the Committee could  not consider proposals not yet made. He thought that  it would be in order to the Committee to delete the  amounts of $25,000 for 1955 and $26,000 for 1956  from the totals given by Mr, Maheu.
(67) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) sug-  gested that the Committee should not discuss the  proposal at the present stage and agreed that the  amounts of $25,000 and $26,000 could be deleted  from the totals he had quoted to the Committee.
(64) The Committee agreed to return to the question  at its afternoon meeting.
(69) Mr. CABOUAT (France) said that, even so, he  intended to mention the matter in his draft report, in  order to avoid a further discussion vhen the report  came up for study. He would use the following wording  - 780 -   ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON  "The Director-General has stated that, 1f funds be-  come available as a resv}t of reductions in the budget  estimates, he reserves the right to request the  General Conference to :pprove an appropriation of  $25,000 in 1955 and of $26,000 in 1956 for the  recruitment of these three specialists”,
(10) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) raised the  question of the proposed subvention to the World  Council for the Welfare of the Blind (cf.8C/BUD/SR. 13.  The Councii would require help for a period after  taking over from the World Braille Council, but no  information had been available as to how much  assistance would be required.
(71) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) said  that the Secretariat had indced received a request  from the Council concerned. It wes not owing to  lack of rrformation that no contract had been pi oposed.  PROGRAMME AND BUDGET     VI-21
(72?) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) asked 1f the Se-  cretariat could tell the Committee the amount being  requested by the World Council for the Welfare of  the Blind.
(73) Mr. DESJARDINS (Department of Mass Com-  munication) replied that the Council had asked for  a sum of $5,000 in 1955 and $5,000 to be given in  the form of contracts for the following year,
(74) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) proposed that  the sum of $2,500 be allocated for the purpose of  granting a subvention to the World Council for the  Welfare of the Blind.
(75) Agreed.  The meeting rose at 12.45 p.m.  TWENTY - FIRST MEETING
13 November 1954 at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman : Mr. GARDNER DAVIES (Australia)  PROPOSED PROGRAMME AND BUDGET FOR 1933-36 PART IV:  COMMON SERVICE COSTS — 6. STAFF WELFARE AND  TRAINING PROGRAMME
(1) Mr. FARR (Chief, Rureau of Personnel and  Management), invited to explain what the practice was  in other Specialized Agencies with regard to the pay-  ment of salaries to the secretaries fi staff associa-  tions, said that, as far as he knew, only the United  Nations and Unesco palu such salaries, the United  Nations providing a secretary at a senior level in the  General Service category (Grade F in Unesco  terminology), while Unesco provided one in Grade E.  In Unesco, that had keen the practice since 1948.  Hitherto, the same person had acted as secretary to  the Staff Association and also to the Appeals Board,  since in the latter capacity she was not likely to be  occupied for more than about two months in the year.  In (c) on page 227 provision was made for someone to  replace her as secretary to the Staff Association  when she was so engaged. The Director-General  was dissatisfied with the arrangement and intended to  allot responsibility for the Appeals Board to a  separate secretzry from within the Secretariat.
(2) Mr. COWELL (United Kingdom) felt that, since  Unesco was the only Specialized Agency to pay such  salaries, it was difficult for the Committee whole-  heartedly to endors. the practice. All it could do  was to say in its report that, since such salaries had  been paid over a period of several years, the  Committee felt unable to recommend a change.
(3) Mr, SOMMERFELT (Norway) said that the pay-  ment of such salaries was not in accordance with the  traditions of the northern countries; the Committee  should state in its report that it found the practice  unusual,
(4) The CHAIRMAN suggested that, in its report, the  Committee should draw attention to the fact that  Unesco was the only Specialized Agency to pay such  salaries, but that, since those salaries had been paid  over a period of years, the Committee felt that no  comments were appropriate,
(5) Miss LAISE (United States of America), agreeing  with the delegate of Norway, thought that it was dif-  ficult to draw an analogy between the United Nations  Staff Association and that of Unesco, and proposed  that the Committee recommend deletion of the item in  question,
(6) This proposal, seconded by the delegates of the  German Federal Republic and of Canada, was put to  the vote and adopted by 6 votes to 3, with 2 abstentions.  Education, paragraphs 143-146: International  Educational Development Fund
(7) Mr. MAHEU (Assistant Director-General) read  out two draft resolutions which he submitted for the  consideration of the Committee.
(8) The first related to the possible establishment of  a United Nations Fund fur Economic Development,from  - 781 -