26 November 1954 at 10.30 a.m.  Chairman: Mr  DRAFT AMENDMENTS TO ARTICLE Vv, PARAGRAPH 9, AND  ARTICLE VI, PARAGRAPH 3, OF THE CONSTITUTION,  PROPOSED BY THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL (documents 8C/ ADW 2  and 8C/ADM/2, Add.1)
(1) The CHAIRMAN invited the Committee to  consider item 9.3. 2 of the revised agenda dealing  with amendments to Articles V and VI of the  Constitution, and requested the representative of  the Director-General to introduce the question.
(2) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) recalied that item
9.3. 2 dealt with a question which had been discussed  in a general way; the solution proposed in the  documents had been approved in principle by the  Administrative Commission. The system at present  in force needed standardizing.
(3) Under the present provisions of the Constitution  the Director-General had to draw up one report  covering the activities of the Organization between  sessions of the Conference and another relating to  the activities of the Organization during years when  the Conference did not meet. Those reports had to  be submitted to the Board, which could make  comments on them,
(4) The Board had considered it materially impossible  to examine reports to be sent to Member States  during years when no session was held, and to  respect tlie proposed time-limits for despatch. That  being so, it had heen proposed that the Director-  General should draw up a report every year on the  activities of the Organization from 1 January to 31  December; such reports would bé sent direct to  Member States without passing through the Board.
(3) The Board, on the other hand, would draw up  and submit to the General Conference at each of the  latter's ordinary sessions, its comments on the  annual reports drawn up by the Director-General  since the preceding session and on any interim report  which had had to be made to cover the activities of  the Organization during the first months of the year  in which an ordinary session was held.
(6) With regard to the amendments proposed by the  delegation of the Union of South Africa (document
8C/ADM/2 Add. 1), the representative of the  Director-General stated that there was no reason  why the first amendment (amendment to paragraph 9  of Article V) should not be adopted; i.e. delete the  words "since the last ordinary session of the  Conference" and substitute "which he is required to  prepare in terms of Article VI, paragraph 3".
(7) Withregardtothe secondamendment, Mr. Saba  saw no reasonfor deleting the words "if necessary" in  paragraph 3 of Article VI, as the need for aninterim  report depended upon the exact date of the session.    . AWAD (Egypt)
(8) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) wished to know if,  under the new provisions, the annual reports by the  Director-General would or would not be checked by  the Executive Board, and what the Board's rôle would  be in its relations with the Director-General when he  sent out his report. If that point were not cleared up,  it would seem that the Board would only be able to  make its comments every two years,
(9) Such comments required an examination of the  Director -General's reports and therefore implied a  certain check on them.
(10) The delegate of Greece concluded by stating that  the Executive Board, whose task it was to supervise  the execution of the programme adopted by the General  Conference, must be able to make its comments on the  Director General's annual report.
(11) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) pointed out that the  Executive Board would not be thereby deprived of its  supervisory function, which extended to the whole of  Unesco's activities between sessions of the General  Conference. All that would be affected would be the  dates for drawing up the reports and the dates on  which the Board would make its comments, Moreover,  the proposal under examination had been made by the  Executive Board and the Board would comment on the  annual reports.
(12) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) observed that it was  the Executive Board which submitted the Director-  General's report to the General Conference, with or  without comments. In the years between Conferences  the Executive Board had theretofore communicated  the report to Member States and enclosed its  comments, if it so desired. As now proposed, it was  the Director-General who both drew up the report and  circulated it to Member States. It could be agreed  that he would communicate his report to the Executive  Board, as well as to Member States, but he would not  wau for a session of the Board before sending it to  the various governments.
(13) It was therefore not only a question of correcting  the former text but of introducing new ideas into it,
(14) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) observed that the  amendments submitted were the result of the Executive  Board's deliberations and seemed to reflect the wishes  of the General Conference. He recalled that, under  the current provisions, the comments made by the  Executive Board on reports submitted during years  when no ordinary session was held had to deal  particularly with the activities to be undertaken by  Unesco during the ensuing twelve months. In point of  fact, when the two-year principle had been adopted,  there had been no question of fixing an exact time  - 888 -   LEGAL COMMITTEE  schedule for executing a programme which was  thenceforth to be carried out over two years. At  that time it had been thought advisable for the  Director -Generz1 and the Board to draw up that  schedule during the two-year period and that  Member States should receive information and  comments from the Board concerning activities  proposed for the second year, However, the General  Conference had decided, upon the proposal of the  Administrative Commission, that the draft two-year  budget should be divided into annual sections and  should include a time-schedule of the Organization's  activities, That meant that the General Conference  had in advance all necessary information concerning  proposed activities,
(15) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that different reports  were involved: (1) the Director-General's report, on  the Organization's activities since the holding of the  last Conference, referred to in the amendment to  Article V, paragraph 9; (2) a report on the  Organization's activities covering the period
1 January-31 December each year, mentionedin the  amendment to Article VI, paragraph 3; and (3) a  report, "if necessary" to cover the period following  the preceding General Conference; that third report  was mentioned in the last sentence of the amendment  to Article VI, paragraph3, The Chairman suggested  that the Committee might consider the relative  positions of those various reports.
(16) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) explained his point of  view; the Director-General's report had to be  circulated to Member States as soon as 1t was  printed, i.e. without awaiting the next session of  the Executive Board. But the report, once printed,  had to be communicated to the Executive Board at its  next session so that the Board might study it. Mr.  Haguiwara suggested that the words "shall communi-  cate to Member States’ should be followed by "and  to the Executive Board" in the proposed text of  paragraph 3 Article VI. As the Director-General  always sent his report to Board members, that  addition could be considered as no more than a  drafting change.
(17) Mr. CABOUAT (France) wished to clarify the  Committee's deliberations. He thought that the  Committee should not be more royalist than the king  in opposing the proposal made by the Executive Board  itself. For that reason the delegation of France was  in favour of the proposed amendments.
(18) He raised the question of the number of reports  which the Director-General should draw up. If the  Conference adopted the proposed amendment, it  seemed that between the eighth and ninth sessions  of the General Conference the Director-Generai  would have to prepare and distribute three reports:
(1) from the end of the session to the end of the  year;
(2) for the year in which there was no session;
(3) for the period between 1 January and the  beginning of a new session of the General Conference  for the year in which the General Conference met.
(19) Mr. PAGE (Canada) assumed that there would  be no period of the Organization's activities which    VIil-4  would not be covered by a report and upon which the  Executive Board would not be able to comment. If  that were so, his delegation proposed that the  amendments under discussion should be adopted. As  long as the implications of paragraph 9 of Article V  were kept in mind, the authority of the Executive  Board would be safeguarded without any increase in  administration.
(20) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) considered the  Committee's discussion to be very useful.
(21) The proposed amendments would in no way  prejudice the Executive Board's right to make  comments. It was a question not only of commutucat-  ing reports to Member states and the Executive Board  but also of relieving the Board of the duty of  communicating them to Member States.
(22) There was one report every year which was  called the annual report. There might also be an  interim report covering that part of the year previous  to a session of the Conference.
(23) Mr. SIMSARIAN (United States of America) agreed  with the remarks made by Mr. Saba. It inust be made  clear that no repetition of reporting was contemplated. A  satisfactor, solution might be found on the basis of the  proposal submitted by the UnitedKingdom delegation in  the Administrative Commision, tothe effect that the  Constitution should contain only à statement af the prin-  ciple involvedandthatthe = ‘ziled references to the  matter on which reports shc |. be submitted should be  made the subject of a serarate resolution. The general  principle couldbe includedin the Constitutioninthe form  of the first sentence of paragraph 9 of Article V; the  detailed procedure could then be made the subi-.> ~~ a  separate resolution basedon the amendment to paragraph
3 of Article VI, on the following lines:  "The General Conference decides,  That the Director-General shall prepare and  communicate to Member States a report on the  activitie, of the Organization covering the period  from 1 January to 31 December of each year, In  those years during which the General Conference  shall mect in ordinary session, the Director-General  shall prepare, if necessary, a report covering the  activities of the Organization from the end of the  preceding year. As contemplated under Article V,  par, raph 9, the Chairman of the Executive Board  shall present, on behalf of the Board, to each  ordinary session of the General Conference, with or  without comments, the above report of the  Director-General."
(24) The last sentence would show that only the  reports already contemplated would be submitted to  the General Conference, and that the Director-  General would not be required to prepare any others.
(25) Mr. WEST (United Kingdom) thanked the United  States representative for his support of the United  Kingdom prcposal. He fully agreed with his views.
(28) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) expressed doubts  concerning the Executive Board's future powers. In  the past it had not represented Member States; if it  had made no objection to the adoption of the resolution  submitted to the Committee, there were particular  reasons for it. Thenceforth members of the new  - 889 -   viii-4  Executive Board would renresent the governments of  Member Staces and the situation might be entirely  different.
(27) The delegate of Greece wondered whether the  adoption cf the proposed text would not diminish the  Executive Board's authority by establishing a direct  link hetween the Secretariat a d Member States  without the Evecutive Board being able every year,  to make its opinion heard.
(28) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) suggested that the  United States proposal be adopted but would  recommend use of the word “reports”,
(29) Mr. BAUGNIET (Belgium}, speaking in the  name of his delegation and not as Rapporteur,  disapproved of tha United States proposa’, explaining  that in his view the Director-General's ruport was a  juridical obligation and that the statutory text  establishing it must specify now often it should be  submitted. He did not think that the new draft of  Article VI in accordance with the Director-General's  proposa! could be altered frequently and considered  that the proposal made for stability.
(30) Mr. CA3OUAT (France) asked the Cominittee  to come to à 'ecision so as to shorten the ‘debate.
131) Mr. WEST (United Kingdom) pointed out that the  oroposcl to adopt a resr'ution rather than to amend  Article VI of the Constitution was not intended to  ancout age the General Conference to make frequent  modifications in the procedure to be followed. That  vould be most unsatisfactory. The main object of  that prozosal was to ensure maximum flexibility and  to ma te i. easier for the General Conference to  rrodif » procedure if the need arose.
(32) While fully appreciating the legal aspects of the  quest on, he recalled that the United Nations  Ecoromic and Social Council dealt with similar cases  by means of resolutions, There was no absolute  necessity for Unesco to adopt the same method, but  it might serve as a useful indication.
(33) Mr. SIMSARIAN (United States of America)  agreed with the previous speaker. There was  clearly a need for stability, and the business before  the Committee showed that amendments to the  Constitution provided no guarantee of such stability.  A resolu. ion by the General Conference shouid be  consider: valid and should remain in force without  further ac’;on being taken by the General Conference  at either its n nth or any subsequent sessions. It  was bad policy to issue new editions of the Constitution  for any changes of detail that were introduced.
(34) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) thought a compromise  solution should be proposed, as, in his view, it  should be laid down in the Constit_tion that the  Director-General was responsible for presenting  the report but that its frequency cculd be laid down  in the Rules of Procedure in order to avoid taking an  ider’ical decision at each biennial Conference.
(35) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) supported the  Japanese delegate's proposal, p -~v led that reports  were submitted to the Fx:cutive Boa. 1. which was  + Unesco's secor- constitutive body.    LEGAL COMMITTEE
(36) Mr. HUZAYIN (Egypt) surported the proposal of  the representatives of Japan az j Greece. It would  simplify matters with regard tu the Constitution, it  would safeguard the legal point of view and ensure the  greater flexibility for which the United Kingdom  delegation was concerned.
(37) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) stated that the Rules  of Procedure of the General Conference set out to lay  down procedure for its work and debates. They could  not therefore include provisions relating to reports to  be submitted by the Director-Geieral in the intervals  between sessions. There remained the choice  be tween a constitutinnal provision and a resolution,  At the stage they had reached ‘he Chairman of the  Committec should perhaps call for a vote on the  ques*.un.
(38) In reply to a question by the Lebanese delegate,  who wished to know if a resolution could modify the  Rules of Procedure in the same way as an amendment,  Mr. Saba stated that he thought the obligation to  present reports could usefully be included in the  Constitution, which couid also specify that it was the  Conference's task to decide by a simple resolution on  the form and frequency of such reports.
(39) Mr. SIMSARIAN (United States of America)  thought that the proposal by the representative of  Japan was a valuable compromise. A very general  statement on the reports might be included in the  Constitution, and the details dealt with elsewhere,  The Japanese proposal also avoided delay in the  distribution of the reports while waiting for the  tu:nMents of the Executive Board.
(40) The sentence enbodying the general principle, to  be included in the Constitution, might be drafted as  follows:  "The Director-General shall prepare reports on  the activities of the Orgamzation, which shall be  communicated to Membe ~ States and to the Executive  Board."
(41) Mr, HUZAYIN (Egyot) thought that Article V,  paragraph 9, should be left as ameuded, but that  £rticle VI, paragraph 3, should be simplified.
(42) The CHAIRMAN took it that the representative of  the United States had withdrawn his original proposal.  He therefore proposed that a drafting committee,  composed of the Rapporteur and the representatives  of the United States and Japan, prepare a compromise  draft based on the Japanese proposal,
(43) He adjourned the meeting for ten minutes.
(44) Mr. BAUGNIET (Rapporteur) read out the text of  paragraph 9 of Article V of the Constitution as amended  by the delegate of the Union of South Africa:  "9, The Chairman of the Executive Board shall  present, on behalf of the Board, to each ordinary  session of the General Conference, with or without  comments, the reports on the activities of the  Organization which the Director-General is required  to prepare in accordance with the provisions of  Article VI. 3(b)."  (Zi) After a discussion, this draft was adopted.  - 890 -   LEGAL COMMITTEE
(46) The CHAIRMAN, turning to the amendments to  Article Vi, paragraph 3, said the drafting commitiee  proposed that the following text be added to the body  of paragraph 3 as contained in the Constitution:  "The Director-General shall prepare and  communicate to Member States and to the Executive  Board periodical reports on the activities of the  Organization, The General Conference shall determine  the periods to be covered by these reports. “  {47) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) stated that reports  to Member States could be communicated only by the  Director-General of Unesco, while any other member  of the Secretariat, appointed by him, could replace  him at all official meetings.
(48) He also suggested that the proposed amendment  to paragraph 3 of Article VI should form a separate  paragraph 3b.
(49) Mr. HUZAYIN (Egypt) was not opposed to the  proposal of the Legal Adviser. The new sub-  paragraph, however, had li**le relation withthe first  part of paragraph 3, and: -vuld perhaps be more  satisfactory to include it in Article VI as a separate  paragraph 7. That would avoid any change in the  numbering of the other paragraphs.
(50) The CHAIRMAN, taking into account a suggestion  by the representative of France, said that the  proposal before the Committee was that the existing  text of Article VI, paragraph 3, be renumbered 3a,  and the new text submitted by the drafting committee  added as paragraph 3b.
(51) The proposal was unanimously adopted.
(52) Withregardtothe resolutionto be submittedtc the  General Conference, the CHAIRMAN pointed out that  the Committee would have to inform the Conference,  through the Administrative Commission, that it wished  it to determine the periods to be covered by the  reports.
(53) TE. draft text of the resolution as submitted by  the drafting committee was as follows:  "The General Conference, having considered  Article VI, paragraph 3b, of the Constitution, decides:  That the Director-General shall prepare and commu-  nicate to Member States and to the Executive Board
(1) A report on the activities of the Organization  covering the period from 1 January to 31 December  of each year;  {2} ln those years during which the General  Conference shall meet in ordinary session, if  necessary an interim report covering the activities  of the Organization from the end of the preceding  year, n
(54) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) asked that the  Executive Boardbe placed before the Member States  in the passage dealing with the sending of the  Director-General's report, He explained that that  was a question of tact and form which should be  respected.    VIIK-4
(55) Mr. BAUGNIET (Rapporteur) preferred the  reverse order.
(56) Mr. SIMSARIAN (United States of America)  thought the draftimg coramittee had agreed that the  words "if necessary” in the last part of the resolution,  should come immediately after the words "an interim  report".
(57) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) thought that the  alteration proposed by the Greek delegate should not  attemnt to determine the order of presenting reports.
(58) He thought that the Board should appear after  Member States as it was to them that the Director-  General's reports were addressed. Member States  should for that reason be considered is the  addressees of those reports.
(59) Mr. PHOTIADES (Greece) said he fully understood  the point of view of the Legal Adviser. All he feared  was that the reports would be sent direct to the  governments of Member States, avoiding the  intermediary stage of the Executive Board, which  represented the General Conference. Tnat would  mean that the Executive Board no longer exercised  any check.
(60) Mr. Photiades added that he had no fears as  regards the existing Director-General bul that  permanent rules shouldbe drawn up so as to eliminate  possible mishaps in the future.
(61) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) was frankly of the  opinion that reports were addressedto Member States.  They wouldalso be communicatedtothe Board, which  could comment on them, if it wished.
(62) Mr. SIMSARIAN (United States of America)  wanted to be sure that the distribution of the reports  would not be delayed while waiting for the Executive  Board to meet, If the reports were published in  January, and the Executive Board only met in May,  the reports wouldbe distributedon publication and the  Board would comment on them when it met and  circulate its comments to Member States. That was  his understanding of the situation.
(63) It should furthermore be made clear that the  interim report would also he communicatedto Member  States; both reports should be prepared by the  Director-General and communicated to Member  States and to the Executive Board.
(64) The CHAIRMAN replied that the points raised by  the United States representative were covered by the  draft text of the resolution submitted by the drafting  committee, He invited the Legal Committee to vote  on that draft resolution.
(65) The draft resolution as submitted by the drafting  committee was unanimously adopted.  The meeting rose at 1 p.m.  - 891 -