18 November 1954 at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman: Mr. BEEBY (New Zealand)  ITEM 8.3.1 OF REVISED AGENDA: AMENDMENTS TO  ARTICLE V OF THE CONSTITUTION (STRUCTURE OF  THE EXECUTIVE BOARD) (documents 8C/JUR/1. 8C/ADM/1.  Annex III and 8C/ADM/1 Add.) (continued)  FIRST REPORT OF THE LEGAL COMMITTEE (document
8C/JUR/1)
(1) Having announced the order of business for the  afternoon, the CHAIRMAN called upon the Rapporteur  of the Legal Committee to present the Committee's  first report (document 8C/JUR/1).
(2) Speaking as Rapporteur of the Legal Committee,  Mr. BAUGNIET said that the Committee had replied  in the following way to the two questions put to it by  the Administrative Commission:
(3) The Committee had expressed the opinion that a  change in the number of members of the Executive  Board could not be regarded purely as a matter of  drafting.
(4) It had also expressed the view that the amend-  ment communicated to the Director-General on
11 August 1954 by the Government of Japan constituted  a draft amendment to the amendments sponsored  jointly by the United States of America, Australia,  Brazil and the United Kingdom (CL/943, Annex 1)  and could not therefore be regarded as an independent  amendment to Article V of the Constitution.
(5) The Legal Committee's first report which  Mr. Baugniet read out, supplied incidentally all  the supplementary information required on the  subject.
(6) Having thanked the Rapporteur for his report,  the CHAIRMAN reminded members that the decisions  of the Legal Committee, which was an advisory body,  were not binding on the Commission. If, however,  it decided to disagree with the Legal Committee on  the first point, for example, and say: "The  Administrative Commission considers that the change  in the number of members of the Executive Board  can be regarded purely as a matter of drafting", the  decision would have to be adopted by a two-thirds  majority,
(7) In reply to a question from Mr. BERREDO  CARNEIRO (Brazil) concerning the precedents which  might be invoked and the procedure which had been  followed when the number of members of the Executive  Board was increased from 18 to 20, Mr, SABA (Legal  Adviser) said that the draft amendment making that  change in the Constitution had been communicated to  Member States within the statutory time-limit, since    the rel:vant circular letter (CL/639) had been  despatched on 12 May 1952, six months before the  seventh session of the General Conference opened.
(8) However, it would be remembered that a question  of figures was raised at that seventh session in  connex on with a draft amendment for changing the  Article of the Constitution which stated that the  General Conference could meet in extraordinary  session at the request "of at least one-third of the  Member States''. Most of the delegates had then  agreed that such an amendment could not be regarded  purely as a matter of drafting,
(9) So far as concerned the Japanese amendment  seri to the Director-General on 11 August 1954,  Mr, MAYER (France) doubted whether Member States  could have been communicated with three months  before the opening of the eighth session of the General  Confer«nce, which, as was known, was convened to  begin work on 12 November.
(10) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) said that the amend-  ment had been sent to Member States by circular  letter cn 12 August. It was for the Commission to  decide whether the three months’ notice provided for  under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure should be  countec from the date of despatch of such a  communication or from the date when it was  received.
(11) Mr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America)  moved the adoption of the report of the Legal  Committee in two parts, first, the adoption of  opinion number (1) and then the adoption of opinion  number (2).
(12) The motion was seconded by Mr. SANDOVAL  VALLARTA (Mexico).
(13) After a prolonged discussion on (intricate) legal  points, the CHAIRMAN invited the Commission to  vote on the motion of the delegate of the United  States of America,
(14) Opinion number (1) was adopted by 43 votes to
6, with 6 abstentions.
(15) Opinion number (2) was adopted by 51 votes to
0, with 5 abstentions.
(16) The whole of the report of the Legal Committee  in document 8C/JUR/1 was adopted.
(17) The Commission then resumed discussion of  - 542 -   ADMINISTRATIVE  the United States' draft amendment in document
8C/ADM/1, Annex III,
(18) Mr. SHARIF (Pakistan) asked the dele gate of  the United States of America whether the adoption of  his amendment would affect the Executive Board's  budget.
(19) The CHAIRMAN remarked that, from the purely  legal point of view, the passing of the amendment  would not bind the Conference in any way in respect  of the payment of delegates’ expenses.
(20) Mr. KELLY (Australia) seconded the amendment  of the United States delegation for the reasons which  had already been so eloquently expressed at an  ear'ier meeting. Further, in order to give small  countries a greater chance of sitting on the Execut:ve  Board, the Australian delegation would support the  Japanese proposal that the number cf members of  the Board be increased from 20 to 22,
(21) Mr. SOLDATOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) stated that his delegation was not In a  position to vote on the principle of the United States’  amendment that day, He therefore hoped that the  final vote on that principle would be adjourned until  the following day.
(22) Mr. PETROVIC (Yugoslavia) said that the  matter had been discussed at formal meetings and  in the lobbies for several days, and his delegation,  weighing both sides of the question, had come to the  conclusion that there was no renl need for the  proposed changes, There were no sufficient reasons  for changing the Constitution in that respect, and it  was unnecessary to revert to the arguments which  had already been put forward.
(23) The question was a practical one, and nothing  would be gained by amending texts. There were no  complaints about the functioning of the Executive  Board in its existing form; it performed its task  punctually and efficiently, It was unnecessary to  reform an institution which was already working  adequately.
(24) There were reasons for that view in Yugoslavia;  since the reforms to the country's Constitution  carried out a year and a half back, the State had  intervened less and less in cuitural and other  activities, Complete autonomy had been granted to  the relevant organizations an¢ associations, which,  taking the place of the Ministries, performed their  tasks of leadership without State intervention,
(25) The Yugoslav delegate, therfore, opposed any  change in the Constitution and supported the status  quo,
(28) In reply to a remark by Mgr MAROUN  (Lebanon) concerning the procedure suggested in  paragraph C of the Japanese : mendment (document
8C/ADM/1 Add., page 2), for elections to the  Executive Board, Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) said  that those were purely transitional provisions, as  was indicated by the heading of the paragraph in  question,
(27) The CHAIRMAN request2d the delegate of    COMMISSION v-17  Lebanon to raise his point when the Japanese  amendment came up for discussion.
(28) Mr, BRIGHT (Liberia) had received no defimte  instructions from his Government in connexion with  the United States! amendment, but had been asked to  try to ensure that certain principles were safeguarded.  It seemed to him that the wisdom of the existing  arrangement had been proved by experience of the  past ten years, and he could see no reason to change  it in a hurry. He proposed that, in order to give  Member States more time for reflexion, the matter  be adjourned until the ninth session of the General  Conference.
(29) Replying to various questions raised both at the  current and at earlier meetings, Mr, KOTSCHNIG  (United States of America) said that, when he had  submitted the amendment, he had tried to anticipate  some of the arguments which would be advanced  against it. He was sorry that he had not been  sufficiently convincing. However, he was sure that  neither those who were for the amendment nor these  who were against it would wish him to repeat himself,  He would therefore confine himself to two brief  answers and two general observations.  {30) With regard to the question from the delegate of  Pakistan, Mr. Kotschnig fully concurred with what  the Chairman had said: his amendment would not  entail a change in present practice, nor did he think  that there should be a change.
(31) The delegate of Denmark had asked whether, in  his view, governments would be bound by the actions  of a Board composed of governmental representatives,  Obviously a government would be bound by the state-  ments of its own representative on the Executive  Board, but governments would not be bound by the  decisions of the Executive Board as a whole.
(32) It had been suggested by three speakers that, if  the amendme .! were passed, Unesco would be invaded  by power politics, that there would be more lobbying  and compromising. Mr. Kotschnig submitted that the  situation would not be really different from what it was  at present. Preliminary discussions among delegations  had to take place before elections; it had always been  the practice and, whether the amendment were passed  or not, it was unavoidable that it should continue, for  it was necessary, under the Constitution, to ensure  that members of the Board corresponded to certain  standards and that there was an equitable geographical  distribution. The amendment would not change those  requirements, The delegate of Denmark had  suggested that the Board, in its new form, would no  longer reflect the various spheres which were Unesco's  particular responsibility, namely, education, science  and culture. The delegate of France had put the same  idea differently, saying that the new Executive Board  would reflect only the wishes of governments and not  those of the peoples of the world. Mr. Kotschnig  could not accept those views; the General Conference  wou" * still be voting upon individuals and, if it  ri7s+4- -ed that a government was proposing an  unsuitable candidate, it could vote against him.  Secondly, even if inembers of the Board represented  their governments, they could still represent  education, science and culture also, for a truly  democratic government reflected the achievements of  - 543 -   v-7 ADMINISTRATIVE  its educators, scientists, artists and writers, The  United States delegation believed that the new Board  would be even more representative than in the past,  for it would represent no longer certain disciplines  only, but the peoples of the world and their highest  aspirations. Further, the new Board would be a  stronger body, better able to advance the great aims  of Unesco. That did not mean, however, that  Mr. Kotschnig wished in any way to belittle the  existing Executive Board; he considered that it had  done excellent work for many years and that  everyone should be grateful to it,
(33) With regard to the proposal that a decision be  postponed until the ninth session, Mr. Kotschnig did  not think it a sound suggestion. He reminded the  Commissicn that the matter had been before the  Conference for three and a half years, and it  seemed to him that it should now be able to make  up its mind.
(34) He therefore proposed that the Commission  vote forthwith on the principle embodied in paragraph  A.1, and applied again in paragraph A.4, namely,  that the Executive Board be elected from among the  delegates of Member States and that each member  represent the government of his State. The question  of the number of members would be decided when  the Japanese amendment was considered,
(35) Mr. CARBAJAL VICTORICA (Uruguay) asked  for a vote by roll-call, in order that those who  supported the proposal should receive all the merit  for it and that those who, like the U: uguayan  delegation, opposed it, should accept the responsibility  for their position.
(36) Mr. NIELSEN (Denmark) pointed out that, if  there was to be a real vote on paragraph A.1, the  Japanese amendment, being further from the  original text, should be put to the vote first.
(37) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) wondered whether  closer consideration should not be given to the way  in which the work of the Administrative Commission  and that of the Legal Committee should be co-  ordinated on the question at issue.
(38) In view of the numerous procedural problems  which had been raised, the CHAIRMAN, witn the.  Commission's approval, decided to suspend the  meeting for a few mirutes in order to allow delegates  to confer with each other regarding the possible  solutions which might be found for those problems.
(39) The meeting having reassembled, Mr,  KOTSCHNIG (United States of America) suggested  a change of procedure. He withdrew his original  motion and proposed that the Commission vote, not  on the principle, but on the entire text of his  amendment, The wording could then be referred to  the Legal Committee for approval. Proceeding in  that way, the Commission would first consider the  relevant amendments to each paragraph of the  United States amendment, and would then vote on  the paragraph as a whole.
(40) The above proposal was seconded by Sir  Kenneth GRUBB (United Kingdom).    COMMISSION
(41) Mr. BERNAL JIMENEZ (Colombia) said that  the Japanese proposal was based on a consideration  of principle, It was not incompatible with the  amendments submitted, which should be studied and  decided upon before the proposal itself was dealt  with,
(42) It was agreed to proceed as proposed by the  delegate of the United States of America and to vote  on the amendment, paragraph by paragraph, taking  first the relevant amendments to each paragraph.
(43) Mr. SANDOVAL VALLARTA (Mexicc),  réferring to Article XIII, paragraph 2, of the  Constitution, asked the Chairman whether he  considered that the amendment about to be put to the  vote came within the provisions of that paragraph,  which stated: '"The General Conference shall have  power to adopt by a two-thirds majority rules of  procedure for carrying out the provisions of this  Article".
(44) The CHAIRMAN replied that the Article  mentioned by the delegate of Mexico did not apply on  that occasion, since the proposal did not modify the  aims of the Organization or affect its basis.
(45) Mr. BERNAL JIMENEZ (Colombia) said that  the proposal did not indeed affect the aims, admini-  stration or future trend of the Organization. The  existing structure of the Executive Board was more  dangerous than the reforms which had been asked for,  since under the existing system difficulties might  arise between countries’ representatives and their  respective governments. Acceptance of the change  would cause those governments to display greater  interest in the Organization and would not affect the  quality of members of the Board, since the latter  wouid be selected by delegations composed, one  could be sure, of eminent men, effective defenders  of the true interests of culture,
(46) The Colombian delegation would vote for the  proposal to modify the structure of the Executive  Board, and would also vote for the Japanese  amendment increasing the number of Board members.  The delegations that took that view were quite united  and had no reason to fear a .ote by roll-call,
(47) Mr. SOLDATOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) wished to make it quite clear that his  delegation would vote in favour of the Japanese  amendment, but would be obliged to abstain if a vote  on the paragraph as a whole were taken that  afternoon.
(48) The CHAIRMAN reminded the Commission that  it was open to any delegation to move that a vote be  deferred.
(49) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) moved a vote on the  first paragraph of the Japanese amendment,  increasing the number of members of the Executive  Board from 20 to 22.
(50) That motion was seconded by Messrs.  AVIDA (Israel) and BERREDO CARNEIRO  (Brazil).  - 544 -   ADMINISTRATIVE
(51) Dr. MUDALIAR (India), seconded by Mr.  SOENARJO (Indonesia) moved that the Commission  vote on paragr aphs 1, 3 and 4 together, as the  principle in r…agraph 1 affected the other two  paragraph ».
(52) Rejected.
(53) Mr. POHL (Union of South Africa) recalled that,  when it had been proposed to raise the number of  members of the Board from 18 to 20, his Govern-  ment had been in favour cf retaining the number of
18. Similarly, at the present time, his delegation  would be against increasing the number,
(54) Sir Kenneth GRUBB (United Kingdom) recalled  that his delegation had been against an enlargement  of the Board 1n the past. However, with the  increased number of Member States, it was felt that  an increase in the number of members would be  justified, He accordingly supported the Japanese  amendment,
(55) Mr. CHIRIBOGA TERAN (Ecuador) expressed  his agreement with the Japanese proposal. It should,  he thought, be considered not from a financial but  from a cultural point of view. In other international  organizations the executive boards usually consisted  of one-third of the organization's membership.  According to that principle, Unesco's Board should  consist of 24 members, there being 72 Member  States; but that was at present not possible, for  reasons of procedure, The figure shculd however  be raised to 22, in order that States which had  recently joined Unesco should have access to the  Board, and in the interests of a better geographical  distribution of seats,
(56) Mr, MAYER (France) explained that, although  the French delegation favoured increasing the number  of seats on the Executive Board, it would abstain  froma voting on the proposed amendment, because the  latter was bound up with what it considered a  dangerous change in the method of election. That  alteration could not fail to transform the very nature  of the Board completely ard, despite the explanations  furnished by the United States delegate, the French  delegation remained strongly opposed to such a  change.
(57) If the text were rejected when put to the vote,  however, the French delegation would be prepared  to frame jointly with the Brazilian and Japanese  delegations a new draft amendment for increasing the  number of members of the Executive Board for  submission in due time to the ninth session of the  General Conference.
(58) Mr, PETROVIC (Yugoslavia) concurred with  Mr, Mayer and said that he too would abstain from  voting on the proposed amendment.
(59) Mr, NIELSEN (Denmark) did not agree with the  delegate of France. He considered it perfectly  logical to vote for the Japanese amendment but  against the proposal as a whole, for, even if the  Board became a governmental body, it would still  be desirable to increase its membership.    COMMISSION v-7
(60) The Japanese amendment to paragraph 1 of the  United States amendment, consisting of substituting  the figure 22 for 20 in the second line, was adopted  by 52 votes to 1, with 4 abstentions.
(61) It was agreed to proceed to a roll-call vote on  paragraph 1 of the United States amendment, as  amended by the Japanese delegation.
(62) The result of the voting was as follows:  Voted for: Argentina, Australia, Austria, Brazil,  Burma (Union of), Cambodia, Canada, Ceylon, Chile,  Colombia, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Egypt, Ei  Salvador, German Federal Republic, Greece,  Guatemala, Honduras, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq,  Israel, Italy, Japan, Jordan (Hashemite Kingdom of),  Korea, Liberia, Libya, Mexico, Netherlands, New  Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, Pakistan, Philippines,  Saudi-Arabia, Spain, Sweden, Thailand, Turkey,  Union of South Africa, United Kingdom, United States  of America, Viet-Nam.  Voted against: Belgium, Denmark, France,  Haiti, Switzerland, Uruguay, Yugoslavia,  Abstentions: Byelorussian SSR, Ecuador, India,  Lebanon, Ukrainian SSR, Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics.  Absent: Afghanistan, Costa Rica, Laos,  Luxembourg, Monaco, Nepal, Panama, Peru,  Syria, Venezuela.
(63) Paragraph 1 of the Uruted States amendment,  as amended by Japan, was thus adopted by 44 votes  to 7, with 6 abstentions and 10 Member States absent.
(64) Mr. BARRIOS (Nicaragua) dissented from the  paragraph in the United States amendment on the re-  election of members of the Beard who were due to  retire. He considered that re-election ought not to  be allowed more than once, in order that all countries  might have the possibility of being represented on the  Board.
(65) Mr. RIANO JAUMA (Cuba) referred to Article  V of the Constitution, which laid it down that members  of the Board "shall not serve consecutively for more  than two terms". That provision had been made for  reasons of geographical distribution. The thesis put  forward a* the seventh session of the General  Confere .c : referred to the appcintment of members  of the Board on their merits as individuals and not on  grounds of nationality. That system made equitable  geographical distribution impossible; it had  incidentally borne hardly on Cuba, which, as a result  of it, had never br'en able to achieve its ambition of  being represented . n the Board, despite the fact that  it had been a founder member of Unesco.
(66) In reply to a question from Mr. SALIM  (Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan), Mr. KOTSCHNIG  (United States of America) pointed out that  "members" of the Executive Board must mean  individuals and not States, since paragraph 4 began  with the words "In the event of the death or  resignation of a member of the Executive Board, .."
(67) Mr. AVIDA (Israel) pointed out that the words  "Retiring members shall be eligible for re-election"  (paragraph 3) was agafnst the principle ~f rotation,  - 545 -   v-8 ADMINISTRATIVE
(68) Mr, MENDOZA (Guatemala) asked, in accord-  ance with Rule 85 of the Rules of Procedure, for a  separate vote on the last sentence of paragraph 3 of  the proposal, His delegation was opposed to any  form of re-election,
(69) The CHAIRMAN observed that it had been  proposed to take two votes, the first on paragraph
3 without the last sentence, and the second on  paragraph 3 with the last sentence.
(70) Mr. BARRIOS (Nicaragua) asked for a five  minutes’ suspension of the meeting, to enable  delegates to exchange their views, as they nad  successfully done at an earlier stage.
(71) Mr. FRAGA IRIBARNE (Spain) asked for an  explanation of the Chairman's views on the result  of a separate vote, as asked for by the Guatemalan  delegate. If the last sentence of paragraph 3 were  rejected, while the rest of the paragraph were  adopted, the vote would not make sense. Would  paragraph 3, in that case, remain in force? If not,  the result would be extremely confusing.
(72) The CHAIRMAN explained that the position was  that, if the sentence were eliminated, it would leave  the matter open; it might be possible, ot course, to  deal with it in the Regulations instead of having a  provision in the Constitut/on,
(73) Mr. BERNAL JIMENEZ (Colombia) understood  the anxiety shown by some of the delegates, in  particular the delegate of Nicaragua, with regard to  the lost sentence of the paragraph under discussion.  Nevertl.eless the fear that the new system might not  permit the election of Member States in rotation, or  that such rotation might not take place with sufficient  speed, was unfounded. There was another aspect of    COMMISSION  the question to be taken into account - the need for  continuity within the Executive Board, so that the  more important States might go on being represented  and continue to promote the progress of the  Organization,
(74) Moreover, the election of members to the  Board generally resulted from agreements between  countries of a given cultural and geographical area,  e.g. Latin America. Such private and internal  agreements would facilitate the drawing up, every  two years, of lists of candidates for the Board,
(75) The Colombian delegate concluded that the  paragraph should be approved in its entirety,
(76) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) said that, under  general principles of lav, anything not expressly  forbidcen remained permissible and that therefore,  in the absence of any rule concerning the re-election  of former members, those members should normally  be re-eligible.
(77) Mr, SANDOVAL VALLARTA (Mexico),  referring to Article V.C, 13 (d) of the Constitution,  asked how that provision would be affected if the last  sentence of paragraph 3 were adopted. Would it  continue in force?
(78) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) explained that the  “transitional provisions" which were the subject of  section C were intended to replace those contained  in the existing text of Article V.
(79) Sir Kenneth GRUBB (United Kingdom), seconded  by several delegations, moved the adjournment of  the me2ting,
(80) Adopted.  The meeting rose at 7,5 p,m.  EIGHTH MEETING
19 November 1954 at 10 a.m.  Chairman : Mr. BEEBY (New Zealand)  ITEM 9.3.1 OF REVISED AGENDA: DRAFT AMENDHENTS TO  ARTICLE V OF THE CONSTITUTION (§ TRUCTURE OF THE  EXECUTIVE BOARD) (documents 8C/ADM/1 and 8C/ADM/1 Add.)  (continued)
(1) The CHAIRMAN invited the Commission to  resume its consideration of the draft amendments to  the Constitution to revise paragraphs 1, 3, 4, 12 and
13 of Article V concerning the membership of the  Executive Board, as submitted by the delegation of  the United States of America in document 8C/ADM/1  Annex III and co-sponsored by the delegations    of Australia, Brazil and the United Kingdom,
(2) Mr. KOTSCHNIG (United States of America)  said he had reconsidered the matter and believed  that the needs of the Organization would be better  served if the proposal to amend paragraph 3 were  withdrawn. The paragraph as contained in the  Constitution meant that no individual member of the  Executive Board could be elected for more than two  consecutive terms of office; there was, however,  nothing to prevent the Conference froma electing as a  member of the Executive Board a national of the  - 546 -