Iv-28 PROGRAMME COMMISSION  TWENTY - EIGHTH MEETING  ‘29 November 1956, at 3 p.m.  Chairman: Mrs. MYRDAL (Sweden)  TIE 9.3 OF THE AGENDA : NATURAL SCIENCES (documents 8C/5  and Addenda and Corrigenda)  {1) The CHAIRMAN opened the discussion on Chapter
2 of the Programme, calling on Mr. Auger to make  an introductory statement,
(2) Mr, AUGER (Director, Department of Natural.  Sciences) stated that, under the Proposed Programme  and Budget and Corrigendum 1, Unesco would devote  roughly $1,000, 000 to activities ‘Cohnected with  natural séiences and the maior project. on scientific  research in arid lands, While the sim ailocéted  might seem small in comparison with ‘the ‘considerable  amounts devoted to scientific’ research throughout the  world, Unesco occupied ah ‘independént ‘position in  relation to résearch bodies ‘and en d écrisidérable  prestige, ‘which was a great “advantage pou enabled it  to strike a balance between its financial méans and  its resources in the sphere of thought and ‘academic  research, He stressed that no country could afford  to neglect scientific research and ‘that Ünésco's role  was not only to assist the less developed countries  but to render whatever aid it eoild to those that were  more advanced. The programiié Submitted to the  Conference strove to’ achieve’ Ly balance bétwéén -  Unesco's vérious intérests in'régard to scientific  progress and, if it seemed to some to show a lack of  imagination,” that was solely due to thé fact that it had  not been possible to introduce innovations and that  it had been necessary to échcentraté on  finishidg- or’  continuing work already undériakeh and to centre  efforts on projects of major importance, The 1957-
1958 programme, for budgetary reasons, included  ho special section on the teaching anid diffusion of  science. It contained three main sections, viz, co-  operation with international scientific organizations,  scientific research, and regional activities, -  “ The programme for international scientific co-  opération was chiefly concernsd with the work to be  carried out jointly with permanent non-governmental  organizations such as the International Council of  Scientific Unions (ICSU); the Council for International  Organizations of Medical Sciences and the Union of  International Engineering Associations, and with  other temporary bodies such as the Secretariat of the  International Geophysical Year and the Pacific Science  Association, The programme for the improvement of  scientific documentation was unchanged from that of  previous years, The research programme was the  fullest and had been the subject of most study, start-  ing from the principle that nothing should be under-  taken until regular contact had been established with  qualified experts, either through advisory committees  or through contracts entered into with such experts,  So far as research on the peaceful uses of atomic  energy, in particular, was concerned, the Director-
466  General had not been able to undertake effective  practical measures until 1958 and the programme  would only’ dévelop fully: {a the 1957-1958 period, . -  when the necessary agreement with the Specialized :  Agencies of the United Nations had been reached,  Once the new Atomic Energy Agency that had just ;  been created was functioning normally, Unesco would  naturally have to hand over to it thé work in progress  in that field, Inthe period before the new Agency - -  reached full working capacity, the United Nations  would be holding & conference on the production of  energy in 1958, Unesco would be holding two  conferences ‘on radio-isotopes and the training of  experts, and FAO ind WHO would be studying ai,  number of problems connected with atomic energy.  Whilé the ‘cell biology prôgramime was not new, M4 had  been modifiéd after corisultations with éxperts whose  advice had led the Sectetariat to submit detailed  recommendations, “Régarding reséarch'connected -  with other forms of energy, the’ United Nations had  asked Unesco to do biblié raphicai work, the  budgetary implications of ‘which wér= quite small.  He éxplained that the small section on the promotion  of science represented what was left 6f the diffusion  of science programme and included only scientific  exhibitions and the publication of the periodical  "Impact",  Turning to the Regional 1 Activiiles programmé, Mr.  Auger explained that the Lorne. Sélétice Co-opération  Offices had been’ réorganize EY pütsuahce ofthe’  recommendations of thé General Confereiice, and made  responsible; in particular, for the execution of the  programme at the regional level,’ “They ‘dealt with  “ projects connected with Technital Assistaricé and the  Participation programme,” on the. ohe hand, ahd with  the execution of a truly regional programme {ncluding  training courses, symposia and meetings in which  scientists from all parts of the world would take  part, on the other. Thanks to the courses that had  already been held, more than 600 young people had  had opportunities for higher education; over 1, 000  scientists had also been able to meet at some twenty  symposia,  In conclusion, Mr. Auger pointed out that the staff  of the Department had been cut from 49 to 42, in order  that the maximum amount of money might be ‘available  for the execution of the programme. À change in the  number of staff provided for might, however, be  necessary for the carrying out of the major project.  . 2.1 Co-operation with International Scientific  Organizations (paragraphs 14 to 24 and documents  sc/DR/2 and 85) -
(3) The CHAIRMAN drew attention to the changes  appearing in Corrigendum 1 (paragraphs 22(a) and   “ programme for co-0  “tive ll posaibié help to'them, was glad of thé good  ‘except for advice and exchange of persons, -
(8) Mr, FLORKIN'(Bsigivin) did tot consider: that  “which had proved their worth. Such mhéthods consisted  studied by the Secretarial, and Member Statés were  .. The Belgian dels gatioi was in favbut' of the ‘  -to the International Geophysical Year,  PROGRAMME OOMMISSION  ®) and to the three relevant draft resolutions ©  presented by Uruguay (document 9C/DR/2), Belgium  (document 9C/DR/85) and Italy (document 9C/DR/103).
(4): Sir Charles DARWIN (United Kingdom) warmly  approved the prograinme; and particularly paragraphs
19 to 23, because they represénted a fertilizing  process which would yield much more than had been  put into it, With regard to the teaching of science,  he stressed the world shortage of science teachers,  but thought the matter was perhaps rather within the  province of the authorities responsible for the teach-  ing profession, He was opposed, however, lo  Unesco's ac: !vities in the fields of atomic energy and  cell biology, In his opinion, Unesco should specialize  in major projects - and minor ones if they were well  chosen = rélated fo fields in which nobody else was  doing anything, That was by no means the case of  atomic energy, and he would rather savé the money  lavolved which,‘ in any case, would make very little  difference to the advancement of khowledge in atomic  energy, ‘on which governments were spending billions  of dollars, Furthermore the new International. -  Atomic Energy Agency wis equipped té study the  questions of power, training of engineers, production  of isotopes and elimination of waste products, and  scientific research (already being done by every  University); Informing the world in general about  atomic energy could very weil be left to the Inter= -  national Council of Scientific Unions, / which should  have ité grint incredsed for that purpose, Thus  nothing remained for Unesco to do - or nothing would  remain in a year or two, when the International Atomic  Energy Agénéy was in full swing, ‘Sir Charles thought  Unesco should ledye the field of atomic energy alone  the prograinmé submitted by Mr. Aujér could be  described as shiiririg a lick of imagination, On the  contrary the Director of the Départment was to be‘  coagratilitéd on'the judicious’ construction’of thé -  programmé. ‘The Belglah delégation way pleased to  note the deveélopraent of the fendency to usé methods  essentially in consultations with éiperts and with  Member Stites, Thè replies recéived were then  called upon 'to decide’ én thé inatitutions that could  moet usefully collaborate in the exécution of the  major project, The methods were really thé invention  of the Department of Natural Sciences and ‘aH important  contribution to fnternäfional understatiding and co-  operation, NE IEEE   -operation with internativnal  scientific organizations, ‘It hoped that Unésco would  relations éxisting between Unesco snd ICSU, and  trusted that the subvention asked for would bé granted  Mi, Florkià, unlike Sir Chatlés Darwin, thought  that the introduction of cell biology reséarch into the  programmé was of vital importance, While advanced  research ct that subject was going on in'à large  number of countries, certain aspects had been ‘  relatively neglected. Research on such aspects would
467  IV-28  contribute greatly to progress in that field, and  that contribution could be made only at the inter-  national level, The Belgian delegation therefore  warnily supported the Secretariat's proposals  regarding conferences and symposia to promote  research and facilitate the work of scientists in the  field of cell biology.
(6) Mr. TENA ARTIGAS (Spain), commenting on the  programme submitted by Mr, Auger, said that he  considered the main problem confronting the .  Department of Natural Sciences to be the balancing  of activities, Unesco could certainly not cover all  aspects of contemporary science and had to restrict  itself to acting as a catalyst - something which had  been done successfully in connexion with the arid  zone and other important projects. He observed that  exchanges among scientific bodies were an effective  méans of progress and that Spain was greatly  interested in international meetings and congresses,  ‘The Higher Council for Scientific Research maintained  contacts with more than 3, 000 institutions in 62  countries, To ensure that publications reached all  those to whom they were necessary, every country  should publish lists thergof,: and, in that connexion,  he felt that the difficulties arising because of the  diversity of languages employed could be overcome by  means of technical dictionaries and abstracts, He:  mentioned that Spain took part in the work of 10 of the
11 major international scientific organisations, :  He advocated the granting of assistance to astro-  nomical and geophysical services and considered that,  in addition to. the subvention received from ICSU,  they should have a special subvention from Unesco.  He thought that, in carrying out the Department's  work, Unesco should inaintain relations with inter-  national scientific organisations; participaté in  Member States! activities and establish regional -  groups in countries sharing the same’ language. .  Noting that scientific contacts between East and West  were few, he considered that that state of affairs  could be improved by developing exchaigés between  libraries and academiès, and through expert missions.  He informed the Commission of Spain's interest in  the use of radio-isotopes, stating that the Nuclear  Energy Committee was holding courses and awarding  fellowships on that subject. Referring to cancer  research, ‘the speaker put forward the view that  international standards for thé collection and use of  data should be established, and inentfoned that in.  Spain the notification of cancer cases was compulsory  by law, In conclusion, he expressed the opinion that  the proposed form of contract referred to’ under the  section on the marine sciences appeared to be the  most effective,
(7) Sir Harold SPENCER JONES (Intérnational - -  Council of Séléntific Unions) stated that the Unions  had put their house in order; in future Unesco's  grants would be used for purely scientific puiposes,  He asked that the grant to ICSU bé increased to” -
325, 000 annually for 1957 and 1956 in connexion *-  with its work for the success of thé Geophysical Year,  whose programme had been finalized after many  regional conférences, with working parties for each  discipline, It had been decidéd, with the co-operation  of 84 States, to create 22 research centres to study   Iv-28  the forces acting upon the Earth, Young scientists  had been carefully trained, special manuals issued,  a co-ordinator of operations appointed,” a world data  centre created and over $200, 000, 000 spent,” ICSU  had paid for most of the organizational work (the  United States of America and the United Kingdom had  made special contributions) and the result was a  deficit of some $75, 000, Sir Harold added that  paragraph 22 should contain some provision for the  establishment of the Federation of Astronomical and  Geophysical Services (FAGS).
(8) Mr. LORTIE (Canada) was much interested in  the projects put forward by the Department of Natural  Sciences. He pointed out that pure and applied  scientific research was one of the best organized.  types of work in the modern world and that it was  important to concentrate the Organization's efforts  on aid to the countries that were least advanced from  the scientific ‘standpoint, although help to scientists  working for the advancement of science, to inter-  national scientific organizations, and to documentation  services should not be neglected,  He regretted the almost complete neglect of the  diffusion of science in the programme, stressing its  great importance for all countries,. and the fact that  it advanced Unesco's aims by helping to develop -  international understanding.’ The Canadian delegation  found it difficult to understand the budgetary reasons  that had led to its being deletéd from the programme,  On the other hand, he did not consider it opportune  for Unesco to launch out on a large-scale programme  on the uses of atomic energy just when the newly  established Atomic Energy Agency was to begin its  work...  While his delegation considered that the programme  as a whole was well conceived, it hoped that Unesco  would concentrate its activities on a few projects  which, if well administered, would lead to appreciable  practical results.
(9) Mr. KOVAL (Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic)  congratulated the Director of the Department on  having succeeded in concentrating Unesco's activities  in the natural sciences on a small number of projects,  the most important of which dealt with marine  sciences, the peaceful usés of atomic energy, cell  biology and the training of specialists, ‘The Ukrainian  delegation took the view that the study of the peaceful  uses of atomic energy should not be left to one  specialized organization only, but that Unesco should  have research on that subject included in the pro-  grammes of scientific research centres, His  delegation also hoped that additional funds would be  made available for research on radio-active isotopes  and the training of specialists; it was greatly in  favour of convening a conference of scientists of  various countries, which it regarded as a particularly  useful method of procedure.  The Ukrainian delegation had full confidence in  the staff of the Department, but deplored the fact that  the budget for that section of the Secretariat was so  small,
(10) Mr, PIN MALAKUL (Thailand) congratulated  Unesco on its achievements in the natural sciences.  His country had received great encouragement through
468     PROGRAMME COMMISSION  the Bangkok seminar on science teaching, and he  called attention to the Natural Sciences Congress  which would take place in Bangkok in 1957. He asked  Unesco for a subvention of $9, 000 for the publication  of the proceedings of the Congress and hoped that the  Commission would approve such a grant,
(11) Mr, SPILHAUS (United States of America)  associated himself with the proposal put forward by  the delegate of Thailand, He said that two such  congrèsses had already been held in New Zealand and  the Philippines and both had made very valuable  contributions to natural sciences. The small additional  outlay which had just been proposed would be money  well spent,
(12) Mr, TRIKOJUS (Australia) supported the - .  qualitative sspects of the programme; he would make  certain reservations at a later stage with regard to  atomic energy and cell biology, He also supported  the allocation of funds to international organizations  and agreed with the Thai proposal, In addition, he  asked that some help be granted to the Pacific  Science Association, which was collaborating in the  production of scientific documentation and technical  dictionaries,  {13) Mr, SIDDIQUI (Pakistan) v was in favour of  Unesco's work in the field of atomic energy, Small  countries,. he pointed out, could not make any .  contribution without the international co-operation  which Unesco could and should sponsor,
(14) Mr. DUPOUY (France) associated himself with  the congratulations, addressed to the Department and  its Director by previous speakers, on the remarkable  achievements of the past two years,  He pointed out that scientific research, es a source  of new wealth for mankind, ‘was, receiving increased  financial backing in every country in the world, ‘and  the same should be true of Uneaco's programme in  that field, . At its meeting in April 1956 the Inter-  national Advisory. Comm tice. on research in the  natural sciences programme had ‘expressed the hope  . that the Director-General of Unesco would propose a  substantial increase in the sums devoted by the  Organization to Scientific problems, The French _  delegation hoped that the Department's budget would  be increased in the future acd that the Conference, at  its current session, would ‘seize any opportunity it  might find of doing so ‘out of the additional funds it  had voted, .  He expressed his delegatipn's approyal of the  proposed measures to aid ICSU, It attributed great  importance to the improvement of scientific  documentation, which was indispensable to scientists,  and had submitted a draft resolution on that question.  It fully endorsed the Belgian delegate's remarks in  support of cell biology research, as problems of  importance to all mankind were involved,
(15) Mr. THACKER (India) ‘associated himself with  the congratulations which had been addressed to Mr.  Auger, He stressed that the Council for International  Organizations of Medical Sciences, created by Unesco  and the World Health Organization in 1949, co-  ordinated and disseminated knowledge, organized   PROGRAMME COMMISSION  symposia, etc, In 1951, the Council had received a  grant of $23, 750; now, when its aciivities had  considerably increased, it was to receive only  $18,000, He asked the Commission to approve at  least the same grant as in 1951,
(16) Mr. BURNS (New Zealand) had nothing but apprecia-  tion and general support for the Natural Sciences pro-  me.. He welcomed the grants to learned societies  and to the Pacific Science Association, He associated  himself with Thailand, Australia and the United  States ‘of America in asking for an increase grant to  that Association. He stressed that scientists should  be helped to take part in the Bangkok Congress, and  agreed with the representative of ICSU, whose request  he supported very strongly indeed.
(17) Mr, AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) observed that most of the delzgates had  expressed agreement ‘with ‘the Department's proposals  for co-operation ith international scientific  . organizations, . Amendments’ had been proposed to  paragraph 21 and paragraph 19, with the object of  increasing: the suggested subvention. to the Pacific  Science Association from $6, 000 to $9,000 and the  ‘CIOMS subvention from $18, 000 té $23,750 à year,  Both proposals had been seconded,  He drew the Commission's ‘attention to a document  “on modifications to the work plans in document  ‘ac/s Corrigendum 1 that had just been ‘distributed.  In the section dealing with co-operation with inter-  national scientific organizations, that document  proposed that the existing wording of p äragraph 22(b)  relating to the International Comiputatlo où Ceritre, be  altered in order to enable Unesco to, lénd its support  to the provisional Centre ‘organized by’ the States  which had ratified the Cotivention’ establishing it.  The experts convened by Unesco and the Ttailan’  Committee for the Centre had proposed thit the  provisional Centre begin its work, as five ‘govern-  ments had already ratified the Convention. The main  object was to start ‘the extremely. rn pro-  wording would enable the Director-General to  transmit that contribution tô the ‘preparatory  committee of the provisional Centre,  Réferring to the’ Utliguayan draft resolution  (documenit 9C/ DR/ 2j, Mk, Auger pointed out that a  Union for the Conservation of Nature and Natural  Resources, with'a very ‘small budget, was already in  “ existencé:- The object of draft resolution 9C/DR/2  could be ret if the subvention that Unesco had  previously granted to that organization were restored,
(18) Mr, BENDER (Netherlands) thought the first  part of the séntence in paragraph 2 ;(b) (document
9C/5, Corrigendum 1) was somewhat cryptic: "In  the event that this Céntré is definitely constituted".  - He pointed out that only five countries had ratified  the relevant convention and asked whether the  services reférred to in the paragraph were already   being provided. He also wanted to know why document
9C/DR/103 had not been considered receivable,
(19) Mr. NIELSEN (Denmark) (Representative of the  Executive Board) explained that the Board, ‘at its
42nd session, had authorized a subvention of  $5, 000 (for 1955 and 1956) to the preparatory  committee of the ‘Centre. He drew attention to the  fact that document 8C/5, Addendum 1 contained  short Board comments and recommendations con-  cerning the Natural Sciences programme.
(20) The CHAIRMAN ‘informed the Commission that  document: 3C/DR/ 103 had not been deemed receivable  by the General Committee because it concerned a  matter which should have been brought to the notice  of the Conference at an earlier date, She stressed  that the Italian delegation was perfectly free to raise  the issue from the floor. She appealed to delegates  to consider whether $5,000 was a "major or a  "minor" adjustment of the budget,
(21) Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General),  regretted having to point out that, of the additional  $1, 000, 000 voted. by the Conference, the Commission  had already allocated $570, 000 for a single major  project, whereas it had been understdod that the bulk  of the sum would be divided among the three major  projects. Moreover, the’ Commission should not  forget that the decisions it had already taken would  entail the expenditure of $136, 565 over and above the  Director-General's proposals for the use of the  additional funds, The Commission should not lose  sight of the fact that it still had to make a number of  most important decisions,
(22) The CHAIRMAN wanted to emphasize the very  great difference between ad hoc expenditure and an  annual subvention.
(23) Mr, HADJIOLOY (Bulgiria) féit itat voth the  Department ‘of Natural Sciences and its Difector had  dorie everything possible within’ the limits prescribed  by the Conference, While, hé ‘endorsed the ‘congratula-  tions that had beep addressed to them, his opinion ‘  was that the Department's’ programme ¢ and budget had  been given less ‘consideration’ than they merited. The  tendency to neglect scientific activities in Unésco's  programme as a whole’ was to be deplored.  He pointed out that, while there was a Council of  Scientific Unions, a Council for Organizations ‘of  Medical Sciences : and da Unlon of Engiñeéring.
1 F2 or  conélusions fiom the ol of view of the international  organization of the natural sciences, In addition, it  would make it possible to assist certain scientitic  unions which were not internationally represented.  He expressed his regret 'thit scientific institutes  and academies in the people's demidéractes received  too few invitations to scientific ‘éongresaes, as such  invitations wère often sent to’ private individuals:  That weakened {mternational ‘co-operation among  scientific unions and councils, The Bulgarian  delegation strongly supported the arrangements  regarding scientific documentation and the ~  establishment of an international centre of scientific  documentation, It also approved the action taken   IV-28  with regard to the peaceful uses of atomic enorgy  and, more especially, with regard to cell biology.
(24) Mr, BURNS (New Zealand) formally supported  the motion to increase the subvention to the Inter-  national Council of Sélentific Unions.
(25) Mr, HACQUAERT (Belgium) "dééw the Commis-  sion's attention to the draft reso ution submitted by  his delegation, asking’ the Conference to grant a  subvention to the International Uñlion for the Con-  servation of Nature ‘and Natural Resources. Mr, *  Auger had already suggested that the subvention  previously granted to the Union should be restored,  an aim which would be achieved if the Bélgian  resolution, proposing that the amount of the subvention  be fixed at $1,500 a year, were to be adopted,
(26) Mr. TOROCHESHNIKOV (Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics) asked whether the proposed sub-  vention of $6,000 for the Pacific Science Association  covered only 1957, or whether it was intended for
1957 and 1958, He also asked how the. subvention of  $5, 000, mentloried in connexion with the International  Computation Centre, would be used.
(27) The CHAIRMAN pointéd out that document
9C/DR/2 proposed the creation of a new international  organization, whereas Mr, Auger had just stated  that such a body was airéady in existence.
(28) Mr, ESTABLE (Uruguay), referring to the draft  resolution under discussion, said that what had is  done was, to see what the scientific. ‘situation Was, id  which purpose it wis necessary to. take into account  the aims, methods and criteria of ‘science and all  its various branches, While | be, approyed Mr. Auger's  statement, he was of the‘ ‘opinion that the proposed  programmé tended to | favour physics at the expense  of biology. The fundamental basis of the latter science  was cell biology; and, although there were ‘already  institutiôns dealing with biological problems, their  activities should be supplemented through the  establishment of a centre for the preservation of  indigenous species. On behalf of his delegation, he  proposed the following change in the wording of the  resolution; . ,  "To recommend to Member States’ that National  Commissions give special attention to problems  concerning the preservation of flora and fauna, in  co-operation, wherever they consider, it appropriate,  with the International Union for the Conservation of  Nature and Natural Resources, To that end, the  Director-General will render assistance, by sending  an expert and appropriate documentation, to the first  meeting held by National Commissions to determine  the scientific basis for he exchange of species among  the various countries.” ;  -- That would help to prevent the disappearance of  indigenous species. The fact that there were inter-  national organizations already dealing with the  problem was no reason why specialised research  should not be carried out on the indigenous species  of individual countries, ;   (29) Mr. VITO (Italy) whole-beartedly approved the  Natural Sciences programme and Unesco's desire to
470  PROGRAMME COMMISSION  accelerate thé ¢remtion of the Coniputation Centre,  The relevant convertion had been dréwn up in 1951  and had been ratified by. half the minimum number |  of countries, but the original idea of the Cénite had  been accepted by the Economic and Social Council’  in 1948, He could see no reason why that project  should not be finally realized, The Mexican. - - .  contribution could not be used until the Centre was  officially constituted, ‘but the Conference could  authorize the Director-General to eatablish it on à  provisional basis'- as the new wording of paragraph
22(b) suggested. The subvéntior of $5, 009 had been  proposed by Italy for that very purpose,
(30) Mr. LORENTZ (Poland), commenting on draft  resolution 9C/DR/85, pointed out that the last  session of Unesco's International Committee on  Moniitients hdd discussed a more ‘general problem  than that raised in the Bél proposal, The  President of the Intérnatiodal Union for the Cons  servatiod of Nature and Natural Resources had bésn  present, and ‘the Comniittes had’ toède à recommend-  ation to the Diréctor-Géneral With Fetérente' to the  damage ‘caused to'cultural agsets and ‘natural sites  as a result of thé implementation of programmés of  economic development that involved changes i a  methods of cultivatidn, urban development,  constriction of dams; ‘molor, roids, Canals,’ encores,  etc. . The problem 1 Was most. riportant’ and ot concern  to all countries, ‘ It should be ‘studied as à whole and  it would theréforé bé well | {5 double {he amount of the  subvention proposed by the Belgian delegation, In  any ‘event, a preliminary study should be carried ut  during 1957 and 1858, the results of which might |  ‘serve as à Kasis’ for” ‘discussion ata iméeting of experts  to be held’ ia 1939," - Hé ‘would. therefore propose that  draft resolution êc/ DR 8 83 be ,Aiperided by the ‘addition,  after the. word! studies" of the follwing ‘phrase: "in  co-cperation with Unesco's, Jnternational Committee  on Monuments, Artistic and Historical Sites and  Archaeological Excavations, the International Council  ot Museums (ICOM), and other. competent international  organizations,’ on problems of protecting cultural  assets and natural sites threatened by programmes of  economic development involving changes in the  structure of the landscape" . ‘
(31) The CHAIRMAN pélnted out that no changes had  been suggested in resolutions 2. gy and 2,12;4n  relation to paragraph - 19, ‘there was a récomméndation  to increase the’ allocation by 811, 500 for the two-year  period; in relation to paragraph 21, an increase of  $6, 000 (bringing the total to $12, 000) had been moved.  With regard to paragraph 22(a) of Corrigendum 1, an  increase of $20, 000 for 1957- 1958 was proposed, and  in connexion with paragraph 22(b) a grant of $5, 000  to the preparatory committee of the International  Computation Centre had been moved. Document -
9C/DR/85 had a budgetary implication of $3, 000.
(32) Sir Charles DARWIN (United Kingdom) formally  ‘proposed that the annual subvention to the Permanent  Secretariat of the International Geophysical Year be  raised to $25, 000, i.e, an increase of §20, 000 for  the coming two years,
(33) Resolution 2, 1 and 2. 12 were adopted unanimously.   PROGRAMME
(34) Mr. BENDER (Netherlands) wished to know who  would get the proposed $5, 000 grant, since the  Computation Centre was not yet in existence.
(35) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) gave the following explanations:
1, It was proposed to delete the words "'and'to  administrative expenses’ in paragraph 18;
2. The Indian delegation had in fact proposed  the increase of the subvention to CIOMS (para-  graph 19) from $18, 000 to $23,750 a year;
3, In paragraph 21, the new subvention requested  was $0, 000 for 1957 only; ..
4. With regard to the International Computation  Centre, the revised text proposed by the Secretariat  was designed to enablé the provisional centre to  begin work but its financial resources would come  only from countries ratifying the Convention. At  the same time, a separate proposal submitted by  the Italian delegation {document 9C/DR/ 108) called  for the grant of a subvention of $5, 000 from  Unesco's budget, which would be an extension of  the assistance given in previous years, under con-  tract, to the Italian organizing committee, for the  purpose of carrying out the necessary investigations  for the organization of the Centre,
(36) Mr, SPILHAUS (United States of America)  explained that the Pacific Science Association needed  an additional $3, 000 to publish thé résults of the  meeting to be held in 1957 or 1958, bringing the  suggested total to $12, 000, With regard to thé -  assessment of what was a major édjustment of the  budget, he pointed out that an increase from 0 to
5,000 was what might be called an infinite increment,  {37) Mr, TRIKOJUS- (Australia) reïnirided the Com-  mission that the Pacific’ Sciénce Association had  asked the Secretariat that its subvention be  increased from $86, 000 to $15, 000, The Direttor-  General had agreed to au incrense of $3, 000; he
36 000. ‘advocated a compromise increase of
(38) Mr, LORENTZ (Poland) asked Uf he could speak  on draft resolution 9C/DR/80.
471  COMMIBSION IV-28
(39) The CHAIRMAN replied that that draft resolution  would be discussed at the next meeting of the Com-  mission dealing with the National Sciences pro-  gramme,
(40) Mi; AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) agreed that draft resolution 9C/DR/80  should not be discussed immediately, but added that  it had no budgetary implications, '
(41) The increase of $11, 500 relating to paragraph
19 was approved by the Commission by 19 votes to
5, with 13 abstentions, .  - (423) The increase of $ 6, 000 connected with para-  graph 21 was approved by the Commission by 36 votes  to 3, with 3 abstentions,
(43) The increase of $20, 000 (for the two years) in  the allocation to the Secretariat of the Geophysical.  Year (paragraph 22(a) of Corrigendum 1) was  approved by 32 votes to 3, with 8 abstentions,
(44) The $5, 000 allocation to help in the establish-  ment of the International Computation Centre  (paragraph 22(b)) was approved by 20 votes to 9,  with 12 abstentions,
(45) Tan proposal contained in document: sc DR/85  (budgetary implication: $3, 000) was approved by 22  votes to 9, with 18 abstentions, -
(46) Mr, SAMBURSKI (Israel) asked that Unesco  study the possibility of co-operating with the Inter-  national Astroromical Association, a federation of  world astronomical societies with its headquarters  in Paris,
(47) Mr, JARAMILLO (Ecuador) mentioned his  Government's interest in the establishment of an  Institute of Oceanography in the Galapagos Islands;  a request in that connexion had been sent to the  Director-General some months previously, He asked  that the matter be mentioned in the minutes as it was  a subject of world-wide geographical importance,  The meeting rose at 5, 45 p.m.