PROGRAMME COMMISSION  tinve were other possibilities than "kill or cure",  The United States of America was interested in the  "Mnntitute because it wis one of its "contractors!  .Unosco's prestige was irivoived in the survival of the  Institute; if it was declared a failure, it would be a  reflection on Unesco's work. : The Inétitute had been  created to niget a definite need - the lack of a Social  Ssionce Rrsearch Institute in central Europe - and the  United States of America expected that other sponsors  would eventually be attracted. Lack of funds did not,  by iteelf, account for the failure of the Institute's  early expectations; the Institute had not done all it  .. ould have done’ to attract the desired clientele. It  was pot the first period of grace asked for the Inati-  wie; Mr. Kellgrmann thought the Conference should  lay down a time -limit for its existence, while a re-  examination of ita work was carried out, taking into  scoount:. (1) the full extent of its utilisation by  Unesco in the Social Sciences programme (some indi-  cation of that might perhape be given to the Conference  at its current session); (2) the realistic prospects of  "outside" contracts; (3) the reorganization of the  institute, which was rather top-heavy; (4) a better  balance between the Institute's local and international  projects. ;
(33) Mr. ESTELRICH (Spain) sald that, after what  previous speakers had said, he could be quite brief,  The Spanish delegation approved the project, being  convinced that it was designed to ensure the continuity    + give stability to the Institute and,’ in the  IV-10  of the work ‘of the Cologne Instituté for Social Sciences.  The delegation did nét consider, however: that the  matter should bé approached from the standpoint adopted  by somé earlier speakers, who wére in favour of a  kill-or-bure treatment: Thé important was to :  delega-  tion's opinion, three measures were necessary for that  purpose. ‘Thé first was to give the Institute an éseur-  ance of contimmity, so that it could perform its work;  the second was to éstablieh proper co-ordination be-  tween the Institute and the services of Unesco's Depart-  ment of Sociel Sciences; so as to integraié it com-  pletely into (te Social Sciences programme of the  Organisation; the third was to see that thé Inatitute  maintained appropriate talétions with other gimilar  institutes working in other parts of the world and more  particularly concerned with the study of the social im-  pact of modern industrial techniques, both in advanced  and in underdeveloped countries, ‘
(33), The CHAIRMAN thought the various proposals :  could be summarixed as follows: the Director-General  had proposed $30,000 a your; the Executive Board  had suggested $38,000; : and the German delegation had  indicated that it might propose a further increase. The  matter would be put to the vote at the next meeting.  The meeting rose at 1,10 p.m,  TENTH MEETING  “ 20 November 1956, at 3.30 p.m,  Chairman: Mrs, MYRDAL (Sweden)  CONSTITITION OF A WORKING PARTY TO EXAMINE THE  DESMAMLITY OF PREPARING INTERNATIONAL REGULATIONS  ON (A) EXCHANGES OF PUBLICATIONS, (B) STANDARDIZATION  OF EDUCATIONAL STATISTICS, AND (C) ‘NEIGHBOURING RIGHTS *  M COMMEXION With COPYRIONT | |
(1) The Commission agreed to, constitute the above  working party with the following membership: Den-  mark, France, Federal Republi¢ of Germany, Japan,  Malaya-Béitish Borneo Group, Norway, Poland,  Spiin, Switserlind, Union of Soviét Socialist Repub-  Mes, United States of America, Yugoslavia.  “lé 9.3 OF THE AGENDA: SOCIAL SCIENCES (continied)  thetemina 9C/5 and Adévnde and Corrigenda)      di Co-operation ‘with’ intérngtiofal social science  orgabizations and institutions (paragraphs 35-37)  foomtinued) |: co  @) Me. BERTRAND (France) reniarked that, as far
349  as the Cologne Institute for Social Sciences was .con-  cerned, things were by no means 50 simple as the  suggested, |. Gc PAREN The French delegation had no desire whatsoeyer for  in
0 the very. beginning  years to come. « MON BION : Te,  The anil dubventions which the Cologse atltyte  was to recéive under’ thoed proposals would atill be of  the same order of magnitude as in the past, I.  It had been found ini the past, however, thit the  major part of the Instibite's total budget went tô meét  its overheads. It had algo been found thet the Gout  of its publications was much too high ln proportion fo  the total funds placed af the Inilitute's disposal, ~~  Finally, It was undeniable that the instituté had not  Tes   IV-10  yet gained the influence and prestige, on the intellec-  tual and cultural planes, that had been hoped for,  Mr, Bertrand therefore r, nsidered it essential to  give thought immediately to the preparation of a plan  for the complete reorganization of the Institute. That  plan should be produced In close collaboration between  Unesco's Department of Social Sciences and the Insti-  tute itself, and might be prepared by a joint committee.  The plan in question should, in any case, deal more  especially with the following questions: (a) methods  to be used for the internal reorganization of the Insti-  tute, to enable it to reduce Îts overheads and thus to  devote a greater part of its resources to scientific  research; (b) liaison machinery to be established  between the Institute and the Departinent of Social  Sciences for the execution of Unesco's Social Sciences  programme; (c) means to be used to enable the Insti-  tute to co-ordinate its activities with those of Interna-  tional bodies having more or less similar functions; -  (d) relations to be established between the Cologne  Institute and the various German bodies active in  fields of interest to the Institute; (e) measures to be  taken to enable the Institute, at least from 1 January
1959 onwards, to find from sources outside Unesco a sub-  stantial part of the funds required to cover its expenses,  Mr, Bertrand attached particular importance to the  last point and accordingly asked the delegate of the.  Federal Republica of Germany whether - in the event  of Uneaco's folloying the Executive Board's recom-  mendation that this Cologne Institute be granted a sub-  vention of $38,00) in 1957 and in 1958 - the Govern-  ment of the Federal Republic of Germany would be  ready to implement the proposal it had made the  previous July and increase {ts own contribution to the  Cologne Institute's finances by 20 per cent.  Mr. Bertrand emphasized that the plan which he  would welcome for the reorganization of the Cologne  Institute, should be ready early enough to be submitted,  with the Executive Board's comments, to the General  Conference at its tenth session,  So far as the Cologne Institute's subvention was  concerned, therefore, the French delegation would  not he able to approve the proposals contained in docu-  ment 9C/5 Corrigendum 1, or those of the Executive  Board, unless it had good reason to expect that its  own suggestions, just made, would be taken into  account. It hoped that such would be the case, be-  cause it considered tiiat if the Cologne Institute were  to be wound up owing to its failure to fulfil its purpose,  the progress of the ideals which had inspired its  creation would inevitably be impeded.
(3) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) remarked that the future of  the Cologne Institute was, for the first time being dis-  cussed in detail by the Programme Commission, Without  minimizing the importance of sucha study, Mgr Maroun  thought that, in determining the amount of the subventions  tobe granted to the Institute in 1957 and 1958, the Commis  sion should be guided mainly by the Secretariat's opinion  of the services which the Institute did or could provide.  He therefore asked what were the Secretariat's views  on that subject,
(4) Mr. REIMERS (Federal Republic of Ger many)  explairied that, at the request of the Secretariat, his ‘  Government had recently agreed to pay a fixed sum  to the Cologne Institute, within an annual total of
350  PROGRAMME COMMISSION  DM 150, 000 for the three Institutes, In principle, he  could say that his Government would agree to revert  to a percentage basis for calculating its contribution,  but he could not guarantee what its attitude would be to  such a reversion if his own proposal to Increase the  budget were followed. He could only promise to try to  persuade his Government to give its approval,  To clear up an apparent misunderstanding, he said  that he had previously suggested that the regular  overall budget of the Cologne Institute should be  $60,000 a year, which would mean that Unesco's  annual contribution would be $40,000,  In conclusion, he expressed readiness to put forward  a formal proposal based on the sums he had suggested.
(6) Mr, MATIC (Yugoslavia) thought that the Commis-  sion should set up a working party to examine all the  problems arising in connexion with the three Unesco  Institutes in Germany,  So far as the Cologne Institute was concerned, the  main point was to discover what could be expected of  the Institute, It was also important to determine the  means which might be used to make the Institute better  known in Unesco's various Member States. It would  probably be well to enlist the help of National Commis-  sions for that purpose.
(6) Mr, MARSHALL (Director, Department of Sotlal  Sciences) remarked that most of the difficulties with  regard to the Cologne Institute had arisen from the  peculiar relationship which existed between it and  Unesco, In the firat place, the Institute, when founded,  had been financed from resources outside Unesco,  and the Department had never been able fully to absorb  the commitment when funds from outside sources had  ceased, Secondly, the Institute, unlike other Institutes  with which the Department co-operated, was supported  by a subvention which had to cover administration as  well as research. If thé Institute was to be maintained,  Unesco would have to guarantee it a permanent subven-  tion. Other similar institutes were on a different  footing. Thirdly, the Institute was an independent body,  the subvention was not given to it for a specific purpose,  and Unesco had no constitutional control over its spend-  ing. The absence of constitutional power made it im-  possible to guarantee or insist on a closer integration  between the work of thé Institute and that of the Depart-  ment, as suggested by the delegate of Spain, though  that could be obtained through co-operation, of which  there was no lack. A fourth difficulty avose from the  fact that, although international in character, the Insti-  tute was engaged mainly on regional work. Finally,”  it was an international institäte in an area in which  there was no shortage of national institutes, and the  latter were sometimes inclined to regard an interna-  tional Institute as a competitor,  He agreed with the view that there were grave objèc-  tions to maintaining the Institute indefinitely as it was  at the moment, and agreed with the delegate of France  that, if the Institute was to be given further support,  it should be completely reorganized. it would be per-  fectly proper for the Commission to recommend delay-  ing a final decision as to thé future of the Institute,  to allow of a further period of investigation. .  Replying to the delegate of Lebanon, he sald that the  work accomplishéd by the Institute had been useful,  but it had been done at very great cost. The Institute   PROGRAMME  did not fulfil a vital need at the present time, but it  could play a larger part in the future, especially if  the social implications of industrialization ever be-  came à major project.  The report of the working party set up by the Execu-  tive Board to investigate the working of the Institute  had shown that $42,000 would be required annually to  cover salaries and working coats alone, A subvention  of $30,000 from Unesco and a $12,000 contribution  from the Federal Republic of Germany would leave  nothing for research, The Executive Board had pros  posed granting an additional $8,000 à year, which, if  the Department in addition gave contracts to the  Institute, would enable it to operate, The Executive  Board had based its calculation on the probability of  receiving $7,500 à year from the German Govern-  ment, If the Commission recommended an addition  of $8,000 to the subvention, it would be more generous  than the Executive Board had intended to be.  He concluded by saylng that it would be exceedingly  difficult to find the money by making cuts elsewhere  in the Department's programme.
(1) Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General), re-  plying to a question from the Chairman regarding the  procedure which the Programme Commission sh.uld  normally adopt in dealing with the various suggestions  put forward concerning financial aid to the Cologne  Institute, drew attention to Rule 78 of the Rules of  Procedure - and to the circumstances in which some  of {ts provisions had recently been suspended - and  stated the position as he saw it, It might be expedient  to postpone any vote in connexion with the Cologne  Institute until the Chairman had been able to obtain  diréctions from the General Committee - the only  body competent to deal with such problems - regarding  the procedure to be followed.
(8) Tho CHAIRMAN ruled that the Commission should  vote on the proposal of the Executive Board; namely,  that à subvention of $38,000 a year be given to the  Cologne Institute. If anyone contested that ruling, she  would defer thé vote until a direction could be obtained  from the General Committee, as to whether earmark-  ing a sum from the extra $1,000,000 was to be  counted as a "cut elsewhere in the budget",
(9) Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) remarked that, if the  Director-Ueneral was bound by the same rule as were  the delegations, the proposal before the Commission  wag that of the Director-General, which was to grant  the Cologne Institute a subvention of $30,000.
(10) Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) saw no  reason why the question of procedure under discussion  should not be referred to the General Committee. In  his opinion, however, there was nothing in the Rules  of Procedure to prevent the Programme Commission  from adding slightly to any particular amount re-  quested. He mentioned that a Committee, composed  of the Chairmen of Commissions and Committees,  would be set up, at the end of the session, to make  the adjustments necessary to offset such increases so  that the budget ceiling would not be exceeded.
(11) The CHAIRMAN said that she would raise the  question with the General Committee at its next
351  COMMISSION IV-10  meeting, and defer the vote meanwhile. Agreed,  She then asked if any delegate wished to second the  Yugoslav delegate's proposal to set up a working perty  to study the three Institutes in Germany, There being  no response, she ruled that the question of the Cologne  Institute would be considered on its own merits,  Paragraphs 38-40(a)
(12) Referring to paragraph 38 (document 9C/5,  Social Sciences), Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) stated that  his country was very interested in the Statistical Educa-  tion Centre in Beirut, which was doing very valuable  work at the regiorial level, As the Centre was financed  by the International Statistical Institute, Mgr Maroun  asked why the Secretariat had proposed a reduction,  for 1957 and 1958, in the annual subvention granted to  that Institute in 1955 and 1956,
(13) Mr, MARSHALL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences) explained that the whole subvention was given  to the International Statistical Institute, which required  $5,000 for its own activities. The balance was used  to support reglonal statistical education centres, The  policy of the Institute and of the Departiment was that  the money should be used to help in the setting up of  centres, which would gradually become independent.  In 1955-1956, the sum available for that purpose was  $9,000, and in 1957-1958 it was to be reduced to $5,000.  The financial needs of the Calcutta Institute were small  and, although it had not yet been decided whether to  give it a token paymont, it was certain that the bulk of  the money would be given to the Beirut Institute, If the  Beirut Institute received only $4,000, the reduction of  $1,000 was in line with the policy of gradually reducing  support,
(14) Mr, HAMILTON (British Caribbean Group) com-  mented that the Department appeared to be concentrat-  ing on the collection of statistics, which presupposed  that statistics existed. Several delegations had pointed  out that no statistical information existed in their  countries, and it would be extremely difficult to collect  what did not exist. He asked why no provision had been  made to assist those countries to compile statistics.
(15) The CHAIRMAN replied that statistical training  centres had been set up to help countries to produce  statistics, There would be an opportunity to discuss  them under section 3.4 of the Social Sciences chapter.
(16) Mr, BERTRAND (France) emphasized that, al-  though the Organization's general policy should tend  towards the gradual reduction of its financial assls-  tance to such centres as those in Calcutta and Beirut,  it was most desirable, in the case undei consideration,  to enable the two Centres to continue operating as  elficiently as they had done in the past. To deprive  such a centre of $1,000 or $1,500 might seriously  hamper its work. Since it was only a question of very  small sums, Mr. Bertrand was rather inclined to  advocate an increase in the International Statistical  Inatitute's subvention, mentioned in paragraph 38.
(17) Mr. MARSHALL (Director, Department of Social  fences) drew attention to the fact that, even with the  reduction, the International Statistical Institute's   IV-10 PROGRAMME  subvention would be larger than that given to other  institutes, He emphasized again that the policy was  gradually to reduce help to the regional statistical  education centres in the hope that they would even-  tually become independent. If the Commission insis-  ted on maintaining subventions at full level, it wolld  be impossible to help in the setting up of new centres.
3.2 Documentation and Information Services  (paragraphs 41-56)
(18) Mr. FALARDEAU (Canada) thought that, among  the Secrotariat's Departments, the Social Sciences  programme was pocsibly the best planned and the Lest  executed of all, It would be desirable, however, for  the Department to make greater use in its work of the  results of previous {nquiries carried out or sponsored  by the Organization, and for it to make a greater effort  than in the past to stimulate local action, while at the  same time collaborating even more closely with the  various existing social science organizations.  The work of the Department of Social Sciences did  not appear to receive sufficient publicity and, in con-  sequence, the documentation which it issued was not  as widely used as it might be, Mr. Falardeau thought,  therefore, that before considering, as suggested in  paragraph 46, the preparation of feature articles for  the general public on the Department's activities, the  Organization should make sure that specialists had  already received the documentation relating to those  activities, or at least that they were aware of its  existence. .  He asked for precise information about the existing  contacts between the Department of Social Sciences  and the Information services which should normally be  responsible for publicizing its activities, He also  advocated the insertion, in draft resolution 3.22, of a  sentence inviting the Director-General to request  Member States for information on the publicity given  in their territories to the activities and publications  of Unesco's Department of Social Sciences.
(19) Mr. VITO (Italy) asked whether the reference to  "team research" in paragraph 52 meant that individual  research was to be excluded from the surveys,  {20) Mr, MARSHALL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences) explained that paragraph 52 did not actually  represent the Department's intention. An attempt had  been made to make a survey of current research,  which had not been successful, The intention was,  now, to build up a clearing house service in research,  and not to claim that a comprehensive survey was  possible, .  Replying to the point made by the delegate of Canada,  he said that adequate liaison existed between the pro-  duction and disiribution divisions of the Department.  There was perhaps some room for improvement in  distribution, but the system used did succzed in  reaching countries in which the social sciences were  less developed.
(21) Mr. SCHAFF (Poland), reverting to the point he  had raised at the previous meeting, sald that he was  most concerned to see the proposal to reduce the bud-.  get for the work of the Documentation and Information  Services. He insisted that that work was the most    COMMISSION  important of all the work done by the Department and  proposed that the cut should be restored.
(22) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the cuts referred  to concerned the following section of the chapter,  namely, that dealing with Social Science Bibliographies  and Terminology.
(23) Mr. BERKELEY (Secretary) informed the dele-  gates that the Organization of American States had  expressed {ts willingness to continue co-operating in  the preparation of the Social Science Bulletin and the  Internatioital Register of Current Team Research in the  Social Sciences.
(24) Resolutions 3,21 and 3.22 were unanimously  adopted,
3.3 Improvement of Social Science Bibliographies  and Terminology (paragraphs 57-77)
(26) Mr. ANAS (Afghanistan), while supporting the  general terms of resolution 3.31, suggested that it  should recognize the efforts being made by countries  having the same language to adopt identical technical  words to express the same ideas,  It would be useful for Unesco to stimulate the crea-  tion of committees of representatives from countries  having the same basic language. Those committees  could agree on terminology and on the adaptation of  European terminology for their common use. Suc  agreement would be a first step towards the compila-  tion of multilingual dictionaries and would be a much  simpler method of starting such a task.
(26) Mr, VITO (Italy) was disappointed that the Depart-  ment intended to include the bibliography of works on  socio-cultural anthropology in the bibliography of  sociology. In his opinion, the discipline of soclo-  cultural anthropology was one which really required  a separate bibliography. Speaking on behalf of the  International Social Science Council and the International  Committee for Social Sclences Documentation, he asked  that the matter be reconsidered,’  With regard to terminology, he expressed the view  that the Department would have been wise to consult  the International Social Solence Council béfore planning  its project, À scrutiny of the list of experts who were  to undertake the critical review had led him fo wonder  whether emphasis was to be put on the linguistic or én  the scientific aspect, It was obvious that a clear defini-  tion of the object of the review should be made, and the  composition of the group of experts should depend on  that object. ,  In conclusion, he asked why representatives’ from  the United Kingdom and the United States of Ameri¢a  only were to be responsible’ for the English terms,  when English was spoken in many other countries; and  similarly, why representatives of France and Switger-  land weré to be responsible for the French terms. Re  suggested that the Secretariat should send more com-  plete documentation on the project to Member States,  to enable them to see what dictionaries were to be pre-  pared and to enablé them to participate in the prepara-  tion where possible,
(27) Mr. BERTRAND (France) said that he also could
352   PROGRAMME  not approve the amendment, contained in document
9C/5 Corrigendum 1, to paragraph (70) of the pro-  posed programme and budget, which concerned an  international bibliography of socio-cultural anthro-  pology; according to the original proposal, the biblio-  graphy should have been published for the first time,  with all necessary annotations, in 1957. He asked  for the restoration of the funds provided for that  bibliography in document 9C/5.,  He also drew the Commission's attention to the  draft resolution contained in document 9C/DR/14,  presented by France, which concerned the improve-  ment of scientific documentation and included, parti-  cularly with regard to bibliography, certain sugges-  tions which should be of use, not only to the Depart-  ment of Social Sciences, but also to that of Natural  Sciences.
(28) Mr. SOMMERFELT (Norway) supported the view  expressed by the delegates of Poland, Italy and France.  Further, he supported the proposal of the delegate of  France to reinstate the $12,000 cut in the budget.
(29) Mr, JORDANA DE POZAS (Spain) regretted the  proposed reduction, particularly if it indicated a  reduction in the size of editions or the number of  coples of publications on social science documentation  and terminology. He asked that consideration be  given to the possibility of increasing the appropria-  tions, with a view to improving publications and adding  to their number.
(30) Mr. CHABBI (Tunisia) associated himself with  the remarks of the delegate of Afghanistan concerning  the need for helping countries which used the came  language to unify their scientific terminology. That  need was particularly evident in the Arabic-speaking  countries.  Mr, Chabbi also pointed out to the Commission that  it would be helpful to make social science works  available to Arabic-speaking students who had so far  had little opportunity for really objective instruction  in that field,
(31) Mr. PINO SAAVEDRA (Chile) was in favour of  the project but thought that, before improving termi-  nology and preparing social science dictionaries,  meetings of experts would be necessary to define the  limits of each particular science,  -He thought that linguistic experts should be called  upon for the co-ordination of the work, so as to avoid  the risk that social scientists might cease to use the  terms common to countries speaking the same  language, such as the Spanish, French, English and  Arabic groups, and other linguistic groups in Asia.
(32) Mr. MARSHALL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences) explained the procedure followed in planning  the project on términology: a meeting was called of à  group of scholars, selected mainly from the discip-  lines of sociology, political science and psychology.  The group was told that the aim of the dictionaries  was to set out the current usage of certain selected  words and to draw attention to any changes in usage  in recent times. It was informed that no effort was to  be made to impose standard terminology. The Inter-  national Social Science Council had been kept informed
353  COMMISSION     IV-10  but had not been used as the advisory body. The  reason was that it had been necessary to find a group  of people who were free to attend meetings at the times  required and who represented the subjects to be covered.  He pointed out that there was no proposal to abandon  the bibliographical work in soclo-cultural anthropology.  The proposal was to include that bibliography in the  sociological bibliography. It was possible that a com-  prehensive bibliography of anthropology would be under -  taken by some other body.
(33) In reply to a question from Mr, REIMERS (Federal  Republic of Germany), Mr. MARSHALL said that the  French and English dictionaries of terminology would  cover the same field, but would be produced indepen-  dently, There would be no attempt at exact equivalents.
(34) Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) indicated that his Govern-  ment would be willing to contribute towards the com-  pilation of the English dictionary, He welcomed the  suggestion of the delegate of Germany as being in line  with the principle that National Commissions should  undertake as much work as possible on behalf of  Unesco.
(35) At the suggestion of the CHAIRMAN, the Commis-  sion agreed to defer voting on the question of restoring  the proposed budgetary cut until a decision was obtained  from the General Committee concerning the uses to  which the extra $1,000,000 could be put.
(36) Resolutions 3.31 and 3.32 were unanimously  adopted.
3,4 Statistics relating to education, culture and mass  communication (paragraphs 78-87)
(37) The CHAIRMAN reminded the Commission of the  emphasis put by the delegate of Argentina on the impor-  tance of educational atatistica, and of the remarks  made by the delegate of the British Caribbean Group  on the subject of atatistics.
(38) Mr. ANAS (Afghanistan), pointing out the diffi-  culties facing many countries in the collection of statia-  tics, asked whether the Commission would consider  encouraging teachers and schoolchildren to collect  atatistical data in the field of education.
(39) At the CHAIRMAN's invitation, Mr, NANNETTI  (Organization of American States) addressed the meot-  ing and said that the Inter-Amierican Statistical Insti-  tute had doné much work in all the American countries  and that various recommendations relating to statis-  tical work had been made at the last meeting of the  Joint Committee for Co-operation. Accordingly, he  asked that special mention be made in resolution 3,42  of the collaboration of the Organization of American  States in that field. In support of his request, he  pointed out that the agreément between Unesco and his  Organization provided for the submission of concrete  proposals.
(40) Mr. NIELSEN (Denmark) reminded the Commis-  sion that a working party was to consider the question  of educational statistics, and suggested postponing  further discuseion on the subject until a report was received.   IV-10
(41) The CHAIRMAN replied by drawing attention to  the fact that the working party was to consider the  desirability of preparing regulations on the standar-  disation of educational statistics, which was an  entirely different matter.
(42) Mr. MARSHALL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences) thanked delegates for the suggestions they  had made, He would take them into account when pre-  paring future programmes.  Referring to the proposal of the representative of  the Organization of American States, he said that cer-  tainly Unesco desired to have the co-operation of the  Organization of American States and of other organizg-  tions in {ts work; but he felt that if the name of one  organization were added to the resolution, it might be  necessary to add more.  He thendrew attention to the fact that the section on  statistics in document 9C/6 concerned only the routine  work of the Department in that field. There was an  additional proposal in the Annex to Corrigendum 1 for  strengthening the provision for educational statistics  in the major project on teacher training in Latin  America,  In conclusion, he agreed that the Commission could  take a decision on the section under discussion, with-  out prejudging the results of the deliberations of the  working party on the standardisation of statistics.
(43) Mr, MARTINEZ VIADEMONTE (Cuba) approved  resolution 3,42, with the amendment proposed by the  representative of the Organization of American States;  he suggested that a reference to the statistical work of  that Organization should be inserted in paragraph (A)  of the resolution (paragraph 79 of the Social Sciences  chapter),
(45) The Commission agreed, by 30 votes to 1, without  abstention, to amend the text of resolution 3.42 (A) to  read: "'To collect, analyse and publish, in collabora-  tion with Member States, the United Nations and the  Specialized Agencies, the Organization of American  States and other competent international organizations,  statistical information relevant to Unesco's pro-  gramme",
(46) Resolution 3.41 was adopted unanimously.
(47) Resolution 3.42 as amended was adopted unani-  mously.
3.5 Development of teaching of the social sciences  (paragraphs 88-109)
(48) The CHAIRMAN drew the attention of the Com-  mission to draft resotutions from the Governments of  Chile and Braxil, relating to the establishing of social  science institutes, and suggested that they should be  discussed after a decision had been obtained on the  utilization of the additional $1,000,000, Agreed,
(49) Mr, BERKELEY (Secretary) drew attention to the’  comments of the Organization of American States and  of the Catholic International Union for Social Service.
354  PROGRAMME COMMISSION  He further recalled that the United Nations had re-  corded ita belief that training in the social sciences  was a fundamental requirement for economic  development,
(50) Mrs. WADIA (India) expressed her Government's  interest in the proposal contained in paragraph 98 of  Corrigendum 1, If more than one seminar was to be  held, she suggested that one should be held in the  region of South Asia. She thought thit the amount of  money allotted for the project was very small,  especially if it was intended to hold more than one  seminar,
(61) Mr. MARSHALL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences), explained that the seminars referred to in  paragraph 98 of the Corrigendum were those being  organized and financed by the United Nations. There  would be three such seminars, held in various regions  of the world. The proposal of the Department was to  keep in touch with the United Nations, possibly supply-  ing papers for one of the seminars, and reserving  further action until the results of the seminars were  known,  {62) Mr. MARQUIS (United States of America)  stressed the importance of having competent social  scientists in all countries, and hence the importance  of training, All Unesco's activities should have the  object of promoting international understanding and  co-operation and, in the field of the social sciences,  the first prerequisite for obtaining such co-operation  was the provision of good training facilities for social  scientists in all countries, °  His Government would like to see help given to  Member States in training social sclentista through  the Participation programme, Such help could be  most effective if Member States were encouraged,  with Unesco's help, to prepare long-term plana for  the training of social solentists, and funds were allo-  cated in the context of such plans, The proposal of  the Government of Chile was of a type which could be  carried out through the Participation programme,  He suggested that the cuts made in that programme  should be restored, to enable the Department to carry  out his proposal.
(63) Mr. YERUSALIMSKY (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) stated that great iniportance was attéched  in the Soviet Union to thé teaching of the social sciences  and expressed the Soviet delegation's readiness fo  approve draft resolutions 3.51 and 3,52, He drew  attention, however, to the fact that the results of the  teaching of the soëlal sélences depended entirely on  the spirit in which that teaching was conducted, It  was evident that the aim should be to spread ideas  conducive to peaceful coexistence, co-operation and  mutual understanding among the peoples. Mr.”  Yerusalimsky hoped that that point would be made  clear in section 3.5 of the Social Sé!énces chapter.  He added that social science teachers in the Soviet  Union would be prepared, no doubt like their col-  leagues in many other countries, to place at Unesco's  disposal the experience which their work had enabled  them to acquire.  The meeting rose at 6.40 p. me