10 November 1956, at 10.45 a, m,  President: Maulana AZAD (India)  later: Mrs, LEFAUCHEUX (Francs)  CONTENTS  Second Report of the Credentials Committee & . à... , 129  General discussion of the’ Virector-General's report and ‘  the Proposed Programme and Budget for 1957-1958 (con-  tinue d); Speeches by the representatives of the United  Nations, the World Health Organization and the Organiza-  tion of American States and by the delegates of Cuba,  Argentina, Yugoslavia, Saudi Arabia, Canada and Viet-  Nam. + 00 + 6 + 6 + 4 6 0 6 0 4 0 + + + + 4 129  SECOND REPORT OF THE CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE  (t) -The PRESIDENT (Translation): I request that the  report of the Chairman of the Credentials Committee  be presented, The Secretary will present that report  on behalf of the Chairman,  a Mr. MONTAGNIER {Secretary of the. Conference)  (Translation from the French): Mr, Président, this  is the second report of fhe Credentials Committee,  "At its first meeting, held on 5. November. 19586,  the Credentials: Committee “authorized me, as Chair-  man, to submit reports. direct to “the. General.  Conference on any credentials, ‘which might be received  from certain Member. States after. the Committee's  first meeting. In conformity with thai authorization,  {bave the honour to: submit the following supplemen-  tary report to the General C ponte  The delegations of the State: listed hereunder are  aly accredited, in comfoi vith Rule 22 of the  Rules of Procedure. oft ral Confèrerice; by.  iastruments. issued either by the Head of the State or  by the Minister of Ë Foreign’ Affairs. or by another  Minister ‘authorized. by the Jeimater of Foreign.  Affairs to issue credentials: Chile; France, Monaco,  Mpal, Norway, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Spain,  Switzerland, United States of. America, Yugoslavia,
1 have the honour to recommend that the. delega-  tions of these States be finally admitted to take part  in the work of the ninth session of the General  Conferénce,  The delegations of the States listed hereunder have  submitted credentials in the torm of letters,  telegrams or other instruments issued by the Minister  other than the Minister of Foreign Affairs and not duly  Wahorised by the latter, or by the head of a diplomatic  t'ission or by a senior official of the Ministry of  Foreign Affairs: Greece, Hashemite Kingdom of  Jerdan and Iraq, ©  “have the honour to recommend that the General |
139     Conference accept these instruments. as provisional  credentials for the delegations of the above-mentioned  States, subject to the later submission of credentials  in due-form, and that meanwhile ‘the sald delegations  be admitted to take part in the work of the ninth  session of the General Conference,  Lastly, credentials in good and due form have also  been deposited on behalf of Tunisia,"  Signed Kahuda, Chairman of the Committee,  GENERAL DISCUSSION OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL’S REPORT  AND THE PROPOSED PROGRAMME AND BUDGET FOR 1957-1988  (continued)
(3) The PRESIDENT (Translation): Now the general  discussion will begin. I call upon the representative  of the United Nations,
(4). Mr. HILL qu nited Nations): Mr: President,  distinguished delegates, it is my privilege | to convey  the Secretary-General's warm greetings to this ‘  Conference and his best wishes for its success, The  holding of a world conference by.a United Nations .  organization in ‘Asia is indeed a signiticant occasion,  and the Secretary-General would like to express his  appreciation to the Government. of India, whose  - generous hospitality | has made it possible, 505  The Conference is aware how closely. the United  Nations is engaged in carrying qui its responsibilities  in the present grave international situation, ;and will.  understand why J make these statements on this  subject on the Secretary-General's, behalf, : I can say,  however, that recent events have underlined the -  importance of Unesco's task - I quote Unesco's , SE  Constitution - of "advancing, through the educational  and scientific ‘and cultural relations of the peoples of  the world, the objectives of international peace and  of the common welfare of mankind for which the  United Nations Organization was established and -.
1-10 5 PLENARY MEETINGS  which its Charter proclaims", shall have some  observations to make in the appropriate committee  about Unesco's programme in relation more particu-  larly to the economic and social activities of the  United Nations itself and the United Nations family  as à whole,  In the meantime, let me merely say that, ‘in ‘the  Secretary-General's view, real progréss has been  made in co-ordination, and that the ever closer co-  operation between the Unesco and the United Nations  Secretariats has done much to expand our opportuni-  ties of rendering effective assistance to the Member  States.
(8) ‘The PRESIDENT (Translation): 1 call upon the  representative of the World Health Organisation,
(6) Dr, MANI (World. Health Organisation): Mr,  President, Mr. Director-General, ‘ distinguished  delegates, on behalf of the Director-General of the  World Health Organization, I haÿé the honour to  convey to you today our sincere good wishes for the  success of your meeting, Dr, Candau had originally  - hoped that he might be able to be with you for a part  of your Conference, This, unfortunately, has proved  impossible and the privilege of extending our greet-  ings to you has fallen to me,  In conveying to you our good wishes, I should like  to take this opportunity to express our appreciation’  of the harmonious co-operation ‘which has always  existed between our two ‘organizations. This fruitful  collaboration has, as you know, extended to many  different fields in which the activities of Unesco and  the World Health Organization are by their very  nature closely interrelated, Some of these are so well  known as to require no special mention on an occasion  like this. Others are listed in the agenda of the  Conference, and for this reason I will not talk about  them at the present time,  The fact thatthe ninth session of Unésco's General  Conference is being held in Asia would nevertheless  seem to justify particular reference, today, to the  four fields which are of outstanding importence and  in which we of the World Health Organisation look  forward to the development of closer collaboration  with Unesco in the future even more than in the past,  These four fields; Mr. President, tô which I refer  are, first, lmpioving the teaching of the basic and  the social sciences as indispensable preliminaries  to the study of medicine; second, the establishment  of health edication programmes in schools as a busis  for positive health; third, promoting knowledge about  the interrelationships between health improvement  and all other aspects of social change, including .  especially the effects of urbanization and industrial-  ization on public health; and fourth, the peaceful  uses of atomic energy in their medical and public  health aspects.  In all these four fields, the enormous needs,  opportunities and problems which exist today mean  that all our governments are confronted with a ’  multiple challenge of truly formidable proportions:  Certain important steps towards the meeting of this  many-sided challenge are already being take by  governments, either alone or in co-operation with  Unesco, the World Health Organisation and other  multilateral and bilateral agencies, However, we
130     would Liks to suggest that, particularly with regard -  to the économically underdeveloped areas, there is  scope for much greater development in the patterns  of co-dperation between our two organisations and  the respective governments,  In conclusion, may | assure you once again of the  keen interest which the World Health Organization  takes in your proceedings, and reiterate our apprec-  iation of the many valuable contributions of an entente  which has sprung from the close collaboration we  have always enjoyed with Unesco.
(7) The PRESIDENT (Translation): I call upon the °  representative of the Organization of American  “States.
(8) Mr. 'NANNETTI (Organisation of American  States) (Translation from the Spanish): Ladies and  gentlemen, Gandhi based his gospel of peace on his  profound faith in human nature”, Suth an attitude  is in the tradition of Indian thought, from the poetic  primitive religions and the classic philosophies to  the spokesmen and creators of modern India who,  like Tagore, Nehru and Radhakrishnan, share  Gandhi's own faith in the innate goodness of man,  It is therefore appropriate that Unesco, after 10 years  work, should pause beneath the bodhi tree to consider  whether it has been doing what it was’ ‘Incended to do,  For Unesco, too, is an act of faith in man,  Unesco has brought together distinguished represen:  tatives of the intellectual world at 4’ series of  conferences, ‘each of which has been a landmark in  the Organization's history. London, Paris, Mexico -  City, Beirut, Florence, Montevideo and New Delhi  are all milestones on the road to closer unity among  the nations in the common striving after peace and  brotherhood,  The Organization of American States wishes to  convey here today its encourdgement to Unesco to “  _ continue in its work. The very fact that a regional  organization representing the New World, with its  sanguine vision of future progress, should come to  the venerable East, the cradle of the great mystic  movements, is a lively proof of the unity of the huries  spirit.  As the Charter of our’ Organisation proclaims, the  American States have formed an association because  they are "convinced that the historic mission A Bp  America is to offer to man a land of liberty",  Charter does not refer to American man but’ ox an  without qualification, for America belongs to all =  mankind. This is borne out by the history of the  American peoples, who have offered asylum to the  persecuted everywhere ih the world; this is borne ~  out by the present pituation in the countries of  America, where races and castes, sects and cultures  are learning to live in unity under the banner of  freedom.  The Organization of American States is an eloquent  witness to the fact that the work Unesco has under-  taken is possible, and that it is not vain to appeal to  the hearts of men in the pursuit of peace,  - At the end of the fifteenth century, the discovery et  America brought new hope to mankind, America was  to be Utopia, America was to be the New World,  free from the mistakes and sufferings and injustices’  of the Old,   PLENARY MEETINGS      At, the present : i new ‘Utopia’ Is fering itself  to mei 3 aspirati 4 with the advent of the atomic:  sg, humanity feels’ self once more on thé threshold  of a new world, Communications have abolished  distances oh'the map and ‘will also abolish the distances  between mind and mind. In both thé cultural and the  political’ sphere; ‘Weare Hving through a process of  integration ‘which we’ ‘sometimes’ find baffling, :  The Atomic Agé has brought man face to face with  the inescapable alternative’ of : possible ‘destruction  of the World or immanent peace, - The international  otganizätion is the” answer of man's intelligence to  this challenge ‘of the twentieth century, Every process  of ‘integration - “of clans with tribes and empires, of  feudal domiains’ with States -. has had to struggle with  the burden of the past,  The integration of mankind, into larger units  entails a broadening of ethics; : The primitive group  has an egotistic ‘ethical codé, Goodness, brotherli-  sess and the commands of ‘morality govern relations  within the tribe aloné but ard not applicable to  deslings with outsiders, - Humanity, ‘ half way through  the twentieth century; is advancing towards true  unity and therefore towards the universalization of  morality, As they draw closer to one another, men  froin the remotest latitudes perceive - to their  imagement '- this unity of minds and this universality  of ethical values, -  “I saw in the distance a : monstrous creature", we  "read in one of the classics; "I drew nearer and  discovered that {t was a man; I drew still nearer and  recognized my brother": > -  - Gandhi himself says that the Sermon « on the Mount  went straight to his heart, Thé Sermon of Benares,  too, goes straight to the heart of Western man, This  universality of ethics also implies’ universality of .  moral sanctions, Events which, 10 years ago, would  have given rise io local conflicts only, now affect  mankind as a whole,’ Unésco's great task is to help  in determining the responsibilities’ which devolve on  edication; science and culture in moulding the new  world on whose threshold we now stand and which,  though it may not pérhaps be: ours, will be our  children's and our. children's children's. . -.  The education of ‘man for the new’ ‘world is the, _  great mission of the present generation ÿ te is not  simply a question of extending éducy on to millions  of filiterates: it isa question of cay ‘ation in the .  highest sense - the uplifting and enn ling of man,  For the ultimate solution t o the prob 10s raised by  the Atomic Age is to be: sought rot in the field of  technology but in the sphere of ethics; . . .  «The social sciences have à great deal of useful  work. to do. The progress of technology ‘entails .  far-reaching charges in the life of society, and the  soir” sciences have to provide immediate answers  to the problems of the Atomic’ Age. We see with.  prés and uneasiness that, while the doctrines  i Jemocracy are. making progress in international  lite, they are collapsing, at the national level, over  great. regions of the world. The universality of  morality implies the universality of law; ‘and we see  . thet this generation | has still a long way to go and  _meay difficulties to overcome béfore attaining to  stiversal observance of human rights.  - The prospects before the natural sciences offer  limitless possibilities for their use for the welfare
131  I-10  of mankind, In the world of culture and thought, there  is a movement tor. the abolition of the artificial  barriers which hamper the circulation of ideas and  the mutual understanding of individuals and peoples,  Never, since the Renaissance, - has there beena …. -  more glorious challenge to thinkers, research  workers, scholars, writers, artists, eduçationists ‘  and all those who have a contribution to make to the  creation of our. new worid, It is. Unesco!s Tesponsibi-  lity to unite them and to spur. them on, for Unesco  represents the “ethical conscience of mankind,  And this is also the responsibility of the Organiza-  tion of American States at the regional level, For  this reason, there. has. been active understanding  between the two organizations from the time of  Unesco's establishment, and this understanding has  taken shape in the General Agreement for Co- ;  operation. The two organizations have worked .  together for the promotion of éducation, science and  culture in América and, to this end, have sponsored  a series of seminars. and technical conferences on  education, - 6 outstanding : amông which was the recent  conferencé of Latin American Ministers of Education.  This co- -operation has. been ‘most active, in connexion  with the Regional Fundamental Education, Centre for  Latin America - CREFAL - which has received  financial support, technical advice and encouragement  from the Organization of American States.  As the Director-General of Unesco says in his  report, the Organization of American States is  prepared to co-operate in carrying out major project  No. 1, especially through the Inter-American Rural  Normal School, at which teachers to serve in  teachers! training colleges throughout America are  trained.  I therefore nave much pleasure in conveying to the  delegates attending this Conference thé cordial  greetings of the Organization of American States and  its Secretary-Getieral, Dr, José A, Mora, and their  good wishes for the success of the Conference's work,  To give’ éffect to your decisions you can count on  the goodwill df a group of countries whose activities  are guided by. that Good Nelghbour policy à dvocated  by President Roosevelt. What is needed today is a  Good Neighbour policy applying to all mankind,
(8) The PRESIDENT (Translation I call upon the  delegate of Cuba. MS ;
(10) Mr, ‘CHEDIAK (Cuba)’ (fransiation trom, the  ; ‘esident, fellow ‘delegates, ‘in thé  absence, of the léader of the Cuban delegation, Dr,  José Agusiin, Martinez, “who, owing. to the present  international situation, has beer p; revented from  reaching New Delhi in ‘time, ï 1 my privilege to  draw aftention, in this gen i discussion of the  business of the ninth’ session, A fesco's General  Confe rencé,. to rtain iriportant topics which merit  careful ‘study | ‘because of their manifest possible  influence on the Organization's ‘future,’ .  At this “ninth sesslon of the Conference, our Organiza-  tion has been brought a step nearer to its goal of .  covering thé whole world, by t he ‘admission of thireé  new States - Tun: sia, Morocco and the Federation of  Nigeria - which have been unanimously welcomed,              - bringing the total number of Member States to 79,  Unesco is thus constantly broadening the scope of   n-10 PLENARY  its activities and strengthening the prestige it enjoys  throughout the’ world,  Unesco's. work’: + whoce coitinutig efte té por be  felt in ‘the future = depends on the ‘efforts of its  Member Statés ahd their National Commissions, Each  session of its General Conférence during these last  few yeats of unceasing activity has provided 4 veal  forum for full discisaion and careful analysis ‘ot the  major educational, scientific and cultural problems  that beset the world and that are directly related to  the purposes assigned to the Organization by its  Constitution,’ Bo  Unesco has positive achievemeiits to té credit,  which, ‘tar trom inducing’ ‘complacency,’ have given it  an ever clearer. vision of ils” ponaibillties and the  bounds of its activity.” ‘This’ present’ ninth éesaion of  the Conference has provided : an interesting and -  encouraging’ instance of the éxcéllencies of the  democratic system, ’distinguished by individual  responsibility, freedom of expression, and absolute  respect for the will of the aajoritys ‘Extremely’ ;  difficult questions. have been fully ¢ diséussed; they  have been studied with the utmost diligence and have  ! ce with’ the ‘ägréed decision  of the ‘majority, without there ever being the slightest  attempt to force through a ‘minority view against the  wishes of the majority, or vice-versa, . --  It is our duty, | in this great assembly And in this  impact of interests and ideals which ¢annot always be  reconciled with one “another,” to re-emphasize the  free and democratic’ nature of our Organization,  drawing inspiration tro the fine arid honourable  international tradition of our’ ‘peoples. ‘Without  arrogance, ‘which would ill become the great and  still less the little, without stridericy, which can  never ¢éme well from any, but with calm décision,  we must diréct our policy in confôrfaity with Unesco's  ideals, As my compatriot, Dr. Ferrara, has said,  any departure from universality, from strict’  equality, from proper observance of the principle of  sti : n the making of appoint-  po M the sound, lôfty and  just “application. of our Constitution and ‘the precepts                           Turning now 0 the détual ‘subst € of ©  sions and coris {dering the programme as a |  see that there are ‘two teatürés ‘of the Prépé  Programme and Budget before the. pas  make it really outstanding and {mp portant,  is the fact that the programme ‘breacrted by the =  Director-General for he next two; years is, erally  speaking, arranged on Fationa and practical lines,  in accordance with the decisions taken by the  Conterencé at Méntevideo on priorities, © The other  significant and urideniably importa ‘feature is the  personality of my old friend, Dr, Luther H, Evans,  the Director-General, whose ts leñts and industry I  sincerely admire. We have worked together on  several occasions, ‘in preparing the Inter-American  Convention and in drawing up the Universal Copy-  right Convention, signed respéctively at Washington  and Geneva. But I am sorry to have to mention that  there are other features of the programme,  omissions and mistakes, ‘which undoubtedly detract’  from its value and which are as inseparable from it  as the shadow from the’ body which casts it, I havé  in mind, among other things, the proposal regarding
132  arising in connexion with the.  MEETINGS  the future. ot Unesco's "Regional Offiié in the’ Westérn  Hemisphere,” to which’ ‘other delegates have airé  referred from this rostrum, when discusiaisg a  of decentralization as a principle in Unescar 8 poy  “ In view ‘et the number of questions and problems »  various ‘sub, bjects ay  included in the ‘enormous prôgramiié. for 1957: 1068  it will ‘not be possible for.me, in the time at my‘;  disposal, to’ cover. the, whole field in detail, My :  comments will therefore be concorned mainly. with;  firstly; the major project on extension of primary.  education in Latin’ ‘America; secondly, the major, ..  project on mufual appreciation of Eastern and Westen  cultural ‘values! thirdly; the question of the mainten-  ance and strengthening of the Regional Office for the  Western Hemisphere, .  “With regard to the first question, Cuba isin +:  general agreement with the major project on extension          “of primary education in Latin Americt, I say "in -  genéral agreement" because Cuba's problem is less  to train teachers than continually. to improve the quali-  fications of those in service (education consisting in  continual development), since all Cuban primary …  teachers are graduates of one or other of our tratalng  institutions,  Our need is not for the training of more. teachers,  since in five or 10 ; cars! time we “shail have enough  for our primary : schools. In fact we have at present
14, 000 trained primary teachers who are not  serving in that profession, and about 1, 000 unemploytd  doctors of education. We are, however, in favour of  continuing to send fellowship holders to the Inter- :  American Rural Normal School at Rubio (Venezuela),  as we consider that the training they réceive there is  a most useful preparation for work in our teache]  training schools, Nor should it’ be forgotten that Cuba  is essentially € an agricultural country and needs to:  stress the values’ of rural life ‘imparting an agricultun!  bias to thé training provided for prospective teachers,  Cuba also requires specialists’ in statistics, educa- -  tion and curricula, In short, ‘we have a surplus of  primary. téachers, a "situation which does not exist  in other Latin Ame rican’ ntries, ©  We also support the major project on’ mutual Hi  appreciation of Easterii ‘and Western cultural values,  As the head of the! dian, ‘délegation ‘said al the.  Montgyideo Conference: "The world, orice’ divided bw  oceans and continents, is today ‘physically ‘ndted, *.  but there is still suspicion’ and misunderstanding. x  is essential for us not to live ‘apart but to live  together,’ ‘unde rstéhdiñ ‘éäch'other; knowing each  other's fears énid'anxietlei aspirations and thoughts" ,  I would add to this: lofty ré efléction that, ‘over and  above this physical of ‘geographical ‘nity ‘of the‘ world  shines thé conviction, radiant as the light of dawn,’  that mankind is oné, Governments’ ‘and peoples re’  coming tô realize that they ‘are {réading the sanie “  path, working togethér on the ‘same tasks, shating -  the same ‘destiny,’ Unity ‘thus meets’ our underlying  spiritual needs and ¢o-operation 1&8 our ‘guiding  policy. Of all torms of co-operation; trite llectusl  co-operation is thé most trüitful: It is the thinkers,  who pave the way for harmony in the minds of mer kad  co-operation in action. It is knowledge that’ enables  the peoples. of different countriés to become acquain:  ted with one another, and the peoples best acquainted  with one another are those bést able to co-operate.                              PLENARY MEETINGS  We American péoples, : through. ignorance of one -  another's way of life; went through a full century  with Tio more contact than it wé Jad bélônged to.  different planets, The unhappy hi story of our con~  tinent has been due Tiot only to the paucity of means  of communication but,‘ above all,- to lack of under-  standing between the peoples Hying there, No co-  ration was possiblé go long as they régarded one  another with fear and stispicion.. Our new awareness  * of our unity and our new désiré for co-operation and  good feeling été certainly the’ host outstanding’  features of our recent history. and tt he best promises  for the future of our peoples; ° per] hape even for man-  kind as à whole, In o¢der that our peoples may reap  the full benefit from the world's civilization, its  “form and purpose must be studied arid clearly  defined, and this is the object of ihe major project  on the mutual appreciation of Eastern and Western  cultural values, ‘We are not pioneers; all we are  doing is to follow gratefully in the steps of our many  predecessors, whose’ praiseworthy efforts have  yielded promising. ‘results; Our task müst bé to tarry  on from where théy have left off, to consolidate what  they have done and to see that thiéir work is carried  further. Intellectual co- operation, which is a need  for present-day civilization and for the future of our  peoples, must embrace all thé Continents, ‘all the  countries of the world- whéthér in the North or the  South, thé East or the West; it must bring together  all men of learning, without distinction of race,  religion or political opinion; it must illumine all men  everywhere and bear the imprint of the brotherhood  of mankind, For all culture myst serve the cause of  universal progress and well-being, The aim of  culture is nôt to press all men of goodwill ints its  service but so to ennoble them that they may live  their lives on this earth in peace and dignity. Science  is indefensible if it forges the weapons of strife  between man ‘and man instead of uniting all peoples  for their jnutual advancement and happiness, ‘To  adapt modern culture to the needs of mankind is the  great task, the supreme ‘mission of ail intellectuals  of this ahd future generations: ‘f am sure that we all  very much ‘appreciate the opportunity this Conference  affords us of meeting so many "distinguished colleagues.  We shall take home to our several countries a deep  and pléasant sense of fellowship with one another -  a sense of the brotherhood of mankind lhroüghout the  ‘world,  it is extremely ditticuit tôt is fo! ove what we do  not know. Ignorance gives tise to estrangement and  strife, , The people of one ¢ontinent’ are still strangers  to those af other’ continents, ‘Nations still mistrust  ‘one’ another, for the legacy’ of past disagteements  and mutual ignorance is éertainly not conducive to  constructive, sincere co-operation,’ The great merit  of the project under consideration is that it proposes  to bring about, or paVe the way for, friendly and  active co- operation’ between all the peôples of the  world, May the resolutions adopted by this Confer-  ence, as the delegate of India said yesterday,  speaking from this platform, be based on profound  faith - faith in the possibility of translating into  facts the 1déas here expresséd and thereby making  the ideal of permanent, world-wide peace into a  living reality.  The Cuban delegation wishes, lastly, to submit for
133     n-10  the enlightened consideration of this assembly it. .  views on the ‘question of decentralization and on the  administrative principles most likely to bring  efficiency and economy to bear in the pursuit of  Unesco's aims;-änd particularly on the Unesco  Regional Office for thé Westerri Hémisphere, which  it is proposed to close down, In this connexion, may  I remind you that my country played an important  part in bringing Unesco lñto being? “Unesco cannôt be  regarded as a kind of generator. which, operating from  Paris by a remote control system, as a distinguished  intellectual put it, ‘’electrities" all countries so as  to enable them to derive full benefit from education,  science and culture, Unesco's world-wide task is to  set a standard; its mission is to further the ideal of  peaco through culture, So far as practical work is’  concerned, Unesco will have to depend increasingly  on local activities in individual countries or  geographical regions for reaching the great masses  of the people. In other words, Unesco must, if it is  to become more effective, further decentralize its  activities and work through geographical regions or  groups of countries with common interests or  similar problems,  Unesco took a first step towards decentralization  when it established the Regional Office for the Western  Hemisphere, in Havana, in implementation of agree-  ments reached at earlier sessions of the General  Conferenée. This was à great honour for Cuba and,  indeed, a reward for its untiring efforts, For my  country, both because it is a small country and  because of its geographical position « at the centre  of the Americas - has always inclined to take a"  sympathetic interest in the events that shape the  destinies of other nations and, together with other  countries and more especially the countries of Latin  Americas; has held the view that the solution of the  difficult problems of the world's future is to be found  in cultural co-operation rather than in preparations  for war, It was for this reason that, reiterating a  Cuban proposal adopted unanimously at the Conference  of Chapultepéc, our delegation at San Francisco  suggested the establishment of a Cultural Council  with the same standing as the other organs of the  newly formed United Nations, This suggestion was  not adopted as it stood, but it was agreed to  recommend the holding of a United Nations conference  on cultural questions; and that same year witnessed  the meeting, in London, of the conference which  establishéd Unesco,  Subsequently, at the session of Uheäcofs General  Conference held in Mexicd City (1947), a motion was  put forward, advocating the establishment of regional  offices for Unesco, ‘and Fécéminéndirig that the  Conference should, at its following session ih Beirut  in 1948, decide in which geographical regions of the  world such centres could best advance Unesco's  principal objectives, and recommend the countries  selected for their location to contribute to their  maintenance and provide them with the necessary  preinises. This is not the place for dwelling on the  vicissitudés through which this’ proposal for the first  Unesco Regional Office had to pass in the’ course of  successive Conferences in México City, Beirut,  Florence and Paris, before béing finally approved,  We Latin Americans, whilst regarding the establish-  ment of this office in our midst as a great honour,
1-10  were conscious of, the responsibilities it entailed;  and we hope:  it should bé,” both as an: integral part of Uneséo and  as an institution bélonging to America #s a hole : :  and exercising a continent-wide influence. The -:  effectiveness of the Regional Office for Unesco became  clear at the Régional Conference of National Commis -  sions of the Western Hemisphere, held at Havana in
1950 and attended by; representatives of 17 National  Commiasions * the first such conference to be’ held  under Unesco's wispices, : EN  - This Conference adopted resolutions urging that  the Regional Office be expanded and provided with  the means for carrying out its work; it'also agreed  that the office should prepare. the ground, so. that  American States which were not alreädy- Members  might join Unesco,‘ and National Commissions might  be set up in countries where none had so far, existed.  It was thus that Costa Rica, Chile," Guatemala,  Nicaragua, Panama ard Paraguay subsequently =,  joined Unesco, At this Conference, my. count  voicing the feeling of Latin ‘America, submitted a  draft resolution urging the. strengthening of the  Regional Office for the Western Hemisphere, - now  administered with outstanding efficiency by Dr,  Guillermo Francovich of the University of. Bolivia,  We should be making a ‘serious mistake if, despite -  all the circumstances I have related, and many  others which I have omitted for the sake of brevity,  wa insisted on abolishing Gr cutting down this office,  which is now in the phase. of vigorous action, That  would be tantamount to passing a death sentence on  the office, with all its achievements, regardless of  agreaments previously entered into and of the  admidistrative and financial advantages of decentral-  ization. It would, in short, be putting the clock back.  There should be no. change in the present structure  of Unesco's Regional Oifice for the Western Hemis-  phere, which is in keeping, with the purposes | for ;  which the office was set up, Any. failure of the  Regional Oftice. to develop its, actiyities to the fuit  must bé attributed to lack of staff and funds; this  fact was admitted by the Director-General himself,  when he stated that he would withdraw his proposal  to abolish the office on one condition only - that its  staff be doubled,  Needless to say, our delegation 1 is equaily anxious  that adequate budgetary provision should be made  for the other offices existing or proposed, such às  the Science Co-operation Office at ‘Montevideo, We  sincerely trust that | the. General Conference, in the  face of these just and legitimate arguments, and of  the unanimous desire of the Latin American  countries to see the Regional Office maintained and  strengthened, will agrée to provide it with the  necessary resources, , ,  Lastly, Mr, President and fellow delegates, 1  should like to follow the example of other delegations  in speaking fora moment of the present international  situation, which we cannot iguore.  .  In these difficult, troubled times, when ‘people in  all parts of the earth are living in fear of another  world conflict, the existence of Unesco, is ol vital  importance. The mission of our Organization, like  that of the United Nations, is to advance the cause  of peace and to promote the security and well-  being of mankind, It is our duty in these days to do  the office will be considered, as indeed
134  PLENARY MEETINGS  all in our power. to maintain and strengthen the .  spiritual ties between peoples ‘and continents, RTI  righting mistakes and reconciling seemingly Opposiag  views, and so forging that international solidarity:  which the peoples of Today, se he «1 erémies of  peace ‘and order trampling hus  foot, so greatly need, : The pr  situation and the grave Press à events wes are”  witneséing oblige us to speak frankly, without menial  reservations, Are, we to have’ unity. or discord, inter.  continental co-operation or : subordination of one -  continent to another; economic lridependerce of ;  economic exploitatior it depends on the right  Judgement of the co pétent international organizations,  In view of. the foregoing u ndeniable facts, the .  importance of the lasks how facing the United Nations  and its ‘Specialized ‘Agencies -. Unesco in particular -  is obylous, . And we ha no right, just because there  are difficulties, to. thr in our hand; for true …  success does not mean easy victory; it means the |  slow triumph of the’ per eysrance, talent, patience  and justice that are calléd d forth by every noble cause,  and that go to the bujldipg up of a spirit of mutual.  understanding and. tolerance, : '  At the present juncture; Unesco, like the United .  Nations, has a heavy task to carry out, The work of  restoring and consolidating peace requires all our  efforts. Our watchword must be co-operation, This  is the only way to a prosperous future, to a better  life, for the peoples of all continents and to the  universal advancement of culture,  In conclusion, 1 should like to endorse all the  tributes paid from this platform to India,
(11) The PRESIDENT (Translation): I call upon the  delegate of Argentina.
(12). Mr, MALLEA (Argentina) (Translation trom the  wish - es President, fellow frp os                    principle - as t  This honour ist  addressed to mi ¢  distinction, And, Kk; ivi ‘ ing  called upon to: repre my country | in the hoür o its  liberation, Only by following their true bent can men  and nations fulfil their destiny. Thé three spheres of  knowledge in which are rooted all the : ctivities of  this international undertaking, which, we serve, have  come into being as concrete manifestations of .,  freedom - and by freedom 1 mean that stage that must  be reached to make realities of justice, education apd  science, so that culture finally emerges as the .  culminating expression of those attributes of free  human beings, ‘ )  The Proposed Programme and Budget ‘submitted.  by the Directot-General cannot be ‘conaldered merely  as a set of programmé ‘Activilles, it it is to take on  a meaning and & life of fs: own, Me ber, States ;  must have the déepest and sincerest belief in its  conception : and its aims, for, on this basic assump-,  tion rests the’ whole edifice of the Organization, If  we are in agreement with the contents and possible.  devélopments of the present programme, which will  be followed by other programmes, we must also  s ve ry corner-  ne greater in ze               PLENARY  enter into à Solema undertaking and prepare to  honour it, ‘each State working in ‘thé perticular field  and along the lines best suited to ita tieeds and  - loyally striving to pursue a coherent policy co-  ordinated with that of other Member States, Speaking  as à representative of Argentiva,’ I should therefore  like to draw attention to some of my country's  practical activities in the cultüral and moral sphere,  which have been instrumental in serving the cause of  mankind, the raising of whose standards is consider-  ed by our Organization as its ultimate aim, -  My country has been through such critical times  that it has been impossible for us to report in  .writing on our co-operation with Unesco during the  period covered by the reports of Membér States. We  therefore felt it important to describe here the  systematic new arrangements being made in the  spheres of education and science, which will make  it possible tô maintain yet more profitable relations  with Unesco, This radical change in the structure of  these relations is a valuable development in our  opinion, for our National Commission will thus be  provided with a firmer basis than ever before, Our  country's facilities for education, science and  culture have been progressively placed on a new  footing, which determines Argentina's present  attitude towards Unesco and its co-operation in the  Organization's programme,  A whole series of concerted resolutions are today  restoring order in our country's cultural and  scientific life. A decree of April 1956 provided for  the establishment of the Republic's Natiunal  Commission for Education, Science and Culture, as  an organ for liaison with Unesco; it also stipulated  that relations with Unesco should be maintained by  the Ministry of Education and through the Ministry  of Foreign Affairs. ‘I may say that the National  Commission, the :iembership and functions of which  will be decided ver. our delegation returns home,  will consist of a large number of highly qualified  experts, as befits so important a body and our  country's presént state of cultural development, All  lsvels of education and sll branches of culture,  science and technology will be represented on it.  A technical section fèr Unesco affairs has been set  up in the General Directorate of Culture, coming  under the Ministry of Education; it will be responsible  for handling the administrative and technical aspects  of action initiated by the central organization or by  the National Commission. +  It has been decided to re-establish and grant full  autonomy to the national academies which had  previously been practically abolished, They are now  recognized az asyocialions with full legal status, the  right to draw up their own constitution and to elect  their members without government intervention, to  appoint their officers and staff, ‘and to administer  their own budget, In addition to these rights, which  they are enjoying for the firat time, these bodies are  entirely free to conduct scientific research, without  any interference from the public suthorities, They  have also been granted the right to possess and  administer their own property.  The University of Argentina, whose creation and  growth were made possible by a liberal regime, had  suffered a serious curtailment of its autonomy and  had undergone changes in its structure and in the  MEETINGS 11-10
135  very conditions of community 1ifé and Work + changes  that were incompatible With the free spirit ét inquiry,  It was necessary to take action in this {ied and to re-  instate professors and other staff disnilesed for  political reasons, Efforts were niade | recast the  uniform national system which ruled oul that diversity  called for by differing regional cénditicns,- and the  Chairs of all universities were filled oji a competitive  basis; not even the reinstated professcis were  exempted from the examination. In adiition,  universities were declared to be independent of the  central authorities, thus establishing te principle  of self-government through the agency, of freely  elected staff and student representatives, The  universities were likewise accorded financial indepen-  dence, and arrangements whercby théy can be endowed  with their own financial resources are at present under  consideration, After the right to establish private  universities had besn recognized, subject to regula-  tions to be laid down at a later date, two new  universities were founded - the "Universidad Nacional  del Sur", already in operation and covering Patagonia  and the south of Central Argentina (ils present Rector  is serving on the Argentinian delegation to this  Conference), and the "Universidad dal Nordeste",  serving the north-east of Argentina, The former of  these universities has adopted a special form of  organization, ‘in line with present-day concepts and  regional needs, :  All this process, which is already far advanced,  has required considerable effort, and when it is  completed, at the beginning of the next academic  year, the universities will be able to choose their  own authorities, and will be financially independent,  This state of affairs will be a notable advance, as  compared with the original systom and even with  other universities in the world.  With regard to secondary education, and without  prejudice to the establishment of an independent body  to be know. as the Council of Secondary Education -  the constitution and structuré of which are now under  consideration, and which will deal with all problems  relating to secondary education - preliminary action  has already been takén to create for the authorities,  teachers and pupils new conditions conducive to study  in an atmosphere of freedom, Members of the  teaching or administrative staff who had been dis-  missed from their posts for ‘political reasons have  been reinstated; pupils who, for similar reasons,  had been prevented from cominuing their. education,  have had their rights restored; textbooks have been  revised and political matter deleted from them;  education for democracy, including in particular  teaching about the organization and aims of the United  Nations, has been introduced, In this connexion - à  measure of the greatest importance - a Teachers!  Charter has been accepted; this specifically states  that the purpose nf education is to teach pupils the  principles of free government, in the democratic and  republican form introduced by the National Constit- °  ution of 1853, which has now come into force again.  Secondary school teaching has for the first time  been established as a career in itself, and has been  made independent of political vicissitudes, It  should be mentioned, incidentally, that educativn in  Argentine is provided entirely free of charge at all  three levels - primary, secondary and university.   u-10  Turning to technical education; plans are being  considered for an organisation which will group -  together the industrial and regional schools, the.  vocational schools for women, the technical missions  and agricultural training centres and those which  teach handicrafis and domestic work; this organisa-  tion will also be empowered to deal independently -  with its own particular, problems, As a preliminary  to the establishment of this organization, a statistical  survey is being made of the need for skilled workers  and technicians, in each branch of industry and in  each district, and steps are being taken to revise  study plans and curricula, Application has been  made for the help of an expert from Unesco, which,  in principle, will be forthcoming; and it is proposed  to convene a National Conference on Technical  Training, - .  The National Atomic Energy Commission has  collaborated with Unesco in its activities:
(1) With the financial support of the Science  Co-operation Office for Latin America, it organized  a refresher course for Latin American physics  teachers, with practical and theoretical sections;
(2) It has offered fellowships for Latin American  physicists to study at the Bariloche School of Physics  and at the headquarters of the National Commission;  and
(3) - Of the six experts in nuclear physics, nuclear  reactors and radio-chemistry who are expected in  Argentina in 1957, three will come to Buenos Aires  under the Technical Assistance’ programme,  The Central Directorate of Culture has entirely  ceased to be an official propaganda organization, and  now confines itself to encouraging the freest and  most valuable manifestations of the country's  cultural life, In this connexion, its most noteworthy  activities have included: (1) the establishment of the  Argentine National Théatre; (2) thé restoration to their  former status of the artistic institutions coming  under its responsibility - museums, libraries,  National Symphony Orchesira; (3) the reorganization  and modernization of art teaching - its structure,  plans, curricula and teaching staff, 0  Finally, we have repealed with law that had  abolished thé traditional system of education in  Argentina, as defined by Law No, 1420, which was  based on the indépendence of the educational  authorities and on the prohibition of religious and  political teaching. -…  This was done by the promulgation of a decree re-  establishing the independence of education and allowing  the provisions of Law No, 1420 to come into force  again, - This decree makes provision for the  establishment of regional councils, thus encouraging  decentralization and confirming the principle of  financial independence, |  During recent years, we Argentinians have been  accused, ag a nation, of lack of interest in Unesco's  programmes; This was not quite fair; it was not  the nation, but the Government that showed a lack of  interest, Our presence at thia Conference must be  taken as a proof of our Government's eagerness to  participate in those programmes and to offer all  the help required from us for the successful  implementation of the major project on the extension  of primary education in Latin America, the major  project on scientific research on arid lands and the
136     PLENARY MEETINOS  major project on mutual appreciation of Eastern and  Western cuitural values, . APRES  The first thing needed tor “general action on an - 5  adequate scale is the - establishment of an office tor  publicizing Unesco's aims and activities,’ so as to  bring them to the knowledge of the man in the  street - an office which would serye as à counterpart  to the Havana office in the other hernisphère, ‘The  delegation of Argentina feels that Unesco'a influence  cannot be exerted from à single headquarters,’ KN  according to a centralized systém, We believe, .on  the contrary, in the need for opening further regional  offices. Accordingly,. our délegation has proposed -  the establishment of an Information Centre or Liaison  Office and of an International Dogdmentation Céntre  at Buenos Aires, both to cover the southern part of  Latin America - that is, South Amévica proper - |  without prejudice to.the Havana office; which would  continue to cover the same geographical area as at  present, We feel we can rely oi the support of  delegations from the other Member’ States for the  implementation of this project, We, in our turn,  will support the establishment of whatever offices  may be considered desirable in other parts of the  world,  On the last anniversary of the foundation of the -  United Nations, my country celebrated the revival  of its traditional international spirit, By a number  of governmental and other decisions, the name of  that world organization was conferred upon  educational institutions and public squares, both  in the capital and in other paris of the country, The  United Nations was also referred to in connexion  with other events, including the academic ceremony  arganized by the University of Bucnos Aires, The  people of Argentina gave enthusiastic support to  these events,  As regards direct relations with Unesco, Aryjentina  has very actively supported the Organization's’  programme during the current year, in still other  ways than those I have already mentioned, All'the ;  fellowships offered to Argentina by Unesco, through  the permanent delegation,” have been or are about to  be allocated, My country not only welcomes but is  eager for the co-operation of Unesco and other  international organizations in every possible form,  including, more particularly, the provision of  technicians, -  Under thé programme, “ot Téchnléäl Assistance or  Ald to Member States, Argentinian experts ave. pre-  pared to go to various countries ds education special  ists, a possibility which Unesco is also considering at  the present time. Specialists frôin Argentina took .  part this year in thé Regional Round Table Confers’  ence on the University: Teaching of the Social Sciences,  at Rio de Janeiro, the Expert Meeting on Professional  Training for Journalism, the Regional Conference on  Free and Compulsory Education, at ‘Lima, together _  with the Conference of Ministers of Education, held  in the same city - boih for the purpose of preparing  one of Unesco's major projects - thé meeting of the  Intetgovernmental Copyright Committes, held in-  Paris, and the Unesco-Australia’ Symposium on  Arid Zone Climatélogy with special reference to  micro-climatology, which met at Canberra. Two  of our classics have been published by Unesco -  "Martin Fierro" and "Kecuerdos de Provincia",   PLENARY  the latter with an excellent preface by Bataillon - and  the French translations of these works are now reach-  ing a wide ‘publié, -  . Mr, President and fellow delegates; - what I have  told you about niy country relates to the preparation  or foundation of a system of education, science and  culture which has been undertaken in no purposeless  or haphazard manner, In the way I have described,  my country is directing its thought towards a genuine  rehabilitation of man - now so essential in view of the  lamentable process of disintegration which has -  resulted, in the present century, from anti- democratic  action, with its recourse to persecution, hatred and  ‘the destruction of spiritual values, Present-day man  nesds help in order to become, by degrees, what he  should be - a fearless spirit, assured of freedom to  create, and possessed of his finest attributes of -  reflexion, self-development and conscience, We must  show thet we believe in our fellow men, so that they  may feel that they are of some worth and justified in  believing in themselves, Man is encouraged and  stimulated by a feeling of confidence in his life and  future. And everything that I have just described  will, it seams to me, tend to increase his stature,  net to diminish him,  I have spoken at length, at the risk of being tedious,  but I felt that by relating a few positive facts and  describing our well-planned, constructive activities,  I should be acting in accordance with the principle of  this Organization, to which we are proud to belong,  and which is based on the lofty desire to secure for  the human race "more freedom, more justice and  more peace’.
(13) The PRESIDENT (Translation): I now wish to be  excused, and ask your permission to leave the Con-  ference. I request the delegate of France, who is a  Vice-President, to take the Chair,  (Mrs. Lefaucheux (France) took the Chair. )
(14) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  Icall upon the delegate of Yugoslavia,
(15) Mr, BÜLAJIC (Yigostavia): Mr. President,  ladies and gentlemen,’ “the fact that this session  coincides with the tévth anniversary of our Organiza-  tion gives it, in a'cértäln'séñse, a particular  significance, and points to the need for a review -  even a superficial one - of thé work so far accom-  plished; actually this has been done successfully by  some of the previous speakers,  The Yugosliv delegation corsiders that the balance  sheet of Unesco's work so far is'a ‘positive one,  Unesco has gréatly contributed to the development of  international co-operation in the ‘fiélds of education,  science and culture, and to the solving of” important  current problems in these fields. Of course, this  does nof mean that there havé not beer any à short-  tomings or gropings’ {n the seeking of the best’  solutions; t hey are’ quite natural, considering the  broad field of our Organization's activity dnd the  special character of its work incertain régions of the  world, But it is a fact that the constructive observa-  tions and suggestions made by certain countries have  bétu taken into account, and that the work of Unesco  has been improving from year to year. Undoubtedly
137  MEETINGS     I-10  the development of the activities of the National -  Commissions, on whose labour and efforts the work  of Unesco as a whole largely depends, has been a  significant contribution to that end, :  One of the most obvious facts suggesting'a a  favourable assessment of our Organisations work is  that, today, -78 countries are taking part in it,:I  would like to take this opportunity to welcome the  newest Members of our Organization, Tunisia and  Morocco,‘ At the same time, I wish to express my  regret that the representatives of the People's  Republic of China are not present at this session;  their absence considerably affects the principle of  Unesco's universality, while their participation would  facilitate, inter alia, ‘the fulfilment of the tasks  provided for in our programme,  The fact that the Members of our Organisation -  include some 20 countries which attained independence  immediately after the war indicates, not merely that  the principle of universality will soon be observed,  but also - and this is of great importance for the work  of our Organization - that today we have a new world,  implying new tasks and requiring new forms of inter-  national co-operation,  As regards Unesco's programme for 1957-1958, we  consider that it is basically sound, takes account of  the constructive observations inade by various  delegations at the previous session, and assigns more  importance to a balanced relationship between the  general and the special tasks of our Organization, I  do not intend to go into the programme In detail at  this stage, since we shall have opportunities for a  more detailed discussion in the Programme Commis-  sion, However, I would like to say that, in the  opinion of the Yugoslav delegation, Unesco should  devoté greater attention to young people and youth  organizations, The éxperierice we have gained/so far  shows thal youth organizations can, and do, greatly  contribute to the fulfilment of the basic tasks  incumbent upon our Organization.  In this connexion, the Yugoslav delegation has  submitted to the Generäl Conference a draft resolu-  tion concerning the need for establishing closer co-  operation with national youth organizations and  assigning them a more {important role,  As regards the East- West major project; we vive  it our full support, We considér that it is one way of  advancing the necessary general process of a  rapprochement between the nations and better mutual  understanding among the peoples of East and West --  à process whiéh goes on daily, in the most varied  forms.  The impleinentation of this project should be à  contribution by olir Organization to the ‘positive ‘  development of this process and to the gradual  elimination of all the obstacles retarding it.  It hardly néeds, I think, to be sald that an  essential condition for the achievement of Unesco's  aims ls'a struggle for the respect of a few basic’  principles - the’ principle of the indépéndétice ‘of  each and every country; the prificiple of the equality  of rights of a ‘countries, great and small,’ developed  and undeveloped; and the principle of tion: ‘{nlérteréhce  in the national affairs of other nations. To this I would  add the need for a struggle against the ideological  exclusiventss from which our Organization has not  yet entirely freed itself,   o-10  Without the fun application of these principles, it
1s not possible to deyelop mutuel confidence among  the peoples of the world,  - :  The course of events in ihe last two years led us  to hope that a coréect path fo the solying of the .  world's’ outstanding’ problerny, had Leen found, The  idea that all international problems could be solved  in a peaceful way was gaining ‘groind, However the  events of the last few days, and particularly the  armed aggression launched against Egypt by Great  Britain, France and Israel, have dealt a heavy blow  to these hopes, Unfortunately, this will necessarily  have a negative influence on the process of rapprockx.-  ment and better understanding between the peoples  of the East and the West, .  Nevertheless, ‘such methods have been condemned,  to an extent so far unknown, by the whole of world  opinion - which gives us fresh hope that peace will  be preserved, : and fresh conviction that the solution  of all problems can and must be sought on the basis  of the principles which I have mentioned, And it is  only natural that this general condemnation should  be reflected in this Conference,  We know that Unesco is not primarily’ a political  organization, but we also know that Life and human  activities as a whole are pormeated by politics.  Today, especially, our Organization cannot ignore  the political problems that face the whole of mankind  and upon whose solution the preservation of peace in  - the world - and consequently the work of Unesco -  depends,  I think we all agree that Unesco's work cannot be  measured solely by its programmes and the means  available to it, ‘In the course of its 10 years of  existence, our Organization has acquired great moral  authority. It has linked together the best intellectual  forces now available to mankind, Are we nol, today,  confronted with the question of a fuller mobilization  of all these forces, for the solving of the many  difficult problems which face the contemporary world? :  Allow me to indicate just one of these problems -  that of the development of undeveloped countries,  and of the relations between developed and undevelop-  ed countries, The idea that this is one of the greatest  problems of the, world today is, I think, becoming  daily more tirmiy. ‘established,  The gap which at presont exists between developed  and undeveloped countries is a very. deep one, The  world, although aware of the gravity of this problem,  does not yet sufficiently. appreciate the urgent need  to solve it. It would be wrong to think that the world  can wait much longer before it bridges this gap. In  present circumstances, we cannot regard the problem  of international assistance to undeveloped countries  merely as the expression of à form of human  solidarity. That assistance must ba, regarded  primarily as {incumbent upon mankind in order to  eliminate inequality of economic development, since  such inequality represents a potential danger to  peaceful and equal co-operation and an obstacle to  the creation of a more harmonious world, The  elimination of the backwardness and ignorance which  still afflict almost half of humanity also depends on  the solution of this problem,  Today we are living in an era of atomic energy,  automation etc,, which meaus that considerable  progress has been made in the development of
138  PLENARY MEETINGS  productive forces, The problem of the undeveloped  countries becomes even more acute in the light of  that progress,  I have stressed here only one of the major problem  for which a solution is sought, although I am aware  that it cannot bé solved by Unesco, Nevertheless, .  because of {ts moral authority and of the intellectual  forces which it associates, Unesco can at least  contribute to the seeking of an appropriate approach  to the problems which are facing mankind today,  Moreover, all these problems will inevitably have an  impact on the future activities of Unesco, and our  Organization should seek methods appropriate to such  problems, -  This in no way means ‘hat our Organization should  reduce its effort as regards the action it is engaged  in now, On the contrary, these activities, far frum  excluding one another, are interdependent.  So far as Yugoslavia is concerned, I would like to  point out that our country's experience, as regards .  co-operation with Unesco, is positive; We are  grateful for the assistance we have received from  the Organization so far, and we shall continue in the  future to contribute to the realization of its aims,  We also want to express our thanks to the Executive  Board, to the Director-General and to the Secretariat  for their efforts to achieve the successful implements-  tion of the Organization's considerable programme,  In conclusion, I would like to associate myself  with the previous speakers in oxpressing our gratitude  to the Indian Government and to the Indian people for  the warm welcome extended to us and for the organisa.  tion of this Conference in New Delhi. I think it would  be superfluous to speak of the contribution of India to  the attainment of Unesco's aims, and of her efforts to  preserve world peace and to promote peaceful co-  operation among the peoples of the world. India's  policy speaks for itself.
(16) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):
1 call upon the head of the delegation of Saudi Arabia.
(17) Mr. ALFOZAN (Saudi Arabia):: Mr, President,  and fellow delegates, I wish I could address you in my  mother tongue, Arabic (the language spoken by one.  hundred million and understood by four hundred Ki  million Muslim readers of the Koran), or at least in  Hindi, the language of the host country; but as there  is no arrangement for the translation of languages .  other than Russian, French, Spanish and English,  and as I have a knowledge of English,. 1 am addressing  you {n that language today, ! hope that my shortcom-  ings due to language difficulty will be overlooked.  May I, in the name of Saudi Arabia, its Government and  its people offer warm and sincere greetings to friends  assembled here, and wish this Conference, on their  behalf and on behalf of my delegation, all the success  it deserves, My delegation is very happy tobe in  India and it expresses its sincere thanks to the  Government and people of this great country for their  great hospitality. - a hospitali which is one of the  true characteristics of the indien people.  What could I say on tho international situation,  particularly in West Asis, after the President of this  august Conference has expressed his views and the  great leader and Premier of India has made known -  his feelings? I fully associate myself with what  +   PLENARY  they have said on the situation in West Asia, : The  Egypiian delegate expressed his views and quoted the  opinion of great leaders like the President of the  United States of America, Mr; Elsenhower, and  Lord Attlee, ‘of the United Kingdom, ‘These views  strongly emphasiiéd the importance of peace in the  world and abstention from the use of force and ‘  aggression; but one ‘delegate mentioned that the  United Kingdom went into Egypt in ordér to stop the  fighting, - May I ask those assembled here whether  , stopping fighting ot preventing the spread of aggres-  sion is achieved by helping an aggressor against  Egypt and by boinbing ¢ivilians in Egypt? Egypt was  not an aggressor, and has not provoked anyone; yet  we are told that the presence of the United Kingdom,  and her ally; in'that area is for the preservation of  peace or for preventing fighting from spreading to  other areas, We should all be more realistic and  "call a spade a spade!’. I only hope that better  wisdom prevails before. it is too late,  I must confess that I was expecting a’ cé-dnlegate,  Mr, Aynayn of the Saudi‘Arabian Ministry of  Education, ‘to come with all the facts and figures  that were to be placed before this Conférence; but  the dislocation of air services and the situation in  West Asia has so far prevented his arrival, All  that I can tell this Conference is that under my .  great, good and popular King, His Majesty Saud,  Sovereign of Saudi'Arabià; my country has made  trémendous all-round progress, especially in the  field of health and education. We are spending more  on education today than we have ever done before,  We are adding daily to the number of schools and  colleges In our country, and it has been the policy  of Majesty's Government to see that no area is  left without educational provision, We have been  fighting illiteracy with all our resources, and are  making our contribution to adult education, Recently  we have opened, in one area known as Jezan, 130  schools for girls alone,” We have, today, 2,310  schools; and the ‘students, s who number some 80, 000  are encouraged by such things as food and cash  allowances, provided for those of small means. We  have at present 3, 800 instructors and 3, 400  ‘professors, -teachers and assistants, A number of  palaces belonging to His Majesty at Jedda, Mecca  and Rlyad weré presented ky my Sovereign to the  Ministiy of Education, which has converted them  into schools for the children; We have under con-  sideration - the plans are ready - the establishment  of a modern university,’ to be known as King Saud I  University. Apart from elementary, middle and  secondary schools, we have opened and are ;  expanding schools for technical and mechanical  - instruction, In our last budget we tarmarked for  education 50, 000, 000 Saudi ryals,. which corres-  ponds to between 67 and 68 million Indian rupees,  We have achieved something; but much more remains  to be done, and I am entirely confident that His  Majesty's Government is proceeding, surely and  reliably, to meet all the country's educétional  requirements, We have a large number of students,  in different parts of the world, pursuing specialized  studies and we have a number of teachers from  neighbouring Avab countries, who teach specialized  subjects, In all modesty, I may be permitted to say  that Saudi Arabian children are in no way inferior  MEETINGS
11-10  to the children of any other country; they are bright  and quick to learn, and have a great future in-  prospect, :  My delegation wishes to record its deep apprecia-  tion of the international services rendered by Unesco  under the able direction of the Director-General and  his staff,  Finally,: let me pray with all my heart; and I am  sure your hearts will join me, that the Almighty  will come to the rescue of this unsettled world, and  that peace, plenty and prosperity will continue and  increase.
(18) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon the head of the Canadian delegation,
(19) Mr. ' BROCKINGTON (Canada): Mr, President,  ladies and gentlemen, - with a sense of honour and  pleasure I speak to you in the name of the delegation  of Canada." To my land throughout the years have  come millions of men and women of many peoples.  They came seeking new horizons of hope and happi-  ness for themselves and their children, Amongst our  citizens are those who once came from almost every  nation represented in this hall, They and their sons  and daughters, by their skills, their arts, their  character, their faith and their honest labour, have  added new strength and beauty to the fabric of our  free Canadian citizenship, whose privileges and  duties they proudly share, If we Canadians then can  make a contribution to the work of Unesco, we do  not forget what we owe to many peoples, - As brother-  men, therefore, we salute all nations gathered in  this place, and as Canadians we pay tribute to those  who are in very truth our Canadian motherlands,  It is also my pleasant duty to join our Canadian  voices in the chorus of gratitude and admiration  which hails the splendour of India's preparation for  our welcome and our deliberations, We indeed  rejoice to be amongst a people so gentle and so  courteous, This I know, that when the time comes  for us to depart, we shall all cherish the hope that  some day we may rolurn again. May I say also,  Madam Vice-President that it is a high privilege -  to see the workings of this laboratory of liberty, and  to witness in this great land a new freedom being  forged - so valiant and, let us pray, so successful  a determination to bring to every human life in this  teeming sub-continent a new opportunity for  fulfilment and enrichment, and a better share of the  fruits of the earth and the rewards of man's labour.  We also wish to thank you, Mr, Director-General,  and you, officers and counsellors of Unesco, for your  dedicated labour. - rever forgetting however those  hundreds of men and women whose names are unknown  to us, For in distant and sometimes dangerous places  they are devoting their lives to hard tasks for the sake  of mankind, with lasting honour to themsalves and to  the Organization whose humble and steadfast servants  they are.  We join, too, in the universal welcome to the  membership of Tunisia and Morocco, and express  our happiness that they have found their way to this  assembly along the highroad of freedom. .  It is also our Canadian wish to clasp the hands of  the delegation from Nigeria, which has taken its  place as an Associate Member, With what graceful
1-10 PLENARY MEETINGS  and generous courtesy its spokesman announced.  their impending nationhood, Soon the Federation of  Nigeria will become the partner of Canada in the  brotherhood of the Commonwealth, And may all our  African brothers,’ and our Caribbean brothers also,  discover the truth spoken by the late Prime Minister  of New Zealand when he said that membership in the  Commonwealth is not freedom with something taken  away, but freedom with something added,  We have met under. the shadow of violence and  conflict, and this delegation was deeply moved by the  calm wisdom and the sad sincerity of the speéch  made by the Prime Minister of India at the beginning  of this Conference, I think all those who are present  here today kiiow the efforts which Canada and India  have made, and will continue to make, to bring the  world back to the sanity and sanctity of an honourable  and just settlement in the Near East, and to ensure,  wherever they can, the substitution of the force of  law for the law of force wherever violence rages,  We hope that Unesco will always bé a household of  free, friendly and fruitful discussion and debate,  and that above the thunders and clamours of the -  raucous world there will always be heard the voice  of reason and what the poet calls "the still, sad -  music of humanity”, Foremost of all liberties, said  one of the world's great voices, is the liberty to  know, to utter and to argue freely according to  conscience. Perhaps, even in these difficult days,  we can all take some comfort from knowing that,  even today, no stronger criticism of the disputed  policy of the United Kingdon Government, no freer  or more vigorous denunciation of its dangers, has  been spoken or written than in famous British  newspapers freely published in Britain itself, in  public meetings freely assembled in Britain, - in  earnest debates freely held in a free British  Parliament, and wherever men gather in Britain  to hamzñer out the truth on the anvil of free discus-  sion. There at least we see, in real and vital action,  some of the basic freedoms approved by the words  of Unesco.  Now this I believe is the most important meeting  of any United Nations organization hitherto held in  the East, ‘There {s among the Greeks an andient :  verse recording this epitaph! “And if Iam a Syrian,  what wonder ? We all dwell in one country, O  strer Tr, the world - and Chios is thé mother’ ot  us ali.’ Now we in Canada, who are the beneficiaries  of the gifts of so Tnany other pedples, ‘believe that  there is only one race in the world which'is really  important; namely | the human race, “So we are  determined to pay with’ reverence dur debt to -  humanity - never to ‘despair of human dignity and  independence not of the majestic ordinarinéss of the  individual man, aid ever to give a value immeasur-  able and eternal to the humblest of human lives. We  often recall the words of the French philosophet,  Renan, that the good Lord häs written one senténce  of his thought upon | the cradle of every race,” And  so, in spite of vui* personal shortcomings aid the  failings of each one of us in this hall, do we not  represent or at Jéast try to represent all that is best  in our lands,” and not what is worst? For it is my  faith that nearly every great teacher since thé world  began, every supreme artist, every wise philosopher,  every great religious thinker has had a passionate
140     belief in that mysterious union of mankind, the...  mystic bond of human brotherhood, And so we. Have  gathered here in this ancient, wise land,. so rich in  art and philosophy, For too long we of. the. West have.  beon blind to the beauty. ot. the. East, ;unmoved by is  sorrows, deal to its teaching. If this is à gathering,  as I believe it to be, of glad teachers and of glad’ .  learners, 1 believe that we of the West can. take away  with us, in the gifts of Eastern wisdom and pationce  and tolerance and humanity, far more than we can ‘  bring. While we are all properly sind. passionately  anxious to see standards of education and literacy  rise throughout the viorld,. let us always remember  that, particularly in nations which have known the .  "drip of human tears upon the centuried years", . .  there can be found among unlettered men, humble .  tillers of the soil, ‘village § hilosophers and wayside  teachers, a wisdom and a humanity which are pari  of the folklore of mankind and are a most precious  heritage for us all, For democracy itself, as an ,  eloquent American has said, .is really a method of  accounting for everyone, through the little works.  of many hands, the little lovés of many hearts, the  little light of many minds. ....  Canada has been, since Unesco's earliest days,  an enthusiastic supporter of its objects and ideals.’  While we have already heard many variations on  these ancient themes, it is hoped that our delegates,  consulting with those of other nations, will make a  modest contribution to the approval of sound and  useful programmes and the insistence on efficient -  administration and financial responsibility. It has  been our view for some years that the resources of  Unesco have been scattered over too wide a range of  activities; We all know what it is to long for the  infinite and to be brought face.to face, daily, with-  the multiplication table, But since resources are  not infinite, it is our view that we should concentrate  on practical projects of paramount necessity,  deferring or eliminating others of a lower priority,  We are particularly interested in the progress of -  education and in the exchange of persons, especially  of teachers and students; and in a world where it is  often sald that sciencé darkens men's minds and,  hardens men's hearts, we will strive to help to tirn  its achievements to the needs and ways of peace, and  to emphasize the spiritual and moral values of  scientific research, We are particularly interested  also, for reasons which I-have tried to indicate, in  -the exchange of so-called cultural activities between  the East and the West, And we look forward to the  day when Western students will in growing numbers  study in Eastern universitiés. For I often wish that  there were more Western scholars who had a  knowledge of Eastern literature and thought compar-  able to the amazing mastery and knowledge of the  English tongue, and of English and American  literature, which I find amongst so many of my Indian  friends.  Now, ladies and gentlemen, there is an Italian  proverb which the English have adapted as follows  for théir own use: “Words are the daughters of |  earth, but things are the sons of heaven", and I hope :  that this session will result in many great accomplish.  ments. In Canada, from where I come, pessimism is  a sort of cowardice, and optimism a sort of courage;  and I always remain an optimist. And I believe that   PLENARY  even the fires which are burning around us today are  refining fires; which some day will cleanse the earth.  For it Is my faith that the heayens lie on all lands and  on all peoples. The shadows only fall when thé sun is  shining, and it is always morning somewhere in the -  world, And as we travel hopefully on our journey, I  recall for your comfort, as they have often been for  mine, words once spoken by the great Scottish writer,  Robert Louis Stevenson, when he wroté his ‘Essay  on El Dorado”, This is what he said; "All toiling  hands of mortals, all wearied feet, .travelling with or  not with us... Soon, soon it seems to you you must  come forth upon some conspicuous hilltop and yet a  little further, against the setting sun, descry the  spires of El Dorado", ; Little do we know our own  blessedness; for to travel hopefully is a better thing  than to arrive, and true success isto labour. And as  I wish you well, : ladies and gentlemen, in the clash  of opinion which will finally be resolved in the search  for truth in this Conference, I would like to give  expression to a personal memory, Many yéars ago I  read in the London "Times" the story of a Mohammedan  Indian prince opening a Salvation Army hostel in the  East End of London, and he spoke these wise words:  "You may wonder how I, an Indian and a Mohammedan,  can be dedicating in London this Christian hostel, My  friends," he said, "truth is like a precious jewel; it  has many facets",  I leave you with that thought, and I pledge the whole-  hearted support of my delegation to the freedom of  your deliberations and the wisdom of your conclusions.
(20) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon the delegate of Viet-Nam,
(21) Mr. DUOUNG-DON (Viet-Nam) ‘(Translation  ‘from the French): Madam President, -ladies and  gentlemen, Viet-Nam joins other Member States of  Unesco in paying a véry sincere tribute to the  splendid arrangements made by the Indian Govern-  ment for the present session of the General  Conference. The unstinting efforts made by India,  as by the States which were responsible for the  organization of the first eight sessions, bear  testimony to the universality of Unesco's aims and  the wide range of its activities.’ .   The Director-General's report on Unesco's  achievenients' in 1955 and the first six months of 1956  afford ample; irrefutable proof of the scope and com-  plexity of the Organization's work in the various  tields of cultural life throughout the world. :.:  As the Executive Board did not decide upon any  particular theme for this Conference's discussions,  I should like to rèvert to a subject that was discussed  at Montevideo but is still very pertinent to the  management of Unesco!'s affairs; I refer to the *  decentralization of the Organization's activities, A  working party of the Programme and Budget Commis-  sion was set up by the General Conference at its  eighth session to study possible arrangements for  such decentralization, But I am not entirely  "satisfied with its findings; for it seems to me that  some of the old attitudes and concepts have taken  - such firm root that they have prevented the ~  programme we adopted for Unesco in Montevideo  from being carried out in full, and the new programme  before us from going far enough in the direction of
141  MEETINGS I-10  decentralization, . Document sc/ PRG/23 (Report by  the Director-General. on the proposed establishment,  ‘by groups of National Commissions, of offices for  co-operation’ with Unesco, ‘in compliance ‘with .  resolution IV, 1, 7, 13 adopted | by the | Montevideo  Conforenée) is eloquent in this respect, it informs  the Conference about the ‘partial, if not total, failure  to give éffect to the resolution in question, ‘despite  the efforts made first by the Indian National  Commission and then by a senior official of the Indian  Government to set up at New Delhi an office for co-  operation with Unesco, ; .  The Viet-Namese delegation, which was in favour  of this resolution put forward by the Indian delegation,  and which voted for it in the Programme Commission,  had hoped that it would not only provide an effective  and logical means of decentralizing Unesco's work by  placing more responsibility on the National Commis-  sions, but also afford a good opportunity. of curtailing  expenditure on the foûr Science Co-operation Offices  maintained at great cost in Latin Amerlca; the ‘Middle  East, South Asia and South East Asia, The. subsequent  proposal to set up a Co-operation Office in New Delhi  was not what we had hoped for, It appeared from this  proposal, submitted to the Director-General of .  Unesco on 26 December 1955, that the Co-operation  Office In question was designed to serve as a link  between Member States and National Commissic:s  in South and South East Asia and between these  bodies and Unesco, The office was to have assisted  Unesco in formulating programmes and projects  sulted to the needs and aspirations of the region and  in carrying out programmes and projects approved  by the General Conference,  It is stated, in paragraph 7 of document 8C/PRG/23,  that at the Regional Meeting of Representatives of  National Commissions for Asia, convened in Tokyo  last February, no reference was made to the Co-  operation Office provided for in resolution LV, 1. 7, 13;  the centre which the Tokyo meeting proposed setting  up would merely be designed to study Asian needs  and problems.  In other words, there is a clear difference, nay ;  complete disagreement,. between the interpretation  of resolution IV. 1,7: 13 given by Professor Humayun  Kabir and the Tokyo Regional Meeting of Represent-  atives of National Commissions, on the one hand,  and Unesco's view of the Co-operation Office, on the  other, Resolution IV, 1, 7, 13 should result in decen-  tralization of Unesco's work by making National  Commissions instead of Unesco responsible for the  implementation of particular chapters or paragraphs  of Unesco's biennial programme, and not in mere  co-operation or collaboration on a modest scale, with  all the main work being left to Unesco.  The problem of decentralizing Unesco's activities  by transferring responsibility for them to the National  Commissions therefore lnoms as large as ever. And  there will be just as great a call on Member States  for the financing of Unesco's programmes - perhaps  even a greater cdll if the Organization's ambitions  are to be allowed wider scope each year.  According to the budget estimates for 1957. and
1958, the four Science Co-operation Offices - in  Latin America, the Middle East, South Asia and  South East Asia - will cost a total of $296, 987, The  main function of these offices will be to organize
1:10  training and refresher courses où the techniques and  methods ised in the marine sciences, to promote  - research on the humid tropical tone and the arid zone,  and to encoutage studies on the peaceful uses of  atomic energy. ‘In addition to these courses, ‘studies  and research, arrangements will be made for  symposia, science talks and visits to research centres  established within the territory of Member States in  the region. LL _  “The time bas come to consider whether all this  work could not be carried out by the National Commis-  sions in the five continents, or whether, if the  National Commissions wère used in place of the Co-  operation Offices, the Organisation's whole work  would thereby be jeopardized, - © =  Recourse té Science Co-operation Offices or other  co-operating bodies was warranted - even desirable -  in the days when thé National Commissions had not  been set up or firmly established iñ all Member  States. The staff and equipitient requiréd were a  heavy financial burden for Unesco. By now the  Science Co-operation Offices dre overlapping with the  National Commissions, which are becoming steadily  stronger and more effective. They are also overlap-  ping to some extent with the intérnational science  associations receiving subventions from Unesco.  If ali the Organization's science and other co-  operation offices are to be closed down one day, it  would, in our opinion, be advisable to revert to  resolution IV. 1, 7. 13 of the Montevideo programme,  diffidently incorporated in resolution 7, 12, paragraph  D, of the 1957-1958 programme, and to apply it.  systematically, In other words, we should foster the  development of National Commissions, bringing them  to co-opératé more closely with Unesco, in conformity  with the principle of a decentralization of activities.  The General Conference should give effect to  paragraph 7 of the Conclusions of dotument 44 EX/29,  approved by the Executive Board at its 44th session,  wherein the Board,” after considering the structure  and operation of existirig National Commissions, gave  its views regarding their future, their réle and their  effectiveness. "In so far as they are active bodies",  stated the Board, "the National Commissions are"  excellent agents for decentralization. As things are,  they themselves aie individual cogs in d world-wide  organization; they help to prepare and implement the  programme, making sllowdnce for each country's  needs and whatever adjustments may be required;  they organize seminars, disseminate information,  send exhibitions on tour, püblish translations etc; in  a word, ‘they are Unesco at thé national level,  "They also act as a decentralizing agent by  organizing meetings of twc, three, four, five or more  of their number for the implementation of a part of  thé programme. - revision of school textbooks,  seminars; establishment of institutes or research  centres. +" Co  The final conclusion reads as follows: "The  National Commissions could doubtless play an even  more important part-in the decentralisation of  activities, The machinery is there and it is working;  strengthened, and tested daily, it will certainly  render great services’. -  Believing in the latent potentialities of the National  Commissions, ‘as logical instruments for decentral-  ization, and especially in those of Unesco, the
14     PLENARY MEETINGS  Executivé Board would liké to see {hé National :  ..  Commissions play an essential part'in the Organisa-.  tion's activities throughout the world; they.should  not remain mére channels for information of agents ‘  for liaisct between Unesco and their respective ‘  countries, When'all National Commissions for."  Unesco - from Asia and Europe, ‘the Western and  the Eastern Hemisphere = show by their well- |  informed, energetic approach to Unésco problems .'.  that they have reached full maturity, when they *;; 7:  effectively represent Unesco on the various inierna~  tional educational, scientific and ¢ultural organization  active in their own countries, then Uneaca's role wili  be purely one of co-ordination and supervision; for :  the Member States will be responsible for carrying  out Unesco's biennial programmes, each according  to its capacity and its geographical situation,  However, the implementation of Unesco's '  programme, whether it be the responsibility of the  Organization itself or of the National Commissions,  seems to us to raise an interlocutory question,  Unescô!s biennial programme adopted at  Montevideo, and the programme now before the  Conference, bear on too matiy problems which are  not of specific concern to Unesco, a  When, in November 1954, the Programme and  Budget Commission was called upon to discuss the ..  question of the peaceful uses of atomic energy and  the question of cell growth, some delegatés advocated  leaving such matters to other mote competent bodies,  to other Specialized Agencies of the United Nations,  However, the adoption, by the General Conference at  its eighth session, of resolutions relating to those  questions, has established Uriésco's right or duty to  concern itself with thers and to mobilize its resources  accordingly, Will thé General Conference at New.  Delhi follow the example of the Montevideo session.  with regard to those parts of Unesco's new biennial  programme which relate to nuclear energy, cell  growth and other questions of that kind, even though  the Organization's expénses are thereby increased  year by year?: We do not know yet, But we wonder  how far Unesco is to interfere in matters unconnected  with its essentially cultural mission of world-wide .  importance - for instance, questions such às  regulations concerning the transport and distribution  of isotopes, for purposes of their utilization in  industry, or the éstablishment of a cell biology -  institute or laboratory having attached to it a centre  for the breeding of rare or inbred strains of plants  and animals, : ; … . 2  By proceeding in this way, Unesco would unquestion-  ably be weighing itself down with a host of unproductive  activities and impairing the unity of its work, More  serious still, the man in the street would no longer be  able to make head or tail of Unesco!s activities, In |  addition to this bewilderment of the. general public, we  would have to reckon with a vast burden of expenditure,  which cannot be increased indefinitely. The increases  in Unesco's budget may not have been excessive to .  date; the problem of Unesco*s technical assistance to  the economically and culturally underdeveloped Membei  States has been largely if not entirely solved by-  Unesco's participation in the United Nations Expanded  Programme of Technical Assistance, But the funds  appropriated for this purpose depend on the support  given by Member States of the United Nations; they   PLENARY  are liable to be drastically cut down at any time, and  Unesco would then find itself with’slender resources  to carry on its beneficent and emancipating work in  the world, It would therefore ‘do well not to add  indefinitely to its activities, not to take on endless  commitments with which it would be powerless to  cope with its own unaided resources, On the  contrary, it should use those resources to finance  activities which are indubitably within its competence,  which form part of its crusade against ignorance and  its disastrous effects.  Then again, Unesco is not the only United Nations  body working for the emancipation of man. Many of  the tasks now devolving upon Unesco are also of  concern to the World Health Organization, the Food  and Agriculture Organization or the International  Labour Organisation and could be carried out by  them. ‘ Co ;  This means that thé movement towards decentral-  ization that is making itself felt in Unesco's policy  could begin by an apportioument of responsibilities  between the various Specialized Agencies of the  United Nations, on the basis of a common programme  aimed at helping all peoples to shake off the yoke of  ignorance, want and disease, the next step being to  apportion the activities included in Unesco's own  programme between Member States and the  Organization, which would co-operate actively with  National Commissions, There would then be no  further fear of overlapping in the activities of the  various Specialized Agencies, the risk of one  encroaching on another's special field of competence  would be averted, and the Organization's programme  would acquire greater unity and coherence,  Unesco would continue to devote its main energies  to the development of education, science and culture  throughout the world, in the interests of progress  and civilization, without venturing into fields in ‘  MEETINGS
143  I-10  which particular interests alone are at stake, in  which the practical consequences of a discovery  concern other organizations more competent and  specially fitted to deal with them, in which the’  political or social need for regulating sonie question  lies outside Unesco's scope and periains to another  international authority, in which, lastly, Unesco's  striving for broad cultural co-operation, its campaign  against ignorance and its disastrous consequences,  are pointless,  These, ladies and gentlemen, are the thoughts  that have occurred to the Viet-Namese delegation on  studying the Proposed Programme and Budget which  the General Conference is required to consider and  vote on, to infuse new life into the Organization for  the two coming years, I wanted to put them to you  quite frankly, .  In conclusion, I should like to express, on behalf  of the Viet-Namese delegation, our heartfelt wishes  for Unesco's prosperity and success, In the times  in which we live, this Organization affords the best  grounds for confidence in the complete liberation of  mankind and in loyal, brotherly co-operation between  the nations.
(22) The President (Translation from the French):  I call upon the Director-General.
(23) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL: Madam President,  it gives me pleasure to announce to the General  Conference that Morocco has completed all of the  steps necessary to become a Member State of  Unesco as of 7 November, and that Tunisia has done  the same as of 8 November. I think we all are glad  to welcome these two delegations now, as fully-  fledged delegations to the Conference,  The meeting rose at 1,15 p.m.