PROGRAMME COMMISSION v-12  yotitg on the global budget implications; the issue  would be reverted to when the totals were examined.
(40) Mr. MARQUIS (United States of America) undor-  . stood that the vote concerning the Cologne Institute  meant that the budget figure only was amended, with-  out prejudice to the Comminsion's wish to have the  Institute's administration thoroughly reviewed,
(60) Mr, THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) sug-  gested that the United States recommendation, if it  was accepted by the Programme Commission, should    be inserted in its entirety into the Commission's report  so that it might become a directive to the Director-  General and the Executive Board.
(51) Mr. VITO (italy) asked that the United States  recommendation be incorporated in the summary  record.  Agreed,  The meeiing rose at | p.m.  TWELFTH MEETING
21 November 1956, at 3,30 p,m.  Chairman: Mrs. MYRDAL (Sweden)  ITEM 9.3 OF THE AGENDA: SOCIAL SCIENCES (continued)  (documents 90/8 and Addenda and Corrigende)  {1} Replying to a question from Mr. MARQUIS (United  States of America), the CHAIRMAN confirmed that,  at its previous meeting, the Commission had voted to  restore the original budget provision under paragraph
3.6 Social sciences and problems of international  understanding (paragraphe 110-135)
(3) Mrs, SCHLUETER-HERMKES (Federal Republic  of Germany) (Representative of the Executive Board)  said that the Board's recommendations regarding  resolution 3, 62 and project 3,621 would be found on  page 17 of document 9C/5 Addendum 1 (paragraphs
82 and 83).
(3) The CHAIRMAN sald that the Polish delegation  had submitted a draft resolution in connexion with  resolution 3. 62 (document 9C/DR/83),
(4) Mr, VITO (Italy) recalled the doubts, expressed  by many delegates at the eighth session of the General  Conference, about the use of thé term "international  understanding" in connexion with the section under  discussion. Thoue doubts had been allayed by the |  wording of the resolution, which had authorized the  Director -Géneral to make an objective study of the  means of promoting peaceful co-operation. Member  States had expected to receive from the Director-  General a report on the atudies he had made, but had  only received infor mation about the holding of some  disciplinary and interdisciplinary meetings which had  resulted in the making of two general suggestions,  namely: that a co-ordinated study should be made of  the various aspects of the historical evolution of the  concept of peaceful co-operation and of ths economic
358  relations between countries with different economic  and social atructure. With regard to the first sugges-  tion, he had the impression that all that was involved  was a definition of the term "peaceful co-operation”,  and the second concerned a topic which had been dis-  cussed by economists for a long time, Before agree-  ing to resolution 3, 62, authorizing the Director-  General to continue hig activities, it would be useful  to have information as to what those activities had  been. He hoped that the Secretariat would let Member  States have a document containing full information  about the studies made by the Director-General, to  enable them to express their views on the subject,  He then drew the attention of the Commission to para-  graph 129 of Corrigendum 1, in which the Department  proposed making certain material available to the  Department of Mass Communication for wider dissemi-  nation, and advised proceeding very cautiously with  any such project.
(5) Mr. BERTRAND (France) did not share Mr. Vito's  doubts and personally was entirely in favour of the  project. All sorts of preliminary work had already  been done on the subject of the proposed studies, in  some instances by representatives of particular dis-  ciplines or sometimes; as at the Conference held at  Geneva in July 1956, by représentatives of all branches  of the social sciences, He did not dispute that the  themes selected had been dealt with to some extent in  the past; the novelty lay in aranging for a joint study  of them by experts from both East and West, thereby  promoting the growth of international co-operation in  the sphere of the social sciénces.” ~~  In that connexion, it would be à good thing to arrange  meetings of young professors and students for the doc-  torate for the study of the topics {n question; the  younger generatiôn also should be anabled to take part  in the study, to the success of which they could make  a great contribution. By way of example he drew   IV-12  attention to the happy results of the Franco- Polish  meeting that had recently taken place in Paris; he  earnestly trusted that other meetings of the same type  could be arranged at frequent intervals,
(6) Mr, SAMBURSKI (Israel) thought there was no  need for the Commission to take document 9C/DR/83  into consideration in its discussions, The emphasis  placed in that document on the strengthening of sym-  pathy between countries with differing economic and  social structures seemed to exclude the need for  strengthening sympathy between countries with similar  ones. Unesco's duty was to do its utmost to strengthen  all bonds between all countries. That aim was already  clearly expressed in the Constitution and any attempt  to express it in other words was entirely superfluous.
(7) The CHAIRMAN explained that the resolution had  been considered by the General Committee, which had  decided that, as it had been received too late, it was  not receivable, On her own insistence, it had been  finally agreed that its paragraph 4(a) could be con-  sidered by the Programme Commission when it dealt  with future programmes, and that the suggestions con-  tained in paragraph 4(b) could equally well be con-  sidered in conjunction with its discussion of work plans,
(6) Mr. YERUSALIMSKY (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) sald that the problem of peaceful coexis-  tence was exceptionally important and very urgent,  and that the Soviet Union was devoting great attention  to it, He spoke at length of how that problem had been  discussed in detail and from every angle at the Geneva  Conference of experts held in July 1956, and attended  by representatives of States with differing social and  economic systems - Hungary, Poland, Czechoslovakia,  the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the United  Kingdom, the United S'ates of America, France,  Switzerland and Sweden, He said that, at the Geneva  Conference there had, in addition to plenary meetings,  been meetings of specialized groups of experts (on  political science, economics, legal questions and  sociology) each of which had made {ts own contribution  to the decisions which were discussed and approved  at Geneva, Thus the Geneva Conference, convened  on the praiseworthy initiative of Unesco's Department  of Social Sciences, had set on foot important and  useful work, which should be continued. Mr,  Yerusalimsky spoke of the spirit of co-operation  reigning at the Geneva Conference, in which experts  from various branches of science, representative of  various countries and - a very important point - of  countries living under different social and economic  systems took part, . He thought that, if the Italian dele-  gate had been at the Geneya Conference of experts, to  which Italy also had been invited, he would have under-  stood the significance of the project under discussion  much better than be appeared to do. In any case, Mr.  Yerusalimsky emphasized, neither the Italian delegate  nor those supporting him had produced. of could pro-  fluce any arguments to warrant cancelling thé work of  the experts on the various different aspects of peace-  ful coexistence, go successfully begun at Geneva,  There was no reason to fear that the project would,  for propaganda puoposes, be distorted in such a way  as to cease to further the aims for which it was  initiated. In any case, the Soviet experts would
360     PROGRAMME COMMISSION  ee fay Alempt which ing be made to  use that project for propaganda ends contrary to its  true purpose. At the Gensva Conference, all the studies  had been carried out with the greatest possible imper-  tality and the experts taking part in it had had only ome  aim in view: to apply scientific methods to the study of  all the problems before them,  On behalf of the Soviet delegation, therefore, Mr,  Yerusalimeky supported project 3,621 as a whole, He  would firmly oppose any attempt to distort that project  or to postpone its implementation. He thought that, in  pursuance of the decisions taken at the Geneva Con- -  ference of experts, round-table conferences should be  convened in 1957, and leading experts from countries  with differing economic and social systems invited to  attend. He stressed that, in accordance with the deci-  sions of the Geneva Conference of experts, a large  interdisciplinary conference on problems of peaceful  coexistence was to be held in 1958. In conclusion, Mr,  Yerusalimsky was in favour of increasing the appropria-  tions for carrying out that project as a whole.
(9) Mr. LEE (United States of America) indicated that  his Government supported the general outline of the  programme set forth in section 3,6, He drew attention,  however, to the necessity of limiting the work and of  keeping it strictly scientific in character, in view of the  uncertainty as to what Unesco and the soclal sciences  could achieve {n the area of mutual understanding,  Until it was clear that the results of the studies were  substantial and generally acceptable, he agreed with  the delegate of Italy that great caution should be used  in disseminating them, He was of the opinion that  Unesco should proceed slowly, that it should make cer-  tain that the investigations were not corrupted by the  political atmosphere of the time, that consultations were  adequate in terms of disciplines and countries involved,  and, finally, that it should work towards a long-term  utilization of social studies to achieve its aim, .
(10) Mr, SCHAFF (Poland) sald that in his view it wae  essential that draft resolution 9C/DR/83 submitted by  the Polish delegation be considered in its entirety at  some stage, either by the Programme Commission or  by a plenary meeting of the General Conference.  However, as the question of the draft resolution had  been raised, he wanted to give the Commission some  explanation of the considerations in the light of which  it had been drafted,  The Polish delegation considered that the problem  of peaceful coexistence was, at the moment, of vital  importance and that a closer understanding between  countries with differing social and economic systems  was an essential element in the solution of that prob-  lem, In particular, the delegation was anxious for  closer cultural ties between the capitalist countries  and the peoplés! democracies, between the peoples of  the West and of the East. ;  It was true that the major project on mutual apprecia-  tion of the cultural values of East and West should pro-  mote such a strengthening ‘et cultural ties between the  countries in the two groups; apparently however the  studies to be made under the major project were to be  focused rather on the civilizations of antiquity than on  the forms of culture characteristic of the States of  modern times. Yet it was a better mutual appreciation  of those latter forms of culture that the Polishdelegation   PROGRAMME COMMISS'ON  regarded as most important from the point of view  of peaceful coexistence and, unlike some members of  the Commission, it did not believe that it was dan-  gerous to go thoroughly into the problems posed by  the existence in the contemporary world of social and  economic systems which differed profoundly from one  another. On the contrary, provided always that it  wes pursued in a truly objective spirit, any work  which might be undertaken to that end should prove ex-  osedingly fruitful,  K was with those considerations in mind that the  Polish delegation had drawn up draft resolutions
9C/DR/83, in which one of the recommendations made  to the Director-General was that he "study the possi-  bility of presenting to the General Conference, at its  tenth session, a major project for the furtherance of  a reciprocal knowledge of cultural values between  countries with differing social and economic systems".  The Polish delegation were also anxious for the  Director-Gencral to encourage the growth of such  mutual knowledge under the 1957-1958 programme,  Many of the activities which should be undertaken for  that purpose came within the province of the Depart-  ment of Social Sclences, and the project under discus-  sion was, up to a point, in line with the desires of the  Polish delegation. The international conference of  sociologists held two months previously in Amster-  dam had yielded interesting results and, as the dele-  gate of France had remarked, a valuable feature of  the proposed studies was that they would be carried  out jointly by specialists from a wide range of  countries,
(11) The CHAIRMAN hoped that the Commission  would agree on the procecure to be followed with re-  gard to document 9C/DR/83, especially as she had  ‘resciied it at the General Committee on the grounds  that certain parts of it could be discussed by the Pro-  gramme Commission, She suggested that the Secre-  tary should be asked to remind the Commission of  paragraph 4(a) when {t came to its discussion of the  future programme,
(12) Mr, VITO (Italy), in view of the references  which had been made to his earlier remarks, explained  that his point had been that Member States should be  tent a document giving an account of the studies made  by the Director-General so that they could determine  the most effective way of dealing with the subject. He  had not suggested rejecting the project. The delegate  of France had perhaps found a solution to the main  problem in his suggestion that groups of experts  should consist cf equal numbers of representatives  from the different areas of the world, although the  doubt still remained whether the criteria for peaceful  co-operation depended on the composition of study  groups. .  Referring then to the necessity of maintaining a  scientific approach to the studies, he pointed to the  meeting of the World Congress of Economists as an  ¢xample of how meetings could be restricted to the  scientific aspects of problems. Unesco could not have  succeeded better. ; '  In conclusion, he informad the delegate of the Union  of Soviet Socialist Republics that he had not received  an invitation to the Geneva Conference. He would  always be ready to accept invitations to attend meetings
361     Iv-12  wheres objective conditions of study vere assured.  {13) Mr. MARSHALL (Director, Department cf Social  Sciences), replying to the remarks made by the dele-  gate of Italy, said that the economic subject had been  chosen by a meeting of social scientists at which  economics was represented by, among others, the  President and the Treasurer of the International Fcono-  mic Association, Reports of all the meetings held  would be sent to Member States. The reports of the  Geneva meeting were with the printers ami would be  sent to Member States as soon as they were available,  With regard to the Geneva meeting, an invitation had  been sent to and accepted by a representative of Italy,  That representative had not, however, attended the  meeting,  The wording of paragraph 129 in Corrigendum | had  been approved by the Executive Board. He fully  appreciated the need for care in connexion with dissemi-  nating information on the studies which were being  undertaken.  Two parts of the plans for the project were designed  to ensure that the studies would be scientific and  objective. In the first place, attention was to be con-  centrated on social systems which could be objectively  studied, and, secondly, the work would be done through  international associations of social scientists, The  relationship between those assoclations and Unesco was  good and close, 80 that the Department could guide the  development of the programme. It was, however,  essential that a certain measure of freedom should be  allowed, as the best subject for discussion and the best  composition of tre group of experts for a particular  discussion could not be exactly foreseen, He hoped  that the Commission would have sufficient confidence  in the Secretariat to permit it to dacide on the measure  of freedom to be allowed to the assoclat'ozs,
(14) Resolution 3, 61 was unanimously adopted.
(15) Resolution 3, 62 was unarimously adopted.
(16) The Commission, noting that the budget provi-  sions in Corrigendum 1 were larger than those in docu-  ment 9C/5, approved the revised programme.
3.7 Social sciences and problems of human rights and  minorities (paragraphs 136-161(a))
(17) Mr. OCHS (Secretary) stated that there was a  draft resolution submitted by Czechoslovakia (document
9C/DR/64) relating to that part of the Social Sciences  chapter.  Referring to document 9C/5 Addendum 2, he drew  the Commission's attention to the chbservations on the  section forwarded by the World Jewish Congress (para-  graph 4), by the International Council of Women (pera-  graphs 10 and 11) and by the International Movement  for Fraternal Union among Races and Peoples (para-  graph 21).
(18) Mrs. WADIA (India), having noted from the  Director-Genaral's Report on the activities of the  Organization for 1955 that several projects on the rights  of women were being undertaken and that the new pro-  gramme made no mention of those projects, asked  whether they had been completed or given up. Unesco   IV-12  was co-operating in the work of the United Nations  Commission on the Status of Women in connexion with  the right of women to education, but there was much  leeway to be made up in other directions to put women  on a per with men in underdeveloped countries, She  suggested that Unesco should inquire into the position,  and undertake studies which would make the full educa-  tion of all women possible, She would move a formal  resolution on the subject, if that was necessary.
(19) Mr. MARQUIS (United States of America) thought  that some of the phrases used in the preamble and the  text of resolution 3,72 gave the impression that the  Social Sciences could aécomplish more than thay  actually could; and suggested that théy be amended to  give a more accurate picture of what could be done,  He suggested that the preamble be amended to read:  "he Director-General is authorized to take appro-  priate measures to reduce or eliminate as much as  possible race prejudice detrimental to social harmony".  Paragraph (A), as drafted, authorized the Director-  General to deal directly with teachers rather than  with Member States - a procedure which was beyond  his terms of reference. He suggested, therefore,  that it be deleted and that the following paragraphs  be relettered accordingly. The exisiing paragraph  (E) adequately expressed what paragraph (A) hoped to  accomplish,
(20) Mr, BERTRAND (France) had a suggestion to  make about resolution 3.71, The French delegation  would like National Commissions to direct their atten-  tion to promoting the introduction in primary and  secondary schools of systematic teaching aba out racial  questions and the siruggle against race prejudices,  in which extensive use would be made of Unesco's  publications, The teachers taking the subject would  be asked to provide National Commissions with infor -  mation, for transmission to Unesco, on the results  secured, so that the publications in question could be  amended as requisite.  Mr. Bertrand also hoped that the work provided for  in paragraph 147 would devote considerable space to a  study of the status of women in the various territories  mentioned,
(21) Mr, LYNKOV. 7 (Byelorussian Soviet Socialist  Republic) stressed his country's keen concern with  combating racial prejudices, which, in some coun-  tries, indeed, were even reflected in the laws, While  he supported project 3,721, he would like more atten-  tion to be dévoted in it to measures calculated to  eliminate such prejudices. He hoped, too, that  Unesco would consider meking fuller use, for the  same end, of the resources available to the Depart-  ment of Mass Communication,
(22) Mr. VITO (Italy) agreed with the delegate of the  United States of America that the wording of resolu-  tion 3.72 was unfortunate. It was not the exclusive  prerogative of Unesco to eliminate racial prejudice,  and he thought that it would therefore be more appro-  priate to reword the preamble to read: "The Director-  General is authorized to contribute towards reducing  or eliminating race prejudice......".   (23) Mr. ZAMORANO (Chile) thought that a solution
362  PROGRAMME COMMISSION  to the problems under discussion could only be reached  as a result of extremely complex studies and investiga-  tions. As he inderstood it, the racial problem was  psychological in nature and accordingly intensive counter  measures were needed from the very beginning of a  child's gchool life, .  He would like the "Guide for Teachers' to be trans-  lated iito Spanish and, with regerd to the information  to be supplied to school-teachers on the race question,  he urged that a slight amendment be made to resolution
3.72 to specify that the advice was to be furnished  through Unesco National Commissions,
(24) Mr, de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) was happy  tobe able to say that in his country the elimination of racial  prejudices was an accomplished fact, However, though  she might serve as an example to other countries in  that respect, Brazil still attached much importance to  Unesco's efforts to combat such prejudices wherever  they still survived.  With regard to the wording of resolution 3,72, be  wondered whether the Commission could not agree on  a form of words which combined paragraphs (A) and  (B) to form a single paragraph stipulating that Unesco  should endeavour, by the publication of scientific and  educational works, to eliminate racial prejudices’ and  to supply teachers with information on racial questions  and advice on the way to present such information to  their pupils. It was quite obvious that the Secretariat  could not uo what paragraph (A) scemed to suggest and  make direct contact with teachers, but it should be  easy enough for it to use its regular publications to  reach them,
(23) Mr, FALARDEAU (Canada) was in favour of the  proposal of the Unitéd States delegate that paragraph  (A) of resolution 3,72 be struck out,  He was afraid that the yearbook referred to in pare-  graph (D) of resolution 3.72 and in paragraph 150 of  the Social Sciences chapter might well prove an ex-  tremely odd publication. Incidentally he did not be-  “ Meve that it was possible, with the appropriations pro-  posed, to effect publication of a yearbook of that type  on a satisfactory basis.
(26) Mr. NAVRATIL (Czechoslovakia), commenting  on the Czechoslovak draft resolution (document
9C/DR/64), explained that the sole intention was to  introduce an amendnient into paragraph (C) of resclu-  tion 3.72, to jucorparate an idea which wont with thet  already contained therein. The principles informing  the amendment were identical with those which resolu-  tion 3.72 as it stood was designed to uphold and the  only aim of the proposed ameudment was to define the  project's purpose more explicitly. .
(27) Mr, FERNANDEZ de la MORA (Spain) said that  his delegation supported resolution 3.71. . With regard  to resolution 3.72, they favoured the Brazilian proposal  thst the elimination of racial prejudices should be ex-  F'icitly stated as an aim.  They were likewise in favour of the translation into  Spanish of the "Guide for Teachers".  With regard to the word "integration" in paragraph  (C) of draft resolution 3.72, the equivalent term in  Spanish could imply n forced as well as a peaceful  process. The words "various ethnic groups and races”   PROGRAMME COMMISSION  in the Czechoslovak draft résolution seemed to be two  ways of saying exactly the same thing; his own dele-  gation was mainly interested in the concept of race.  Secondly, with regard to the words "... peoples which  do not yet enjoy full independence .,.", also used in  the Czechoslovak draft resolution, "race" and "people"  could not be equated. While he agreed that what the  Csechoslovak delegation was seeking to do was clear  enough, he thought the wording unhappy and accord-  ingly suggested that the last part of paragraph (C)  should refer to the recognition and protection of the  rights of minorities,
(28) Mr, DIAZ-GONZALEZ (Venezuela) was in favour  of the project, subject to acceptance of the Brazilian  proposal,  {39) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) agreed in prin-  ciple to the wording suggested by the delegate of the  United States of America for resolution 3,72 but was  prepared to leave the final decision to the Chairman,  While not wishing to detract from the importance of  the subject of race relations, he doubted whether the  preparation of a yearbook, as suggested in paragraph
150, was the best means of making Unesco's views  on it known to countries. He thought that the $8, 000  for that purpose could be put to better use.
(30) Mr. MARQUIS (United States of America) was  pleased to learn that other delegates agreed that  resolution 3,73 required rewording, and stressed  that he had no wish to compete with other delegates  as to the final wording adopted. He was prepared to  leave the matter of the final wording of paragraph  (A) to the Secrétariat, on the understanding that no  suggestion was made that the Director-General should  come into direct contact with teachers.  He associated himself with the remarks of the dele-  fate of Spain concerning document 9C/DR/64. The  terms used were not clear,  He agreed that the question of the proposed year-  book should be re-examined. Drawing attention to the  fact that the United Nations issued a yearbook on race  relations, he asked whether Unesco would have suf-  ficient additional information to issue one too.
(31) Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General)  agreed that, though no misunderstanding was pcesible  as to the intention behind draft resolution 3.72, there  were clumsinesses in the wording which it would be  desirable to remove. The Secretariat was at the  entire disposal of the Commission, whether that body  elected to undertake the necessary recasting itself or  to put it in the hands of a small drafting committee.
(32) Mr. CHEDIAK (Cuba) thought that account should  be taken of certain earlier remarks, and wished it to  be specified cledrly that the work in question should  be carried out in co-operation with the United Nations.
(33) Mr. MARSHALL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences) referring to the point raised by the delegate  of India, said that Unesco had done much in the past  in connexion with women's rights but did not propose  to give special attention to the question in the 1957-
1958 period. Unesco had initiated a project to study  the political rights of women in Asia; it had sent
363     IV-12  invitations to the countries concerned but the response  had been insufficiént to warrant a continuation of the  project. That being so, it had been decided to confine  activities in that field to participation in the work being  done by the United Nations,  With regard to Unesco's publications concerning  teaching on problems of race and race relations, after  assuring the delegate of Chile that arrangements had  been made to have Spanish translations produced, he  said that the Department wanted to have the comments  of Member States on them. That was a subject for  which the collaboration of National Commissions would  be appropriate.  The proposed publicetion of a yearbook on race rela-  -tioris was a new venture, intended to survey the results  of scientific research in the field during the year and  the contributions made by the social sciences, It was  intended for the use of scholars and not for the general  public, Similar information, intended for wider  dissemination, was given in a series of booklets. While  it was true that such information might be included in  the register of research, he did not think that it was  likely to be s0 included.  He endorsed the views of the delegate of the United  States of America on the resolution contained in docu-  ment 9C/DR/64. The second sentence of that resolu-  tion appeared to have deep political implications, and  there was no budgetary provision in the present pro-  gramme for studies of that kind.
(34) Mr. VIANU (Rumania) pointed out that so far no  speaker had raised the question of the measures to be  taken to ensure respect for the rights of the minorities  in each nation. The minorities problem, which had  been conaiderably aggravated following the first world  war, had been happily resolved in his own country,  where the members of the 15 existing minority groups  enjoyed the same rights as all other citizens. That  waa, he thought, an example which could profitably be  followed. In any event, the problem of minorities was  an extremely important one and should not be neglected.
(35) Mr, WEEDEN (Australia) remarked that the  Australian National Commission was concerned about  the proposal to publish a yearbook on race relations,  and wondered whether the expense was really warranted.  He asked whether it would not be possiblé to introduce  the experiment through existing publications, such as  the Social Science Bulletin, rather than risk being  saddled for a period of years with a publication, which  might not be successful.
(36) Miss TRINIDAD (Philippines) supported resolu-  tions 3.71 and 3.72. She drew attention to a Philip-  pines Government publication on "Understanding and  observing human rights"; and suggested that the  material it contained might be used as a basis for ex-  plaining to other countries what measures could be  taken to teach people about human rights. Copies of  the book had already been circulated to Member States,  some of which had shown great interest in it, It might  be possible for the Commission to consider providing  for its translation into other languages.
(37) Mr. MARSHALL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences), replying to the delegate of Australia, said  that the Department would be most reluctant to give up   IV-12 PROGRAMME  ita proposal to publish the yearbook. It would be  possible, however, to adopt some scheme whereby  the Department would not be committed to continue  its publication indefinitely.  He could not see where any saving in expense could  be obtained, as, even if it were included as a special  issue of the Social Science Bulletin, it would ptill be  necessary to make contracts for the work and to pur-  chase materials for its publication.
(38) Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) thought  that, as far as the yearbook mentioned in paragraph
150 was concerned, it might be possible to meet the  views of the Canadian delegate by avoiding the use of  the term "yearbook", with its implied commitments  for years subsequent to the 1957-1958 period. A work  of the type proposed could well be issued during the
1957-1958 financial period and a decision taken whether  to continue it or not thereafter, according as it was  judged satisfactory or otherwise.
(39) Mr, MARSHALL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences) suggested that the publication could be  called "Trend report on research in the field of race  relations". It could be published when sufficient  material was available to warrant an edition, and no  obligation to publish annually need be undertaken.
(40) Mr, WEEDEN (Australia) moved that the work  plans for the project outlined in paragraph 150 be  altered in such a way that the proposed publication  could be made through existing publication channels.
(41) The proposal was seconded by the delegates of  Denmark, the Philippines and the United Kingdom.
(42) The CHAIRMAN suggested that the Commission  first take a decision on resolutions 3.71 and 3.72 and  then come back to the proposal made by the delegate  of Australia.
(43) Resolution 3.71 was unanimously adopted.
(44) At the auggestion of the CHAIRMAN, the Com-  mission agreed to entrust the Secretariat with the  preparation of a new text for resolution 3.72, on the  basis of the amendments proposed and of the proposal  contained in document 9C/DR/64, noting that only a  difference in wording was involved in the various pro-  posed amendments.
(45) The CHAIRMAN then explained that it had been  suggested that the proposed yearbook be renamed or  published through existing channels. The proposal of  the delegate of Australia to publish the yearbook  through existing channels was, in effect, a propoaal  to reduce the estimates for the project by $1,760,  that being the amount estimated for printing costs.
(46) Mr, MARSHALL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences), replying to a question from Mr. de  BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil), said that it would be  possible to publish the yearbook in tentative form  through existing’channels. He did not think that it  could be published in the Social Science Bulletin, but  it could be published in separate documentary  form.    COMMISSION
(47) The CHAIRMAN put to the vote the Australian  proposal to reduce the estimates for the project by  $1,760.
(48) The result of the vote was a tie, there being 20  votes in favour, 20 against and 3 abstentions,
(49) The CHAIRMAN then informed the Commission  that, under Rule 90 of the Rules of Procedure, it would  be necessary for a further vote to be taken on the  Australian proposal within 48 hours.
3.8 Cultural integration of immigrants (paragraphs
(50) Mr. OCHS (Secretary reported that comments on  that section of the Social Sciences chapter {document
9C/6 Addendum 2), had been received from the Interna-  tional Labour Organisation (paragraphs 9 and 10),  from the United Nations (paragraph 10), and from the  International Council of Women (paragraph 12).
(51) Mr, VITO (Italy), while appreciating the work  done by the Secretariat in the field of cultural integre-  tion of immigrants, expressed disappointment at the  downward trend of the budget for that work. He drew  attention to the fact that the sum estimated for 1958  was to be spent on staff costs only. He understood  that those costs were to enable work already started  to be contimied, and suggested that they should also  include the preparation of new work. Plans for new  work could be submitted to the General Conference at  its tenth session.  He moved that resolution 3, 82 be amended to read:  "The Director-General is authorised to promote studies  on the cultural integration of immigrants and to render  advice....,". His proposal had no budgetary  implications.
(52) Mr, MARSHALL (Director, Départmént of Social  Sciences) said that much useful work had been done in  the field of cultural integration of immigrants and it  had been thought wise to devote a period of time to a  study of the consequences of that work. The decision  to devote 1958 to a study of that kind did not exclude  the possibility of undertaking further work in the  field in the future,  The proposal of the delegate of Italy was acceptable  to him, on condition that the word "promote was not  interpreted as meaning "finance research".
(53) Resolution 3.81 was adopted, with 5 absientions.
(54) Resolution 3.82, as amended, was adopted, with
1 vote against and 5 abstentions.
(85) Referring to paragraph 154 (page 92 of document
9C/5), Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) asked why staff costs  were to amount to $7,861 in 1858 whereas other costs  would become nil,
(86) Mr. MARSHALL (Director, Department of Social  Sciences) explained that the allocation of money for  staff costs in 1958 was necessitated by the fact that  staff would be required to analyse the results of studies  undertaken and to make plans for future work.
(57) The Commission approved the budget proposals  of the Director-General.
(58) The CHAIRMAN informed the Commission that  it would be necessary to finish the study of the chapter  on Social Sciences during a night meeting to be  arranged during the following week. The chapter on  IV-13  Mass Communication would be the subject of discus-  sion at the Commission's next meeting.  The meeting rose at 6,40 p.m,  THIRTEENTH MEETING
22 November 1956, at 10.30 a.m,  Chairman: Mrs.  ITEM 9.5 OF THE AGENDA : MASS COMMUNICATION  (documents 9C/5 and Addende and Corrigende, documents 9C/PRG/11,  “ 12, 14, 15, 16 and 17)
(1) The CHAIRMAN informed the Commission that it  was rather behind its schedule; a Saturday morning  meeting and night meetings were almost inevitable,  She opened the discussion on Mass Communication by  suggesting that the sub-items could be dealt with in  conjunction with the programme chapters, except  items 9.5.3 and 9.5.4 of the agenda, which would be  considered separately.
(2) Mr. GJESDAL (Director, Department of Mass  Communication) said that the Organization's task In  the field of mass communication was a challengé; the  Constitution stressed the need of communication bet-  ween peoples by the free flow of (deas and images.  The Montevideo working party on mass communica-  tion had recommended certain measures of reorganiza-  tion which were dealt with in the Director-General's  report, document 9C/PRG/11. Mass media demanded  a flexible work plan, but a definite pattern had emer-  ged in the last years, The proposals contained in  the 1957-1958 draft programme reflected that pat-  tern more markedly than before.  The main tasks of mass communication were:
(1) the development of mass media and the free flow  of information; (2) the general promotion of interna-  tionalunderstanding; (3) infor mation for the public on  Vnescço's work and achievements. A unifieddirectionof  effort {nall three of those fields was indispensable.  Information media were free and should remain so -  any interference with them was strongly resented -  but Unesco should help fn the improvement of journ-  alistic training, formulate new projects for exchanges  of radio programmes, and promote the establishment  of a system of international co-operation among film  and television interests. Mr. Gjesdal welcomed the  Franco-Italian resolution (document 9C/DR/5) on  that subject,  Free flow work was being continued by a painstaking  effort to remove obstacles (examples would be found  in document 9C/PRG/16) and by mass media research.  The programme submitted was concentrated on mass  communication problems as such - which had seemed  tobe the most rewarding approach. The essential require-  ment in that field was closer contact between National  Commissions and mass media in the Member States.  For the promotion of international understanding, it  was proposed that Unesco should mobilize the active  support of non- governmental organizations - a realm  of great possibilities, The next few years would  prove whether that policy was right or wrong. The
365     MYRDAL (Sweden)  programme was designed to meet the need for  information material by production and distribution.  The continued efforts to help the press, television,  radio and cinema would be intensified, No specific  proposals had yet been madé with regard to Mass  Communication's participation in the major projects.  Increased United Nations assistance had been received  through their network of information centres. The  keynote of the programme was concentration and econ-  omy; its budget represented a considerable saving  in comparison with the 1955-1956 period, A reduc-  tion of nearly $280, 000 had been achieved by pruning  the special activities and staff costs by 10 per cent,  while the staff of the Depaitment had been reduced  by 8 per cent, The reduction would have been in  the neighbourhood of $330, 000 if the Russian-language  edition of the "Courier" had not been initiated, The  economies had been effected with the minimum dis-  turbance of the Department's activities and the olear-  ing house. for instance, had received accrued im-  portance. The programme and budget were mainly  in accord with the Montevideo resolutions and new  projects would be difficult to fit into the streamlined  programme, but the Director-General had authorized  Mr. Gjesdal to say that he was prepared to consider  changing Mass Communication's allocation for 1959-
1960 in the light of the next two years experience.
(3) The CHAIRMAN thanked Mr. Gjesdal for his  introduction to the debate, and called upon the repre-  sentative of the Executive Board and the Rapporteur  of the Committee on Reports of Member States, *
(4) Mrs. SCHLUETER- HERMKES (Federal Republic  of Germanÿ) (Representativé of thé Executive Board)  stated that the Board had'adjouirned discussion on  document 9C/5 Corrigéndum 4 and that she was  therefore unable to pass on to the Coinmission any  of its comments on the Director-General's proposals  for the use of the additional $1, 000, 000,
(5) Mr, BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur of the  Committee on Reports of Member States) said that,  in its examination of the reports of Member States,  his Committee had been particularly interested in  those items relating to the free flow of information  and the promotion of international understanding.  The reports submitted were often imprecise and  confused - and sometimes silent - with regard to  those topics, A few isolated instances of really  excellent action had, however, been noted. The  Committee had expressed the hope that the Programme  Commission would give close attention to the pro-  blems of Member States' participation in mass com-  munication work and, more particularly, to: (a) the