x-2         snternaiiérial ubderstanding (à field id which action by  Member Siatés was énsent ), the ‘development, of  scientific research, the development of ‘social science  teaching, the question of "culture and international  understanding” , etc.” Each working party would then  appoint a Rapporteur ‘and the thrée Rapporteurs would  act às a kind of drafting committee.
(12) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) thought the procedure  ‘suggested had much to recommend it but, unfortunstely,  the Committee could not réach any decision until the  following day's meeting,    COMMITTEE ON -REPORTS OF MEMBER STATES
(13) Although Me; ‘Mshéu' 8 comments had been  provocative and Antérésting, ‘Mr, MéCULLOUGH-  (United States of America) agreed with the rr ;  of France that the Committee could not discuss them  until more of te members were present, 7
(14) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director : :  General) stated that the Committee would adjourn  until 31 October at 10,30 a.m. The Committee would  first have to elect its officers and then draw up its ;  time-table and decide on its method of work.  The meeting rose at 12,30 p.m,  SECOND MEETING
31 October 1956, at 10.30 a. m.  Chairman: Mr. ZIEGLER (Austria)  ELECTION OF THE CHAIRMAN, VICE-CRAIRMAN A D BAFPORTEUR
(1) Mr, MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) opened the meeting and called upon delegates  to elect the officers of the Committee.
(2) On the proposal of Mr. BRUNSVICK (France),  seconded by Mr. UNAKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics), Mr. Ziegler (Austria) was elected  Chairman,
(3) Mr. ZIEGLER (Austria) took the Chair and  thanked members for the honour they had conferred  upon him, He then called for nominations for the  office of Vice-Chairman.  (a) Où the proposal of Mr. UNAKOV (Unios of Soviet  ‘Socialist Republics), seconded by Mr, McCULLOUGH  (United States of America), Mr. Peiris (Ceylon) was  elected Vice-Chairman of the Committee.
(5) Mr: PEIRIS (Ceylon) then proposed that  . Mr. Brunsvick (France) be elected to the office of  Rapporteur of the Committee.  {6) That proposal was seconded by Mr. KAN TIOURN  (Cambodia) and adopted unanimously.  PROPOSED ORGANIZATION OF THE compres WORK  (n In reply to a question from Me, M cCULLOUGH  (Utited States of America), Mr, MAHEU. (Representa-  tive of the Director-General) explained that, because  of the practical difficulties of providing interpretation  services, and in order to avoid breaking up the -  Committee 's work too much, it would be better to set  up only two working parties instead of the three he  had proposed the previous day. The working parties    ne  ‘  =  - would be responsible for ‘preparing the ground for the  Committee, und would take no decisions.  Answering a second question from Mr.. McCullough,  Mr, Maheu defined the Committee's ‘competency: it  was required to consider the extent to which Member,  States were taking part in the implementation of the  programme or, in other wordé: (1) what were the  interests of Member States; (2) means of informing ‘  the Secretariat of their interests; (3) the extent of  their participation; and (4) the machinery for their  participation, It would communicate its findings to .  the Programme Commission in the form of a written  general report which could be supplemented by oral  statements by the Rapporteur during the discussion of  certain sections of the programme,
(8) Mr, "BRUNSVICK (France). (Rapparteur) added .  that the Committee was. also expected to deriye from  the reports some ides of what could be. asked of  Member States and, in particular, was to consider ‘  why certain resolutions Anvolving heavy responsibili-  ties for the Organization were not mentioned in the  reports of Member States, It was its business to ’  guide the discussions on the technicalities of the  execution of certain projects, connected with the  structure of National Commissions, and to work out  suggestions regarding methods, ete. .
(9) Mr. ‘McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  supported the proposal of the French delegate,  although he felt that the Committee shouts not be too’  ambitious at its curréut session. ould be wiser  perhaps to work towards the aims où ined by  Mr. Brunsvick in the hope that the reports of Membér  States and the report of the Director- General would  ,run on more parallel lines in the future, thus facill-  tating a comparative analysis. He ‘agreed that the  Programme Commission would find it useful to receive   COMMITTER ON REPORTS OF MEMBER STATES  guidance concerning projects that did not appear to  evoke much response in Member States.
(10) Referring to the suggestions regarding working  parties made by Mr. Maheu, Mr, PEIRIS (Ceylon)  proposed that two such working parties be established  by the Committee.
(11) That proposal was seconded and adopted  unanimously.
(12) Mr, MAHEU (Representative ‘of the Director-  General) proposed that the terms of reference of the  working parties be fixed, The first might be  instructed to study the sections of the prograinme  coming under the programme Departments proper;  the second, questions relating to mass communication  and public relations and matters comected with the  establishment of standards. Membership of one  working party should not be a bar to membership of  the other; delegations which so desired, and which  had the means to do so, could be represented on both.  Agreed,
(13) Mr; BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) asked  the Chairman to remind delegations attending the  Conference that, under the Rules of Procedure, they  could send cbeervers to any working parties on which  they were not represented.
(14) The proposal, seconded by Mr. McCULLOUGH  (United States of America) and Mr. UNAKOV (Union    Xx-3  of Soviet Socialist Republics), was unanimously adopted.  {18} Mr, McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  pointed out that, as-it was impossible for the -  .Committes to examine all the prajects covered in the  Director-General's report, it would be necessary to  consider how the necessary selection of activities to  be examined would be made. . He suggested that all --  members be asked to consider that problem and to  list those projects which they felt should receive the  special attention of the Committee. Tha final  selection of projects to be examined by the Committee  could then be made from the proposals submitted.
(16) Mr, PEIRIS (Ceylon) agreed with that procedure,  provided that all members retained the right to spesk  on any project which they considered to be important,  whether included in the selected list or not.
(17 Mr, BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur) agreed  that it would be well to consider the problem, but  proposed that the two working parties should begin, .  that afternoon, to discuss two questions which all  were bound fo agree merited study - the establishment  of standards and the main features of Member States’  collaboration. It would then be possible to suggest a  provisional list of items to be referred to each of the  working parties by the following marning.
(18) That suggestion was seconded by Mr. PEIRIS  {Ceylon) and adopted.  The meeting rose at noon.  THIRD MEETING
31 October 1956, at 3.45 p.m.  Chairman; Mr. ZIEGLER (Austria)
(1) The CHAIRMAN recalled that the Committee had  agreed in the morning to set up two working parties  to study the implementation of Uneaco's programme,  The first working party would deal with pages 5 to 22  of document 9C/4, Annex III; the second would start  with Mass Communication on page 22.
(3) Mr. McCULLOUGH (United States of America)  offered to serve on Working Party No. 2.
(3) Mr, PEIRIS (Ceylon) expressed a preference for  Working Party No. 1, as did Mr. KAN TIOURN  (Cambodia), Mr. TOTH (Hungary), Mr. MASHAYEKH  FARIDANI (Ixau) and Mr. KIM (Korea).  {4) Mr. UNAKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics)  also wished to serve on Working Party No. 1.  However, since only one member was interested in
717  Working Party No. 2, he suggested that it would be  preferable to examine certain questions in plenary  meeting.
(5) The CHAIRMAN thought the suggestion of the |  Soviet delegate was very interesting, but he feared  that it would involve organizational difficulties.
(6) Mr. MAHEU (Representative of the Director-  General) thought that it would be better not-to set up  working parties but to begin the discussion of the  questions ‘the Committee had to consider.
(1 Mr. BRUNSVICK (France), ‘who would algo have  preferred to serve on Working Party No. 1, was  prepared to accept Mr. Maheu's suggestion,
(8) The CHAIRMAN suggested cancelling the