"CHAPTER VI  JOINT MEETING OF THE  PROGRAMME AND ADMINISTRATIVE  COMMISSIONS
4 December 1956, at 10 a. m.  Chairman: Mr. DAVIES (Australia)
(1) The CHAIRMAN declared the meeting open and  outlined its agenda. The first item being the election  of a Rapporteur, he proposed the appointment of  Mr. Kjems of the Danish delegation. That proposal  was adopted unanimously.  REPORT OF JOINT WORKING PARTY No. 2 (document 9C/ 22)  - . +
(2) In the absence of the Chairman and Rapporteur of  the Working Party, Mr. ADISÉSHIAH (Assistant  Director-General) presented the report which, as  indicated, dealt with the three questions referred to  the Working Party. Mr, Adiseshiah outlined the dis-  cussions that had taken place with regard to item 1 -  Unesco Coupon Scheme (paragraphs 4 to 8) and drew  attention to the recommendation of the Working Party  contained in paragraph 8.
(3) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL indicated his accept-  ance of that recommendation.
(4) The recommendstion was adopted unanimously,  without further discussion.
(6) Mr, ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director-General)  then presented the section of the report relating to  {tem II - the Unesco "Courier" (paragraphs 9 to 19),  drawing attention to the four possible solutions to the  problem of financing the increased circulation of the  "Courier" considered by the Working Party: A: an  increase in the subscription rates; B: income from  commercial advertising in the "Courier"; C: supple-  mentary appropriations; D: use of the Publications  Fund. The Working Partyhad decided, by a vote of
7 to 6, not to recommend an increase in the subscrip-  tion rates, and had been unanimous in feeling that it  was not in a position to reach an immediate decision  in the matter of commercial advertising, It had  suggested that that question be studied by the Director-  General, in consultation with the Executive Board, so  that a detailed report thereon might be made to the  tenth. session (paragraphs 12 to 15). The Working  Party had then left it for the General Conference to  decide whether the additional sum required to cover  “ possible deficit on the "Courier" should  be added to the appropriation for Sales and  Distribution in the Documents and Publications
658  Service, or, “be drawn. from the Publications Fund,  Speaking on behalf of the Director-General,  Mr. Adiseshiah said that he would not favour accept-  ance of the Working Party'srecommendation that  there be no increase in the subscription rates of the  "Courier", .The Secretariat had previously’ proposed  a 25 per cent increase in the sale price of the  "Courier'!, and did rot beliève that it would have any  appreciable. effect on the increase in circulation. In  any case, the Director-General wanted a certain  degree of flexibility that would enable him tô reach a  decision in that matter after a careful examination of  all expenditure on the "Courier", including the cost of  sales and distribution. He felt ‘that he could not  recommend a continuation of the existing subsidy on  the increastig scale that would result from an  enlarged circulation, Neither could he endorse the  proposal that the relevant appropriation line in the  Documents and Publications Service be increased by  the amount necessary to cover, the anticipated deficit,  but rather would ask the General Conference to  authorise him, excepticaally, to draw that sum from  the Publications Fund. In return, he would give the  Conference an assurance that he would keep any  increase in subscription rates to the absolute mini-  mum, and that he would in no event make any increase  above 25 per cent,
(6) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL added that he had no  objection to the recommendation of the Working Party  with respect to the question of commercial advertising  in the "Courier".
(7) The CHAIRMAN opened discussion on the various  proposals made with respect to the "Courier".
(8) Mr. FIKRY (Egypt) felt that, in view of the  interest that had been aroused by the Unesco "Courier",  there would be no danger in increasing the subscription  rates for thet publication.  With regard to the question of advertising, he thought  it would perhaps be advisable to allow the Director-  General to carry out an experiment immediately, and  to include the results in the special report to the  General Conference at its next session.
(9) Mr. ANAS (Afghanistan) said his delegation would   JOINT MEETING OF PROGRAMME AND ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISBIONS  bein favour of financing ‘thé wider distribution of the  "Courier" by an increase in its sale price; as it did  not feel that that Publication was in any way expensive  at thé present time. ‘He thought, furthermore, that  there could be no objection to Unesco's including in  the "Courier" commercial advertisements that  related to aspects of its Programme activities.
(16) Mr, | KELLERMANN (United States’ of America) -  thought that it might bé of interest to the’ Commission  to hear some of the points thét Had beén discussed in  detail by the Working Paity; His delègation had felt  that it would be wrong to tie the hands’ of the Diréctor-  General with regard to the ‘subscription’ rate, which -  represented an important soirée of income, It had,  however, éxpressed greater corñceri with respect to  the proposal for introducing commercial advertising  into the "Courier", since it felt that the "Courier"  was not a commergial vehicle, but was a dignified,  specialized periodical with a serious’ reading public.  The introduction of commercial advertising might  offend some subscribers; who would not expeét to find  such publicity in a magazine of that type, A further  and more important argument was that advertising  could only provide an unstable and irregular source  of income. If advertisiiig were to bé permitted,  therefore, it should be considéeréd only as a source of  income over and above the minimum required to’  maintain the circulation of the "Courier"; the  point  should never be reiched at which the "Courier" was  dependent for its existence on mich an unstable and  irregular source of income, since its future could  then be jeopardized at any time if an advertiser  decided to withdraw his support.
(11) Mr, AYE (Union of Firma) agrioed | with the dele-  gate of the United States of America that the Director-  General should be allowed a'cortaiñ diotit of flexibl-  lity to obtain the revenue necessary to maintain the  "Courier" and inéresse its circulation au he saw fit  after further investigation.’ Many delegations had felt  that commercial advertising was not in éonformity  with the dignity of thé Organisat aid of the  "Courier", but his own feeling was that there was  nothing undesirable in the inclusion of advertisements  relating to’ ‘activities ‘in the fieldé of education, science  and ‘culture. Hé had every confidence, in that respect,  in the discrimination of the Secretariat, which he felt  sure would not accept any materisl that might lower  the dignity of the "Courier":
(12) Mr. ‘RIVET (France) pointed out that the attitude  of the various delegations depended, to some extent,  où the interest which the "Courier" had aroused in  their respective countries, -  In France, the number of subscriptions to the  "Courier" had rapidly risén from 1,000 to 25,000 and,  in certain departments, all the schools had sutomati-  cally become subscribers.  While regretting that the increase tn the number of  subscribers resulted in an increase in the deficit,  Mr. Rivet felt that an increase in the subscription  rates should be contemplated only asd last résort.  On the other hand, he would be quite willing to mupport  the proposal that the Secretariat be asked to study the  possibility of commercial advertising in the "Courier".
(13) The CHAIRMAN proposed that ths Commission .  vote on the proposal of the delegate of Egypt; which .  had been seconded, and which authorized the Director-  General to increase the subscription rate of the  "Courier" up to à maximum of 25 per cent and further  authorised him’'to carry out an experimental investi-  gation of the possibilities of commercial advertising.
(14) Replying to's question from the delogate of the  United States of America, the DIRECTOR-GENERAL  explained that, if that proposal were adopted, It Would  not’ then be nècessary to consider the othèr possible  solutions ‘suggested by the Working Party, i.6: that  the additional $36,000 required to offset thé estimated  deficit on the "Courier" be either included in the  budget of thé Documents and Publications Service, or  withdrawn from the Publications Fund. He was willing  to accept the proposal regarding commercial advert-  ising, and would he prepared to proceed cautiously in  the matter and report thereon to the Executive Board.
(15) Mr, FIKRY (Egypt) ‘explained that his desire was  to free Unesco's budget of the burden ‘of the $36,000  mentioned in paragraph 16. He felt that the best  means of achieving that end would be to authorize the  "Director-General to expéririent with advertising and’  to leave him free to decide, in the light of the results,  what increase should be made in the subscription rates.
(16) The CHAIRMAN then put the proposal of the  delegate of Egypt tb the Vote in two parts: ‘the proposal  to authorize the Director-General to increase the  subscription rate of the "Courier" up to a maximum  of 28 per cent was adopted by 28 ‘votés to 10; with 8  abstentions; ‘thé proposal to authorize thé Director-  General to proceed, on an rimental basis, with  the introduction of commerc ‘advertising as a means  of increasing the revemie from the "Courier" was  adopted by 27 votes to 7, with 13 abstentions.
(17) Mr: ADBESHIAR (Asstitait Dis'éotér-Géneral)  noted that that decision rendered unnecessary further  consideration’ of the Working Party's recommendations  with respect to the. financing of the "Courier". “It  would be necessary, however, for’ the Joint Commission  to adopt the amendments to the ‘resolution ‘governing  the Publications Fund contained in paragraphs 29 and
30 of Part II, Chapter 8, of document 9C/5 Corrigen-'  duia 1, and to add to the résolution ééncérning the’  “Courier” a proviso covering the suthorized increase  in subscription rates.
(18) Those amendments were adopted unanimously,  and it was égreed that the réport of the Joint  Commission would contain a reference to the  authorized increase in subscription rates.
(19), Mr. ADISESHIAH (Assistant Difector -Gègeral)  then presented the Working Party" à recommiérdations  with respect to the third item on its agenda = New  presentation of the Budget Estiniates of the Documeins  and Publications Service (paragraph 20 of document
8C/22). The Diréctor-General had felt that distri-  bution of documents and publications costs throughout  the various Departments, Bureaux and Services of the  Organization would provide an incentive to those unité   Vi-1  to keep within their estimates for those items The  Working Party had not felt in a position to examine the  scheme, which was somewhat complicated, in any  detail, and had therefore recommended that the  Director-General be authorized to study the matter  further, in consultation with the Executive Board, and  to report thereon to the tenth session. The Director-  General intended to experiment with the scheme and  report on its practicability to the Executive Board  and to the tenth session.
(20) There being no objection, the recommendation of  theWorking Party in that respect was adopted  unanimously.  REPORT OF JOINT WORKING PARTY No. 1 (document 9C/ 23)
(21) The CHAIRMAN called on the Rapporteur of  Joint Working Party No. 1 to present its report.
(22) Mr, ARTHUR (United Kingdom) (Chairman and  Rapporteur of the Working Party) presented and read  extracts from the report of Joint Working Party No.
1, which had been established to consider the proce-  dures to be followed in the preparation and examina-  tion of the I roposed Programme and Budget for
1959-1860 and to maka recommendations thereon,  As indicated in paragraph 3 of the report, the Working  Party had considered two main problema, and ita  recommendations thereon, in summary form, were  contained in paragraph 21. If the amendments to the  Rules of Procedure proposed in paragraphs 21 (c) and  (f) were adopted, the Legal Committee had proposed a  form-of drafting for the amended Rule 78 that would  take account of both amendments in the same  paragraph.  Paragraph 2 of that Rule would read i ès set forth in  paragraph 21 (c), with the insertion of the words  "and proposals for increases or decreases in the  total budget ceiling proposed by the Director-General"  after "the budget estimates" in the third line.
(23) The CHAIRMAN thanked the Working Party for  its constructive work on a difficult problem that  affected all delegations, and opened discussion on its  report and recommendations.
(24) Speaking a8 Chairman, of the Programme Com-  mission, Mrs, MYRDAL (Sweden) warmly welcomed  the recommendations’ of the ‘Working Party, which she  felt would do much to lighten the work of future  sessions of the General Conference. She drew  particular attention to ‘the suggestions contained in  paragraphs 7, 8 and 12, as those proposals, ‘it adopted,  would make the work of future Programme Com-  missions more efficient, expeditious and worth while,  The Programme Commission had been endeavouring  to carry out simultaneously the two functions of  legislating on the ‘proposed programme and budget  and of acting as = discussion forum, I those functions  were separated, it might be possible to set up  specialized discussion groups and thus gain greater  benefit from the attendance at’ the General Conference  of eminent specialista from 4’ ..érent lands.
(25) Mr. FIKRY (Egypt) found the report contained in  document 9C/23 very satisfactory. Referring to
660  JOINT MEETING OF PROGRAMME AND ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSIONS  paragraph 21 (c), he proposed, however, that the word  “substantially" be deleted from the text to be substi-  tuted for the existing Rule 78 (2) of the Rules of  Procedure, as he felt it was meaningless in the context,
(26) Mr GOLUNSKY (Unipn of Soviet Socialist  Republics) drew the Secretariat's attention to certain  shortcomings in the Russian document, particularly  to the fact that the same text - that of the future Rule
78 (2) - was presented in two different forms on  pages 3 and 6 of that document,  Unlike the Egyptian delegate, he did not think that  the word "substantially" should be deleted from  paragraph 21 (c). If that amendrient were accepted,  delegations would no longer be, able, at the General  Conference, to present any amendment involving the  slightest increase in the budget estimates.
(27) The CHAIRMAN apologized, on behalf of the  Director-General, for any inconsistencies that  existed in the Rusoian text, and gave an assurance  that the text would be adjusted to the French and  English versions.
(28) Mr. JORDANA DE POZAS (Spain) said that one  of the hest methods in cases such as the one under  discussion was to consider the experience already  acquired in the matter and to study the implications  of the various delegations! views, 7  The Spanish delegation agreed with. the wording of  the Working Party's report. With regard to the  current session of the General Conference, he had  noted two difficulties, Firstly, a large number of  proposals were constantly being presented and in  such a way as to create ‘confusion; he feit everyone  regarded that as an evil, but’ everyone was guilty in  the matter; and he therefore thought that steps  should be taken to avoid such a flood of documents at  future sessions. Secondly, the Spanish delegation had  noted a certain tendency to alter the ‘estimates  presented in the proposed budget, without any  justification for doing so. .  He also felt that the Programme Cotñinission had  begun its work very late and he could not understand  why; the Spanish delegation, lke other delegations,  had often been obliged to, abstain from expressing its  views. Ho suggested that the General Committee of  the Conference should study the possibility of arranging  for the Programme Commission to begin its work  before the plenary meetings came to an end.  He also reférred to the posuibility of a longer-term  programme. The programme consisted of two parts:  the so-called major projects, and other projects. The  Spanish delegation felt that there was no advantage in  limiting the major projects to two years, for that  system meant that the plans would always be on a  temporary basis and that Unesco could always change  the line of policy it had originally adopted, which was  undesirable, Major projects should be planned for a  period ranging from 5 to 10 years, while her  projects could be iniplemented within the space of  two years.  He reminded the meeting that the Working Party had  felt it necessary to recommend that the Executive  Board reconsider the question of the period covered  by the programme and budget, but the Spanish delega-  tion thought that paragraph 21 (j), which was intended   JOINT MEETING OF PROGRAMME AND ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSIONS  to express that idea, was not suitably drafted,
(20) The CHAIRMAN neted that speakers were in  general agreement with the recommendations of the  Working Party and suggested that those recommenda-  tions be put to the vote one by cne (paragraphe 21 (a)  to (3).
(30) Péragraph 21 (a) was adopted unanimously.
(31) Paragraph 21 (b) was adopted unanimously.
(32) In connexion with paragraph 21 (c), the CHAIRMAN  noted that the proposal of the delegate of Egypt to  delete the word "substantially" had not been seconded.  That proposal could not, therefore, be voted upon as  an amendment, In view of the combined text to cover  the amendments suggested in paragraphs 21 (c) and
21 (f), proposed by the Legal Committee, he suggested  that the amendment contained in 21 (c) be accepted in  principle,
(33) In connexion with paragraph 21 (d), the  DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out that, according to  the provisions of the Constitution, the proposed pro-  gramme and budget estimates were proposed by the  Director-General and net by the Executive Board.  The word "draft" should therefore be replaced by  "proposed", and the reference to the Executive Board  should be deleted,
(34) Mr. MATSUI (Japan) (Chairman of the Legal  Committee) said that although, apart from the subati-  tution of the words "three montha' for "two months'  the proposed text exactly followed that of the existing  Rule 10 A (2), he saw no objection to the proposed  amendment.
(35) Mr. GOLUNSKY (Union of Soviet Socialist .  Republics) pointed out that the amendment suggested  by the Director-General did not represent a mere  drafting change, but affected the substance of Rule 10  A (2). If reference to the Executive Board were  deleted, Member States could receive the proposed  programme and budget before those documents had  been submitted to the Board and not with the comments  of the Board thereon, as at present laid down.
(36) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL felt that the difficulty  had arisen because Rule 10 A of the Rules of Proce-  dure had not heen amended to take account of a recent  amendment of the Constitution, In the past, ‘the  proposed programme and budget had been proposed  by the Executive Board, but the Constitution had been  amended to give the Director-General direct respon-  sibility for those proposals, which he submitted to the  Board for comment, He did not think that deletion of  the reference to the Executive Board would change the  substance of Rule 10 A, as the question of the  submission of the proposed programme and budget to  the Executive Board for comment was covered by  other Rules of Procedure.
(37) Mr. GOLUNSKY (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) suggested the following wording: "Member  States and Associate Members shall receive the  proposed programme and budget, together with the
661  VI-1  comments af the Executive Board, at least three  months before the opening of the session"
(36) Mr. VERONESE (Italy) stated that he was not  authorized to speak on behalf of the Executive Board,  but he personally felt that the legal situation was  quite clear. The Director-General had to present  the proposed programme and budget together with  any comments that might have been made on it by the  Executive Board; in view of the time-table for the  Board's sessions during any given financial period,  however, hé felt it would be difficult for the Board to  prepare its comments in time for them tu be com-  municated to Member States three months before the  opening of the General Conference. He therefore  thought it was a practical rather than a legal problem.
(39) Mr. MATSUI (Japan) (Chairman of the Legal  Committee) felt that the Director-General and the  Executive Board could perhaps be left to work out a  draft for Rule 10 A (2) which would be in line both  with the provisions of the Constitution and with the  various other Rules of Procedure, ;
(40) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained that the  time-table he had submitted to the Working Party  allowed for more than three months between the sub-  mission of the proposed programme and budget to the  Executive Board and the opening of the General |  Conference, However, he recognized the practical  problem raised by the delegate of Italy. He suggested  that Rule 10 A might be drafted as follows: ‘Member  States and Associate Members shall receive the  proposed programme and budget estimates, and if  possible the comments of the Executive Board, at  least three months before the opening of the session".
(41) Mr. VERONESE (Italy) speaking as a representa-  tive of his country, supported the solution proposed by  the Director-General, ;
(42) Speaking as Chairman of the Working Party,  Mr, ARTHUR (United Kingdom) pointed out that the  Working Partyhad bad instructions to refer ail  proposals for amendment of the Rules of Procedure  to the Legal Committee. That procedure was  followed in compliance with the provisions of Rule
107. He therefore felt that the Joint Commission  would be out of order in proposing any further amend-  ment to Rule 10 A without obtaining the advice of the  Legal Committee.
(43) Replying to a proposal by the delegate of  Australia, the CHAIRMAN ruled that, in view of the  provisions of Rule 107, no further amendment to Rule
10 A could be made without reference to the Legal  Committee.
(44) Mr, MATSUI (Japan) (Chairman of the Legal  Committee), speaking as a member of the Japanese  delegation, said he was In favour of the amendment  proposed by the Australian delegation, ‘but, as à  representative of the Legal Committee, he could not  express an opinion on that amendment, for the Legal  Committee had taken no decision on the point concerned.
(45) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) (Chairman and   Vi-1  Rapporteur of the Working Party) pointed out that the  report of the Working Party drew attention to the -  desirability of the amendment of some of the other  Rules of Procedure, and suggested that that question  be referred to the Executive Board (paragraph 21 (g)  He therefore suggested that the Joint Commission  accept the principle that the proposed programme and  budget should be submitted to Member States and  Associate Members at least three mouths befor’: the  opening of the session, and refer Rule 10 A to the  Executive Board, in accordance with the suggestion  made in paragraph ! { {2 of the Working Party's  report.
(46) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL gave an assurance  that, if Rule 10 A (2) were left as drafted, he would  undertake to carry out the sririt of the discussions of  the Joint Commission. On the other hand, it would be  possible for the Legal Committee to meet to consider  any proposed amendment of that Rule before the  opening of thé plenary meeting the following morning.
(47) Mr. GOLUNSKY (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) remarked that, if it was to settle the  question, the Legal Committee would need more time  than was available. Hé therefore felt that the Com-  mission could adopt the solution proposed by  Mr. Arthur. It would recommend that the General  Conference confine’ itself to approving the proposed  time-limit of three months and leave it to the Director-  General and the Executive Board to decide how the  various provisions of the Rules of Procedure might  be harmonized, in the light of the Constitution.
(48) Mr, BEEBY (New Zealand) agreed, especially in  view of the assurance given by the Director-General  that, if Rule 10 A were left unchanged, he would carry  out the wishes of the Commission as expressed during  its discussion. He would be in favour of the  Commission's adopting the solution proposed by the  Chairman of the Working Party.
(49) The CHAIRMAN having raised an objection to the  submission of a proposal not contained in the report  of the Working Party by the Chairman and Rapporteur  of that Working Party ,Mr. BEEBY (New Zealand) said  he would himself move the proposal made by  Mr. Arthur.
(50) That proposal was seconded and, there being no  further discussion, was adopted unanimously.
(51) Paragraph 21 (e) was adopted unanimously.
(52) The principle of the amendment proposed by the  Working Party in paragraph 21'(f) was accepted.
(53) The CHAIRMAN then called for a vote on the  combined am ent to Rule 78 (2), presented by the  Chairman of the Working Party on the proposal of the  Legal Committ2e, which would cover the proposals  contained in both paragraph 21 (c) and paragraph 21  (f) of the Working Party's report.
(54) The revised amendment was adopted unanimously.
(55) In connexion with paragraph 21 (g), Mr. ARTHUR
662  JOINT MEETING OF PROGRAMME AND ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSIONS  (United Kingdom) (Chairman and Rapporteur of the  Working Party)explained that the additional amend-  ment to Rule 10 A which it was proposed to refer to  the Executive Board would be covered by the recom-  mendation as worded in the report.
(56) That paragraph was then adopted unanimously,
(57) Paragraph 21 (h) was adopted unanimously,
(58) Mr. MARTINEZ COBO (Ecuador), referring to  paragraph 21 (i), said that, in document 8C/20, the  Director-General presented a time-table showing the  possible dates of the Executive Board's sessions,  He did not think, however, that the General Conference  was in a position to approve those dates, as it was the  Executive Board itself which had to décide how many  times it should meet. The Board held very few  meetings; and consequently very few documents  accompanied by the Board's comments had been  presented to the General Conference, probably  owing to the shortage of time at the Board's  disposal..  - He therefore suggested that the time-table be  approved so far as the dispatch of documents was  concerned, but that no decision be taken concerning  the Board's sessions.
(59) The CHAIRMAN said that the Director-General  agreed with the point raised by the delegate of  Ecuador, and expressed his own sympathy with that  view.
(60) Paragraph 21 (i) was then adopted unanimously.
(61) Mr, JORDANA DE POZAS (Spain) pointed out  that paragraph 21 (j) was either not clearly or not  suitably drafted. It was impossible to tell whether  the Executive Board was to make a lengthy and  detailed study or whether the programme and budget  were to cover a longer period. Comparing the English  and Spanish texts, he félt that they both said the same  thing, namely, that the Executive Board should make  a full study, without reference to the period covered  by the programme and budget, although it was on the  latter point that the Working Party had made {ts  recommendation,
(62) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdoni) (Chairman and  Rapporteur of the Working Party) agreed that the text  of paragraph 21 (j) was equivocal and proposed that  the words "longer term'' be deleted. A fuller  explanation of the Working Party's decision on that  point was contained in paragraph 20 of the report.
(63) Mr. JORDANA DE POZAS (Spain) expressed  himself satisfied by that proposal and explanation.
(64) Mr. VERONESE (Italy) was also in favour of  deleting the words "longer term" from the first line  of paragraph 21 (J). At thé same time, he pointed  out that the French version of paragraph 21 (jf)  contained a reference to paragraph 20, which should  also be included in the other texts.
(65) Paragraph 21 (j), as amended, was adopted  unanimously.   JOINT MEETING OF PROGRAMME AND ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSIONS  DRAFT RESOLUTION $C/DR/138
(66) Mr. MATSUI (Japan) pointed out that the discua-  sion which had just taken place showed how desirable  it was that the Rules of Procedure should be studied  in greater detail by the Director-General, the . .-  Executive Board and the General Conference, That  was the object of the draft resolution presented by the’  Japanese delegation in document 8C/DR/130. That  draft resolution hard been amended in the light of the  discussions in Joint Working Party No. 1; ‘and the...  amended text was contained in document 9C/DR/138.  The new draft resolution, like the earlier draft,  aimed at thé improvement of the Rules of Procedure,  The Japanese delegation felt that such improvement  could be achieved only by taking sufficient time. It  would, in fact, be necessary to examine carefully not  only the amendments which might have to be made to  any given rule in order to bring it into line with  amendments to any other rule, but also the practical  implications of the various amendments contemplated.  Mr. Matsui pointed out, in that connexion, that the  fact that the Asian countries had lost a seat at the  recent elections of members of the Executive Board  could be regarded as due, to some extent, to the  amendment to Rule 89 of the Rules of Procedure;  the Japanese delegation had not imagined that the  latter *mendment would produce such a result. It  was in order to make it easier to foresee such  practical consequences and, in general, to allow of a  more detailed study of the improvements to be made  to the Rules of Procedure, that the Japanese and  United Kingdom delegations had decided to submit to  the General Conference the draft resolution contained  in document 9C/DR/138.
(67) The CHAIRMAN explained that he could not  submit for discussion a resolution which bad been  presented in one of the working languages only, and  which had not been considered by the General Com-  mittee. However, in order that the proposal of the  delegations of Japan and the United Kingdom might  receive some consideration, he would suggest that it  be presented to the plenary meeting during the dis-  cussion of the report of Joint Working Party No. 1.
(68) It was so agreed.  REPORT OF WORKING PARTY No, 6: GENERAL RESOLUTIONS  (document 9C/PRG/30)
(69) The CHAIRMAN then called on the Assistant  Director-General to explain what action the Joint  Commission was required to take in connexion with  the report of Working Party No. 6.
(70) Mr. ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director-General)  explained that the Programme Commission had  decided: (a) to reiñstate the Regional Office for the  Western Hemisphère in Havana; " and (b) to establish  an Arabic unit within the Bureau for Relations with °  Member States. The first decision required the Joint  Commission to approve the deletion from the budget  of the provisions in the Departments of Education end  Cultural Activities, in Major Project 1A, and in the  Bureau of Relations with Member States, listed in  paragraph 45 of Part II, Chapter 7 (General Resolu-
663  Vi-1  tions), of document 9C/5 Corrigendum 1, The second  decision required the Joint Commission to approve the  addition to paragraph 82 of Part III of document 9C/b  Corrigendum 1, under.the heading "Middle East and  Africa", of provision for two poste at P-4 and two clerk-  stenographer posts at D included in document 8C/5  Addendum 3, The additional costs of that proposal  amounted to $30,612 in 1957 and $31 415 in 1958, being  inclusive of common staff costs and printing costs.
(71) There being no objection, the budgetary  implications of the deciaions taken by the Programme  Commission were unanimously approved.  REPORT OF THE AD HOC COMMITTEE ON BUDGET ADJUSTMENTS  (document 9C/ 36)
(72) The CHAIRMAN called on the Rapporteur of the  Ad Hoo Committee on Budget Adjustments to present  the report of that Committee.
(73) Mr. ZULAWSKI (Poland) (Rapporteur) stated  that the Ad Hoc Committee on Budget Adjustments had  instructed him to submit to the current meeting a brief  statement concerning the draft resolution contained in  document 9C/26,  The reason for the resolution was the need to bring  down the total amount of expenditure to the budget  ceiling approved by the Conference; as things stood,  expenditure would exceed that ceiling by $664,832.  In accordance with the Ad Hoc Committee's .  proposals, the first step would be to apply a uniform  percentage reduction to each appropriation line of  Part II (Programme Operations and Services); that  reduction would be 3, 75 per cent; but, as auch a  considerable reduction might jeopardize the success  of certain projects, whereas other projects could  stand én even greater reduction, the Director-General  and the Executivé Board would be {natructed to make  certain adjustments later on. They would have to’  study the possibility of making reductions in Parts I,  MI and IV of the Appropriation Table and to draw up a  plan which would make it possible to apply to the  various projects in the programme a percentage  reduction varying according to the projects concerned,  instead of a uniform percentage reduction, Paragraph
(3) of the draft resolution presented by the Ad Hoc  Committee gave all the necessary details.
(74) The CHAIRMAN thanked the Rapporteur for his  introductory statement and drew attention to the fact  that the word "poste" in paragraph (2) of the French  text should be replaced by "Chapitre".
(75) Speaking as Chairman of the Programme  Commission, Mrs. MYRDAL (Sweden) said that she  had verticipated in the discussions of the Ad Hoc  Committee and was fully convinced that the resolution  submitted by that Committee represented an adequate  safeguard that the decisions taken in the Programme  Commission would not be set aside; but would be  integrated in the programme of the Orgaaisation. It  was necessary to allow for a certain fi~wihility, but  she could assure the meeting that the p: oposal of the  Ad Hoc Committee reprosented the best method of  dealing with & problem made doubly difficult by  shortage of time.   V1
(76) Mr. VERONESE (Italy) (Representative of the  Executive Board) was in favour of the Ad Hôc  Coramitteé's proposals, which he considered to be  reasonable, ‘ Referring té paragraph 3 (a), he pointed  out however, that, if the Executive Board had to be  consulted with regard to the reductions to be made in  Parts I, II! arid iv, difficulties might be created or  work might be delayed; as the Executive Board would,  in any casé, have to examire the plans drawn up by  the Director-General, Mr, Veronese felt it unnecessary  to bring thé Board into the preparation of those plans.  Mr. Veronese algo drew the attention of all dele-  gations to the fact that the General Conference was  perfectly entitled to entrust the Executive Board with  a task such as that mentioned in paragraph 4.  Lastly, he thought that a slight drafting amendment  might perhaps be made to the latter paragraph, He  suggested the following wording: “Authorizes the  Executive Board to examine and, if it thinks fit, to  approve this plan.
(77) The CHAIRMAN expressed the Director-  General's agreement with the proposal of the Italian  delegate to delete the words "in consultation with the  Executive Board" from paragraph (3) (a).
(78) That proposal was adopted unanimously.
(18) The CHAIRMAN also believed that, in the mind  of the Working Party,paragraph (4) constituted a  delegation of power by the General Conference to the  Executive Board, However, that point could be  included in the report of the Joint Commission.
(80) There being no further objection, the resolution  presented by the Ad Hoc Committee in document
9C/26, was adopted, as amended.  ADOPTION OF DRAFT APPROPRIATION RESOLUTION FOR
(81) The CHAIRMAN then called on the Director-  General to introduce the draft Appropriation Resolution  contained in document 9C/29, pointing out that the  figure of the Total Appropriation for 1958 in the last  column of the English text should read $12,007,360.
(82) The DIREGTOR- -GENERAL ‘explained that the  draft Appropriation Resolution was submitted in the  standard form adopted by previous sessions of the  Conference, with one small change in terminology:  Part V had been called "Undistributed Appropriation"  instead of ""Reserve!!, to meet the objection of the  delegation of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics  that the previous title was incorrect. The various  authorizations had been copled from past Appropriation  Resolutions and he did not believe that they would give  rise to any difficulty, but he would call attention to  tie fact that the appropriations in Part II had been  reduced in accordance with the resolution of the Ad  Hoc Comniittee on Budget Adjustments, to bring the  budget into line with those reduced appropriations.  The annex attached on pages 4 and 5 of the document  was submitted for information only and did not require  adoption by the Joint Commission.
(83) Mr. LEE (United States of America) explained  that his delegation would abstain in the vote on the
664     JOINT MEETING OF PROGRAMME AND ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSIONS  Appropriation Resolution, Two years previously the  General Conference had adopted a sound principle of  programme concentration through the device of major  projects. At that time his delegation had advocated  the thesis that budget increases should be conditional  upon sound programme planning, with concentration»  in areas of high priority, Since the Director-  General's proposals as contained in documents
9C/5 and Addenda and Corrigenda met the require-  ments of that thesis to à reasonable extent, the  United States delegation had supported his suggested  budget increases, However, action taken at the ninth  session, if finally approved, would add numerous  projects to the Director-General's proposed pro-  gramme, and his delegation was gravely concerned  about such last minute additions which were made  after only hasty deliberation, It feared that such  practice was doing great harm to the principle of  sound budget planning based on the thesis of high  concentration of programme activities on major  priorities, and noted with concern that the imposition  of those last minute proposals was being made at the  expense of many other worth-while projects that had  been carefully prepared by the Director-General and  the Secretariat after consultation with the Member  States. His delegation further deplored the fact that  many of the decisions that had been taken at the ninth  session were inconsistent with the principles approved  at the eighth session. However, singe his ‘delegation  hoped that the Director-General and the Executive  Board would show wisdom in completing the work left  unfinighed by the General Conference, it would not  vote against adoption of the Appropriation Resolution,  "but would abstain,
(84) The CHAIRMAN having invited delegates to  approve document 9C/29, Mr. XEMENOV (Union of  Soviet Socialist Republics) said he did not feel he  could vote on that document, as it contained all kinds  of figures which delegations had not had time to  examine in detail, - If à Vote were taken, he would  therefore have to abstain, He pointed out, however,  that it was not right that working documents of the  General Conference were not always communicated  to delegations in time for the latter to examine them  in detail before the opening of the meetings at which  they were to be discussed.
(85) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that document
9C/29 had been under discussion for some time and  that the delegate of the Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics should have raised his point of order at the  time that document was introduced, He would ask  the Commission to vote on the draft Appropriation  Resolution set out on pages 2 and 3 of document
9C/29, and would take the statement of the Soviet  delegate as an explanation of his vote.
(86) Upon a vote being taken, the draft Appropriation  Résolution was adopted by 25 votes to 0, with 21  abstentions.
(87) The CHAIRMAN announced that no further busi-  ness remained before the Joint Commission, and  thanked the delegates for their co-operation.  The meeting rose atl p.m.