PROGRAMME COMMISSION 1v-8  Plan, in accord with the priorities laid down by the  recipient countries; the Commission might be inter-  ested to know that Canada's contribution to that Plan -  similar in purpose to the Technical Assistance pro-  gramme - had amounted so far to over $135, 000, 000,  The Canadian Parliament, of which Mr, Fairey was  a member, had just voted an $8,000,000 increase to  its annual appropriation for the Colombo Plan, bring-  ing it up to $34, 400, 000.
(12) Mr. ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director-General)  asked to be allowed to make a factual correction to’  paragraph 8 of document 9C/5 Annex I. ‘The sentence    beginning with "In 1957-1958 Unesco ,.." should be  deleted, since the Technical Assistance Committee  had laid down in July that there would be no more  special projects after 1958; the document had been pre-  pared in December and distributed in March.
(13) The CHAIRMAN asked whether any more delegates  wished to have their names included in the list of  speakers and, after noting those who wished to be heard,  declared the list closed.  The meeting rose at 1 p.m.  EIGHTH MEETING
16 November 1956, at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman: Mrs. MYRDAL (Sweden)
(1) The CHAIRMAN reminded the Committee of the  deadline, that same evening, for new proposals rela-  ting to major projects or to projects contained in the  Annex to document 9C/5 Corrigendum 1, aimed at  absorbing the extra $1,000,000 voted by the General  Conference. Other proposals would be out of order,  and some already handed in were in fact not receivable.  ITEN 10 OF THE AGENDA : EXPANDED PROGRAMME OF  TECHNICAL ASSSSTANCE (continued) (Repurt of the Direclor-General  for 198$, documents 9C/3 and 9C/PRG/24) *
(3) Mr. EKANAYAKA (Ceylon) expressed apprecia-  tion for the lucid statem nt on Technical Assistance  made by Mr, Adiseshiah.  He informed the Commission that, in the early days  of Technical Assistance, a fundamental education -  project had been started in Ceylon in the village area  of Hingarakgoden, Unfortunately no évaluation of the  resulls of that experiment had been made, but the  general impression was that it had failed to live up  to expectations, Since 1954, it had been the respon-  sibility of the Govemment, and its future was being  watched with interest. If Unesco had evolved any  technique for evaluating work in the field of funda-  mental education, it would be useful to evaluate the  results achieved by that centre.  In the past, the educational system of Ceylon had  been purely académic in character, but now a great  need was felt for scientifically- -minded men and  women, fitted to be leaders in commerce, trade,  industry and agriculture. The educational system was  being changed to suit those needs, but help was re-  quired and the problem was urgent. He asked whether  Unesco could help his Government in that respect if  requested to do so.  It was obvious that the development of Technical
339  Assistance depended on the dvailability of resources.  He saw no reason to suppose that the operation of the  scheme would be more difficult if funds were increased,  and thought it would be regréttable if funds were only  sufficient for continuing activities. It had given him  great pleasure, therefore, to hear the Canadian dele-  gate's statement that his country was to increase its  contribution to the United Nations programme.  His Government appreciated the sense of responsi-  bility shown by donor countries, and felt that the  Aseistant Directo. -General's statement was a challenge  to them to sustain and increase the good work they were  doing to raise the standard of living in underdeveloped  countries.
(3) Mr. SOEBROTO (Indonesia) remarked that it had  been useful to learn trom thé Assistant Director-  General that the Departinent of Technical Assistance  was aware of the great needs of underdeveloped ‘coun  tries, His country required advice from experts, it  required fellowship grants but, above all, it required  equipment. | It was clear ‘that’ equipment ‘ was of no use  without qualified and skilled personnel but, from his  country's experiénce, advice was of little use in the  absence of ecuipment. Frequently the amount of assis-  tance an exp rt could give to a country was limited by  the lack of equipment, and thé knowledge he had im-  parted could not be put into practice because the coun-  try did not have that equipment. The need for équip-  ment was perhaps less felt in the field of social science  teaching, but it was necessary in the teaching of the  natural sciences from the elementary to the university  level,  His Government welcomed the fact that, under the  Expanded Programme of Technical Assistance, coun-  tries themselves could make requests for Technical  Assistance in the form most needed, and hoped that  its request for equipment would be met.   Iv-8  In his country there was à‘constant demand for  university educatiori, and universities were being  founded to satisfy the demand, although the Govern-  ment knew that it would haÿe difficulty in recruiting  teaching staff and in procuring equipment, The  Unesco experts were expectyd to give assistance in  lecturing and teaching and hid never failed to fulfil  that expectation. There was, however, one problem  connected with experts: they frequently failed in their  tasks through lack of experielice in their new field of  work and through an inability to adapt themselves to  the conditions of the country in which they found them-  selves. It was a source of disappointment to the |  country and the expert alike, if the expert could not  adapt himself to the prevailing living conditions. His  country did its best to provide visiting experts with  reasonable accommodation and transport but, being  an underdeveloped country, could obviously not live  up to the standards of a developed country in that  respect. He had been informed that Unesco was trying  to have more permanent field experts; his Government  was in favour of such an arrangement.  There was no better means of making Unesco popu-  lar and of making its ideals known to the masses than  Technical Assistance, Both donor and receiver coun-  tries were interested parties in the programme, donor  countries exporting a surplus of experts and receiver  countries importing experts to satisfy an urgent need.  His Government welcomed the Director-General's  proposal to co-ordinate the work of the administrative  organs dealing with Technical Assistance. Although  it made no difference to a receiver country whether  help was received from the left or the right hand, it  was important for the left hand to know what the right  hand was giving. He thought that the proposal to  establish a Bureau of Relations with Member States,  if adopted, would ensure that the programmes of Aid  to Member States and Technical Assistance were  co-ordinated.  In conclusion, he appealed to donor countries to be  generous, to support all proposals which could make  Technical Assistance successful and not to diminish  the budget of the Technical Assistance program.ne.
(4) Mr. HAMILTON (British Caribbean Group) con-  gratulated the Secretariat on having been largely  responsible for drawing attention to the need for closer  collaboration among the Specialized Agencies, and  suggested that it was equally desirable to secure  closer collaboration between Member States in the  field of Technical Assistance. For example, if com-  mon needs were ‘ascertained in advance, the services  of one expert might be used to satisfy requirements  in a whole region,  Referring to the proposed major project for the  training of teachers in Latin America and the use to  which Technical Assistance was to be put in carrying  out that project, he asked what territories were to be  included, and whether surveys wére to be made of the  state of primary education in the region before experts  were sent to Latin America. He further asked whether  territories in the region, not included in the project,  would be allowed to send observers, and whether in-  formation would be widely disseminated to them.  Finally, in that corihexion, he asked whether depen-  dent territories, not receiving Technical Assistance  under the project in 1957-1958, could expect to receive
340     PROGRAMME COMMISSION  assistance during the ten-year life of the project.  It was obvious that the choice of experts was very  important, and he wondered whether the Secretariat .  was satisfied that the recruiting situation was improv:  ing in relation to the increase proposed in the granting  of Technical Assistance through such experts, He  suggested that a liberal award of fellowships would be  a useful substitute for experts for long-term opera-  tional projects, Many countries seemed to be of the  opinion that greater benefits were gained from training  indigenous personnel and assigning them to projects,  Not only was it essential for experts to'acclimatize  themselves, but their operational standards of spending  were frequently too high for the caintries to contimie  on a permanent basis, Indigenous experts were more  likely to appreciate the project against its natural  background,  While appreciating the difficulties facing the Secre-  tariat in making fellowship awards, he pointed out that  there was a tremendous time -lag between the approval  of a grant and the completion of the studies by the fellow,  That time-lag was often so great that conditions had  changed and the need for the fellowship no longer  existed.  The effect of Technical Assistance depended on com-  plementary programmes undertaken by the Member  States themselves and frequently on considerable  budgetary increases. In some countries, teachers’  salaries accounted for more than 90 per cent of the  total education budget and, if teacher training was to  be extended, the governments of such countries would  have to expect tremendous increases in funds for the  more highly qualified teachers. Care would have to  be taken that funds for school building and equipment  were not restricted, or the project would not be truly  effective. Technical Assistance in the region of Latin  America wes needed for the training of science teachers  as well as for the training of primary school teachers.  High priority should be given to that need if technology  and professional training were to keep pace with the  improvement in primary education.  In conclusion, he said that he had adopted the rôle  of critic in the discussion from a desire to ensure that  Unesco's generous Technical Assistance did not merely  scratch the surface of the problems of Member States,  but produced true and enduring benefits, which would  advertise Unesco more than mere words.
(5) Mr. SPAULDING (United States of America) indi-  cated his Government's approval of the draft resolu-  tions proposed in connexion with the Expanded Pro-  gramme of Technical Assistance.  He commended the Secretariat for its proposal to  extend the use of junior specialists on an experimental  basis, for having achieved the lowest figure of all thé  Specialized Agenciéa for administrative costs in rela-  tion to total programme costs, for its proposal to  extend Unesco's activities in Africa, for the excellent  co-ordiriation being developed in éertain country pro-  grammes, for the proposals being made to co-ordinate  the Technical Assistance programme, the regular  programme and the major projects, and for having  obtained the inclusion of the social sciences as a cate-  gory of activities for which Technicul Assistance could  be provided,  Technical Assistance was not intended as permanent  support, but as a stimulant, to give initial training and   PROGRAMME  to facilitate proper organization. That being so, it  was important to know what steps were being taken to  achieve the earliest possible transfer to national  suspices of Technical Assistance projects, He asked  for infor mation about the criteria and practical  measures being adopted by the Secretariat to ensure  that that transfer was carried out in an orderly man-  per, so that funds could be released for new projects,  His Government believed that everything possible  should be done to safeguard the multilateral character  of the Technical Assistance programme, and welcomed  the resolution adopted by the Economic end Social  Council to the effect that, after 1958, all country tar-  gots would be based on total funds available,  He recalled that the United States Government had  pledged $15,500,000 to the Technical Assistance pro-  gramme for the year 1956 on condition that an equal  amount was provided by other contributors, and drew  attention to the fact that that sum had not actually  been contributed because the total raised by all other  Member States had not reached that figure.  He concluded by expressing his belief that a reason-  able implementation of the proposals for Unesco par-  ticipation in the Expanded Programme of Technical  Assistance would add substantially to the educational  achievements of Unesco and its Member States.
(6) Miss PEDERSEN (Denmark) recalled that her  delegation had already asked for some clarification  of the principles on which experts were selected but,  in view of the interesting remarks made by the dele-  gate of Belgium, she wished to draw the attention of  the Commission to some comments on the programme  made by the International Council of Women.  The International Council of Women felt that too few  women were used as experts in the Expanded Pro-  gramme of Technical Assistance and suggested that  Unesco might use pressure to ensure their greater  use. She did not know how justifiable that criticism  was, but had noticed that reports seemed to show that  expert work was considered as being work for men.  She asked how many women had so far been appointed  by Unesco as experts, whether there was provision  for the appointment of women, and whether Unesco  had done anything to persuade governments to accept  women experts. Further, she asked whether the  Secretariat would be assisted if the Commission for-  mally emphasized the importance of including women  as experts. If it would, she would propose a resolu-  tion along those lines,  She concluded by saying that her Government had  given and would continue to give its fullest support to  the Technical Assistance programmes of Unesco and  the United Nations.
(71) Mr, DIAZ-GONZALEZ (Venezuela) said that his  Government attached the greatest importance to  Unesco's work in connexion with sélentific dnd tech-  nical training, but felt that the experts should be  chosen with extreme care. His country's experience  in that matter had not been very encouraging. He  cited the example of an expert who, in 1955, had been  able to stay only sixteen days in Venézuela because of  his ignorance of the Spanish language and his reluctance  to adapt himself to the requirements of the region, On the  other hand, the Spanish-speaking experts in Venezuela  at the moment were doing praiseworthy and effective work.
341  COMMISSION IV-8  He said that the Government of his country could not  agree with the emphasis placed on the supply of equip-  ment, for in the process of technical development the  first requirement was the training of staff, For that  reason, he considered that one of the main duties of  experts coming to Venezuela on Technical Assistance  missions was the training of staff ané collaboration  with the authorities in the choice of candidates for  fellowships accorded to that country.
(8) Mr, BETANCUR MEJIA (Colombia) felt that the  help given by experts was extremely valuable, although  he recognized that the funds allocated for the purpose  were insufficient, The sending of fellowship holders  abroad gave them a better understanding of world  conditions and helped them to appreciate other values  and cultures,  He thought that experts should be sent out as teams,  s0 that their work might cover all aspects of education,  including administration and the financing of educa-  tional programmes. His country had set up an institu-  tion dealing with all aspects of education, which would  defray the costs arising out of the work of the teams  of experts. He did not agree with the idea of fixing  a minimum percentege, as such a measure would de-  feat its own purpose because it would mean interfering  in the domestic affairs of other countries,  Experts should be adequately trained, but they should  also be young and not too academic in their approach;  there should be complete co-ordination among Unesco's  various Technical Assistance programmes.  He added that his country was in the midst of indus-  trial development and had not the necessary tech-  nicians and workers to carry through the task it had  undertaken. He mentioned the Ibero-American Bureau  of Education and the negotiations started with Spain  in preparation for a programme of co-operation with the  countries of Latin America.  Lastly, he thanked Uriesco for its assistance to  Colombia, which was helping his country to carry out  a series of important undertakings.
(9) Mr. TOROCHESHNIKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) considered that the Expanded Programme  of Technical Assistance represented one of the best  means available to Unesco for aiding in the develop-  ment of international understanding.  The Soviet Union was particularly in favour of the  measures which Unesco proposed to take, under that  programme, to assist in the development of a network  of higher educational establishments for the training  of technical specialists, It also attached great impor-  tance to the steps being taken to assist the economic  development of countries that had recently emerged  from colonial dependence.  Mr. Torocheshnikov attached particular importance  to the establishment and development of educational  and scientific research institutes like those mentioned  in paragraph 9 ôf Annex I to document 9C/6,  He was also in éomplete agreement with the proposals  under which Unesco was to endeavour, so far as pos-  sible, to link up the major projects with individual  Technical Assistance undertakings.  He considered that, as had already been suggested  several times, an attempt should be made to develop  long-term plans for Technical Assistance, for such  assistance could not produce all the benefits expected   tv-8 PROGRAMME  of it unless it was afforded over a sufficiently long  period, .  He felt that; in certain countries at least, Unesco  should first devote its efforts to the supply of suitable  equipment té appropriate institutions, For that pur-  pose, use should be made, where possible, of the  special" currencies, He drew the Commission's -  attention to the observations of the Executive Board  on the subject (document 9C/5, Addendum 1, para-  graph 137), and pointed out the great advantages of  the system of using special currencies for Technical  Assistance, In that connexion, he mentioned the  Soviet Union's help in providing assistance to the  Western Institute of Téchnology in Bombay, which had  received equipment from the Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics, Assistance in the equipping of a number  of countries might prove particularly helpful.  With regard to that part of its Technical Assistance  programme which was designed to provide golutions  to certain social problems, Unesco should, in Mr,  Torocheshnikov's opinion, display a certain caution  and, in particular, should bear in mind that such  problems took différent forms in different countries.  In that connexion; it should be remembered that, ina  number of countries which had obtained their indepen-  dence after the second world war, far-reaching social  and economic changes had taken place, creating con-  ditions for the dévelopment of a vigorous industry by  the efforts of those States. For them, it was neces-  sary to choose experts who were familiar with the new  social conditions in each such country.  Mr. Torocheshnikov algo thought that it would be  well to broaden the basis for the recruitment of ex-  perts. Many other countries could be added to the list  of those which had so far been called upon to supply  experts for carrying out the Technical Assistance  programme. In East and South East Europe and in  Asia, for example, there were States in which experts  could be found. It would also be desirable to enlist  the services of young experts, who, though less well-  known, still possessed all the experience required.  Mr. Torochéshnikov also thought that the experts  should include moré women, and pointed out, in that  connexion, that, in certain countries such as the  Soviet Union, women constituted a very high propor-  tion of the technical force.  After drawing attention to the desirability of an in-  crease in the sums allocated for fellowships to the
1955-1956 level, Mr. Torocheshnikov expressed  approval of thé substance of the projects concerning  Somalia and Ethiopia (paragraph 56 of Annex I to  document 9C/5). But he was not in favour of the pro-  posal that the Unesco mission to Ethiopia should form  part of a much larger mission mainly composed of  experts furnished by the United States International  Co-operation Administration, and moved that it be  dropped. ’ , , Lo  Like the Technical Assistance Committee (document
9C/PRG/24, paragraph 7), Mr. Torocheshnikov con-  sidered that every effort should be made to reduce  still further the administrative expenses involved in the  Expanded Programme of Technical Assistance. Lastly,  he thought that it would be well for the Unesco, Secretariat  to take steps to present the Conference with information  on Technical Assistance questions in more concise form  than inthe past. He thought that all the information  necessary could be presented in a few short documents.  COMMISSION
(10) Mr, BOGDANOVIC (Yugoslavia) stated that he :  had asked to speak mainly to express his appreciation  to the countriés that had receivéd the groups of felloy-  ship holders who, thanks to Unesco, had been able to  go abroad and undertake studies in preparation for the  reform of the Yugoslav éducational system, Annex:  VI to document 9C/PRG/24 gave detailed information  about the resulté achieved by those fellowship holders  and about the way in which the knowledge they had  acquired abroad had been, or could be, put to use. Mr,  Bogdanovic considered, however, that the friendly  welcome extended to the groups everywhere was a  happy augury for the future development of interna-  tional understanding, and he felt that Unesco was en-  titled to congratulate itself on the results which had  already been achieved in that respect, as his own re-  marks showed.
(11) Mr. LYNKOV (Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Re-  public) had a few remarks to make concerning Annex  I to document 8C/5,  Referring to paragraph 4, in which mention was  made of the need to assist governments and experts  in overcoming resistance to change (in the Russian  text the “inertia of the masses"), Mr. Lynkov protes-  ted against theuse of such a term, which appeared to  set governments in opposition to their peoples. The  people were, in the last analysis, the creators of  material and spiritual values and there was no sense  in talking of the "inertia of thé masses”. The use of  such expressiois was quite inadmissible. ,  While approving the measures, outlined in para-  graphs 13 and 14, for the development of Indian com-  munities in the Andes, Mr, Lynkov expressed the hope  that such measures would be extended to all Indian  communities in America, irrespective of where they  lived.  Mr. Lynkov next asked that a few words be added to  paragraph 33 to indicate that the Executive Board  should be informed of measures taken by the Director:  General regarding the expenditure of funds from the  Special Account: .  Mr. Lynkov agreed with the arguments put forward  at the meeting with regard to the desirability of re-  ducing administrative expenses and increasing the  number of women among the experts recruited,
(12) Mr. JORDANA DE POZAS (Spain) spoke of the  selection of experts and the criteria applied for that  purpose. He considered that the time allowed between  the date of the announcement and the submission of the  application was insufficient, He also felt that’ older  candidates were usually less adaptable and in many  cases did not find personal relations so sasy. He  stressed the need for experts to know the language of  the country to which they went, In his opinion, due  account should be taken of the cultural regions con-  cerned when experts were chosen, ;  With regard to the length of appointments, considera-  tions should be given to the proposals presented by  other delegations and, more particularly, to thé ques-  tion of the actuel period during which the expert could  work effectively. The costs involved were not in  reality so high ¢8 they appeared at first sight, because  the country receiving the experts benefited to an equiva  lent or perhaps even greater extent.  Summing up, Mr. Jordana de Pozas thought that the   PROGRAMME COMMISSION IV-8  Secretariat should announce general requirements an  adequate time in advance; it should inform Goyern-  ments and National Commissions about vacancies  which were about to occur, lower the age requirement  for experts where Latin Américan and Eastern coun-  triés were. concerned, specify that the expert should  come from the same cultural region and speak the  same language as the country to which he went, en-  courage the establishment of national training centres  for experts in education and other subjects, and lastly,  endeavour to take living conditions in the receiving  country into account in order to avoid undue expense,  Finally, he said that his delegation endorsed the last  part of the Colombién delegate's statement, adding, in  connexion with the negotiations undertaken with Spain  for the preparation of a programme of co-operation  with the Latin American countries, that his country  had offered to build a centre in Madrid for the training  of intermediate school teachers. The proposal had  been accepted in principle, and at a later meeting of  the Ibero- American Bureau of Education in Madrid,  various South American countries had approved it.  He thought it advisable to give that information to ex-  plain what was meant by paragraph 64 on page 230 of  the proposed programme and budget.
(13) Mr, KRISHNAN (India) regretted that he had not  been present when Mr, Adiseshiah had given his intro-  duction to the Expanded Programme of Technical  Assistance, although he was certain that that introduc-  tion had been accurate and informative. He had entered  the meeting when the question of the usefulness of  Technical Assistance had been under discussion and  he had one or two points to make in that connexion,  He considered it natural that Technical Assistance  should be provided to countries through experts, fel-  lowship grants and equipraent. The emphasis so far  had been on experts, and it had not always been easy  to obtain the maximum advantage from them because  they had been slow to adapt themselves to new condi-  tions or sometimes because they did not "fit". He had  frequently advocated allowing countries to decide,  themselves, the form in which Technical Assistance  should be given to them, and he welcomed the greater  prominance being given to the supply of equipment,  India could claim neither the highest dollar nor the  highest per capita contribution, but it could claim to  have been associated in the closest possible way with  the Technical Assistance programme since its begin-  ning, Îte experience had always bzen good and it had  been satisfied with the experts sent to help. It had,  however, had an important say about the type of ex-  perts which were required, In the case of the Indian  Scientific Documentation Centre and the Low-  temperature Laboratory, national experts had already  taken over from the Unesco experts and no trouble  had been experienced with either project.  He welcomed the plan to help countries organize  schools of technological research, which would be  greatly appréciated because of the resulting concentra-  tion of activities ir one centre. He also welcomed the  frend towards greater flexibility,  In conclusion, he expressed the gratitude of his  country to Unesco for its help.
(14) Mr. BURNS (New Zealand) associated himself  with those who had commended Mr, Adiseshiah on the
343     excellence of his présentation of the Expanded Pro-  gramme of Technical Assistance,  He recalled that, at the eighth session of the General  Conference, Dr, Beeby, the leader of the New Zealand  delegation, had spoken about the influence of teachers  and, because of the importance attached to that sub-  ject by the Government of New Zealand, he would  stress once again its belief that the greatest contribu-  tion open to Member States was to make available  first-class, experienced teachers for international  work,  The New Zealand Ministry of Education appreciated  the fact that, if teachers occupied important positions  in their home countries, they would be reluctant to  jeopardize both their prospects and their pension |  rights by accépting posts with internätional organiza-  tions. It had therefore agreed to grant such people  leave for up to two years, during which time their  positions and opportunities for promotion were pro-  tected and pension contributions continued, If they  remained absent for a period of more than two years,  pension contributions were continued, but their posi-  tions were no longer protected. In that way, senior  officials in the field of education had been made avail-  able to Unesco, He was aware that some countries  had equally enlightened views on the subject, but to  those which had not he appealed for a liberalization  of leave conditions to help ensure that Unesco's work  wag carried out by the best specialists available,  Although he had referred specifically to teachers, his  remarks were equally applicable to all other categories  of specialists, The sacrifice to countries releasing  specialists was well worth while.  He asked the delegates present at the meeting to  try to persuade their governments to take the action  he had suggested, and urged the Secretariat to con-  tinue its efforts to obtain the best possible experts.
(16) Mr, DEBEAUVAIS (France) wished to confine  his remarks to the problems arising in connexion with  the reorganization of the Bureau of Relations with  Member States, which had just been made responsible  for administering the Technical Assistance pro-  gramme as well as the Participation programme,  Since queations relating to the administration of  that programme were essentially within the purview  of the Administrative Commission, Mr, Debeauvais  did not intend to dwell on them. He simply wished  to draw the Programme Commission's attention to  the fact that the establishment of the Bureau of Rela-  tions with Member States should make it possible to  improve the administration; he was glad that the  system of allotting éach Specialized Agency a fixed  percentage of the funds to be used under the Expanded  Programme of Technical Assistance had been given  up, for he considered that the main criterion for the  distribution of the’ funds available should be the needs  of Member States, He was therefore in favour of any  other measures which might be taken to introduce  more flexibility into the administration of the pro-  gramme. In particular, he thought that it would be  an advantage for Unesco to be able to carry appropria-  tions forward and to utilize, during a given financial  period, Technical Assistance funds which it had been  unable to employ during the preceding period. Unesco  should aleo be allowed full facilities for modifying,  in the light of the needs of Member States, the   Iv-8 PROGRAMME  Technical Assistance projects which had been inser-  ted in its programme at the beginning of each period.  The Organization should algo have more time for the  recruitment of experts,  Mr, Debeauvais then turned to the actual activities  included in Unesco's Technical Assistance programme.  He felt that the programme should be co-ordinated as  closely as possible with the Participation programme,  but such co-ordination should not be achieved at the  expense of that between the Organization's outside  activities and its general activities, In other words,  the Technical Assistance programme and the Partici-  pation programme should both be closely connected  with the general programme, Such integration should  result in better planning of projects, increased  efficiency in carrying out the work planned, ‘and more  accurate appraisal of the results secured, -  In conclusion, Mr, Debeauvais asked the Pro-  gramme Commission to state clearly the share of  responsibility which should, in its opinion, fall to the  programme departments in the selection of experts  needed for the implementation of the Technical Assis-  tance and the Participation programmes, in the pre-  paration of those two programmes, in the technical  supervision of their implementation, and in the evalua-  tion of their results.
(16) Mr. THOMPSON (Unitéd Kingdom) assured the  Commission of his Government's support in the field  of Technical Assistance, ;  He then appealed to the Secretariat to keep thé  administrative responsibilities of experts to a mini-  mum, saying that frequently disappointment had arisen  because a long-awaited expert had, on his arrival,  found himself the head of a mission, and as such, had  had to undertake bureaucratic functions which kept  him from getting down to work for which he had been  appointed. Further disappointment had been caused  when, In the middle of his assignment, he had had to  fly off to attend a meeting of Heads of Missions, the  benefits of which were not immediately perceptible.
(17) Mr. PINO SAAVEDRA (Chile) entirely approved  the statement made by Mr. Adiseshiah; and was  satisfied with the flexibility of the methods used in  carrying out the Technical Assistance programme.  He hoped that the appropriate bodies would examine  projects thoroughly in the light of the requests made  for experts or equipment, so that the means afforded  might be put to better use.  He spoke of the establishment of a centre at the  University of Concepcién, where the expert, though  somewhat at séa at the beginning, had rapidly solved  the various problems set him.  He considered that fellowship holders should follow  up the work of the experts, who should not themselves  be too elderly.  He was pleased by the Assistant Director-General's  report, which he heartily approved throughout, and  urged that his recommendations be borne in mind, for  the good of Unesco, of Technical Assistance and of  Member States,
(18) Mr. ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director-General)  thanked delegates for their useful statements, which  had further convinced him of the wide support of Mem-  ber States for the Technical Assistance programme.
344     COMMISSION  He associated himself with the opinion, expressed by  the delegates of Belgium and the Netherlands, that  Unesco's programme of Technical Assistance should  conform to its basic objectives, The Executive Board  took that into account when examining the proposed  programme. The Secretariat would incorporate the  valuable suggestions mdde into the programme,  and those requiring policy decisions wauld be put  before the Executive Board,  Referring to the remarks made by the delegates of  Israel and Iran, he said. that he was opposed to setting  an arbitrary figure for use for any specific purpose,  Under the country-planning procedure, each country  could choose how to use its Technical ‘Assistance  allocation, The Economic and Social Council had re-  quested Member States to see that their requests for  Technical Assistance were well balanced over all  fields, and the system of sub- -totals for each Agency  provided an additional guarantee.  The suggestions made with regard to the selection  of experts had already in large part been incorporated  by the Secretariat into the criteria it used, though it  had deliberately excluded an account of its selection  procedures, as it felt that they had béen explained  frequently in the past, A paper on the criteria fol-  lowed for the selection of experts could be made avail-  able to members of the Commission on request, While  agreeing that experts were hard’ to find at all levels,  he did not think that the problems facing Member  States in that respect were due to scarcity, but rather  to the difficulty of determining their true needs.  Replying to the delegate of the United States of  America, he said that priority for Technical Assis-  tance was given to continuing programmes. As soon  as national experis could be trained, responsibility  was transferred to them and the programme ceased  gradually to receive assistance.  Many delegates had agreed with the proposals being  made to co-ordinate the Technical Assistance and  Participation programmes and had suggested that action  should be taken to co-ordinate them at the national  level, Co-ordination at the national level was entirely  the responsibility of governments and could not be  undertaken by Unesco.  He informed the delegate of Denmark that, at the  moment, 28 women experts were employed by Unesco,  and assured her that efforts would be made to contime  employing women experts. While agreeing with the  delegate of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics that  the question of geographical distribution was important  in the selection of experts, he pointed out that the  experts already employed came from 38 different ¢oun-  tries, Experts did not come only from the developed  countries. The Latin American countries had discovered,  after four years of experiment, that the best experts for  their use were of Latin American or Spanish origin.  In conclusion, he said that he was sure the Commis-  sion would wish to record its thanks to the 234 staff  members in the field, who were working under con-  ditions of varying hardship.
(19) The Programme Commission unanimously adopted  the four draft resolutions concerned with the Technical  Assistance programme (paragraphs 18-46 in Annex 1  of document 9C/5).  The meeting rose at 6.40 p.m,