CHAPTER IX  CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE  FIRST MEETING
5 November 1956, at 3,15 p.m,  Chairman: Mr. KAHUDA (Czechoslovakia)  ELECTION OF THE CHAIRMAN
(1) Mr. SABA (Representative of the Director-  General) said that the Committee's first task was to  elect its Chairman, and that the Executive Board had  suggested that the dutles of that office be entrusted  to the delegate of Czechoslovakia.
(2) On the proposal of the delegate of India, H,E.  Mr, F. Kahuda (Czechoslovakia) was unanimously  elected Chairman,  EXAMINATION OF CREDENTIALS
(3) Mr. SABA (Representative of the Director-  General) said that credentials had been received from
66 Member States. Thirty-six were in due form, in  accordance with Rule 22 of the Rules of Procedure of  the General Conference. They were from the  following countries: Afghanistan, Australia, Bulgaria,  Union of Burma, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist  Republic, Cambodia, Ceylon, China, Colombia,  Czechoslovakia, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Federal  Republic of Germany, Guatemala, Haiti, India,  Indonesia, Iran, Israel, Korea, Liberia, Netherlands,  New Zealand, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Poland, Rumania,  Saudi Arabla, Sweden, Syria, Thailand, Ukrainian  Soviet Socialist Ri pu} lic, Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics, United Kiigdom, Uruguay, Viet-Nam.  Thirty Member States had so far presented only  provisional credentials; the speaker explained,  however, that the Committee could recommend that  the General Conference authorize their representatives  to be seated with full rights, pending the presentation  of credentials in due form. These States were the  following: Argentina, Austria, Belgium, Brazil,  Canada, Chile, Cuba, Denmark, Dominican Republic,  Ecuador, Ejypt, Finland, France, Hungary, Italy,  Japan, Leds, Lebanon, Mexico, Monaco, Nepal,  Norway, Panama, Peru, Spain, Switzerland, Turkey,  United States of America, Venezuela, Yugoslavia,  Regular credentials had been received accrediting:  (a) The representatives of the following Associate  Members: British Caribbean Group, Gold Coast,  Malaya -British Borneo Group and Nigeria;  (b) The observers from the following States not
707     Members of the Organization: Holy See, Ireland,  Morocco, Sudan;  {c) The representatives ot the United Nations and  of the following Specialized Agencies: International  Labour Organisation, World Health Organization,  Food and Agriculture Organization of thé United  Nations, Inte rpational Civil Aviation Organization,  World Meteorological Organization; and  (éd) The observers from the following inter -  governmental organizations: Organization of American  States, Ibero-American Bureau of Education.
(4) The CHAIRMAN thanked the members of the  Committee for the confidence they had shown in him  by electing him Chairman, and said that he relied on  the co-operation of all in carrying out his duties,  Rule 28 of the Rules of Procedure of the General  Conference stated that the Committee's function was  to examine and report to the Conference without delay  on the credentials of the delegations of Member States  and Associate Members, of representatives of the  United Nations and the Specialized Agencies, and of  observers sent by non-Member States and other inter-  governmental organizations, He asked the Secretary  to explain the procedure that had to be followed,
(5) Mr, KEMENOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) proposed that the following recommenda-  tion be submitted to the General Conference:  "Taking into consideration the fact that the  Kuomintang group which is located at present at  Taiwan and which signed the credentials of the  delegation to this Conference does not and cannot  represent the multi-million Chinese people and their  sovereign State, comprising almost one-fourth of  humanity, the Committee recommends to the Con-  ference to consider the credentials of the Kuomintang  delegation as non-valid,"
(6) Mr, McCLINTOCK (United States of America)  said that, since the credentials submitted by the  delegation of China were in regular form, he would  move that the Committee consider the following  resolution:  "The General Conference decides to adjourn any  consideration, at its ninth session, of any proposals  to exclude the representatives of the Government of   CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE IX-1  the Republic of China or to seat representatives of  the Central People's Government of the People's  Republic of China,"  In his opinion, that resolution, being purely  procedural, should have priority over the resolution  submitted by the delegate of the Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics.
(7) Mr, KABIR (India) declared that, should the  Committee decide to consider the United States  resolution first, he would have to make certain  observations,
(8) Mr. SABA (Representative of the Director-  General) pointed out that the credentials transmitted  by the delegation of the Republic of China were issued  by the same authorities as had presented credentials  to the General Conference at its previous sessions.  He added that, at the eighth session, a delegation had  similarly contested the validity of the Chinese  delegation's credentials; another delegation had, by  a procedural résolution, invited the Conference to  adjourn, for the duration of the session, considera-  tion of any proposal to exclude the delegation of the  Republic of China; and the’ Credentials Committee,  to which the two proposals were referred, had  decided by a vote which of them should be voted upon  fist.
(9) Mr, KEMENOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) said that the arguments put forward by the  United States delegate were based on the procedure  adopted at the previous session of the Geheral Con-  ference, but it was an issue which had already arisen  at various meetings of the Executivé Board and other  bodies and on evéry occasion it had been stated that  the meeting had no authority to settle the problem, as  the decision rested with the General Conférence, The  Director-General had announced at his press con-  ference that the Conference could take decisions  without waiting for a lead from the United Nations.  Just such a case was now at issue and the Committee  was therefore in a position to deal with it. As Mr.  Nehru had so rightly said, an Organization which  claimed to be world-widé would forfeit its claim if  almost a quarter of the world's population remained  outside Unesco. He asked the Chairman to open an  ascertaining to whit extent the credentials of the:  Chinese delegation to the Conference were valid, In  his opinion, the delegates did not represent the great  people of China nor its sovereign State. The facts  under discussion came within the province of inter-  national law and they could not be brushed aside by  procedural considerations, If, after due considéra-  tion of the question, no agreement was reached and  those credentials were not recognized as invalid, the  Committee's report to the General Conference should  give an account of the discussion and all opinions  expresséd; the Committee would then be really  carrying out the task entrusted to it instead of con-  fining itself to explaining why the question could not  be discussed and a decision taken,
(10) Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil)  considered that the terms of reference of the  Committee were exclusively legal and procedural,
708     and that the United Nations alone had power to  consider the question of substance,
(11) Mr, KABIR (India) was of the opinion that the  Chinese delegation could not be considered as true  and full representatives of the whole of China, and  that their credentials were not valid.
(12) Mr, McCLINTOCK (United States of America)  proposed that the precedent set by the General  Conference at its previous session be followed and  that a vote be takeñ to decide which of the two  resolutions before the Committee should be examined  first,
(13) Mr, GOLUNSKY (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) spoke about the legal aspect of the  question and emphasized that the problem was not  simply one of procedure. The meeting had two  proposals before it and the speaker asked for a vote  to be taken on both.
(14) Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil)  seconded the proposal of the United States delegate  that a vote be taken to determine which of the two  motions should be considered first.
(15) The CHAIRMAN considered the proposal of the  United States delegate to be a rep:tition of his  previous proposal, There could te no question of  priority, as his motion was v2t zune of procedure,
(16) After the United States representative had again  called for a vote on the order in which the two  resolutions should be considered, Mr, de BERREDO  CARNEIRO (Brazil) observed {hat the procedure  recommended was the only one by which the dispute  could be settled,
(17) Mr. KEMENOV (Union of Soviet Soclalist  Republics) said that Mr, McClintock thought that the  Committee should close the discussion and get down  to work, or, in other words to voting, Mr, Kemenov  held that work meant something more than voting, He  did not agree with Mr, Carnéiro, who contended that  the discussion was idle, If there were any doubts  regarding the validity of any credentials, it was for  the Committee to dispel them, as it was the only  body empowered to do so. All aspects of the  question were dealt with in document 45 EX/14,  which contained Kuomintang statements concerning  the People's Republic of China that Mr. Kemenov  considered unacceptable, The Republic of China was  asking to be granted the right to vote even though its  arrears of contributions amounted to more than
4, 000, 000 United States dollars. At the Paris session  of the Executive Board, Mr. Kemenov had criticized  the attitude of certain Secretariat officials who, when  drawing up the work plans, had already anticipated  that the Republic of China would not pay its  contribution and had included the undistributed reserve  to meet unforeseen circumstances,
(18) Mr, COWELL (United Kingdom) said that the  delegate of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics  had, in his previous speech, dealt with the matter  of substance, and reminded the Committee that it   CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE  was not competent to toch on financial questions,  He wished to support the United States delegate's  motion for a vote on the question of giving priority  to one of the two motions before the Committee and,  as a point of order, asked the Chairman to put that  motion, which had already been seconded by the  Brazilian delegate, to the vote,
(19) Mr, KEMENOY' (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) emphasized that the question of the  representation of China came up at every session,  and it was therefore a matter of urgency to take a  decision in the matter, As China was a Member of  the Organization, it should be genuinely represented  by persons accredited by the Government supported  by the overwhelming majority of the Chinese people.  He quoted opinions expressed by some of the  world's leading thinkers, which coincided with his  own stateinents, It would only be strengthening  Unesco's authority to recognize the true |  representatives of China, The argument that the  representation of China in Unesco depended on the  decision to be taken by the United Nations could not  be taken sériously, It had to be remembered that  some Members of Unesco did not belong to the,  United Nations. The representation of any country  in Unesco should not be confused with the recognition  of that State by other countries, The existence of  the People's Republic of China was a fact that had  to be borne in mind, quite apart from the question  of its recognition by other States. The admission  of that Republic to membership of Unesco would  greatly strengthen East-West cultural exchanges,
(20) The CHAIRMAN called for views as to which  of the resolutions should be voted on first,
(21) Mr. SABA (Representative of the Director-  General) reminded the Committee that it should take  a decision on the order in which the two resolutions  submitted to it should be considered.
(22) Mr. McCLINTOCK (United States of America)  reminded the Committee that he had formally moved  that the American resolution be voted on first.  {23) The CHAIRMAN asked the Committee to vote  on whether it should first take up the resolution  proposed by the representative of the United States  of America,
(24) It was decided by 6 votes to 3, to discuss that  resolution first.
(25) Mr. KABIR (India) proposed to amend the draft  resolution presented by the delegate of the United  States of America, as follows: after the words  "The General Conference", the resolution would  read: ",,.decides to defer to the end of this month  a decision on the validity of the credentials  presented by the ,delegation claiming to represent  the Republic of China". That text, he added, would  show that Unesco did not wish to anticipate the  United Nations decision, which might be made during  the month of November,
(26) Mr, MACLINTOCK (United States of America)
709  IX-1  said that, rather than an amendment to his own  motion, the Indian delegate had presented an  altogether different resolution,
(27) In the course. of an exchange ‘ot views on the  consequences that the adoption of the Indian Aamend-  ment would have, Mr, SABA (Representative of the  Director-General) drew attention to the provisions  of Rule 24 of the Rules of Procedure of the  Conference, concerning the provisional admission  to a session of a State to whose admission objection  had been made,
(28) Mr, KEMENOV (Union ot Soviet Socialist  Republics) thought it inappropriate to apply the Rule  in question, as acceptance of the Indian amendment  would dela 4 submission of the Commiftee's report  for a month, thus giving the delegation of the Republic  of China the opportunity of taking part in the whole  session; that proposal, differing from the one made  by the Soviet Union, had not so far been discussed by  the Committee. The Indian delegation had brought up  the fact that there was a danger that the status quo  with regard to China might continue indefinitely. He  thought that a vote should first be taken on the Indian  amendment,
(29) The CHAIRMAN called for a vote on India's  proposal to defer consideration of the question until  the end of the month,
(30) As that proposal was rejected by 6 votes to 3,  the meeting then went on to consider the United States  proposal,
(31) Mr, KEMENOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) said that the resolution before the Com-  mittee should be solely concerned with the validity  of the credentials submitted by the Republic of  China; the second part of the resolution, referring  to the seating of representatives of the People's  Republic of China at the Conference could not be  discussed by the meeting,
(32) Mr. McCLINTOCK (United States of America)  pointed out that the second part of the resolution he  had presented constituted a negative reply to the  point made by the delegate of the Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics,  ( 33) Mr, KABIR (India) thought that, in view of the  explanation’ just given by the delegate of the United  States of America, the Américan resolution could  hardly be considered merely procedural, He then  moved the following amendment to the resolution:  to substitute for the words "or to seat .., People's  Republic of China" ".,,unless the General Assembly  of the United Nations takes a contrary decision on  this issue,"
(34) Mr. KEMENOV (Union of Soviet Siscialist -  Republics) asked the Chairman to read out his own  resolution, which merely advocated non-recognition  of the credentials submitted by the delegation of the  Républié of China. The meeting could not vote on a  question that had not been formally submitted or  discussed.   CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE IX-1
(38) Mr, CABOUAT (France) said that his delegation  would vote in favour of the text proposed by the Indian  delegate, linking the decision on the validity of the  credentials presented by the delegation of the Republic  of China with any decision on the subject taken by the  United Nations,
(38) Mr, KEMENOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) read out his draft resolution and  emphasized that the Committee could not vote on the  second part of the resolution submitted by Mr,  McClintock,
(37) Mr, de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) proposed  taking a vote first on the first part of the United  States draft resolution, and then on the second part,  beginning with the words "or to seat,..",
(38) Mr. KABIR (India) ¢onsideréd that his amendment  to the American resolution should be voted on first  and that Mr. Carneiro's suggestion could be followed  only if the amendment were rejected. He felt sure  that the general desire was that representatives of  about one-quarter of humanity should be admitted to  the Conference, and his amendment had the  advantage of reserving a final decision until the  United Nations had taken a stand on the matter of  substance,
(39) Mr. McCLINTOCK (United States of America)  explained that the American resolution had been  drafted in order to face the two aspects of the  problem, He added that he would abstain in the vote  on the Indian amendment.
(40) Mr, KEMENOV (Union of Soviet Soctalist  Republics) repeated that the Soviet Union's proposal  merely advocated that the credentials submitted by  the Republic of China be considered invalid, There  was no question of procedure, The Commiitee should  confine itself to voting on the credentials of the  Republic of China and should leave aside the question  of the representation of the People's Republic of  China, which was outside its terms of reference.
(41) Mr, GOLUNSKY (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) said that the meeting should vote on the  United States proposal, If that were accepted, the  amendment could then be voted on separately.
(43) Mr, de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) thought  it would bé advisable first to put the Indian amend-  ment to the vote and then, if it were rejected, to  revert to his own proposal that the United States draft  resolution be voted upon in two parts.
(43) In reply to a question from the United States  delegate, Mr, KABIR (India) said that, if his  resolution were adopted he would abstain from voting  on the amended resolution as a whole,
(44) Mr, McCLINTOCK (United States of America)  stated that, in view of Mr. Kabir's explanation of  his stand, he would reverse his previous decision  and vote against the Indian amendment,
(45) Mr. CABOUAT (France) believed that the United
710     States draft resolution, with the Indian amendment,  should meet.the wishes of the representative of the  Soviet Union,
(46) Mr, KEMENOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republica) said that he was against the apparent desire  to defer all proposals concerning China, for the Com-  mittee could not reject without discussion any new  proposals that might be put forward, He asked the  Chairman to devise some means of informing the  Conference of the course of the discussion in the  Committee.
(47) After the United States delegate had pointed out  that it was the second of the Indian representativeis  amendments which was to be put to the vote, Mr.  CABOUAT (France) moved the closure of the debate,
(48) Mr, KEMENOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) gathered that acceptance of the United  States delegate's proposal would mean deferring  consideration of the credentials of the delegation of  the Republic of China for a month, unless a decision  on the subject were taken by the General Conference  itself,
(48) Mr. SABA (Representative of the Director-  General) drew the Committee's attention to what the  legal position would be if the United States resolution  were adopted, The validity of the credentials  presented by a delegation had beén contested, and the  Committee had then had submitted to it a proposal to  defer consideration of the matter. If the pruposal to  defer consideration of the challenge to the credentials  presented hy the Chinese delegation were adopted,  the resulting situation would be the one to which Rule
24 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Conference  applied, unless - as had occurred at the last session  of the Conference - the Credentials Committee decided  otherwise.
(50) Mr. KABIR (India) withdrew his amendment, in  order to avoid complicating the discussion,
(51) Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) there-  upon repeated his proposal that the United States  resolution be put to the vote in two parts,
(52) Mr. CABOUAT (France) presented the amend-  ment originally submitted by the Indian delegate,  as an amendment of the French delegation, and drew  attention to the fact that, under Rule 76 of the Rules  of Procedure, only two speakers might be accorded  permission to speak once the closure of the debate  had been moved,
(53) Mr, KEMENOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) asked for the proposals before the meet-  ing to be presented in writing, and for a ten-minute  adjournment to allow time for the drafts to be  reproduced. He said that he could not define his  attitude until he had received the United States  proposal in writing,
(54) Mr. CABOUAT (France) called upon the Chairman  to declare the debate closed and take a vote on the  texts of the United States resolution and the amendment   CREDENTIALS  originally proposed by the Indian delegation as soon  as they had been circulated,
(55) Mr, SABA (Representative of the Directors  General) pointed out that the Committee had before  it two procedural motions: that of the Soviet Union,  for the suspension of the meeting, and that of the  French representative, for the closure of the debate.  Under Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, the former  had priority.
(56) After the French representative had stated that  he concurred in Mr, Saba's view and would  accordingly withdraw, for the time being, his motion  for the closure of the debate, the CHAIRMAN put to  the vote the Soviet Union's motion for the suspension  of the meeting.
(67) The motion was sdopted by 8 votes in favour,  with 1 abstention,  (The meeting was suspended at 5,20 p, m, )
(58) After a suspension of 30 minutes to enable the  drafts to be distributed; the CHAIRMAN reopened  the discussion at 5.50 p. m.
(59) Mr. SABA (Representative of the Director-  General), in reply to a question by the delegate of  the Soviet Union, stated that the powers of the  Committee extended only to examining the credentials  submitted to it by delegations and to reporting on their  validity but that, nevertheless, a resolution similar  to the one submitted by the United States delegation  had been adopted by the Credentials Committee at the  previous session of the Conference,
(60) Mr, KABIR (India) felt that the Committee was  not obliged to take that precedent into account; he  considered it unwarranted. Since rejection of the  Soviet Union's resolution would evidently have the  same effect as adoption of the United States resolution,  he proposed that the Soviet Union's resolution be put  to the vote first,
(61) Mr. McCLINTOCK (United States of America)  pointed out that the Committee had already decided  to vote first on the United States resolution, If the  Committee thought it advisable, he was willing to  add the following preamble to his resolution: "The  Credentials Committee recommends that the General  Conference adopt the following résolution:"
(62) Mr, KEMENOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) did not agree with the conclusions of the  United States delegate, which in his opinion went  beyond the Committee's {erms of reference and  touched on questions that were exclusively within  the competence of the General Conference. He  supported the delegate of India and thought that it  was not legally correct for the Committee to discuss  the subject raised, It was not worth while having  convened a ninth session of the General Conference  to achieve only that result; it would have been  sufficient to accept the decisions of the eighth  session. Unesco was fully entitled to set a precedent.  Mr, Kemenov wished to know whether the Credentials  Committee was legally empowered to take an  independent decision concerning the credentials  submitted.
711     COMMITTEE -IX-1
(63) Mr, SABA (Representative of the Director-  General) thought that it was indeed questionable  whether the Committee was competent to take a  decision on a draft resolution concerning the  admission of the delegates of a Government which  was not in fact represented at the Conference and had  not transmitted credentials, At the preyious  session of the Conference, however, the Committee  and the Conference had decided that the Committee  was competent to do so, In his opinion, any proposal  to defer consideration of a challenge to a delegation's  credentials was valid,
(64) At the proposal of the French delegate, the  CHAIRMAN took a vote on the motion for the closure  of the debate,
(65) The motion was adopted by 7 votes to 1, without  abstention,
(68) The CHAIRMAN thought that the Committee  should first vote on the French amendment.
(67) After the delegate of the Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics had explained his vote, ‘a vote  was taken on the French amendment, with the follow-  ing result: 4 votes in favour, 4 against and 1  abstention,
(68) Mr. SABA (Representative of the Director-  General) reminded the Committee of the provisions  of Rule 90 of the Rules of Procedure, and stressed  that it was a matter of urgency for the Committee to  present its report to the Conference,
(69) Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) proposed  that, under Rule 108, Rule 90 be suspended,
(70) The proposal was seconded by the United Kingdom  delegate,
(71) Mr. SABA (Representative of the Director-  Gene ral) observed that Rule 108, which was part of  sect on XX of the Rules of Procedure, did not apply  to the proceedings of Committees. He proposed that  a second vote be taken.  In reply to a question from the Indian delegate he  added that his authority for the statement he had just  made was Rule 48; to scttle the matter, he proposed  that Rule 84 be applied - which provided that, when  the result of a vote by show of hands was in doubt,  the President might take a second vote, by roll-call,
(72) After a lengthy exchange of views between the  members of the Committee about which rule to  apply, the CHAIRMAN put to thé vote the following  composite proposal, suggested by the French  representative and supported by the Brazilian and  United States delegates: (1)'a motion for the  adjournment of thé meeting; (2) a proposal that the  Committee's second meeting be held at 7,15 p.m,  the same day; (3) a proposal by the Chairman that  the agenda of the second meeting include further con-  sideration of the credentials of the Chinese delegation.
(73) The composite proposal was adopted by 8 votes tol,  The meeting rose at 7 p,m,