VIII-7  in which intergovernmental conferences were called  by Uhesco itself and riot those called jointly by Unesco  and other arganinations (e.g. the Conference on  “neighbouring rights"; convened by Unesco, ILO and  the Berne Bureau); (4) observations concerning the  definition of non-governmental conferences, which  might bring together not only non- overnmental  organizations but also representatives of inter-  governmental organizations and certain persons  attending in an individual capacity.    LEGAL COMMITTEE
(40) Document 9C/ADM/ 14 was adopted,
(41) The CHAIRMAN informed the Committee that  the draft resolution submitted by Greece had been  modified by the Greek Government, and that the  General Committee of the Conference had decided that  the legal question referred to the Committee was no  longer applicable,  The meeting rose at 5.15 p.m.  SEVENTH MEETING
(1) The CHAIRMAN opened the meeting at 3.45 p.m.  As there was not a quorum, he suspended proceedings  for ten minutes, in conformity with the provisions of  Rule 69 of the Rules of Procedure of the General  Conference.  {The meeting was suspended at 3.50 p.m. and  resumed at 4 p.m, ) ’  FOURTH REPORT OF THE LEGAL COMMITTEE  (document 9C/JUR/PROV/ 8)
(2) The CHAIRMAN submitted document 9C/JUR/  PROV/6 for approval,
(3) - The firat part of the report: "Item 14.1 of the  revised agenda: Draft amendments to the Rules of  Procedure of the General Conference (document
9C/ADM/13)" was approved, Heo
(4) The second part of the report: "Item 14. 3 of the  revised agenda: Report on the application of the Rules  of Procedure for the calling of international con-  ferences of States (document 9C/ADM/14)" was  approved.
(5) The third part of the report, "Inclusion in the  final agenda of the General Conference of an item
700  proposed by the Government of Greece: measures to  be taken and recommendations to be made witha  view to ensuring that Member States maintain the 17  free functioning of education in the territories under  their administration" was approved. NE os
(6) The CHAIRMAN, after declaririg the fourth repoit  of the Legal Committee adopted said that, unless .  another Commission were to seek ita opinion on any-  specific question, the work of the Legal Committee ;:  had been concluded.  He thanked the members for their éo- operation and  observed that there was reason for satisfaction at the  unanimous agreement achieved on every one of the ;  items considered. :
(7) Mr. SIMSARIAN (United States of America), on ;  behalf of his colleagues, thanked Mr. Matsui for his.  services as Chairman ot the Committee.
(8) Mr. JOUBERT (Laos) thanked the Legal Adviser,  on behalf of the Committee, for all the help he had  given by his advice.
(9) The CHAIRMAN added the Committee's thanks to  Mr, Lussier, the members of the Secretariat, the |  interpreters and the minute-writers.  The meeting rose at 4,45 p.m,