5 November 1956, at 7,15 p.m,  Chairman: Mr, KAHUDA (Czechoslovakia)  EXAMINATION OF CREDENTIALS (continued)
(1) The CAAIRMAN opened the Committee's second  meeting, which had to discuss the credentials of  China and other delegations,
(2) A second vote was taken on a French amendment  to the United States proposal, which was rejected by
(3) Mr. SABA’ (Representative ot the Director-  General) stated that, in conformity with the proposal  of the delegate of Brazil, the Committee should next  vote on the first part of the United States draft  resolution up to "'.. . Government of the Republic of  Chine", .
(4) The first part of the United States draft  resolution was adopted, by 6 votes to 3,
(8) The CHAIRMAN then put the second part of the  draft resolution to the vote,
(6) It was adopted by 5 votes to 4,
(7) Mr, KEMENOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) regretted the result of the voting, for the  reasons he had previously outlined, He considered  that the vote was in clear violation of the Committee's  terms of reference, He asked the Chairman to include  € paragraph on that point in his report.
(8) Mr. SABA (Representative of the Director-  General) said that, in its report, the Committee  should mention that: -  (i) During the discussion of the credentials  submitted by the Republic of China, two resolutions  were proposed and priority for consideration was given  to one of them; the resolution proposed by the .  delegation of the United States of America had been  adopted, and before the vote was taken, doubts had  been expressed as to the Committee's competence to  deal with the question to which the second part of the  resolution referred,  (ii) The Committee accepted as being in order the  credentials presented by 40 States (the Secretariat  having received further regular credentials, from  Laos, Finland, Italy and Japan, during the afternoon);  (iil) The Committee recommended the Conference  to authorize the delegations that had so far submitted  only provisional credentials to take their seats with  full rights pending the regularization of the necessary  documents;  (iv) The Committee had also received and found in  order the credentials submitted by the delegates of  Associate Members and by the observers from non-  Member States and intergovernmental organizations.
712  He added that the Committee should also state, it  it agreed, that the situation that had arisen with regard  to the Chinese delegation was one that came under  Rule 24 of the Rules of Procedure,
(8) Following an exchange of views with the Director-  General's representative, Mr. McCLINTOCK (United  States of America) proposed the following motion:  "that the name of the Republic of China be included in  the list of States whose credentials are approved by  this Committee",
(10) Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) seconded  the motion.
(11) Mr, KABIR (India) thought that the question  should be discussed by the General Conference  itself,
(12) Mr. KEMENOV (Union ot Soviet Socialist  Republics) read out Rule 24 of the Rules of Procedure  of the Conference and remarked that the procedure  approved by the.General Conference was quite clear,  The Committee could not amend the Rules of Procedure  because an unusual situation had arisen, Despite what  the Director-General's representative had said, doubts  had arisen in the Committee abo, MY the validity of the  credentials of the Republic of Chifa, “The proposal of  the United States of America was hot in‘order, The  Committee's proposals to the General Conference  should be well considered and should have a sound  legal basis. Until the General Conference received the  report of the Committee, the delegation of the  Republic of China could take part in the Conference's  work only on a provisional footing.  {13) After’ türier explanations by Mr, SABA (Rep-  resentative of e Director-General), Mr.  McCLINTOCK (United States of America) made certain  changes in his motion as follows: "The Credentials  Committee rejécts the challenge which has been made  against the admission of the Republic of China as a _  Member State, and requests the Chairman so to report  to the General Conference,"
(14) Mr. SABA (Representative of the Director- :  General) proposed that, in its report, the Committee  state that its Chairman had been empowered tô report  immediately to the General Conference on any new  credentials submitted, so as to enable the members of  the delegation concerned to take part in the voting.
(15) After a discussion on a motion for the closure  of the debate, Mr. KABIR (India) raised a point of  order. He corsidered that the motion of the delegate  of the United States of America was incompatible  with the resolution previously adopted by the Committee,   CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE
(16) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL did not think that  the motion submitted by the delegate of the United  States of America was incompatible with the  resolution previously adopted by the Committee,  and felt that it was necessary as a means of determin-  ing whether the representatives of China were to be  seated provisionally or finally.
(17) Mr. KABIR (India) thought that it was for the  General Conference itself to take a decision on that  point.
(18) In reply to à question from the delegate of the  Union of Soviet Socialist Republics the DIRECTOR- .  GENERAL, explained that, in order to avoid any  legal objection, it was, in his opinion, desirable for  the Committee's report to state that it recommended  that the delegation of the Republic of China be finally  seated, in spite of the objections that had been raised.  He added that he based his opinion on the last part  of Rule 24 of thc Rules of Procedure, reading  ",..shall be seated provisionally, . » until the  Credentials Committee has reported, .,"
(19) Mr, KEMENOV (Union of Soviet Sécialtst  Republics) asked the Director-General what was the  basis for his ‘contention that the Committee should  reject a proposal or objection put forward by a  Member State, He had gone through the section of the  Rules of Procédure relating to the Credentials  Cominittee and had found in it no authority for  rejecting an objection advanced by a Member State.  The Soviet delegation had made a proposa) that had  been rejected. The discussion had seemed to be at  an end but evidently a new point was being brought up.  Mr, Kemenov considered the United States second  proposal out of order.
(20) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL, in clarification of  his statemant, said that, in his opinion, if the  Committees did not take a decision on a motion of the  nature of that submitted by the delegate of the United
713  IX-2  States of America, which had been seconded by the  delegate of Brasil, it would in fact not have reported  on a question that it had been called upon to examine  without delay,
(21) Mr: CABOUAT (France) thought the simplest  method of enabling the Committee to express its  opinion on the question under discussion was to take  a vote on the resolution originally submitted by the  delegate of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
(22) Mr, KABIR (India), seconded by the delegate of  the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, proposed that  the motion presented by the delegation of the United  States of America be declared out of order by the  Chairman,
(23) The CHAIRMAN felt that the matter raised by the  delegation of the United States of America was not  within the Committee's terms of reference, under the  provisions of Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, He  thought that the question should be deleted from the  agenda.
(24) Mr, de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) appealed  against he Chairman's ruling under the terms of  Rule 13.
(25) The CHAIRMAN put the appeal against his  ruling, made by the delegation of Brazil, to the vote.
(26) It was approved by 6 votes to 3.
(27) The CHAIRMAN then put to the vote the motion  of the delegation of the United States of America,
(28) It was approved by 6 votes to 3.
(29) A motion for the closure was also approved by 6  votes in favour, with 1 abstention.  The meeting rose at 8,30 p.m.