GENERAL COMMITTEE  to be made. with a view to Member States' ensur-  ing the free functioning of education (document
(3) Protection of cultural properly in the event  of armed conflict (documents S5C/DR/82 Rev,,  %C/DR/119 and 8C/DR/120),  {4) Report of the Committee on Reports of  Member States (document 90/19),
(5) Report of the Executive Board on the place  and date of the tenth session of the General Con-  ference (document 9C/8), -
(6) Appointment or reappointment of the Director-  General (documents 9C/DR/122 and 9C/DR/ 132),
(21) Mr, McCLINTOCK proposed that the plenary  meeting begin by dealing with the Egyptian draft  resolution (documents 9C/DR/82 Rev., 9C/DR/119  and oC oR) 120). and then take that of Greece  (document 9C/DR/4 Rev,), going on thereafter to  administrative questions.
(22) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL reported that the  Sudan had become a Member of Unesco on 26  November. He als: reported that certain    delegations were drafting a proposed amendment'to  paragraph 2 of Rule 78 ¢f thé Rules of Procedure, -  and recommended that the Legal Committee meet on  the afternoon of Thursday, 20 November, to examine  that draft, He reminded the General Commitee that  the Headquarters Commitieé had remained unchanged  since the second extraordinary session of the General  Conférence (July 1953), and suggested that the next  meeting of the Nominations Committee consider the  desirability of changing the membership of the  Headquarters Committee and, ‘more particularly, of  increasing the number of members from the existing  figure of 14,
(23) Mr, McCLINTOCK said that the Greek délegation  had advanced arguments which had persuaded him that  it would be best to take the Greek draft resolution  {document 9C/DR/4 Rev.) as the first item at the  plenary meeting to be held on Friday 30 November,  Agreed,  The meeting rose at 10.40 a, m.  NINTH MEETING
1 December 1956, at 9,30 a.m,  Chairman: Mr, MASSAQUOI (Liberia)  VEIT OF THE PRIME MINISTER OF NEPAL
(1) The CHAIRMAN requested the General Commit-  tee's permission to invite the Prime Minister of  Nepal to attend the plenary meeting on Tuesday  afternoon, 4 December, when he would address the  General Conference,
(2) It was agreed.  PROGRESS AND ORGANIZATION OF WORK (document 90/21)
(3) The CHAIRMAN invited the Chairmen of the  Commissions to report on the progress of the  Commissions! work and to make suggestions regard-  ing the timetable for the remainder of the session  of the Conference,
(4) Mra, MYRDAL said that the Programme Com-  mission was continuing to meet three times a day  and that there was good reason to hope that it would  have completed the outstanding items on its agenda  by the énd of that day. It would, however, be  preferable for the two later meetings to be extended  and to last from 3,30 p.m, until 6,30 or 7p. m,,  and from 9 p.m. until midnight. After its joint  meetings with the Administrative Commission, both
307  in plenary Commission and in working party, the  Programme Commission should be ready on Tuesday,
4 December, to adopt its report.
(5) Mr. DAVIES said that the Administrative Com-  mission had completed the items on its agenda. It  would need tô hold a short meeting on Monday,
3 December, in the morning, to adopt its report,  He suggested that it would meet the view held by  certain delegations if the question of the composition  of the Headquarters Committee, which many were  anxious to see broadened, were discussed by the  Administrative Commission at that meeting and were  then transmitted to the Nominations Committee on  Monday afternoon, 3 December, He also suggested  that the joint meeting of the Programme and Admin-  istrative Commissions might need more than one  meeting in which to consider its heavy agenda.
(6) That suggestion was approved,
(7) It was agreed, following a suggestion by Mr.  SPILHAUS, supported by Mr, DAVIES, that a  proposed amendment to Rule 78 of the Rules of  Procedure, which would provide that no amendment  to the budget ceiling could be considered by the  General Conference unless it had been submitted at  least six weeks hefore the beginning of a session,