(61) The proposal contained in document 9C/DR/1 was  seconded by the delegate of Spain.
(63) Mr, BOURGEOIS (Switzerland) supported the  Secrétariat's proposal that the ‘question be submitted  to the International Advisory Committee'on Biblio:  graphy, which was perfectly compétent to deal with it,  The International Federation of Library Associations  had, incidentally, been stidying some of the activities  referred to in document 9C/DR/1 for several years  past. ‘He suggested that a Uruguayan representative  be invited to take part in the discussions when the pro-  posal was considered by the Advisory Committee, and  recommended that the Libraries Federation of Uruguay  become a member of the International Advisory Com-  mittee on Bibliography,
(83) Mr, ESTABLE (Uruguay) acceptéd the suggestion  of the head of the Department of Cultural Activities that  the proposal be submitted to the International Advisory  Committee on Bibliography. He stressed the impor-  tance of a clear system for the classification of books  by means of appropriate particulars, but as he was  not the expert who had prepared the draft, he would  have preferred not to speak on the subject.
(64) There being no further discussion on the item,  the CHAIRMAN called for a vote on resolution 4, 21  (paragraph 36).
(65) Thé resolution was adopted unanimously,
(66) The CHAIRMAN then put to the vote the proposal  contained in the draft resolution presented by the dele-  gation of Uruguay) (document 9C/DR/1), the budgetary  provision therefor to be $2, 000 and the method of work  to be that suggested by the Secretariat.
(67) The proposal was adopted by 43 votes to 0, with
14 abstentions.    PROGRAMME COMMISSION
4,3 International Agreements (paragraphs 52 to 91 and  documents 6C/PRG/7, 8 and 14)
(68) The CHAIRMAN called on the Rapporteur of the  special working party set up to study that question to  present his report (document 9C/PRG/14).
(69) Mr, VAN PEURSEN (Netherlands), the Rapporteur  of the working party, reported that the working party,  having examined documents 9C/PRG/7 and 9C/PRG/8,  had not altered the substance and had made only a few  corrections to the wording, ‘The working party re-  commended that they be transmitted to the General  Conference,
(70) The CHAIRMAN noted that the changes proposed  by the working party related to the draft recommenda-  tions contained in documents 8C/PRG/7, Annex, and
8C/PRG/8, Annex II,
(71) Mr, CHEDIAK (Cuba) referred to draft resolution
4,31, and proposed that the Spanish text be amended to  read "'.,, se invite a los Estados Miembros a ratificar  la Convencién Universal sobre Derecho de Autor ,,.",  instead of "a adherirse a' as many of the countries  that had signed the Convention had not yet ratified it,  and should do so as soon as possible, especially when  it was considered that they were Members of Unesco,  which had sponsored the Convention.
(12) The CHAIRMAN, having agreed with the delegate  of the United States of America that the Commission  needed time to consider the report of the working party  before proceeding to vote on resolutions 4.31 and 4.33,  adjourned further discussion of that item to the next  meeting of the Commission.  The meeting rose at 1.5 p.m.  EIGHTEENTH MEETING
26 November 1956, at 9.30 a.m.  Chairman: Mrs. MYRDAL (Sweden)  FUTURE CONDUCT OF THE COMMIION'S BUSINESS
(1) The CHAIRMAN announced that the night meetings  which it was intended to hold that week would deal with  the residual discussions on the various chapters of the  Proposed Programme and Budget, = |  In view of the short time still available to the Com-  mission in which to complete its work, she suggested  that a working party be constituted té prepare for thé  Commission's consideration of Chapter 7, Genéral  Resolutions, by holding some preliminary discussions    at two meetings on that chapter, and reporting théreon  to the Commission, . She suggested the following mem-  bership, which appeared to énsuré equitable geographical  distribution and was of a workable size, for the Com:  mission's consideration: Afghanistan, Argentina,  Australia, Colombia, Cuba, Egypt, France, India, ‘  Japan, Lebanon, Netherlands, Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics, United Kingdom and United States of America.  ‘ (2) Mr. ASSUMPÇÂO DE ARAUJO (Brazil) asked what  criteria had been used in selecting the countries to   PROGRAMME COMMISSION  serve on the working party proposed by the Chairman,  The question of Unesco's Regional Office in the Wes-  tern Hemisphere, which the working party was to study,  was primarily of concern to Brazil and all the other  Latin American countries,
(3) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the proposed  working party would, under Chapter 7, study the  questions of assistance in the development of National  Commissions, and international cultural relations,  as well as the Regional Office in the Western Hemis-  phere, She had accordingly considered that the list  she had suggested was representative of most shades  of opinion in the Commission; however, it was clearly  a matter for the Commission itself to decide,
(4) Mr, ESTELRICH (Spain) wished to make a comment  which, while it did ‘not perhaps relate directly, to the  question raised by the Chairman, neyertheless had a  bearing on it, ‘He referred to document 8C/PRG/25,  containing the Executive Board's resolution concern-  ing the Director-General's proposal for the use of the  sdditional $1,000,000 (document 9C/5 Corrigendum
4), which had been submitted for the General Con-  ference's consideration and had to be discussed; and  raised the question of the procedure to be followed in  discussing that document in conjunction with the Pro-  posed Programme and Budget.  It was possible that there werd other projects  besides those mentioned by the Director-General, and  he would therefore suggest that it might be better to  examine that document first.
(5) The CHAIRMAN explained that document
9C/PRG/25 was before the Commission for informa-  tion and did not call for any specific action.
(6) Mr, WEEDEN (Australia) was strongly in favour  of setting up a working party. His delegation could  not, however, be represented on it, for practical  reasons; he suggested that Australia be replaced by  New Zealand.
(1) Mr, KEMENOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics)  supported the proposal for setting up a working party  and suggested that, to increase its efficiency, repres-  entatives of Rumania, Burma, Sweden, the Ukraine  and Spain be added to its list of members.
(8) Mr, KISELEV (Byelorussian Soviet Socialist  Republic) seconded that proposal.
(9) Mr. CHEDIAK (Cuba) recalled that, during the  discussion on Mass Communication in the Commission,  the Cuban delegation had submitted a similar proposal  for the setting up of a working party to'examinè the  question, as some of the items in the programme then  discussed affected the activities of the Havana Regional  Office, When the proposal to set up a Regional Centre  in Argentina was discussed, it had beén agreed to  hold the matter over, but as the question had come up  again, he felt it appropriate to make a few remarks.  The general feeling of the previous meeting had been  that too many special committees were being set up  and that {t would be preferable to hold a general  debate. His delegation had bowed to the majority  opinion. Now that the question had been raised once
397  IV-18  more, he pointed out that the Programme Commission  was not competent to deal with it, as the matter of  assistance to National Commissions had been referred  to the Committee on Reports of Member States. It -  was stated in the Conference "Journal" that the General  Committee had decided that the General Conference  would study the reports of Member States, and therefore  the item should be considered as having been approved,  His second comment related to the membership of  the proposed working party, which was badly balanced.  Although the Havana Regional Office served the whole  of Latin America, the working party was to consist of  only four American members and ten from other  countries, From the beginning, therefore, the Ameri-  cans would be in the minority, He again urged that  a general debate was necessary, and added that the  time for setting up new committees was past; instead  a meeting should be set aside for the purpose of dis-  cussing both questions,
(10) Mr, SIH (China) was in favour of establishing  a working party, but thought that the item relating  to the Regional Office in the Western Hemisphere  shouldbe dealt with by the Commission as a whole.
(11) The CHAIRMAN assured the delegate of Cuba that  the well-considered reports in respect of National  Commissions presented by the Committee on Reports  of Member States would be available to the working  party and the Commission and would prove most  valuable,
(12) The proposal to set up a working party to consider  Cahpter 7 was approved by 31 votes to 2, with 9  abstentions.
(13) Mr. CHEDIAK (Cuba) expresséd his ‘agreement,  except with regard to the first item relating to the  question ôf Assistance to National Commissions, and  asked the Chairman to make it clear that ‘that item had  already been dealt with in'the report on the structure  and working methods of National Commissions. The  resolution of the General Committee had been published  in the "Journal" for 26 November and the discussion of  the report of the Committee on Reports of Member  States was included in the agenda of the plenary meeting  to be held on 30 November, He concluded by asking  whether the item should not be withdrawn from the Com-  mission, since it had already been referred to the  plenary Conference,
(14) The CHAIRMAN recalled. that she had statéd, when  the Commission had consideréd the report of the Com-  mittee on Reports of Mémber States, in respect of  which it had taken action only on minor details, that  the Commission would have to study some of its re-  commendations at a later juncture in connexion with  the chapter relating to General Resolutions, However,  in order to avoid any confusion, she proposed that the  question of National Commissions be discussed only  in the Programme Commission as a whole and not in  the working party.
(15), Mr. FATONE (Argentina) asked the Chairman  whether the question of the Havana Regional Office  had any bearing on the proposal to set up a Regional  Centre in Buenos Aires.
(18) “The ‘CHAIRMAN assured the delegate of Argentina  that the proposal for the esteblishment of a Régional  Centre in Buenos Aires could also be considered at  that juncture, <0  © fhe proposed that the composition of the working  party to consider Chapter 7 should, in addition to the  list she had suggested earlier, include delegates: of  ‘Brasil, Burma, Spain, Sweden and either Rumania or  the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic,  Agreed
(17) The CHAIRMAN announced that the working party  would meet thé following day.  She also called thé Commission's: ‘attention to the  desirability of setting up a drafting committee to ap-  prove the final form of the resolutions adopted by the  Commission, She would return to that point at some  later stage, when she would invite suggestions for  membership.
(18) Mr) HOPE (United s States of America) sald that  his delegation; ‘as well ss certain others, wis’copcer -  ned by the tact that the Commission was so far behind  its schedule, It was therefore regreitable that a  procedural point,’ ‘Such ds’ the ‘establishment of a’  working party, should have ‘occupied do much ‘of the  Commission's time, >In future, such’ matters ’éould  be left mainly to the Chairman, who enjoyed the con-  fidence of all,” He also urged the Cémmissiori to limit  its discussions to major considerations,  His delegation had been disturbed by the very large  number of draft resolutions which had been submitted  during the current ‘session,’ particularly in view of  the inadequate’ information available about them and  the impgsdibility of entering into consultation with  govern énts at that late stage, Moreover, the  Directo -Géneral's programme and budget contained  a wide field of activities which merited thorough study.  His delegation would, for those reasons, be obliged  to oppose most of the draft resolutions, regardless of  their merit - which, in many cases, was very real.  ITEM 9.4 OF Tue AGENDA : CULTURAL ACTIVITIES (continued)  (documents 8C/5 and Addenda sad Corrigenda)
4,3 international Agreements {continued)(paragraphs
52 to 91 and documents 9C/PRG/7, 8 and 14)
(18) The CHAIRMAN invited the Commission to ex-  clude paragraphs 76 to 84 of that section from its  consideration, . as it had no recommendations ‘available  on them from the Working Party. on International  Regulations. . She expressed appreciation to that  Working Party for its report (document 9C/PRG/14).
(20) Mr, SABA (Legal ‘Adviser), replying toa question  raised earlier by the Cuban delegate, explained tha,  the French text of draft resolution 4.31. :was the correct  one, and that the English warding should be slightly  amended to read "Member States are invited to be-  come parties to ...".-.The Spanish text was being .  amended at the moment.. The use of general terms  such as "become parties" was deliberate, the aim “,  being to leave every possible opening for States to ,  become parties to such conventions in the future.
(21) - The’ CHAIRMAN suggested that the Commission’  consider firai the draft recommendation on’ internation  ‘principles applicable to archaeological excavations:  (docuinent 9C/PRG/T), together with the Working P  comments and drafting amendments (document 06 PR  paragraph 3).  RA 4 i a
(22) Mr, “THOMAS ‘(Assistant Diteétor-Géneral)  stated that, if the Commission wére fo adopt the report,  it'would, for the first time {n thé Organization's +  history,’ be Ridirivs 10 the Conference the adoption  of a recommendation embodying regulations, That  i  _procedure, although provided for in the Unesco Con-  stitution, had in fact never before been used.’
(23) Mr, ANAS (Afghanistan) apprecidted the recom-  mendations made by the Working Party both in respéct  of document 9C/PRG/7 and of the draft recomniendations  to Member States on regulations ‘for international ‘tom.  petitions in architecture and town planning (document
9C/PRG/8), The former contained no standard regu-  lations regarding archaeological excavations. He would  welcome such a pattern which Member States would be  able to adjust as best suited their local conditions, ~
(24) Mr. NIELSEN (Denmark) stated that, for purely  formal reasons, his country would not be able to adhere  to the recommendation on international principles  ‘applicable to archaeological excavations, as some pro-  visions were not compatible with the complex legis-  lation existing in that regard in Denmark. However,  he assured the Commission that Denmark would comply  with those principles as far as possible,
(25) The CHAIRMAN sald that delegations would have  the opportunity of expressing such reservations by  their vote. _
(26) Mr. CONTI à itiity) supported the draft recommen-  dation, and expressed his satisfaction that an aftempl  was being made to overcome the difficulties often.  encountered by archaeologists when carrying out ex-  cavations in foreign countries, stressing the importance  of providing for the organization of excavations by Inter-  national archaeological expeditions. Although récom-  mendations embodying regulations were not international  agreements, they were morally binding on Member  States, which would have to bring their domestic regu-  lations into line with them.
(27) Mr. RAADI (Iran) felt that ‘the draft recommendation  relating to item 8.4.3 of the agenda represented the  first step towards an international agreement on ar-  chaeological excavations. Although the recommenda-  tion carried no legal obligation, Iran would bring its  regulations into line with its provisions.
(28) . Mr. 'ZEISSL (Austria) thought it would be unwise  for the Commission to suggest any drafting changes.  to a document which had clearly been the object of  a most careful scrutiny:  He expressed some doubts on two ‘points in the draft  recommendation,: He was not clear whether paragraph
21 could be taken to mean that the entire cost of ex-  cavations might rest with the excavator; that would  not, in his view, be entirely fair. He would, more-  over, be glad to know whether the suggestions made   PROGRAMME  by the Austrian delegation, particularly in respect of  paragraph 9 (ss contained in document CUA/88/Add, 1  Amex H had been taken into account,
(9) Mr, SABA Legal Adviser), replying to the re-  marks made by representative of Afghanistan,  said that the recommendation relating to {tem 6.4.3  was more general than that on regulations for inter-  national competitions in architecture and town-  planning, which had standard regulations annexed to  ‘it. The International Committee on Monuments, ‘set  up ini 1981, could certainly study liter developments  in connexion with the question of archaeological exca-  vations,  Referring to the question’ ‘raised by thie Austrian  delegate, in connexion with paragraph 21 ‘ot: Annex 1  to document 9C/PRG/7, Mr, Saba said that the Sec--  retariat could not interpret the text adopted by thé Com-  mittee of Experts, but that, in his opinion, ‘the French  text was clearer on the point. So far as paragraph 9  of the same document was concerned, the Committee  of Experts that had drawn it up had felt that the ques-  tion required detailed study and that it was preferable  to keep to more general principles in the resolution.
(30) The CHAIRMAN then put to the vote the draft  recommendation on international principles applicable  to archaeological excavations, together with the  amendments proposed by the Working Party.
(31) The draft recommendation, as amended, was  adopted by 46 votes to 1, with 11 abstentions.
(32) The draft recommendation to Member States on  regulations for international competitions in archi-  tecture and town planning, as amended by the Working  Party, were then adopted by 52 votes to none, with
8 abstentions.  _ (85) The CHAIRMAN then put to the vote the draft  resolutions contained in section 4.3 of document 9C/5.
(34) Resolution 4, 31, as amended by the Legal  Adviser, was adopted, with 10 abstentions.
(35) Resolution 4.32 was adopted, with 5 abstentions.
(3) Mr. AWAD MOHAMMED (Egypt) recalled that  his delegation had submitted a draft resolution on the  protection of cultural property in the Middle East  {document 9C/DR/82).
(37) ‘The CHAIRMAN said that the General Committee  had, at its sixth meeting, decided to transmit the  draft resolution to the plenary meeting of the General  Conference.
4,4 Unesco Library and Reference Service  (paragraphs 85 to 91)
(98) ‘The section was approyed without comment,
4.5 Preservation of the cultural heritage of mankind .  (paragraphs 92 to 110 and documents 8C/PRG/10,  $C/DR/72 and 9C/DR/128)   (39) The CHAIRMAN called attention to the two draft
309  COMMISSION  _ ment!s offer (42 EX/Decisions, 8  IV-i8  resolutions contained iri‘section 4, 6 nd {o dochirient
9C/PRG/10; relating to the Intérraticnal Centre for  the Study of he Preservation and Restoration of‘  Cultural Pre © Déaft'résolutions'Had been sub-  mitted by th pote of France and Austria  (document 90/DR/128) arid by the Indian delegation  (document 9C/DR/72), the latter to be considered at  a later stage in the Commission's ‘work,  She’inyited  the representative of the Executive Board to comment  on the item.
(40) Mgr MAROUN' (Lelbindn) (Representative of the  Executive Board) sald that the question of thé site of  the International Centre for the Study of the Presérva-  tion and Restoration of Cultural Property had been dis-  cussed by the Executive Board at its" 42nd session,  when it had béen decided to accept the Italian Govern-  Te 1), ’
(41) Mr, ‘SABA (Cogat Adviser), replying’ to a ‘copiment  by the United States representative, drew attention to  Article 3 of the Centre's Statutes, which would enable  public institutions of States which were not Members of  Unesco, and private scientific or “cultural Institutions,  to become Associate Members of the Centre. The  article might also apply tô public institutions of Asso-  ciate Members of Unesco.
(42) Mr. CONTI (tialy) explained that’ the diftémen  had not wished to make jt possible for, ‘public Institutions  of Member States of Unesco to become Associate  Members of the Centre, as it was in the Centre's interest  for the greatest possible number of Sates to accede’  to it. They had therefore offered the possibility of  becoming Associate Members to public institutions of  ‘non-Member States only, which would pay a far smaller  subscription’ than was asked of Member, States; the  latter amounted lo 1.per cent of their annual contribu-  tion to Unescots budget. _ The Organization was pro-  viding tor a budget of $12, 000 for the first four ycars  of the Cenfre's existence, and it was hoped that it would  then become ‘financially independent. .  On the question of accession by Associate Members  of Unesco, the italian delegation was prepared to sug-  gest the following ‘amendment to Article 3;  "Aesoclate Members  .  The following shall be eligible for Associate Member-  ship of the Centre:  (a) public institutions, ot ‘Associate Member States  or of States which are not Members of Unesco;  (b) private 'scientifio or cultural institutions.  Admission to, Associate Membership shall be by  decision of the Council of the Centre, taken by a two-  thirds majority, on the recommendation of the  Execut ive Board of Unesco."
(43) Mr. KEMENOV. {Unton ot Soviet socialist Repub-  lics) considered the sum set for. Member. States!  financial contribution to the operation of the Centre .  excessive (document 9C/PRG/10, Annex 1, Article 12,  first paragraph). -So large a budget was unnecessary  at the beginning, and thought could be given ‘to it later,  when the activities of the Centre had been clearly .  defined.
(44) Mr. "SABA (Legal Adviser) reminded the Com- .  missiôn that the Statutes would come Into force when   IV-18  five States had become Members of the Centre,. and  pointed out that the financiai provisions were, tran-  sitional, being designed to enable the Centre to carry  out a minimum of work for a maximum erjod of 18  months, after which the General Assembly of the Centr  would determine the amount of contributions. ’
(45) Mr, RAADI (Tran). said that he would vote for the  adoption of document 8C/PRG/10. He pointed out -  that the problem of preserving and restoring cultural  property was chiefly encountered in those countries  that possessed a rich cultural heritage but were short  of technical equipment,  He recalled that the Belgian Government had also  offered to help | in establishing the Centre at one of its  national ‘institutions, and expressed the hope that there  would be close co-operation between the Centre and  the Belgian institutions concerned,
(46) Mr, KIRPAL (Acting Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) was grateful for the Iranian dele-  gate's remarks, He could be sure that those conside-  rations would be borne in mind in Unesco's co-opera-  tion with the Centre,
(47) Mr. KÉMENOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) proposed that it be stated that the rate of  contributions would be fixed by the first General  Assembly of the Centre, If that amendment were not  possible he asked that mention be made of his remarks  in the report of the Programme Commission. |
(48) Mr, SABA. (Légal Adviser) pointéd ‘out that  Article 6 of the Statutes’ provided that the contributions  of Members should be fixed by the Gepéral Assembly  of the Centre oh the basis of the scale of contributions  for the Member States of Unesco, and ‘thai it could  take into gonsideration any suggestions; * The Com-  mission's report might state that "while it récogriized  that the figure at present fixed is mérely provisional,  the Commission hopes that the Genorat Assembly will  reach a decision on this point without delay",  Mr. Saba pointed out that, in Articlé 4 of the English  text, the word “comprise” should be substituted for  "compromise".  Referring to the draft agreement with thé‘ Italian  Government concerning the establishñént and tegal  status of the Centre (document 9C/PRG/10, ‘Annex 1m,  he proposed the following draft resotutiont ~~  "The General Conference approves the draft agree- |  ment between'the Government of the Italian Republic  and the Unitéd Nations Educational, Scientific and  Cultural Organisation govérning the establishment  and legal status of the "International Centré for the  Study of thé Preservation and Restorätion of Cultural  Property' on Italian territory and thé co-operation of  this institution with the competent Italian institutions  and authorities, and authorizes the Director-General  to conclude the said agreement with the Italian Govern-  ment,
(49) The CHAIRMAN understood that the delegate of  the Soviet Union would not press for a vote on his  amendment,
(60) She then put to the vote document 8C/PRG/10,   containing the draft resolution in Annex I, as amended.  PROGRAMME COMMISSION
(51) Document f-7/PRG/10 was adopted, by 55 votes  to none, with 7 abstentions,
(53) The CHAIRMAN invited comment on the draft  resolution, submitied jointly by the delegations of .,  France and Austria, on anthropological and ethnological  studies of groups whose culture and language were  threatened with change, disintegration or extinction  (document 6C/DR/128),
(53) Mr, BERG (Netherlands) said that, from a purely  scientific point of view, he would welcome the idea of  the draft resolution under consideration, However, -  other considerations were often involved, Sometimes  languages were abandoned in the interests of joi  a larger linguistic community or for political reasons;  it might have been a voluntary process. He would  therefore welcome the deletion of the term "threatened"  in the draft resolution,  The funds proposed did not appear to him excessive,  It was important to select judiciously which linguistic  entities it was desirable to study; he suggested those  which tended towards unification, which constituted a  major current trend,
(54) Mr. NEBESKY-WOJKOWITZ (Austria) was quite  prepared to accept the drafting point regarding the use  of the term "threatened",  He emphasized that the proposal ‘had been made for  entirely statariy purposes and with d view to record-  rapidly,  lution ul be greatly facilitated = encouragement  from Unesco; irideed, he would say that so far Unesco  had not supported that field sufficiently. Speaking as  an anthropologist, he consideréd that, due to graye  past errors, a large number, of languages and cultures  had élready disappeared without being sufficiently  documented. He hoped that Unesco would not perpetuate  those errors by : not heeding the appeal, .  He referred to the work of the International Coniinittee  of Anthropôlogicél and Ethhological Sciences, consisting  of 21 well-known scholars, Formerly co-ordination  among scholars in research work was often lacking  one of the tasks of that body was to be co-ordination,  To fulfil that task, however, funds would be needed.  The requirements could be met in connexion with reso-  lution 4.12 of the programme and budget.
(65) Mr, SOMMERFELT (Norway) warmly supported  the draft résolution. The project was a most [mpor-  tant one, particularly as not orily languages but whole  cultures were in process of disappearing. Every day  valuable material was being lost, and Unesco should’  not overlook the fact that the study of the development  of mankind was one of its main tasks, ;
(56) Mr. RAADI (Iran) thought it correct to say hat  certain languagés ahd cultures wére thréatened:" While  it was obvious that every nation had to make itself ‘  familiar with a world language in order to keep in  touch with world developrients, it had, at'the samé”  time, to see that its own language and culture were  preserved, Otherwise, there was a danger that the  exclusive propagation of a foreign language, even à  world language, -in a country, and more especially  among the educated classes, would result in the   PROGRAMME COMMISSION ) IV-18  latter's becoming estranged from their own culture  - end thus create a gulf between them and other sections  of soclety In the country.
(57) Mr. KENANI (Tunista)’ also agreed that the term  "threatened" was correct, He would like a proposal  for constructive steps to be added to the draft resolu-  tion, and therefore suggested that the end of paragraph
1 of document 9C/DR/128 be amended to read as  follows: "to assist such research, and to seek means  of halting such disintegration or extinction where  desirable",
(58) Mr, KIRPAL (Acting Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) agreed that {he subject of the draft  resolution was of the utmost importance, . The pro-  blem had also been studied in conjunction with the  Department of Soclal Sciences, Commenting on the  financial provision contained In the final paragraph of  the draft resolution, hé suggested that the figures be  reduced, in view of the financial resources available,  to à tolal of $5, 000; that would enable the Director-  General to propose’a work plan which would be carried  out by means of a contract with the International  Council for Philosophy and Humanistié Studies, He  recälled that a similar procedure had, in the past,  been followed by the Organization in respect of the  preservation of mediaeval manuscripts.
(58) Mr, HOPE (United States’ of America) said that,  whila his delegation was strongly in favour of the con-  tent of the draft resolution, it would, in order to be  consistent with the position’ he had “stated earlier at  the meeting, be obliged to oppose it, Moreover, as  the resolution referred to in the fifth considerandum  had been adopted only in September 1956, hé would  recommend, in order to allow time for a full study of  the question, that the proposal be referred to the  Director-General for study with the parties concerned,  and that he be requested to report thereon to the  General Conference in 1958, ;
(60) Mr. NEBESKY- WOJKOWITZ (Austria) said that  both the French and his own delegations were prepared  to aécept the réduction in the financial implications  “ proposed by the Acting Director of the Department of  Cultural Activities,  -{61) Mr. SIH (China) supported thè draft resolution  proposed by the delegations of France and Austria,  His delegation, however, felt very strongly that the  . attention bf the recipient’ organizations should bedrawn  to the rieed for giving adequate study to thé Oriental’  countries, where threats of extinction to both culture  and language had been éxperienced to a much graver  degrée than in any other part of the world, That was  particularly true of his own country, whose cultural  tradition and language had an extremely close  relationship with the preservation of human heritages  as a whole,
(62) Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) supported the attitude  of the United States delegate, and einphasized the need  for adequate preparation. In particular, the financial  implications could have been more closely studied, as  was shown by the fact that the Acting Director of the  Department had reduced the estimate,
401     He shared the United States delegate's objection  that the Programme Commission was devoting an in-  sufficient portion of its meetings to considering in  thorough detail the Director- General's programme;  which had been the subject of exhaustive study by the  National Commissions. His own delegation could have  made new proposals but had purposely rofrained from  doing so, In the light of those considerations, he hoped  that the French and Austrian delegations would amend  their proposal so as merely to request the Director-  General to submit proposals for future work in that field,  after consultation with the Executive Board, within the  limitations of the Organization's resources.
(63) The CHAIRMAN felt that, as the resolution would  be in the form of & request to the Secretariat to under-  take certain work and would not be in the nature of a  General Conference resolution, there was no need to be  concerned unduly with the actual wording of the text.
(64) Mr. KEMENOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics)  felt that the first part of the resolution required some  additions, As it stood, it gave the impression that Unesco  was trying to crystallize the languages and cultures of  entire peoples, which were in process of dying out.  Some aspects of modernization and technical devetop-  ment, however, though altering the lives of peoples,  were not of a sort that it was desirable to oppose, He  would prefer that the Commission should, for the  moment, vote only on the second part of the resolution  and recommend the redrafting of the first part in an  improved form.
(65) Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Director- -General) agreed  that there were two aspects to the problem: the an-  thropological and ethnographical research to be under-  taken, and the wider problem of changing cultures.  He pointed out that the lattér item appeared in the  Unesco programme under the heading "Present sta  of traditional cultures in South East Asia" (document
9c/s, 4.6, paragraphs 121 and 122).
(66) Mr. NEBESKY-WOJKOWITZ (Austria) wished,  in view of the remarks made by the delegates of Tunisia  and of the Soviet Union, to explain that the joint draft  resolution had purely scholarly objectives and was by  no means attémpting to favour the fossilization of  certain cultures. It ‘was essential to study those cul-  tures before they vanished, even if they were making  way for something better. In view of the urgency of  the matter, action should not be delayed,
(87) The CHAIRMAN felt that the joint draft resolution  had been sufficiently discussed and put to the vote the  resolutions in section 4.5 of document 9C/5.
(68) Resolution 4.51 was adopted with 3 abstentions.
(69) Resolution 4.52 was adopted with 5 abstentions.
(70) Mr. NEBESKY-WOJKOWITZ (Austria) proposed  that the vote on thé joint draft resolution be taken in  two parts; first; ôn the moral support of Uneséo for  anthropological and ethnological work, and, secondly,  on the financial implications of the proposal.
(71) Mr. KIRPAL (Acting Director, Department of   IV-18  Cultural Activities) made it cledr that, unless’ addi-  tional funds’ were voted for that purpose; the Director-  General would not be in a position to prepare any sub-  stantial work plan,” which would possibly entail the  se-vices of a pari-{ime assistant in preparing such a  ‘programme of detailed research,’ However, without  any such additional funds, the Director-General  could undertake to contact the bodies concerned and  inform them of the proposed studies,
(72) The proposal that Unesco should give its moral  support to anthropological and ethnological studies  was adopted, with one abstention, '
(78) Mr, KEMENOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-  les) considered the question urgent and thought that  an immediate vote should be taken on the Secretariat's  proposal to allocate a-sum of $5, 000 to the project.
(74) The proposal to allocate $5,000 for anthropologi-  cal and ethnological studies was adopted by 37 votes  to 10, with 18 abstentions.
4.6 Culture and Community Development (para-  graphs 111 to 176 and documents 9C/DR/56, 73)
(75) Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General)  pointed out that project 4,641, "Reading material for  new literates", was an interdepartmiental one. More-  over, paragraph 162 referred to'thé Education chapter  (paragraphs 147 and 148) and the Exchange of Persons  chapter (paragraphs 80 and 81), As, in addition,  document 9C/5 Corrigendum 4 also contained pro-  posals relevant to the probiem, it would be better for  the Commission to postpoae its final decision on the  project until it had discussed both the latter document  and the chapter on Education,
(76) The CHAIRMAN believed that the Commission  would wisk to follow that procedure, She suggested  that a general discussion might first be held and then  that a decision be taken on each draft resolution in  turn.
(17) Miss ALEGRIA (Mexico) référred to paragraphs
166 and 167 of project 4,851, “Pevelopment of |  libraries, museums and related services, dealing  with microfilm services, and to paragraph 236, deal-  ing with manuscripts relating to the history of Latin  America to be found in'Europé, and asked when it .  would be appropriate for-her to speak on that topic.  She read out paragraph 236, which referred to the  provision for Unesco to participate in Member States’  activities in the microfilming of documents, She.  pointed out, however, that the reference was to the
1955-1956 programme and that no provision was made  for the continuation of the activities undertaken by a  team working in Mexico, .which included a Mexican  and a Chilean speclalisf, She considered that type of  " work to be of the highest importance and believed that  it should be extended if support could be obtained. She  therefore - proposed the transfer of $16,000, out of  the sum allocated to microfilm services, to the ac-  tivities connected with paragraph 236.
(18) The CHAIRMAN recalled that document 9C/DR/118  contained a draft resolution submitted by the Mexican
402     PROGRAMME COMMISSION  delegation on the point just raised. That resolut} "|  had not been deeinéd receivable by the General Com:  mittes, and the question was whether such a proposal  could be made from the floor, She would ask the  Director of the Department to bear the proposal in  mind. I
(19) Mr, BOURGEOIS (Switzerland) assumed that the  sums mentioned in paragraph 167 covered the whole  of section C and not only sub-paragraph (v).
(80) Mr, KIRPAL (Acting Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) confirmed that the figures given  under paragraph 167 related to paragraphs 162 to 166,
(81) Mr, ESTABLE (Uruguay) reférred to'draft reso-  lution 4,61, which invited Member States td co-operate  in programmes whose purpose was to raise the cultural  level of community life, and asked that that resolution  be taken into consideration, He atiributed great impor-  tance to the education of he common people and said  that the working day should include à period for éduca-  tional and cultural activities, As an example, the’  working day might be divided into six hours of work  and two hours of cultural raining, although he would  have no objection to any Gther arrangement which would  achieve the samé end, In his opinion, it was necessary  to introduce such a system to avold reducing workers  to a state of unthinking apathy.  He elso submitted a recommendation that children  of school age and adolescents who, for legitimate |  reasons, could not attend educational establishments  regularly, be provided with educational facilities.
(82) The CHAIRMAN said that those proposals were  most interesting but, as the delegation of Uruguay had  submitted no draft resolutions in that connexion, they  would have to be deferred until the following session  of the General Conference,
(83) Miss ALEGRIA (Mexico) clarified the proposal  she had previously outlined, asking that support be  given for continuing the investigations concerning  manuscripts relating to the history of Latin America,  and that the appropriate transfer of funds for the purpose  be made,
(84) Mr. JORDANA DE POZAS (Spain) seconded the  Mexican delegate's proposal in its final form, i.e.  that Unesco continue to lend its support to research  on the history of Latin America, which he considered  one of the most important tasks to be done, He men-  tioned that a great deal of work on the subject was be-  ing done at the "Archivo de Simancas", and the -  "Archivo de Indias" in Seville, - He thought that, if  there was sufficient goodwill, it would be possible, even  if difficult, to find the necessary funds for the work, '
(85) Mr, KIRPAL (Acting Director, Department of  Cultural Activities), replying to a point raised by  Mr. BEEBY (New Zealand) as to the appropriate junc-  ture.at which to discuss project 4,641 - reading material  for new literates - said that it was important that thet  project should be considered within the framework of  . cultural activities as well as in connexion with educa-  tion; that would give a more balanced picture of Unesco's  work,   PROGRAMME CONMISSION  on the Mexican proposal, hé said (het .  it would be extremely difficult to find a sum in the re-  ‘gion of $16,000 from the totals listed in paragraph 167,  The question of manuscripts relating to he history of  Latin America was a separate problem and would there-  fore require separate funds,
(06) Mr. KUYPERS (Belgium) hoped that the volume  on the place of classical and humanistic culture in the  cultural life of contemporary communities and the  rôle of classical studies in education would be pub- -  . Mabed in 1987, and stated that the Belgian Government  was drafting à Bill on classical studies,
(87) Mr, THOMAS (Assistant Director-General)  pointed out that, although he had suggested postponing  consideration of the budget for project 4. 641 (paragraph
183), the cultural aspects of the project (paragraphs
138 to 151 and 183) should be examined immediately,  aa its educational features would be examined under  the Education chapter,
(88) The CHAIRMAN said that voting on the question  would be postponed until after the completion of the  section on education. However, the Commission was  free to continue its discussion within the present  context if it wished to do so,
(89) Mr. OITTINEN (Finland) introduced the draft  resolution: : subrnitted jointly by the Norwegian, the  Yugoslav and his own delegations, on the miinténance  and adaptation of traditional cultures (document
9C/DR/56), which proposed the setting up . of a  "Theatre Faculty of Asia”, He was convinced that the  thèètre could do much {0 strengthen cultural values,  particularly on the international level, ‘as it offered  possibilities for a frée expression of the different  cultural spheres. The plan, which had been drawn up  by the First World Theatre Conference held recently,  called for more detailed examination and also some  financial co-operat He expressed the sincere hope  that Unesco would give its support to the project within  the framework of the major project on mutual apprecia-  tion of Eastern and Western cultural values.
(99) Mr. HOPE (United States of América) suggested  that that’ proposal and the draft resolution presented  by Indid on a centre for dramatic art in Asia (document
9C/DR/73) might more appropriately be discussed in  confunction with the consideration of that major  project. .
(91) Mr, ANAS (Afghanistan) was most interested in  the item relating to literature for new literates. He  wondered what proportion of it could be ascribed to
403     “IV-18  ‘cultural activities, since the item also figured under  fundamental education,
(93) Mrs. MEHTA (India) thought it Important to em-  phasize the cultural aspect of literature for new  Uterates, as well as tie edueational side, Indeed, it  Was essential that only the beat literature should be  slven to the new literates; material should be well-  planned, interssting and uplifting: It should bring  Unesco's aims to the readers' notice and should attempt  to foster a spirit of brotherhood,
(83) Mr, SIDDIQUI (Pakistan) said that the cultural  projecta to raise the general level of the population  were extremely valuable, The main aim of Unesco's  work in that field should be to co-operate with, and  further the aims of, the national agencies operating in  that sphere,  It was essential not to suppose that the illiterate were  necessarily devoid of any cultural heritage, In India  und Pakistan, for instance, there was a great oral  Hterary tradition as well as highly-deyeloped culture  in music and handicrafts. Those planning cultural  development needed great vision in order to guide read-  ing taste for the new literatss, In that connexion, he  pointéd to the dearth of suitable reading material for  adolescent new literates.
(94) Mr. KEMENOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics)  stressed the importance of the resolution submitted  jointly by Finland, Norway and Yugoslavia,” He also  supported the Indian proposal for the establishment of  a Centre for dramatic art in Asia and hoped that the two  propcsals would be discussed forthwith,
(85) Mr. RUDRA RAJ PANDE (Nepal) associated him-  self with the views expressed by the delegates of India  and Pakistan, Buddhism had a very great cultural  heritage,
(96) Mi, KIRPAL (Acting Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) said that Major Project 4A con-  tained no item relating to the theatre, and that it would  accordingly not be possible to find funds within that pro-  ject. The two draft resolutions relating to the theatre  could be considered together,
(97) ‘The CHAIRMAN explained that the draft resolu-  tions could be approved in substance as a general re-  commendation to the Director-General for future ac-  tivities, and could be considered in the context of the  section under discussion,  The meeting rose at 1,15 p.m,