I1-22 ‘  TWENTY- SECOND PLENARY" MEETING.  ‘ 5 December 1856, at 11, 16 a, m,  President: Mr, vou TRUTZSCHLER (Federal Republic of Germany)  CONTENTS  Consideration and adoption of the report of the Administra-  tive Commission . . . . . .  CONRDERATION AND ADOPTION OF THE REPORT  OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE COMMMEMON  m The PRESIDENT: - The agenda of the meeting is  published in the "Spurnal" but 1 would like to announce  two additional items, ;  First of all, there is the draft resolution contained  in document eC/DR/ 140, which t think has been dis-  tributed, Actually the draft resolution proposed an  smendment to resolution XVII of the Administrative  Commission, introduced by Canada and the United  States of America. It may be discussed in connexion  with Section D of the Report of the Administrative  Commission. --  Further on we will have the Joint Report of the meet -  ing of the Proytamme and Administrative Commissions,  which will be distributed in the course of the day - the  document number is 9C/30. .. .  We will now begin our agenda with document 9C/24-  Report of the Administrative Commission, and 1 would  like to ask the Chairman of this Commission to intro-  duce his Report. - . ,  @ Mr, DAVIES (Auitiatie)’ (Chairman of the Admini-  strativs Commission); ..Mr. Président, fn the un-..  avoidable absence of the Rapporteur ;. ir: Mr. Baugniet. of  Belgium, I have ‘the duty. and t “ of presenting  to the General Contérence, the Report ‘ot the Adininis-  trative Commission in dogiiment 90/24. . 1éome to  the plenary, meeting spmewhat in-p pered for this  task and must beg your’ indulgence.
1 4e not may, intention | to read out the Report, ‘which  is à very long one, and which has béeñ in the hands  A Jelegations at any Tate since early {his morning. :  Report contains sections dealing with financial -  questions, social security ‘questions, ‘questions rela-.  ting to the permanent Héadguarters, staft questions,  official and external relations and legal questions.  Mr; President, 1 would like formally to move the  adoption, of the Administrative. Commission's Report.  I imaginé that you will . wish to take up the Report  section by section, and, if that’ is your wish, 1 shall  bé glad if I may make one or.fwo explanatory remarks  before each section is opened for discussion. .  . The first section, then, is Financial Questions. The            «0a. 239  Commission- ‘accepted the. accounts’ “présented foi the  year 1854-1955, itôgethér with the ‘Auditors’ Report  covering that period. It received the audited accounts  for the Technical Assistarice programme’ for the périod  ended 31 Décémber 1955; and recommerided that the  Director- General be authorized to transmiit them to  the Secretary:Genefal of the United Nations. ‘ The  relevant resolutions here are I and II, On the ques-  tion of contributions, thé Commission récommended -  the adoption of ‘a resolution similar to that taken by  the General Conferunce at its eighth session," It- ~  drew attention tô the necessity that Member States pay  their contributions promptly; and decided that, whereas  the arrears of contributions for Czechoslovakia, . Poland  and Hungary should continue to be settled by annual  payménis, as was decided at the eighth séssion, it  could no longer recommend that part of these arrears  be paid in local currendy. The relevant resolutions  here, Mr. President, are II, IV and V.-  The Commission's: recommendations on the use of  the Working Capital Fund include the following pro-  visions: «maintenance of the Fund at $3, 600, 000;  autho.ity for, the Director-General to use the Fund,  firstly, for the: linancing of activities for thie mainten-  ance of peace and security, at tae request of the  United Nations,‘ secondly, for. salary. ‘adjustments,  thirdly, for compensation awards decided by the Ad--  ministrative Tribunal of the International Labour  Organisation, provided that payments for all these  three purposes should not exceed $800, 000 for the  two-year period. . The Commission also recommended  that the Director-General be given authority to use‘  the Working Capital Fund for financing increased costs  in the construction of the new Headquarters building,  up to a maximum of $500,000, and for self-liquidating  expenditures and activities up to a maximum of  $150, 000. 1 draw your attention here to resolution  The. Commission was asked. to examine Parts 1.  mt and 1V of the Director-General's budget estimates,  and discussed at length the proposed creation of à :  Bureau of Relations with Member States, in Part LI,  Chapter 6. It decided to recommend adoption of tHe -  Report of its Working Party on this question, on the -  understanding that thé Director-General should report
11-22 - PLENARY MEETINGS  _ to the Executive Board on the functioning of this Bureau,  The Commission also recommends that a ceiling should  be fixed in the Appropriation Resolution for the total  number of posts created within the Secretariat durihg  the financial period 1957-1958, and that the Director-  General be authorized, it consultation with the Execu-  tive Board, to have a management survey or surveys  undertaken by independent experts during the coming  two-year period and to report thereon to the General  Conference at its tenth session, This last point is  referred to in resolution VII,
1 think this covers the financial questions, Mr.  President. You might like to study them before we  move on to the social security items.
(3) The PRESIDENT: I thank the Chairman of the  Administrative Commission for presenting the first  part of his Report. If the Conference is agreeable,  we could follow the suggestion made by the Chairman  of the Administrs tive Commission and go through the  Report chapter by chapter. Is that acceptable? It  seems to be.  I think we will have to begin with the introductory  remarks on pages 1 and 2 of the English text, para-  graphs 1 to 11, Any remarks? No.  We now come to Section A - Financial Questions -  on page 3. We begin with resolution I - Financial  Reports. Any remarks?  I call upon the delegate of the Ukraine.
(4) Mr, KOVAL (Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic)  (Translation from the Russian): Mr, President and  fellow delegates, the delegation of the Ukrainian Soviet  Socialist Republic thinks that draft resolution number  IV, contained in the Administrative Commission's
1sport (document 9C/24), docs not accurately reflect  th existing situation as regards the collection of  Member States! contributions. We cannot accept the  optimistic statement which appears in its first para-  graph, namely "... that the situation regarding the  collection of contributions has greatly improved ...",  because, in our view, it does not correspond to the  facts, .  Everyone knows that the Kuomintang group has not  paid its contributions for several years; the total  now amounts to millions of dollars and the so-called  "token contribution" of the Kuomintang group to  Unesco's budget can in no way repair this enormous  gap in the Organization's financial resources.  Moreover, as certain delegations have already pointed  out in the discussions in plenary meeting, the grant of  the right to vote to the Kuomintang group, in spite of  its huge arrears, amounts in fact to encoursging it  not to pay. in the future, Accordingly, we think that  the words "the situation regarding the collection of  contributions has greatly improved" should be deleted.  The resélution would then reflect the true situation re-  garding the collection of Member States! contributions.
(5) The PRESIDENT: I think we should discuss this  matter when we come to rasolution IV. I would pro-  pose dealing with the Report paragraph by paragraph,  in order to have clarity. If that is agreeable, I would  like to ask again whether theré are any remarks or  objections to paragraph I on page 3? Adopted, in-  cluding resolution I.-  We then come to paragraph A.JI, with resolution !I,
240  concerning the accounts in respect of Technical  Assistance. Are there any remarks on this? It  not, section Il, including resolution II, is adopted,  We then come to A, III, Contributions of Member  States, resolution III, on pages 4 and 5 of the English  text. Are there any remarks on this sub-section?  It not, it is adopted.  Then we go back to resolution IV on page 6, You  have heard the remarks of the Ukrainian delegate  which affect this point, If I understood the delegate  of the Ukrainian Republic correctly, he proposes to  delete from the first paragraph of the resolution the  words "the situation regarding the collection of con-  tributions has greatly improved", Is thut supported?  Supported, I put this proposal to the vote. Will  those who are in favour please raise their hands?  Will those against this proposal please raise their  hands? Abstentions?  The proposal to delete these words has been rejected.  Delegations in favour, 8; 28 against and 10 abstentions,  We now vote on the resolution in its original form,  page 6. Will those in favour of the resolution, please  raise thelr hands? Against? Abstentions?  The resolution is adopted, with 38 votes in favour,
1 against, and 6 abstentions.  We now come to Section A. IV, including resolution  V, on pages Tto9. Any remarks? Noreniarks,  Then I regard this Section, including resolution V,  as adopted.  We now diecuss Section A, V - the right to vote of  China. Any remarks on this? This paragraph is  adopted.  We come now to À. VI - Administration of the Work-  ing Capital Fund, with resolution VI, on pages 9 to 11.  Any remarks ? It is adopted.  Paragraph A, VII - Amendments to the Financial  Regulations? Adopted.  A. VIII, Budget Estimates for 1957-1958 (Parts,
1, 1II and IV), including resolution VII. Any remarks?  I call upon the delegate of the Soviet Union.
(6) Mr. GOLUNSKY (Union of Soviet Socialist Re-  publics) (Translation from the Russian)! Mr. Presl-  dent and fellow delegates, the delegation of the Soviet  Union voted for the approval of the first four chapters  of Part II of the programme und budget although it  believed, and still believes, that an allocation of  $32, 200 for supplementary established posts is ün-  justified, This does not mean that we consider  these particular posts unnecessary. But the funds  required ought to be found by means of suitable re-  adjustments among the thousand-odd people in the  Secretariat without further increasing the number of  established headquarters posts and, consequently, the  total administrative costs, The percentage of Unesco!  administrative costs is growing from year to year and  the planned increase in these costs for the forthcoming  budgetary period is such that in the 1957-1958 bud- .  getary period they will account for over 60 per cent  of the entire budget. Such a situation is completely  unacceptable, ' The question has been discussed at  the meetings of the Administrative Commission and  we believe that it should be noted in the report.
(7) The PRESIDENT: Are there any otbér remarks  on the point made by the delegate of the Union of  Soviet Socialiet Republics ?   PLENARY MEETINGS  We will have a vote, then, on resolution VII. Will  those in favour of resolution VII, page 12, please  raise their hunds? Against? Abstentions? The  resolution 1s adopted, with 52 votes in favour; none  against and 1 abstention.  We have now concluded Section A of the Report and  I would like to ask the Chairman of the Administrative  Commission to introduce Section B: Social Security  Questions,
(8) Mr. DAVIES (Australia) (Chairman of the Ad-  ministrative Commission): Mr, President, the Ad-  ministrative Commission recommends that the Statutes  ot the Medical B enefits Fund be modified to the effect  that, as from 1 January 1857, the administrative ex-  penses involved in operating the Fund be financed by  revenue from the Fund, it was decided that the amount  of such expenses would be fixed at $10, 000 yearly,  provided that the payment of this amount would not  reduce the amount of the reserve of the Fund as it  stood on 31 December 1956, This is resolution VIII,  With regard to the Staff Compensation Fund account,  the Commission recommends maintenance of the account  for 1957-1958, and, in addition, that insurance pre-  miums be henceforth charged to the Fund. This is  resolution IX.  In connexion with the United Nations Joint Staff Pen-  sion Fund, the Commission took note of the Annual  Report of the Joint Board for the year 1954 and recom-  mended the election of the following Members to the  Unesco Staff Pension Committee for 1957-1958: as  full members: Italy, Japan rind Lebanon; and as alter-  pates; Chile, Federal Republic of Germany and  Turkey. You will find the recommendations of the  Commission set out in resolution X. The Commission  also recommended that, subject to the acceptance by  the present Unitéd Nations General Assembly of the  proposal for the investment of part of the capital of  the Pension Fund in housing loans to staff members -  subject to appropriate guarantees - the Director-  General be euthorizéd to implement similar plans,  with the approval of the Executive Board, and the  necessary guarantée to the United Nations Joint Staff  Pension Fund. This {s resolution XI, and that con-  cludes the recornmendations of the Administrative  Commission on Soclal Security Questions.
(9) The PRESIDENT; I open the discussion on  Section B.1 - Report of the Director-General on the  Medical Benefits Fund, including resolution VIN,  Any remarks on this subject? No remarks. Then  regard this part as adopted, including resolution  We now come to Section B.II - Staff Compensation  Fund, with resolution IX, Any remarks? No  remjrks, Adopted,  Section B, III - Report of the United Nations Joint  Saft Pension Fund, with resolution X. Any remarks?  Mopted.  B.IV - Use of Pension Fund Capital for Housing  Loans to Staff, resolution XI, Any remarks Adopted.  Then we come to Chapter C - Permanent Head-  quarters, and I would ask Mr. Davies again if he  would introduce this part of the Report.
(10) Mr. DAVIES (Australia) (Chairman of the Ad-  ministrative Commission): The Commission approved
1-32  the recoramendation of the Headquarters Committee  to the effect that the Director-General be given  authority to raise the ceiling on thé Headquarters  construction costs to $8,080,000; that represents  an increase of $1,000, 090 over the previous  estimate, It also recommends that the Dirsctor-  General be given authority to negotiate a supplementary  loan with the French authorities on s{inilar conditions  to those of the previous ones,  In addition, the Commission, after lengthy discus-  sion, recommends the construction of a third build-  ing to meet the estimated shortage of office space,  and it suggests that authority be given to the Director -  General to conclude a loan with the French Govern-  ment to an amount not exceeding the equivalent of  $930, 000 to cover the construction costs of that  bufiding.  In view of possible increases in lebour and con-  struction costs which may occur before the termina-  tion of the Headquarters building project, the Coin-  mission recommends that the Director-General be  authorized to use the Working Capital Fund to finance  any such increases in cost up to a maximum amount  of $500, 000, provided that such advances from the  Working Capital Fund be first submitted for the  approval of the Executive Bourd. It also recommends  that the Director-General be authorized to examine,  with the French authorities, the possibility of con--  structing an underground garage on the site of the  new Headquarters Building. The relevant resolutions  in this respect are XII, XIII, XIV and XV, |
(11) The PRESIDENT; I open the discussion nn  Section C, Permanent Headquarters, and Ci -  Financial Status of the Project, resolution XII. Any  remarke? Noremarks. The resolution is adopted.  We now come back to C,II, conéerning the additional  building - resolution XML. Any remarks on this?  The delegate of Canada wishes to speak on  resolution XIII.
(12) Mr. FAIREY (Canada): Mr. President, the delegation  of Canada wishes to register an abatention on resolution  XIII, for reasons which were given quite fully during  the discussion in the Administrative Commission.
(13) The PRESIDENT: We will now vote on resolution  XII, concerning the additional building, Will those in  favour please raise their hands? Against? Abstentions?  The resolution is adopted by 48 votes in favour;
2 against; and 5 abstentions.  We then come toSection C.ILI, with resolution XIV.
1 call upon the delegate of the Byelorussian Soviet  Socialist Republic,
(14) Mr. KISELEV (Byetorussian Soviet Socialist Re-  public) (Translation from the Russian); Mr. Presidant,  fellow delegates, the delegation of the Byélorussian  Soviet Socialist Repubiic will vote for résolution number  XIV (page 18 of the Administrative Cominission's report)  concérning the means of meeting the costs of building  Unesco's new Headquarters, We consider itnecessary,  however, to state that such an uneconomical, wastéful use  of funds on the Headquarters building as the one we are now  witnessing is quite abnormal, We also consider that the  General Conference should heed the criticisms which were  voiced in this connexion in the Administrative Commis-  sion. Weare in favour of the utmost economy.   At the same time, Mr. President, 1 should like to  state our delegation's views on thy report of the  special Working Party on the creation of the new  Bureau of Relations with Member States. Our dele-  gation abstained from voting on that document. Wo  consider the division of functions between the pro-  gramme Departments responsible for the policy of  the Participation and Technical Assistance pro-  grammes, and the new Bureau of Relations with  Member States which is responsible for the actual  implementation of the programmes and for the co-  ordination of the corresponding work, to be unjusti-  fied and in fact ineflective. If we consider that one  of the Assistant Directors-General is to direct the  work of the Bureau, which will, however, report  directly to another Assistant Director-General, the  question arises whether such a diyision of respon-  sibility - which can only complicate and multiply  existing administrative problems - can be beneficial.  We agree entirely with one of the conclusions of  resolution XXI (document 8C/ADM/PROV, §), stating  that Unesco, after ten years of existence, should  undertake a survey with a view to achieving maximum  efficiency, 50 as to be able to allot adequate funds to  its various programme activities.  Our delegation believes that efforts should be made  to secure the wisest possible distribution of respon-  sibilities and work loads in the Secretariat, so as to  bring about a reduction of expenditure and more  efficient use of energies and resources without in-  creasing the numbe.‘ of posts.
(15) The PRESIDENT; First of all, 1 would like to  call the attention of the Conference to the fact that,  in the English text of resolution XIV, paragraph 2(a),  there is an error. It reads "resolutions X and XI"  but it should be X and XiII, That is purely an error  in the numbering.  Does anyone wish to speak on resolution XIV in  section C.III? _ The delegate of the Byelorussian  Soviet Socialist Republic said that he would vote in  favour of the resolution. No remarks? Adopted.  Are there any remarks on C.1V? Adopted.  C.V. The garnge question? Adopted, including  resolution XV.  C. VI - Use and rental of office space, including  resolution XVI. Any remarks? Adopted.  We come now to Section D - Staff Questions. 1  would ask Mr. Davies to introduce his report.
(16) Mr. DAVIES (Australia) (Chairman of the Ad-  ministrative Commission): Section D of the Report  is in two parts, the first dealing with the appointment,  obligations and rights of staff members, and the  second dealing with salaries and allowances. Once  again, the Commission devoted considerable time to  the question of geographical distribution and to ways  and means of assisting the Director-General to im-  prove a situation which I think all believe is still far  from satisfactory. The Commission submits for your  approval a resolution requesting the Director-  General to apply a less rigid quota system in places  where it may bave unduly restrictive implications for  small contributor countries, and to report on the  measures taken and the results achieved to the  General Conference at its tenth session. This is in  resolution XVII, on pages 23 and 24 of document 8C/ 24.
243  PLENARY MEETINGS  The Comrnission algo recommends that you approve  a number of changes in the Staff Regulations, which  are founi in resolution XVII, on pages 25 and 28,  The most important change, and one which gave rise  to considerable discussion, is the addition of a  paragraph to Staff Regulation 8,1.1, It relates to  the composition of the Special Advisory Board and  provides that the Director-General shall communicate  its reports and opinions to the staff members con-  cerned, The General Conference will recall that,  at present, the composition of the Special Advisory  Board is defined in the Staff Rules and it is laid  down there that its proceedings and reports shall be  secret and confidential, If the Genern|;Conferejçé.  adopts the modification proposed in rerolution XVII,  the Special Advisory Board's proceediàgs will still  be secret and confidential, The General Conference  will note that the effective date of the change has to  be inserted in this part of resolution XVIII, as in  paragraph (1), the proposed amendment to Staff  Regulation 11,2, to bring the text up to date, The  other proposed change is in Staff Regulation 3.2 and  is to enable the Director-General to pay any new  allowances approved by the United Nations General  Assembly and the Executive Board as a result of the  United Nations Salary Review Committee's racom-  mendations. ;  Lastly, on page 26, resolution XIX provides for  the extension of the jurisdiction of the International  Labour Organisation's Administrative Tribunal until
1 now come to the second part of the Commission's  report on Staff Questions, dealing with salaries and  allowances for General Service staff on one hand, and  for Professional staff on the other. As far as General  Service staff is concerned the Commission recommends  the adoption of resolution XX, requesting the Director-  General to reduce gradually the existing margin bet-  ween Unesco's salaries and the best prevailing rates  in the Paris area. With regard to Professional  staff, the Commission noted the summary recommen:  dations of the United Nations Salary Review Com-  mittee, and the time-table of the United Nations  General Assembly; and it proposes that the Director-  General be authorized to proceed with changes he  wishes to make, subject to the approval of the Execu-  tive Board, and provided that any changes made be-  fore the next session of the General Conference are  in general conformity with the measures adopted by  the Unfted Nations General Assembly, With regard  to the method of financing possible changes, the  Commission recommends that $200, 000 be written  into the budget for 1057-1953, and the remainder of  the estimated cost, amounting to $361, 000, be found  through savings. It is also recommended that the  Director-General be authorized to use the Working  Capital Fund if, at any given.time, savings are not  sufficient to meet the whole of the cost, The rele-  vant resolution here is No. XXI, on pages 28 and 20.
(17) The PRESIDENT: I thank you very much.  We come now to Section D: Staff Questions - D.!  Recruitment and Appointment of Staff Members, in-  cluding resolution XVII. Any ramarks on this? I  call upon the delegate of Ecuador.
(18) Mr. MARTINEZ COBO (Ecuador) (Translation   PLENARY  from the Spanish); Mr. President, the Spanish text  of this document contains an error in resolution XVII,  which should be corrected. Paragraph 3 (a) still in-  cludes the words "sobre todo" which were deleted  from the original draft submitted by a number of  delegations - including those of Chile, Ecuador,  Greece, Haiti, India, Peru, Spain and the United States  of Americe, Those words were deleted as a result  of an amendment submitted by the Japanese delega-  tion, end discussed and adopted by the Administrative  Commission. As thic mistake affects only the  Spanish text, I would ask that the necessary correction  be made by deleting the words "sobre todo", which  completely alter the meaning of the resolution.
(19) The PRESIDENT; I call upon the delegate of  the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
(20) Mr, KEMENOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Re-  publics) (Translation from the Russian): Mr, Presi-  dent and fellow delegates, the draft resolution on per-  sonnel policy, submitted to us by the Administrative  Commission, is very important. It very rightly indi-  cates that the Director-General should endeavour to  ensure that the staff of the Secretariat is recruited on  an equitable geographical basis, and equally rightly  raises the question of the need for enlisting the ser-  vices of collaborators from various Asian, African and  Latin American countries.  At the same time, the report of the Administrative  Commission states, in paragraph 57 - as though it  were the general opinion - that the Director-General  had made progress in the past two years towards  equitable geographical distribution in the Unesco  * Secretariat,  I do not think we can possibly agree with this op-  timistic conclusion, presented as though it were the  opinion of the Conference as a whole, because the  draft resolution and the Administrative Commission's  report give a very poor picture of the real facts,  namely, that the Director-General, in the past two  years, has done nothing to remedy the absolutely ab-  normal situation as regards equitable geographical  distribution which now exists in the Secretariat - the  kind of distribution the General Conference had in  mind when it adopted its special resolution (V. 2. 42)  at the eighth session at Montevideo.  It is no secret, I believe, that we all consider it  abnormal for the citizens of several Member States -  in particular of Asian, African and Latin American  countries, some Eastern Eruopean countries and  many others - to be either totally unrepresented or  very inadequately represented on the Secretariat.  Special emphasis should also be laid on the fact that  the principle of equitable geographical distribution is  not merely quantitative; so far, citizens of the ma-  jority of the States I mentioned have not been appoin-  ted to leading posts at all, I mean such posts as direc-  tors of departments, heads of divisions, etc, The  majority of those posts are held by citizens of three  countries. On the average, citizens of each of those  three countries occupy 9, 10 or 11 leading posts in  the Secretariat. Such a situation cannot be considered  normal in an important international organization like  Unesco. If the Director-General really intends to  remedy this situation, if he really intends to bring  Unesco’s staffing into line with the requirements of  MEETINGS
243  ‘11-22  tho Organization's international character and to  implement the relevant resolution of the Conference  in Montevideo, he must make every effort to take  advantage of every opportunity, of every staft vacancy,  while of course doing all the necessary preliminary  work such as consulting the Member States and in-  forming them in good time about vacancies, etc.  I think that our Conference should confirm the im-  portance of the decision of the Montevideo Conference  and invite the Director-General to make more active  efforts to implement it. There should therefore be  no reference in the document we are now approving -  that is, in paragraph 57 of the document - to the pro-  gress which has allegedly been made in the past two  years,
(21) The PRESIDENT: I thank the delegate of the  Soviet Union. With regard to what the delegate of  Ecuador said, I think the Chairman of the Adminis-  trative Commission would like to make some remarks,
(22) Mr. DAVIES (Australia) (Chairman of the Ad-  ministrative Commission): Mr. President, I would  like to apologize to the delegate of Ecuador, and to  the Spanish-speaking delegations, for the error which  has crept into the Spanish text, The document, as  you know, was produced very rapidly and it has not  been possible to check it in all four languages. The  delegate of Ecuador is quite right - the words "sobre  todo" should be deleted from the Spanish text.  {23) ‘The PRESIDENT: Any other remarks on this  chapter? I call upon the delegate of India.
(24) Mr. SAIYIDAIN (India): Mr. President, fellow  delegates, I have only one small observation to make  with regard to the resolution as it has been drafted,  but it seems to me that it is slightly ambiguous as  the wording is proposed. It requests the Director-  General to "continue his efforte to improve the stand-  ards of competence and the geographical distribution  of the Secretariat’. I presume that part of the reason  why some of the States which have very small con-  tributions to make cannot be given a greater quota, is  that, purely from the point of view of competence, as  it has been defined here, it may not be possible to  find a sufficient number of fully qualified persons.  Therefore it occurs to me that to talk of the improve-  ment of the standards of competence and the geogra-  phical distribution, simultaneously, does not really  mean very much,  I would therefore suggest that, if the wording were  slightly modified, the idea would become clearer,  and this is what I suggest for your consideration,  feeling generally in agreement with the views exprea-  sed by the delegate of the Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics + "requests the Director-General to con-  tinue his efforts to improve the geographical dis-  tribution of the Secretariat, with due regard to stan-  dards of competence, by applying a less rigid quota  system", Thereby we will ensure that the object of  this resolution {s to provide for a more equitable  distribution of posts in the Secretariat but, in doing  that, we have to take into account that there are cer-  tain reasonable standards of competence which the  Director-General has to bear in mind.
(25) The PRESIDENT: While we are waiting for the  text of the amendment to the draft resolution, does  anyone else wish to speak on this subject? I call  upon the delegate of the United States of America.
(26) Mr, SPILHAUS (United States of America): Mr.  President, I merely came here to make a brief obser-  vation which will help clarify the issue that has been  raised by the delegate of India, by referring you to  Article VI of the Constitution, paragraph 4, where it  says: "The Director-General shall appoint the staff  of the Secretariat in accordance with staff regulations  to be approved by the Generel Conference. Subject  to the paramount consideration of securing the highest  standards of integrity, efficiency and technical com-  petence, appointment to the staff shall be on as wide  a geographical basis as possible, "  It seems to me, Mr. President, that this Article  of the Constitution is clearly reflected in the state-  ment in the document before us and that therefore no  change in the wording is necessary.
(27) The PRESIDENT: The Chairman of the Adminis-  trative Commission.
(28) Mr, DAVIES (Australia) (Chairman of the Ad-  ministrative Commission): I merely wish to express  the hope that the General Conference will find it pos-  sible to vote on the text as submitted by the Adminis-  trative Commission. As I indicated in my preliminary  remarks, this recommendation from the Administra-  tive Commission represents the result of very long  discussions and of a considerablé amount of concilia-  tion on the part of delegations holding widely divergent  views on this budget. My fear would be, Mr. Presi-  dent, that, after having discussed this very fully in-  deed in the Commission, if we depart from the text  recommended by the Commission, we are likely to  get into a very complicated and dificult debate on  the subject before the end of the session.
(29) The PRESIDENT: Does anybody elsé wish to  speak on this point? The delegate of Rumania.
(30) Mr. RALFA (Rumania) Mr. Président, ladies  and gentlemén, on behalf of the Rumanian delegation  I would like to make some brief remarks on the staff  question, and more especially on paragraph 57."  As you know, the Rumanian People's Republié is  participating for the first time at a General Con-  ference of Unésco as a full Member. Having thé’  possibility of contacting a great numbér of delegations  participating in this Conference, we have the impres-  sion that a certain number of governments are fot  satisfied with the geographical dist ribution of staff  members in thé Secretariat. We have the impres-  sion that this discontent is increasing, s0 we feel  there is a certain contradiction between what we have  learnt through diverse contacts with various delega-  tions, and what is expressed in the second sentence  of paragraph 57. Our impression is that a large  number of delegations are not satisfied with the exis-  ting situation or with the steps taken up to now by the  Secretariat and the distinguished leader of our Sec-  retariat, the Director-General, ’  On behalf of the Rumanian delegation, I would pro-  pose to express, in paragraph 57, the desire that  MEETINGS
244  the Director-General should, in future, take more  effective steps to implement the Montevideo resolu-  tion on this matter, and so assure a better geo-  graphical distribution in our Secretariat. ’
(31) The PRESIDENT: Does anybody else wish to  speak on this point? The delegate of El Salvador,
(32) Mr, BARON CASTRO (El Salvador) (Translation  from the Spanish): Mr, President, fellow delegates,  with reference to resolution XVII, paragraph 3 (a),  the delegation of Fi Salvador wishes to record its  entire agreement with the views put forward by the  Chairmen of the Administrative Commission, This  resolution is the outcome of long, careful and persis-  tent discussions of conflicting views, which finally  led to a compromise, Like all compromises, it  was based ôn a minimum of agreement, We did,  however, succeed in reaching this minimum of agree-  . ment, common to us all or, to he more exact, common  to all of us in the Commission; it would therefore pro-  bably be neither useful or advisable to reopen a dis-  cussion which might once more reveal the divergencles  sa evident in the Commission. Obviously we all  agree - I think there can be no doubt whatever about  this - as to the standards of competence of staff  members. It is natural that, wherever they may  come from, a maximum of ability must be required  of any member of the Unesco Secretariat or any  applicant for a post; but, while allowing for this  necessity, we should strive also for the fairest pos-  sible geographical representation. My only wish is,  therefore, to ask the Conference, if it thinks fit, to  adopt the resolution submitted by the Administrative  Commission, which has already discussed it with  due thoroughness.
(33) The PRÉSIDENT; 1 call upon the Director-  General.
(34) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL: Mr. Pr resident, 1  insist that it is true that the problem of the distribu-  tion of the staff on a geographical basis has’ béen- *  considerably amellorated since the Montevideo Con-  ference. Let us take the case of the Soviet Union.  At the time of the Montevideo Conference, thede was  no citizen of the Soviet Union on the staff of Unesco.  Before this Conference assembled there was a P-5,  three P-3's, and three P-2's on the staff. At the  time of the Montevideo Conference there was no  Burmese on the staff, Therenow is. Since the  Montevideo Conference, the situation in regard to  the Federal Republic of Germany has been consider-  ably ameliorated, and during this period we have  appointed staff members from 34 Member States, à  number of which States had previously not been  represented at all 6r were very much under-repres-  ented. Mr, President, detailed facts could be  presented, ahd have been presented to the ‘Adminis-  trative Commission. It was on the basis of them  that the Administrative Commission noted that the  situation hed been improved. ,  The Soviet Union representative said that most  of the staff is drawn from three countries, That is  correct. One of those countries is under-represen-  ted and its representation should be increased if we  are going to have good geographical distribution, and   PLENARY  that country is the United States of America, Iam  trying to increase that representation in appropriate  ways. The va large countries which are grossly  over-represented are the United Kingdom and France,  The representation of those two countries - the sta-  tistics are quite clear on this - has been decreased  since Montevideo, and it is impossible for me to under-  stand how the statement can be made that geographical  distribution has not been improved since the Monte-  video Conference,  I must tell you that I do not fully accept the impli-  cation of the Administrative Commission's Report,  that it is the Director-General alone who should make  itensified efforts to increase geographical distribution.  We are making the maximum effort possible, but the  Member States are not helping us sufficiently and the  only way I could now improve geographical represen-  tation more rapidly than I am doing, unless I have  additional help from Member States in finding can-  didates, would be to ignore the provision of the Con-  stitution that Dr. Spilhaus, just a moment ago, read  to you, concerning competence being the paramount  consideration,  I shall have to insist that competence is the para-  mount consideration, but I appeal to Member Govern-  ments to supply me with more qualified candidates,  No one is more interested than I am in having adequate  geographical distribution, in accordance with the pro-  visfons of the Constitution,
(35) The PRESIDENT: Ladies and gentlemen; 1 would  like to make a brief announcement, - At 12.30, the  President of this Conference will open the Unesco  Travelling Exhibition of reproductions of Persian  Miniatures, in the lobby lounge here, We first thought  of adjourning the meeting, but, in view of the heavy  agenda we have to deal with today, I propose to coë-  tinue, I only make the announcement in cace dele-  gates wish to attend the ceremony.  We continue the discussion on this question of geo-  graphical distribution. Does anybody wish to speak?  [ call upon the delegate of the Soviet Union.
(36) Mr. KEMENOYV (Union of Soviet Socialist Re-  publiés) (Translation from the Russian) Mr. Presi-  dent, ladies and gentlemen, please’ forgive me but I  must speak again, 1 shall be very brief. When this  debate began - a perfectly natural and regular debate -  we looked forward to the Director-General's state-  ment with great interest and attention, hoping to hear  his reactions to the wishes of delegates and to learn  what practical measures he intended to take in the  near future to implement the decisions of the Monte-  video Conference and to meet the wishes of the dele-  gates who had spoken both in the Commission and in  the plénary meeting.  I must say that the Director- General's reply is  anything but encouraging, nor does it leave the Con-  ferénce any hope or any grounds for imagining that  there will be any early change in the geographical dis-  tribution. We have heard the Director-General state  his intention to remedy what he considers to be the  vnder-representation of the United States of America  on the Unesco Secretariat - as he said, "I am trying  to increase the United States! representation in sppro-  priate ways".  As 1 said earlier, when we speak of equitable
245     MEETINGS 11-22  geographical distribution we do not think of it only  in quantitative terms of numbers of posts, but also  of their importance, In this connexion, it isa fact  that the Director-General is himself a representa-  tive of the United States of America - a fact of which  none of vs, of course, can be fgnorant. From the  quantitative point of view, there is a figure 1 opposite  the name of Mr, Luther Evans, signifying that he  occuples one established post in the Unesco Seçre-  terlati and we can all understand that, occupying  such a post, he should be specially active in increas-  ing the United States representation in the remaining  senlor posts, It seems to roe, however, that in so  doing he is becoming confused about the primary  duties of a Director-General, as the head of an  international organization. | Mr, Evans cannot be  unaware that there are countries, a whole series of  countries, which are quite unrepresented or far from  adequately represented on the staff of Unesco's ad-  ministrative bodies, 1 have in mind not merely geo-  graphical considerations, but also those so rightly  voiced by the delegate of Ingia, who said that, in  considering the principle of geographical distribution,  we should not neglect the question of competence, In  that connexion, he pointed jut to the Conference that  there are well qualified spécialists in those coun-  tries which are unrepresented in Unesco. We all  know perfect|y well that Uriesco's Member States  possess a large number of competent, highly qualified  experts in the fields of education, science and culture;  and we might expect the Director-General, in the first  place, to strive to remedy particularly glaring in-  justices in the matter of geographical representation.  We have heard, instead, a positive statement that  the Director-General is goitig to take ‘steps to in-  crease the already large refresentation of the United  States of America. I shall not quote you detailed  figures but, at the present lime, that country ls re-  presented on the Secretariat - among the directors of  departments, heads of divisions, chiefs of services -  by nine people. This shows that the country in ques-  tion was by no means forgotten when such posts were  being allotted.
1 do not wish at present to to into all the details  of the question, but I would like the amendment pro-  posed by the Soviet Union and supported by the dele-  gate of Rumania - the amendriient which expresses  our concern at the Unesco Adininistration's failure  to implement the resolution of the Montevideo Con-  ference - to be endorsed. Because if, after hearing  the Difector-General's statement, we adopt a text  alleging that we note achievements and successes in  this respect, we shall merely mislead the Director-  Generrd himself and keep him from trying - which he  is not doing at the present time - to solve what ere  really the first and most important problems regard-  ing the selection of Unesco's staff.
(37) The PRESIDENT: 1 should inform the Con- -  ference that the Soviet delegation has now tabled an  amendment to paragraph 57, which proposes to méin-  tain the part of the sentence, “Thé Commission paid  “ particular attention to geographical distr ibution in  the Secretariat", but then continues as follows "and  to the need for more energetic measures for the im-  plementation of resolution V,4.43 adopted by the  General Conference at Montevideo on this question".
11-23 PLENARY  Does anybody else wish to speak on this? If aot,  I will pui this amendment to paragraph 57 to the vote,  and continue on this paragraph, and then read the  change: in the resolution proposed by the delegate of  India, ‘  We shall now vote on the Sovièt amendment to  paragraph 57; the whole paragraph is amended by  this proposal and it réads as follows:  "The Commission paid particular attention to geo-  graphical distribution in the Secretariat and to the  need for more energetic measures for the implemen-  tation of resolution V, 2,42, adopted by the General  Conference at Montevideo on this question. "  Will those in favour of this change pleases raise  their hands? Against? Abstentions ?  The amendment is rejected: 18 votes in favour,
24 against and 12 abstentions,  Can I assume that there are no objections to para-  graphs 58, 59 and 60. No objections? They are  adopted, '  We now come to resolution XVII, The amendment  proposed by thé Indian delegation refers to paragraph
3(a) at the top of page 24, English text. The Indian  delegation proposes to begin this sub-paragraph by  the following words: ‘to continue his efforts to im-  prove the geographical distribution of the Secretariat,  with due regard to standards of competence, in  particular ... ‘ (and then continues as it stands). 1s  that supported by any delegation? It is supported, so  we will vote on it. I will repeat that paragraph (a)  would then read "to continue his efforts to improve  the geographical distribution of the Secretariat, with  due regard to standards of competence, in particular  by applying a less rigid quota system for Member  States, where it may have unduly restrictive implica-  tions for small contributor countries",  Will delegations in favour of this proposal, please  raise their hands? Against? Abstentions?  The amendment has been rejected:22 votes in favour,
20 against and 5 abatentions.
1 shall now put resolution XVII in its original form  in the draft. We will vote on this. Will delegations  voting in favour of the resolution as indicated in the  Report please raise their hands. Against?  Abstentions ?  The resolution it adopted, with 43 votes in favour,
0 against and 6 abstentions.  Now we come to Section D. II - Amendments to Staff  Regulations and Rules, which includes resolutions  XVIII and XIX, As regards resolution XVIII, an  amendment has been proposed in document 8C/DR/140,  which is in your hands, by the delegations of Canada  and the United States of America. I call upon the  delegate of the United States of America.
(38) Mrs. HEFFELFINGER (United States of  America): Mr, President, the effect of th: amend-  ment proposed by the delegations of Cansdy and the  United States of America is to defer action on the  amendment to the Staff Regulations contained in reso-  lution D. XVII, paragraph (3), until such time as the  Executive Board hes had time to study the proposal  thoroughly. My delegation strongly believes that  this is the most advisable course of action. In our  view, the proposal of the Administrative Cormisslon  in paragraph (3) introduces fundamental changes ir  ‘he present Staff Regulation 0.1.1, without our    MEETINGS  having had sufficient time to weigh the administrative  and legal consequences. .  An equally important consideration is that the pro-  posal of the Administrative Commission represents  a departure from the United Nations practice, with-  out there having been prior consultations with the  United Nations on a matter which is of common con-  cern because it is based on common policy, My  Government, along with most governments here;  has been a strong supporter of co-ordination between  the United Nations and the Specialized Agencies on  matters of administrative and personnel policy, We  therefore believe that adoption of the amendment  proposed in paragraph (2) ls unwise and premature,  particularly in view of the fact that the United Nations  has invited the Specialized Agencies tu join in a re-  view of their Staff Regulations during 1857. It seems  to us that the soundest course to follow is to consider  the proposal contained in paragraph (2) of resolution  XVII in the broader context of the general review of  the Staff Regulations. Reference to the Executive  Board will enable this to be done, and at the same  time will provide an opportunity for thorough con-  sideration of this matter, The report of the Board  would provide the General Conference, at its tenth  session, with a sound basis for action, It is the  belief of my delegation that action on the proposal  made by the Administrative Commission in paragraph
(2) should be deferred until appropriate study of this  problem has been made by the Executive Board, I  would like to point out that my delegation would feel  that the study called for in the second part of the  amendment proposed by Canada and the United States  is desirable, whether or not the Conference decides  to accept the first amendment we have proposed.  In fact such a study would be necessary if Unesco is  to maintain a common personnel policy with the United  Nations and the other Specialized Agencies. There-  fore, Mr, President, I suggest that the two parts of  the amendment proposed by the delegations of Canads  and the United States of America be voted on separately.
(39) The PRESIDENT; You have heard the statement  of the honourable delegate of the United States of  America,
1 call upon the delegate of France.
(40) Mr. CABOUAT (France) (Translation from the  French); Mr. President, the French delegation re-  grets that it cannot support the amendment proposed  by the delegations of Canada and the United States of  America in document $C/DR/140, and asks the  General Conference to reject the first part of that  amendment (paragraph (1) df document 6C/DR/149),  and to confirm tha decision taken by the Adminis-  trative Commission, at its meeting on 16 November,  on the draft resolution presented jointly by the dele-  gations of Belgium, Brasil, Switzerland and France.  The French delegation considers that it would be  unsdvisable to postpone a substantive decision ina  matter so important as this, since it is urgently  necessary to establish relations between the Director:  General of Unesco and his staff on a sound basis.  The Director-General dacided, as long ago as  December 1854, that the opinions of the Special  Advisory Board were to be kept secret. Everyont  has thus had ample time to weigh this decision and   PLENARY  form an opinion on it, We consider that the argu-  ment based on the procedure followed by the United  Nations carries no weight so far as our General Con-  ference is concerned. It is, of course, desirable to  have standard general rules in this respect; but; by  adopting the proposal of the four delegatioris,” Unesco  will in fact be the first to lay down the law on this  subject,and will thus help to ensure the adoption by the  United Nations itself, and by the other Specialized  Agencies, of a fairer and more effective system than  the one at present In force, ' There is niturally noth-  ing to prevent the Executive Board - as suggested in  paragraph (2) of the amendment proposed by the dele-  vations of Canada and the United States of America -  from considering the findings of the review to be  undertaken by the United Nations and the Specialized  Agencies in 1957, and we are perfectly prepared to  vote for this paragraph (2). We cannot, however,  consent to the postponement of this question until the  tenth session of the General Conference, two years  hence. :  Moreover, it is time to bring the'legal position into  line with the actual facts, In practice, the reports  and opinions of the Speclal Advisory Board are not  kept secret; every scrap of inforraation regarding the  Board's decisions - whether correct or not - is in-  stantly circulated by word of mouth, If the Board's  decisions are officially conveyed to those concerned,  this will at least ensure reliable information. The  French delegation is merely surnmarizing here the  arguments that it had the honour to put before the  Administrative Commission, arguments militating  in favour of the proposal jointly submitted by Belgium,  Brazil, Switzerland and France, and disposing of the  objections brought against it.  The Director-General himself described the estab-  lishment of the Special Advisory Board as a meaus of  safeguarding staff members igainst the risk of an  arbitrary decision. A considerable number of the  delegations present at Montevideo were certainly won  over to support the Director -General's proposals for  the amendment of the Staff Regulations by his expressed  intention of obtaining the advice of a joint Special Ad-  visory Board. But the se¢recy surrounding the  proceedings and recommerdations of that Special Ad-  visory Board is clearly inéompatible with the safe-  guards it was intended to provide for staff members.  This incompatibility has, jndeed, been pointed out by  mm international legal body whose. authority is beyond  dispute - the Administrative Tribunal of the Inter-  national Labour Organisation, with which, as you are  aware, Unesco has concluded an agreement for the  ssitlement of disputes bétween the Director-General  and his staff, In threo recent decisions, the Admini-  strative Tribunal of the International Labour Organi-  sation took the view that the Director-General's deci-  sion to treat the opinions of the Advisory Board as  confidential would - here I quote from the introduction  to the findings of the Tribunal - "remove from the  Special Advisory Bonrd ‘ts principal object." The  Tribunal also took the view that, if the opinions con-  cerned were confided only to the Director-General,  the promised extra saféguard against arbitrury action  would in practice no longer exist. I will not take up  any more of the Conference's time with quotations, but  the reasons adduced by the Administrative Tribunal  In its findings give considerable attention to this
247     MEETINGS n-22  question, Those reasons, are, in our opinion,  perfectly consistent with the general principles of  law which Unesco is bound, to an even greater extent  than other institutions, to respect. Once this is ad-  mitted Mr, President, we have to define the scope of  the draft resolution adopted by the Administrative:  Commission. It {s specifically stated that only the  reports and opinions of the Special Advisory Board  are to be made public, This means: (1) that its  proceedings can and should remnin secret, thus avold-  ing embarrassment to those members of the Board  who might quite justifiably be reluctant to have their  opinions made public; (2) that those reports and  opinions are to be made known only as the anonymous  pronouncements of a group, If a decision is taken  by a majority, there is no need to reveal the minority  opinion, Whether or no a decision is unanimous, no  one save the Chairman of the Special Advisory Board  could be called upon by a Tribunal to explain the reas-  ons for the report or the opinion which has béen made  public, ° He would not be asked to mention any indivi-  dual opinion, but woild confine himself to reporting  the feeling of the Special Advisory Board as a whole,  Mr. President, France cannot suppose that the  Conference, which, two years ago, set up a special  body to provide further safeguards for the dignity and  independence of the international civil service, will  now decide to abolish those safeguards; and we can-  not believe that the Conference will continue to in-  sist upon the absolute secrecy of the decisions of  the Board, even as regards the officials whose  future is at stake,  Mr. President, the French delegation therefore  considers that the Conference can and should ratify,  today, the recommendations which have been dis-  cussed at such length by the Adminicirative  Commission.
(41) The PRESIDENT: Does anybody else wish to  speak on this point? If not, 1 will follow the pro-  posal made by the delegate of the United States of  America and take a vote on the first part of the  amendment, that is to say, to delete paragraph (2)  of resolution XVIII.  Will those in favour of this proposal please raise  their hands? Against? Abstentions ? ‘  The proposal has been rejected: 16 votes in favour,
25 against and 7 abstentions.  We now come {o the second part of the proposal,  which would then be added after paragraph (2). Will  those in favour of the addition of this new section,  please raise their hands? Againat? Abstentions ?  This addition has been adopted by 27 in favour,
0 against and 10 abstentions,  Before voting on resolution XVIII, as amended, I  would like to ask the Chairman of the Administrative  Commission to make a short statement on the dates  on which these two changes would come into effect.  I call upon the delegate of Switzerland.
(42) Mr. BARBEY (Switzerland) (Translation (rom  the French); Mr. President, ladies and gent! amen,  Switzerland, on whose territory several intevnational  institutions have their headquarters, has always  attached great importance to the independence of the  international civil service and to the safeguards  thereof, and is now more than ever convinced of the   I-22 PLENARY  need for such independence and such safeguards,  The delegate of France has just set forth, with re-  markable precision and firmness, the practical and  legal considerations underlying the resolution ad-  opted by our Administrative Commission on 16  November last,  The Swiss delegation has nothing to add to what he  has said, except one detail - a detail only - of psy-  chological importance, = °  At a time like the present, in which freedom of  thought is so serjously and sometimes so insidiously  threatened, the rights of any international official call  for special vigilance, Such a man, living, working  and thinking, usually in a foreign country and some-  times in solitude, must also have the prote ction of  special safeguards, It is the duty of the international  organizations, be they young or not so young, steadily  to strengthen the foundations of that security,  Naturally, the efforts we have been making for this  purpose since the establishment of Unesco could not  be crowned at once with perfect success; the system  calls for improvement, and will continue to do so. It  must be continuully overhauled and perfected by  systematic and - in the best sense of the word - em-  pirical means,  It is not only a duty, however, but an honour for a  Conference such as ours, possessed of sovereign  authority, to make its contribution to the improvement  of the system with wisdom and courage, and in the  light of experience, .  In asking today that the reports and opinions - and  only the reports and opinions - of the Special Advisory  Board be made public, this Conference can give the  Director-General a’ system which will accord per-  fectly with his natural sense of justice,  Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, we can and  should do this here and now, before we go our separate  ways. To adopt this resolution at this final meeting,  after ripe reflection, would surely be worthy of a  session which, moved by a generous enthusiasm, has
248     MEETINGS  already taken two decisions for immediate application  that will have far-reaching implications for the  future - one for the protection of cultural property  and the other for assistance to the victims of tragic  events, Time is not necessarily on our side or on  the side of our successors, To postpone would be  to lose an opportunity, and perhaps to lose something  more.  That is why the Swiss delegation asks you to give  heed to the appeal just made by the delegate of France,  and sponsored by the delegations of Belgium, Brazil  and my own country.
(43) ‘rhe PRESIDENT: The Chairman of the Admini-  strative Commission, '
(44) Mr. DAVIES (Australia) (Chairman of the Ad-  ministrative Commission); Mr. President, before  we vote on the resolution, as amended, I merely want  to say that it is my understanding that, unless the  General Conference decides otherwise, the dates  which we would fill in in the two blanks in paragraph
(1) and paragraph (2) would be today's date,
(45) The PRESIDENT: Is this proposal acceptable  to the Conference? It is acceptable.  Then we will vote on resolution X VIII, as amended. Will  delegations in favour of accepting this amended resolution  please raise theirhands? Against? Abstentions ?  It is adopted, with 41 votes in favour, 0 against  and 7 abstentions,  We have not yet voted on paragraphs 61 to 70, 1  imagine that they are acceptable ?  Then we have to vote on resolution XIX, Does  anybody wish to speak on that? I assume that this  resolution is accepted. We shall now adjourn, and  reassemble at 3. 30 p.m.  The meeting rose at 1,10 p.m.