4.1 November 1956, a1.9.30.a,m  tr otegslob HE RAE  … Chairman: - Maulana AZAD (India).
(1) The CHAIRMAN regretted his absence, at the time  of his election as President of the Conference, He  «hed besn unavoidably detained by a special Cabinet  mesting convened in connexion with the. tense, inter -  b motions: situation, 2 ( at atéit -ecil gl L SU ve 7  drdshasohiaso 9H a RS 4 a TTICTRPIPES IR ICEL ION  “ra > ye 0 Ass à hi ét alls,  A (ecto Vr N CE He Wi ti Flag £0  BER EY irrstoviovist a », 1 bi of wide mated oh  @ Mr. MUDALIAR RCA Ak tH i tous  Board) 0 f 9C/9 -  RAT oe A Eg of fhe)  me abd” Hé't che il sitight! dnkigea in thie!  Work kt id bébh'ad prey 4; thik out be! Buf ined by’  rent i bal Condtithgdl Dolo 1 Tn
3 dis Its Hoi La the Fl 4 od 1dylit sono ratio
(5) Mr, MONTAGNIER (Bodretaÿy):bubnilitoi to the  General Committee the Executive Board's recom-  ‘entaticds regét dikig the bryanisaiiol of the Work of  the vinths'sedbion of the General Conférence,! conv.  taliied in documents 8C/0 and 9C/9 Addendum, He i>  vkblainéd thitiuin drawing op those recomihéndations,  “thé Eke citive 'Bobid had been guided by the wighes :  ‘wipressed bj the Géweral Conferelice at its previous  “éessidn and hid takeh as a basidithe report it had 1  Iyrepared,'i it the! Gotferdnce's request,’ concerning  the" latter? s orgésiisation and methods of work y- 15001  (déciment 00/7) The General Committee was bir.  required to ¢onsider. the plan for the organisation of  the work of the catrent session and to submit it to =  ths Couterance fo ; approvalias a whole; subject to.  Sich changes dé:ths Generel Committee might later  find it necessary to introduces iii pi 2 101nd 24.0) will  The Secretary then submitted he proposed time -  Wile for the current week: .. aon AAMSTIAN D wild (PS)  Wikis bid 6; derbzq orld edt  = {OLAll Sivan  (document oc/1 Rev.); beginning of the ‘dlicussion  of Stem 7. . ‘ ET  “elem én . o {1% ta, PM mri ng sb  saut = ois! cussion of item 7, which  “would take at least six meetings, as 39 speakers  had already put down Toate naines, ‘  Mr, Montagnier thought that, at itd next meeting, ‘the  Committes would be able to fix the date on  which the plenary Conference could vote on the report     JERE ‘fhe. - Executive ; Boar     of the Administrative Commission concerning item;
11, 1 of the agenda,  Administrative Commissions; 11.0. AON C114 (01)  The i Commiacion ; was meeting. that; day 30.4  discuss. the : draft. amendments ste, the .Gonay  stitution (item 14.2). and, would, vefer.: thai 1.  . question, to, the Legal, Gommitise ; for, sony  o) aiderations io) suits nga, en qu hotata sr  It 1 would :.alao , discuss; item 12, 21; and, OS s  To psrticular, « 5.the proposed sople of. Member.  States" contributions; ,5{10- a off bie notiaditnos  Int; ‘accordance... with , {he |, recoromen tions; of  y (document. 8C/ 7;  Ancez  … paragraph 40): 1988, 19 1 include Rig  t- feat, report an) drats | regolytion ron, Mm  « 21. figaneing, Abe, badge}. itor.» 1957, Feet  When it voted on thas .xesolption,, the Con:  fore would. haye to. fix I ei  Nan ARIANE esseasmeent Ye LÀ où RÉ
1844 The Pravigio nal greys (ages, level; fs Lond  buf proyisions! spp evel, Mur 15° = “lt
88} d rom won od), du nobtssfu Fe De  The cu tee was to meet on 8 Novem rie ;  discuss item 14.2 of the agenda,  Tha Comm peunivies WAS, 5m             hot le  Vit i oot, on. [PH i    : be a or ; Lis sib tito  meet ond November’ p ed hin hw 4  ME ie BF CARL éiied i ok Uh  il  what date the draft Appropriation Resolutldd Wak ta  a the, Pp. er pet LIA th 451)  MF, tar the” Tnt  [Bie oan Aékirettts] Dit ma
16 baron provided ras ce + disses far  Fi fer Smal Report, , wpa, finishe PIS PAC dd on Frioan,
2. Nate REA DE cn a aed Le A at ticsma | fn. 19019}
(6) Mr. DAVIES wished to imow: (1) whether the  Administrative Commission could take à voté that  day on the constitutional’ amendments proptied by  France, Japan and Liberia and thet refer the matter  to the Legal Committee; (3) Whether the Administra-  tive Commission would take ip thé scale of °
1-1  contributions - item 12,2 of the agenda - and Jeave  the question of the currencies of contributions for a  later meeting; (3) whether the Administrative Com-  mission was called upon to suggest figures or only a  general framework of the débate in connexion with  item 11,1 of the agenda, cee
(7) In reply to Mr, Davies" first question, Mr,  MONTAGNIER (Secretary) said that the draft amend-  ments to the Constitution should be discussed in  plenary meeting not later than Monday 12 November,  before the meeting of the Nominations Committee. il  ES A
(8) Mr. DAVIES thought it very important that a  decision on the constitutional amendments proposed  by France, Japan and Liberia should be taken at the  earliest opportunity, Friday afternoon if possible,
(9) The CHAIRMAN assured Mr, Davies that the  Secretariat would make every effort to comply with  his wishes.  - ' -
(10) Mr, MONTAGNIER Secretary) mentioned that  ihe'Secdiétariät would have to be allowed sufticlent  time for the translation and reproduction of the  Administrative” Commission!s.Féportilis +.  Gothg où to'dnswer Mr! Duvles!decond question,  he stated that the Administrative Commission was to  confine itself to éonsidériñg the scale of contribu-  tions ‘and to defer its discussion of the currencies of  contributions and the collection éf contributions,  With régatd to the third question raised by Mr,  Davies, Mr,’ Montagnier explained that, 1ñ accordance  with the Riles of Protédurè and the plan for the  organization of work, the Legal Commiitës was first  to report to the Administrative Commission, which  would thèn report to the Conference.
(11) Mr, de BERREDO CARNEIRO thought it would  be a good thing to‘ällow 48 hours to elapsé between  the decision on thé amendments to the’ Constitution  and the election of the new members of thé Executive  Board,‘ ;  tou te 2
(12) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL’ said ‘Hat à the  Legal Committeels Work was not finishéd 6h the  Friday, a slight change in the schedule of the  following Monday's meetings would meet the point’ '  which had just beén raised.
(13)! The dE proposed by t the Secrelary,  ‘were approved. | Co '
(14) Mr, ALLYN dis a dha his} iologation adh hot‘  mind working 8 at night, rather than on Saturday.  atternoëf, when it might | be # more ‘dificult to secdré  a quorum, ; es} $ > vo
(15 Mr. MONTAGNIE BE retary) (ntokindd s the  General Committee that there were 39 hames on ‘the
284  GENERAL COMMITTEE  list of speakers, He proposed that, as an exception,  the ‘plenary meeting on Thursday 8 November, should  begin at 10 a, m, and that the afternoon plenary mzei-  ings on 7,8 and 9 November should carry on till
7 p.m, instead of ending at 6, 30,
(16) The suggestion was approved,
(17) Mr, MALLEA asked the Chairman for further  details about the numbers of speakers down for the  various meetings,  ‘(18)'Mr, MONTAGNIER (Secretary) suggested that  the President of the Conference, at the beginning of  the fourth’plenary meeting, might appeal to all  delegates to put down their names, if they wished to  * speak, before 1 p.m, that day (7 November).  He then informed the Committee of a proposal that  item 17.3 be referred to the Committee on Reports  of Member States,
(19) The proposal was approved.  Coast ps 1 : . EEN
(20) Mes MARTINEZ topo pointed out to the General  Committee thal, for reasons beyond their contro),  various delegations from the American continent had  not yet reached New Delhi, He considered that,  although the time-limit for putting down the names of  speakers might be fixed at 1 p.m. on 7 November,  delegates who had been involuntarily delayed could’  not be denied the right to speak, .
(21) The DIRECTOR: GENERAL sald that Hé had  been informed by the Polish delegation of the arpival  in New Delhi on 16 November of the Prime Minister  of Poland. He hoped that ¢ a ‘plenary meeting of the |  Conference might be heid that day to hear an address  by the head of the Polish Government,  = [SERS LT FATE,
(22). Mr, 'KEMENOV. reminded | the Gommittee that f  had just been decided that the plenary Conference !:  should diséussithe question. of the admission to the!  General Conference of observers sent by:International  non-goveramental organizations. (documents 9C/2 and
9C/2 Add, ).i.He thought it would be well for-the Con-  ference, which would have to decide the ‘question, to  have before it a complete list of all the international  non-governmental organizations which had asked to  send observers. The list should therefore include :  not only those organigations whose applications were  supported by the Executive Board but dlso those : |  whose applications the Board had nôt supported or’  had held over, The Conferencé would thus hive all  the facts before it when taking its decision,  Pe EN AUS FR TTS vipto< 4
(23) The CHAEMAN assured the General Comitités  that the point raised by, the representative of the  Soviet Union would be noted by th e, Chairiiar of the  Executive Board,  The meeting rose at 10, 20 a.m.