(16) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL stated that‘it would  be priate for the General Comimittes to ‘  recommend that the financial implications of the  inter-agency decisions on salavies and allowances be  jointly considered by the Administrative and -  Programme Commissions,  (i) The Committee decided that the financial implica-  tions of the proposals relating to salaries and  allowances be examined first by the Administrative  Commission and then by a joint mootine of the two  Commissions.  - DRAFT RESOLUTION PRESENTED BY AUSTRALIA  (document 9C/DR/122) .
(18) The. CHAIRMAN fnvited the ‘Cémmittes's  comments on document 9C/DR/122, regarding the  draft resolution submitted by the delegation of  Australia on the appointment or reappointment ofa  Director -Gene ral,
(18) Me. DAVIES stated that the Australian delega-  tion maintained their point of view, and that they  would not agree to withdrawing the resolution  contained in the document before the Committee.
(20) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL informed the Commit-  tee that, in the circumstances, he intended to make a  statement at the plenary meeting and to present to  the General Conference the following resolution:  The General ‘Conference  Noting the statement of the Director-General that  be intends to resign his post effective at the end of  the tenth session of the General Conference,  Decides to place the following item on the agenda  of the tenth session: Appointment of a Director-  General,
(31) The Committee decided to refer to the forth-  coming plenary meeting the draft resolution contained  "EIGHTH  COMMITTEE     tm-s  in document 9C/DR/122, presented by the delegation  of Australia,  GENERAL CONFERENCE
(22) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL, referred to Tesoly-  tion I, 2, 2 adopted by the General Conference at its  eighth session. regärding. the Organization ‘and methods  ot work of thé General to, rence, and suggested .  that delegations be asked make remarks and offer  suggestions while the General Conference was still  in session, No action would be taken for thé moment  but the material which delegations might send in  would be used for formulating proposals to the  Executive Board on that subject,
(23) Mr. MATSUI stated that the Japanese delegation  had prepared and submitted a draft resolution on that  subject along the lines suggested by the Director-  General, :
(24) Mr, KABIR thought that the views of delegations  on that subject should be sought at every session  of the Conference; the date for submission of  suggestions should be extended beyond the end of  the Conference.
(25) On the proposal of the Directéi-General, ‘the  Cornmitiee decided to recommend that a circular  and a questionnaire be addressed to all delegations,  before the end of the session, regarding the  organization and methods of work of the General  Conference, In preparing the organizational plan  for the tenth session of the General Conference, the °  Executive Board and the Director-General would  take into consideration the remarks and suggestions  made by delegations, together with any resolutions  that the General Conference might adopt on that  subject during the current session,  The meeting rose at 10 a.m.  MEETING
29 November 1956, at 9.30 a.m,  Chairman: Mr. LAPIE (France)  » soc SomeTTEE FoR BUDGET ADTURTUENTS
(1) The DIRECTOR:GENERAL said he did not ‘hink ©  it would bé necessary to hold the joint meeting éf the  Programiné and Administrative Commissions .:- …-  scheduled by the General Coinmittée at its previous  iting, Document 9C/9 had suggested the éstablish-  ment of an Ad Hôc Comimitteé for Budget Adjustments;  lu his view, that Cominittee should be formed as soon  d possible. The Committee was supposed to consist  of nine members, six of whom were already nominated
305  >  (Châtrénar and Rapporteur of (ine Programs Cômiris-  sion, Chairman and Rapporteur of the Administrative  Commission; and the Chairman of the Programme ’  and Finance Commissions of the Exécitivé Board):  There were thus three seats still to be filled and in  that connéxiok it should be borne in mind {hat the six  countries already on thé committee were all in the  group opposed to the increase of the. budget. ” "He  would accordingly suggest that thé number ‘of members  be increased from 9 to 17 to allow of better repres-  entation of the different athools of thought in the   Conference, Incidentally, the meetings of the  Committee shown in document 9C/BUR/PROV/ 14,  for Sunday, 2 December, afternooù and evening,  could be held, if wished, on Monday, 3 December,  in the morning and afternoon, '  $i
(2) Mr, KEMENOY expresped his perturbation at  the constant changes in the Conference's working  arrangements, He did not understañd w  departures were made from the decisiois already  taken, por why such changes were proposed at short  notice without giving delegations éncugh time to  think about their implications, Every change in the  arrangements approved complicated the work and  often led to confusion; he would be glad to know,  for instance, why it was proposed to raise the  membership of the Committee from 9 to 17 instead  of to 15 or some other number.
(3) The CHAIRMAN said his understanding was that  no objection was being raised to the holding of the  meetings arranged for Sunday, 2 December on  Monday, 3 December,
(4) The change was approved.
(5) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out that  the Ad Hoc Committee for Budget Adjustments had  to be set up, in any case; the only change he himself  was proposing was an increase in the number of  members.
(6) Mr, McCLINTOCK agreed that the Committee  had to be formed, but felt that 17 members was too  many and that a Committee of 9 would be able to  work better, He proposed that the three vacant  seats go to Brazil, Japan and Poland.
(7) Mr. KABIR agreed with Mr. Kemenov about the  confusion caused by the submission of proposals  without prior notice. It seemed to him that, while 17  would be too many, 9 would be rather few for the  Committee, He suggested proposing a total of 11,
1,e. 5 additional to those already appointed, and that  those 5 seats be allotted to Asia, Africa and America,
(8) Mr, MASSAQUOI agreed with Mr. Kabir that  the Committee should have more than 9 members,  He noted with regret a tendenéy in Unesco to concen-  trate power and influence vertically, in à few hands,  and thought that that tendency might cause the’  Organization many difficulties, It was not only the  few great ones that should be given a hearing, but  also the quieter voices of the small. He thought  that the membership of the Committee might well be  increased to enable it to reflect the differences of  opinion on budgetary questions and to achieve good  geographical representation. ,
(9) : Mr, {MATSUI moved that the Committee be  enlarged to include representatives of the United  States of America, the Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics, France, Brazil, oné other Latin.  American country, Japan, one other Asian country,  a country from the Near East, and a country in  Africa,
(10) Mr. HAVELKA was surprised at thé form in.  which the proposal had been presented, ‘and thought  that delegations should be given more time for -  consideration, ‘A Committee of no more than nine . .  members ;would be inequitable, as the necessary ;  geographical representation could not be secured on:  it, He moved that the decision be postponed until the  next meeting of the General Committee, .
(11) The General Committee decided, by 7 votes  to 5, with 1 abstention, that the membership of the -  Ad Hoc Committee should be increased to 17,
(12) Mr, KEMENOV thought that, as the General  Committee had decided to raise the membership of  the Ad Hoc Committee to 17, consideration should  be given to the proposals made earlier by the  representatives of the United States of America, and  of Japan, :
(13) Mr, MARTINEZ COBO thought that the Latin  American countries had not been givon sufficient : -  representation, and suggested that the Committee  examine the possibility of including Argentina and  Mexico, ;
(14) Mr. MALLEA, explaining his own vote, asked  the General Committee to bear the Latin American  countries in mind for the ends of good geographical  distribution,
(15) Mr. KABIR felt that the first point to settle was  the principle of geographical distribution, and there-  after the number of countries to be represented.
(16) Mr, McCLINTOCK supported Mr, Kemenov's  proposal, and asked for the inclusion of Mexico in the  list,
(17) Mr. HAVELK/ moved that Indonesia be included,  in addition to India and Japan, to represent Asia,
(18) Mr. KEMENOV seconded the Czechoslovak  delegate's proposal and, recapitulating the Soviet  delegation's earlier motion, read out the list of the
11 countries for inclusion in the Committee's member-  ship: Brazil, Egypt, France, India, Indonesia, Japan,  Liberia, Mexico, Poland, Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics, and United States of America.  - (19) Mr. Kemenov's proposal was approved.  PROGRAMME OF WORK
(20) Mr, MONTAGNIER (Secretary) read out .the - -  draft agenda for the ninéteenth and twentieth plenary  meetings to be held on Friday 30 November: -
(1) Recommendations of the General Committee  concerning the procedure, to be adopted for thé -  examination of budget adjustments,’ and the : ">  preparation of the appropriation resolution for -  the financial years 1957 and. 1958: election of -  eleven members to complete the Ad Hoc vo  Committee for Budget Adjustments (document..
(2) Measures to be taken and recommendations   GENERAL COMMITTEE  to be made. with a view to Member States' ensur-  ing the free functioning of education (document
(3) Protection of cultural properly in the event  of armed conflict (documents S5C/DR/82 Rev,,  %C/DR/119 and 8C/DR/120),  {4) Report of the Committee on Reports of  Member States (document 90/19),
(5) Report of the Executive Board on the place  and date of the tenth session of the General Con-  ference (document 9C/8), -
(6) Appointment or reappointment of the Director-  General (documents 9C/DR/122 and 9C/DR/ 132),
(21) Mr, McCLINTOCK proposed that the plenary  meeting begin by dealing with the Egyptian draft  resolution (documents 9C/DR/82 Rev., 9C/DR/119  and oC oR) 120). and then take that of Greece  (document 9C/DR/4 Rev,), going on thereafter to  administrative questions.
(22) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL reported that the  Sudan had become a Member of Unesco on 26  November. He als: reported that certain    delegations were drafting a proposed amendment'to  paragraph 2 of Rule 78 ¢f thé Rules of Procedure, -  and recommended that the Legal Committee meet on  the afternoon of Thursday, 20 November, to examine  that draft, He reminded the General Commitee that  the Headquarters Commitieé had remained unchanged  since the second extraordinary session of the General  Conférence (July 1953), and suggested that the next  meeting of the Nominations Committee consider the  desirability of changing the membership of the  Headquarters Committee and, ‘more particularly, of  increasing the number of members from the existing  figure of 14,
(23) Mr, McCLINTOCK said that the Greek délegation  had advanced arguments which had persuaded him that  it would be best to take the Greek draft resolution  {document 9C/DR/4 Rev.) as the first item at the  plenary meeting to be held on Friday 30 November,  Agreed,  The meeting rose at 10.40 a, m.  NINTH MEETING
1 December 1956, at 9,30 a.m,  Chairman: Mr, MASSAQUOI (Liberia)  VEIT OF THE PRIME MINISTER OF NEPAL
(1) The CHAIRMAN requested the General Commit-  tee's permission to invite the Prime Minister of  Nepal to attend the plenary meeting on Tuesday  afternoon, 4 December, when he would address the  General Conference,
(2) It was agreed.  PROGRESS AND ORGANIZATION OF WORK (document 90/21)
(3) The CHAIRMAN invited the Chairmen of the  Commissions to report on the progress of the  Commissions! work and to make suggestions regard-  ing the timetable for the remainder of the session  of the Conference,
(4) Mra, MYRDAL said that the Programme Com-  mission was continuing to meet three times a day  and that there was good reason to hope that it would  have completed the outstanding items on its agenda  by the énd of that day. It would, however, be  preferable for the two later meetings to be extended  and to last from 3,30 p.m, until 6,30 or 7p. m,,  and from 9 p.m. until midnight. After its joint  meetings with the Administrative Commission, both
307  in plenary Commission and in working party, the  Programme Commission should be ready on Tuesday,
4 December, to adopt its report.
(5) Mr. DAVIES said that the Administrative Com-  mission had completed the items on its agenda. It  would need tô hold a short meeting on Monday,
3 December, in the morning, to adopt its report,  He suggested that it would meet the view held by  certain delegations if the question of the composition  of the Headquarters Committee, which many were  anxious to see broadened, were discussed by the  Administrative Commission at that meeting and were  then transmitted to the Nominations Committee on  Monday afternoon, 3 December, He also suggested  that the joint meeting of the Programme and Admin-  istrative Commissions might need more than one  meeting in which to consider its heavy agenda.
(6) That suggestion was approved,
(7) It was agreed, following a suggestion by Mr.  SPILHAUS, supported by Mr, DAVIES, that a  proposed amendment to Rule 78 of the Rules of  Procedure, which would provide that no amendment  to the budget ceiling could be considered by the  General Conference unless it had been submitted at  least six weeks hefore the beginning of a session,