13 November 1956, at 10,30 a.m.  President: Mr. MASSA/UOI (Liberia)  CONTENTS  Discussion of the budget ceiling for 1957-1959 (continued) 181  DISCUSSION OF THE BUDGET CEILING FOR 1957-1958 (continued)
(1) The PRESIDENT: I call upon the delegate of the  Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.  {2) Mr, GOLUNSKY {Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) (Translation from the Russian); . Mr,  President, fellow delegates, our delegation sympa-  thizes very much with the considerations set forth in  the draft resolution of Brazil; Frérice; India and Spain.  We fuily understand the motives which prompted those  delegations to subnift a draft resolution of this kind,  but we much regret that they have done so in such a  berry. The resolution was circulated only yesterday,  when discussion of thie {tem had already begun.  We all of us realize, of course, that the financial  question is one which requires serious thought,  discussion and planning; : and very naturally each  delegation, when it Game here and prepared its  position on any perticular.point, proceeded on certain  definite financial agsumptions.,- Now, therefore, when  the question of raising the budget ceiling by $1,000,000  is brought up without any warning, delegations are of  course placed in a very difficult position. ©  I think that the {dea of referring this question to  the Advisory Committee on Programmnie and Budget,  mentioned by the President yesterday; is a very  valuable one, not so mich because the Committee will  be able to say anything fresh on the substance of the  matter - although, of course, it might do so - as  because it will givé all the délegatiôns time to think  thé question over, weigh all the pros and cons, and  get their ideas quite clear and definite by the time it  cames to the vote. I do not consider it compulsory  to refer the matter to the Advisory Committee on  Programine and Budget; but I think that our own  delegation and à number of others would be glad if  the atmosphere of haste which has enveloped the  question here éould be eliminated, and if these dele-  gations were allowed an opportunity to give seriois  study to the proposal, to compare it with the situation  as it was before, and to determine their position with  regard to the present draft resolution.  In addition, I feel bound to draw attention, in the  draft resolution submitted by the Administrative  Commission, to paragraph (a), which estimates at  § per cent the percentage of contributions unlikely to
181     be received. If you compare this figure with the  table of contributions, you will clearly see that the  reference is to the contribution of the Kuomintang  delegation. 1 do not wish to reopen the discusalon  on the contribution of the Kuomintang delegation, a  question which has already been considered in  sufficient detail here; I merely want to point out  that, from the standpoint of the correct conduct of  busineas, it is quite inadmissible and very strange  for the supreme organ of an international “orgeniza-  tion to sanction, beforeland, the non-payment of  its membera‘ contributions - to givé its blessing,  in advance; to a violation of the Constitution. So  far as I know, such a thing has never, been done in#  any international organization. ‘It {a another matter  if a contribution {s not forthcoming: then the  appropriate bodies will consider what to do about it.  But for us to give our blessing to a violation of our  own Constitution; through non-payment of a contri-  bution, implies lack of respect for that Constitution.  Accordingly my delegation feels that this paragraph  (a) ought to be deleted; and that, with regard fo the  rest of the question, delegations should be allowed  an opportunity to think seriously about this matter,  .which is of importance for our Organization, and to  prepare themselves to deal with it.
(3) The PRESIDENT: I call upon the delegate of  Australia,
(4) Mr. WEEDEN (Australia): Mr. President,  fellow delegates, the Australian delegation would  appreciate your guidance as to what the situation is  at present. As we understand the ‘situation, there  are now three proposals, either actual or foreshad-  owed, before the meeting, - First, there is the  proposal from the Director-General, resulting from  his discussions with the Executive Board - a proposal  for a budget with a spending level of some  $21,660,000.. Second, there is an amendment to that  proposäl presented by the delegations of Brazil,  France, India and Spain - an amendment, if we  understand correctly, that would give a spending  level of $22,660,000. Third, there is either an  actual or a foreshadowed amendment to that  proposal, this -time submitted by the United States  of America snd supported, as we understood the  speakers, by Japan and Canada - an amendment
11-14 PLENARY  which would provide for a spending level of  $21,800,000.  We assume, Mr. President, that this is the present  position,  The Australian delegation came to this Conference  impreased by the Director-General's proposals, We  felt that he, as a result of the most thorough consul-  tations yet conducted by any Director-General with  the Executive Board and with Member States, had  produced the most satisfactory budget yet proposed  to any session oi the General Conference,
1 hasten to add, Mr, President, that we did not  believe the budget, or the programme supporting it,  to be perfect. We expected that, within the budget  level proposed by the Director-General, the  Conference would be able to improve the programme;  we thought the improvement would result from further  concentration and not from the addition of more small  projects; but we felt that the Director-General's  proposed budget was one that could be supported and  we had in fact persuaded our Government to support  that figure. . Much of our argument to our own  Government was based, howéver, on the evidence not  only of the programme and budget itself but on the  evidence which we were able to give that this budget,  and the programme we ‘wanted, was a product of  careful planning, preparation’ and discussion over a  long period by the Director-General, both with the  Executive Board and with the National Commissions  and the governments of Member States. We regarded  the budget as a méasure of the sdale of activity of  the Secretariat, not necessarily’ and not by any means  as a scale of activities of Unésco, We believe, with  other delegations who have spoken on this subject,  that the real measure of Unesco's achievement is  the extent to which its work is carried out, not only  by the Secretarist but by the Member States  themselves, and at their own cost,  In passing, Mr: President, I would like to point out  that we in Australia spend considerably more on  Unesco programme activities each year within our  own country - and, with our neighbéurs, very  considerably more - than our total contribution to the  Director-General !s budget. But we know we are not  alone in this, 50 we do not think that this budget on  which we are about to vote is, by itself, the real  measure of Unesco's power or Unesco's programme.  We realize, however, Mr, President, that this  budget is important; and we realize that the  Director-General had to prepare his budget, in spite  of all his clear and detailed discussions, without full  knowledge of some likely salary changes that would  involve some adjustments, when these details were  known, if the scale of activities proposed was to be  maintained. But we regret, together with other  delegations, that à proposal has been made to  increase the spending level by around $1,000,000,  We appreciate the sincerity and the persuasiveness  of the movers of this first amendment, but we are  not in a position o support it. The whole of our  argument in support of the budget prepared by the  Director-General is based on its careful planning,  its deliberate thought as to what was within the  resources that could actually be achieved by the  Organization. The proposal for $1,000,000 increase  in the spending level is not one that can, in our  opinion, be supported by that same kind of argument.  MEETINGS
182  With Canada, however, we think that some  recognition should be given to the Director-  General's need for further resources - not to  increase his activities but to maintain those which  he proposes. We therefore feel that there is  something to be sald for the proposals which we  understand will be made by the United States of  America for a limited increase in the spending  level, but we regret that we are unable to support  the proposal for an increase of $1,000,000, The  Director-General draws my attention to the fact  that there is a United States proposal now before  the Conference, document 9C/DR/ 79 of 13 November,  This is a proposal which at present, Mr. President,  commands itself to us. We do not think that we can  justify the support of a figure which neither the  Conference nor our delegation has had time nor, in  our opinion, will have time to consider - namely,  the proposed increase of $1,000,000,
(5) The PRESIDENT: I thank the delegate of  Australia for bringing to our knowledge that there  are thréé proposals: ‘thé first, that proposed by  the Director-General and the Executive Board; the  second, the one proposed jointly by the delegations  of Brazil, France, India and Spain (document
9C/DR/60); and the third, the ane proposed by the  delegation of the United States of America (document
9C/DR/19).  The delegate of Ceylon.
(6) Mr. EKANAYAKA (Ceylon); ‘Mr, President,  fellow delegates; it was the original intention of my  delegation to register a silent voté on this important  issue but, in view of tlie new developments caused  by the amendment proposed by the delegates of  Brazil, Spain, France and India, oùr intervention in  this debate has become nécessary :  At the very outset, I have to stite, on behalf of  my delegation, that it regrets that it is unable to  accept the resolution proposed by the honorable  delegates of Brazil; Spain, France and India. :  Notwithstanding our divergence from their viewpoirt,  we would like to congratulate them on the eloquence  and tenacity that have marked their contributions to  this debate. - This, Mr, President, is not however,  in our view, à subjeét that lends itself aptly to  emotional eloquence. It is a practical question, &  question of dollars, a question of hard finance, and  it 1s our view that it should be treated as such.  I agree with the honourable delegate of New  Zealand, arid with others of his way of thinking,  that thé resolution lias been sprung rather suddenly  on us; that therefore, in a sense, it is ill timed.  May 1 presume that many other delegates here  have instructions from their; governments to support  the budget ceiling proposed by the Director-General  in document 8C/57 We have a right to assume thet  the Director-General has determined that figure  after an overall survey of the plans and proposals .  that he and the Executive Board had in mind. - It is,  doubtless, a matter regarding which both the Director  General and the Executive Board have had very pre:  cise consultations in an atmosphere of calm deliber-  ation. We see therefore no resson at all for having  counter proposals at this eleventh hour in an atmos:  phere of haste, perhaps emotional fervour and tension   PLENARY MEETINGS
1 would also like to take this opportunity to repu-  diate a suggestion implicit in certain speeches that  have been made, namely that the criterion of our  degree of faith in Unesco and our loyalty to its  purposes-is the willingnese to contribute money to  Unesco whenever the call for funds is sounded, We  of the Ceylon delegation maintain that the hallmark  of loyalty to this great Organization is allegiance to  the noble principles enshrined in tha preamble to our  Constitution.  I do not propose, Mr. President, to take up more  of the valuable time of this assembly. May I, in  conclusion, reiterate our support for the proposal - ‘of  the Director-Genafal, namely the spending level of  $21,660,000.
(7 The PRESIDENT: 1 call upon the delegate of  Chile.
(8) Mr. VASSALLO ROJAS (Chile) (Translation  from the Spanish): Mr. President, fellow delegates,
1 quite understand that the proposal to increase the
1957-1958 budget should have started a broad dis-  cussion which proves the delegations' firm desire  to examine carefully any amendment to the Director-  General's proposed budget. I understand the  procedural scruples of those delegates who have  opposed the position taken up by the four States. I  must, however, stress that, at a conference, one often  loses the sense of réality attaching to problems which  are encountered in so many countries with regard to  the adequate development of education, science and  culture, In particular, the group of economically  powerful States does not seem to take into account  the extremely urgent needs of many weaker nations,  forgetting that their own progress does not reach  most of the world's population and that their standard  of living is not shared by a majority of people who  have an equal right to enjoy the advantages of  education and culture. It would seem. that, from this  monumental hall, it is hard to see a broad panorama  of the world's problems, or to hear the clamour of  unsatisfied millions.  The major projects and their careful implementa-  tion undoubtedly constitute valuable contributions to  the achievement of Unesco's sims; their value is, I  would say, incalculable. Other projects, however,  have algo been proposed which, so far from being  mere supplements, are of obvious effectiveness in  their development and results. Projects should not  be accepted simply from a desire to increase  Unesco's activities; they should be accepted only  after their importance and value has been carefully  assessed. ;  The increase proposed is minute compared to the’  total budget; and the budget itself is, I would say,  minute in relation to what many nations spend, not on  progress, but on methods of destruction.  Anything that is done in favour of education,  science ard culture will always be too little, and only  when this is realized will Unesco have fulfilled ita  noble mission. The delegation of Chile therefore  strongly supports the draft resolution tabled by  Brazil\France, India and Spain, as being a contri-  the broader measure of justice which must  preside over the destinies of mankind.
(8) The PRESIDENT: I call upon the delegate of  the United States of America.
(10) Mr. ALLYN (United States of America): Mr.  President, fellow delegates, the delegation of tlie  United States of America has listened with the  utmost attention and the greatest understanding to  the speeches for and against the proposal of Brazil,  France, Spain and India, to increase the ceiling of  the budget by $1,000,000. As has so graciously  been pointed out by other speakers in the debate,  no country has been more in the forefront of  spending public funds for the betterment of mankind  in all lands than the United States of America.  Here, however, as the American delegation pointed  out yesterday, we are confronted with the matter of  pra {i nl accomplishment of principles. We do not  believe that the Unesco General Conference, at the  last minute and without due study, should blindly  vote money for projects which have scarcely been  considered. ‘  ‘There is another matter of principle which also  deeply concerns my delegation. This is the fact  that the Congress of the United States of America  is sovereign when it comes to appropriating United  States funds for contributions to international  organizations. I know, from personal conversations  with distinguished members of the Congress ou the  eve of my departure for New Delhi, that the Congress  of the United States of America will not look with  enthusiasm on attempts to increase the level of the  United States appropriations to Unesco or any other  international body without proper an! prior  consultation between governments.  Accordingly, I appeal to the Conference to dispose  of this budgetary problem by voting for the  compromise proposal of the United States of  America in document 9C/DR/79, and suggest that  we then proceed with the debate of substance on the  projects which this budget will sustain.
(11) The PRESIDENT: I now call upon the delegate  of the Federal Republic of Germany.
(12) Mr. von TRUTZSCHLER (Federal Republic of  Germany): .Mr, President, ladies and gentlemen,  the delegaticn of the Federal Republic ‘of Germany  is, on principle, in favour of every effort that will  intensify the work of Unesco. Therefore, at first  sight, we looked with favour on the draft resolution  proposed by the delegations of Brazil, France,  Spain and India. .  However, we have two difficulties to face. First,  our Government has accepted ‘the ceiling contained  in the Director-General's proposal. We would  have great difficulty in submitting to our authorities  an increase of the budget by a lump sum. However,  like several other delegations, we should be  prepared to take the responsibility of accepting the  augmentation arising from the increase in salaries  of Unesco officials, as we think that it is only a  matter of justice that Unesco officials should not  be in an inferior position compared with officials  of the other organizations of the United Nati¢us.  Our second difficulty ariges from the fact that’  numerous draft resolutions were presented after   u-14 PLENARY  the opening of the Conference and have not been  examined in detail either as regards thelr merits or  as regards their financial implications, We do not  think that we can solve this problem by just voting  for a lump sum incréase, Moredver, it has not  become clear to us whether this lump sum increase  is intended to cover the costs of the various  additional proposals, or - if I remember rightly -  as the delegate of India arggested, to augment the  sums provided for the major projects.  In consequence, as the situation stands today, we  shell vote for the proposal submitted by the delega-  tion of thé United States of America. However, if,  during the discussions of the Programme Commis-  sion, we become convinced that some of the new  proposals submitted to us are useful and urgent, we  should be prepared to take the necessary additional  costs into account in establishing the final spending  level,
(13) The PRESIDENT: I call upon the delegate of  Brazil.
(14) Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil)  (Translation froin the French): Mr. President,  fellow delegates, yesterday afternoon the delegate of  India brilliantly refuted the arguments which lad been  put forward against the joint proposal of Brazil,  France, India and Spain, I shall not revert to the  accusations which he, {t seemed to me, annihilated  by demonstrating their contradictions and inconsist-  encies. For the moment I shull confine myself to a  few questions of fact. First of all, let us look at the  figures, Yesterday I drew a comparison between  what the contributions of the different Member States  would be if they accepted the joint proposal, and  their contributious to Uneaco's budget in 1953-1954.  I pointed out té you perfectly frankly that, on the  bacis of this comparisoii, the contribution of the  United States of Ainerica would be increased by  $835,425 - that is, by $417, 000 a year. But, fellow  delegates 1 did not compare the dmount of Member  States’ contributions if they accepted the Director-  General's ceiling with that of their contributions if  the ceiling of the joint proposal ’ was aécepted. - -In the  latter case, the figures for the United States of  America are as follows: in 1053-1954, they paid to  our Organization $8,050,009, If %:4ir 1957-1958  cohtribution were that proposed under the Director-  Géneral's budget, it would come to $6,603,350; it,  on the other hand, they deigned to accept the joint  proposal, they would pay $6,834,825; in other words,  the difference between the Director -General's budget  ceiling for 1957-1958 and the joint proposal would  amount, for the United States of America, to  $330,000, that is, $165,000 per annum.  Thus, gentlemen, we are fighting, not a battle of  Homeric giants, but a Pygmy engagement about small  figures. 1 should like to remind the honourable  delegate of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics  that if his country had, as we all wished, taken part  in our ‘Organization’ # work from ita inception, he  would know from personal experience that, ever,  siuce the first year of our work, each time the budget  problem was discussed the procedure was ths same  It is always in plenary session, during the discussion,  that proposals for increases or, alternatively, for  MEETINGS
184  reductions are submitted to the assembly for  consideration, We have in no way violated the  provisions of the Constitution, or the Rules of  Procedure of the General Conferénce, or our  traditions. If there is ground for changing those  provisions, this is neither thé time nor the place  in which to bring up possible errors ‘of procedure,  Mr. President, it has also been miggested here -  and certain authoritative voices have supported  this view - that, since the Director-General and  the Executivé Board have proposed a budget ceiling,  it is incumbent on this Conference siniply to  approve it. Gentlemen, the General Conference is  not under the tutelage of the Director-General, nor  is the General Conference under the tutelage of the  Executive Bogrd. On the contrary, it is the  Executive Board and the Director-General that are  subordinate to the General Conference, and it is  for the General Conference to indicate, at each  session, the budget ceiling acceptable to the 79  Member States. The argument has also, unfortu-  nately, been advanced that Unesco - that is, a  Secretariat made up of about a thousand people :  chosen from all over the world for their high mora!  and intellectual capacities - cannot absorb into the  programme this paltry sum of $500,000 a year now  under discussion. Gentlemen, if this expensive  Secretariat were unable to fulfil its duties on this .  scale, it would be better for us all to leave Unesco  to die like a useless thing, to die a natural death,  But it is not true. Ask the Directors of the various  Departments of oir Organization; they will all tell  you that their activities are paralysed owing to lack  of resources. It is like a wonderful car which never  has enough petrol to cover the necessary distances  at the required speed. There should, in Unesco,  be no distinction between rich Statès and poor States.  I am resolutely opposed to this idea of a budgetary  tutelage exercised by States who pay more over  States who pay less, The American or Canadian  taxpayer, whose annual pèr capita income is $1,850  in the former and $1,200 in the latter case, pays,  in proportion to his own income, the same amount  as the taxpayer of Brazil, Iran or any other country  less favoured by fortune. Our scale of contributions  is so organized that our taxpayers all bear an equi-  valent burden, and I do not think that our parliaments  have cause to complain of ¢ lack of balance between  their several countries! obligations and resources  so far as Unesco is concérnéd. . Ï really believe  that, of all this Organization's Member States, the  American taxpayer pays proportionately the least,  becausc the scale for North América was fixed, not  according to a mathematical calculation based on  his income and his ability to pay, but according to  a scale determined by the United Nations with a  maximum fiure of 33.3 per'cent. We aré there-  fore on a footing of entire moral equality when we  discuss the Unesco anale of contributions.  Mr. President, the ‘delegate of Japan informed  us yésterday that lie would be prepared to support  our proposal if we agreed to devote 80 per cent of  this $1,000,000 to the major projects. I must teil  him that, so far as I am concerned, I can only  support his proposal. We are all anxious to see  the maximum concentration of effort on Unesco's  part; we are all concerned that it should display   PLENARY MEETINGS  the greatest possible unity of action and avoid disper-  sing its efforts in small enterprises of little scope.  Mr, President, I wonder whether the various  delegates who have pronounced themselves so sharply  the proposals in the Corrigendum, on the,  * ground that these were not included within the budget  ‘celling proposed by the Director-General, have taken  the trouble to study the Annex to Corrigendum 1?  They would there find projects drawn up in the  greatest detail, projects affecting the Departments of  Education, Social Sciences, Natural Sciences and  Mass Communication; and the Director-General told  you yesterday, with perfect frankness, that these  projects had been studied at length, seriously and  scrupulously by the Secretariat, in the same way as  the projects which the Secretariat had itself incor-  porated under its own budget céiling. But it is  usdef standable that the Director-General should be  careful in presenting these budget estimates; he  cannot forget that in 1952 a bold proposal cost one  of his distinguished predeceasors his post, Fellow  delegates, Unesco is not an organization whose main  task is to hold sumptuous General Conferences and  listen to empty words, It has specific objectives; its  Constitution stipulates that it must attain them in  order to strengthen peace and international co- opera-  tion, that it must ensure the common welfare of man-  kind, give fresh impulse to prpular education and to  the spread of culture, and m<intain, inérease and  diffuse knowledge. It must assure the coñservation  and protection of the world's inheritance of books,  works of art and ménuments of history and science.
1do not doubt that the delegations opposing this slight  Increase in the budget ceiling ave Gatirely loyal to  our Organization; but may I, to use the words of a  great French classical poet, ask them: "Can faith  without works be true faith?" Mr. Président, this  discussion really centres, perhaps, not on thege  $500,000 asked for by a group of States, but on a much  wider problem - the future of our Organization, and  the rate of its development; the $500,000 are merely  the excuse, the pretext, the occasion for our  exchange of views, but the question, if one looks at it  closely, goes beyond the particular issue being  debated.  Unesco, Mr. President, is ten years old. Through-  out our personal lives, we often make a little assess-  ment of our active, our constructive friendships; and  perhaps Unesco, at the turn of ite tenth year, should  do something of this sort. 1 would ask'you, Mr.  President, to be good enough to take a roll-call on the  joint proposal of Brazil, France, India and Spain.  Before concluding, fellow delegates; I should like  to say that my friendship for this Orgenization is  entirely disinterested; it is not because of the yalue  to my country of any particular project that I ask you  io watch over its growth. At the same time, I would  request you not to accept à compromise; refuse what  we ask, simply reject it, and revert to the Director-  General's "taboo" budget; but let us have the courage  of our poverty and not accept the sort of compromise  put forward by the honourable delegate of the United  States of America - the suggestion of $200,000, not in  order to meet the needs pr our programme, to meet  the requirements of the many projects which are  before the Programme Commission for study, to solve  the problems and allay the anxieties of our numerous
185  U-14  economically underdeveloped Member States, but in  order to provide for Unesco staff salaries| .  I fear that any observer who had followed the  course of our discussions and had drawn up a list of  the various speakers advocating or opposing this  extra aid for our Organization would have been  struck by a political fact. It is on the whole the  powerful and wealthy nations, with nothing particular  to hope from or to ask of Unesco, that have opposed  it; while the States for which Unesco was created  at the end of the great war remain faithful to its  aims and wish to see its programme implemented  with the greatest possible effectiveness.  Fellow delegates, do not widen the social gulf  between the "havea" and the "have nots", between  the economically sated and the economically under-  developed countries - try to build a bridge of  friendship.
(15) The PRESIDENT: 1 call upon the delegate of  Norway.
(16) Mr, SOMMERFELT (Norway): Mr. President,  fellow delegates, I have asked to speak not in order  to repeat the arguments which have been advanced  for or against the proposal of the four powers, I  think that all the main focts of importance to the  debate have already been stated. We are behind  schedule, my déar friends, and we must therefore  get to the vote,  As far as the proposal to refer the matter to the  Advisory Committee on Prograñime and Budget is  concerned, I think it is - I regret to say - not very  helpful. I was a member of that C::mmittee in  Montevideo and the things we discussed there were  not of such a general nature as that of a budget  ceiling, We had before us the different proposals  and allocations to the programme, and went through  them and discussed them very thoroughly, but we  never had such general questions referred to us.
1 therefore appeal to the Conference not to ge on  arguing for or against, but now to proceed to the  vote. We have had sufficient time to reflect on this  matter. It has evén been possible for some of us to  refer to our governments.  As far as the position of Norway is concerned, 1  should like to say, in conclusion, that we are in the  same position as Canada, we follow the same thought  as Canada. We can vote for the Americen proposal.
(17) The PRESIDENT: I call upon the delegate of  France.
(18) Mr. LAPIE (France) (Translation from the  French): Mr, President, dear colleagues, yesterday,  when J spoke at the beginning of the morning, I  wanted to support my friend Mr, ‘Carneiro on the  proposal signed by us and thé delegations of Brazil,  India and Spain; but I thought that my support was  almost unnecessary, since I had appealed for a  unanimous expression of opinion by the Conference;
1 thought that this matter would have been settled  yesterday morning, Obviously I was substantially  mistaken and I must apologize to the Conference for  my simplicity, but let me say that 1 am somewhat  astonished at seeing this question, which did not  seem to us very serious from the standpoint of   I-14 PLENARY MEETINGS  figures, assume such large proportions.  I very much hope that we shall reach a conclusion  this morning and this is what I shall now propose, so  that the business may be ended to Unesco's advantage.
1 should like, firstly, to reply to the main arguments  put forward by a large number of speakers, and,  secondly, to consider with you what has been proposed  as a compromise solution,  Among the arguments deyeloped here, you will .  forgive me if I mention only three, 1 apologize to my  colleagues for not answering each one of the speeches  made, but I am anxious to deal with matters quickly at  the end of this morning meeting. I see three main  arguments which have been raised in objection to the  French, Brazilian, Indian and Spanish proposal. Have  these projects for which we are asking for one million  really not been studied? 1s the Secretariat really  incapable of administering the projocts in question?  And finally, can it really be argued that the Member  States have no right to revise the Director-General's  proposala?  Well, gentlemen, of these main arguments there is  on, ar least, that we must dispose of at once, Is the  Conference simply a "recording chamber"? Have  you come here, from the four corners of the earth,  simply to approve the Director:Cieneral's proposals,  without discussion and without putting forward any  new suggestions? I think there can be no two opinions  on this point; what we are doing is in accordance with  the traditions both of this assembly and, indeed, of all  assemblies, -  Some of our colleagues have told us that the  Secretariat would be quite incapable of administering  this extra sum - 5 per cent of the budget - and apply-  ing it to the supplementary programme for which we  are asking. Really, gentlemen, this is to assess the  competence of the Secretariat and of the Director-  General at a very low level. If this great Organization,  these high executive officers, this Secretariat with its  many highly qualified men and its well established  services, are incapable of administering 5 per cert  more of activity and funds, it would really be a case  of losing faith in these important persons. Both in  the Executive Board and everywhere else, we have  most capable men, entirely eouipped to perform their  duties; and the argument put forward is not very . ..  kind, I must say, to the Director-General and the  Secretariat, = ; _  Further, we are told: what are these projects?  they have not been examined, we must have time to  study them. But that is an optical illusion, a mis-  understanding on the part of my honourable colleagues.  They have been studied, as carefully as those in the  Corrigendum; they haye been accepted and defended  by the Director-General; they aré ready to be  embarked upon immediately, if you give the green  light, to show that the way is clear, Most of these  projects, of course, have been exposed to varying  fortunes; they have been considered and discussed  by the Executive Board, as the records of its meetings  will show; and their presentation here testifiés to the  keen interest which certain governments take in some  of them, discussed as they have been and awaiting  your good pleasure. Such is the nature of most of  the projects \ntroduced by the French delegation.  Thus, ladies and gentlemen, you will surely admit  that the objections raised - the partial incapacity of
186  the Secretariat, the insufficient study of the projects,  and the non-competence of the Conference to add |  new programmes and new expenditure -are not  really convinoing, Difficulties have been grossly  exaggerated, or else have been invented where they  did not exist, I therefore consider - and 1 hope I  have convinced you - that the argumentation où  these three principal points js not & solid one, and  that you need take no notice of it.  And now, considering these objections to have  been set aside, 1 come to the second part of zuy  statement. We have to deal with and discuss a  proposal - the American proposal - which at first  sight might azem to be conciliatory. It consists in  providing approximately $200,000 more than the sum  requested by the Director-General, with a view to  covering part of the increase In salaries, That is  very interesting, it is a first step, and we are very  glad to welcome it; but it is inadequate, because  the American proposal is not sufficient for covering  the entire increase in salaries and wages fixed by  common decision. Moreover it carries the diffi-  culty over to the next Conference, since whatever la  taken from the Working Capital Fund will have, at  some stage, to be incorporated in the budget of the  subsequent Conference. Again, this proposal does  not allow the Programme Commission to take  account of the arrangements whereby substantial  funds ure assigned to the major projects. Conse-  quently, nothing is achieved by this proposal, which  appears so conciliatory if we simply consider the  relationship between the figures of 200,000, of
560,000 and of 1,000,000. The impression given is  of a cut into two, and then again into two, or of the  addition of a second quarter etc., etc.; an  impression of conciliation has been created, and it  is indeed a step forward, but it is not true  conciliation. . - _  What will the $560,600 proposed by the Dircctor-  General be used for? It will be used, ladies and  gentlemen, to fill a gap caused by increased |  expenditure due to the raising of staff salaries. It  thus applies, if not to the past, at least to what has  recently been foreseen; it will be used next year |  for officials’ salaries, and not for new programmes  that wé should like to see included, If this increas  of $560,000 were not granted, a certain number of  major projécts could not be advanced, because it  would be hécessary first of all, and quite rightly, te  pay the staff suitably, reguiariy and in accordance  with the decisions of the United Nations. Of what  use then would the American proposal be? How.  would the salaries be péld? Only half would bé" paid;  the other half would be drawn, as I was sayirig just |  now, from the Working Capital Fund, and the  question would come up again at the next Conference.  Thus this comproinise proposal, which makes so  good an impression, {s only apparently cotcillatorÿ,  for it is merely a compromise in regard to figures;  it js hot conciliatory in regard to tbe aétual matter,  the actual basis of the résolution, as we, together  with Brazil, India and Spain, have tabled it. Well  then, where are we? Do we reach a dead end in my  argument? Having demolished the objections and a  solution that is apparently, but only apparently,  conciliatory, shall I suggest nothing and return  quietly to my seat? Not at all, for I think my   PLENARY MEETINGS 1-14  conclusion will léad us to à solution, I have been  seeking this solution for some time with my éolleagues  of the French delegation; but I think it is very well  indoated in what the Cterman delegate has said;  subject perhaps to some adjustment of the reasoning  used by our colleague from the Federal Republic,  ‘First, of course, we must accept thé American  proposal; but we on our side shall not renounce the  {dea of the million, ‘Here are $250,000; very well,  we will take them. And then, we keep the million  suspended, as it were, over this Conference, and  swuit the work of the Programme Commission; during  thst Commis "15 work, we shall see how we can  make an adjustment between the $250,000 and the  $1,000,000. I ara sure that in this way we shall arrive  at a solution which will not merely reconcile figures  and appearances but will represent true and objective  conciliation. It is with the highest hopes that I  conclude this statement, which confirme what 1 said  yesterday, in the expectation of a solution along the  lines I have just indicated on behalf of the French  delegation. Such a solution would enable us to reach  a final conclusion with regard to this proposal which,  though it is a somewhat delicate one, we put forward  in the hope of broadening the future and increasing the  power of our Organization.
(19) The PRESIDENT: We have had a lively snd  lengthy discussion on this question and I think we  should now proceed to a vote on the three proposals.  Mr. Harper-Smith will explain to you what the  sctual position is - what we are voting on.
(20) Mr. HARPER-SMITH (Comptrolier): Mr.  President, I should Like to direct the attention of the  General Conference to paragraph 29 of the Report of  the Administrative Commission, which reads as  follows: "In order to assiat the General Conference  to fix the assessment level for 1957-1958, the  Commission submits the following statement of the  relationship between the assessment level, the  spending level and other income"; then follows the  statement that the spending level 1s the equivalent of
95 per cent of the asseszment level plus other income.  It is necessary to bear this in mind to make sure  what the Conference fs now going to vote, The  spending level depends on the level of other income,  and other income is composed of the assessments on  new Member States for 1955-1956 and miscellaneous  revenue. We are not in a position at present to state  exactly what the figure is for the assessments on new  Member States for 1955-1956,  The amount of miscellaneous revenue for 1957-1958  _ also cannot be fixed at present; this will depend upon  discussions in the Programme Commission. So what  the Conference has to vote on now is the assessment  level. The assessment level will fix the amount of  Member States' contributions for 1957-1958, and any  variation in other income will affect the spending level.  The proposal of the Director-General in docuinent
9C/8 Corrigendum 1 contains a provisional spending  level of $21,659,000, for which an assessment level of  $22,341, 000 ia required.. The proposal of Brazil,  France, Spain and India in document 9C/DR/60 contains  a provisional spending level of $22,659,000 with an  assessment level of $23,394,000. The propossl of the  United States of America in document 9C/DR/79 le
187     for a provisions] spending level of $21,800,000,  which would give an assessment level of $22,489,000,  The amount to be voted, thersfore; is the assess-  ment level, and the Cénference should be aware that  the resolution would read as follows: "The assess-  ment level on Member Stites for the financial period
1957-1056 shall be fixed at ,.... The provisional  cpending budget for the financial period 1957-1958  shail be ...." (and that is the provisional figure)  and "the Director-General is authorized to make  any adjustments in the spending budget and in  miscellaneous income, provided that the assessment  evel shall not be affected”.
(21) The PRESIDENT; We shall now: proceed to à  vote on the three proposals and I quote you Rule 86  of the Rules of Procedure which reads as follows:  "1, When an amendment to a proposal is moved,  the amendment shall be voted on first.
2. When two or more amendments to a proposal  are moved, the General Conference shall first vote  on the amendment deemed by the President to be  furthest removed in substance from the original  proposal and then on the amendment next furthest  removed therefrom) and so ca, until all the amend-  ments have been put to the vote",  The amendment furthest removed from the  original proposal is that proposed by Brazil, France,  India and Spain (document 8C/DR/60); the next one  is that proposed by the United States of America  (document 9C/DR/79); and the third, the original  proposal, is that of the Director-General, which you  will find in document 8C/b Corrigendum 1,  In voting, it is assumed that Mr. Harper-Smith's  explanations will be taken into account; and I would  like also to indicate that the Programme Commission  should accept the ceiling, without authority to revise  it, that is, to recommend that the amount be  increased, That is a very important question which  I believe could be decided by a vote on a show of  hands; the Programme Commission should not be  authorized to recommend an increase in whatever  figure is decided now. -  I call upon the delegate of the Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics.
(22) Mr. GOLUNSKY (Union of Soviet Soctaliet  Republics) (Translation from the Russian); Mr.  President, felldw delegates, for the reasons which 1  explained in my statement today, the Soviet delega-  tion finds itself in a position where it is unable to  take part in the vote. This does not mesh that we  are for or against any particular proposal, ot that  we have net a proper appreciation of the high  authority of the General Conference; om the  contrary, it is precisely because we regard the  General Confei-dhcé as à body endowed with high  authority that we believe it can take only -  conscientious, well thought out decisions. .  For these reasons the Soviet delegation y not  take part in the vote on this question, which if  regards as one of principle. The point is not,  whether the budget should be increased by $200,000  or by $1,000,000 - perhaps it ought even to be -  increased by énore than $1,000,000; the point is  that this question requires preparation and  careful thought; the opportunity for this has -
11-14  been denied to us, and consequently we cannot vote.
(23) The PRESIDENT; I call upon the delegate of  the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic.
(24) Mr. MALYSHEV (Byelarussian Soviet Socialist  Republic) (Translation from the Russian): Mr,  President, fellow delegates, while paying due tribute  to the motives and conclusions of those who advocate  the raising of the budget ceiling for the forthcoming  financial period by $1,000,000, the delegation of the  Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic considers that  major questions of importance to our Organization,  such as raising the budget ceiling, cannot be settled  in haste, without serious study.  The delegation of the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist  Republic accordingly feels unable to take part in the  vote on the joint draft resolution for increasing the  budget, presented by Brazil, France, India and Spain,  or on tha United States proposal.
(25) The PRESIDENT: I now call upon the delegate  of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic.
(26) Mr. KOVAL (Ukrainian Soviet Socialist  Republic) (Translation from the Russian): Mr.  President, fellow delegates, the delegation of Soviet  Ukraine appreciates the aims of the delegations of  Brazil, France, India and Spain, but has been unable  to study the desirability of their proposal or to  consult its Government. Accordingly, for the reasons  pain by the delegate of the Soviet Union, our  egation is likewise uneble té take part in the vote.  Thank you.
(27) The PRESIDENT: We are now going to dispose  of the preliminary question, that is, the question  whether the Programme Commission should be  instructed to remain within the ceiling which is to be  set now, or whether it should be authorized to  recommend that the amount be increased beyond the  ceiling which is to be set. '  I call on the delegate of the United States of  America.
(28) Mr. SPILHAUS (United States of America); Mr.  President, I come here for a point àf élarification on  this matter you have just brought up: I understand  that we are voting on three propositions - two amend-  ments and the Director-General's proposal - for the  establishment of a provisional ceiling. Our delegation  uhferstandé that this ceiling is provisional, but it  seems to us that the reason for establishing a  provisional ceiling is so that it may forin a guide  #ithin which the programmé can be formulated, sd  that I am a little confused about this vate to establish  a ceiling and then authorize the Programme Commis-  sion to raise it: It seems to me that in à provisional  ceiling you attempt to come as close to that ceiling in  the formulation of the programme as possible, though  possibly one might be a little above it, or indeed below  it, when things work out. I therefore feel we ought to  stick to the voting on the three propositions for the  establishment of a provisional ceiling.
(20) The PRÉSIDENT: I call upon the delegate of  Brazil. ’  PLENARY MEETINGS
(30) Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil)  (Translation from the French); I wish to say just  one word, Mr, President, in support of the recom-  mendation made by thé delegate of the United States  of America; the purpose of the ceiling is precisely.  to limit and direct the discussions of the Programme  Commission, to prevert the Commission from  finding itself without directives from the General  Conference. Whichever of the three ceilings  proposed is approved, the Programme Commission  will have to abide by that decision.
(31) The PRESIDENT; The Chair aécepts the.  position taken by the delegates of the United States  of America and Brazil, unless any objection is  raised by any other delegate. No objection,  We will now proceed to the vote, It will be n  roll-call vote; two delegates have aiready asked  for a roll-call vote, the delegate of the United States  of America supported by the delegate of Brazil. We  are voting on the proposal furthest removed,’ asl  have already mentioned (document 9C/DR/60), with  an assessment level of $23,394,355. All those in -  favour of the joint proposal put forward by Brazil,  France, India and Spain in document 8C/DR/60,  setting a ceiling on the assessment level of  $23,394,355, will answer "Yes". All those against  will answer No".
(32) The vote was taken by roll-call:  Voted in favour: Afghanistan, Brazil, Chile,  Colombia, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia,  France, Guatemala, Haiti, India, Indonesia, Israel,  Lebanon, Liberia, Mexico, Monaco, Morocéo, Pan-  ama, Peru, Spain, Switzerland, Tunisia, Uruguay,  Venezuela, Yugoslavia;  Voted against: Australia, Austria, Canada,  Ceylon, China, Denmark, Finland, Federal Republic  of Germany, Greece, Italy, J apan, Korea, Nether-  lands, New Zealand, Norway, Pakistan, Swéden, ‘  Turkey, United Kingdom, United States of America;  Abstained: Argentina, Belgium, Bulgaris, Union  of Burma, Cambodia, Cuba, Czechoslovakia,  Hungary, Iran, Iraq, Laos, Nepal, Philippinés,  Poland, Rumania, Saudi Arabia, Syria, Thailand,  Viet-Nam; :  Absent: Bolivia, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist  Republic, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Honduras,  Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, Libya, Luxembourg,  Nicaragua, Paraguay, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist  Republic, Union of South Africa, Urion of Soviet  Socialist Republics.
(33) The PRESIDENT: The result of the vote is as  follows: in favour: 27; against: 20; abstentions:
19; absent: 13.  The proposal of Brazil, France, India and Spain  in document 9C/DR/60, ‘setting a ceiling, that is an  assessment level, of $23,304 1355 in therefore  adopted.  Just before I make an announcement, I will call  upon the delegate of tha United Kingdom.
(34) Sir Beh Bowen THOMAS (United Kingdom): Mr.  President, fellow delegates, when I had the honour ‘of  addressing this assembly yesterday, I said that I   PLENARY  regarded this occasion as an extremely serious one  for Vé as an Organization, I did not realize, then,  that it would transpire to be as serious as it has  ‘actually turned out to be. We have all either taken  part or declinéd to take part ina vote that has  produced an extraordinary result. It means that  pearly half of us have either, through our absence or  our deliberate abstention, said that we are uncommit-  ted to what is, by figures, a majority decision, which  is, in any case, extremely narrow and which has  involved hardly more than a half, very few more than  ahalf, of the number of our Member States. This  surely does bear out the point that [ made yesterday  that we are having growing pains and are behaving,  with due respect, Mr, President, in a very édolescent  wsy, It seems to va quite clear that the obvious sign  of our maturity would have been to accept the recom-  mendation of the Director-General, At this stage 1  shall not detain the Conference any further, except to  say that the result of this vote will require most  serious consideration in the United Kingdom, and I  should like to enter a reserve on behalf of the United  Kingdom in regard to the consequential action that  may take place, once the figures of this decision are  reported to my Government.
(35) The PRESIDENT: I thank the delegate of the  United Kingdom and I call upon the delegate of India.
(36) Mr. KABIR (India); Me. President, fellow  delegates, I must apologize to you for Venturing to  address this session at this stage. I had rio intention  even two minutes ago of coming to this fostrum. But  {must say that the speech of my distiriguished friend,  the delegate of the United Kingdom, has astonished  and shocked me - the more so, since this speech has  been made by one who comes frora a country where  the parliamentary methods of democracy have been  exercised perhaps for a longer period than in any  other part of the world. In all democracy we know,  in all general discussions, thére are bound to be  differences of opinion, and a majority is a majority;  a majority of 27 over a minority of 20, I would say is  not à very small difference. Certainly a group of 20  countries cannot say that they would reflect more  accurately or adequately the feelings of the Confer-  ence than a group of 27 countries. And if you go by  population, I do not know how it will stand - I have  not worked it out because as I said, even two minutes  i had no intention whatever of intervening in this  debate.  The fact that 19 countries have abstained shows  that they have had serious misgivings about fixing the  ceillrig of thé budget at the level proposed by the  Director-General, It has been’ sald again and again  that, if we vote this additional money, it may or may  not be spent. I do not know if we havé a right to make  that kind of aspersion on the Direétor-General and the  Secretariat. If they can spend $22,000,000 or  $21,500,000, an additional $1,000,000 over two years -  $500,000 a year - is not likely to break the back of  either tha Director-General of the Secretariat. To  suggest that an additional $500,000 could not be spent  by Unesco would be, to my mind, to cast very serious  aspérsions on the Secretariat, which Î for one would  never accept. I would never like to associate myself  with any such sentiments.  MEETINGS
11-14  I may alsq add that I was even more grieved -  grieved, { use the word deliberately - by. the leet  part of the speech of the honourable delegate of the  United Kingdom, Least of all from him did we  expect such a statement when the vote has gone  against him, Those who did not agree with our  point of view fought their case eloquently snd ably.  I do not for a moment dény that in many of the  things they said there was a good deal of force, but  I would plead that those who pressed for an increase  in the level of the budget were just as serious, had  just as much the interests of the Organization at  heart, as those who wanted to limit the figure at the  level proposed by the Director-General. And I think  it would not be very fair for the opponents af this  increase to suggest that those who accepted the  increase were acting, if I may quote my honourable  friend, the delegate of the United Kingdom, in an  adolescent manner. If I may say so, perhaps his  intervention at this late stage was, shall I use the  phrase adolescent or shall I go to the other extreme?  There are two stages in which, perhaps, thére is a  degree of immaturity - before and after full adult-  hood, and I leave it to him to choose which he would  like to have.  In any case 1 should have thought that of all the  delegations, his would have been the last to suggest,  and in fact almost to hold out a threat to the General  Conference, that if a decision, even on a major  question of policy, goès against the opinion of any  particular country - however impcrtant the country  may be, however distinguished its position in the  international community of nations - if à decision  goes against such a country, that country would start  thinking of revisihg or reconsidering its attitude to  the Organization. 1 thought there was à suggestion  of a threat there which I would have expected least  of all from the delegate of the United Kingdom.  We have been pressing for an increase of the  budget of Unesco for many years. We have been  defeated again and again; today we have won after  several attempts. After our various attempts, the  General Conference has at last been pérsuaded to  the point of view of those who belleve that Unesco  should have a wider budget, wider prospects, and  should take on new activities. “Therefore; I have no  intention for a moment of questioning the bona fides  of those who have urged caution - it would be far  from my thoughts. I quite realize that they are  acting in thé best spirit, but let them also yield, to  those who pleaded for a higher budget, that they also  acted in all seriousness and with a full consciocus-  ness of responsibility! ‘I hope that when ultimately  a decision is taken by a ¢lear majority, not one of  us will try to question that decision or try to  express our resentment in the manner in which the  distinguished delegate of the United Kingdom has  expressed it today. '
(37) The PRESIDENT: I now call on the delegate  of New Zealand.
(38) Mr. BEERY (New Zealand): Mr. Président,  fellow delegates, 1 am merely rising to a point of  order. With all respect, 1 would suggest that this  particular amendment - and you remernber it is an  amendment - bas been voted on as an amendment.   n-14  But under the terms of Rule 86, Section 3, if one or  more amendments are adopted, the amended proposal  shall then be voted on. 1am not suggesting that will  maka any difference at all but I think it would be as —  well, with respect to you, Sir, to observe the  procedure if we could.
(39) The PRESIDENT: We will now hear the  delegate of Brazil on the point of order.
(40) Mr, de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil)  (Translation from the French); Mr, President, |  would ask you to act with the greatest caution. After  a statement which has been regarded by many  delegates as a threat, entirely contrary to the usage  of parliaments or of international assemblies, we  have a proposal questioning the validity of the vote  which has just been taken. "he amendment was  proposed formally «nd I distinctly stated to you,  yesterday, that it was the amendment proposed jointly  by France, Brazil, India and Spain to the Director-  General's proposal. No doubt can possibly subsist  in the minds of the free men assembled here in this  hall.
(41) The PRESIDENT; The point of order raised by  the delegate of New Zealand should be sustained, in  conformity with the Rules of Procedure, Rule 86,  sub-section 3: "If one or more amendments are  adopted, the amended proposal shall then be voted  upon’,  The amendment proposed by France, India, Spain  and Brazil was adopted. We shall now read into  section (b) of paragraph 38, document 9C/15, the  figure adopted, with the ceiling in keeping with the  joint proposal; that figure is $23,394,355.  I call on the delegate of Japan.
(42) Mr, HAGUIWARA (Japan) (Translation from the  French): Mr. President, since I rise to make a new  proposal, I think it would be preferable for a decision  to be taken first on the New Zealand delegation's  point of order: 1 shall ask to be allowed to spuis k  afterwards.
(43) The PRESIDENT: I will call upon the delegai 1  of Japan after the amended resolution has been voted  on.  We will now have a vote by ahow of hands yn  section 38 of document 9C/15, paragraph (b): "that  the assessment level for the financial period 1957-1958  be fixed at $23,304,355". Will all those in  favour please show it by raising their hands? All  those sgainst?. Abstentions?  The result of the voting is: in favour: 29;  against: 15; abstentions: 18.  The motion is therefore carried.  the delegate of Japan.
(44) Mr, HAGUIWARA (Japan) (Translation from the  French): Mr. President, fellow delegates, at first  the delegation of Japan voted against the proposal of  the four countries. It voted against it because, as 1  said yesterday, if funds were increased it would be  essential to devote that increase to the financing of .  the major projects and not tc disperse our efforts  over all the other proposals. I think the delegate of  I now call on
190  PLENARY MEETINGS  Brazil agreed, in principle, with this contention,  Yot he spoke of projects which appear in the Annex;  to Corrigendum } to document 90/5, He also sho  of certain draft resolutions presented by Member …  States, and on this point his intentions were not  very clear; that is why I voted "against'', But once  the détision has been taken by a majority, it ought,  I think, to be accepted by everyone, according to .  the principles of democracy and sportsmenship. In  the second ballot, therefore, the delegation of  Japan voted "in favour".  Having thus explained my position, 1 continue to  believe that the increase in funds should largely be.  devoted to the financing of the major projects, to sa  intensification of our efforts on behalf of the three  major projects. Now among the scare or go of  proposals contained in the Annex to Corrigendum 1  to document 9C/5, very few will have any relation  to the major projects. And among the draft  resolutions presented by Member States, only one  proposal, so far as I know, has been submitted for  the expansion of the East-West major project - the  proposal of the Israeli delegation. , The others for  the most part have no bearing on the major projects.  Now that the ceiling has baen raised, if we wanted  to propose new activities connected with s major  project, we should have to submit new proposals,  and the delegation of Japan is prepared to do so;  but Rule 78 of the Rules of Procedure states that  "proposals containing new programme renolutions.  or amendments to the draft programme involving  new activities or increasing substantially the budget  estimates shall reach the Director-General in  writing at least ten days before the opening of the  session". If you apply this Rule, it is no longer  possible to present proposals for increasing the  Organization's activities under a major project,  And that is certainly not the intention of thé four  powers who submitted this amendment to the  Director-General's proposal. I therefore move,  formally, that the General Conference apply Rule
108 ("Suspension"), which states: "No rule of  procedure may be suspended unless suspension is  provided for under an existing rule or unlass the  motion for suspension is adopted by a two-thirds  majority of the members present and votiog." =
1 accordingly propose the application at Rule 108  and the suspension of Rule 78 for ali proposals, ‘  made within a time-limit to be fixed by ths Genera!’  Conference, that relate to the increase of ‘Unesco's  activities in the field of the thrée major projects.  I would ask you, Mr. President, to consider this  proposal and, if necessary after the General  Committee's decision, to submit this resolution  formally to the General Conference.
(45) The PRESIDENT: I call upon the del egate of  Pakistan, who wants to speak on & point of order  after the delegate of India.
(46) Mr. KABIR (India): Mr. President, the pols’  on which I want information is this: the honourable  delegate of Japan has referred to Rule 108 of the  Rules of Procedure. But there is also Rule 107.  These Rules of Procedure, except when they repre-  duce provisions of the Constitution, may be altered  by a decision of the General Conference by à simple   PLENARY  majority. Now the point on which I wanted the advice  of the Secretariat here id that, if the Rules of Proce-  dire, on the advice of the Legal Committee, can be  ed by a simple majority, 1 do not see any reason  vhy Rule 108 should be invoked; secondly, when the  budget ceiling has been raised and the matter is  before the Programme Commission, it‘can sertainly  make adjustments within the ceiling. 1 do not think  thst any proposals which will now come in for  alterations of the particular figures proposed in the  Director-General! s budget will be in the nature of the  amendments which my honourable friend the delegate  of Japan has in view. They will not be formal  smendments in that sénse, but will be within the  budget allocations approved by the General Conference,  The Programme Commission should in my view be  shle to make such alterations as are necessary, so  long as the ceiling is not exceeded. These are the  two points on which I would like a ruling, Si".
(47) The PRESIDENT: I now call upon the delegate  of Pakistan.
(48) Mr. SHARIF (Pakistan): Mr. President, fellow  delegates, 1 have great pleasure in supporting the  froposal made by the distinguished delegate of Japan.  In doing so, I would like to remind the Conference  that the main argument which, in my opinion, has  influenced the decision was the one favouring  concentration on the major projects. I beliuve that  the emphasis laid on East-West cultural relations,  the emphasis on arid zone research, the emphasis  laid so rightly, by the distinguished delegate of India,  on literature for new literates, was the argument  which should have influenced the increase in the  budget,
1 therefore very much hope that the Programme  Commission will be permitted to adjust the pro-  gramme in such a manner as to give these projects  the necessary importance.
(49) The PRESIDENT: Are there any other speakers?  I now put the Japanese proposal to the vote.  MEETINGS
191  I-14  The delegate of Japan has proposed suspension of  Rule 78, paragraph 2, under Rule 108 of thé Rules of  Procedure, in order to allow draft resclutions to be  proposed, after the time set by Rule 78, on the three  major projects. From my understanding, the last  date for submission of Lise draft resolutions will  be fixed by the General Committee of the Conference.
1 now propose to put to the vote the Japanesa  proposal to suspend Rule 78, paragraph 2. This  requires a two-thirds majority, Unless someone  asks for a roll-call, we will proceed by a show of  hands. Those in favour of the suspension of Rule 78,  paragraph 2, in accordance with Rule 108, as  proposed by the delegation of Japan, please raise  their hands. 25. Those against? 8. Abstentions?  The proposal is therefore carried by a two-thirds  majority and Rule 78, paragraph 2, is suspended,  The General Committee will fix the date beyond  which no draft resolution should be presented.  We now wish to make the following announcement.  At the end of this meeting a short ceremony will take  place outside this building to hoist the flage of  Morocco and Tunisia, who, having ratified the  Constitution, have now become full Member States of  Unesco.  I call upon the delegate of the Netherlands.
(50) Mr. REININK (Netherlands): Mr. President,
1 do not need much of your time, but 1 would like to  ask you to repeat the result of the voting. We did  not get it very well in our delegation. -
(51) The PRESIDENT: For the benefit of the  delegation of the Netherlands, and others who may  require this information, I wish to repeat the result  of the vote on the proposal of the delegate of Japan,  that is: to suspend Rule 78, paragraph 2, by  applying Rule 108. Votes in favour: 26; Against:
8; Abstentions; 27. Total of votes for and against:
33. The two-thirds majority required is obtained.  The meeting rose at 1 p.m.