6 November 1956, at 3,30 p.m,  President: Mr, ZAVALA MUNIZ (Uruguay)  later: Mr, HALLSTEIN (Federal Republic of Germany)  CONTENTS  Adoption of the #evised agenda , . . . , +. « 4 « 4 + 4 = 28  Report of the Nominations Committee and election of the  President and ten Vice-Presidents of the General Con-  ference. . « + + « + o + 31 . +. .  . Ba)  Appointment of the Chairmen of Commissions and Com-  mittees  ADOPTION OF THE REVISED AGENDA
(1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  The meeting is open. We will now consider item 3  of the agenda, which is the adoption of the agenda,  first hearing the report of the Chairman of the Execu-  tive Board on documents 9C/1 Rev. and 9C/1 Rev.  Add.  I call upon the Chairman of the Executive Board,  Dr, Arcot Mudaliar.
(2) Mr. MUDALIAR (India) (Chairman of the Execu-  tive Board): Mr. President, on behalf of the Execu-  tive Board, I beg to place before the General Con-  ference the revised agenda of the ninth session of the  General Conference. This is contained in document
9C/1 Rev,  I have also to present on behalf of the Executive  Board an additional document which reads as follows:  "At its meeting on 3 November the Executive  Board adopted the following resolution:  The Executive Board,  Having considered the report of the Ad Hoc Com-  mittee on tht réquest of the Greek Government to  include a new item in the revised agenda of the ninth  session of the General Conference, this item being  that contained in document 45 EX/2, Annex I,  Decides that this item be included in the revised  agenda of the ninth session of the General Conference,  accompanied by a summary of the views contained in  the report of the Ad Hoc Committee."  This item to be included in the agenda reads as  follows: "Consideration by the General Conference  of measures to be taken and recommendaticus to be  made with a view to ensuring that Member States  maintain the free functioning of education in the ter-  ritories under their administration,” A copy of the  report of the Ad Hoc Committee referred to in the  resolution {s attached to document 9C/1 Rev. Add.
(3) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):
32  Having heard the report of the Chairman of the Execu-  tive Board, we will, if no delegate wishes to speak,  take a vote on Dr, Mudaliar's report on the agenda  and on the addendum,  I call upon the delegate of the United Kingdom.
(4) Sir Ben Bowen THOMAS (United Kingdom): Mr.  President and fellow delegatés,’ I wonder if I might  call your attention as a Conference to the propriety of  including the last additional item; contained in docu-  ment 9C/1 Rev, Add, which was referred to by the  Chairman of the Executive Board a minute ago, in our  agenda for this Conference, I do so, animated by two  considerations - at least two - on our behalf,  The first, I think, has been expressed by the Prime  Minister of this country yesterday and by the delegate  of India in his intervention on the discussion on the  report of thé Credentials Committee this morning -  namely the general question of the propriety of raising  certain items in our Conference. There may be places  where certain items should be raised and it may be a  fact that those items are very prominent in our minds,  but it is an éntirely different matter whether this is  the right and proper place for raising and discussing  those matters. I would therefore ask my fellow dele-  gates to consider in the first place, aa a matter of  general decision, whether this {is a matter that can  rightly and properly be considered by us in our  Conference,  My second point fs to ask my fellow delegates  through you, Mr. President, to consider whether this  is actually within the terms of our Constitution. From  the general position I muve to the constitutional posi-  tion and would ask those of you who have the Manual  of the Conference near you to turn to the Constitution  and to consider section 3 of Article I. There you will  see that it is clearly laid down that certain matters  should not fall for discussion in such an assembly as  ours; as far as I can see - and I am sure that my  fellow delegates in examining that clause and also in  considering this paper before them, will come to the   PLENARY  same opinion - it is not constitutional that certain  matters should come before us, Indeed if we decided  that mattera of this kind should be brought before us,  we would find ourselves moving possihly from prece-  dent to precedent, which would encumber the work of  the Organization with the consideration of matters  with which the Organizailon is not directly concerned.  I therefore, Mr, President, at this stage, would  ask my fellow delegates seriously to consider whether  this additional matter can be appropriately included  in our agenda for the Conference,
(5) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):
1 call upon the delegate of Italy.
(6) Mr. VERONESE (Italy) (Translation from the  French): Mr, President and delegates, the reference  just made by thé Chairman of the Executive Board to  the document accompanying the revised agenda pre-  sented by the Executive Board itsulf, and the remarks  of the delegate of thé United Kingdom, impel me to  move the adjournment of the discussion, for reasons  that I shall state clearly.  The study already made by the Executive Board and  certain of its members, led to a fairly detailed dis-  cussion of the legal questions raised by this request  for the inclusion of a new item in the agenda, The  first question considered relates to what is known as  domestic jurisdiction; and {t was not studied exhaus-  tively by the Ad Hoc Committee of the Executive  Board, The second question, which was considered  in greater detail, is that of the special provisions to  be invoked in thé case In point, if it is considered that  the Greek Government's request comes within the -  scope of the Rules of Procédure concerning Recom-  mendations to Member States and International Con-  ventions covered by the terms of Articlé IV, para-  graph 4, of the Constitution. Article 3 of these Rules,  which I will describe as a special provision; lays  down that "no new propdsal for the regulation oñ ux  international basis of any question by the adoption by  the General Conference of an’ interiational ¢onvention  or a recommendation to Member States shall be in-  cluded in the provisional agerida of the General Con-  ference unless: (a) it {5 accompanied by a prelimi-  nary study of the technical and legal aspects of the  problem under consideration; ‘and (b) it has first been  examined by the Executive Board at least 90 days . °  before the opening of the session of the General Con-  ference", In my view, this Article postulates clearly  the conditions required for the inclusion ôf a proposal  in the provisional agenda,‘ ‘Now haturally the question  to be decided - it was not decided by the Executive  Board, but the General Conference can and must  decide it - is whether the Greek Government's request  would come within the scope of the provisiôns of  Article 3." If it did so, the request; not being accom-  panied by à preliminary study and not having been  first examiried by the Executive Board at least 90  days before the opening of the session; could not be  included in the agenda, ‘This is an interlocutory  question on which I will not pronounce, though I ven-  ture to emphasize its importance. In the opinion of  the Italian delegation, if the General Conference is  not able to pronounce on the scope, on the exact  nature of the Greek Government's proposal, it cannot  decide whether the Rules of Procedure which I have  MEETINGS     I1-3  quoted are applicable to the case, and cannot decide  whether to include the proposal in the agenda, - The.  question is therefore a legal one, deserving careful  and detailed study, in which Article I, paragraph 3,  of the Constitution, which deals with domestic juris-  diction, must also, naturally, be tuken into account.  In these circumstances, Mr, - President, 1 have  the honour to suggest without prejudice or bias, in  an endeavour to pave the way for a calm and serious  discussion, based on well-weighed arguments, that  we have recourse to Rule 33 of the Rules of Pro-  cedure of the General Conference, which stipulates  that "the Legal Committee may be consulted on any  question concerning the interpretation of the Consti-  tution and of the Regulations". As the present -  matter turns on the application of a rule, I think that  recourse to the Legal Committee is clearly indicated.  It is for that purpose that I venturé to move the ad-  journment of the discussion, with the clear and  avowed intent that, during the adjournment, the ques-  tion be referred to the Legal Committee once the  latter is established and working, so that it can  report thereon to the General Conference in plenary  meeting; this would enable a decision to be taken  with full knowledge of the facts.  I hope that I have thrown some light on the ques-  tion and wish to repeat that my sole intention is to  ensure a calm and objective debate; I hope, there-  fore, that my motion wi!l be seconded,
(7) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  I understand that the Italian delegate's proposal is  essentially technical; the matter now for discussion  is therefore the proposal to adjourn the debate on  the question raised by Greece, with a view to refer-  ring it to the Legal Committee.  I call upon the delegate of Greece.
(8) Mr, AVEROFF (Greece) (Translation from the  French): Mr, President and fellow delegates, I.  accept the adjournment of the discussion, as pro-  posed by the delegate of Italy. I should like, how-  ever, to make an amendment to docurnent 9C/DR/4,  already considered by the Executive Board - an  amendment which, incidentally was suggested by the  Report of the Ad Hoc Committee, document
45 EX/INF/2, page 3, paragraph 13. The wording  should be changed by altering the heading to "Draft  resolution’ instead of "Draft recommendation'’, and  by substituting "Invites Member States to" for  "Recommends that Member States" in paragraph (4)  on page 1 of document 9C/DR/4.
(9) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  J call upon the delegate of Egypt.
(10) Mr. AWAD MOHAMMED (Egypt): Mr, Presi-  dent, thé Greek resolution which is proposed as an  addition to the revised agenda of the General Con-  ference is quite legitimate and I hope that the dele-  gate of the United Kingdom will not look upon it aa  anything other than something which the Greek  Government should be concerned with and has every  right to ask the General Conference to pronounce  upon. It is a question which is concerned with educa-  tion in non-self-governing territories - a subject by  no means new to the Organization - which was treated   n-3 PLENARY  extensively in 1950 at Florence and in other gather-  ings of Uneaco, It has been alleged that this question  has a technical or legal aspect which calls for a re-  commendation and not a resolution, I know that the  General Conference will adopt a broad attitude toward  this question, support the Greek complaint and give  the Greeks every possibility of expressing their feel-  ings and their opinions on the question.  When I asked to speak, Mr, President, I was really  going to ask, not that the question be referred to the  Legal Committee, but rather that Article 20 of the  Rules of Procedure concerning Recommendations to  Member States and International Conventions be fol-  lowed, which makes it possible for us to waive cer-  tain rules for the purpose of settling questions; but,  in view of the fact that my colleague of Greece has  already accepted the proposal that this question be  referred to the Legal Committee, ! have nothing fur-  ther to add except to hope that the Legal Committee  will arrive at a wise and sensible decision.
(11) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish}:
1 call upon the delegate of the United States of  America.
(12) Mr, ALLYN (United States of America): Mr.  President, fellow delegates, in the light of the state-  ment of the honourable delegate of Greece, the dele-  gation of the United States of America, without pre-  judice to the question at issue, agrees with the  honourable delegate of Italy that this motion should be  submitted to the Legal Committee for study, and we  would like to second his motion, which is accepted by  the honourable delegate of Greece.  {13) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  If no other delegate wishes to speak, we will proceed  to vote on the report on the agenda, excluding the sub-  ject raised by the delegate of Greece, which would  then be referred to the Legal Committee for subse-  quent report to the plenary Conference.  We will accordingly take a vote,
(14) Sir Ben Bowen THOMAS (United Kingdom): May
1 ask, Sir, if we are voting on the agenda as a whole,  or on the proposal of the delegate of Italy?
(15) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  The proposal on which we are voting is to approve the  agenda presented by the Executive Board, but without  the item raised by Greece, which is to be referred to  the Legal Committee and subsequently, with the  latter's report, to be submitted to the Conference in  plenary meeting.  Will delegates please vote?  The proposal is approved unanimously, The agenda  is therefore approved, with the exclusion of the item  proposed by Greece, which is referred to the Legal  Committee. , :  I call upon the delegate of the United Kingdom,
(16) Sir Ben Bowen THOMAS (United Kingdom): Mr.  President and fellow delegates, may I very briefly  again raise another matter which is of general inter-  est to us and, I think, a matter of common concern  arising out of the matter which has just been disposed  of? 1reter to document 9C/DR/4 which is before us,  MEETINGS
30  which contains the draft recommendation and explana-  tory memorandum from the Greek Government and  then a further annex entitled "The educational situa-  tion in Cyprus", The point of general interest that I  wish to make is that I would regard it - and ! think  others of my fellow delegates share my view - as  irregular that an annex of this kind should be eircula-  ted before the Conference has declded to include the  matter on the agenda, and, secondly, before it has  been considered by the General Committee of the Con-  ference. [further wish to say that I consulted the  Secretariat on the propriety of this procedure and was  given assurance that I was right, and you may well  imagine the disappointment that I feel, and that others  of my fellow delegates also feel, that this should have  been circulated as an official document. I think it  should be withdrawn so that, after we receive the re-  port from the Legal Committee, it may be possible  for another document to be circulated so that the dele-  gates may have a fair and balanced statement of the  facts before them, 1am in your hands, Mr. President,  as to whether you would instruct that this annex he  withdrawn as an official paper of the Conference. .
(17) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):
1 call upon the Director-General,
(18) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL: Mr. President,  this annex was circulated by the Secretariat through  error and, if the Conference is willing to allow me to  withdraw it, I will do so.
(19) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the § punish):  Has the Conference any objection to the Direcior-  General's withdrawing this part of the document? If  the meeting has no objection, that part will be with-  drawn,
1 call upon the delegate of Greece.
(20) Mr. AVEROFF (Greece) (Translation fiom the  French): Mr. President and fellow delegates, Ihave  a natural objection to this document's being withdrawn.  It was sent by the Greek Government as supplemen-  tary documentation, and arrived in Paris, When I  asked, in Paris, that the document should be published  and distributed, I was told that this was impossible,  as the services concerned had already left for New  Delhi; and that publication and distribution would take  place in New Delhi, That was how - I know not for  what reason - the document was circulated here, as  you say, "through error"; but had it been possible to  distribute it in time in Paris, there v'ould have been  no objection, I, at any rate, object to its being  withdrawn,
(21) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  If no other delegate wishes to speak, I think we should  take a vote, as I do not feel that the President himself  is empowered to rule that a document which has been  distributed to the Conference shall be withdrawn. The  Conference should therefore vote affirmatively for the  withdrawal of the document, and negatively for its  retention. We will take a vote,  The result of the voting is as follows: for the withdrawal  of the document, 21; for the retention of the document, 14;  abstentions, 15, Therefore,inaccordance with the  wishes of the majority, the document will be withdrawn.   PLENARY  The meeting was suspended at 4.15 p.m. and re-  sumed at 5.50 p.m.  REPORT OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE AND ELECTION OF  THE PRESIDENT AND TEN VICE-PRESIDENTS OF THE  GENERAL CONFERENCE
(22) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  The Nominations Committee has met and elected as  its Chairman the representative of Argentina, Mr.  Eduardo Mallea, who will present the Committee's  report, In connexion with that report, it must be  stated that three of the Committees mentioned have  already met: the Committee on Reports of Member  States, the Credentials Committee, and the Head-  quarters Committee, -  I call upon the Chairman of the Nominations Com-  mittee, the delegate of Argentina, Mr. Mallea.
(23) Mr. MALLEA (Argentina) {Chairman of the  Nominations Committee) (Translation from the  Spanish): Mr, President and delegates, I have the  honour to place before the Conference the proposals,  unanimously approved by the Nominations Committee,  for the officers of the ninth session of the General  Conference, taking into account the recommendations  made by the Executive Board in accordance with Rule
30 of the Conference's Rules of Procedwe. The pro-  posals are as follows: for the President of the ninth  session, the honourable delegate of India, Maulana  Abul Kalam Azad.
(24) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  With the permission of the Chairman of the Nomina-  tions Committee, I would ask the delegete of India,  who has just been elected unanimously and by acclama-  tion, in accordance with the report of the Nominations  Committee, to take the Chair. I call upon the repre-  sentative of India.
(25) Mr. SAIYIDAIN (India): Mr. President and dis-  “nguished delegates, the delegation of India and my  couniry are deeply conscious of the very high honour  that has ben done by electing the leader of the Indian  delegation as tie President of this Conference. On  account of unavoidable circumstances entirely beyond  his control it is not possible for him to be present  here at the moment but no doubt he will be here at the  morning meeting tomorrow, when he will expresa his  own personal thanks to you much more warmly than I  can do on his behalf,
(26) The PRESIDENT {Translation from the Spanish):  In that case, I shall ask the Chairman of the Nomina-  tions Committee to read out the nominations for the  Vice- Presidents,
(27) Mr. MALLEA (Argentina) (Chairman of the  Nominations Committee) (Translation from the  Spanish): They are as follows {in French alphabetical  order): Federal Republic of Germany, Brazil,  Ecuador, United States of America, France, Indonesia,  Iran, Liberia, Pakistan and Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics.
(28) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the Spanish):  MEETINGS
1-3  If there {is no objection, the list of Vice-Presidents  just read out will be taken as approved, Approved,
1 wil! ask Dr, Hallstein, the delegate of the Federal  Republic of Germany and first in alphabetical order  in the list of Vice- Presidents elected, to take the  Chair at inls meeting.  (l4r, Halistein (Federal Republic of Germany) took  the Chair. )
(29) The PRESIDENT: Fellow delegates, it is an  alphabetical accident that I have to take over the bur-  den of this function. 1 first call on the representative  of Denmark,
(30) Mr, NIELSEN (Denmark); Mr, President, fel-  low delegates, we have now elected as Preisent of our  Conference a representative of our host country, and  even if hé is not in the Chair at this moment one of  our Vice-Presidents replaces him,  But at this moment I wish to remind you that Sefior  Zavala Muniz of Uruguay has borne the burden of  President of the General Conference for more than  two years, ever since we had that unforgettable ses-  sion of the General Conference in Montevideo, which  for many of us was an admirable occasion to learn  something about that vast continent of South America.  You all know that one of the connecting links between  one session of the General Conference and another is  the fact that the President of a General Conference in  reality contirues to function over the two years to the  next session, We have, indeed, at this particular  session of the General Conference, imposed on the  President of our last Conference the special burden of  leading our discussions here for two full days, besides  the functions he has had {n different social arrange-  ments, where he once more represented the Organiza-  tion of the Member States of Unesco as distinct from  the Secretariat. He also took upon himself the task  of accompanying the Executive Board on a two-day  visit to Pakistan before this Conference opened and  before the Board opened its session here in Delhi, and  he did so even if questions of health at some moments  made it difficult for him to perform his functions and  to stand the strain of travelling through the country  and visiting a great number of institutions which gave  us a wonderful occasion to learn something also abcut  the neighbouring countries of India.  I think we should at this moment express our deep  satisfaction at seeing him regaining his strength; and,  with your permission, Mr. President, I would like to  propose a vote of thanks by this General Conference  to Sefior Zavala Muniz.
(31) The PRESIDENT: 1 think by your applause you  have approved this motion. I call upon the delegate  of Cuba. ;
(32) Mr. CHEDIAK (Cuba) (Transiation from the  Spanish): I have asked permission to speak in order  to explain the vote which I cast when the appointments  of the President and Vice-Presidents of this ninth  session of the General Conference were unanimously  approved.  It is gratifying to me that the previous speaker  should have paid so just and well merited a tribute,  with which 1, of course associaie myself, to the   n-3  President who has just laid down his office, and es-  pecially that he should have made the reference thaï  he did to a country of the American continent which  has made so outstanding a contribution to the advance-  ment of Unesco's cause,  Moreover, as a man of that continent, I cannot fail  to express my great pleasure and satisfaction that  two other distinguished colleagues, representing two  sister countries of South America - Brazil and  Ecuador - should have been appointed Vice- Presidents  of this Conference, At the same time, I would like,  in all honesty, to make an observation with regard to  the future - and in this I am not in the least actuated  by personal interest, particularly as I am not the  leader of my country's delegation, but merely an  ordinary member of it, I think that, in the future,  regard should be had to the geographical representa-  tion prescribed by Rule 38, paragraph 2, of the Rules  of Procedure, which provides that the Vice- Presidents  shall be so elected as to ensure the representative  character of the General Committee - provides, that  is to say, for equitable geographical distribution,  Let us not forget that America is a large continent  divided geographically into three parts - North, Centre  and South, The area to which my country belongs is  known geographically, as the Caribbean region, or  Central America. Certain delegations, like those of  El Salvador, Panama, Haiti, Nicaragua, Honduras,  etc., are not represented among the Vice-Presidents;  and I simply wish to make that reservation in order  that it may be taken into account in the future, with-  out in any way detracting from the acclamation or  from the unanimous vote in which I joined with my  colleagues.
(33) The PRESIDENT:  Haiti.  I call upon the delegate of
(34) Mr. LIAUTAUD (Haiti) (Translation from the  French): Mr, President c/4 fellow delegates, the  Republic of Haiti, which 1 have the honour to repre-  sent at this important Unesco Conference, cannot be  indifferent to the words which have just been spoken.  But first of all we would like to associate ourselves  with the tribute paid to the outgoing President, who  directed the work of the eighth seasion at Montevideo
80 admirably, and helped in organizing the present,  ninth session.  The Republic of Haiti cannot, I repeat, remain in-  different to the observation which has just been made,  namely that the American continent is a vast one and  that the area to which we belong is not represented  among the Vice-Presidents, Nevertheless, in the  interests of solidarity, we made a point of joining in  the unanimous vote; but we are confident that, for  the future, the observation will be taken into account.
32  PLENARY MEETINGS  APPOINTMENT OF THE CHAIRMEN OF COMMISSIONS  AND COMMITTEES  {35) The PRESIDENT: 1 should like to make the fol-  lowing proposal, It would be convenient if the Chair-  men of the Programme and Administrative Commis-  slons could be appointed at once. In the first place,  the membership of the General Committee would in  this way be completed; in the second place, the  Chairmen of those Commissions could then prepare  thelr work in advance, so that when the Commissions  actually meet for this work, they would be able to  move ahead,  The Nominations Committee must submit sugges-  tions to the Conference, This Committee has met and  .has also made suggestions for the chairmanship of the  Cornmissions. However, instead of convening the  Commissions separately, in order to carry out an  election of their respective Chairmen, I propose to  adopt the procedure used by Unesco at previous ses-  sions of the General Conference, After we have heard  the report of the Nominations Committee, and the sug-  gestions for the chairmanship of the two Commissions,  I shall then formally adjourn this meeting of the ple-  nary Conference, and while we request the delegations  to remain in their places, I shall then formally con-  vene the Programme Commission, and act as its  temporary Chairman, and ask the Commission to elect  its permanent Chairman, We shall adjourn that Com-  mission and take up the Administrative Commission  in the same way, thereby completing the procedure  of electing the Chairmen. The election of the Chair-  man of the Legal Committee will take place on  Thursday. Now if there are no objections to this pro-  cedure, I will call upon the Chairman of the Nomina-  tions Committee.
(36) Mr. MALLEA (Argentina) (Chairman of the  Nominations Committee) (Translation from the Span-  ish): The Nominations Committee also approved today  the following proposals for the chairmanship of Com-  missions: Chairman of the Programme Commission,  Mrs. Alva Myrdal, Sweden; Chairman of the Admini-  strative Commission, Dr. Gardner Davies, Australia;  Chairman of the Advisory Committee on Programme  and Budget, Dr, Concepcién Aguilé, of the Philip-  pines; and Chairman of the Legal Committee, Mr.  Akira Matsui, of Japan.  As Mr. Zavala Muniz, as President, announced,  the Chairmen of the Committee on Reports of Member  States, the Credentials Committee and the Head-  quarters Committee have already been elected,  Finally, this afternoon, Mr. Leonard W. Brockington,  of Canada, was appointed Vice-Chairman of the  Nominations Committee.
(37) The PRESIDENT: I shall now, following the  proposal I have made and you have accepted, formally  adjourn this meeting of the plenary Conference.  The meeting rose at 6 p.m.