9 November 1956, at 4. 30 p. m.  Chairman: Mr. DAVIES (Australia)  ITEM 13,3 oF TuE AGENDA ; MEDICAL BENEFITS SCHEME  (continued) (document 9C/ADM/9 and Corrigendum)
(1) Miss LAISE (United States of America), referring  to her previous reniarks to the effect-that she believed  the personnel employed in connexion with the Medical  Benefits Scheme should be included in the staff of  Unesco for purposes of calculating the staff level, sug-  gested that, as the principle involved referred also to  the personnel of the Unesco Coupon Scheme and the  Publications Fund, and ag the Conference was to .  decide whether the’ Coupon Scheme was to be contimued  or not, further discussion should be postponed until .  after such decision had been taken. She further sug-  gested that, in the interval, the Secretariat should  prepare a document setting out the merits and de-  merits of her proposal.
(2) The ‘CHAIRMAN remarked that, owing to stadt :  problems, the Secretariat had difficulty in preparing  additional documents during the Conference, He  added that, from what had already been said, any  document produced by the Secretariat would consist  largely of listing the demerits of following the pro-  posal of the United States delegate.  (a) The Admintatrative Commission agreed to doter  its decision on item 13.3 of the agenda until after the  Programme Commission had made a recommendation  with regard to the Unesco Coupon Scheme and the  Publications Fund.  REPORT OF THE LEGAL COMMITTEE ON ITEM 14.3  OF THE AGENDA (document 9C/ADM/ 16)
(4) Mr. REININK (Netherlands) (Rapporteur of the  Legal  Committns) prosonted the Committee’s sopart.  res  by the Joy i à  ments. He asked for comments on the Legal ‘Com-  mittee's. opinion on the interpretation of Article V,  paragraph 3, ot the Constitution, contained in para-  graphs 6-7 of the report, ; .
(6) Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia) did not think that the  Committee's report concerning its opinion on the  interpretation of Article V, paragraph 3, of the
560  Constitution given by the General Conterence at its,  eighth session was complete. . During the meeting’ ol  the Legal Committee when that point was under dis- |  cussion, the Legal Adviser had said that, at the olghth  session, it had been verbelly agreed that although the  interpretation had to be applied in general terms, it  would still be posaible in the future to redress indi-  vidual cases of injustice by means of constitutional  amendments. He agked for clarification on that point,
(7) Mr, SABA (Legai Adviser) explained that para-  graphs 5, 6 and-7, (document 9C/ADM/16) on which the  Commission was called upon to reach a decision, re-  ferred only to the interpretation to be placed on Article  V, paragraph 3, of Constitution, as it stood... How-  ever, in its recent debates; the Legal Committee had.  confirmed the interpretation it had. placed upon that ;  Article at the eighth session of the General Conference.  That interpretation was to the effect that any expired  term served by a member of the Executive Bogrd  should be; taken’ into. account, in determining; his re-  eligibility, any fraction of a term being considered  equivalent to a full term. . Mr. Saba invited ‘members  of the Commission who desired firther details to refer  to the minutes of the Legal Committee's : sixth meeting  in Montevideo, and read out sgraphs 66 and 72 of  those minufey (document 80/Proceedings, page | 300),  Mr. Saba tdmitted hat, as interpreted by the Legal  Committee; Arficlé;V,. paragraph 3, of the Constitution  might give rise do injustices. - The only remedy, -in the  view of the Legel Committee, ‘was to “amend the Con-,  stitution. - At the moment, . however, discussion'relaed  only to the existing. text of Article V, paragraph 3, and  only later would the Administrative Commission be _  required to take a decision on the draft amendments to  the Constitution which the Legal Committee had studied.
(8). The CHAIRMAN said ‘that It was quite clear that,  if the Commission adopted paragraphs 5-7 of the Legal  Committee's report, it would be recommending that,  fa member of the Executive Board had served two  terms tn office, ‘he should not be eligible for re-  election even if those two terms had not been full length.
(8) The Administrative Commission adopted para-  graphs 5-7 of the Legal Committee's report.
(10) Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia) was strongly opposed to  the decision which ad just been takes: by the Commisaton.  Proposed 8 armehdment submitted by ‘the ‘Government of  Liberia to'the | proposed amendments submitted jointly.  by the Govéfnments of France ‘añd Japan | to, Article V  of the Constitution (documents 9C/ADM/21 ‘Addendum,  paragraphs 8-11 of document 9C/ADM/16)
(11) Mr. MASSAQUOI (Libéria) remarked that, in   ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  spite of the' Commission's decision to confirm the  Legal Committee's opinion on the interpretation of  Article V, paragraph 3, of the Constitution given by  the General Conference at its eighth session, his  Government reserved the right to propose an amend-  ment to the amendments proposed by thé Governments  of France and Japan, with a view to redressing injus-  tices which had arigen as a result of the application,  in general terms, of Article V of the Constitution.  The Legal Committee had reached its conclusion  regardless of the fact that some members of the  Board had been elected at the seventh’ session of the  General Conference, whereas others had not been  elected until the extraordinary session held in 1953,  The fact that the Governments of Thailand and Japan  had already proposed candidates for election to the  new Executive Board showed that governments other  than that of Liberia felt that it was unjust to exclude,  sy members, those who had not served a full two  terms.  The Govèrnment of Liberia had proposed its amend-  ment to redress an injustice. It hid had to confine  iteelf to ont particular case, but its proposal referred  to a whole category of cases. There was a question of  principle involved, namely, whether or. not the Con-  stitution, which was couched in general terms, could  be amended to provide , for an individual case, In the  view of his Government, . any law which did not contain  a provision allowing for its amendment to meet such  cases was ultra vires. -  He asked for a vote by roll-call on his Government's  proposed amendment,
(12) The CHAIRMAN remarked that no doubt had  existed as to the regularity of the amendmant proposed  by the Government of Liberia.
(13) Me, MATSUI rapa) à ajated that Mr, Higuiwara  and the Japanese Government would gladly undertake  not to take advantage of the fact that the Japanese  representative could be re- elected if the Liberian  amendment were ‘adopted. , Perhaps that statement  “would facilitate a “solution ¢ of the problem in relstion  to the Liberian defegate, with whom, on that point,  Japan had every syrapa  The’ Japanese, delegation thought; however, . ‘that, any  amendment to the Constitution should aim, not at pro-  yiding a solution to any individual case, but at laying  down rules for application in the most general possible  terms. If the Liberian proposal were put to the vote,  therefore, the Japanese delegation waild feel | obliged  to abstain.
(14) The CHAIRMAN said that, under Rule 84 of the  Rules of Procedure, a vote by roll-call ‘would be taken  at the request of two or more members, He asked  whether any delegation wished to support the request  of the delegaie of Liberia to have a vote by roll-call  on his Proposed amendment.
(15) Mr. ATTAGARA (Thatland) seconded the pro-  posal of the delegate of Liberia,
(16) The CHAIRMAN remarked that a two-thirds  ‘majority was required for « decision.  an The vote was taken by roll- call:
561  v-1  Voted in favour; Argentina, Byelorussian Soviet  Socialist Republic, Bulgaria; Chile, Czechoslovakia,  El Salvador, Haiti; Italy, Liberia, Mexico, Nepal,  Panama, Poland, Rumania, Spain, Thailand, Union  of Soviet Socialist Republics; Yugoelavia, :  Voted against: Australia; Belghim; C apada, -  Colombia, Finland,. Françe, India, Netherlands, New  Zealand, Norway, Sweden, United "Kingdom, Viet-Nam.  Abataineds. Afghanistan, Austria; Brazil, Federal  Republic of Germany, Guatemala, Iran, Japan, Korea,  Laos, Pakiston, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukrainian  Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Burma, United  States of Anierica, Venezuela. . .  Absent: Cambodia, Ceylon, Cuba, Denmark,  Dominican Republic,. Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia,  Hungary, Indonesia, Irag, Lebanon, Monaco, Nicar-  aqua, Saudi Arabia, Syria, Uruguey.
(18) The amendment submitted by the Liberian dele-  gate waa rejected, there being only 18 votes in favour,  with 13 against, 16 abstentions and 17 -* sent.  Amendment proposed jointly by the Governments of  France and Japan to Article V of the Constitution  (documents 9C/ADM/21, 9C/ADM/16) -
(19) The Administrative Commission apapimously  adopted the amendments to Article V of the Consti-  tution, proposed jointly by the Governments of France  and Japan.
(20) “Tye Administrative Commission unanimously  adopted the amendments to Rules 95 and 95A neces-  sitated by the adoption of the amendments to Article  V of the Conatitution, ;  Draft. amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the  General Conference (documents BC/ADM/12,
9C/ADM/16)
(21) Commenting on dogumeñnts ICIADNL on (gars:  graphs 12 and 13) and 9C/ADM/) SABA (Legal  Adviser) recalled that, ai its eighth session, the |  General. Conference had instructed the Executive  Board to ‘study. the improvements wisch might bé made  in the « organization and methods of work’ of ‘the General  Conference. . ;  On the basis of, the copies reachéd by ‘fhe  Spécial Committee which it had spioinied tô desl with  the question, the Executive Board had formulated  certain recommendations on the subject, tobe found  in document 9C/1, One of those recomimendations’  related to Rule 30 of the Rules of Procedure (Fuhe-  tions of the Nominations Committee); The Legal, . .  Committee had heard the staternent o 1 thd representative  of the Executive Board on ‘that pointe ‘eplainin/ that  thé proposed amendinént was inspired by the’ desice  to avoid the double election procedure which had so  for been followed in appointing’ méïnbers of, the Exècu-  tive Board, According to the, Board's. proposal, the  Nominations Committee would no létigèr have to vote’  on a list 6f candidates to be submitted to the Général  Conference. 1t Would nerely « distiibe Vie bominations  submitted and the principles to be foil)wed at thé time  of the election, in order to réport to ‘the General Con-  ference. Paragraph 18 of the Executive Board's re-  port (document 9C/'7) made the following recommendation:   v-1  "No ballot would be taken. The Committee should  include in its report all the nominations which had  been put forward and should merely formulate recom-  mendations on principles, with spécial reference to  fair geographical representation in the new member-  ship of the Board. : Thé General Conference would  proceed to elect the members, in plenary meeting,  in accordance with its Rules of Procedure". -  Mr. Saba added that the Legal Côminittee as a  whole had not wished to take a decision on the sub-  stance of the proposal, Some of its members, how-  ever, had put fcrward the view that any important  change in the voting procedure on the eve of the Execu-  tive Board elections might introduce a disturbing ele-  ment into the proceedings, and they had therefore sug-  geated that the consideration and possible adoption of  the proposal should be deferred until the end of the  current session.  It was now for the Administrative Commission to  come to a decision. The only opinion expressed by  the Legal Committee as such was that the terms in  which the Executive Board's proposal was formulated  satisfied the legal and procedural requirements.
(22) Mr. FRAGA IRIBARNE (Spain) agreed with the  Executive Board's view that the amendments should  not be approved before the question had been discussed,  unless the election were postponed. Some delegations  had not yet arrived and he thought it premature to take  any action on the proposed amendments to the Rules  of Procedure of the General Conference. With regard  to the substance of the proposals, he preferred to  refrain from any comment.
(23) The CHAIRMAN said that the suggestion to post-  pone consideration of the proposed amendments had  come from membars of the Legal Committee and not  from the Executive Board.
(24) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) favoured the Executive  Board's proposal. He thought, indeed, that the exist-  ing double election procedure did not give the Con-  ference sufficient guidance on the way it should vote  in order to ensure a fair geographical distribution of  seats and at the same time elect candidates possess-  ing all the necessary qualifications. He was con-  vinced that the procedure suggested by the Executive  Board would remedy that state of affairs and he recom-  mended its adoption.
(25) Mr. VEDOVATO (Italy) agreed with Mgr Maroua  and was ready to support the Board's proposal.
(26) Mr. DINCULESCU (Rumania) thought that the  adoption of the Exscutive Board's proposal would  result in a useful simplification of the existing pro-  cedure. He therefore announced that he also was pre-  pared to support the proposal,
(27) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) agreed with the  delegate of Lebanon. The amendment provided for a  simplification of procedure, which he thought should  be put into force straight away.
(28) The CHAIRMAN remarked that, if the Adminis-  trative Commission adopted the amendment, it would  be submitted to the General Conferente along with the    ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  other amendments to the Constitution and Rules of  Procedure and would become operative as soon as  the General Conference gave its approval.
(29) The Administrative Commission adopted the  proposed amendment to Rule 30 of the Rules of Pro-  cedure by 40 votes to 2, with 4 abstentions.  DRAFT REPORT OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  (documents 9C/ADM/PROV/1 and 9C/ADM/PROV/2)
(30) Mr, BAUGNIET (Belgium) (Rapporteur) read  out Part I of document 9C/ADM/PROV/2 (Scale of  Contributions of Member States for 1957-1958), He  also submitted to the Commission the draft resolu-  tion which had been prepared on the subject and  which was reproduced in section I of document
9C/ADM/PROV/1. It should be noted that in the third  line of paragraph 1 of the draft resolution (French  text) the words "a adopté" should be replaced by  "adoptera”,
(31) Referring to paragraph 9 at document .
9C/ADM/PROV/2, Mr, GOLUNSKY (Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics) said that, in his view, the pro-  posal of the Brazilian delegation was not ontirely  accurately reported in the draft report of the Admini-  strative Commission, He understood Mr. de  Berredo Carneiro to have proposed that the figures  in column 4 (b) of document 9C/ADM/3 Rev. , Adden-  dum 1, Corrigendum, should serve as a provisional  basis for. fixing the Unesco scale of contributions  until such time as the General Assembly of the United  Nations had worked out its own scale. Mr, de Berredc  Carneiro's intention, Mr. Golunsky thought, was that  the figures in the said column 4 (b) should be appended  by way of illustration, to the text of tha resolution  which the Rapporteur had just read out,
(32) Mr: ARTHUR (United Kingdom) aeked that the  words "to be" should be inserted after thé word  "contributions" in the third line of paragraph (1) of the  draft resolution, to make {t quite cleat that the scale  had not yet been adopted by the United Nations. He  noticed that, in document 9C/ADM/PROV/1, there  was a comma between 1956 and 1957 in paragraph (1),  whereas in paragraph 9 of document 9C/ADM/PROV/2  there was i hyphen, ‘He thought that the same for-  mula should be adopted throughout. Finally, he  asked whether it was necessary to include 1956 at all,  as the decision referred to the period 1957-1958.
(33) In reply, Mr, HARPER- SMITH (Comptroller)  said that the United Nations had already ‘adopted a  scale for 1956-1957-1958; a new scale was being  proposed to the General Assembly, which, if adopted,  would have retrospective effect. In his opinion,  Unesco would have to use the term "for 1956-1957-
1958" to make it quite clear to which scale it was  referring.
(34) After a further exchange of views, the Admini-  strative Commiasion adopted the first part of the  draft report and the corresponding resolution, ‘as  amended, by 44 votes to 0, with 1 abstention. - It was  understood that the Secretariat would obtain   ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  confirmation from Mr, Carneiro that he wished to  have the scale set out in column 4 (b) of document
9C/ADM/3 Rev., Addendum 1, Corrigendum, attached  as an Annex to the resolution, by way of illustration,  before the document was submitted to the General  Conference.
(35) Mr, BAUGNIET (Belgium) (Rapporteur) then  read out section II of document 9C/ADM/PROV/2  (Method of Financing the Budget for 1957-1958) and  the draft resolutions contained in sections II and III  of document 9C/ADM/PROV/1.
(36) Mr. MUNRO (Australia) approved the second’  part of the report and the first of the two resolutions.  He saw no reason for omitting the figure in paragraph
4 (b) of the second resolution, especially as a calcula-  tion of that figure was made further on in the resolu-  tion. In hia opinion, the Commission would not have  completed its task it it left the amount blank,’
(37) The CHAIRMAN informed the Commission that,  when the matter had been raised in thé General Com-  mittee, it had been agreed that the Administrative  Commission should not have the responsibility of  recommending a figure to the plenary meeting of the  General Conference. He drew the attention of the  Commission to document 9C/7, Annex 1, which set  out the procedure to be followed for fixing the total  budget figure. The General Committee had accepted  that procedure,
(38) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kirigdom) did not consider  that the resolution followed the décisions of the  Administrative Commission. He proposed that it be  replaced by à shorter resolution consisting of para-  graphs 3 and 4 of the suggested text, and thet an  Annex be attached to it showing how the Director-  General's budget would be set out on the basis of the  Commission's calculation.
(39) Mr. GOLUNSKY (Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-  lics) thought that the wording of paragraph 20 of  document 8C/ADM/PROV/2 should be brotight into  line with that of paragraph 4 (a) of the draft resolution  contained in section III of document 9C/ADM/FROV/1.  The same terms should be used in both texts; Mr.  Golunsky feared that the expression "undistributed  reserve" used in paragraph 20 of document 9C/ADM/  PROV/2 might be misinterpreted.
(40) The CHAIRMAN asked the Secretariat to make  the appropriate amendment to paragraph 20.  (an) The Administrative Commission requested Mr.  Arthur (United Kingdom) to draft, with the help of the  Secretariat, a resolution in the form he had indicated,  attaching thereto, for purposes of illustration, the  Commission's calculation concerning the structure  of the budget,
(42) Mr. GOLUNSKY (Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-  lic) proposed that, for considerations of logic, the  Commission's instructions concerning methods of  calculation should be included in the report which the  Commission was to submit to the General Conference,  instead of being appended to the text of the resolution.
(43) That proposal was adopted.
(44) Section II of document sc, /ADM/PROV/2 and the  draft resolution contained in stiction II of document
9C/ADM/PROV/1 were also approved.
(45) The Commission then adopted Mr. Arthur's sug-  gestion for the redrafting of the resolution reproduced  in section III of document 9C/ADM/PROV/1.
(46) In response to a suggestion from Mr. de HOOG  (Netherlands), who informed the Commission that he  had received his Government's instructions on its  position with regard to the right of China to vote at the  ninth session of the General Conference, the Admini-  strative Commission agreed to proceed with the dis-  cussion of that question immediately.  ITEM 12.2.1 OF THE AGENDA : RIGHT TO VOTE OF CHINA  (continuer) (documents 9C/ADM/4, 2c/ 12 Addendum)
(47) Mr. McCLINTOCK (United States of America)  thanked the delegate of China for the lucid explanation  he had given at thé previous ‘meeting of the reasons"  why his Government was in arrears of payment. At  three previous sessions of thé General Conference it  had been decided that China should be granted the right  to vote because delegates had been satiafied that non-  payment was due to circumstances beyond the Chinese  Government's control. He was satisfied that circum-  stances beyond that Government's control still pre-  vented it from making its payments, and saw no reason  for not according it the right to vote, as had been done  in the past.
(48) Mr, GOLUNSKY (Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-  Mes) declared that he had no intention of enlarging on  the political aspects of the question. Everyone knew  the views of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,  and there was no need for him to repeat in the Admini-  strative Commission arguments which the Soviet  representative had already put forward at the plenary  meeting.  Mr. Golunsky would confine himself to referring to  the text of Article IV, 8 of the Unesco Constitution,  which the Head of the Chinese délegation had quoted in  his letter of 9 November.  He pointed out that the amount owed by Kuoniintang  China’ was greatly in excees of thé amount which  authorized the’ General Conference by' virtue’ of Article  IV. 8(b) of thie Unesco Constitution, to ‘deprive that  country of voting rights. It was true that Article  IV, 8(c) stated that the General Conference. might ‘  nevertheless permit a Member State to vote’ when it  would normally be excluded under Article IV. 8(b), if  the Conference was satisfied that the failure to pay  was due to conditions beyond the control of the member  nation. However, in Mr. ‘Golunsky's view, the provi-  sions of Article IV. 8 (c) should be applied only. in  cases where the circumstances which prevented a  country from paying its contribution pünctuaily were  admitted to be exceptional, That was by no means  true of the Kuomintang group. Ever since the sixth  session of the General Conference, the arrears of ‘the  Kuomintang group had been increasing steadily, and it  was now clear to everyone that they would never be   v-7  paid off, To authorize Kuomintang China, in those :  conditions, to rétain her voting rights would, Mr,  Golunsky. thovght | j-bè according her privileged treat-  ment, and it would be contrary to the spirit of Article  IV.8 (c). Mr. Golunsky was thereiore categorically  opposed to the proposal to allow Kuomintang China to  retain her voting rights, and urged that the provisions  of Article IV. 8 ®) be rigorously applied to that  country. ‘ .
(49) Mr.  VEDOVATO (Italy) thought, personally, that  China's circumstances were indeed exceptions) and  that, in its case; the application of Article IV. 8 (c)  was particularly justified, since, in its letter of 9  November, the Chinese Government had just given  renewed proof of its goodwill, He therefore supported  the proposal that the Chinese delegation be allowed to  retain its right to vote.
(60) Mr. AVEROFF (Greece) also supported the pro-  posal because of the important contribution which  China, with its ancient civilization, could make to the  extension of culture.
(51) Mr. DINCULESCU (Rumania) agreed with the  delegate of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and  was totally opposed to the proposal in question:
(52) Mr. Nguyeh-QUANG- RINK (Viet Nain) said  that he sympathized in principle with the Chinese re-  quest, but he thought that, in thai matter, Unesco  should be guided by the attitude of the United Nations,  of which it was a Specialized Agency.
(53) Mr. SARMIENTO (Colombia) thought that China  should retain its right to vote as long as no unfavour -  able circumstances arose to prevent it.
(54) Mr, MALYSHEV (Byelorussian Soviet Socialist  Republic) was against acceding to the request of the  Kuomintang group, on the same grounds as the Soviet  delegate.
(55) A vote was taken by roll- call onthe proposal  that China be granted the right to vote: )  Voted ‘ti ‘tavour:” ‘Argentina, Midas! AUREL, :  Belgium, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Cuba,’ Ecuador,  El Salyador, France, Federal Republic of Germany,  Guatemala, Haiti; italy,’ Japan, Korea, Mexico,  Netherlands. New Zéuland, Pakistan, Panama, Spain,  Thailand, ‘Turkey, United Staten of America,  Venezia, Viet-Nam. = | ;  Voted ‘dgainst: Byelorus2ian Soviet Socialist Répub-  ie, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Norway, Poland,  Rumania, , Sweden, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic,  Union of Soviet Socialiat Republics, United Kingdom,  Yugoslavia,  ‘Abstathed: “Canada, India: Iran, Laos, Switzerland,  Foo  ruguay. 7 171  Abéenti “Atéasistes, Unitôn of Burma, Cambodia,  Ceyiok, Dentiark, Dominican Republic, Egypt,  Ethiopia, Fintärd, Hungary, Indoneaid, Israel,  Lebanon, Liberia, Monaco, Nepal, Nicaragua, Saudi  Arabia, Syria.  U
564  ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION
(56) The motion was adopted by 28 votes to 11, with
6 abstentions and 19 abaent,
(57). The CHAIRMAN informed the Commission that  he Lad not called the name of Greece because the  credentials of the Greek delegate had not yet been  approved by the Credentials Committee.  RIGHT TO VOTE OF PERU |
(58) Mr. FRAGA IRIBARNE (Spain) said that Peru  was in the same position as China with regard to the  right to vote. The casé was a special one, which, in.  his opinion, could be settied immediately, since,  according to the Peruvian delegation, the necessary  sum had already been deposited in a Paris bank. .
(59) Mr. 'HARPER- SMITH (Comptroller) informed  the Commission that authority had been given by the  Peruvian Government for the amount due to be paid.  As soon as notification was received that payment had  been lodged in the bank, Peru would automatically  have the right | to vote. An announcement would be  made to the plenary meeting of the General Conference  as soon as Peru was allowed to vote.
(60) Mr, JOCHAMOWITZ (Peru). said that he y was most  anxioug to clear up the matter, though he had no. inten-  tion of provoking a debate. . China had obtained a.  favourable decision in spite of the fact that it owed a  large amount of money, and-he thought that the same  treatment should be given to Peru, which owed a very  small sum, That sum, moreover, according to infor -  mation recently received, had already been deposited  in Paris by his Govérnment.
(61) Âtter £3 discussion, during Which the deidgiten of  Chile, EI Saivador, ‘Spdin ‘and the Unioä of Soviet’  Socialist Républ{cs spoke in favour’ of allowing ‘ thé  Peruvian ste the right to vote, thé peter 0  could vote, roi the statement of the delegate of Peru .  be considered as indicating thaf payment had been mide,  and authorize the Diréctor-General to list Peru ‘among  the delegations having the right to vote. Confirmation  of payment would, of course, be required eventually.’  He pit to the vote a motion that the statement of the  delegate of Peru be interpreted as a notification of  payment.
(62) The miotior was adopted by 31 votes to o, with 3  abatentions. ’
(63) Mr, ADISESHIAH (Assistant Diréétor- General)’  told the Commission that hé had waitéd for a decision  by thé Commission on whether’ the statément of the  delegate of Peru’ constituted a notification of payméat.  The position under thé Financial Rulés was quite clear  and it was for the Director-General to decide when  payment had in fact been made; the present decision  in no way affected that procedure. ’  The meeting rose at 7.45 p.m: