IV-24 PROGRAMME COMMISSION  TWENTY - FOURTH MEETING
28 November 1956, at 9, 30 a,m,  Chairman:  ITEM 9.1 OF THE AGENDA : EDUCATION (continued.  (documents 9C/6 and Addenda and Corrigends)
1,1 Co-operation with international organizations and  institutions (continued) (paragraphe © to 32 and  documents 9C/DR/53, 9C/DR/54)
(1) Mr, SAIYIDAIN (India) believed it was important  to raise certain general considerations in an atternpt  to clarify the situation existing in respect of subven-  tions to organizations and institutions. There wus no  doubt that most of the organizations concerned vere  doing good work, but that did not in itself justify’  Unesco's granting small subventions to all of them.  Naturally neither the Secretariat nor delegations liked  to refuse requests for assistance and he felt that the  amount allocated to one particular organization or  another was nat entirely unrelated to the lobbying that  might have taken place. Indeed, certain glaring  anomalies had resulted, which Unesco would do well  to study.  He would accordingly suggest that the Directoe-  General bé requested to look into the matter and to  report thereon, after consultation with the Executive  Board, to the General Conference at its tenth session,  taking special account of the following points: a full  record of the organization's achievements; whether  the organization had adequate funds from other  sources which justified continued Unesco assistance;  whether the organization was truly international or  non-gectarian in character; whether the preciss  purpose for which the grant would be wtilizdd was in  keeping with Unesco's aims, and whether such assist-  ance was being distributed in accordance with regional  needs.
(2) The CHAIRMAN then put to the vote the resolutions  contained in the section.
(3) Resolution 1.11 was unanimously sdopted.
(4) The draft amendment to resolution 1. 13, submitted  by the Liberian delegation (document 9C/53), was  adopted by 36 votes to none, with 1 abstention.
(5) Resolution 1.12, as amended, was adopthd, with
1 abstention.
(6) The CHAIRMAN noted that the commission had  before it, in connexion with project 1.121, (A) Subven-  tions, à proposal by the French delegation that the two  organisations mentioned in paragraphs 18 and 20, i.e.  the Joint Committee of International Teachers' Federa-  tions and the World Confederation of Organizations of  the Teaching Profession, should, as à matter of prin-  ciple and without regard to the actual funds  involved, share equally any subvention granted to
438     Mrs. MYRDAL (Sweden)  them. That proposal had been duly seconded,
(7) The proposal was adopted by 16 votes to 14, with
3 abstentions.
(8) Mr. CHASE (Bureau of Programme and Budget)  said that, so far, the effect of the Commission's  decisions had been to increase the Director-General's  proposals, as contained in documents 9C/5 and Corri-  gendum 1, by $193,600, $44,250 of which related to  items which were not included in the Director-Genersl's  proposals for the utilization of the additional $1,000,000.
(9) The CHAIRMAN invited the Commission to decide  upon the various proposals before it for changes in the  budgetery implications of the section.
(10) The Indiah proposal, seconded by the German  delegation, to increase the aubvention for the New  Education Fellowship from $2,000 to $2,500 for both
1957 and 1958 (paragraph 14) was rejected by 10 votes  to 9, with 21 abstentions.
(11) The Belgian propdsai, seconded by the Austrian  delegation, to restore the annual reduction of $1,000  for the International Federation of Organizations for  School Correspondence and Exchanges (paragraph 15)  was rejected by 13 votes to 11, with 16 abstentions.
(12) Mr. AVIDOR (Israel) said he would welcome the  adoption of a recommendation in respect of paragraph
18, relating to the Joint Committee of International  Teachers! Federations, to the effect that Unesco's  contribution to that organization should not exceed the  amount it obtained from other sources.
(13) Mr. GUITON (Acting Director, Department of  Education) said that the total budget of the Joint  Committee was approximately $2,500.
(14) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) thought the Israeli  delegate's proposal might lead to the rescinding of the  decision the Commission had just taken with regard to  the division of funds between thé Joint Committee and  the World Confederation of Organizations of the  Teaching Profession, He pointed out that the Joint  Committee represented three major teachers' organi-  zations which received no subventions from Unesco;  the appropriations shown in paragraph 18 therefore  representad an indiract subvention to them.  He explained thet the French delegation's proposal  was that, of the total of $8,000 which Unesco was  allocating to those two organizations, $4,000 should  go to the Joint Committee and $4,000 to the WCOTP.
(15) The CHAIRMAN considered that it would be hardly  practicable to entertain the motion presented by the  delegate of Israel, in view of the decision just taken by   PROGRAMME COMMISSION  the Commission to accept the French proposal that  funds be allocated equally between paragraphs 18 and
(16) Mr, WEEDEN (Australia) said that a twotald  problem was involved: the question of 8’ subvention  to develop available resources, and the bert way of  giving assistance when resources were at a minimum  level. It was his delegations view that the latter  case could better be met by granting coûtracts to  organizations for giving effect té schemes which would  further the purposes of Unesco, rather than by simply  allocating a subvention.
(17) The French prcposal for an annual subvention of  $8,000 to be divided equally between the Joint Commit-  tes of International Teachers' Federations and the  World Confederation of Orgarizations of the Teaching  Profession was adopted by 32 votes to 8, with 9  abatentions.
(18) The CHAIRMAN then called attention to the  Director-Gengral's proposal, contained in document
9C/5 Corrigendum 4, to allocate a total subvention of  $10,000 for 1957-1988 to the World Federation of  United Nations Associations.
(1e) That proposal was adopted by 39 votes to 1, with
(20) Mr, FRANCOIS (France) formally moved that the  subventicn to the Unesco Institute for Youth be restored  to the previous amount of $32,000, It would be a mistake  to reduce Unesco's aid to that institute just at the time  when its activities were developing very promisingly,
(21) Thé French proposal, duly seconded, to increase  the subvention to the Unesco Institute for Youth,  Gautiig, under paragraph 22, by $7,000 each year was  sdopted by 28 votes to 6, with 18 abstentions.
(22) The CHAIRMAN called atiention to the draft  resolution submitted by the delegation of Liberia  {document 9C/DR/54), relating to paragraph 27.
433) Mr. GUITON (Acting Director, Department of  Education) stated that the Secretariat had no objection  to the proposal contained in document 9C/DR/ 54.
(24) Mr. HACQUAERT (Belgluni) inquired whether  the membership of the WCOTP included university  teachers. He thought those teachers generally  belonged to the International Association of University  Professors and Lecturers.
(28) Mr, QUITON (Acting Director, Department of  Education) replied that university teachers in many  countries, especially in Asia, belonged to the WCOTP.
(36) The CHAIRMAN sald that the Liberian draft  resolution could be inserted at the end of the penulti-  mate sentence in paragreph 27. There would be no  need to vote on that proposal, ss it constituted a  suggestion to the Secretariat for a work plan.  She recalled that the draft resolution sponsored  jointly by Austria, Indonesia and Italy, recommending  an increase in contracts under paragraph 27 (document
9C/DR/104), had not been daemed receivable by the  General Committee in view of the date of its sub-  mission. The motion had been reiutroduced from the  floor, but she ruled that the Commission should not  consider it,
1.2 Clearing House and Advisory Services  (paragraphs 33 to 77)
(27) The CHAIRMAN noted that no suggestions for  changes had been made, thus implying acceptance of  the Director-General's original proposals.
(28) Resolutions 1.21 and 1.22 were adopted  unanimously.
1.3 Pre-School and School Education (paragraphs 78  to 136 and documénts 9C/PRG/27 and 9C/DR/10, 11,
12, 43, 61 and 101)
(29) The CHAIRMAN called attention to the important  changes to that section of the budget, shown in docu-  ment 9C/5 Corrigendum 1, as well as to the various  draft resolutions submitted.
(30) Mrs, SAUNTE (Denmark) said that the Danish  National Commission had pointed to the need for  greater emphasis to be laid in future on the question  of education for women. The sème view had been  expressed by the Executive Board (cf. document 9C/5  Addendum 1, page 13),  While she "would welcome some reasgurance from  the Director-General that Unesco was in fact carrying  out effective work in that field, she had some doubt as  to whether that could really be said to be the case,  There was no doubt that the problem wes à vast and  complex one but none the less it was to be regretted  that some projects had been dropped and that the post  of a staff member in the Department of Education  relating to the education of women still remained to be  filled. Furthermore, the reports of Member States  included practically no reference to women's education.  Much was said about the importance of teaching human  rights; one of those rights was non-discrimination on  gr so sex,  She reçalled that the Commission had been informed  that the Department of Social Sciences was discontinu-  ing its study of women's rights, as the subject was too  difficult; furthermore, the Director of the Department  of Education had made no reference so far to the  problem of women's education. It was essential that  Unesco should go beyond merely stating the need for  improvement in that respect, and that Member States  themselves should urge the Organization to undertake  action as, without such requests, the Organization  would not be able to make any effective contribution  to solying the problem. .  She would not introduce any draft resolution on the  subject but would be giad if the Director-General  could make a statement indicating that the importance  of women's education would be borne in mind in  preparing Unesco's programme, The International  Council of Women and the International Federation of  University Women had expressed interest in the work  of Unesco and were ready to work with the Organiza-  tion. It was desirable that Uneaco, for its part, '  should give its backing to such organizations in arranging   v-a4 PROGRAMME  seminars on relevant subjects. She recalled that the  previous Director-General had once said that more  than 50 per cent of the women in the world were  illiterate, Unesco could not close its eyes to such a  challenge,
(31) Mr, SAIYIDAIN (India), commenting on para-  graph 106, felt that the school curriculum should not  be too technical but should concentrate on material  with baslo significance and of modern interest; it  should eliminate outmoded material; it should also  seek to promote international understanding and could  be linked with Major Project 4A. That same major  project for mutual understanding of Eastern and  Western cultural values should also be emphasized in  connexion with the improvement of textbooks, referred  to in paragraph 113, He commended the associated  schools project for international understanding  mentioned in paragraphs 120 to 126, but felt that five  tellowshipa in connexion with auch a project were  insufficient, Cn  Participation in Member States' activities (para-  graphs 131 to 133) required, in his view, clearer  definition; Unesco should not enter into fields where  its participation was not essential, and the problem of  priorities should be faced, While Unesco, as à co-  ordinating body, was committed to many of the acti-  vities listed, it should seek to make full use of  existing national and international agencies in parti-  cular spheres and should not necessarily finance  special projects as such. By concentrating on a few  projects of major significance, the impact of its  participation would be all the greater.
(32) Mr. KAUL (Internatiohal Labour Organisation)  suggested that a reference to collaboration with the  other Specialized Agencies be included in the pre-  amble to resolution 1.32.
(33) Begum Wahid KHAN (International Alliance of  Women) was grateful for the opportunity of addressing  the meeting. Co  Her organization was keenly concerned with the  problem of providing equal educational opportunities  for women in the 36 countries with which it concerned  itself, in many of which education was most inadequate  in spite of statutory provisions. She heartily endorsed  the remarks of the delegate of Denmark, and urged  Unesco to take action in that regard. ;  She recalled that at the Fifth Conference of Non-  Governmental Organizations, held the previous June,  a resolution had beén adoptet expressing regret that  Unesco had abolished the section in its budget relating  to equality of education for women, and asking for a  special chapter to be included in the 1957-1058 budget.  It such a suggestion were not practicable with regard  to that budget, she requested that the matter be given  consideration in respect of the programme and budget  for 1959-1960.
(34) Mr. VITO (italy) agrued that the principle of  equality of educational opportunity for men and  women should be proclaimed.  He also thought that co-operation between primary  school teachers and social workers was essential for  the existence and development of primary education.  Schools should be more and more closely integrated
440  COMMISSION  with the community, and teachers could not know their  pupils or ascertain the causes of absenteeism without  going into their homes. On the other hand, teachers  could not take charge of all out-of-achool activities  singlehanded, They had to have the assistance of  trained social workers. It would therefore be  expedient to add to paragraph (B) of resolution 1,32  an amendment authorizing the Director-General to  draw Member States’ attention to the need for colla-  boration between teachers and social workers, to  organize an international seminar to discuss the  subject, and to promote the establishment of institutes  for training social workers for schools in all States,
(35) Mrs, MEHTA (India) agreed that the question of  women's education was of the utmost importance,  She was unable to commend the Executive Board in  that respect, ss she felt that it had accomplished but  little. She would emphasize the difference between  establishing the right of access to education for women  and actually providing educational opportunities.  The disparity between men's and women's education  in the underdeveloped countries was so great that  particular emphasis on the latter was necessary in  order to bring them into line. In India, for instance,  women constituted only one quarter of those enrolled  for education; in other underdeveloped countries, the  situation was even worse, There was a shortage of .  institutions, teachers and technical personnel, and  that would appear to be a field where Unesco could  give some assistance. She hoped that the Executive  Board would consider the matter and would submit a  concrete programme for activities in connexion with  furthering education for women.
(36) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) thought Unésco's pro-  gramme for education should be more compact, and -  that the fields of activity listed in paragraphs 93'to
130 were too varied. The same applied to the activi-  ties listed in paragraph 133 Under the heading "Parti-  cipation in Member States’ activities". The Education  programme should, he thought, be planned under three  main headings: clearing house and advisory services;  the literacy campaign; and education for international  understanding ard teaching about human rights.  Unesco's programme for education in that field . |  provided only for some participation in Member States’  activities (paragraph 133), efforts to improve Western  school pupils' knowledge of the East and vice versa  (paragraph 113), development of "teaching about the  United Nations and human rights" (paragraphs 117 to
119), and a project on "associated schools projects in  education for international understanding" (paragraphs
120 to 126). The appropriations for the last-named  project, which was making extremely good progress,  were far too small: $16,000 for 1957 and $5,000 for
1088, .  On the other hand, Mr, François noted tat increa-  sing emphasis was béing laid on the programmé of  Participation in Member States’ activities, and  regretted that Unesco should be becoming a fund-  distributing agency, té the detriment of general  activities, For instance, out of the total of $183,000  in 1957 and $198,000 in 1958 allocated to pre-school  and school education {apart from staff costs),  $105,000 were to be spent each year on the  programme of Participation in Member States’   PROGRAMME COMMISSION  activities; that was too high a proportion.
(37 Mr, ESTABLE (Uruguay) said that his delegation  wished to make a proposal closely related to the point  unde. discussion, with reference to paragraph 86, draft  resolution 1,31, section (B), The Uruguayan delegation  proposed the insertion of a new paragraph authorizing  the Director-General to hold a competition for pre-  paring a study of the various acceptations and inter-  pretations of human rights. The text chosen should  then be distributed to Member States in their own  languages, with à view to the publication of a book  dealing comprehensively with the theme of human  rights, for use in schools.  In support of his scheme, the Uruguayan delegate  said that everyone should know what human rights  were, and suggested that each government in sympathy  with the scheme should undertake to publish the book,  which the Organization would appoint a specialist to  prepare. In that way, all countries would have a  textbook on the rights of man on which to base the  moral training of the rising generation.
(38) Mr, GIVENS (United States of America) said that,  in general, he approved the resolutions and the work  plan and did not think that the dispersal of activities  was such as {o, warrant the concèrn expressed by the  delegate of France. His delegation was, however,  anxious that there should be no further dispersal  caused by the draft resolutions before the Commission.  He had been particularly interested in the remarks  of the Indian delegate, and his delegation would like to  see the Director-General take advantage of every  opportunity to encourage the education of women. It  would also like to see stress laid on projects concern-  ing international understanding. He agreed with the  Indian delegation that work in that field could be further  strengthened by making full use of other sources, such  as'co-ordination with the United Nations Technical  Assistance Programme, He would welcome some  reference to health education and to co-ordination of  activities in that field with other United Nations  agencies.
(39) Mr. KOVAL (Ukrainian Soviet Socialist  Republic) said that some countries alr had wide  experience in the field of vocational and technical  training, which could be most helptul to the under-  developed countries. He recommended that Unesco  publish a book on vocational and technical training in  various countries, on the basis of information  collected and supplied by the National Commissions.  It would not involve great expense, and could be  published in 1958. ;  Mr. Koval approved the statements of the Danish  and Indian représentatives on the subject of the edu-  cation of girls. His country had solved that problem  and had made education compulsory for girls as well  as bays, The period of compulsory schooling had  been extended from seven years to ten. In the  universities, there were at least as many women  students ap men.
(40) Mr, ZIMIN (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics)  thought the work done by Uneaco on school curricula  and textbooks very satisfactory, although the pru-  gramme was still too limited and should be extended.
441  IV -24  It had been shown at the meeting of the International  Advisory Committee on the School Curriculum that  various countries were facing certain practical prob-  lems which required an immediate solution. - It should  be noted that the Committee consisted at the moment  of ten members only, which was not énoughj repres-  entatives of Scandinavia and South East Asia should  be added, Furthermore, Article 111, paragraph 2, of  the statutes of that Committee, stipulating that three  of the members were to serve for one year, and four  for two years, needed changing. That arrangement  was bound to hinder the Committee's work, and its  members should serve for à minimum of two years,  Mr. Zimin agreed with what had been said about the  education of women, He thought it should be stated  that the appropriations for Participation in Member  States‘ activities should be used for the development  of free and compulsory primary education, more  particularly for girls.  He did not agree with the French representative  that the appropriations for Participation in Member  States' activities were too high, for many countries  had very extensive needs. The major project on  primary education in Latin America was certainly very  useful, but Unesco's aid should also benefit many other  countries where primary education was still in the  initial stages of development.
(41) Mr, MATIC (Yugoslavia) had two suggestions to  make with regard to the themes for International  Conferences on Public Education in the coming years.  He proposed that those conferences, should discuss  the community's participation in the work, lite and  administration of schools; and physical training in  schools, He asked the Unesco representative on the  Joint Unesco-IBE Committee to pass on his proposals.
(42) Mr. GUITON (Acting Director, Department of  Education), replying to the Yugoslav representative,  said that the subjects for the International Conferences  on Public Educationwere selected joirtiy by the Inter-  national Bureau of Education and Uñesco, The  proposals which the Secretariat intended to submit to  the Joint Unesco-IBE Committee were given in the  proposed programme (paragraphe 89 and 81); the  subjects suggested were; for 1058, the primary  school curriculum, and for 1950, the secondary school  curriculum. Those subjects were part of a general  programme already embarked on. Nevertheless, the  Secretariat would pass on the Yugoslav representative's  suggestions to the Joint Committee. ‘  Mr. Guiton drew the atténtion of the Indian repres-  entative to the correction made to.paragrarhs 99 to
101 in document 9C/5, Corrigendum 1 (paragraph 99).  It was proposed that arrañgements be made for  certain specific problems to be studied, under contract,  by the Unesco Institute for Education at Hamburg or  by appropriate nén-governmental organizations, That  arrangement met Mr. Salyldain's suggestion.  Mr. Guiton pointed out that, although the eatimates  for the programme of Participation in Member States‘  activities were large in relation to Unesco's total  budget, they were small in the light of the work to ba  done.  The education of girls was a subject to which the  Secretariat had devoted much attention. He pointed  out that Unesco would have no discrimination between   IV-24  the sexes; and that its work für the extension of school  education benefitéd girls as well as boys. What could  be doné wider the Participation programme depended  on the requests received from Member States, very  few of which, so far, had dealt with women's educa-  tion. The principle of equality of educational oppor-  tunities for men and women had been upheld at all  conferénces convened by Unesco, The Secretariat  had, moreover; carried out technical investigations  on the access of women to technical and vocational  education (1956), and was preparing a study on the  access of women to higher education. It was true  that those activities were limited in.scope; and the  Secretariat would be plessed to receive detailed  suggestions for more effective measures.  Unesco was taking part in the vast advisory  services programme initiated by the United Nations  in the field of human rights. The Secretariat had  taken part in the preparatory meeting for the  regional seminar to be held in Asia in 1957 to discuss  the social problems attendant on women's partici-  pation in public affairs.  In conclusion, it should be borne in mind that there  were three aspects of the problem of women's  education: the social sélences aspect; the publicity  aspect, which came under the Department of Mass  Communication; and the technical aspect. It was  only with the last aspect that the Department of  Education was concerned.  As to education for international understanding, the  list of activities given by the French delegate was  incomplete; it should, for example, include the project  for improvement of school curricula, which was fun-  damental to all activities in that field; it should also  mention the International Institute of Child Study, at  Bangkok, which was to undertake surveys of child  development in various civilizations. Finally, in  Corrigendum 4 to the proposed programme, the  Director-General had suggested increasing the  estimates for teaching about the United Nations, which  was yet another aspect of education for international  understanding.
(43) Mr. LUND (Sweden) associated himself with  those who had spoken in favour of strengthening work  to promote the education of women. He would  accordingly move that the provision contained in  paragraph 130 be increased to $5,000 in respect of  both 1957 and 1958. The sum would still be ridicul-  ously small, but it would serve to remind the Secret-  ariat of their duties in that field.
(44) Mr, ANAS (Afghanistan) pointed out that the  education 6f women was in some countries hampered  by social traditions which could not be simply brushed  aside. There should be a gradual evolution, and it  would be necessary to enlist the services of specialists  to provide practical education for women. To give  them precisely the same education as men would serve  no good purpose in existing social conditions. The  Calcutta Research Centré should be encouraged to  investigate that problem.
(48) Misa TRINIDAD (Philippines) supported the  Danish delegate and others in appealing for wider  educational opportunities for women,  Referring to the remarks of the delegate of the
442     PROGRAMME COMMISSION  Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, she mentioned -  that, in the Philippines, enrolment of women in  educational establishments amounted to more than 50  per cent at all levels and the number of women grad-  uates was fast increasing, As the delegate of India  had said, the task was, above all, one of increasing  the actual opportunities for education available to  women rather than merely establishing the principle,  In reply to the view expressed by the delegate of  Afghanistan, she said that the fact that some recom-  mendations could not be implemented speedily in some  Member States should not prevent Unesco fram form-  ulating programmes from which women in some  countries could derive benefits immediately; naturally,  in some countries, the process would be a lengthy one,  due to the social situation,  The Acting Diréctor of the Department of Education  had stated that few requests regarding women's  education had been received from Member States,  She was not entirely élear in her own mind why à  project in that field which had been included in the  programme and budget for 1954-1955 had been dropped,  The budget for 1857-1958 had no specific project in  that field.  At a time when women were participating to an eyer  growing extent in international conferences, it was -  hard to see why theré were no projects relating to  women in the programme, She recalled that the  Regional Conference of Unesco held in Tokyo had  adopted a proposal, submitted by her delegation, to  widen the scope of educational opportunities for  women, The problem was particularly vital in the  underdeveloped countries, and she urged the Com-  mission to give the matter its earnest study.
(46) Mr. KUDRJAVTSEV (Byelorussian Soviet  Socialist Republic) thought it was lear from docu- .  ments 8C/5 and 9C/5 Corrigendum 1 that activities  relating to school buildings and equipment fell under  two headings: ‘the major project on school equipment;  and the International Conferénce on Public Education.  In his view, work in that field in 1957 and 1958 should  be restricted to the International Conference. The  Conference would, besides considering other aspects  of the problem, examine reports from Member States  on their achievements, so that there would be a pooling  of experience on means of solving the important  problem involved,
(47) Mr, THOMAS (Assistant Director-General)  recalled that the programme of the Department of .  Education included activities relating to the education  of girls (paragraphs 127 to 130); and that the two  reports which the Secretariat was to prepare on the  improvement of school attendance by girls and on  higher education for women (paragraph 128) involved  numerous consultations and would take considerable  time and energy. The education of girls was, moreover,  among the activities of Member States in which Unesco  was authorized to participate, and the responsibility  for obtaining assistance in that matter lay with Member  States alone. The Director-General was keenly aware  of the importance of the problem of women's education,  and was fully prepared to examine any constructive  suggestions.
(48) Mr. MORITO (Japan) said that his country   PROGRAMME  attached great significasice to the associated schools  projects in education for international under standing  and had participated in that project from its initial  stage. It was consequently a matter of gratification  to his delegation that it should be expanded and that  provision should be made for 25 teacher training  institutions.  He outlined the successful experimental activities  carried out in Japan, a report on which had been  published with the assistance of Unesco, That year,  the Japanese National Commission had ini}lated a new  roject in Japan to popularize methods of education  or international understending and co-operation  through the maximum utilization of knowledge,  experience and materials from both inside and outside  Japan, the National Commission providing co-ordina-  ting and advisory services. Thirteen secondary  .  schools had been associated in that project. Four out  of six experimental schools were attached to a  university, so that keen interest had been aroused  among the faculties in education for international  understanding and in the experimental activities in  that field.  He would submit the following points for considera-  tion In connexion with the project: first, the promotion  of study on methods of evaluation of pupils' attitudes  should be emphasized, as improvement of those  methods was urgently required at the stage reached;  secondly, while it was desirable that the associated  schools project should have some link with Major  Project 4A, on mutual appreciation of Eastern and  Western cultural values, care should be taken to  maintain unchanged the fundamental character of the  original project; and, thirdly, exchange of information  on the project should be facilitated by Unesco as far  as possible.  His delegation was much in favour of establishing  an information and research centre on the teaching of  foreign languages in Asia, as à means of promoting  international understanding and, in particular, mutual  appreciation of Eastern and Western cultural values,  for countries in Asia, particularly, were handicapped  by the language barrier, He accordingly welcomed  the Executive Board's comment in document 8C/6,  where it noted with satisfaction that the programme  and budget for 1957-1938 provided a possibility that  the language teaching centre might be set up in 1957,  In the meantime, the Japanese National Commission  had taken an active interest in the question and had  studied the possibility of setting up such a centre in  Japan, ss à result of which it was requesting an  sppropriate budgetary provision to that end from the  Ministry of Finance,
(49) Dr. VINE (World Health Organization) was glad  to take up the point of health education mentioned by  the delegate of the United States of America. He  recalled that WHO had collaborated closely with  Unesco in that sphere, as WHO regarded such educa-  tion as an integral part of teaching. WHO played a  most important rôle in developing standards and  teaching methods. It was noteworthy that health  education had recently been discussed at a WHO  regional conference, and would be the topic for  technical discussions at the forthcoming session of  the World Health Assembly.  He did not think that sufficient attention had yet been
443  COMMISSION TV-24  paid to that major point.. It was quite erroneous to  assume that health education was the responsibility of  the school medical service. It was the responsibility  of the teachers, who could thus play à tremendous  part in the prevention of disease. In the experience  of WHO, 40 or 50 per cent of disease among children  in underdeveloped countriès would have heen prevent-  able if some simple methods of elementary personal  hygiene had been inculcated into the child and ite  parents; the question of school absenteeism would  clearly also be improved, It was essential that that  concept should be appreciated at all levels of the  administration and among all teachers,  The results of research into the substance of health  education had been published in a document under the  joint auspices of Unesco and WHO. Naturally, however,  such teaching would have to be accompanied by the  facilities for putting those simple rules into practice.
(50) Mr, GUITON (Acting Director, Department of  Education) drew the attention of the WHO representa-  tive to paragraph 104 of Part II, Chapter 1 in Corri-  gendum 1 to the proposed programme, dealing with  the training of teachers in health and hygiene.  {51) Mr, HAVELKA (Czechoslovakia) was in favour  of furthering the education of girls. That problem had  already been solved in his country. He considered  that all Unesco's activities should be focused on  education for international understanding, and it was  for that reason that his delegation had submitted the  amendment in document §C/DR/61, recommending  that education, and in particular textbooks, should be  freed from all factors calculated to impede inter -  national understanding.
(52) Mr. NEQNIQ (Ethiopia) particularly commended  paragraph (F) in resolution 1,32. His country was  most appreciative of the technical mission on adult  education sent by Unesco to Ethiopia. Vocational and  technical training was undoubtedly most important in  modern life in raising the general standard of living.
(53) Mr, MARSABAN (Indonesia) wished to empha-  size some parsgraphs of section 1,3 which were of  particular {importance to his country.  Referring to paragraph 106, he said that Indonesia,  since its independence, bad been making great efforts  to improve its school cukricula. He welcomed the  statement in paragraph 107 that assistance would be  given in organizing a regional seminar on the school  curriculum. His country had participated in the  associated schools projects in education for interna-  tional understanding, and he waa glad to say that, in  spite of some difficulties, the project was proving  valuable and was meeting its aims. He warmly  supported resolution 1.31.  Commenting on paragraph 82, he said that Indonesia  had initiated teaching In English, as a language of  wider communication, té be used as well as the  national language. The question of training Englieh-  language teachers was therefore most important; a  unit for that purpose had been set up in collaboration  with the Ford Foundation and he hoped that Unesco  would be able to rendér some assistance also. He  warmly welcomed the Italian délegate's suggestion  for a seminar of social workers; his country was   IV -24  particularly interested in such a group, as it had a  school for social workers.
(54) Miss RUSTOMJEE (Internationel Federation of  University Women) aasociated herself with those who  had spoken in favour of education for woraen, It was  important to bear in mind the fact that to educate the  woman was going a long way towards educating the  family. That was also true as far as health education  was concerned. The Secretariat should make every  effort to encourage Member States to take more  positive action jn those fields.
(55) Miss PEDERSEN (Denmark) was grateful to the  representative of the Director-General for his positive  attitude on women's education, which she would inter-  pret as a promise that something would be done. It  would be useful if reference to the views expressed in  the Commission on that subject could be included in  its report.
(56) Mr, GUITON (Acting Director, Department of  Education) drew attention, in connexion with language  teaching, to the draft resolution submitted by Japan  (document 9C/DR/101), relating to the major project  on mutual appreciation of Eastern snd Western cultural  values, and proposing the creation of a research centre  in Asia on the teaching of languages.
(67) The CHAIRMAN said that the proposal made at  the current meeting by the delegate of Uruguay would  be considered as a recommendation to the Secretariat  for the work plans and not as a draft resolution, It  would not therefore require a vote. She invited the  Commission to take a decision on resolution 1.31.  She would first put to the vote paragraph (A) of the  resolution, as amended by the Wor Party on  Fundamental Education (document 9C/PRG/27, para-  graph 45), since the amendments were purely matters  of drafting.
(58) Paragraph (A) of resolution 1.31, as amended,  was adopted unanimously.
(58) The CHAIRMAN then drew attention to the  amendment to paragraph (B) of the resclution,  submitted by the delegatir: of Czechoslovakia (docu-  ment 9C/DR/61), which had been duly seconded,
(60) Mr, GIVENS (United States of America) thought  that the draft resolution was unnecessarily severe and  limitative in scope. Any change in paragraph (B)  should reinforce the intention rather than limit it, He  therefore proposed that the Czechoslovak amendment  be amended to read as follows: "so aa to free educa-  tion from all factors which might impede the achieve-  ment of the objectives of Unesco's Constitution".
(61) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) agreed with the United  States representative regarding paragraph (B) of draft  resolution 1.31. . He thought that text already covered  all the points the Czechoslovak representative had  mentioned. On the other hand, he regrotted the  omission of à phrase which had always appeared in  Unesco's programme and which he thought should be  retained: "towards the dignity of the human being,  international understanding and co-operation”.
(62) Mr, KOVAL (Ukrainian Soviet Socialist  Republic) fully supported the Czechoslovak draft  amendment. It was essential that racial discrimina-  tion should be abolished, and Unesco's reputation  could not fail to be enhanced if that were done.
(63) Mr. SAIYIDAIN (India) was not convinced of the  desirability of the United States amendment. It was  indeed important to emphasize the negative factors  and to mention the obstacles in the path of the fulfil-  ment of the resolution's alms, He supported the draft  resolution submitted by the delegation of Czecho-  slovakia as it stood.
(64) Mr, STEWART (Canada) seconded tha United  States proposal. He was disturbed at seeing a draft  resolution couched, as was the Czechoslovak draft  resolution, in terms which were not in keeping with  the usual tenor of Unesco's resolutions. He was  surprised that the Indian delegate had supported it.
(65) Mr. KISELEV (Byelorussian Soviet Socialist  Republic) was in favour of the efforts to extend edu-  cation for women, which would enable women to take  .a more active part in political, social and cultural life.  It would, moreover, further international understanding.  He also fully supported the Czechoslovak proposal,
(66) The CHAIRMAN called attention to the draft  resolution submitted by the French delegation in  respect of paragraph 106 (document 8C/DR/11), which  had been duly seconded.  She also drew attention to a slight error in the  English text of the Czechoslovak draft resolution;  “auch as" should read "namely".  She then put to the vote the United States amendment  to that draft resolution,
(67) .The United States amendment was adopted by 39  votes to 13, with 7 abstentions.
(68) The Czechoslovak draft resolution, as amended,  was adopted by 50 votes to none, with 4 abstentions,
(69) The CHAIRMAN recalled that the delegate of  Lebanon had made an oral ame ent to paragraph  (B) of the resolution, so that the end of the original  paragraph’ (B) would read: "towards the dignity of the  human being, international understanding and  co-operation”.
(70) The Lebanese amendment was adopted  unanimously.
(71) Paragraph (B) of resolution 1,31, as amended,  was adopted unanimously.
(72) The CHAIRMAN said that the Italian delegate's |  proposal in respect of resolution 1.32 would have to |  be considered as a recommendation to the Secretarial  for the work plans. She recalled that the representa-  tive of 11.0 had ‘submitted an amendment to the preamble,  the last words of which would then read: ‘by initiating  and carrying out activities fn co-operation with the  appropriate international organizations in the  following fields".   PROGRAMME
(13) The suggestion made by the representative of  JLO was adopted,  ) (14) Resolution 1.32, as amended, was adopted  . gnanimonisly.
(15) Mr. GUITON (Acting Director, Department of  Education) stated that the budget estimate for the  proposal contained in document 8C/DR/11 was  $32,000,
(76) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) recalled that his  delegation had always maintained that it was impos-  sible to deal with school curricula without taking up  thé subject of educational reform. The Advisory  Committee on the School Curriculum had endorsed  that view at its recent meeting. The problem was an  urgent one for several countries, and it was essential  to deal with it first.
(77) The French proposal (document 8C/DR/11) was  adopted by 38 votes to 7, with 10 abstentions.
(78) The CHAIRMAN noted that the French proposal  contained in document 9C/DR/12, relating to para-  graph 107, had been withdrawn. She calieu  attention to a further French draft resolution,  contained in document 8C/DR/10.  COMMISSION     IV-25
(79) Mr. GUITON (Acting Director, Department of  Education) stated that the budget estimate for that  proposal was $27,712, He mentioned that the  Secretariat had just concluded a contract with the  Hamburg Institute, which was to convene a meeting of  experts on the subject in 1887.
(80) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) was pleased to note  that decision, and withdrew the French proposal,  document 9C/DR/10,
(61) The CHAIRMAN noted that no action was there-  fore called for. She drew attention to the draft  resclution submitted by France in document
(82) Mr, GUITON (Acting Director, Department of  Education) stated that the Secretariat's budget esti-  mate for that proposal was $12,167, The Secretariat  would be very plessed to carry out the project if the  necessary funds were available,
(83) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) hoped the Secretariat  would take that text into consideration when the  future programme of the Hamburg institute were  being planned.  The meeting rose at 1,10 p.m.  TWENTY - FIFTH MEETING
28 November 1956, at 3 p.m.  Chairman: Mr. ANAS (Afghanistan)  TEN 9.4 OF TAE AGENDA : CULTURAL ACTIVITIES (continued)  Draft resolution 9C/DR/49  {1} The CHAIRMAN announced that, before resuming  its discussion of the programme of the Department of  Education, | the Commission should take a second vate  - on the proposal contained in document 9C/DR/49,  submitted by the delegation of Argentina, the first  yote on that proposal having been equally divided  _ (Rule 90 of the Rules of Procedure of the General  Conference).  @ Mr, ‘BOURGEOIS (Switzeriahd) recalled that he  had stated earlier that his delegation was in principle  in favour of the Argentine draft resolution, but would  like to hear the views of the other Latin American  countries, Those countries had supported thé pro-  posal, but the Swiss delegate wanted, nevertheless, to  make a few comments before the vote was taken.  The main responsibility fur publicizing Unesco's work  throtighout the world lay with the National Commis-  sions. The Swiss delegation was convinced that that
445     was true, but wondered whether the establfshment ot  a new Centre in Latin América might not lead to  proposuls for setting ip similar centres in other  countries also, which would involve expénse for  Unesco,
(3) Mr. MALLEA (Argentina) did nôt think thé Swiss  delegate's comment applied to the document on which  the Commission was about fo vote. He recalled that  the documerit under discussion was 9C/DR/49, pro-  posing the establishment of an International Docu-  mentation Céntré in Buenos Aires; the speaker  thought the Swiss ts delegate was referring to another  proposal subimitied by the Argentine delegation to a  special working party, since the Centre mentioned in’  document 9C/DR/49 had nothing to do with the  Naticoal Commissions. He asked the Chairman to  put the matter to thè vote immediately, as the  question liad been adequately discussed, especially  in view of all the work the Commission still had  before it.
(4) Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland) replied that the