CHAPTER  IV-1-2"  IV  PROGRAMME COMMISSION  FIRST MEETING
6 November 1956, at 5.45 p.m.  Chairman: Mr, HALLSTEIN (Federal Republic of Germany)  ELECTION OF THE CHAIRMAN
(1) The Programme Commission held a very brief  meeting for the sole purpose of electing its Chairman.  {2) The CHAIRMAN anounced that the Nominations  Committee had proposed us the Commission's  permanent Chairman, Mrs. Alva Myrdal of Sweden,
(3) The proposal of the Noininatior: Committee was  unanimously adopted by acclamation.  The meeting rose at 6.50 p.m,  SECOND MEETING
13 November 1956  Chairman: Mrs.  (i) ‘The CHAIRMAN called the sécond meeting of tj e  Programme Commission to order and expressed hir  sincere thanks to her fellow delegates for the honou >  which they had done to her country in electing ber  Chairman. She took on the task as & noble duty  which she would eadeavour to carry out to the best,  of her ability.  ELECTION OF OFFICERS  {2) The CHAIRMAN called for nominations for the  three posts of Vice-Chairmen and that of Rap-  {3) Mr. BARBEY (Switzerland), on behalf of Mr,  Bourgeois, the head of the Swiss delegation and  Chairman of the Programme Commission at the  _ eighth séssion of the Conference, proposed thy names  of Mr. Bujalic (Yugoslavia), Mr. Anas (Afghanistan)  -.and Mr. Quifiones Sanchez (Guatémaia).
1   {4) The proposals were seconded by several delega-
(5) Mr, ARREAGA' (Guateriaia) was sorry | to 1 say that  the head of the Guatemalan delegation, Mr.  Quitiones  Sanchez, had received instructions from his Govern-  ment which made it necessary f for him to eave at the  end of the ‘week to visit a matnber' of Eastern ‘countries.  He was ac giy unable, to accept the ‘great | honour  the Commission sought | to do him in appointing him'a  Vice-Chairman, If the purposé of Mr, Barbey's mo  posal had been to secure a representative of Central  America as one of thé Vice-Chairmen, the office which  Mr. Quilionez Sanchex waé unable to accept might per-  haps be given to Professot Barrios Duarte, the head ’  of the Nicaraguan delegation. '
(6) The delegate of Switzei and paving ‘indicated that  he was agreesble to the change, the proposal was  seconded by the Belgian tlt Venezuelan delegations.
(7) The CHAIRMAN asked whéther the Commission  would accept the three appointments as Vice- Chairmen  and they were approved,
(8) ‘As Cénada, in addition to other ‘qualities, had a  very fine tradition of bilingualism, thé Chairmii sug-  gested that the Canadian delegation provide the Rapporteur.   Iv-3
(0) As Chairman of his country's delegation, Mr,  BROCKINGTON (Canada) accepted the honour and  nominated Senator Donald Cameron for the post of  Rapporteur, Senstor Cameron had been appointed to  the Canadian Senate a few months previously and  was a true representative of the nation-wide culture  of Canada, He had to his credit the #stting up of a  unique establishment - the Banff School of Fine Arts.  Mr. Brockington believed him to be an able and im-  partial man, .  {10) The Canadian nomination, seconded by the dele-  gations of Denmark, Switzerland, Sweden and many  others, was approved by acclamation.
(11)- Thanking his fellow delegates, Mr, CAMERON  (Canadx), as a newcomer, requested them to bear with  any errors which he might commit. He added that he  was very glad to work with a representative of Sweden,  as Canada had many contacts with that country.  ITEN 9 OF THE AGENDA ; CONSIDERATION OF PART H OF THE  PROPOSED PROGRAMME AND BUDGET FOR 1807-1808 (documents
9C/5 and Addenda and Corrigenda) -- GENERAL DISCUSSION
(12) At the request of the CHAIRMAN, Mr. BENDER  (Netherlands) (Representative of the Executive Board)  said that he considered it a pleasure and an honour to  attend meetings of the Commission and that he would  advise it to the best of his ability.  Although the Executive Board was not the prime  mover of the programme and budget proposed to the  Conference, it had worked in close and cordial co-  operation with the Director-General and his staff. .  throughout the year. The first draft had been submit-  ted to the Board in November 1955, subsequently being  sent out to Member States and National Commissions.  It had come back to the Board at the latter's July ses-  sion, when it had been very thoroughly discussed,  The comments and recommendations of the Board on  that occasion would be found in document 9C/5 Adden-  dum 1, Several suggestions made by the Board in  July, and éntailiñg a budgetary increase of some  $325, 000, had been incorporated In document 9C/5  Corrigendum 1, the Diréctor-General having been able  to absorb that additional amount within his original  proposed budget total, The Annex to document 9C/5  Corrigenduin | containéd detaila of other possible  projects which, if executed, wouid'cost in all approxi-  mately $3,000,000 above the proposed total, .  Mr. Bender warned delegations that he would not  always be in a position to state thé Board's views on  any given question as, in some cases, it had reached  no decision. Individual views expressed by members  of the Board had been noted by the Director-General  in the Annex fo document 9C/5 Corrigendum 1 and he  had done his best fo integrate the essential points in  the sed programme. Lastly, Mr. Bender men-  tioned that, whenever he was unable to attend a meet-  ing of the Commission, he would be replaced by Mrs.  Schlueter-Hermkes or another member of the Board.
(13) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out thit, as  a result of the decision taken that morning by the Con-  ference in plenary meeting, the Programme Commis-  sion had to work within a budget ceiling which was
310  PROGRAMME OOMMISSION  higher by $1,000,000 than that which he had himgelt  proposed, That figure was, however, subject to any  adjustments which might be recommended by the  Administrative Commission in establishing the Orga-  nization's total budget, Some of those recommenda-  tions would ndt be made until a later stage, as the  Administrative Commission had s0 far considered  certain parts of the budget only, For example, {t had  not yet considered the report of the Headquarters  Committee on additional expenditure likely to be in-  curred in 1958, +  With regard to the Annex to document 90/5 Corri-  gendum 1, the Director-General pointed out that,  although eome of the proposals in that Annex were  covered by draft resolutions, they would not automa-  tically be included in the programme unless thére was  a formal proposal to that effect from delegations, In  other words, delegates should not assume that, if  projects were already included in the Annex, there  was no need to make a proposal, - He added that the  Conference in plenary meeting had just adopted a  motion allowing draft resolutions, so far as they re-  lated tô the three major projects, to be submitted:  beyond thé daté laid down in the Rules of Procedure.  The Director-General wished to emphasize that,  while the proposed programme was primarily the  work of the Secretariat, the proposals in document
9C/6 Corrigendum 1 were largely based on the recom-  mendations of the Executive Board, some of which he  had himself opposed in the Board, The Director-  General had been criticized by some delegations for  undue caution in the budget estimates, but he desired  delegations to note that the Executive Board had al-  most unanimously urged him to keep within the pro-  posed maximum spending level of $21,600,000, The  Board thus shared responsibility for the budget ceil-  ing proposed by him,  The Secretariat would be available to answer ques-  tions oa all projects and to give advice on the use of  the additional $1,000,000 henceforth available, but  it would first have to consider any draft resolutions  submitted in connexion with the three major projects.  Hence its proposals would be available only at a later  stage. ' 2.  With regard to the payment of salary increases be-  coming dué ag a result of any action which might be  taken by the Conference concetning the decisions of  the United Nations Salary Review Committee, the ‘  Director-General recalled that he had stated in the  plenary meeting that he proposed to absorb one-half  of the costs cut ôf savings within the budget, and to  draw the other half from the Working Capital Fund.  The United States delegation, on the other hand, had  proposed that the whole amount be drawn from the,  Working Capital Fund. As the Conferéncé had taken  no action on either suggestion, the Programme Com-  mission could merely note that those were suggestions  for later consideration by the Administrative  Commission. . ; Co  In conclusion, the Director-General said that he  ‘was nof tied irrevocably to every item in the proposed  programme, realizing that delegates might well intro-  duce serious improvements; the Secretariat was  ready to co-operate fully with them.
(14) Thanking the representative of thé Executive  Board and the Director-General for their statements   PROGRAMME  and promisen of continued co-operation; the CHAIR-  MAN requested the Commission to consider its time-  fable of work, The relevent documents were 9C/9  and its Addendum, The Commission's task was to  consider Part II of document 9C/6 and any special re-  ports relating thereto, i,e,, items 0 and 10 of the  agenda of the General Conférence. After the general  discussion and establishment of working parties, it  was suggested that the Programme Commission begin  with Technical Assistance and then take Social  Sciences. ’ ;
(18) Mr. ZAMORANO (Chile) asked why the discus-  sion of the programme was not to bagin with the  Education chapter, as had been the custom at other  mssioùs of the General Conference,
(16) The CHAIRMAN drew the attention of the dele-  fate of Chile to the statement on page 3 of document  $C/0 to the effect that, #0 far, the discussion on the  programme had always begun with the chapter on  Education. Feeling that rotation was desirable, it  hed been proposed to begin with another chapter,  mmely, Social Sciences.
(17) Mr. ZAMORANO (Chile) pressed for an indica-  tion of the reasons why it was proposed to begin the  study of the programme with the chapter on Social  Sciences.
(16) Mr, THOMAS (Assistant Director-General)  asked the members of the Commission to refer to  document 9C/0 and its Addendum, He recalled that,  at previous sensions of the Conference, the Pro-  gramme Commission had always begun by discussing  the Department of Education, which had sometimes  led to their neglecting other parts of the proposed pro-  gramme to lack of time. It had therefore  seemed desirable to introduce a system of rotation.  The Executive Board had proposed that, at the current  session, the discussions should open with the Cultural  Activities programme. . As it was proposed, however,  that several important sections of that chapter should  be studied by various working parties; which would  presumably be set up by the Commission on the  recommendation of the Board, it would be better for  the Commission to await their reports before em-  barking on the general discussion of the Cultural  Activities chapter,  The working parties would be far leas concerned  with the chapter on Social Sciences and it was for that  reagon that it had been proposed to begin with that  part of the proposed programme. :
(19) Mr. ZAMORANO (Chile) had no wish to drag out  tie discussion, but inquired whether, notwithstanding  the remarks of the Assistant Director-General; it  would not be possible to begin the study of the pro-  gramme with the Education chapter, which was the  most important in terms of Unesco's objectives.  With-  out decrying the importance of Cultural Activities and  Social Sciences, there was a logical order of signifi-  cance in which Education came first; moreover, that  was the chapter which would necessarily require the  lohgest study by the Commission, He therefore  urged the Commission to accept the change which he  hid proposed.  COMMISSION
(20) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the Secretariat  had already explained why the changes had been made.  If the Commission colapleted its discussion of the  Social Sciences chapter by the end of the current week,  there would be plenty of time left for the other pro-  gramme chapters.
(21) Mr,’ FALARDEAU (Canada) remarked that  various reasons might cause the Commission to hesi-  tate in their choice of such or such a chapter of the  proposéd programme, He had every sympathy with  Mr, ‘Thomas’ arguments, but he personally felt that  the Social Sciences chapter could not profitably be  discussed until after the major projects had beén  considered, Moteover, it would probably be neces-  sary to set up several working parties to study the  various projects under that head too. He considered  it essential to discuss the major projects before  turning to the Social Sciences chapter.
(22) Mr. HUNT (United States of America) thought  it evident from the statements made by the Chair-  man and the Assistant Director-General, and from  the comments of the Executive Board, that the orga-  nization of work had been very carefully studied. He  therefore moved adoption of the order of discussion  suggested by the Chairman,
(23) The above proposal was seconded by the dele-  gates of Italy, Afghanistan and Belgium and  adopted.
(24) Mr, BARBEY (Switzerland) wished to limit the  scope of the debate. Experience at earlier sessions  had shown that a discussion moving from the general  to the particular often tended to spread too wide. He  felt that the Commission could not usefully discuss  the proposed programmes of the Departments until it  had heard the statements of the departmental heads.  Mr. Barbey gave 2 brief summary of the generel  impression mede upon his delegation by the proposed  programme: (a) The part allotted to general acti-  vities had been cut down to a minimum and should not  at any cost be reduced further; (b) It would be diffi-  cult for the Commission to consider thoroughly the  significañcé and implications of various draft resolu-  tions that had been presented relatively late; all that  could ba done in such cases was to rrcommend the  Director-General and the Executive Board to take  noté of them for a futuré programme; (c) The Swiss  delegation wished to urge the Commission not to chal-  lenge decisions that had already been takén and on  which work had started, as, for example, the activi-  ties connected with research on cell biology; reliance  should be placed in the Secretariat, which had acted  with great caution in such cases; (d) The desire for  even greater co-operation with international non--  governmental organizations should be reflected in all  projects; (e) It was essential that the ‘plans for one  major project - that on better understanding between  East and West - should be finally worked out during  the current session; -(f) It would bé vory useful it _-  various publications, and especially the "Courier",  could be issued in further languages, but Mr. Barbey  reserved the right to retirn to that question when  the Commission came to discuss the Documents and  Publications Service.   Iv-2 PROGRAMME COMMISBION
(25) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) wished to make a  general remark about the structure of the programme,  The programme under consideration, which had be-  hind it ten years of development, seemed to be well  balanced; it mot many needs to which Member States  had drawn attention, and its structure was satisfac-  tory,  On the other hand, -it was certainly not a programme  with a future, The situation of Member States, their  National Commissions, etc. was perpetually chang-  ing and new problems arose that were often outside  Unesco's competence, . .  It would therefore be useful for the Commission,  not at the stage reached but after the completion of its  work, to set aside one or two meetings for a discus-  sion of the Organization's prospects for the future.  lt was important, in fact, for the Conference, through  the Commission, to give the Secretariat certain direc-  tives où future programme policy, Something of that  sort had been begin at Montevideo, but had been  shelved and should be taken up again.
(26) Mr. HUNT (United States of America) made the  following statement: "Madam Chairman, fellow dele-  gates: I am pleased fo represent my delegation on  this Commission, for I believe that it is charged with  a most significant responsibility, The success of  Unesco and its strength among the peoples and the  Governments of the world will ultimately depend not  upon the speeches that are made here relating to the  current world situation, not upon the resounding  resolutions that may be passed, and not upon our de-  bates upon organizational detail, but rather upon our  wisdom in developing a practical and effective pro-  gramme for the Organization in the fields of education,  science and culture.  As was indicated in our Chairman's statement be-  fore the plenary meeting; we believe that the Director-  General, working from the principles laid down in  Montevideo two years ago, is developing an quistand-  ing programme. It embodies a recognition of the  fundamental nature of the general activities, those  upon which all other action depends, . The programme  indicates that a determined effort has been made and  is to be continued towards ascertaining the needs of  Member States and responding. to them, It is’ evident  that valuable forward steps have already been taken  and are to be contimied iii thé co-ordination of Unesco's  programme with other United Nations ‘activities, par-  ticularly with the Expanded Programme of Technical  Assistance, Finally, the most marked feature of this  programme, in the opinion of our delegation, is the  proposal to initiate several so-called major projects;  imperfect though the actual articulation of thé prin-  ciple may be, the formula is there and we believe that,  during the next two years, a substantial base can be  established for a most significant tén-year programme.  Judging from the statements made before the plen-  ary meeting, there is widespread agreement with  this sentiment of general satisfaction with the direc-  tion of the programme, This is not to minimize .  individual differences or determined efforts to ad- -  vance specific projects. Indeed the programine as  proposed docs pose severa) questions of broad scope  that deserve. the careful attention of this Programme -  Commission. We believe that the solution of some of  these broad problems could be facilitated by debate in
312  this group. Several of these issues are recognised -  or have been recognized through the creation of work  groups to deal with them, Let me illustrate by lat.  ing a few specific cases;
1. The future development of the major project  concept, ET
2. The content and method to be used in the execu-  tion of major projectg, particularly the one proposed  for the promotion of mutual understanding between  Asian and Western cultures, © -
3. The strengthening of National Commissions and  the participation of Member States in the implemen-  tation of thé Unésto' pidgramine,
4. The rôle of Unésco in the negotiation of recom-  mendations, conventions and agreements,
5, The role of advisory committees, meetings of  experts and non-governmental organizations in pro-  viding programme advice,
6, The Participation programme,
7. The question of establishing centres for carry-  ing out Unesco functions.
8. The role of the Mass Communication Depart-  ment,
9. The role of the social Solences Departmeat,  Let me then suggest that we concentrate our time  and attention on thesé broad subjécts or issues. This  can be done if the various delegations agree and if  the Chairman and other officers of the Commission  give their sanction and assistance, Our success will  depend upon a positive approach with this point of  view. In terms of procedure, thère âre certain things  that can be done, Some of you may recall that two  years ago the United States delegation ‘proposed that  debate be limited to those programme items which '  some delegation wished to modify, Our move was  possibly misunderstood and perhaps causéd a certain  amount of confusion,” -I do not wish to make a fornial  proposal at this timé, but I would suggest that each  delegation speak only on matters that are of real con-  cern to a umber of delegations,’ that we do not ipeak  simply to endorse those points of view which are pot  in jeopardy, or to deal unduly with the accomplish-  ments of our particular countries. It might be well  too, if we understand at the beginning that we should  impose a time-limit on our spéeches. We should  agree that the Chairman is free to exercise a grest  deal of diséretion in ruling what matters are pertinent  and what are not. She should also feel free to sug-  gest that differences on minor points be reconciled .  by direct negotiation between parties involved outside  the Commission itself.  Most of us have known our distinguished Chairman  in other capacities, and we have great faith in her.  ability and fairness and we know that the work of the  Commission will be expedited because of her intimate  acquaintance with the subject matter under discussion.  We heartily support her excellent initial statement  this afternoon.’  If -we approach our task in this spirit, we can con-  suminate our discussions with an exchange of infor-  mation and views that will be satisfying and useful .  to ourselves and that will serve the Secretariat both  as a legal basis for its work during the next two  years and as a guide for the spirit in which the work  shall be done, "
(27) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) expressed the French.   PROGRAMME  delegation's appreciation of the way the proposed  programme faithfully followed the pattern suggested  to the Secretariat by the Conference, at its Monte-  video session, being arranged under general activities,  apecial activities and major projects, He noted with  satisfaction that the priority areas had on the whole  been observed,  "However, the French delegation could not approve  of the programme unreservedly, for certain trends  were to be observed in it which seemed to the delega-  tion dangerous.  With regard to the ‘distinction. made between general  and special activities, Mr, François recalled that the  French delegation had always advocated the former,  which were specifically designed to enrich culture and  to promote intellectual co-operation; it had never  been opposed, on the other hand, to the development  of special activities, which were of interest to certain  countries or groups of countries; but it had always  insisted on à suitable balance between them, and had  always uiged that any increase in resources should be  fairly divided between the two categories, Despite  the Director-General's assurances concerning the  essential character of the general activities in the  Introduction to the propoasd programme before the  Conference, it was clear that in fact those activities  had been substantiaily reduced. |  It was true, of course, that cértain special activities  "initiated by the Organization" could be classed as  general, such as those concerned with the peaceful  uses of atomic energy, yet, in spite of certain indi-  vidual increases, thé'generaï activities were actually  suffering an overall reduction of some $800,000,  while Participation in Member States’ activities  gained by an additional $535,000, The French dele-  gation thought it was a serious matter that Unesco  should thus be türning into a dollar-distributing agency.  Participation in Member States' activities seemed to  be disguised Technical Assistance, while there was  à separate budget and programme for Technical Assis-  tance. Certain parts of the programme seemed to  show that Unesco was no longer initiating action, but  was confining itself to elaborating a system of distri-  bution.  Unesco had a twofold mission: the Organization  had first of all to strive for the development of educa-  tion and science, and the spread of culture among the  masses; but theré was, In dny case, à ‘great natural  movement in that direction in Member States, which  Unésco could, of course, , intensify but which would  still be there if Unesco did not exist: The Organiza-  tion had also to work for the development of interna-  tional understanding, ‘and in that réspect its rôle was  essential: it was the only body able to carry out such  ‘work. Yet, in the past few years, there appedred to  be à slackening of effort in that field, as was in fact  remarked in paragraph 16 of the report of the Com-  mittee on Reports of Member States. It would seem  that Unesco was gradually ceasing its efforts to insti-  gate action,  In support of his contention, Mr. François pointed  out in the proposed budget for 1957-1958 a number of  reductions in estimates as compared with 1955-1956  to the detriment of activities or sections of the pro-  gramme expressly concerned with thé development of  international understanding: 10 per cent less for  "Public Information and Promotion of International
313     COMMISBION Iv-2  Understanding", 30 per cent less for "Social Sciences  and Problems of International Understanding", 40  per cent less for "Social Sciences and Problems of  Human Rights", and even greater reductions in the  Depertment of Education, Mr, Frangols was happy  to see, however, that the appropriations for the  development of international understanding had been  increased in the Departmént of Cultural Activities,  but that was an isolated instance and the activities in  question were, after all, of only indirect value to the  cause of international understanding,  Turning to the major projects, Mr, François said  that they were entirely satisfactory to the French  delegation, for they concerned the whole of the world  or at least a continent, and, as had been suggested at  Montevideo, were designed to meet needs expressed  by Member Statea, That applied particularly to the  project on mutual understanding between Orient and  Occident, which was inspired partly by the presaing  recommendations put forward by the National Com-  missions of Asia and Europe at their meetings at  Tokyo and Aix-en-Provence. That project seemed  to be the one which had evoked the greatest enthusiasm  at the Conference. The experience gained with it  should be taken as a basis for future work.  Mr. François then expressed the hope that the Con-  ference would consider the criteria to be applied in  the elaboration and execution of major projects; a  special committee appointed for that purpose at Monte-  video had not been able to meet, and it was gratifying  that a working party was to be set up on that question;  its first task would be the establishment of such  criteria.  In conclusion, Mr, François said that the French  delegation was determined to do its utmost to see that  the Organization remained faithful to its Constitution,  There had formerly been a Division of Education for  International Understanding in the Secretariat; it was  claimed that the activities covered by it were now dis-  tributed throughout the programme and were an integ-  ral part of all Unesco's activities, In fact, in the  opinion of the French delegation, their distribution  had meant their disappearance,
(28) Mr. LUND (Sweden) stated that, on the whole,  the proposed programme had met with approval in all  circles in his country and it was considered that the  Director-General had been successful in streamlining  Unesco's work.  Sweden hoped that it would be possible’ to carry out  “ all three of the major projects. The major project  on mutual appreciation of Eastern and Western cul-  tural-values had, aroused such enthusiasm that work  on it had already been started, The Swedish National  Commission had, for instance, organized an "Indian  Week" in collaboration with youth, adult and other  popular organizetiéns, However, Mr. Lund agreed  with the delegate of the United States of America that  delegates should nét take time in describing national  accomplishments, ‘ He would merely add that some  work on the treatment of Asian cultures in school  textbooks had already been done and might be useful  to the major project.  In conclusion, hé said that pis delegation was  not satisfied on certain points, but would bring  them up when the programme was discussed in  detail,   Iv-2
(20) Mr, MUTO (Japan) congratulated the Secretariat  on the proposed programme, which his delégation  consideréd, in general,to be well prepared;  In view ot the higher assessment level approved by  the Conference, the Japahege dolegation proposed  that the bulk of the additional sum of $1,000,000 be  devoted to the major projects, with particular refer-  ence to the project on mutual appreciation of Eastern  and Western cultural values. That project being of a  long-term and complex nature, the Japanese delega-  tion considered that no rigid time- -limit should be  fixed for its duration; the ten-year period was accep-  table on à tentative basis. It was important to evaluate  each of the individual projects making up the major  project at the appropriate time, so that the project as  a whole could be gradually improved,  Mr, Muto hoped that broad interpretation would be.  placed onthe words "mutual appreciation, so that  they included mutual appreciation between countries  of the Orient and between countries of the Occident,  as well as between Orient and Occident.  Lastly, the Japanese delegation proposed that some  overall international body be established by Unesco  to advise the Director-General on the implementation  of the project, to co-ordinate national activities and  to evaluate the content of the project. A draft resolu-  tion to that effect had been submitted by the Japanese  delegation, which he hoped would be circulated in due  course.
(30) Mr. ANAS (Afghanistan) stated that his Govern-  ment greatly appreciated and supported the programme  in general, and was particularly interested in the  major projects, especially that relating to the arid  zones, It was hoped that Unesco's arid zone project  would serve as a basis for national efforts to develop  natural resources. To that end, the Afghan delega-  tion proposed that Unesco establish a clearing house  of information on arid zone problems and work already  done in that field. The ncxt step would be to establish  liaison centres for the implementation of the major  project in the various countries concerned.  ESTABLISHMENT OF WORKING PARTIES
(31) As there were no more speakers for the time  being, the CHAIRMAN requested the Commiasion to  consider the problem of the establishment of working  parties, The Board's recommendations on that sub-  ject were to be found in document 8C/9 Addendum,
(32) Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Director General) men-  tioned that the establishment ot working parties within  the Programme Commission was à normal practice.  Document 9C/0 and its Addendum provided for six.  Two of thém would examine the draft texts of interna-  tional regulations regarding archaeological excava-  tions and international competitions in architecture  and town planning. A third wouid discuss the desira-  bility of preparing regulations, for subsequent adop-  tion, on rnational exchanges of publications, the  standardization of educational statistics, and so-  called "nef ring"! rights in connexion with copy- -  right. A fourth working party would be concerned with  major projects, a fifth with the redefinition of funda-  mental education, and the sixth would examine the
314     PROGRAMME COMMISSION  report of the Commission for a History of the Scienti-  fic and Cultural Development of Mankind, -  Mr, Thomas recommended that, if the Commission  agreed to the setting üib of those six working parties; the  tirst two should set to work without delay and submit  their reports before the end of the week. The work of  the third was not as urgent. General policy and admini-  strative problems inyolved in major projects had heen  mentioned by many delegations; the fourth party should  therefore start its work fairly quickly, The one to  examine the definition of fundamental education could  wait until the following week. As regarded the sixth,  the Commission would have to decide whether it should  meet before or after a general discussion of the pro-  ject by the Commission.
(33) Mr. BENDER (Netherlands) (Representative of  the Executive Board) had nothing to add to the Board's  recommendations in document 9C/9 Addendum, The  matter had been thoroughly discussed both by the Board  itself and by its Programme Commission. He there-  fore hoped that the Board's suggestions would be  adopted.
(34) The CHAIRMAN stated that she had no intention  of suggesting the establishment of working parties forth-  with. She was merely calling for comments on the  problem with a view to setting up working parties the  following day.
(35) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) approved the establish-  ment of working parties; the questions that they ‘would  be called upon to examine were indeed such as needed  to be studied by specialists, Nevertheless, he con-  sidered that, contrary to past practice, the parties  should be limited in mumber and small in membership,  He wondered whether the first and second questions,  and possibly perhaps also the third, could not first be  considered by the Legal Committee or by a single  small sub-committee made up of legal specialists  chosen from among the mémbers of the Commission,  With regard to the other three working parties, he was  entirely in agreement with Mr. Thomas and Mr.  Bender.
(36) Mr. BENDER (Netherlands) (Representative of  the Executive Board) pointed out that there were many  aspects other than legal aspects to be considered under  (a) and (b). He did not think it appropriats, therefore,  to refer the matter to the Legal Committee. He be-  lieved that points (a) and (b) might be combined, but  (c) appeared to be a separate matter.
(37) Mr. ANAS (Afghanistan) seconded the delegate of  Lebanon. ‘The membership of the working parties  should be limited to specialists in the fields concerned.
(38) Mr. JORDANA DE POZAS (Spain) said that, it  the working parties were to be efficient, their mem-  bers should be specialists in the fields concerned.  Mixing the membership of each party in that respect  would be a complete reversal of the proper method.  Secondly, reducing the mumber of working parties be-  low a certain point would be tantamount to doing away  with them.
(39) The CHAIRMAN, remarking that the size of the   PROGRAMME COMMISSION  working parties and the proposal to combine certain  subjects would be treated as two separate questions,  requested the Commission to continue the general  discussion on the proposed programme and budget,  GENERAL DISCUSSION (continued)
(40) Mr. PAZUR (Czechoslovakia) entirely approved  the major projects. He considered that the execution  of the one relating to mutual understanding between  East and West was Unesco's best means of serving the  cause of peacc and culture. He hoped in that con-  nexion that the Secretariat's work would have an effect  on the general public, the masses, und not onlÿ on  specialists,  Mr. Pazur went on to say that, in any attempt to  promote better understanding between East and West,  the greater efforts would have to be made by the  latter peoples, for the peoplés of Asia were already  scquainted with many features of Western civilization.  He added that it was necessary to inform the West not  only about the past of the Oriental peoples, their  history and their archaeology, but also about their  present-day problemas, ;  Ini conclusion, he announced that the Czech delega-  tion withdrew its proposal contained in document
9C/DR/30, which had been distributed before docu-  ment 9C/8 Corrigendum 1; the latter dealt at length  with the same projects as his own delegation was  proposing.
(41) Mr, VIANU(Rumania) also approved the three  major projects. He was glad that priority had been  given to free and compulgory primary education,  fundamental education, and the development of pri-  mary education in Latin America, It was, of course,  necessary for primary education to be free and com-  pulsory, but its general provision on that basis de-  pended on various factors. In his country, the prob-  lem had béen solved by the setting up of a large  mmber of educational establishments and teachers’  training colleges, by a substantial increase in  teachers! salaries, and by effective propaganda among  pérents, IR  The preamble to Chapter 1 A of the proposed pro-  gramme referred to the language difficulty. The  Rumanian authorities felt that the just and effective  way of dealing with that difficulty was to use the  child's mother tongue as the medium of instruction at  the primary stdge, and that was done for the 15 mino-  rites included in the population of that country. Mr.  Viamu offered Uneaco and the Member States interes-  ted in the question all the information that had been  collected in Rumania, His Government also offered  teaching materials and school building plans, and  would be glad to arrange for the exchange of informa-  tion and specialists, especially with Latin American  countries. He warmly supported Unesco's project  for sending experts on mission and noted with satis-  faction the possibility of making bilateral arrange-  ments with other Member States.  _ The major project relating to arid zones was of  great interest to Rumania, whose territory included  regions with salt meshes and sandy wastes.  Turning to the major project on East-West under-  standing, Mr. Vianu remarked that the understanding
318  Iv-2  between the peoples of those two halves of the world  was by no means adequate for the demands of modern  life or indeed of ordinary human feeling, The Ruman-  ian people was happy in presenting a synthesis of  Roman culture in the East, and Rumania in being a  door between the East and the West, Mr, Vian asked  Unesco to consider spreading a knowledge of Rumanian  art and literature, not only of worke by great artists  and writers, but also of the living folk-art of his  country. That would be a practical contribution to the  execution of the major project, Generally speaking,  Rumania would warmly welcome any measure calcu-  lated to promote contacte between men.
(42) Mr. SOEBROTO (Indonesia) stated that his dele-  gation was keenly interested in the major project on  mutial appreciation of Eastern and Western cultural  values, and was glad that the delegate of Japan had  emphasized the importance of interpreting the project  to include mutual appreciation betwsen countries within  each of the two areas, To send cultural missions to  other countries was a costly business, and Indonesia  wae eager to see what lesser projects could be carried  out within the framework of the major project,
(43) Mr. SIH (China) proposed to limit his remarks to  the major project on mutual appreciation of Eastern  and Western cultural values, China was ready to sup-  port Japan's proposal to ask the Director-General to  set up some advisory body to advise on ‘he planning of  the major project. In view of the urgency of the  matter and the budgetary increase adopted by the Con-  ference, the Chinese delegation moved thut the advi-  sory body concerned be established during the current  session of the General Conference.
(44) Mr, DIAZ-GONZALEZ (Venezuela) found the draft  programme and budget for 1957-1958 completely  unexceptionable, and viewed with particular interest  and approval the major projects on the extension of  primary education in Latin America and on mutual  appreciation of Eastern and Western cultural values.  The first of those projects was perfectly in lirie with  the recommendations made to Unesco by the Lima Con-  ference on free and compulsory primary education held  the preceding April, while the second would undoubtedly  contribute to laying the intellectual and moral founda-  tions for a sense of true fellowship throughout mankind,  calculated to lead to peace throughout the world,
(45) Mr. FLORKIN (Beigiim) sympathized witu the -  French delegation's anxiety that a proper balance  should be maintained between special and general acti-  vities, but stated that his delegation was satisfied with  the balance already achieved. A fair amount of flexi-  bility was necessary, for many special activities would  later come to be included under general activities.  Mr. Florkin had a general observation to make on the  planning of the major projects, Activities had been  organized in that manner because it had been found  that they had come to maturity after à more or less  lengthy period of preliminary experimental work: such,  for instance, wis the case with the arid zone project  and the one relating to Latin America.  He did not think, however, that the East- West pro-  ject had yet reached the same stage of maturity,  though the enthusiasm it aroused was à guarantee of   IV-3 PROGRAMME  its success. It was important to move very cautiously  in the first stage of its execution, for it was perhaps  the most important of all the projects that Unesco had  undertaken, It demanded much more careful prepara-  tion than the two others, for if a real understanding  was to be achieved, it would be necessary to get down  to the roots of two humanistic conceptions of extremely  different kinds, Belgium would collaborate in that  effort to the full extent of its capa ities,  Mr, Florkin observed in conclusiva that, with the  major project in question, Unesco was entering a new  sphere, was facing a problem of a new order.  . (46) The CHAIRMAN invited the observer of the World  Federation of Trade Unions to say a few words.
(47) Miss LEVY (World Federation of Trade Unions)  observed that in the modern world workers in all  countries were taking an ever increasing part in cul-  tural life, It was surprising that in Unesco's vast  programme so small a share had been allotted to  workers, and that only a few very limited activities  had been devoted to them,  Workers! travel, in particular, was extremely  Oo     OMMIBBION  fruitful both for those actually taking part and for their  friends and acquaintances; but four out of five applice-  tions had to be rejected, although the experts meeting  at La Brévière in 1953 had recommended that the -  activity should no longer be considered purely experi-  mental. Miss Levy realized that it was difficult to  organize travel on a very large scale, bus it would be  well to take advantage of every possibillly of extending  it, more particularly between continents; :  There was also a cut in the estimates fur adult:  education. Nothing seemed to have been provided for  Africa in the programme, and very little for women's  education. The discrimination from which women .  still suffered in the educational sphere was very real;  the Director-General himself, in paragraph 79 of his :  report for 1955, had drawn attention to one case, Unesco  should make a great effort to see that women had oppor-  tunities for education according to their abilities,  In conclusion, Miss Levy wished to reaffirm that the  World Federation of Trade Unions continued to offer  Unesco its full support.  The meeting rose at 6.15 p.m.  THIRD MEETING
14 November 1956, at 10.30 a.m.  Chairman: Mrs. MYRDAL (Sweden)
(1) The CHAIRMAN stated that the business before  the Programme Commission was: (1) p, final discus-  sion on the time-limit for the presentation of pro-  posals related. to the major projects; thé represen-  tative of the Director-General would explain the  implications of the decision the Conference had taken  in that connexion; (2) consideration of the report of  the Committee on Reports of Member States; (3) a  statement on co-ordination by the United Nations re-  presentative; (4) discussion and decision as to the  mumber of working parties to be set up by the  Commission.  THSE-LAET FOR THE PRESENTATION OF PROPOSALS RELATING  TO MAJOR PROJECTS
(2) Mr, "THOMAS (Assistant Director- -General) re-  minded the Commission that the Gehéral Conference  had decided on the previous day to suspend the rulés  on time-limits for the submission of draft resolutions  and amendments with budgetary implications, The  relaxation applied exclusively to proposals relating to  the three major projects. ' The Conference had asked  for the views of the Programme Commission before °  deciding on the new flhal date fér the submission of  draft resolutions and Mr. Thomas thought that a
316  reasonable one would be the evening of Friday, 16  November,
(3) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) secohded that proposal.
(4) Mr. REIMERS (Federal Republic ef Germany) ‘  asked whether the new time-limit was restricted to  proposals concerning the three major projects; he wis  under the impression that the new ruling had a more  general character.
(5) Mr, THOMAS (Assistant biréctor-Genéral) éca,  firmed that the Japañese motion adopted by the plenery  meeting of the Conferéncé referred only to draft reso-  lutions in connexion with the three major projects,  So far as the proposals appearing in the Annex to  document 9C/s Corrigendum 1 were concerned, any  delegation was entitled to take them ip on its own  account and submit them fo the Programmé Cominis-'  sion, and it would be helpful to fix a final date for  delegations to announce their intention of doing so.
(6) Mr. RAADI (Iran) thought that, if there were still  any doubt about the force of the Japanese motion ‘©.  adopted in plénary meeting the previous day, it was for  the General Coinmittee to settle it. He agreed with  Mr. Thomas that it would be well to lay down à final