v-30 PROGRAMMER COOMMISSION  | THIRTIETH MEETING  _ 30 November 1956, at 9,50 a.m,  Chairman; Mrs. MYRDAL (Sweden)
(1) Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General)  explained the bydgetary situation. In accordance with  the Commission's previous decisions, $ 665, 209 of  the additional $1, 000, 000 had already been allocate d;  of that amount $231, 599 represented sums not  included in document 9C/5 Corrigendum 4.  ITEM 02 OF THE AGENDA : NATURAL ÉCRENCES (continood)  (ocaments 80/3 asd Addenda and Currigside)
2,2 Improvement of Scieptific Documentation (para-  graphs 25 to 34 and documents 9C/DR/14 and 31)  @) “The CHAIRMAN called attention to the draft  resolutions submitted by the French delegation  (document 9C/DR/14) and by thé delegation of  Czechoslovakia (document 9C/DR/31) in connexion  with that section. In order to expedite the Commis-  sion's work, she proposed to limit the discussion to  two speakers in favour and two against,
(3) Mr, AUGER’ (Director, Department ‘of Natural  Sciences) pointed out that draft resolution 9C/DR/ 14  proposad by France, advocating a committee of  experts to study the state of scientific documentation  throughout the world, ‘would involye an additional  expenditure of § 10,’ 000," He stated that Unesco was’  at the momi¢nt ‘wor d hs a similar project and that  several appropriate on-goverimental ‘organizations  (Américèn Documentation Institute, International  Federation of Library “Associations, etc, ) had beén  approached with a View ‘Ko reaching an agreement and  drawing up & work plan; ‘the éjrôtiations, under way  should culsilhate in the holding of an inférnationa!  conference où scientitis documentation methods in
1950-1060, The French proposal would therefore  mean ipedding up that ‘process, as i advocated  convening a committee in’ 1987. ° X i  . Draft resolution 9C/DR/31, proposed by Csecho-  slovakd=; had no budgetary iniplications. ‘It did not |  introduce any really new features into thé programme,  as Unbsco was ‘already promoting’ éxchangés of ‘  ’ techhical informiation through its Sciencé Co-operation  Offices and the various activities mentioned under the  heading “Improvement o Scientific Documentation".
(4) vs CHAIRMAN took it nat he ‘ntytion of the  Czechoslovak’ draft resolution had been accepted by  Ier te  a vote on hat resolution,  She would be glad to know {rom the énlogate of France
480  whether, in the light of its budgetary implications, he  wished to maintain his proposal.
(5) Mr, BAYEN- (France) urged taking up draft’  resolution’ 9C/DR/14 as speedily as possible; It was  a matter of urgency to reach an agreement ou. -  scientific information methods sc'as to save research  workers! time arid money, The current practice of  somé reviews was to give an author's summary aftér  the title of the works listed, together with the refer-  ence number of any existing microfilm. That example  should be followed and something should be done to’  cut down to two or three months the time elapsing  between publication of a scientific paper and its  communication to foreign countries.
(6) The CHAIRMAN noted that the French draft  resolution had been duly seconded.
(7) Mr. KATETOV (Czechoslovakia) supported dratt  resolution 9C/DR/14, He was glad to learn that draft  resolution 9C/DR/31 submitted by his delegation would  not involve any additional expenditure and said that he  therefore would not press for a formal vote on that  draft.
(8) Mr, SPILHAUS (United States of America) did not  suppose that any acientist could be opposed to the  objective of the French proposal, and indeed he  warmly applauded it, He would, however, point oat  that Unesco already granted ‘subventions to the Inter-  national Federation of Library Associations and the  International Federation for Documentation which were  intended to pursue the very purpose which motivated  the French draft resolution, The Unitéd Nations  Technical Assistancé Programme also performed work  in that ‘field, and a number of informal bilateral  programmes existed between many countries to that  end, :In fact, the problem facing Unesco was not Mig  different irom that facing individual countries, He  could not therefore support the French proposal to set  up & new agency which would duplicate the activities ‘of  others, IE ‘
(9) ‘Mr. BOURGEOIS  witherland) supported draft -  resolution 8C/DR/14. He mentioned that it was a |  problem of concern fo bodied dealing witli bibliography  and dre attention to the existence of à directory of.  centres able to supply ‘microtilins, In his opinion, the  committee of experts which it was ‘proposed to. courene  shr iid decide, :among other things, whether it .  was really necessary to set up a new body. It should  also consider the copyright problems sometimes  raised by the production of microtikins. Mr. Bourgeols  felt that the International Advisory Commission on  Bibliography should decide what procedure should be  followed in order to do something practical, along   PROGRAMME COMMISSION IV-30  “the lines viggented | fn The French recommendfion,
(10) Mr, THOMAS’ ‘(Aosistani Btractor-Gééral)  confirmed that the International Advisory Committee  on ; Bibliography was ‘concerned with ‘that problera à and  had already explored the ground to somé extent, If  the representative of France had no objection, the  proposal embodied in document 9C/DR/14 might be  comminicated t o that Comimittes, which would state  whether it recommended the convening of a  committee of experts.
(11) Mr, BAYEN (France) : referred to the impos-  sibility, to date, of resching international agreement  on certain probletns, despite the ‘existence of the  specialized bodies Just mentioned. There wis no  queption’of doing away with existing facilities, but  on some problems it would be ‘desirable to arrange  » for broad international consultation i any agreement  was to be reached,
2) Mr, AUGER (pirectér, 1 Department of Natural  Sciences) e xplained, ‘in reply to a query from the  Canadian representative, that, as the programme  made no provision for a committeé of experts, an  additional $10, 000 would be needed to convene it,
(13) Mr. TRIKOJUS (Australia) said that, while he  agreed with the French proposal in principle, it was  . important not to overlook the existence of the  International Advisory Committee for Documentation  and Terminology in the Pure and Applied Sciences  . which had been set up by Unesco. He would there-  fore not favour the convening of a committee of  experts,  - (14) Mr, LORTIE (Canada) seconded those remarks.
(15) Mr, AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) pointed out that the International Advisory  - Committee for Documentation and Terminology in  the Purè and Applied Sciences would be meeting in
1958 (document 9C/6, Chapter 2, paragraph 27) and  . that it could be asked to consider the question raised  du the French draft resolution,
(16) Mr, BAYEN France) accepted that suggestion.
(1) Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland) thought tbe |  ‘_ question so general as to be more within the purview  “ol the International Advisory Committes on Biblio-  - graphy.
(16) Mr, AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) agreed that it was a question of concern to  both bodies and abould be referred to both, -  Mgr dec ‘
19), ‘The CHAIRMAN said, that, + there, was ‘general  _agresment ou the procedure to be followed, there  . would be no need for the Commission io vote on the  milter, A reference to the: ‘subject would be included  da the report. ‘  ‘a Resolution 2, 21 was adopted, with 2 sbatantions.
3  pi. Contribution to scientific research (paragraphs
35°16 89 and documents ve/PRa/1, selon; a  and 78)
(21) The CHAIRMAN invited the Commission to  consider parigraphs 38 to ou that dection.. vo
(23) Mr, AUGER (Diéector, Department of Natural.  : Sciences) reminded the Corbmission that if had to -  consider the amended version of résolution 2, 31  (docuinent 80/5, Chapter. 3," paragraph 30), : ‘  amendnients to the work plan necessitated by recent  events; and various ‘draft resolutions concerning  atomic energy,” He aiid that thé budgetary corrections  to document 8C/5, Corrigendum 4, were contained in  a working paper which had Just been distributed. That  paper also mentioned thé amendment to resolution
2.31, paragraph (F), té which the words "and atomic  energy” should be added, Participation in Member  States ‘activities ‘would include the loan of equipment  for the standardization of instruments for the .  measurement of ionising radiations, and the sending  of an expert to be responsible for its operation.  ( 23) Mr: NIELSEN (Denmark) (Representative of the  Executive Board) drew attention to the decisions  adopted by the Exécutive Board in respect of the  peaceful uses of atomic energy, namely, resolution
8,5.1 at its 42nd session, resolution 7. 4. 2 at its -
43rd session and resolution 9, 2, 2 at its 44th session,  At its 45th session, immediately preceding the  current session of the General Conference, the Board  had studied the Director-General's report (document
9C/PRG/1) and had presented its recommendations  thereon.
(24) Mr. BENDER (Netherlands) suggested that help  might be extended to the International Union tor the  Protection of Nature, under the provisions of resolution
2.81, for research into the effect of hydro-electric  dams on flora and fauna,
(25) The CHAIRMAN noted that a new subvention had  already been voted to that organization, which could  be used for. that purpose.
(36) Mr. SILARD (Rumania) said that bis delegation  attached great importance to, scientific research  generally but that he would, . ‘in order, to expadite the  Commission's work, confine his remarks. to the  peaceful uses of atomic energy, which would have  such a tremendous impact on the cultural and  economic development of mankind,  It was much to be. “regretted that no international  instrument had us yst been ‘ndopted banning t the  production of atomic weapons, and that Unesco had  not itself adopted 4 à more Positive stand in that  respect. ERA [TE  His coulry bad ‘rich re edourcos of dranfuin’ and vas  energy | progrimine, A carrying out a broad atomic «         .auclear reactor of à, 000, kilowaits Was undef con-  struction and would be complated in à few months!  time as part of à wider plan, He thought that .  Unesco's activities in the field of the peaceful uses  ) should be Saini. the scope of  à great that it was ibreallitic tp  consider that tb) creation of the International Atomic  Energy Agency, would obviate the need for international
1v-30 PROGRAMME  co-operation in that sphere by other bodies. He urged  the Commission to give the draft resolution submitted  by Czechoslovakia serious consideration.
(27) Mr, KATETOV (Crechoslovakia) drew aitention  to the very serious biological consequences that  might arise from the use of atomic energy. The’  social implications would also have to be studied, and  international co-operation in that field was essential  in order to bring about any easing of tension and to  achieve Unesco's dims, In proposing draft resolution
9C/DR/29, the Czechoslovak delegation wished to  stress the importance of that problem and to suggest  methods for use in that field,
(28) The CHAIRMAN called the attention ‘of the  delegate of Czechoslovakia to the fact that parts of  his drafi resolution coincided to a considerable  extent with the provisions of resolutions 2, 31 and
3.04 (both texts as given in document 9C/5  Corrigendum.1, pages 26 and 36 respectively). From  a purely procedural ‘standpoint, it would appear  preferable for the Czechoslovak delegate to reframe  his proposal as an amendment to resolution 2.31,
(29) Mr, PANTAZIS (Greece) wondered how far the  activities proposed in respect of Unesco would  duplicate those of the new Agency set up by the  United Nations. He would welcome clarification on  that point from the Director of the Department.
(30) Mr, TOROCHESHNIKOV (Uniôn of Soviet  Socialist Republics) supported the proposals sub-  mitted on the subject of the peaceful uses of atomic  energy, He was somewhat surprised that the rep-  resentative cf the United Kingdom had spoken against  those proposals, since that country was in thé .. -  ‘process of applying atomic energy in industry. It.  was qssential to provide for Unesco's participation  in Mamber States’ activities in'that field. He was  in agreement with the measures proposed for inter-  national co-operation in the training of specialists  in the peaceful uses of atomic energy. The Union  of Soviet Socialist Républiés was prepared to share  its experience in the training of the said specialists,  Mr. Torocheshnikov also’ supported the Rumanian  proposal for the prohibition of aténiic weapons, : ‘He  thought draft resolution’ 8C/DR/2 29 submitted by  Czechoalovakia contained a nymber of new broposals,  especially as regarded Unesco's cooperation ‘with  all organitations dealing with ‘the subject of atomic  energy. In that field, the international scientific -  research institute on atomic énergy existing in the  USSR ‘could give Unesco valuable support. Inter  national conferences such as the atomic energy  conférence held in 1955 in Geneva furthered the  exchange of information, On the other hand, it was  very tinportant to spread information on atomic  énergy questions in popular form but on a sound  scientific basis. Too Little bad so far been done in  that sphere,
(31) Mr, KATETOV (Crechioalovakia) thought that  “ draft résolution 9C/DR/29, proposed by his  delegation, did not overlap with resolution 3:94   (docunient 9C/$ Corrigendum 1) and that ft sup-  plemented resolution 2,31 in'a useful way,
482  COMMISSION
(82) Mr, VITO (Italy) said {hat by his country had always  held the view - S/d ‘i had on several occasions  expressed by suggestions to the Executive Board -  that Unesco should play a ‘most active rôle in  developing the peaceful uses of atomic energy, ;  Such work was in direct relation with Unesco's  activities and could do much to contribute towards  the promotion of social progress, Therefore, his  delegation believed that Unesco's action should go  beyond merely meeting the requests of Membe  States, and should be undertaken in more positive  and direct form,
(33) Mr. AUGER (Direcior, Department of Natural  Sciences) wished to reassure members of the’  Commission in the matter of ‘collaboration between  Unesco and the newly established Atomic Energy’  Agency, He mentioned that Unesco already bad  very good working relations with other ‘organisations  active in the field of the natural sciences, such as  the Food and Agriculture Organization, the World  Health Organization and the World Meteorological  Organization, . It was agreed that Unesco should  deal with basic sciencé and the training of young  people for scientific research, research in  specialized fields being the responsibility of the  other organizations.  Similar co-operation would be established between  Unesco and the International Atomic Energy Agency  once the latter had begun operations and defined its  field of action, The Agency was no threat to the  existence of the European Organization for Nuclear  Research and other institutions concerned with  basic research. For instance, Unesco was shortly  to convene a general conference on the use of radio-  isotopes in scientific research, and the Agency  might subsequently study ths applications of isotopes  and convene a general conference on the training of  atomic energy specialists,
(34) The CHAIRMAN made it clear that she had  taken no position regarding the content of the  ‘resolution, which could be dealt with as a recom-  mendation for an additional work plan.  Cur. A , R
(35) Mr, AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) emphasized that, while draft resolution
9C/DR/29 covered much the same ground as  resolution 2, 31, its paragraph 8 brought up questions  not within the province of the Department of Natural  Sciences; such as social and ethical questions, which  came under the social sciences, and health, which  was the concern ot WHO.  . Az ~ :
(36) Mr, LEE (United States of Aimerics) said that  the Commisoiôri was faced with & complex aid -  highly significant problem, which it would have to  consider within the traïnework of à basic set of i:  principles.” It wis’ above all important to keep in  mind the féét that the Commission was studying  natural aéiences and that, accordingly, matter  which related to social sciences or which was of -  a political nature was inappropriate in the context.  Moreover, Unesco should not overlook the need  for co-ordinating its activities in that field with  other programmes, particularly the developing  programme in the United Nations, The desirability   PROGRAMME COMMISSION  of a carefully considered, integrated programme with-  id the Organization {ise} should be constantly borne  in mind and, while the purposes set out in the  Csechoslovak and Polish draft resolutions were  desirable in themselves, they would confuse that  integrated programme.  He then made thé following statement: on the Polish  draft resolution (document 9C/DR/95) which he  requested should appear in full in the minutes of the  meeting:  "The United States delegation is strongly opposed  to the draft resolution subiniited by the Polish dele-  gation, The action demanded of the Diréctor-Géneral,  namely to promote the abolition of ‘éxtaling embargoes,  involves basic economic, political and security -  probleras which are entirély outaidé the tompetency  of this Organization, Some c! these questions are  the statutory responsibility of other organizations,  including that of thé International Atomic Energy  Agency. A resolution of the kind proposed by the  Polish delegation would therefore constitute an’  intrusion upon the prerogatives of othèr bodies and an  intervention by Unesco in an area of international  conduct which is regulated by multilateral and bi-  laterai agreements. we do’ not believe, therefore,  that the approach chosen by the Polish delegation to  further exchangés in the field of nuclear research is  either proper or practical. ’  However, 1 alsd wish t6'méké clear that the United  States of America is merely opposed to the method  chosen by the Polish delegation. We favour whole-  heartedly the development of positive programmes and  projects intended to encourage co-operation : and  exchange of "information end personnel to promote  peaceful uses of atomic energy, and we support  specifically those parts of the progratimé’ suggested  “by thé Director-Genéral for 1957-1958 which lead to  facilitating the transport’ and distribution of radic-  Isotopes for scientific research. This is fully in  accordance with official United States policy,’ a policy  which was inaugurated lang before the Iii{zrnational  Atomic Energy Agency chime into being. In pürsuance  of this policy, the United States of América has ton-  _cluded agreements with 37 nations,” providing tor the  exchange, of information on the peacetul uses of atomic  energy to build research reactors’ ‘and power teactors.  Scores ét. students from friendly’ countries have been  trained in technical schools set up by our Atomic  Energy Comimisaion, We have ‘declared our ‘willing-  ness to share one half the cost of research reactors  to be built by other nations. We initiated the largest  scientific congress ever held, in which avery. large  amount of atomic information was exchanged. During  the years 1954, 1955 and 1956, a total of 40, 200  kilograms ot fissionable material. were aliocated by  the President for research and power reactors in  the United States of America and abroad. Our  Government has announced to thé Colombo Plan |  nations, who met in Singapore last year, that it would  support an Asian Nuclear. Research Centre for the |  training of scientists. and engineers in the Far East,  Plans have already been formulated for this Research  Centre to be located in Manila, Our Atomic Energy  Commission is assisting in the establishment of a  research and training centre at the University of  Puerto Rico. The instruction and training will be  given in the Spanish language so that students from
483     IV-30  Latin American countries may specially. benefit.  Furthermore, ‘our Atomic Energy Commis sion, in  co-operation with the Organization’ of American |  States, has initiated a programmé ‘ot assistance to  the Inter-American Institute of Agricultural Sciences  in Costu Rica, Now plans have been announced by! the  United Statés Government for an Inter-American” *  Symposium on Puaceful Uses of Atomié Energy,’ to be  held in May 1957 in thé United States of América.  Finally, upon the Initiative of United States vep-"  resentatives, 12 nations, “including the Union of  Soviet Socialist Republics, have met in Washington  early this year and have drafted the statute’ of the -  International Atomic Energy . Agency. Delegates from
02 nations agreed,’ on 23 October,” at'a conferonce in  New York City," to ‘accept this charter,’ ‘The purpose  of all these measires was defined by President’  Eisenhower whéri he sald tht: ' We shall sirive ‘  ceaselessly to attain the day when the uses of the  atom fultil mankind's peice ful irposés!, :  I have beer sé specific in TA ing the activities of  the United States Government because r want. it to be  understood that the United States’ delegation shares  with ali the other ‘délégations | the ‘profound concern  that the tremendous powèr now in the hands of ‘man  will not be diverted for warlike purposes, but will  be made to cerve the cause of peace. I also wanted  to make clear that my Government has backed up this  principal decision with practicil, far-réaching  measures intended to spread the benefits of nuclear  power as wide'as possible,  The United States delegation is convinced that ways  and means can and must be found to implement the  programme proposals of the Director-General L.  promptly and effectively and through the enlistment:  of resources uccessible to Unesco and to the Member  States, and that it will not be necessary to involve  this body in political marioeuvres outside its jurisdiction,  in order to achieve the objectives which we all desire."
(37) Mr. BAYEN (France) was’ in favour of adopting  draft résolution 9C/DR/29, even though some of the  ideas contained in it were embodied in resolution
2.31. He stated that France, which did not papdagiure  bases of fundamental atomic energy teaching at the  university level, so as to overcome the difficulties of  the complicated terminology used by siomic scientists,
(38) Mr, ; AUGER Bisctor, Denise Li pis  Terminology, which wes to. meet In 1958, : would have  a broad programme of work and, would, deal with: the  problems which the” ‘French delegation had in mind,  In the field of scientific’ research, a conference. was  to be held on the use “of radiorisolopes, which was  the chief problem for the time being:. Instead of  amending resolution 2,31, it would be sufficient for  the Commission to state in its report that it wished  the Director-General to givé the necessary emphasis  to Unesco's work in the field of atomic energy, in,  consultation with the other Specialized Agencies,   IV-80 PROGRAMME
(39) Mr, THOMAS (Assistant Director-General),  referring to the last paragraph of draft resolution
3C/DR/ T5, proposed by Poland, explained that the  Director-General had no power to indice any Member  State to take or to refrain from any, particular course  of action, but thai the General Conference could make  use of the special procedure of recommendations to  Member States, it was a fairly lengthy procedure,  necessitating the preliminary action laid down in the  Rules of Procedure adopted by the Conference for the  preparation of international regulations.
(40) Sir Chatles DARWIN (United Kingdom) wished to  clarify his delegation's position further, He had  already emphasized the importance he aftached to the  question of the peaceful uses of atomic energy. None  the less, taking into account Unesco's budgetary  difficulties, his delegation, ‘while prepared to accept  the Director-General's proposals for the time being,  would urge him to take all possible precautions to  protect the Organization's’ budget and to ensure that  the International Atomic Energy Agency and the other  Specialized Agencies’ concerned undertook all those  activities which most directly concerned them, so that  Unesco ‘would be free to devote itself to other tasks  which were more specifically the duty of Unesco alone.  Unesco should thus look forward to a contraction in  its future work in that field,  He was sure that there was general agreement on  the principle of the draft resolution submitted by  Czechoslovakia, and it should be left to the Director-  General to implement it to the extent he found  possible,
(41) Mr, TOROCHESHNIKOV (Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics) was amazed at the criticism of  the draft resolutions submitted by the Czechoslovak  and Polish delegations, which were in fact designed  to reconcile opposing points of view and to help ~~  Unesco to concentrate all efforts on “the ‘development  of work on the peaceful uses of atomic energy. In  order to solve that problem, the proposals contained  in thé Czechoslovak and Polish resolutions should be  adopted, It was impossible to accept the view of the  United States répresentative, which was that Unesco  should undertake no activities in the field of the  peaceful uses of atomic energy on the grounds that  there was a co-ordinated United Nations plan on the  subject.
(42) Mr. PNIEWSKI (Poland) wished to comment on  the question purely from the point of view of a  scientist and physicist. He would readily admit that  Unesco's achievements in the natural sciences had  shown grédt progress. Thé important task now was to  open the way to scientific progress in some countries  by enabling them to buy certain simple instruments,  somèétimes quité stañdard instruments, which they  could not do at the moment owing to export  restrictions, He had attended a conference of  scientists during the current year in Stockholm, where  he had heard expressions of surprise that such  restrictions still existed.  There was a crying need for training scientists  and for laboratories. To send scientists to train  &broad entirely was not a satisfactory solution, and  there was every reason for countries to help each
484     COMMISSICN  other in obtaining the basic equipment necessary in  the training of atomic sclontists and in carrying out  research in universities,  He sincerely hoped that the draft resolution that  his delegation had submitted would be approved. He  would be prepared to amend the word "convincing"  in the final paragraph if that would meet any  objection, and would cotsider any amendments which  would make the text acceptable.
(43) The CHAIRMAN proposed that, in view of the  statement made by the representative of the Director- -  General to the effect that the draft resolution was  constitutionally unacceptable, consideration of the  proposal should be deferred until the following day;  possibly, during that interval, the delegate of  Poland would be able to reframe his motion in order  to comply with the procedure required,  She asked the delegate of Czechoslovakia whether  he wished to maintain his draft resolution in the form  in which it stood or whether he would be prepared to  submit it in the form of a recommendation for a work  play,
(44) Mr, NAGAI (Japan) recalled the resolutions on  the peaceful uses of atomic energy adopted by the  Regional Conference of Unesco recently held in  Tokyo. His delegation would therefore support the  proposed programme of the Director-General in that  respect, and would particularly emphasize the need  for the training of specialists and teachers,
(45) Mr. KATETOV (Czechoslovakia) preferred to  submit his proposal as a resolution rather than as a  recommendation concerning the work plan. He tolt  that thé substance of the draft raised no objection and  that it was preferable to have something more specific  than the very general wording of resolution 2. 31, He  agreed to delete the words "society, ethics" and  pointed out that the Russian text did not refer  precisely to "health' but to the biological consequences  of the use of atomic energy.
(46) Mr, LEE (United States’ of America) considered  it essential to avoid involving Unesco in matters which  went beyond its competence. He proposed the following  amendments to the Czechoslovak draft resolution: ‘  (a) the deletion of the second sentence in paragraph
(2); (b) the deletion of the words "ethics and health"  in paragraph (6).
(47) Mr, TRIKOJUS (Australia) seconded those  amendments,
(48) Mr, KATETOV (Czechoslovakia) thought the  proposed amendment to paragraph (6) of his draft  perfactly acceptable. He suggested the following  wording: "to organize research work and assist in  its execution, with a view to shedding light on the  biological consequences of the use of atomic energy".  So far as paragraph (2) was concerned, he saw no  need for deleting a sentence which was simply a  statement of fact.
(49) Mr. LEE (United States of América) was unable  to withdraw his amendment to paragraph (2) as the  sentence seemed to him not only irrelevant but   PROGRAMME CONNISSION v-$0  inaccurate, He found it hard to discuss possible  changes in paragraph (6) if they were not before him
(80) The United States ameudment to paragraph (2)  of the Czechoslovak draft resolution was adopted by
26 votes to 9, with 6 abstentions,
151) The United States amendment to paragraph (6)  was adopted by 27 votes to 7, with 10 abstentions,
(52) The Czechoslovak draft resolution (document
9C/DR/ 20), as amended, was adopted by 37 votes  to none, with 5 abstentions,
(58) Mr, AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) mentioned that the words "and atomic  energy" were to be added to resolution 2,31 (F),  so as to enable the programme of Participation in  Member States‘ activities to be carried out in that
(54) Resolution 2,31 (as revised in document 9C/5  Corrigendum 1) was adopted unanimously.
(85) The CHAIRMAN noted that no specific proposals  had been received in respect of paragraphs 45 to 51,  Cell biology. She opened the discussion on that  subject,
(56) Dr, KHANOLKAR (Council for International  Organizations of Medical Sciences) said that it had  been generally recognized that Unesco should do  little in the way of direct material assistance but  should seek to build up international machinery for  research on cell biology. . He calied particular  attention to paragraph 45, which’ referred to the  creation of an International Commission for Cell  Biology, which body would be rusponsible for  constantly reviewing co-operation between existing  international bodies.’ . Paragraph 49, which referred  to the establishment of laboratories for breeding  pure strains of animals for research in cell biology,  was particularly significant and a long called for  development, as biology lagged far behind the other  sciences in having the best possible material on  which to base its studies,
(87) Mr, TRIKOJUS (Australia) said that, ‘while all  the recommendations were important, Unesco should  necessarily concentrate on those aspects of the  subject which had in the ‘past been {nadequately’  catered for, The funds Unesco would be able to  allocate to such centres were relatively so small  that the entire question should be envisaged with the  greatest caution, He drew attention to the existence  of an institution’ in the United States’ of America  which was in tact ‘devoted to breeding pure strains  of animals for research work, and wondered’ whether  it was Unesca's intention to set up a siniilar centre  in Europe. If s0, the matter was one which con-  cerned interested Member States, and any Unesco  assistance should preferably be in the form of  fellowships. He would be glad of some clarification  of the exact position {n that respect.
(58) Mr. TOROCHESHNIKOV (Union of Soviet
485     Socialist Republics) was pleased to note that the  programme included a section on cell biology; he  did not quite see, however, how centres for the  tretning of spécialisés: in that subject could be set  up (paragraph 48). He thought that training based  on the latest progress in that subject should be  given in existing universities, with due regard to  the recommendations of the International Commis-  sion on Cell Biology,
(69) Mr, LEE (United States of America) said he  would welcome information on the precise rôle it  was intended Unesco should play,
(60) Mr. LORTIE (Canada), referring to the same  point as the Soviet representative, thought it most  useful to set up an International Commission on Cell  Biology, but was disturbed about the work mentioned  in paragraphs 48 and 49, which, he felt, would mean  Unesco's departing from ita true rôle, without being  able to achieve any substantial result,
(61) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) informed the representative of Canada that  the paragraphs in question had been based on the  report of the Study Group on Cell Growth convened  by Unesco (document NS/CNR/8, page 6).
(62) Mr, ESTABLE (Uruguay) said that in principle he  supported the convening of a meeting of experts on  cell growth and the establishment of an institute for  the study of plants and animals to ‘be supplied to  research laboratories concerned with normal and  abnormal growth. He thought that in that field  Unesco should provide guidance rather than take any  direct action. He added that he had been amazed at  the headway made in cell growth studies over a short  space of time in ihe light of recent discoveries. The  progress of science made it advisable to set up :  centres for the study of new scientific techniques;  but he urged that great care be taken, as it was à  field in which specialists in various branches of  science would have to work together, and co-  ordination was necessary in order to void the  danger of overlapping. .  He thought it essential to carry out work in that  field and announced the Uruguayan delegation's  readiness to lend itv assistance, in view of the  importance it astribüted to cell biology.
(63) Mr. BALIGA (India) said that there could be no  doubt as to the desirability of encouraglñg study’ in  cell biology; the question was rather how far Unesco  could go in that direction with the resources at iis  disposal. It was, however, important to make a  start and Unesço should at least give such studies  {ts moral support.
(64) Mr, LORTIE (Canada) wished to know what  organizations and experts would sei've on the Inter-  national Commission for Cell Biology.
(65) Mr. SAMBURSKI (Israel) was particularly"  interested fn paragraph 49. He believed that many _  countries, including his own, were in urgent need  of international assistance for developing pure strains  of animals for research purposss, and Unesco   IV-30 PROGRAMME  assistance in that regard would be most valuable.
(68) Mr, AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) éxplained that the Commission for Cell  Biology Would be éstablished in consultation with  appropriate international organizations, such as the  Council for Interpational Organizations of Medical  Sciences, the Union of Biological Sciences and the  Union of Physiological Sciences, FAO and WHO would  of course be represented, as well as scientists  specialising in the branches of study concerned,
(67) The CHAIRMAN noted that the paragraphs on  cell biology had been generally approved, She  invited the Commission {6 consider the remainder of  the section on "Contribution té scientific research",  namely, the items referring to thé humid tropical  sone, marins sciences, and Participation in Member  States! activities, She called attention to the revisions  contained in document 9C/5 Corrigendum 1, as well  as to the provision of $8, 000 for new cources of  energy, contained in the Director-General's new  proposals (document 9C/5 Corrigendum 4, page 5).  There was also a draft resolution submitted by the  delegation of Korea regarding the science mission  to the Republic of Korea (document 9C/DR/ 41),
(68) Mr, AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) explained that, as stated in the document  concerning modifications to the ‘work plan, it was  proposed to add, ‘after paragraph 57, a new paragraph  relating to new soufcés of energy, | ‘ °  He pointed out that Korea would be able to receive  aid under thé programme of Participation in Member  States! activities, provided that it applied for such  aid in one of the fields specified in the programme,  such as humid tropics research (paragraph 58), The  mission requested In document 9C/DR/41 would  involve an additional expenditure of $19, 000 over and  above the $40, 000 allocated cach year for Participa-  tion in Member States! activities,  {69) My, NIELSEN (Denmark) {Representative of the  Executive Board), referring to the action on the  matters under consideration taken by the Board since  the eighth session of the Geaeral Confererce, drew  attention to its resolution 8,5.2, adopted at the 42nd  session, provisionally approving the Draft Statutes of  the International Advisory Committee on Marine  Sciences, and to resolution 8.2, 1, adopted at its 44th  session, approving on à similar basis the Draft  Statutes of the International Advisory Committee for  Humid Tropics Research. '
(70) Mr. NAGAI (Japan) recalled that the Regional  Conference in Tokyo had discussed marine sciences  and had pointed to the need for a study of the Indian  Ocean in particular, in respect of which adequate  information was lacking, It had been considered,  consequently, that such research should be instigated,  and that it would also provide valuable training for  young ocsanographers. The problem was urgent, and  he would welcome intensive action by Unesco in that  sphere.
(71) Mr. TENA ARTIGAS (Spain) commented on  paragraph 55 of document 9C/5, relating to marine  COMMISSION  biology. He had no objection to the conclusion if  contracts with research inatitutes for the carrying  out of projects selected by the Advisory Coramittee,  but he was less in favour cf the part relating to .  reports, as they were not always of much use, In his  opinion, it would be preferable to award subveations  to existing marine biology centres which had proved  their worth instead of setting «side funds for the  establishment of new centres,’
(72) Mr, TRIKOJUS (Australia) supported the |  project on thé humid tropical zone as the natural ©  counterpart of work in the arid sones, The problem  concerned many countries;: and it would therefore  seem desirable that such work should be amplified  into à major project as interest in work with regard  to arid zones gradually declined, He would say that  the humid tropical zone project ehould be considered  as a priority above marine sciences, not only because  of the countries involved but also because the matter  had not had the benefit of being éxaminod by regional  bodies, as was the case with marine sciences,
(73) Mr, NIELSEN (Denmark) said that his country  was particularly interested in a scheme to equip a  ship for marine research and had considered it:  important to raise the matter, as it would impose a  heavy financial strain on the resources of national  scientific organizations, He suggested that thé’:  Director-General contact Member States with a view  to ascertaining whether they were interested in’  participating in sucha project, which would be con-  ducted for purely physical and biological research and  would also pay particular attention to study in the Indian  Ocean, Unesco's responsibility in the matter would be  to initiate co-operation and make an initial small  provision in'the 1959-1860 budget,” the expenditure  being assumed by Member States as they participated  and the project in the long run constituting no charge  on the Organization's budget, Infact, the project  would be financed in much'the same way as the  European Orgaril£ation for Nuclear Research. Replies  from Member States in the initial stages would involve  them in no financial commitment until a convention  was agreed upon,
(74) Mr. BAYEN (France), referring to the marine  science projects, mentioned that ships returning  from scientific expeditions brought back a very large  number of specimens, the study of which meant a  considerable amount of work, It would be useful to  consider, not only the chartering of an international  research ship, but also the establishment of an  institute at which Member States could have research  conducted. oo  He hoped that the term "marine sciences" would be  altered, since extensive fresh-water areas, such as  the lakes in Cambodia, were of great scientific and  social interest.
(75) Mr. BALIGA (india) informed the Commission  that the International Council of Scientific Unions  would {> the near future be sponsoring a vast inter-  national programme on oceanographic research, on  the same scals as the International Geophysical Yéar  it had previously organized. It was important there-   fore to ensure that that organization received adequate
486   PROGRAMME  financial support, ICSU was fully aware of tho  inadequate knowledge existing in respect of the Indian  Ocean and would seek to rectify that omisajon as  soon as possible,
(76) Mr, TOROCHESHNIKOV (Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics) said that his country, whose  shores were washed by three oceans and eleven seas,  was much interested in oceanography, He thought it  should be stated in paragraph 36 that documents giv-  ing the resulis ci ycientific research on that subject  would bé publishe(. in four languages: English,  French, Russian «nd Spanish,  He supported thi proposal of the Danish delogute  and hoped that it would be carried into effect in the  relatively near future.
(17) Mr. NAGAI (Japan) welcomed the support  expressed for work in the marine sciences and hoped  that it would be further fostered by all international  orgenizations concerned, He would be glad of  inforraation regarding the recent meeting on the  subject held in Lima.
(78) Mr, AUGER (Director, "Department of Natural  Sciences), replying to the French delegate's  observations, pointed out that the question of fresh-  water areas was of most interest in the humid tropics  and that the Secretariat intended to include the  problem of the productivity of inland fresh-water  lakes etc. in the fosearch programme for that zone,  The question of ‘chartering an international ocean-  ographic vessel had récently been discussed at  Lima by the Advisory Committee on Marine Sciences,  which had decided that States would have to be  persuaded to group together for the purpose, Such  work was quite in keeping with resolution 2.31 (B),  authorising the Director-General "to propose  measures for the assistance of national and inter-  national research bodies". It could be stated in the  work: plan that the Director Genes was authorized  to draw Member States‘ attention to the desirability  and possibility of grouping together to charter an  oceanographic vessel,
(18) The CHAIRMAN noted that the Commission was  in favour of the recommendation for a work plan and  supported the amount of $8, 000 shown in document
(80) Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General)  said that the Korean delegation had withdrawn its  draft recommendation (document 9C/DR/ 41),
2.4 Promotion of Science (paragraphs 60 to 68 and  document 9C/DR/ 15)
(81) The CHAIRMAN drew the Commission's  attention to the revised text of paragraphs 65 and 66  la document 8C/5 Corrigendum 1.
(82) Mr. VIEWEG (Federal Republic of Géisnany),  commenting on paragraph 65, commended particularly  the exhibition "Man messures the Universe". He  wondered, however, whether such exhibitions should  not be replaced by filma, which could be distributed
487  COMMISSION
1V-30  in many countries simultaneously and be more widely  and coustautly used, :
(83) Mr, ANAS (Afghanistan) regretted that the  Division for the Teaching and Diffusion” of Science  would be abolished in 1957, ‘as shown in paragraph
82, .The subject would have appeared to him to be  more closely connected with Unesco's work than,  for example, cell biology, He would be interested to  know what part of the work of the Division would be  continuing,  He would welcome information on what was done  with the materials of exhibitions when they were  discontinued,
(84) Mr, PNIEWSKI (Poland) wished to support the  draft resolution proposed by France (document
(85) Mr, SIDDIQUI (Pakistan) also greatly regretted  that the Division for the Teaching and Diffusion of  Science was to be abolished, The diffusion of science  was of great’ importance in an age of increasing  specialization, He thought Unesco had been doing good  work in that field and found it hard to see why such a  decision had been taken, He asked whether the plan to  form an International Council of Associations for the  Advancement of Science had materialized,
(86) Sir Charles DARWIN (United Kingdom) considered  that the lack of teaching of science was a great defect  in modern society, Indeed, there was a risk that, in  p iew yea; s' time, there would no longer be sufficient  good science schoolmasters, He expressed keen  regret at tte abolition of the Division.
(87) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) shared the regrets expressed by several  delegates over the abolition of the Division for the  Teaching and Diffusion of Science, Unfortunately,  owing to the smallness of the budget and the expenses  involved in programme activities, the Director-  General had had to do away with that Division, How-  ever, work for the dissemination of ‘science would  not be discontinued, as the programme: of Participation  in Member States' activities provided for assistance :  for science teaching, and the science exhibitions and  the publication of "Impact" would go on, It would not  be possible to continue preparing one exhibition a  year go as always to have three in circulation; only  one exhibition would be prepared in the 1857-1858  period.  Mr, Auger stated that after three years the  exhibitions could no longer be used as they were,  Items on loan were then returned to their owners and  any other usable items were given to a Member State  to form the nucleus of a science museum,  It would be possible to adopt the suggestion that  films or filmstrips be made of the exhibitions, but  that work would be within the province of the  Department of Mass Communication, .  Unesco had considered the possibility of bringing  the associations for the advancement of science  together in a federation, but it was for the associations  themselves to take a decision in the matter,
(88) Mr, LEE (United States of America) felt that the   IV-30  promotion of science teaching was a high priority  item, as Unesco was the international organization  enjoying prime responsibility in that area, Emphasis  should be placéd on that activity in the Participation  programme, He would not propose sty specific -  amendment, but urged. the Director-General to  reconsider the question aad to present proposals  thereon, possibly to the Executive Board, in order  not to delay matters until the tenth session of the  General Conference,
(89) Mr, LYNKOV (Byelorussian Soviet Socialist  Republi Pro the proposals put forward in  paragraphs 80, 61, 62 and 63, which would be con-  ducive to greater international understanding. *
(80) Mr, ‘AZIMOV (Union a Soviet Socialist Republics)  was in favour of the organization of scientific _  exhibitions and hoped that Unesco would find a  satisfactory means of illustrating the results achieved  in the field of the peaceful uses of atomic enérgy, He  hoped, moreover, that the ca es of the exhibitions  would be published in Russian, Spanish and Arabic as  well as in English and French.  (on) Mr, ÉSTABLE. Uruguaÿ) holé-heartedly  approved the Diréctor-Generalls proposals but thought  it advisable to amplify them, He regarded science as  a teacher that corrected false beliefs. Certain errors,  however, -sometimes gained widespread acceptance,  not thyough thé fault of science itself, but because its  principles were not properly disseminated. Mankind  should hiways keep abreast of current progress; that  was a findimental dûty which could not be neglected  in the contemporary world.  He thought Latin America was lagging behind, so  far as present-day science was concerned, and he  felt that the time had come to make up thé leeway,  Admittedly, science sometimes Ynäde mistakes which  should duly be rectified, but any progress achieved  should be brought within the reach'of ail,  For that purpose he proposed that, sincé Latin  Ameticà was backward in scientific ‘maîters, the  Director-General be authorized to make arrangéments,  for a seminar to discuss the level of science teaching  in the various Latin American institutions, so that  they could bring it up to date; it would be for the  Director-General to decides on the place and date of  the seminar,
(92) The CHAIRMAN said that it was no longer possible  to receive nw proposals at that late stage in the  Commission's proceedings,
(93) Mr, BALIGA (India) suggested that, instead of  being completely dismantled, exhibitions might be  taken over, when their showing had come to an end,  by the last country in which they had toured, and kept  as à permanent exhibit in a museum where they could  be of great popular interest. His own country had  done that in respect of the exhibition "Knowledge  knows no frontiers",
(84) Mr. SAMBURSKI (Israel) associated himself  with those speakers who had expressed support for  the Division for the Teaching and Diffusion of Science.
488  PROGRAMME COMMISSION  The Director-General might study the possibility of  incorporating that work under the Chapter on  Educstion, in connexion with both school and adult  education,
(95) Mr, LORTIE (Canada) also regretted the abolition  of the Division for the Teaching and Diffusion of  Science and hoped that it would be re-established at  the tenth session of the General Conference,
(98) Mr, TRIKOJUS (Australia). supported the re-  inclusion of the Division for the promotion of science  teaching, cout! he did ot intend to make a formal  Saree  Director-General during his visit to Australia,  Should the Division be restored, he would be glad ot  an opportunity to raise the Australian proposal again  with the Director-General, .  While he agreed that the touring scientific exhibitions  served some purpose, he thought better use could be  made of funds by supplying ideas and materials to the  countries concerned, which would then construct their  own exhibitions; moreover, they would be in a better  position fully to appreciate regional needs. Such a  scheme could be taken care of under the Participation  programmée,
(97) Mr, BURNS (New Zealand) appreciated the  Secretariat's activities, vider paragraph 63, in  promoting exchange of information between science  associations, He hoped that’ paragraphs 67 and 68,  referring to the Participation programme, would be  given the great importance they deserved. He  supported the proposal that filmstrips should be made  of Unesco exhibitions, and hoped the Director of the  Department would consider that proposal with the  Director of the Department of Mass Communication.
(98) Mr. BAYEN (France) regretted the abolition of  the Division for the Teaching and Diffusion of Science,  but hoped that, In view of the statement made at the  end of paragraph 62 to the effect that "some of the‘  work of the Division, however, will be continued in
1957 and 1958", it would be possible to re-establish  it in 1959-1960.
(99) Mr, AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) explained that the discontinuance of nearly  all the work relating to science teaching had resulted  in a transfer of $145, 000 for a period of two years,  and that, if the Division were to be re-established,  it would be necessary to take $ 70, "000 a year from the  rest of the programme,
(100) Mr, THOMAS (Assistant Director-General)  promised to convey to the Director-General the wishes  expressed by members of the Commission with regard  to the teaching and dissemination of science, He said  that a distinction had to be made between the problem  of distributing funds between Departments and that of  establishing priorities in each Department, Unesco's  responsibilities towards the United Nations and the  other Specialized Agencies in the field of the natural  sciences obliged the Organization to respect certain  priorities.   PROGRAMME  {101) Resolution 2, 41 as revised in document 8C/5  Corrigendum { was adopted unanimously,
(102) The French draft resolution (document 9C/DR/
18), seconded by Poland, was adopted by 21 votes to
9, with 10 abatentions, .
2,5 Regional Activities (paragraphs 69 to 89)
(103) The CHAIRMAN noted that no proposals had  been submitted in respect of that section.  COMMISSION
(104) Mr, LORTIE (Canada) hoped that the reports  of the Co-operation Offices would be made availabis  to Member States,
(105) Mr, BALIGA (India) expressed appreciation  for the Orgunization's help at the regional level, As  à result of Uneaco's encouragement, a refresher  course in advanced electronics was being held in  India,
(106) Resolution 2.51 was adopted unanimously,  The meeting rose at 1 p,m,  THIRTY-FIRST MEETING
30 November 1956, at 3 p.m,  Chairman: Mr. ANAS (Afghanistan)  later: Mrs. MYRDAL (Sweden)  ITEM 9.2 OF TWE AGENDA : NATURAL SCIENCES (continued)  (documents 9C/6 and Addenda and Corrigeuda)  {1) Before the discussion on the programme of the  Department of Natural Sciences was resumed Mr,  SAMB('RSKI (Israel) raised a point of order, ‘He had  referred, at an earlier meeting of the Comnilasion,  to the desirability of the Department of Natural  Sciences co-operating with the International Astro-  nautical Union, * The Director of the Departinent kad  not been askad to give his views on that proposal, nor  had membeérs of the Commission commented thereon,  He therefore asked that that point be dealt with before  discussion proceeded on other items. '
(2) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  " Sciences) pointed out that the proposal had né  budgetary implications. The International Astro-  nautical Union was studying a number of problems of  interest to the Department of Natural Sciences, with  particular reference to the exploration of interplanetary  space, and the Department wanted to keep in touch  with its work,  {3) The CHAIRMAN sald that the Secretariat would  note the suggestion made by the delegate of Israel,  MAJOR PROJECT 2A : S IENTIFIC RESEARCH IN ARID LANDS  (documents 9C/8 and Corrigenda 1 and 4; 9C/PRG/26 and 9C/DR/87  and 110)
(4) Mr. AUGER (Director, Department of Natural  Sciences) explained that Major Project 2A was in fact  à continuation of work in hand, rather than a new acti-  vity.It was mainly a question of expanding Unesco's
489     work in that field and of concentrating efforts on certain  specific points over a period of, probably, six years,  Mr, Auger recalled that research on arid zone  problems had first been proposed by the Indian  delegation at the Beirut Conference, At the time it  was thought that it would be well for Unesco to study  the matter, in order to discoyer whether the  Organization could play a part in projects for.the  development of those zones, An Advisory Committee  on Arid Zone Research had ‘been éstablished, with  which scientists from all countries, collaborated,  Several Member States had alreddy’ embarked on  practical action and, thanks to Unesco's help, some  of them had set up centres for the study of thé  problems involved, Certain international research  institutions had also been receiving aid from Unesco,  Mr. Auger pointed out that thé proposed programme  for the major project was contained in documents
9C/5, 9C/5 Corrigendum 1 and 9C/5 Corrigendum 4.  The work plan was given in document 9C/5, and the  various activities contemplated were detailed in  resolution 2, 61, which was to be found in’document
9C/5, Corrigendum 1, It would be seen, from that  resolution, that the collection and dissemination of  information would still be one of the principal -  activities of the Natural Sciencés Department in the  field of arid zone research, and that co-operation  with Member States was to be centred round the  international and national institutes interested in  those problems, Mr. Auger drew the Commission's  attention to paragraph (D) of the resolution, and  pointed out that assistance in the implementation of  regional or national research programmes constituted  one of Unésco's most important activities under Major  Project 2A.