v-18 ‘ADMINISTRATIVE  he could see nothing hut advantage in approving the  application of the Association in question... - .-  Referring to paragraph 8 of Appendir 6, Mgr :  Mgyroun drew attention to the large number of contacts  that the Acsociation had succeeded in establishing  with other prganizations working in fields related to  its own. It was setting an example in that respect  which many other ôrganisations would do well to  follow, He also believed that Unesco would sooner  or later have to request all international non-govern-  mental organizations working in the same or neighbour-  ing fields to co-ordinate their efforts by establishing  councils similar to that in which the various scientific  unions were already grouped.
(40) Mr. de HOOG (Netherlands) whole-heartedly  agreed with the Lebanese delegate and warmly  supported the application of the International Associa-  tion of Workers for Maladjusted Children.
(41) Mr. CHEN (China) informed the ‘Commission -  that observers from many countries throughout the  world hac attended the last meeting of the Association.
(42) The Commission agreed, by 35.votes to 0, with
10 abstentions, to grant the International Association  of Workers for Maladjusted Children consultative  status.  Appendix 7 - International Astronautical Federation
(43) Mr. FRAGA IRIBARNE (Spain) supported the  application of the above organization,
(44) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom), having drawn  attention to the provision in the Directives governing    'COMMIBSSION  the granting of. consultative status which iaid down .  that such statud should not be granted individually to  organizations grouped together in larger.  authorized to represent them,’ and having comménted -  that the objectives of the International Astronautical  Federaticn were, at the moment, rather remote from  those of Unesco, , suggested that the Commission”:  should recommend it to maintain relations with Unico  through the International Couneil of Scientific Unions,
(45) Mr, AVNON' (Israel) remarked that the Federation  had already applied to the International Council ot ;  Scientific Unions and the Union of International -  Engineering Organizations for membership, and its  applications had been rejected for the reasons set out  in paragraph 8 of Appendix 7. Space travel was of :  great interest to many Member States and, in his  opinion, Unesco should encourage research in that  field,  He seconded the proposal of the delegate of Spain  that the International Astronautical Federation be  granted consultative status.
(46) Replying to à request from Mr. MUNRO  (Australia) for the opinion of the Secretarial on the  Federation, the DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that the  Department of Natural Sciences was not enthusiastic  about its admission to consultative status, as it was  not primarily engaged in scientific work,
(47) The Coinmission agreed, by 13 votes to 10,  with 21 abstentions, to grant the International  Astronautical Federation consultative status,  The meeting rose at 5 p.m,  NINETEENTH MEETING
26 November, 1956, at 10,30 a, m.  Chairman: Mr. SAVAIN (Haiti)  APPLICATIONS BY INTERNATIONAL NON-GOVERNMENTAL  ORGANIZATIONS FOR ADMISMON TO CONSULTA'ITE  ARRANGEMENTS (continued) (document 9C/ADM/11 and Addenda)  Appendix 8 - International Broadcasting Organization
(1) Mr, STEPANEK’ Cavchigalovakid), ‘after giving a  brief cutline of the aé evéments ‘and äims of the ‘  International Broadcusting Organization, remarked  that all ‘the arguments which‘had been: advanced.  in favour of granting’ consultative “status to’ another  similar regional organizhtion,' the" Inter “American  Association of Broadeasters, could equally “él!  be applied to it. He ‘supported its applica-  tion for admission to consultative arrangé-  ments. ‘
(2) Mrs. HEFFELFINGER (United States of America)  said that; if all the’ applications ‘Usted in document
9C/ADM/ 17 and Annex were considered iri the light  of the Diréctives governing the granting of con-  sultativg status, it would be cleärly seen that some  of the giganizätions” applying for such status would  not qualify ‘under the provisions of Section II; À, 1,  and, in thé opinion of tho Unitéd States delegation,  the Intéfnational Br géécastig Organization was one  of those which’ wou ‘not qualify,  ' Paragraphs 4 and 5 of thé Appendix showed an’ -  apparent discrepancy, paragraph 4 saying that seats  on the Governing Body were allotted to France, the  - United Kingdom and the United States of America,  while paragraph 5 did not include organizations froin  those three countries in the list of members, The ,  fact was that no broédéasting organization from those  three countries was a member, There was no doubt   ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  that, when the’ Srgünitation had had its original * -  headgjuarters’ in Brussels, it was more international  in character, byt some countries had since withdrawn  {rom ‘membership, being dissatisfied with its policy,  The propagands activities of the organization were well  keiown,  The Genstal Conférence should take the greatest  care in selecting the organizations’ to which it ‘granted  consultative status, as Unesco would be judged by its  choice of associates,  Shé would have no objection  to placing thé organization on Unesco's register for  ‘the purpose of receiving documents, but she opposed  granting it consultative status. ,Ç  {3) Mr, de H00G ‘Noid lande) à said he would ke  some further {hformation about paragraphs 4 and 5,  He was under ‘the impression that the Statutes of the’  International Broadcasting Organization contained  provisions relating to the mémbership of its Governing  Body which it hid proved impossible to put into effect;  he asked it ‘that impression was’ correct,
(4) Mr. STÉPANEK (Csebtiostëvaktk) inforimed the  Commission that a représentative of the organization  had attended the General Conférètice as pn observer,  but owing to the delays which had taken place in the  work, had béén unable to remain’ in New De until  the application of his organization € came wp for decision.  As far as he himself ‘could deduce, the Statutes of  the organization made provision for seats on the  Governing Body for représentatives of Frince, the  United Kingdom and the United States of America and,  if broadcasting organizations from those countries  should become ‘merabers, they would automatically be  given those seats, He regretted being unable to give  precise information on that point.
(5) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL ‘aid not believe that the  filling of the seats. .allotted to France, the United  Kingdom and the United Staies of America was essential  for the functioning of the Governing Body,
(6) Mr. SUNDARAM (India), recalling ‘the remarks he  had mad? on the subject of regionalism. during the dis-  cussion of the application of the Inter-American |,  Association of Broadcasters, pointed oll ‘that, .although  the International Broadcasting Organization was at the  moment regional in character, organizations from  France, the United Kingdom and the United States of  America were, amongst other countries, ‘obviously -  eligible for membership, In his opinion, the time had  come to bridge the gulf between countries, and Unesco  could, by bringing non-governmental organizations .  together, help towards that end. He suggested, for  the sake of spreading Unesco's principles, that the  International Broadcasting Organization be granted  consultative status; during the general review of the  non-governmental organizations having consultative  status, in two years! time, the General Conference  could decide whether it had indeed served the purposes  of Unesco.  ( Mr, RAGUIWARA (Japan) understood that, since  its establishment, the International Broadcasting  Organization had lost a certain number of its members,  who had withdrawn to form another association. Asa  result, the organization had taken on a regional
623     : V-18  charagior.: “While. that In itéelf should Hot bar it:  from démission to consultative status; Mr, Haguiwara  was unfavourably impressed by the tact that it sti  described itscl as ‘international; Te t  As the ‘period was’ ove of transition, - since the Mat  of all organizations approved for consultative status  was to be reviewed in two years' time, he also felt  that, for the moment, only those few organizations  with which Unesco would really need to work very  closely diring 1957-1958 should be admitted to  consultative s¥rangements.  He therefore proposed that the application of the  International Broadcasting Organization be held over  for considéthtion at the next ordinary session of the  General Conference,  EPR EEE eh fr  still me uen saving located in  the United States of America, was, in his opinion,  unimportant. He thought that the organization fulfilled  all the requisite conditions for admission to consul-  tative arrangements; and moreover, the Executive  Board had authorized it to send an obsérver to the  current session of the General Conference.
(8) Mr. CHEN (China) pointed out that none_of the  members of the organization could be called free  democracies, As, in his opinion, it was international  in name but not in fact, he was in favour of rejécting  its application, . | ,.
(10) Mr, VERONESE “(taiy) (Representaitrs ‘ot the  Executive Board) reminded the Soviet delegate that  when the Executive Beard had decided to authorize  the organization under discussion to send an ‘observer  to the current session of the General Conference, it  had made it clear that the authorisation would not in  any way influence any decision that might be taken  with regard to admitting the organization to con-  sultative arrangements. + …, 5,  He himself was against its, admission, as he felt  that the organization could hardly be. considered non-  governmental, since most of its member orémalsations  were in fact dependent on governments. Les  He agreed with the Japanese delegate that it would be  well to defer consideration of the applications con-  tained in document 9C/ADM/17 until the next session  of the General Conference, except in those cases in  which it would be easy to obtain unanimous agreement,  such as the applications from organisations which,  like the International Association of Plastic Arts, -  were already working particularly, clocely with Unesco.
(11) Sir Ben Bowen THOMAS (United Kingdom) ‘associated  himself with the views expressed by the delegates of  Italy and Japan, which were in line with the statement  made by the United States', delegate, The Commission  should bear in mind the contemplated review, and the  fact that it would be unwise to accept for consultative  arrangements eny organization about which any doubte   v-i9  : a J  existed. Such doubts existed in connexion with the  …rganization under discussion, - The use of the p£me  ¢! the United Kingdom in paragraph 4 of the application  was unjustified, since the United Kingdom had never  bien, nor did it propose to be, associated with the  Irternational Broadcasting Organisation in any way.  He proposed the rejection of the application,
(12) Mr, DEBEAUVAIS (France) agreed with the  Italian delegate that the current session should be  limited to examining the applications of the few  organizations on which it would be easy to reach  unanimous agreement. He mentioned that his dsle-  gation had already, at a nrevious meeting, announced  its intention of abstaining from voting on the  applications of the other organizations listed in docu-  ment 9C/ADM/ 17,
(13) Mr, MALYSHEV (Byelorussian Soviet Socialist  Republic) wondered what the Secretariat thought of  Sir Ben Bowen Thomas! comment that the reference  to the United Kingdom in paragraph 4 of Appendix 8  was totally unjustified, Mr, Malyshev pointed out  that all the appendices to document 9C/ADM/17 had  been prepared by the Secretariat,
(14) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL explained that the  rôle played by the Secretariat in connexion with the  presentation of applications consisted of selecting the  important information with regard to the activities  of the organization, It could not assume responsibility  for the information contained in the applications. It  was up to the United Kingdom delegation to decide  whether the inclusion of the name of the United  Kingdom in the application under discussion was  offensive or not,
(15) The application of the International Broadcasting  Organization for consultative arrangements was  rejected by 25 votes to 6, with 10 abstentions.  Appendix 9 - International Council of Social  Democratic Women
(16) Mr, MARTINEZ COBO (Ecuador) was against  the admission of the above organization,’ firstly  because the Executive Board had not given its opinion  with regard to the organization in good time, and  secondly because its aims were political, Further-  more, gs it had only recently been established, he  thought that it would be better for its application to  be held over for consideration by the General  “Conference’in 1958, after a thorough examination by  the Executive Board,
(17) Mr. MUDALIAR india recalled that hé ‘had  always held the view thai ihe inethod of grauting  copsultative status was haphazard. In his opinion,  thé ‘Cominission should give some considsration, at  th stage reached, to the principles it wished to  fo {low In that respect.  ‘The Commission should ask itself yhat object a  nob-governmental organization had ia ‘applying for  céb hsultative arrangements, especially in cases where  — sdveral’ non-governmental organizations working in  ‘hé same field seni in applications. Inquiries should  ‘be made as to'their membership; and whether
624     ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  organizations claiming a country as a member  actually existed in that country, or whether it was  included as a member solely on the strength of the  membership of one or more independent individuals,  Such façis were not known as things stood, but should  be knoy/n before decisions were taken, He was of the  opinion that National Commissions should be  consulted with regard to the membership of non-  governmental organizations,  National governments were sometimes put in a  very difficult position as a result of the granting of  consultative status to non-governmental organizations,  Their interests should be safeguarded,  ‘The budgetary implications of granting consultative  status to organizations should not be overlooked,  Those implications included costs not only for paper  and postage, but also for personnel to liandle the  increased correspondence. The Commission was  concerned about the increases in staff, yet, by  granting consultative status to so many non-govern-  mental organizations, was giving the Director-  General very good reason for such increases,  The Commission should also consider the extent  to which an organization could help Unesco In its  work,  In the light of the foregoing remarks, he suggested  that the Commission should adopt a firmer attitude  towards proposals for the grant of consultative status  to non-governmental organizations,  He concluded by stressing that none of his remark:  hed been directed against the organization under  discussion,
(18) The application of the International Council of  Soclal Democratic Women was rejected by 12 votes  to 2, with 29 abstentions.
(19) Sir Ben Bowen THOMAS (United Kingdom),  giving an explanation of his’ ‘vote, said he had  abstained following the ‘opinion of the Executive  Board that more careful consideration should be  given to applications. ‘ Judging from the large number  of abstentions, he thought that the remarks made by  Mr. Mudallài- had cerried great weight with dele-  gations, and suggested that it would be better to defer  decisions on individual applications until a fair con-  sideration could be given to them during the general  review, If Mr. Mudaliar would propose such a  motion, he would second it.
(20) Mr. MUDALIAR (Iris) welcomed the remarks  made by thé United Yingdom delegate, ‘’ .  He move chat further consideration of the *  applications for consultative arrangements be deferred,  to enable the ‘Secretariat,’ in conjunction with the  Executive Board, to make a closer study of the -  organizations applying. He suggested, further, that  the Executive Board should, after reviewing the  matter, make recommendations as to how it should  be dealt with by the General Conference at a later  session,
(21) Mr. VERONESE (Italy) (Representative of the  Executive Board) agreed in géneral with what the  Indian delegate had said but hoped nevertheless that  it would be possible, at the current session, to grant  consultative status to the few organizations, such as   ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  tho international Association of Plastic Arts and the  International Student Movement for the United Nations,  which were already closely linked with Unesco,  He also pointed out that, if the Gengral Conference,  at its lenth session, was to bè able to corisider the  deterred applications in the light of the fullest  possible information, it might be advisable to rein-  force to some degree those services of the Secyetariat  which were responsible for liaison with the inter-  sational non-governmental organisations. It would  also be desirable that, should the need arise, the  Executive Board should appoint a committee to  conduct à prelfminary examination of the applications  referred to, and should try to increase its contacts  with international non-governmental organisations,  in particular by sending a represeniative, when-  ever possible, to conferences or mæetings held by  those organizations,
(22) Mr. DEBAUVAIS (France) also favoured the  solution of postponing consideration of the applications  listed in document 8C/ADM/17 - with a few  exceptions - until the tenth session.  He emphasized thet, if that solution were adopted,  it might be well for the National Commissions to  share in the heavy work that the Secretariat would  have to do in preparing for the detailed examination  of the applications at the tenth session of the  Conference,
(23) Mr, MATSUI (Japan) was also in favour of the  proposed solution, but urged that the application of  the International Federation of Translators be con-  sidzred at the current session,
(24) Mr, de HOOG (Netherlands) asked whether the  Adoption of the proposal under consideration would  imj3/ that the decisions already taken by the Com-  mission with regard to the organisations referred  to in Appendices 1 to 8 would have to be considered  as null and void,  He also asked what criteria would be used to  decide which applications were to be considered  immediately.
(25) Sir Ben Bolàà THOMAS (United Kingdom)  proposed the adoption of the following resolution:  "The Administrative Conimission,  Resolves that consideration of the applications of  the international non-governmental organizations,  contained in documents 9C/ADM/17 and Annex, be  deferred until the tenth session of the General  Conference,  Instructs the Director-General to obtairi full  particulars about the rep ésentation of any countries  concernad with the work of those international non-  governmental érgarizérions, |  Requests tho Executive Board to study those  -applications within thé terms of the geheral review  of international non-governmental érganizations to  be presented to the tenth session of the General  Conference, subject to the right of the Secretariat  "to submit special proposals, for the approval of the  Executive Board, in the case of international non-    v-18  governmental organizations ‘of special significance  to the 1957-1958 programme of Unesco, and con-  sideration of whose applications for consultative  status bas been, for the time being, deferred,” +  The intention of his proposal was to cover all  applications, including those upon which decisions  had already been taken. It also made allowances for  apecial cases, ;
(26) Mr, POSHEVELYA (Ukrainian Soviet Socialist  Republic) thought it impossible to re-examine the  applications of the six organizations siready approved  by the Commission, He therefore proposed that the  Commission continue to take each of the applications  contained in document 9C/ADM/ 17 one by one.
(27) Mr, ZHUKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics)  supported that proposal which, he pointed out, was in  accordance with the earlier decision of the Commission  to examine each of the orgeaixations iisted in the above-  mentioned document csparately. If the Commission  were to adopt Sir Ben Bowen Thomas‘ proposal, it  would have to re-examine the applications of those  organizations which hed already been approved - a  procedure which he thought inadmissible,
(28) Mr. AHMED (Pakistan) supported the Anglo-  Indian proposal. fie was pieastd to see that the  Commission was coming round to the view he had  already expressed with regard to the consideration  of applications for consultative status,
(29) Mr. MARTINEZ COBO (Ecuador) while approv-  ing the United Kingdom proposal, said he would be  compellzd to abstain from voting oa it as, since a  number of organizations had already been admitted  or rejécted, it was ill timed, He thought the  discussion of the document should continue, on the  understanding that applications that were not approved  should not be considered as finally rejected but only  held over for more detailed consideration by the  General Conference at its tenth session, after thorough  study by the Executive Board,
(30) Mr. MUDALIAR (India) considered that the  United Kingdom proposal met the situation so far as  the immediate emergency was concerned, and  signified his support of it.
(31) Mr, ZHUKOY (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics)  was categorically opposed to Sir Ben Bowen Thomas!  proposal; if accepted, it would involve handing over  to the Secretariat a task which, in fact, it was the  duty of the Commission itself to undertake,
(32) Mr, MALYSHEV (Byelorussian Soviet Socialist  Republic) did not see how the Administrative Com-  mission could reverse a decision already taken, as  it was obviously intending to do,
(33) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL said that there was no     * The final text of this resolution is to be found in  document 8C/Resolutions (resolution 43).   v-18  legal or technical objection to thé Commission's  reversing a decision it had taken. As such a con-  tingency was not provided for, and was not included  under matters requiring a two-thirds majority vote,  he considered that the Commission could reverse its  previous decision by a simple majority.
(34) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) said that the United  Kingdom delegate's proposal that the Secretariat be  authorised by the General Conference not to grant  consultative status to certain intervational non-  governmental organizations but to establish provisional  working relations - subject to the approval of the  Executive Board - with some of those organizations  could be considored legally admissible,
(35) Mr, FUENTES (Chile) regretted that the proposals  submitted by the delegates of the United Kingdom, India  and Italy had not been introduced at the beginning of  the discussion on the document, when he would have  been able to support them, He considered it neces-  sary, in view of the stage the discussion had reached,  to examine all the applications submitted in detail.
(36) Mr. SARMIENTO (Colombia) sald that if it were  agreed to dsfer consideration of the list submitted,  the question would have to be discussed by the General  Conference at its next session, If, on the other hand,  it were decided to continue examining the applications,  any organizations that might be rejected could reapply  at the next session of the General Conference, which  would approve or reject their admission,
(37) Mr, SABA (Legal Adviser) replying to various  questions raised by Mr. ZHUKOV (Union of Soviet  Sccialist Republics), Mr, AHMED (Pakistan) and Mrs.  AMAREL SAUER (Firazil), gave the following  information; 7  Under the terms of the Directives adopted in 1950  (cf. document 9C/ADM/19), only the General Con-  ference was competent to decide on applications for  admission to consultative arrangements. The  General Conference could obviously, if it so desired,  amend the aforementioned Directives so as to  delegnte that task to the Executive Board or the  Secretariat, That, however, was not what was being  proposed at thé monient, Sir Ben Bowen Thomas!  proposal was simply that the Secretariat be authorized  to establish working relations, subject to the approval  of the Executive Board, with some of the international  non-governmental organizations listed in document
8C/ADM/ 117, on the understanding that it would be  only at its tenth session that thé General Conference  would examine the applications submitted by those  organizations for admission to consultative arrange -  ments.’ As he had already said, the proposal was  perfectly admissible, ‘  The Directives adopted in 1950 laid down that  consultative status could be granted not only to  organizations that were truly International but also,  subjsct to clearly defined critériz, set forth in the  Directives, to regional organizations,  On another point, unlike the position in other inter-  national organizations, the Rules of Procedure of the  General Conference contained no provision relating  to the conditions in which the Administrative Commis -  sion could reverse a decision already taken, It was
626     ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION  therefore the Chairman's responsibility to give a  ruling on the matter, which might be challenged and,  in that event, put to the vole,
(38) Mr, KONAREK (Poland) was opposed to the ‘  United Kingdom delegation's proposal. He thought  that, If consideration of the applications contained in  document 8C/ADM/17 were deferred until the tenth  session of the General Conference, Unesco would lose  the co-operation of à number of very useful organiz-  ations over the coming two-year period, Even if  working relations were established with those  organizations, as proposed, the Secretariat would not  be able to count on the same degree of active support  as if they had been approved for consultative status,
(39) The CHAIRMAN then asked the Commission to  vote on the United Kingdom proposal, which he con-  sidered receivable,
(40) The draft resolution submitted by Sir Ben Bowen  Thomas was approved by 28 votes to 8, with 11  abstentions,
(41) The CHAIRMAN, replying to a question put by Mr,  ZHUKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics), said  that the vote that had just taken place meant that the  Commission counted document 9C/ADM/17 as not  having been examined. The decision therefore applied  to all the applications for admission to consultative  status included In that document, without any  exception,
(42) Mr, CAMPBELL (New Zealand), explaining his  vote, sald that he had been pleased to support the  proposal for the reasons given by the delegate of  India, He was, however, disappointed because the  list included many organizations which he would have  liked to havo consultative status, He asked the ‘  Director-General not to be too rigid in making special  proposals tu the Executive Board, especially so far as  organizations sponsored by Unesco were concerned,  His Government was specially interested in the Pan-  Pacific and South East Asia Women's Association and  he expressed the hope that the Director-General  would give it his favourable consideration when  deciding on the special proposals he would make to  the Executive Board,  ITEM 15.3 OF THE AGENDA : RENEWAL OF FORMAL AGREEMENTS  CONCLUDED WITH NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS  (document 9C/ADM/18 and Addendum)
(43) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL informed the Com-  mission that the Secretariat had close working  relations with all the non-governmental organizations  appearing on the list in paragraph 2 of document sc/  ADM/ 18, Subventions were granted for the work of  each organization, all of which had already conducted  important work for Unesco,  The Secretariat was in favour of approving the  continuation of the formal agreements with those |  organizations. The draft formal agreement with the  International Association of Plastic Arts (document
9C/ADM/ 18 Addendum) was also recommended for  approval by the Conference.   ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSION
(44) The Commission unanimously approved the  renewal of the formal agreements concluded with the  non-governmentel organizations concerned.  ITEM 15.4 OF THE AGENDA : AMENDMENTS TO THE DIRECTIVES  CONCERNING UNEMOO'S RELATIONS WITH INTERNATIONAL NON-  GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (continued) (documents 9Q’ ADM/ 19  ad 9C/DR/124)
(43) Mr, SIMSARIAN (United States of America)  recalled that his delegation had expressed its  intention of presenting a resolution, for the consider-  ation of the Commission, in the light of the amend-  ments which had been made to the Directives  governing Unescots relations with non-governmental  organizations, That resolution was before the  Commission in document 9C/DR/126. Its purpose  was to ensure that the Director-General and the  Executive Board should examine the relationship  between subventions and contracts, and provide the  General Conference at its tenth sesnior. with a work-  ing paper on the subject, It was recognized that it  might be possible to utilize contracts where  subventions had been given in the past, and also that  subventions would still be used in the 1959-1960  pericd,
(46) Mr, DEBEAUVAIS (France) pointed out that  contracts and subventions were not designed for the  same purposes, Contracts had clearly defined aims,  such as the conduct of studies on a particular subject,  while subventions were designed to give certain  organizations whose usefuln2ss was recognized by  Unesco the financial assistance they might need to  continue in being.  It was therefore hardly possible to recommend,  without fuller information, the adoption of a policy  for replacing subventions by contracts, and the  speaker wondered what effect the adoption of the  United States proposal would have on organizations  currently receiving subventions,
(47) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL remarked that the  question of the relitionship between contracts and  subventions was under constant study by the  Secretariat, It sometimes recommended the granting  of oné or the other, or both, He had no objection to  preparing a report on the subject for the tenth  session,
(48) Mr. de HOOG (Netherlands) agreed with the  French delogate that the Commission had not, at  the momert, sufficient information at its disposal  to be able: to recommend to the General Conference  the adopiion of a proposal which appeared to be based  on the idea that most subventions should be replaced  by contracts.
(49) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL pointed out that the  Secretariat was pledged to grant contracts instead of  subventions wherever that was possible, so that the  policy suggesied was not new, The preparation of a  réport would not force him to grant contracts in  every case, [le assured the Commission that he  would not bt tempted to make unreasonable recom -  mendations for the granting of subventions.
(50) Mr, CALO (Italy) strongly supported the United  States proposal, He felt that contracts would ensure  far more effective assistance to Unesco than the  grant of subventions, Even if the adoption of the  proposal would entail a change in the policy so far  followed, he would be perfectly ready to vote for it.
(51) Mr, RAADI (Iran) thought that the drafi resolu-  tion under consideration might perhaps be worded a  little more subtly, He suggested that the Director-  General be asked to report, not only on the  possibilities, but also on the desirability of replac- -  ing existing subventions by contracts, and that the  Executive Board be requested to submit any  comments on the subject it might deem fit, not  necessarily in the form of recommendations,
(52) Mr. SIMSARIAN (United States of America) while  willing to accept the proposal made by the delegate  of Iran, pointed out that the main purpose of his  resolution was to have the Director General prepare  a working paper on the subject for the tenth session  of the General Conference, The Commission, by  adopting his resolution, would recognize the trend  towards replacing subventions by contracts for  specific assistance in Unesco's programme, It  would not be taking a decision on the substance of  the question itself.
(53) Mr. SCHAFF (Poland) asked whether adoption  of the resolution would mean that some subventions  would be abolished completely, and whether the  Executive Board's recommendations to the tenth  session of the General Conference would enable it to  pronounce on each individual case.
(54) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL replied that the  adoption of the resolution would make little difference  to the existing procedure, under which he made  proposals with regard to contracts and subventions  and submitted them to the Executive Board for its  comments, The resolution might envisage a future  change in the procedure, whereby he could make his  proposals without submitting them to the Executive  Board, In that case, he would not act on doubtiul  cases without the approval of the General Conference.  As there would be specific proposals with regard  to each organization, the General Conference would  be able to pronounce on each individual case.
(85) Mr, SECCO ELLAURI (Uruguay) supported the  United States proposal, which did not entail the  abolition or the prohibition either of the grant of  subventions or of the maintenance of those already  granted, Considering the difference between sub-  ventions and contracts, it was clear that there was  a tendency to favour the former, Unesco could,  however, make any changes that it considered would  contribute to the achievement of its objectives. In  his opinion, the proposal was designed Lo draw the  attention of the Secretariat and the Executive Board  to the queution so that they could make any changes  they considered desirable at an opportune moment.  In actual fact, the General Conference was a  sovereign body with the power of passing final  resolutions, For all the above reasons, he considered  the proposal under discussion to be a very good one.   v-20  It would make for improvement in the services  rendered by organizations in touch with Unesco.
(86) Mr; DEBEAUVAIS (France) was not clear as to  the reasons that had led the United States delegation  to subimit the draft resolution under discussion, He  stressed once more that contracts and subventions  had different purposes, as contracts imposed specific  obligations on the organizations concerned, while  subventions were merely designed to assist them,  Even as things stood at the moment, the Director-  General and the Executive Hoard were empowered to  substitute contracts for subventions which, in their  opinion, were no longer necessary,
(57) Mr. CAMPNELL (New Zealand) thought that all  were agreed on the principle of the resolution,  including the Director-General, As the Director-  General had stated that the resolution would make  little difference to the procedure he already adopted,  the New Zealand delegation was reluctant to pass the  resolution, which would only necessitate the submis-    ADMINIBTRATIVE COMMISSION  sion of yet another report for the consideration of the  General Conference,
(58) Mr, ARTHUR (United Kingdom) associated him-  self with the expression of doubt concerning the  practical value of the resolution, and indicated that  if it were put to the vote, he would abstain from voting,  As all were agreed on the principle that contracts  should be given whenever possible, as the Director.  General was following that policy, and as no  suggestion had been made in the rasolution to define  contracts or subventions, he hoped that the United  States delegate would be prepared to withdraw his  resolution,
(59) Mr, SIMSARIAN (United States of America)  agreed to withdraw the resolution, in view of the  agreement on the principle to be followed with regard  to the granting of contracts and subventions, and in  the light of the discussion which had taken place,  The meeting rose at 1,20 p,m,  TWENTIETH MEETING
27 November 1956, at 10,30 a.m,  Chairman: Mr. DAVIES (Australia)  WORKING PARTIES
(1) The CHAIRMAN {nformed the Corinission that  the General Committee had, at its meeting that  morning, decided to set up two joint Administrative  Commission/ Programme Commission working  parties. ‘ . ; ,  The first, to be known as Joint Working Party  No. 1, would consider the procedure {6 be adopted  by the General Conference, at its tenth session,  for the tonsideration of the 1959-196) programme,  and would be composed of representétives of Brazil,  Chile, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, El Salvador,  France, India, Italy, Japan, Lebanon, New Zealand,  the Union of Soviet Socialist Republi¢s, the United  Kingdom, the United States of America and Viet-  Nam, “a *, = ,  Tho second, to be known as Joint Working Party  No, 2, would examine the finañding of the Inter-  national Coupon Scheme, the "Courler", and  other self-financing projects, and would be composed  of representatives of Argentina, the’ Byelorusslan  Soviet Socialist Republic, Cambodia, Canada,  Cuba, France, Federal Republic of Germany,  India, Iran, Mexico, Poland, Saudi Arabia, Syria,  the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the  United Kingdom and the United States of  America, ’
628  ITEM 13.2 OF THE AGENDA : PERSONNEL POLICY : SALARIES  AND ALLOWANCES (continued) (documents §C/ADM/8 and Addenda 1  and 2, 9C/ADM/SR. 18, 9C/DR/123)  Draft resolution 9C/DR/123
(2) Mr, FARR (Chief, Bureau of Personnel and |  Management) recalled the discussion which had led  up to the presentation by the United Kingdom of the  resolution before the Commission in document
9C/DR/123, The Secretariat was not quite clear as  to the intention of the words "to reach reasonable  parity" in that draft resolution, and wondered  whether a better formula would not be "to align  Unesco rates on the best prevailing rates."
(3) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) explained that  his delegation did not consider that Unesco salary  rates should have a permanent lead over the best  prevailing rates in the Paris area, but felt that,  in due course, they should bé about the same, The  resolution, while giving the Director-General some  discretion in the matter, would ensure that  eventually some sort of parity would be achieved  between the two rates. The intention of his delegation  seemed to be adequately expressed in the resolution,  whose wording he wished to maintain as it stood.