IV-17 PROGRAUME  delegation had made its proposal in‘order. to influence  the work plans, Having achieved that object, since it  had réceivéd an assurance that the publication would ;  not be called & yearbook and that the Director-General  would try to include it among the Department's normal  publications, the Australian delegation had pleasure in  withdrawing its motion,  COMMUISSION
(50) Mr, UNAKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics)  asked the Chairman to inform delegates, one meeting .  in advance, of the documents and draft resolutions to  be discussed, so that the Commission would be able tg  finish its work within the ‘presoribed time, -  The meeting rose at 5 p.m.  SEVENTEENTH MEETING  ‘24 November 1956, at 9,30 a.m.  Chairman: Mrs. MYRDAL (Sweden)  EMERGENCY EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE TO HUNGARY, AND |  EGYPT (document 90/DR/ 128)
(1) Mi. MAHEU (Uhesco ‘Roprééentathye à at thé United  Nations) said that the Belgian delegation had submitted  a draft resolution (document 9C/DR/ 125) on emergency  educational assistance to Hungary and Fgypl. . At Îts  last meeting, the’ general ‘¢ommitjee had decided to  admit the draft resolution and fo refer it to the Pro:,  gramme, Commission,’ If ity were adopted, it Would be  insertéd as an amen endment | to paragraph , 222 o  Chapter | ("Education"), ‘of, the. proposed programine  and budget. Under Rule 144, ,paragraph 2, , of the  Rules, of Procedure, ‘whey ea proposal tou” A ‘getivi-  ties to be, undertaken. by Vrieses related to malters  that were of difect, Soncern | to the, United Nations of  one or more Specialized Agenc! eb,’ the Director:  General shou draw the attenti at the meeting to the  implications o the’ Fropoail as the ‘Générät Contérence  should satiafy ilself thai adéquate consultations had  face, In accordance with that provision,’ he  te give the Co min ission some ‘information that
0 i de in studying the’ substance of, the  oposa al, by  y ily concerned, the ry  taken  wish  would be ui Belgien Ejauak  So far. ar Huy ry       ir À  A, Af reg  SEE Gedétat 3 el General ‘Assembly’ request fel  in consultation Sith the es 5  Agencies; to iniqiiire! into usa nééda, ‘especially  in food and medical’ supplie, and to submit a report.  The Directér-Geriéral had sod that formation on  to thé General Corimittés and ad guid that! ‘in nié  née was  dss EI 5         that, ata later hol i‘ the United Nations ction, the  Hungarian people's needs in the educational,” scientific  and cultural spheres would become clearer, and that    Ta  the Beiglan : resolution Would fay | into place’ In’ he system  of co-operation with the United Nations, He rt  suggested {hat the text be made clearer and that the  element of doubt in the wording of paragraph. RUN oft |  draft be eliminated, The last paragraph but one pro-  vided for the conduct of inquiries,, Those inqulriés’  which might be carried out ejther through’ question-  naires, or through the sending of migélons to thé spat,  could usefully be co-ordinated by. the Secretary. ’  General of the United Nations, ° 80 as to. avold any over  lapping. In conclusion, he pointed out that Unesco  had already co- operated, dering assistance, with  Uniitd Nations Agencies "sdk as UNRWA and UNKRA,  its rôle being mainly to supply expert supervisory staff  in those fields falling within its competence, '
(2) ‘The, ‘CHAIRMAN’ ‘indicâtéd that draft Pésolution’
9C/DR/} 125 rélated to thé programme of the Depaitæient  of Fdücation and would be considered during discussion  of the programme of that Department. She thought the  Programme ‘Commission should request some indica-  tion of the cost of implementing that resolution, togèther  with suggestions as to how that sum would be provided.  v  tt  rr 0% de fa noue : CULTURAL Aorvimus REE  (docknents: vo/s wd Addwnce and Cormljenite) : ;  or i éériééxiéa with the orogr iris at the D patin nt  ‘ot Cultural Activities, the CHAIRMAN recalled that’  certaiñ items were being stidied by working peties -  of the Comnilasion and proposed that the reporté of -  those working parties be considered during eocusain  “of the item concerhed.’ ' She called on the Director of  the Departinent to introduce his programme, ce  («y Mi KIRPAU tatisie Dirbétor,- Department dt a . + ;  "Cultural Activities) drew attention to the premio  "befor thé méeting;' and ic a number’ of special reports  relating to the programme of his D , subs" 7  mitted by thé Director-General; ‘ documents 9C/PRG/S;
8C/PRG/10 and Addendum.’ He then introduced the <  programe of his Department, ss contained In mode   PROGRANNE  ocuments, indicating that the Department maintained  the same structure, and division between gèneral and .  spécial activities, as that,of the other Depariments,. |  The items listed under, general activities represented  a continuing programme planned at the same level as  in previous years, the slight budgetary rise being due -  mainly to increases in subventions - paragraphs 19 to
32, That increase was felt to be justified by the con-  tinuing tendency of the subventioned organizations to  extend their geographical representation and to hold  more and more meetings outside Furope. Their  assistance was both competent and effective and -  Unesco had coine to rely greatly on their services; .  in some of their. lields, like music and the theatre,  Unesco's programmes were largely carried out through  the organizations concerned. Much nevertheless re-  mzined to be done and he would draw attention, in  that connexion, to resolution 4; 11 (paragraph 17). The  «uly new activity under section 4. 3 was the proposed  publication of Russian editions of the “Bulletin for.  Libraries" and the "Bibliographical Newsletter", Two  special reports, documents 8C/PRG/7 and 9C/PRG/S,  had been submitted in connexion with the two draft  recommendations mentioned under, project 4. 321(c)  sad à report on those documents prepared by a special  working party. of the Commission. Was now, before the  meeting - document 9C/PRG/14, Two further special  documents, 9C/PRG/5 and 9C/PRG/6 and Addendum,  asked the Conference to decide whether international  regulations on the exchange of publications should be  prepared, and explained the proposal made in para-  graphs 79 to 84 for Unesca's participation in the pre-  paration of a draft international agreement on the so-  called "neighbouring rights‘ of copyright. Both those  reports had been referred for study to the appropriate  working party of the Commission. There was no  change in the proposals regarding the Unesco Library  snd Reference Service, contained in paragraphs, 86  to@l. .  The fact thay the. total percentage of ‘the Depart-  ment's budget devoted to general activities’ Was a  ; litle under 50 per cent and rather higher than that of  > other Departments, . was dug to ‘the; act that À. included  the Unesco Library and Reference. Service, w hic h,  served all uns of the Organization; and ‘io the pro-  yision' for Internations! ‘agvéements, which'was a’  spacial feature of his Department. There was, '  however, a close integra ion between the general ag-  tivities the special, activities’ of his Department,  the former being indispessable to the execution of the  ; aa |  =. SEE                       pr pie  nie itéd-on. ge ee Ah THE  Ra hata ot he poe “of the  Fada oy Sasotatlo on of Cultural Froperty  a 9C/PRG/10, ind Adderida’l and 2) asking  : the Conterence to adopt a draft resolution establish-  El that Centre a approving. its Sia atites, arid to ‘  the draft ‘agréement : with the host country,  . Unesco's activities “éndér the Participation      COMMISSION  - national, regional or local framework. -  ‘be noted that the repo  IV-17  programme. were greatly limited by lack of additional  funds, but in spite of that the Director-General had  decided to carvy out, in that particular field, the  requests for assistance received from sixteen Sates  and isrritories during the current two-year, period,  Many requests, however, - remained unsatisfied, - -  In the second section of Special Activities « 446,  Culture and Community Development + were grouped.  a number, of projects designed to assist Member States  to raise the cultural level of community life within the  .The projects  Usted in that section (paragraphs 111 to 176) were  closely. related to each other and served the same end,  representing à concentrated programme which, as in  previous years, would be carried out in close co- |  operation. with other, Departments and Services of the  Organization. The tasks involved were massive,  depending largely for their accomplishment or) national  resources, although Unesco could offer Member States  valugble methods of international co-operation tested  through experience, Mr, Kirpal drew special atten-  tion to the project for the provision of Tea material  for new [iterates (paragraphs, 135 to 139), which was  also planned and oparated as an interdepartmen  activity, RU was not intended that Unesco shoul do  more than provide advice, training and material to  those Already, Working in the field, _ Taking note of  the ‘wishes of. the Member. States most concerned, some  of whom bad Wished to expand the ‘activity. into a major  project, the D irector General ! had proposed, in document
9C/5; Corrigendum, 4, that the ‘budgetary provision there-  for in 1957-1958 be increased by $90, 000, | In that  section also, the requests made by | Member States under  the Participation. programme, greatly exceeded the bud-  getary posaibilfifes of the draft programme, The  projects grouped in that section, were ‘considered | im-  portant not only for social development, but also for  the promotion % so ernational understanding. ..  Turning to sect on 4.5 - Culture and Internatio  Understanding - Mr, Ki rpai | listed the four m  jects contdined therein, which wére a écatinuetion of  work undeftaken | 1a the past. The budget of that sec-  tion, ‘dppanred to. have by for reduced, but a some ‘of the  fteras that. had prévioualy been included had. been trans-  ferred { the major project on Fast- West Hutief®  understanding. "The promotion € of Getler international  understanding neverthéless Goniinyied 10 be of § paramount  importance. diner rogr ea ‘ot ‘the ] Department.” A  special répor ee projec {for Ey Frans of the hé Soton-  tific and Cattoral 1 | Development ot usmest
9C/PRG/9 Rey, and coi nit) vas oA Hadid  by a wor arty qmmiss on, buf is x  king pa i be P T DAY LF  ident of the veu  stignal Comiiss that Cat ai  ‘omimisaion!s. Deer jogutrémients fo r, ih  al  pro-     POR +1058 és $58,000 more than the de y postin  ary p ak als ot the Director-Qaseral.  ied the changes that hid been  of hih Dopartineht (a an blespr x trüétiré po the main divisions df the’!  Programm i more close than’ in’ ‘the’ past. The total  numhbér of posts in'the Department vas b to bu inéfeased  from 1% to T4. but that be pète resultéd the  transfer of the régional cultural activities Staff trom  the Havaria Office to the budget of thé Dé  Thère was, theréforé, AG actual fncreasé in staff over  the 1955 level,” although some adjustinerité within that      IV-17  number had been made as à Fesult of reorganisation,  Mr, Kirpal thought that delegates would find that  the programme of the Department was based on the  principles of continbity and concentration, ‘Instead  of the 25 programme resolutions adopted with respect  to the 1985-1066 programme, oily. t] were presented  for the period 1057-1958, although no activities had  been abandoned, - The programme had thus achieved  a certain'stability and permanence, its component  parts being integrated to form a composite whole which  was designed to promote international understanding in  the field of culture, In conclusion, Mr. Kirpal stres-  sed the opportunity which the programme of cultural  activities afforded for promoting a two-way flow of  cultural exchanges on a basis of equality and in a  spirit of mutual appreciation between the economically  less developed countries and the more prosperous  countries, ’
(5) Mgr MAROUN {Lébanon) (Répreaentative of the  Executive Board) said that thé Board had carefully  studied the proposed progéamime and budget, and,  more particularly; the chapter dealing with cultural  activities, at its 44th Sessién, .Qenerally speaking,  it had found that chapter better planned and more  clearly presented than’in thé past, Certain specific  items had engaged its attention - thé subvention to  ICPHS, the request froin the Comimisston for a His-  tory of the Scientific and Cultural Development of  Mankind, aiid the quéstion of international diséussions -  as could be äéèn from document 9C/5 Addendum |,  paragraphs" 89, £0 and 81. Mgr Maroun alsostressed  the interest shown by the Board in art reproductions  and the aid to be expected from international non-  governmental organizations in promoting their pr>-  duction in all countries.
4.1 Co-operation with international cultural organiza-  tions (paragraphs 15 to 34 and documents 8C/DR/27  and 57)
(6) The CHAIRMAN then opened discussion on para-  graphs 15 to 34 ‘of Chapter 4 of document $C/5 and  paragraphs 15 and 21 of Corrigendum 1 to that docu-  raent, and on the {wo draft resolutions relating to that  section of thé Department's programme - documents
8C/DR/57 and 8C/DR/217.
(7) Mrs. MARTINS (Brazil) remarked that, while the  draft resolution in document dC/DR/5* had been in-  spired by the most- praiséworthy ihtentions, it post-  poned any real achievement until a fairly distant date.  Modern life was too quick and too dangerous for such  a time-table, Art was clearly à an ‘essential étemént  in the apiritual needs of all the peoples of the world,  as was witnessed by the ‘masterpieces found all over  the world and dating back to the earliest tichés. . ‘When  all was said and done, art would ‘remain ‘when evéry-  thing else had disappeared. She was therefore dis-  agreeably surprised to find “that Unesco gave it such  an insignificant place in its programme. - Quoting  the new achievements recorded daily’ ‘throughout the  world, such as the museums established in Brazil and  such events as the Venice and Sao Paulo Biennalés,  she remarked that Unesco's proposed programme  and budget showed no improvement with regard to  art. ‘The subvention proposed for the ‘International    PROGRAMME COMMISBION  Council of Museums remained at $20, 000, that for the  International Association of Plastic Arts had been --  slightly Increased from $8, 000 to $13, 000, the Inter-  national Music Council was still to receive $24; 000;  and the International Theatre Institute $25,000, She  thought that the treatment being meted out to the arts,  in comparison with that accorded to certain more:  favoured activities, was indefensible, and she drew  the Commission's attention to the point,
(8) Mr, BARBEY (Switzerland), referring to the in-  troduction to Chapter 4 of document 9C/8, remarked  on the frequent use by Unesco of words formed from  the Latin prefix cuin, such as co-operation, ete,,  whereas both in di; éussion and in documents; the  word "create" wh 4 séldom encountered,” Creation was  the act of an nit vidual, whether of a painter, a  sculptor or à s.ientist; and if it were to continue to be  possible in tae contemporary world, it was more than  ever necessary to provide the vital conditions for  creation,’ namély freedom, security and silence, He  reminded the Commission that a conference had been  organized in Venicé in 1952 to discuss those problems,  and asked what action Unesco had taken on its findings,  He urged Unesco not to lose sight of the need for pro-  tecting both scientific and artistic creative work.
(9) Mrs, WADIA' (India) endorsed the remarks of the  delegate of Switzerland concerning the essential con-  ditions of treédom, security and silénce in the field  of the creative arts,” Those conditions were, of -  course, implicit in the wider aim of the programme  of the Department of Cultural Activities to promoté  universal undérstanding of all peoples and of all cul:  tures. Th - natural conclusion of such uriderstanding  would be international cé-operation, and thé Indian  delegation therefore strongly supported the projects  listed under section 4,1 - Co-operation with Inter.  national Cultural Organizations, The various sub-  ventions proposed,’ in particular that to the International  Council for Philosophy and Humanistic Studies, were  not only necessary, but would undoubtedly prove to be  fully justified by the co-operation and better under-  standing they achieved.
(10) Mr, LORENTZ ‘(Poland)’ ‘said that his delegation  was in favour of an increase in the subvention to the  International Council of Museums. He emphasized  that Unesco's work in connexion with museums had  developed conafderably in the last few years and that  co-operation among museums had become far mère  active than it liad been in the past, The international  campaign for museums, cariiéd out by ICOM at the; -  insténce of Unéséo, had been extremely successfp;  while the Museographic Documentation Centre had  proved most useful, ’ “ICOM helped to further intér-  national understanding and the forging of links of  friendship among ‘thé peoples,  The General Assembly of the International Council  ot Museums had decided to ask Unesco to increase lis  subvention from $20, 000 to $25, 000 and he hoped that  its request would be favourably considered.
(11) Mr. EIBISCH (Poland) said ‘that his delegation  supported the proposed iricreasé in the subvention to  the International Association of Plastic Arts. ‘A the  same time, he observed that the additional $5,000   PROGRAMME COMMISSION  proposed by the Director-General seenied modest,  considering the services rendered by the Association,  which was making a valuable contribution to cultural  relations, To carry out the enormous programme  it had undertaken, considerable funds were required,  and he feared that the shortage of funds at its disposal  might lead the Association to give priority to exhibi-  tions of graphic art, as they were less expensive than  exhibitions of painting and sculpture, He felt that such  a course would be regrettable from the point of view  of the development of the visual arts.
(12) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that, although she  recognized the desire of many members to increase  subventions to certain very deserving bodies, the  Commission could consider only those proposals that  had been submitted in writing before the agreed time-  limit.  {13) Mrs. PARONETTO VALIER (Italy) endorsed the  remarks made with reference to the need for Unesco  to continue encouraging research in the arts and tree  creative work. She stated that the Italian delegation  supported the requests for increased subventions to  ICOM and the International Association of Plastic Arts.  {14) Mr, LITVIN (Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic)  considered the question of ‘co-operation with cultural  organizations to bé of vital importance to Unesco, as  the organizations concerned provided a link between  Unesco's work and the ordinary pedple, and could thus  give the Organization invaluable help,  Hoe drew attention to the important work done Ly the  International Council for Philosophy and Humanistic  Studies - with particular reference to the peaceful uses  of atomic energy - and by the International Union of  Architécts; and recommended that their subventions  be increased,
(15) Mr. HOPF (United States of America) expressed  his delegation's strong support for the proposals under  discussion, International cultural organizations were  instrumental in carrying out many of Unesco's aims  and played a large part in promoting international  understanding. He congratulated the Secretariat on  the encouragement given to those organizations to ex-  pand the geographical range of their activities and to  become more truly international (paragraph 16). Many  of the groups had béen formed in Western States and  it was encouraging to note their incréased interest in  other parts of the world, He wondered, however,  whether the Department was well advised in éntrusting  the subvéntion for musicological activities to the  International Council for Philosophy and Humanistic  Studies, as it would seem that the item might be more  appropriately administered by the International Music  Council. Also with respect tothetield of music, his  delegation would propose that Unesco should sponsor  two or three regional seminars on music education,  In co-operation with the International Society for  Music Fducation; he would be pleased to elaborate  that proposal at the appropriate time.
(18) Mr. BOGDANOVIC (Yugoslavia) drew the atten-  tion of delegates to draft resolution 9C/DR/57, which  recommended a study of means of assisting the arts  in general and of making more effective use of them,
391  IV-17  The arts were a most effective means of seconding  Uneaco's endeavours with regard to mutual under-  standing, but that was pot the only important point,  Unesco should help the various associations in which  artists were grouped in order to develop their possi-  bilities, ‘The object of the proposals contained in -  document 90/oR eT was to explore the méans of  supplying such assistance, and the Yugoslav delefation  would be happy to see those proposals approved,  He pointed out that some forms of art were more  direct in their appeal than others. Without wishing  to establish an order of merit, he stressed that the  drama was one of the most influential of the arts, He  therefore advocated an increase in the subvention to  the International Theatre Institute, which had heavy  responsibilities to bear. The first International  Theatre Conference had been held at Bombay und had  aroused such interest in all the countries of Asia that  the idea of establishing a theatre faculty in that area  had been mooted.
(17) Mr. NAVRATIL (Czechoalovakia) drew delegates’  attention to a discrepancy between the text of document
8C/6 and that of document 8C/5 Corrigendum 1, with  regard to the purpose of the subvéntion to the Interna-  tional Union of Architects, While 9C/6 réferred to  surveys relating to the erection of buildings "devoted  to cultural purposes", the Corrigendum spoke only of  the erection of ‘’schoo! buildings", As the amount of  the subvention was the same in both documents, it  would appear that the intention of document 8C/6  Corrigendum 1 was further to limit the Association's  activities. That seemed to indicate that the subven-  tion was too small and he would therefore propose  that the Guestion be reviewed.  ocre  with the delegations of Denmark and Yugoslavia, the  draft resolution contained in document SC(DR/ 57, pro-  posing the establishment of a small consultative’com-  mittee to make recommendations for future action in  that field, It was hoped that the report of that Com-  mittee would lead eventually to the establishment of  an International Council for Arts and Letters, similar  to those existing in other fields.  He also drew. attention to a draft resolution co-spon-  sored by his delegation relating to the maintenance and  adaptation of traditional cultures - document 8C/DR/56,  and asked why a further draft resolution from the  Norwegian delegation - document 9C/DR/114, relating  to the International Theatre Institute, had not been  circulated, although it had been submitted before the  specified time-limit.
(19) The CHAIRMAN explained that document 9C/DR/114  had been deemed to bé not receivable by the General  Committee, since it related neither to one of the three  major projécts nor to items included in the Annex to  document 9C/5 Corrigendum 1. The extension of the  time-limit for the submission of draft resolutions laid  down in the Rules of Procedure had been made only ‘a  respect of proposals relating to those subjects.   IV-17 PROGRAMME
(20) Mr, RUDRA RAJ PANDE (Népal) sald that his  delegation welcomed the programme of the Department  of Cultural Activities, especially those projects deal-  ing with international understanding, the protection of  cultural property, the development of libraries and  museums, and the n  production of reading material for  new literates. erring to the cultural heritage of  his country, he drew attention to its library contain-  ing rare old manuscripts, its art and arch tecture, its  museums and archives, end to its efforts to stimulate  its literature, His Government had also recently en-  acted a law for the preservation of its cultural property  and had taken steps to prevent the export of cultural  treasures, He hoped that Unesco would extend its  activities in those fields to his country, although his  delegation recognized that Member States should not  only expect to receive aid, but should also contribute  to the achievement of Unescois aims, Above all, his  country wanted scholarships, fellowships and partici-  pation in the regional seminars and training courses  that would help to form national experts to replace the  technicians sent from other lands, .  In conclusion, he sald that the better world in which  all humanity would live and thrive could. not be achieved  until greater and more sympathetic consideration was  given in the development of the Unesco programme to  the underdeveloped countries of the world,
(21) Mr, YERUSALIMSKY (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) hoped that, interesting as the general ob-  servations that had been made were, the discussion  would be kept on a realistic basis. He saw rio point  in trying to establish an order ‘of merit in the arts.  He drew the Commission's attention to the very small  subvention proposed for the International Union of  Architects, Quoting the example of India, where ar-  chitecture had reached an incomparable level from the  very earliest times, he expressed the hope that it  might have the opportunity of developing similarly in  the modern era. -He therefore proposed that the sub-  vention to the International Union of Architects be  considerably increased,
(22) Mr. OITTINEN (Fintand) spoke in support of  the programme resolutions ‘under consideration, and  of draft resolution 9C/DR/57, presented by the dele-  gations of Denmark, Norway and Yugoslavia, He was  also in favour’ of the  Norweglan proposal, not accepted  by the General Comrhittee, that the Internationat  Theatre Instituté be granted an increase of $20, 000  in its subvention for the two-year period, as he felt  that that body had an important part to play in develop-  ing better understanding of the nature and rôle of the  theatre in modern society.
(23) Mrs. PARONETTO VALIER (italy) remindéd the  Commission that thé Interriational Theatre môtitute  had been established for the dual purpose of forming  firm cultural ties among the nations of the world and  of checking the crisis with which the theatre was  threatened, ~ While she paid, tribute td the efforts made  by the Institute, she felt that the results had not come  up to expectations. At the Venice Conference in 1952,  the Institute had oxpressed the hope that arrangements  would be made for the free circülation of theatrical  works, She wondered what had been done in that  direction since. Moreover, the Institute appeared to    COMMISSION  have dropped the idea of establishing a single language  theatre. She suggested that it might be useful to re-  quest the Institute to submit a report to the General  Conference at its tenth session, giving detalls of the  way it had used its subvention for the attainment of the  alms set it.
(24) Mr, FATONE (Argentina) said that his delegation  would support any measure conducive to the development  of cultural activities, He supported the Chilean pro-  posal for the organization of a Latin American Theatre  Congress, and considered that that proposal would help  to compensate for the deficiency in the International  Theatre Institute's subvention. Since the theatre was  sald to be the form of art making the most direct appeal  to the public, he thought it was only logical to assist  its development.  He had been struck by the attitude of one of the dele-  gations which had submitted the draft resolution con-  tained in document 8C(DR/57; paragraph 6 in that  document referred to ‘subventions to a limited number  of truly international organizations”, but he felt that  such organizations might well riot be those represen-  tative of the art most accessible to the public.
(23) The CHAIRMAN observed that, in ruling à ceriain  number of draft resolutions not receivable, the General  Committee had authorized the Chaïrman of the Pro-  gramme Commission to receive proposals for minor  budgetary adjustments, either upwards or downwards,  from the floor, The proposals so far made during, .  the course of the discussion, however, sought to In-  crease the budget of the Department of Cultural Ac-  tivities by a total of $44,000 and no proposals had  been made regarding possible compensatory reductions,  She therefore felt that the Commission should observe  the rule regarding the submission in writing, and by a  specified time, of proposals having budgetary impli-  cations, and should regard the proposals made from  the floor merely as suggestions regarding future budget  and programme proposals to be made by the Secretariat.
(26) Mrs, DEVI @ ndia) ‘expressed the interest of her  delegation in the evelopment of the arts, which re-  presented a universal language based “only on a sense  of beauty and’ aesthetics, and which, therefore, weré  especially iinportant in bringing people together, Music  was a fundamental art and the.work of the International  Music Council was of tremendous importance, It was  generally ‘said that the Fast understood inore of Western  art añd culture than the West understood about the East,  but she did not think there was yet any real understand-  ing in thé East of Western music, * although that under-  standing was gradually spreading and growing’ deeper,  There was also a great desire in the West to under-  stand Fastern music, but, that was no easy task, since  Fastern music was based’ on developments through ihe  centuries, It might,’ therefore, be useful to develop  some form of notation to act as a gulde for better urider-  standing. In thal connexion, too, she would urge that,  besides recordings and publications, Unesco also con-  sidér the preparation of biographies of great musicies  of the East. There was little knowledge in the Wes! of  some of the remarkable musicians of the Fast, She  also thought that a contribution to the better mutual  . understanding of Fastern and Western music could be  made through the translation 6f great books on music,
392   PROGRAMME COMMISSION  referring particularly to some of the great Sanskrit  writings on music, Finally, when recordings were  made, Unesco should try to ensure that they were made  by the people who best understood the music to be  recorded,
(37) Mr. NIELSEN (Denmark) felt it was unnecessary  to say anything further in support of the draft resolu-  tion presented jointly by the delegations of Denmark,  Norway and Yugoslavia, but urged that steps be taken  towards the establishment of an International Council  for the Arts at the earliest possible moment. He  felt that the existence of such a Council would do much  to vstablish a balance between the different arts, and  between the action of existing bodies in different parts  of the world.  Drawing attention to the pitifully small subvention  allocated to the International Union of Architects, he  said that, when he had raised that same matter during  the 44th session of the Executive Board in July, he  had been told that the Union had made no application  for an increase in its subvention. He asked whether  any such request had since been received by the  Secretariat.
(26) Mr. BARBEY (Switzerland) pointed out that the  amounts of the subventions allocated to international  non-governmental organizations did not directly reflect  Unesco's opinion of their importance, The subven-  tions were merely an indication of their needs,” If it  were to be assumed that, because an organization  received only a small subvention, Unesco did not con-  sider it important, some of the subventions would have  to be increased tenfold, Under the directives in  force, subventions were allocated after a thorough  examination of the needs of the beneficiaries, It was  not the task of the Programme Commission to study  such needs or to establish an order of importance  among the various fields of activity of the individual  organisations, but it could proceed as had been done  in the case of the International Council for Philosophy  and Humanistic Studies, and ask the Director-General  whether, without throwing the budget out of balance,  he could increase the subventions to certain  organizations.
(29) Mr. JORDANA DE POZAS (Spain) said that, in  compliance with the Chairman's request for brevity,  he would refer only to paragraphs 23 and 27 of the  chapter under discussion. With regard to paragraph
23, he stressed Spain's'interest in everything related  to the theatre, which was one of the most effective  media of communication and that most in need of assis-  tance. His delegation would thérefore support the  resolution contained in document 9C/DR/27,  With regard to paragraph 27, dealing with the  International Union of Architects, his delegation ‘  agreed with what the delégate of Switzerland had said.  The figures given in the budget could only refer to  work already coramiiséioned by Unesco, but thé sum  was not sufticient if surveys on the ‘construction of  schools were to be carried out. Hè thought everyone  was aware of the high cost of school buildings and it  was well known that, very often, the major obstacle  to the development of primary education was not the  shortage of qualified teaching staff but the tack of  buildings, It would therefore be interesting to hear
393  IV-17  about the experience of other countries in that respect.  He stressed that the Spanish delegation had supported  the increase in the subvention concerned when it had  been discussed at the session of the Executive Board,  It was mentioning the matter again at the current meet-  ing because of the importance of the object in view,
(30) Mr, BOGDANOVIC (Yugoslavia), referring to  what the delegate of Italy had sald, stated that the  International Theatre Institute had in fact passed a  resolution with the object of securing better facilities  for the circulation of films, That resolution, which  had been sent to all the member governments, was,  however, concerned with censorship, and censorship  was not within the Institute's field of competence, The  fact that the resolution had not produced more effect  was not due to any lack of goodwill on the Institute's  part, but to a state of affairs it was powerless to  alter,  In conclusion, he drew the Commission's attention  to the cut in the subvention to the International Union  of Architects, which he found surprising,
(31) Mr. KHALIQ (Pakistan) said his delegation had  been very impressed by the comprehensive and useful  programme presented by the Department of Cultural  Activities, ‘It was particularly interested in the.  commendable work of the International Council of  Museums and would endorse the recommendation that  the subvention to that body be increased by $10, 000,  His delegation was also very interested in the projects  relating to the translation of great works, the protec-  tion and preservation of cultural property (in connexion  with which it would welcome Unesco's assistance), and  the improvement of mutual understanding of Eastern  and Western music,
(32) Referring to the draft resolution submitted by the  delegations of Denmark, Norway and Yugoslavia {docu-  ment 8C/DR/57), Mr, REININK (Netherlands) poted  that the resolution appeared to be directed only at  organizations working in the field of the creative arts.  That would preclude the inclusion of the International  Council of Museums and, as museums ‘played : such an  important rôle in the arts and education in general,  doing much to promote knowledge of the arts and in-  crease {international understanding, he would propose  that the words "including the International Council of  Museums" be inserted in paragraph 5 (a) of the draft  resolution, after the words "affiliated with Unesco",
(33) Mr. FATONE (Argentina) felt that the Commission  was possibly regerding the question under discussion  as financially ‘insoluble, when there was in taét a pro-  posal from the Director-General for the distribution  of the additional $1,000,000 by which the budget had  been increased whith might provide the solution to  all the problems,  He pointed out that two items in document 9C/! 5  Corrigendum 4 were relevant’ to'the current ‘dlacussion,  One of them read: "For intensifying public information  services to encourage public support and understanding  of the project, a provision of $39, 000 is proposed",  The other provided $40, 000 for "studies on the Social  Science aspects of the project". He asked whether the  Director-Genéral's representative would give an  explanation on those points.   IV-17
(34) The CHAIRMAN declared the discussion closed  and called on the Acting Diræctor of the Department of  Cultural Activities to reply to the questions raised.
(35) :Mr, KIRPAL (Acting Director; Department of  Cuitural Activities) noted that almost all speakers  had paid tribute to the work of the various international  cultural organizaticns to which Unesco granted sub-  ventions, and repented his earlier assurance that the  Secretariat attachzd great importance to their co-  operation and would continue to support and encourage  their activities, : There had been a general feeling  that subventigns to à number of those organizations  should be increased, but he thought that the remarks  of the delesate of Switgérland' in that respect were  pertinent, The subventions had indeed been fixed  after à lung period of consultation with the organiza-  tions concerned and, if certain among them were to  be increased by various sums, the balance that had  beer: nidintained by the Department over a period of  years might be affected,  Referring to the draft resolution presented by the  delegation of Chile {document 9C/DR/27), Mr, Kirpal  said the Secretariat félt it would be à good idea to’  organize a Theatre Congress in Latin América but  wondered whether the International Theatre Institute  vrould be preparéd to undertake that task in 1958, and  whether the arrangements in the area were sufficiently  advariced to enable the projéct to be carried out in  that year: - Ît might be preferable to postpone the  project {6 the 1989-1660 programme,  Should the proposal made in document 9C/DR/5%  be ‘adopted, he budgetary implications would be over  $3, 000 if the size of the Comniittee were restricted  to five members, and over $5, 000 if the Committee  was composed of sevén members, "In that connexion,  however, hé would draw attention to the refererice to  the liaison commitiée of intérnational organizations  cohtained in paragraph 33 of document 9C/5. He  believed that that comniitiée could undertake most of  the functions for which it was proposed that the new  consultative commitiee should be set up, and work  towards ‘thé uli{mite solution of the establishment  of an International Council of the Arts, as proposed  by thé delegate ‘of Denmark.  Replying to the question raised by the delegate of  Switzerland regarding the conference held in Venice  in 1852, Mr. Kirpai sald that thé Secretariat had  attached great importance to that Conference, and that  failure to implement any of its resolutions had been  due solely to the limited nature of the Secretariat's  resources, It should be hoted, however, that boththe  International Association of Plasti¢ Arts, and the  liaison commiitee of international organizations, had  been established as a direct result of that conference.  Furthermore, there had been a large increase in the  number of fellowships awarded by Unesco in-the field  of the arts, EE, -  Replying to the question of the United States delegate,  Mr. Kirpal explained that the décision to allocate the  subvention for musicologica) activities to ICPHS had  been taken on purely administrativé grounds, and with  the full consent of the other organizations concerned  in the project. No difficulty would arise with regard  to the distribution and use of th:se funds.  Replying to the delegate of Denmark, Mr. Kirpal  indicated that the Internaticnal Union of Architects had
394     PROGRAMME COMMISSION  now applied for an increased subvention of $16, 000,  The point raised by the delegate of Czechoslovakia  related merely to the correction of an error that had  been made in the earlier document,
(38) Mr, THOMAS (Assistant Director-General),  while appreciating the intention behind document
9C/DR/57, did not consider that the draft resolution  would be of much practical help in solving the problems  raised, While it was desirable that contacts with -  artists should become more and more extensive, the  convening of a consultative committee would not greatly  alter the situation. The Danish delegate had referred  to an idea that had already been discussed in Unesco,  namely the establishment of an international council  for the arts and literature, similar to the International  Council for Philosophy and Humanistic Studies or the  International Social Science Council, Mr. Thomas  thought the Commission might recommend that the  Secretariat make a more thorough study of the possi-  bility of setting up sucha body in order that the General  Conference niight take a decision on its establishment,  provided that sufficient funds were available, at its  tenth session, ~  With regard to the proposed subvention to the Inter-  national Union of Architects he stated that, when the  Executive Board, at its July session, had expressed  surprise at the modest subvention proposed, he had  explained that the International Union had not asked for  more and his statement had been included in the minutes,  The President of the Union had later visited the Secre-  tariat and requested that the subvention be raised to  $18,000, ‘The Executive Board, in July, had expressed  its sympathy with the association and it was probable  that, had the request been received in time, it would  have recoinmended the revision of the amount of the  subvention, ,  Replying 16 the delegate of Argentiria, Mr. Thomas  explained that the estimates in document 9C/5,  Corrigendum 4 for the distribution of the additional  $1, 000, 000 included no additional funds for the sub-  vention under discussion.
(37) At the request of the Chairman, the SECRETARY  read out the text of resolution 4. 11 (paragraph 17).
(38) Upon a vote being taken, that resolution was  adopted unanimously.
(39) The SECRETARY then read the text of resolution
(40) That resolution was put to the vote and adopted  unanimously,
(41) At the request of the delegate of Denmark, the  CHAIRMAN agreed that a separate vote should be taken  on the two proposals contained in document 8C/DR/21.  Before proceeding to a vote on the two draft resolutions  before the meeting, she called upon the sponsors of  those proposals to reply to points raised during the  discussion.
(42) Mr. BOGDANOVIC (Yugoslavia) said that, in  view of the explanations given by the Assistant  Director-General and Mr, Kirpal, he would associate  himself with the former's proposal regarding the possible   PROGRAMME COMMISSION  estcblishment of an international council for the arts  and literature,
(43) Mr, NIELSEN (Denmark) announced his willing-  ness to accept the amendment of the fifth paragraph  of document 9C/DR/67 proposed by the delegate of  the Netherlands. However, 'he saw little contradic-  tion between the proposal put forward by his dele-  gation and the suggestion made by the Secretariat,  the aim of both being to prepare proposals withregard  to the establishment of an International Council of the  Arts for inclusion in the programme and budget to be  presented to the General Conference at its tenth  session, If the Secretariat felt that it could under-  take that task on its own initiative and without the  assistance of a consultative committee, he would be  prepared to withdraw the proposal made by his dele-  gation, although he felt it might be wise to make some  small budgetary provision, such as the $3,000 sug-  gested by Mr. Kirpal, for that item.
(44) Mr. HOPE (United States of America) expressed  his delegation's entire approval of the proposal made  by the Assistant Director-General, and suggested that  effect could be given thereio by a slight amendment  to paragraph 33 of the Chapter on Cultural Activities  in document 9C/5.
(45) That proposal was seconded by the delegate of  India.
(46) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) proposed the addition  of the words "with a view to the preparation and es-  tablishment of an International Council for the Arts  and Literature in the near future" at the end of para-  graph 33.
(47) The CHAIRMAN pointed out that the proposal of  the delegate of Belgium was a substitute proposal and  being the proposal furthest removed from the original,  should be voted on first,
(48) The proposal was then seconded and it was  stated that it had no budgetary implications.
(49) Upon a vote being taken, the amendment pro-  posed by the delegate of Belgium was adopted  unanimously.
(50) The proposal contained in document 8C/DR/57  was therefore not maintained.
(51) The CHAIRMAN then called upon the delegate  of Chile to answer points raised in connexion with  the proposals of his delegation presented in document
(52) Mr, PINO SAAVEDRA (Chile) said that, as alt  the delegates who had spoken had been in favour of  his resolution, he had not considered it necessary  to speak earlier. He merely wished to explain  certain points arising out of some of the remarks  that had been made.  He wished to make it clear that the project was  both national and regional in character, for the bene-  fit of all the Latin American countries, and that it  had been submitted, within the time-limits specified
398  IV-17  by the Secretarial, after mature reflection on the  part of the Chilean theatrical circles that had examined  it, All bodies concerned with theatrical and cultural  activities had made their contribution to the idea of  organizing the Congress, So that delegates should  grasp the problem better, he stated that in his country  attempts were being made to arouse public interest  in the theatre through the performance not only of  national works, but also of plays from Europe and  the United States of America. Interest in the Spenish  classics and indeed in plays dating back to mediaeval  times had also been revived,  He announced that preparations for the Congress  were under way and that help would be received not  only from Unesco but from all the Latin American  countries,
(53) Mr, BOGDANOVIC (Yugoslavia) supported the  Chilean delegate's proposal, which he considered as  falling within the scope of the ITI's activities,
(64) Upon a vote being taken on the first part of the  proposal made by the delegation of Chile - i.e, to  increase the subvention to the International Theatre  Institute by $5,000 - that proposal was adopted by 29  votes to 5, with 19 abstentions.
(55) The CHAIRMAN then pointed out that the second  part of the proposal contained in document 9C/DR/ 21  related to work plans, She would not, therefore, ask  the Commission to vote on the text as presented, but  would ask it to vote on the principle that a Theatre  Congress should be organized in Latin America in
(56) Mr. de BERREDO CARNEIRO (Brazil) asked  whether, out of regard for the independence of ITI,  the proposal should not be submitted in the form of  a recommendation from the Programme Commission  supporting the organization of the congress,
(57) The CHAIRMAN accepted that proposal,
(58) Upon a vote being taken, the Commission decided,  by 23 votes to 1, with 29 abstentions, to recommend  that a Theatre Congress be organized in Latin America  in 1958,
4,2 International Exchange of Information (paragraphs
35 to 51 and document 9C/DR/1)
(59) The CHAIRMAN asked what would be the budgetary  implications of the proposal contained in document
9C/DR/1 if it were adopted.
(60) Mr. KIRPAL (Acting Director,’ Department of  Cultural Activities) said that, if implemented as  suggested by the delegation of Uruguay, the proposal  contained in document t/DR/1 would cost an addi-  tional $5,780, However, the Secretariat would pro-  pose that the matter be referred to the Intérnational  Advisory Committee on Bibliography; it would be  necessary, for that purpose, to co-opt two additional  experts onto that Committee, and to extend {ts next  meeting by one day, the total cost involved being
(61) The proposal contained in document 9C/DR/1 was  seconded by the delegate of Spain.
(63) Mr, BOURGEOIS (Switzerland) supported the  Secrétariat's proposal that the ‘question be submitted  to the International Advisory Committee'on Biblio:  graphy, which was perfectly compétent to deal with it,  The International Federation of Library Associations  had, incidentally, been stidying some of the activities  referred to in document 9C/DR/1 for several years  past. ‘He suggested that a Uruguayan representative  be invited to take part in the discussions when the pro-  posal was considered by the Advisory Committee, and  recommended that the Libraries Federation of Uruguay  become a member of the International Advisory Com-  mittee on Bibliography,
(83) Mr, ESTABLE (Uruguay) acceptéd the suggestion  of the head of the Department of Cultural Activities that  the proposal be submitted to the International Advisory  Committee on Bibliography. He stressed the impor-  tance of a clear system for the classification of books  by means of appropriate particulars, but as he was  not the expert who had prepared the draft, he would  have preferred not to speak on the subject.
(64) There being no further discussion on the item,  the CHAIRMAN called for a vote on resolution 4, 21  (paragraph 36).
(65) Thé resolution was adopted unanimously,
(66) The CHAIRMAN then put to the vote the proposal  contained in the draft resolution presented by the dele-  gation of Uruguay) (document 9C/DR/1), the budgetary  provision therefor to be $2, 000 and the method of work  to be that suggested by the Secretariat.
(67) The proposal was adopted by 43 votes to 0, with
14 abstentions.    PROGRAMME COMMISSION
4,3 International Agreements (paragraphs 52 to 91 and  documents 6C/PRG/7, 8 and 14)
(68) The CHAIRMAN called on the Rapporteur of the  special working party set up to study that question to  present his report (document 9C/PRG/14).
(69) Mr, VAN PEURSEN (Netherlands), the Rapporteur  of the working party, reported that the working party,  having examined documents 9C/PRG/7 and 9C/PRG/8,  had not altered the substance and had made only a few  corrections to the wording, ‘The working party re-  commended that they be transmitted to the General  Conference,
(70) The CHAIRMAN noted that the changes proposed  by the working party related to the draft recommenda-  tions contained in documents 8C/PRG/7, Annex, and
8C/PRG/8, Annex II,
(71) Mr, CHEDIAK (Cuba) referred to draft resolution
4,31, and proposed that the Spanish text be amended to  read "'.,, se invite a los Estados Miembros a ratificar  la Convencién Universal sobre Derecho de Autor ,,.",  instead of "a adherirse a' as many of the countries  that had signed the Convention had not yet ratified it,  and should do so as soon as possible, especially when  it was considered that they were Members of Unesco,  which had sponsored the Convention.
(12) The CHAIRMAN, having agreed with the delegate  of the United States of America that the Commission  needed time to consider the report of the working party  before proceeding to vote on resolutions 4.31 and 4.33,  adjourned further discussion of that item to the next  meeting of the Commission.  The meeting rose at 1.5 p.m.  EIGHTEENTH MEETING
26 November 1956, at 9.30 a.m.  Chairman: Mrs. MYRDAL (Sweden)  FUTURE CONDUCT OF THE COMMIION'S BUSINESS
(1) The CHAIRMAN announced that the night meetings  which it was intended to hold that week would deal with  the residual discussions on the various chapters of the  Proposed Programme and Budget, = |  In view of the short time still available to the Com-  mission in which to complete its work, she suggested  that a working party be constituted té prepare for thé  Commission's consideration of Chapter 7, Genéral  Resolutions, by holding some preliminary discussions    at two meetings on that chapter, and reporting théreon  to the Commission, . She suggested the following mem-  bership, which appeared to énsuré equitable geographical  distribution and was of a workable size, for the Com:  mission's consideration: Afghanistan, Argentina,  Australia, Colombia, Cuba, Egypt, France, India, ‘  Japan, Lebanon, Netherlands, Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics, United Kingdom and United States of America.  ‘ (2) Mr. ASSUMPÇÂO DE ARAUJO (Brazil) asked what  criteria had been used in selecting the countries to