8 November 1956, at 3. as p.m
4 President: Mr. LAPIE (France)  CONTENTS  General discussion of the Director-General's report and  the Proposed Programmé and Budget for 1957-1958 (cori-  tinued): Speeches by the delegates of Ecuador, Ceylon, °  Greece, Venezuela, Malaya-British Borneo Group, Phi-  lippines, Poland and Nepal. . . . . . . 42220 Ce  GENERAL DISCUMMON OF THE DIRECTOR: GENERAL'S REPORT  AND THE PROPOSED PROGMAMME AND BUDGET FOR 1067-1058  (continued) -
(1) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):
(2) Mr, ARROYO (Ecuador) (Translation ft om à the  Spanish); Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen; the  fact that the ninth session of Unesco's General --  Conference coinciGes, with the tenth anniversary of  the Organisation's birth invests our deliberations with  an iniportance which is all the gréster in that we have  now to outline our plan of action for the second decade,  on the basis of the experience acquired, the diffi-  culties ovércome and the fruit gathered during the  Organization's first ten years, …- =  And because Ecuador beligves’ that i has done its  utmost to raise its cultural level - using its own  resources as well as those generously. offered by .  internstidaal organisations, Unasco in particular, to  meet the people's growing demand for schools and to  give students greater possibilities of learning - -  Ecuador recognises the full value of this Conférence,  and hopes that it will provide a well balanced plan |  capable of satisfying the sapirations of ail the Member  States. . . 101501 0045 7 à yt .  The distinguished delegates to hia assembly know  that my country is confronted by the problem of à .  high percentage of illiteracy, or a high proportion of  peradris whose education has been inadequate. But  alongeide of this there has been developing for some  years; among the broad masgen of the people, à  desire to- acquire educytion and training - through  ‘primary education, the kumaiiities or technical,  instruction - so that they shall be able, not merely to  discharge their full duties as citizens, but also to - -  derive greater benefit from their rights of citizenship  and lead an independent and congenial existence.  It 1s worth noting that in the last three years our  children's ‘school éttendènce has risen from
360,000 to 455,000, that {a by nearly 100,000 pupils -  a figire which reflects ts hot so much the increase in  population, as the people's general desire, to which I
78  have alluded, that their sons should have the  benefits of education, Despite this gratifying ©  increase, however, the fact remains that there are
220,000 children who attend no school -, à high figure  in à country of 3,700,000 inhebitants, of whom
675,000 are achool ce. children agod between six  and twelve, .  To meet this growing demand, ‘the Gôvernment is  endeavouring to provide more schools by, construct-,  ing the necessary hulldings and by appointing more.  teachers. À comprehensive plan for the building of  schools is being implemented and 300 primary :  schools, suitably distributed throughout the country;  have already been completed ; Budgetary allocations  for the recruitment of new teachers have been  increased, but not in the proportion required by the”  growth of the school population, The upshot is that  there are too many pupils in each school and in each  form. ;; .  This greater attention te public education has 3  been made possible by an increase ini the education  budget which rose, from 1883 to 1956, by 50,000,000  sucres to reach the present figure of 134,000, 000  sucres, that is, 15, 37 per opnt of the entire budget  of Ecuador. , , --  However, if we havé made considoradis mértdés  towards educational improvement - not, only  primary but Bec in secondary, higher and echnical  education - we are far from haying satisfied all the,  country’s needs; and some of the measured adopted  are purely. provisional; such’ as ‘those which last  month, at the of the school year, | enabled  us to accommodate, in the mountain schoëls of -  Ecuador, 20,000 children who would giherwise have  had no schtol, because of overfilled quotas. |.  We need appreciable help to deal with primary  education ‘and fo ensure that all the children can  attend school under normal conditions and in accord-  ance with the regulations. Year. after year the pop-  ulation asks for more schools and more teachers,  in order to avoid the painful alternative of an  increase in the number of iliiterates, who at present  constitute, in fact, 30 per cent of all the country's  inhabitants. And although the literacy campaign is   PLENARY  gethering impetus and yielding appreciable quanti-  tative results, it can be fully successful only if - .
30,000,000 sucres are allotted to it - à mim based on  the cost of teaching reading and writing to 170,000  adults in the course of the last few years, . ...  Conscious that this situation was exercising the  Ecuadorean authorities; the Head of the State, Dr,  Camilo Ponce Enriquez, spoke as follows to the -  pation when he assumed the Presidency of the  Republic: "We must think of the Ecuadorean children  who lack classrooms, teachers, and all educational  - children who, through luck of care; are  deprived of the priceless services of culture. Let us  refrain from Byzantine discussions so long as there  sre illiterates in the country. The duty of & govern-  ment, while preserving all the necessary freedoms;  is to apply the resources of the State to the develop-  ment and improvement of public education, without  making it into a rival of private education, whose  importance is undeniable and whose fruits are daily  enriching the country's collective output. Any place  vhere a school is lacking should receive the attantion  of the Government; wherever a teacher is lacking,  there should the Executive feel a responsibility.  Schools and more schools, teachers ond more  teachers". |  The lack of primary teachers is not so great es  might be imagined, Teacher, Araining institutes  provide each year a number, of gradustes who are  ready and willing to ‘perform the tasks for which they  have been trained, The basic: problem is constituted  My the need for the State to &'}72d to the many aspects  the nation's development which, thanks to the peace  and orderly life we enjoy. has entered upon a stage  that r s the, allotment of public funds to health  potential does not permit greater a in the  sducational field than that already described,  As there is no financial elbow room, very many  teachers cannot obtain State employment and this, in  the final analysis, results in a number of children who  cannot attend school and a number of teachers who  remain idle, The solution would be economic assist-  ance for the building of new schools and the paying of  new teachars,  Along with the fundamental problem of setting up.  many more schools, Ecuador is concerned to improve  in those which’ already exist, With ‘this in  view, the curricula and syllabuses of primary,  secondary and Joncher yey pie ul hin  been the Ernie hey of refresher courses, both for  those who teach in schools without holding a diploma  and for thowe certificate teachers who w -  improve their knowlédge of the subjects they touch  and of modern educational uystems. The refresher  and other courbes, which have multiplied in the last  two years, have benefited from the resolute help of  the supervisors and professors whom Unesco has .  sent to serve in Ecuedor. ;  Apart from the teaching services, we have aiso to  consider the inspection services, whose task, before  that of ia: spervision, must be one of collaboration and *  fuidancé; this involves a new policy, under which the  MEETINGS
1-7  inspectors shall be qualified to help the teachers in  the solution of their professional problems. A  training centre for school inspectors has been  established to meet this requirement sd to train  other education officials.”  For the accomplishment of these tasks (apart  from those entrusted to specific experts), Ecuador  has received valuable assistance from the experts  provided by Unesco, in a way which has earned the  gratitude of my country. -  Last May the Regional Conterence ot Unesco took  place in Lima; it was attended by Ecuador, which  afterwards published aad distributed the important  agreements reached there, as it also did in the case  of the Sexuinar on Curricula held in Lima during the  same period.  In this connexion, Ecuador desires to draw,  respectfully but explicitly, the on of the -  General Cotiference to the Lima Declaration, which  particularly invites Unesco further to co-ordinate  its efforts with those of the governments, with a  view to finding a solution for the urgent problem,  facing the Americas, of 45 million adult illiterstes  and 14 million children without schools, oo  Confident that all the Member States of Unesco |  appreciate the problem of the school age population  which is prevented, by lack of funds, from having  the benefits of education, my Government initiated,  last month, the study: of à national plan of education  designed to provide primary schooling for all  children of school age, in order that the pumber of  illiterates, which owing to the literacy campaign is  coustantly decreasing, should not be sweijed again  by new contingents of people who, in their youth,  have been unable to find a place in the schools. .  In relation to this problem, with which the :  American continent and many countries of other  continents have to contend, Ecuador is very anxious  that the General Conference “should, ‘at this ninth  session, consider the project of cresiing an inter-  national fund for education, science and culture.  We appreciate the considerations put forward in the  replies received by the Director-General from  various Member States which oppose the project or  fear that it will interfere with other current forms  of assistance. Nevertheless, | Ecuador beliéves that  it is time to deal with the problem constituted by so  many millions of peopie who are deprived of the  benefits of the most elementary education. .  To devote to the abolition of illiteracy the  financial savings which the world could affect .  through a reduction of armaments - generators of  war as the laiter always are - would be of great .  benefit to that basic culture which is the coment of  peace... ..  It is true at Unesco has speciticaily concerned .  itself with the extension of primary education in  Latin America; we have nothing but praise for that  concern, and consider that the relevant project  should go forward; but we hope : it will be amplified,  since, as at present conceived, it bears only ça the  training of teachers on a small scale, whereas a  complete solution of the problem involves the  construction of schools, money to the new  teachers, and social assistance for the children who,  for financial reasons, are unable to receive an ,  education. - Co   I-17  Ecuador needs 2,400 additional schools, money  wherewith to pay 5.700 new teachers, and financial  aid for a largé part of the 220,000 children who are  deprived of schooling because the poverty of their  families places it beyond their reach. The inter-  national fund for education suggested by Unesco, and  recourse to the International Bank for Reconstruction  and Development, would make it possible to remedy  this deplorable state of things.  With the genuine desire to contribute to the greatest  possible success of Unesco's valuable efforts, I wish  to refer briefly to thé programme and budget for
1957-1958, which is systematically conceived and  drafted with ability throughout; the part dealing with  Aid to Member States is’ particularly worthy of  mention. We observa, however, the retention in it of  a principle of centralization wi.ich milfiates against  regional activity, against the action that should be  taken by the National Commissions; this tends to  reduce the aid activities in which we are so interested.  The Havana Regionel Centre is called upon to perform  a useful task in co-ordinating work and studies in  connexion with the needs of Latin America; but it is  poorly equipped iñ personnel and resources in  relation to the functions it could discharge if the  principle of decentralization were followed.  We also think that the budget for Aid to Member  States should be increased by meane of certain  reductions made at headquarters. We hope for a new  policy ih this sense which; based on decentralization,  would serve as à guide during the next ten yéirs. We  hope that this will bé reflected in Unesco's éducational  publications, which should contain sections devoted to  national and regional tasks. It is, of course, impos-  sible to expect that publications dealing with matters  of world-wide interest should go deeply into regional  questions that do not concern everyone. The useful  publications of general character issued by Unesco  would deal with- matters of international interest,  while regional or local publications would study in  greater detail the special aspects of educational or  cultural questions affecting a particular region or  country.  Ecuador's experience with regard to the technical  personnel that has rendered such important services  authorizes us to advocate the establishment of a  better balance bétween technical and administrative  staff, because it is difficult to escape the impression  that there is at present an excessive amount of  bureaucracy, prejudicial to the assistance which is  so badly héeded by many Member States. In such an  adjustment, geographical considerations should play  their part, as suggested two years ago at Montevideo  by my country's representative, Mr. Martinez Cobo,  who adduced among other arguments the advantage of  bringing about some affinity between the experts and  the surroundings in which they were called upon to  work.  Fundamentsl education has always been in the  forefront of Unesco's preoccupations. It is likewise  of exceptional interest to Eéuador which wishes, on  this subject, to put forward certain considerations  for the Conference's favourable attention. It is  immediately evident that there is an appreciable  difference between the programme concept of  -  Fundamental Education and that of Pre-School and  School Education. Their respective allotments are
80  PLENARY MEETINGS  $552,006 and $369,637. This difference, even if we  take into account the major project on extension of  primary education in Latin America; suggests that  fundamental education is thought to deserve more ’  attention, perhaps because of the general belief:  that it scrves a greater number of Member States.  We, however, think that pre-school and school  education merits greater attention and endowment -  with greater resources, in accordance with the  priorities laid down by the last General Conférence,  which assigned pride of place to the problem of free  and compulsory primary education. The principla  of "schools for all" is gaining wider aécéptance  every day, and répresents the most géneral desire  of all the peoples. Furthermore, primary education  and fundamental education are not conflicting  concepts, or éven differing ones; on the contrary,  primary schools are, for us, the best means of  implementing fundaméntal education effectively, and  the Lima Regional Conference recognized with  telling unanimity, that the two concepts could not be  dissociated. If, by devoting our efforts to funda-  mental education, we neglect primary education, the  basic problem will subsist indefinitely. Sound and  universal primary education, on the other hand,  would very soon make fundamental education  redundant.  Let us develop primary education and so orientate  it that the work of the school spreads to the coin- -  muriity; in this way we shall at once succeed in  extending the’ range of education to the adults who  at present lack any kind of culture and, subsequently,  in providing a substantial éduéation for the children,  who will thus become citizens independent of any  special educative effort by the State. Interesting  experiments have been made in Ecuador with a type  of rural school in which, as soon as the school is  built, everything is planned with a view to extending  the benefits of education to the community  surrounding it.  If the primary teacher is to carry out this double  task - that in the school, and that affec ing the  inhabitants beyond and around it - he must undergo  special training, covering different aspects of the  same activity. In order to bé able to perform a  task so much more responsible than that of pure  teaching, this type of teacher will have to possess  exceptional qualifications. Teaching is primarily a  vocation, and only incidentally should it be regarded  as a means of livelthood. The rural teacher,  trained in céntres which endeavour to provide him  with the best qualifications, must go into the field  to carry ot his mission, since in no other way can  the State's sfforts to prepare hifi for that type of  mission be justified. Quite often, however, he  prefers to rémain in the town, rivetted to à bureau-  cratic desk, so completely throwing away the value  of his training or betraying vocational déficiency.  Lét us recall what Rabindranath Tagore, the great  master of whom India is justiy proud, said to the’  students of Tokyo: "To be a teacher of children it
1s essential to be like a child oneself, to forget what  we know and to forget that we have attained to the  maximum of knowledge. If anyone wishea tobe a  true guide of children, he should not think that he is  older than they are, that he knows more than they do,  or anything of that kind; he must be an elder brother   PLENARY  willing to accompany them on the same path of  adventurous knowledge and aspiration. The only  advice 1 can give you on this occasion, if you are to  dedicate yourselves to the education of children, is  this: (Cultivate in yourselves the soul of the eternal  child".  Let us help those nations which, like Ecuador, are  faced by grave problems, mainly of an economic  order, but which at the same time are giving evidence  cf à strong desire for cultural improvement, are  resolutely collaborating with international organiza-  tions and are genuinely drawing the best from the  efforts which Unesco is making on their behalf, either  through Technical Assistance, the supply of library  equipment, or financial aid and the granting of  fellowships.  Whatever Unesco may do for us from now on will  have, for Ecuador, the real value of effective colla-  baration and the spiritual significance of having beeh  planned on the soil of India, a country with thousands  of years of culture, whose philosophers and poets are  treasured by our scholars and our youth, and whose  conquests include the sincere goodwill of the  Ecuadorean people, The Indian people - as the  eminent head of the Indian delegation said at the  eighth session of the General Conference, held at  Montevideo - can rightly claim that it is democratic  because it upholds political freedom, freedom of  conscience and freedom of choice between parties,  and, as it again showed us on 1 September last, does  not exclude the possibility of changing its government  by peaceful and legal means.
(3) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):
1 call upon the representative of Ceylon.
(4) Mr. WEERAKOON (Ceylon); Mr. President and  fellow delegates, permit me, un behalf of the Ceylon  delegation, to associate ourselves with the tributes  that have already been paid to the Government of India,  and to express our thanks for her generous hospitality.  To us in Ceylon, India is Jambudvipa, the sacred land -  the land of the Buddha. India is Bharata Varsha - the  land whose civilization is as ancient as the Himalayas  and whose wisdom, like some perennial spring,  continually irrigates every field of humen thought.  India is our spiritual home, to which we are bound by  bonds more enduring than man made treaties, Our  hearts have bled in the’ days of her travail and we  have rejoiced in the hour of her triumph, We watch  with pride the consummate ease with which she has  taken her place in the councils of the nations and plays  a dominant rêle. therein, It is most appropriate that  in this year of the Buddha Jayanti when India has made  elaborate preparations, to pay homage to the greatest  of her sons, whose teachings are among the dearest  treasures in the heritage of mankind, Unesco should  decide to hold its nlth session in India. It is also a  fitting tribute to her endeavours in the cause of peace.  I should like to congratulate the Director-General  on his lucid and comprehensive report. The widé  and varied activities of Unesco, with its ramifications  in the four corners of the world, are bewildering  enough to daunt a newcomer like myself but for the  . fact that the Director -General takes him by the hand,  as it were, and leads him through the tangled pathways.
1 trust, therefore, that the few comments I have to  MEETINGS
81  II-7  offer on the report may not make it appear that,  despite expert guidance I have lost my bearings,
1 note that the Director-General has drawn the  correct lesson from the projects which have borne  little or no fruit, namely "the importance uf ascer-  taining and giving great weight to > the felt needs of  Member States throughout the programme”, I crave  the indulgence of the President and of this august  assembly to dwell for a moment on the felt needs of  my country.  Like all other countries which have just emerged  from colonial status, my country. has had to face  problems in practicaily every field - economic,  social and educational, ‘We have certain achieve-  ments to our credit, particularly in improving the  living conditions and the health of the nation, But  these very achievements have resulted in other  problems, problems created by an increasing  population wedded to a more or less stagnant  economy, 80 that, | like Alice and the Red Queen, we  have to run as fast as we can merely to remain  where we are, Obviously, if we are to make  progress, we need assistance in every field and  primarily in the field of education.  Most of our educational problems stem from ‘the  fact that, while in the past we had concentrated, so  far as secondary. and higher education is concerned,  on schools using English as the medium of instruction,  we had shamelessly neglected the indigenous languages,  that is, the media used by 90 per cent of the school  going population, When therefore, with the dawn of  independence, it became ineyitabie that the language  of the vast majority should become the language of  higher education as well, the country, awoke to the  tremendous and tragié fact that this vast school  going population had been nourished, or rather it  nourished; on a diet s0 meagre and so devoid of  nourishment that it cannot be called intellectual |  withçut doing violence to language. Shoddy textbooks, ‘  which were in most cases bad translations of English  books produced by unscrupulous publishers, ‘formed  the basis of this diet. Science and mathematics  Were undiscovered countries so far as these children  were concérned. - The suggestion was then made that  secondary education should continue in English until  books aud, to some extent, teachers became available.  No publisher, however patriotic he may be, is going  to publish books for a non-existent market. Even  patriotism is a commodity sensitive to the operation,  in the field of economics, of the inexorable law of  supply and demand. Besides, the country was in no  temper to brook delay. in these matters, The State  had to face the issue or face the consequences, We  have met the challenge with a certain measure of  success. Textbooks have been published in all  subjects, including mathematics and science. The  so-called English schools have switched over to the  languages of the country without serious deteriora-  tion of standards. But there are problems which  we still have to face. Critica of our educational  policy parade before our eyes the dazzling display  of well printed and beautifully illustrated books in  English on various subjects, which form what is  commonly called the background literature of the  average English-speaking child. "What", they ask  us, "have we to offer the Sinhalese and Tamil-  speaking children in place of these books?"
1-7 PLENARY MEETINGS  Publishers are chary, even if they have the means, of  publishing books for an uncertain market. The Depart-  ment responsible for publishing school books cannot  undertake so vast a task, particularly when it is  engaged in publishing essential textbooks, Nor can  we get competent men to write such books in  Sinhalese or Tamil, ‘Here is a problem for the  solution of which my country will be grateful to Unesco.  For some time to cone we shall have to depend on  translations for the provision of such literature. 1  have particularly in mind such books as the Junior  Oxford Encyclopaedia. If modern facilities for the  printing of these books, the securing of translation  rights and the cost of translating can be assured to us,  we shall have taken the first step towards a solution.  in this connexion I should like to mention ‘that the  science museum for children, for which we are  grateful to Unesco, will go a great way towards  stimulating children's interest in matters scientific;  but without books, this interest will wither away. In  a sense, therefore, Unesco will be only completing a  task it has already begun if the asaistance I have  asked for is granted.
1 also note with satisfaction that resolution IV.1.4.
441 of the eighth session provides for the translation  of a selection of classic and modern works, but I note  with less satisfaction that, with the exception of  Arabic, all the translations so far undertaken have  been into European languages. I hasten to agree that  the attempt to interpret East to West will result in  the realization of one of the fundamental sims of the  United Nations and Uriesco, but what I wish to  emphasize is that, thanks to the labours of the great  savants of the past from duropesn countries, there  is no dearth of translations of Eastern classics in  the major European languages, What is required in  those countries is a greater diffusion of these classics.  A good number of Kalidasa's works are, I believe,  available in German, English and French. - But how  many students even of universities in those countries  have heard of Kalidasa, the greatest Indian poet! 1  am not competent to spéak of other Eastern countries,  but in my own country, while Shakespeare ia still read  in the original and Milton and Goethe and Victor Hugo  are not unknown because English has been the language  of secondary education, the time may come when  English will bé ‘studied not for its literature but as a  means of keeping abreast of scientific and technolo-  gical developinents - niuch as science students in  English universities study French and German,  English and French classics are now being translated,  but in the majority of céses they are poor adaptations  or abridged versions hurriedly produced by publishers  who are anxious to exploit the lack of supplementary  reading material in Sinhalese and Tamil. It would be  a thousand pities if the great European classics  became a closed book to the future generations of my  country. 1do not wish to suggest at this stage what  Unesco can do in this direction but the question is well  worth its attention. .  Mr. President, I do not wish to weary you or this  assembly with these parochial problems of ours, but  coming as I do from What is called an underdeveloped  area, I should be failing in my duty to my country if I  did not stress the importance of Technical Assistance  tous. The section in the report on the Expanded  Programme of Technical Assistance makes heartening
82     reading. Here is a story of assistance given to  countries where assistance is most needed, Though
1 am saddened by the fact that my country does not  figure prominently among them, yet the title of the  chapter "General developments and future planning"  gives me hope. Our needs, I believe, are the same  as those of any underdeveloped country. We make  budgetary provision for various developméntal  projects, but they are hampered by lack of personnel,  We plan, for instance, a programme of school  buildings, but the operations are always behind  schedule, The reason - lack of technicians. Indeed  all our projects, in every sphere of activity, suffer  the same fate, Turn where we may, the cry is the  saine - ‘no technicians, no technologists', Under  the Colombo Plan we have sent a number of our  young men to be trained abroad on fellowships. An  additional school for junior techniclans will come  into being next year, but these activities will bare  make an impression on the gaping void created by  the absence of technicians. Either we must send  out hundreds of young men to be trained abroad or  we must increase the number of technical schools  and staff them with foreign specialists, since our  own men cannot be withdrawn from the jobs they are  doing in order to teach. I sincerely trust that the  magnitude of our needs will be the measure in  determining the nature and scope of Téchnical  Assistance to my country - not its smallness of size.  I am a member of the néw government that has  recently come to power. Ii is a people's government  willed into power by the voice of the people, which  has spoken {clear and resonant terms. We  believe, therefore, that we are able to face our  economic and educational problème in all their  complexity without prejudice’ and without a sense  of guilt. No false sense of pristige will deter me -  from asking for assistance to solve oùr problems,  it such assistance will bring closer the day when the  Welfare State which we plan will become a reality.  Mr. President, those of us who have been privi-  leged to participate in the delibéFatiors of the ninth  session of the United Nations Educational, Scientific  and Cultural Organization must’ ‘siisurédly experience  a sense of thankfulness that the opportunity has been  vouchsafed to theni of furthering, through such  participation, the cause of the United Nations.  Whatever setbacks thé United Natiohs has suffered  in the past, and whatever trials and tribulations it  endures today, it can be asserted without fear of  contradiction that that organization represents the  most successful attempt so far made to translate  into fact the dreams of idealists throughout the ages.  It {s my conviction that, of all the agencies  created for the purpose of realizing the United  Nations' ideals,’ the most effective ard the most  significant is Unesco because its primary concern  is with the minds of mei where, in the wards of the  preamble to the Constitution, the defences of peace  must be constructed,  Let us hope and pray that it be granted to Vs in  the nôt too distant future to advance beyond the  construction of defences and lay therein the  foundations of the New Jerusalem, the City cf God.
(5) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):
1 call upon the delegate of Greece.   PLENARY MEETINGS  {6 Mr, AVEROFF (Greece) (Translation from the  French): Mr. President, fellow delegates, I should  like first of all, on behalf of the Greek delegation, to  thank the Government of India for its very warm and  friendly welcome to this ninth session of the General  Conference'of Unesco. ;  Although I belong to a country which has for so lung  beèn regarded as one of the greatest sources of  Western wisdom, I must say that the choice of New  Delhi is in itself symbolical. For it is clear to  everyone that the frontiers of Western spiritually  have expanded in time and space (Unesco itself must  rejoice in this), and Indian thought has thus become  ane of the most substantial and meaningful elements  in the intellectual heritage of every civilized man of  our time. ; ; ;  The Greek delegation has greatly appreciated the  report presented by the distinguished Director-  General of Unesco, as well as his proposed pro-  gramme and budget. ! shall not dwell on the details  of these documents, although it would have given me  pleasure to stress how well, in oir view, one of the  major projects, in particular, corrèsponds to  Unesco's essential mission. For, as has already  been said here, only a better mutual appreciation of  buman values and a better education of future  generations can consolidate peace throughout the  world. .  The most striking features of the documents  presented by the Director-General are their precision,  clarity and realism. In this the Director-General  has proved himself a worthy son of the New World,  which is not content with mere abstractions and  general ideas but regards practical achievement as  the main criterion of values, in the conduct not only  of individuals but also of peoples. The delegation of  Greece fully approves this standpoint. To concentrate  the noble efforts of Unesco on a given number of  fields in which positive results can sooner or later  be obtained - that, for us, must be the highest counsel  of wisdom. .  These considerations, however, call for certain  observations. First of all, these practical achieve-  ments must conform with the main general ideas on  which our Organization is based,. And in this  connexion, everyone, I suppose, will agree that what  has been acconiplished in the past two years has  usefully served the great aims of Unesco. Yet the  desire to concentrate the programme in the interests  of practical effectiveness should not absolye us from  the duty of considering, with the courage and frank-  ness characteristic of "spiritual"man, certain  situations which, in our. eyes, constitute a grave  failure to implement the great principles that it is  our duty to defend. IE LL  One of the most fundamental of these principles,  ladies and gentlemen, is that of freedom of | .  conscience, especially in the sphère of education.  You are all acquainted with paragraph 3 of Article
26 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,  which stipulates that parents have a prior right to  choose the kind of education that shall be given to  their children. Well, the Government and people of  Greece have found themselves obliged, to their very  great regret, to observe that a great power, to whom  we are bound by traditional ties of friendship,  esteem and fruitful co-operation, in peace as in war,    u-7  has allowed itself to impede the free exercise of  this principle in a territory whose Greek character  has been demonstrated throughout history, at least  as far back as the Mycenaean era, and possibly  before.  The Conference is certainly aware of the tension  which at present exist on the unhappy island of  Cyprus; and it might be inclined to attribute this  infraction of principle to the excoptional conditions ‘  prevailing there at the moment, But the Greek  delegation wishes to point out that these restrictive  measures are not a consequence of the present crisis;  they can be traced back 75 years, to the time when  the island came under British rule. You can imagine,  ladies and gentlemen, the importance that the Hellenic  Government attaches to this problem, viewed not  merely from the Greek angle but also from the angle  of a universal spiritual policy which must be that of  Unesco. oo La . ;  ‘The Hellenic Government has accordingly found  itself under the painful necessity of bringing this  question before the Executive Board and obliging the  Board to devote valuable time to it. I should,  naturally, have far preferred simply to praise what  this Organization had accomplished in the last two  years under the highly competent stimulus of the  Director-General and the whole of the Secretariat,  in application of the directives given them by the  General Conference at its Montevideo session,  where Greece was represented by a veteran of  Unesco - the late Professor Photiades,
1 take this opportunity of recalling and honouring  the memory of my eminent predecessor - a man of  heart and spirit who, from the very foundation of  Unesco, represented his country so competently,  and who has been taken from us so prematurely,  both Greece and Unesco being thus deprived of his  mature experience and of his intellectual integrity;  a man who knew how to reconcile the interests of  his country with those of this international  organization. . ; . CL  Could these interests, indeed, ever clash? 1 think  not; for, ladies and gentlemen, it would be useless -  even perhaps presumptuous - on the part of a Greek  to stress that thy ideas of universalism and liberal-  ism were born in Greece. And it is this very  identity between the aims pursued hy Unesco in our  time and those pursued by Greece throughout her  history that has caused the Hellenic delegation to  take up its present position before you - namely an  attitude of goodwill and readiness to collaborate  sincerely with all, on the basis of a universal policy  in things spiritual.
(7) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):
(8) Mr. PARRA-PEREZ (Venezuela) (Translation  from the Spanish); On behalf of the Government and  people of Venezuela, I wish to express to the Gov-  ernment and people of India our heartfelt gratitude  for the hospitality extended to our delegation at the  ninth session of Unesco's General Conference,  assembled today in a country which is one of the  most distinguished in the history of the world, This  many sided, magnificent land of India was, in ancient  times, one of the greatest sources of human culture;   n-1  today, under the skilful guidance of her statesmen, it
1s an example of idealism and wisdom, in à world  beset by uncertainties and perils.: It would séem as  though a benign and foreseeing destiny had willed that  the representatives of so many countries should meet  here at this time, when the fate of mankind is hanging  in the balance, so that we might draw faith and hope  from the perennity of this admirable ration, as well  as inspiration from the Hives of its great men, past  and present, and from the traditional reverence of all  its people for the supreme values of the spirit.  The Venezuelan delegation appreciates fully, and  regards as a happy omen, the fact that we are called  upon to work for éulture, science and education under  the Indian sky and on that Asian continent which ia so  essential a factor in the new world balance.  My country, which was one of the first, at the San  Francisco Conference, to support the principles  championed by Unesco and inscribed'in the Charter  of the Uriited Nations, and since that time has never  ceased to support them, is gratified to note the  progress achieved despite difficulties and obstacles,  and is resolved to continue co-operating with the  other Member States in the pursuit of common and  attainable aims, - ‘  In the first place, 1 should like to convey to the  Executivé Board, thé Director-General and all his  assistants thé ‘gratitude and admiration of Venezuela  for the work which they have accomplished 80  intelligently and unselfishly, and for the energy they  have displayed in the discharge of their duties.” As  one who, to some extent, has been associated with the  Organization's work during the whole of the past ten  years, I can testify to the efficiency of its directors  and other ofticiald, and it gives me great pleasure to  do so at this time.  On behalf of the Venezüelan Government, my  delegation approves the programme of work prepared  by the Director ‘General and endorsed by the Executive  Board. We hope to be able to express our views on  the details of the programme vhen they come up for  discussion in the appropriate Commissions. |  I should, however ; like to éay here and) now that we  particularly favour the’ major projéct for the extension  of primary education in Latin America (teacher  training).’ The Vénezuelan Government has achieved  substantial results iri the field of public éducation ‘in  recent years, and will : {nue to lend ita‘assistance  to Unesco and the Organization of American States in  everything calculated to develop and extend primary  education services. Venezuela is resolved to main-  tain its aid to the Intér=American Rural Normal School  at Rubio and is highly gratified to noté Uneéaco's co-  operation in this extremely important project, which  was initiated by the Organization of American States,  with the strong support of the Venezuelan Government  and which from time to time requires amendment in  the Mght of experle.icé,  ‘This is an instance; similar to the Régional Funda-  mental Education Centre for Latin América at  Patæcuaro, of how fruitful Unesco's co-operation with  the Organization of Anierican States cafi be. That  centre is analogous to thé Arab States' Centre, whose  maintenance and development should also be  encouraged by every possible means. :  One of the major aims of our delegation will be to  secure the strengthening of the Regional Office for
84  PLENARY MEETINGS  the Western Homisphere, at Havana, and of the |  Montevideo Office which is responsible for carrying  out the programme of the Department of Natural  Sciences in Latin America. The Venezuelan ;  delegation will also support the proposed establish.  ment of similar centres for South and South East  Asia. It is obvious that the activities of all such  centres v ill not only strengthen the bonds between  Member States, but will also be the most effective  means of channelling aid to underdeveloped .  countries,  The Venezuelan delegation wilt also vote for the  major project concerning scientific research on i  arid lands. Already, last year, our Government  expressed its views to the Director-General on this  matter and offered its immediate practical co- .  operation, indicating the form it might take and the  area which might serve as an experimental one in  Venezuela. We are determined to encourage this  kind of research, which is of importance to the  whole world; and we see with great interest and  pleasure that the project is to benefit certain  particular regions of Asia.  Our country - one of the so-called "countries of-  immigration" - attaches great importance to appro-  val of the resolution concerning the cultural  integration of immigrants; we consider it very  desirable to continue these studies, and to carry out  the recommendation made on the subject by the  recent conference in Havana.  Our Government is gratified at the progress  made with Technical Assistance, on the lines  adopted by the United Nations; and it congratulates  Unesco on its part in activities of this kind, which-  Venezuela regards as of basic’ importance and from  which it has already begun to benefit, both under the  general Technical Assistance programme and under  Unesco's own programme of Aid to Member States.  Our delegation approves; in principle, the draft  resolutions contained in Annex I to the proposed  programme and budget.  Similarly; the Venezuelan Government attaches  great importance to the activities undertaken by the  Department of Cultural Activities, and I am happy  to congratulate that Department on its notable  achievement. * My delegation will support and vote.  for the draft resolutions, whether of a general or of  a special nature, explained and commented on in  Chapter 4 of the programme.  Lastly, we shall pay the greatest attention to and,  so far as our means allow, collaborate in the major  project on the mutual appreciation of Eastern and -  Western cultural values, evolved on the lines  suggested by the Regional Conferences of National®  Commissions held at Tokyo and Aix-en-Provence.  The Venezuelan delegation is particularly interested  in this aspect of the ‘problems of international ;  collaboration, since we have here an idea which,"  apart from its being of prime importance, served 8 as  an inspiration and guide for all of us who, before the  last war; endeavoured to promote what + was then  known as "intellectual co- operation”. If the New  Delhi Conference succeeds in placing this project’.  on firm foundations, it will have rendered a most  valuable service to the cause of humanity.
(9) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the   PLENARY  French): I call upon the delegate of the Malaya-  British Borneo Group.  (to) Mr. TOO (Malaya-British Borneo Group): Mr.  President, honourable fellow delegates, ladies and  gentlemen, as an Associate Member of this great  Organization, we feel it indeed'a great privilege and  honour to haye been invited to this ninth session of  the General Conference af Unesco; ‘and to have been  given this opportunity of addressing’ Buch a galaxy of  distinguished experts in the field of edueation,  science anid culture. On behalf of thé Malaya-British  Borneo Group, I wish to take this opportunity to  associate ourselves with the previdus speakers in  thanking this great country, India, for being our hosts.  The Malaya- -British Borneo Group consists of the  five small territories of British Borneo, Sarawak,  Brunei, Singapore and the Federation of Malaya.  Although these territories are groupéd together,  Singapore and the Federation of Malaya are. separated  and are quite far apart from British Bôrñéo, Sarawak  and Brunei, Each of these territories has its own  constitution and government, but the Federation’ ‘of  Malaya and Singapore have held election 8, a ‘majority,  though a small one, of the seats in the Legislature  being elective, In these’ ‘elections iri the Federation  of Malaya, the Alliance Political Party, consisting of  the United Malays‘ National Organization; the Malayan  Chinese Association, and the Malayan I ndian Congress.  each of which represents the rmiajori ‘ot its’own  community, won an astounding and ‘overwhelming  victory by capturing 51 out ‘of ‘the 52° elected seats,  an achievement which hitherto has been unheard of in  any election in : a democratic country.  Though we haye participated in the activities of  Unesco for less than three years, we have been able  to promote and achieve’ fruitful results in pursuing  the aims and objects of this great Organization. We  hold annually Unesco Weeks, during which the  students in the various schools are taught about the  ideals’ of Unesco. BE  As lam from the Federation of Malaya, which is  quite distant from British Bofréo, Sarawak and  Brunei, I regret | am not in a position to give you a  precise report on the. territories other than Singapore  and the Federation ‘of Malaya,  There are ‘at’ present the following organizations for  which both the’ Ministries of Education of the Federa-  tion of Malaya and Singapore | are ‘responsible: :  (a) the Malayan Scientific Advisory Council; (b) the  Art Council of Malaya and Singapore; (c) thé Céntral  Advisory Council on Education; {d) the Adult Educa-  tion Assoclatioh of Malaya and Singapore; (e) the  Malayan Public Library Association; (f) the  Information Service. |  Of these, the Adult Education ‘Assocation has.  spared no effort in fighting illiteracy in villages and  rural areas. The Malayan Public Library Associa-  tion, in addition to ‘establishing libraries in villages,  is assisting the Government to run adult education  classes in the villages throughout the country with  great success. The Information Service of the  Federation of Malaya has organized regular civics  courses to provide fundamental education for farmers  and people in the remote areas.  The Rural, Industrial and Development Authority  (RIDA), apart from sponsoring regular civics courses     MEETINGS
85  for Malays in the rural areas, is also giving  financial aseistance and encouraging the spirit of  self-help,  In the cultural field, in view of the multi-racial  nature of Malaya, education in itself presents a  very thorny ‘and delicate problem. The existing  policy formulated by thé previous Government of the  Federation of Malaya has never been able to satisfy  and sécure thé support of the various races residing  in Malaya In promoting their own culture. It has  been, on the contrary, a subject of constant  criticism and dispute.  Today, the Alliance Government in the Fédération  of Malaya and the Labour Front Government in  Singapore have wasted no time in ‘setting up -  education committees to formulate new policies  which will establish a national system of education  acceptable to the ‘people of Malaya as a whole,  satisfy their needs, and’ promote their cultural,  social, economic and political development as a  nation, having regard to the decision to make Malny  the national language ‘of the country, whilst presey-  ving and sustaining the growth of the language and  culture of other communities living in the country.  This will ensure every éncouragement and facility  for the various people who have made Malaya their  home to promote their own culture.” This is in line  with Unesco's aim of respecting human’ rights and  of contributing to peace and security through the  development ‘of mutual understanding of éach peopls's  culture. We face many. probléms due tô the diverse  elements which make up the population of our  country; nevertheless we dre confident, as we have  in all cases overcome these controversial’ problems  by practising the’ spirit of tolerance, under standing  and, above all, compromise, so that they are not’  accentuated by emotion and communal feeling. And  tolerance, understanding and compromise’ are the  lofty ideals of a lofty organization such ag ‘Unesco.  We have great confidehcé in our aspiration to  achieve independence by 31 August next y ear; and  we feel that an. independent nation must have its’  own national language. The Alliance Government  has won the ‘evpport ot the various commuñities tor  the acceptance, ¢ as the hationsl language, of Malay, a  language spoken by : 80 million people in Malaya and  Indonesia. Hitherto, thia' language has ‘been much  neglected, and has’ not ‘been given its proper place in  this country. In the report of the Alliance Education  Committee, which was adopted unanimously in June
1956, the Alliaricé Government recommends the  setting up. of à Literature Agency to ‘promote and  develop this ‘language. ;  Though our ‘country is small, nevertheless \ ré sre  rich in natural resources - mainly rubber. and tin.  However, these resources have, in ‘the’ past, never  been utilized to their fullest advan {age by developing  various industries in our own coulitry for the further  improvénient of our economy.” In this connexion we  seek technical’ assistance from Unesco. We propose  to bring this matter up for éonsideration by the  Technical Assistance Committee,  In conclusion, I wish to express, on behalf of the  group I represent, our gratitude for all the past  assistance Unesco has given ug, and to say that we  look forward to greater help in the future.  As I have mentioned earlier, we are present here   II-7  as an Associate Member, but it is our fervent hope  and desire that at the tenth session of Unesco's  General Conference we shall be present as a Member  State.
(11) The PRÉSIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon the delegate of the Philippines.
(12) Mr, AGUILAR (Philippines): Mr. President,  distinguished delegates to this conference, it is my  distinction and honour, as leader of the Philippines  delegation to this ninth session of Unesco's General  Conference, to bring to you the greetings of the  Republic of the Philippines and of its chosen leader  and President, His Excellency Ramon Magsaysay.  As provided for in its Constitution, my country  renounces war as an instrument of national palicy,  adopts generally accepted concepts of international  law as part of its law, and therefore is committed to  the very principles for which Unesco stands. With  such a background, the Philippine Republic, in all ‘the  vigour and gallantry of its youth as a nation, is happy  to participate in the affairs of this Conference and thus  to contribute ite measure toward the advancement of  the frontiers of human friendship and understanding  and peace.  The Philippines delegation has every reason to feel  grateful - grateful, in the first place, to this great and  ancient land of India for the many courtesies which  she has extended to us and which we shall long  remember as à treasure of Oriental hospitality;  grateful to. this Conference for the honour it has  canferréd upon the Philippines by its selection of Dr.  Concepci6n ‘Aguila, à member of our delegation, as  Chairmaiy of the Advisory Committee on Programme  and Budge 7. and grateful to the Director-Geénéral and  his Secretariat. tor, the attention and consideration  which they. have given to our draft proposals, some of  which are incorporated in the corrected copy of the  Proposed Programme and Budget for 1957-1958 which  you now have before you.  As regards this proposed programme and budget,  may | say thai the members of my delegation consider  it as a thoroughly exhaustive and excellent document  and find theméelves in essential 'aégréement with many  of the gestions and récommendations contained  therein. Nevertheless, with'your kind indulgerice, I  should like, in the name of my Government, to make  a few Observations on the entire programme and  budget, as follow: a  Firstly, there ‘should, in our opinion, be à more  equitable distribution of fellowships and’ scholarships  consistent with the circumstances and needs of the  Member States. Apropos of this, may I bring to your  attention the fact that’ out of 204 ‘fellowships and travel  grants offered by Unesco in 1855-1056, the Philippine  Government has so far been awarded only a limited  few? It should not be impossible, wé believe, for us  in the Philippinés to be given a little; more generous  attention than that. And we believe, too, that all such  fellowships and scholarships offered by Unesco  should bé channelled to the National Commissions,  which should be given a seat in the screening  committee.  Secondly, it appears to us that the regulations for  Aid to Membér States under the regular programme  as well as under the Expanded Programme of    PLENARY: MEETINGS  Technical Assistance need clarification, and perhaps  simplification, in order, first, to bring out the  striking features or comparative characteristics of  the two programmes, and, second, to enable Member  States to avail themselves as much as possible, and  in à manner consistent with their ability to "pay",  of the advantages and benefits theréof.  Then again, it is our earnest belief that the  Philippines ahould be the céntre of at least one ot  the major projects of Unesco, if only to provide  proof that this great Organization hus faith in our  capacity to contribute richly towards the realization  of its objectives. One such project might be the  Unesco Youth Institute for Asia, on which the  Conference may soon be required to take a  decision.  But let none of these observations that I have mads  even as much as suggest or imiply that we are not  satisfied with the work of Unesco, especially in so  far as the Republic ‘of the Philippines {s concerned,  For we are satisfied - and definitely or concretely
80. As a matter of fact, 1 should like to take a  couple of minutes to say that in the last three years  or so the Unesco National Commission of the  Philippines has taken forward steps in the imple-  mentation and furtherance of Unesco activity in at  least six areas, ‘naraely, ‘education, natural sciences,  social sciences, culture, exchange of persone, and  mass communication. Specifically, it bas helped to  promote the Philippines programme of comraunity  education; through the National Résearch Council  of the Philippines, it 1s continually stimulating  scientific studies calculates tô improve the living  clubs; it has held syniposia, seminars, and ‘forums  on'such subjects as "Atoms, for Peace", "Hunan 7  Rights", "Teaching about the United Nations and  International Underatanding", and "The Rôle of  Social Studies in Education for Lividg in a World  Community"; it has organized the Unesco Youth  Co-ordinating ‘Agency of the Philippines, which is a  federation of over 80 ‘youth associations in the )  country; it has digseminated | not only local but also  foreign culture through the holding of travelling art  exhibitions, of a: Philippine- Indonesian’ Cultural  Festival, and of the First Regional Music Conference  munication it has laboured unceésingly to remove  obstacles to the free flow of information and, what  is more, it has placed ‘the techniques and means of  communication available in the Philippines at the  service of universal peace.  What we, in that tropical land we hive been wont  to call the Pearl of the Orient Seas, have achieved  in furtherance of the aims and objéctives of Unesco,  I am certain you have likewise accomplished - ard  possibly to'a greater scale or degree - in your  respéctive countries. And so I maintain that we  have every reason to feel proud of our membership  in an organization like ours which can be - and  should be - the symbol and substance, the recrudee-  cence and reality, of mankind's hoes and aspirations  for a better world. It is precisely to seek a broader  and more sincere application of such sentiments ‘  that the Philippines delegation comes to the General   PLENARY MEETINGS n-7  .Conference - the first of its kind, if I may repeat  what has already been said, to be held within the  confines of this vast and teeming continent.  In its intrinsic prowess, the human heart is the  same the world over, Unfortunately, howave, ‘hat  ‘heart does not always act on its own kindly Loy AA 8  but allows itself to be imposed upon by a mind tn! /is  often weighed down by preconceptions and puaju”!.“ 3.  It thus becomes necessary that we work hard té J.ve  that mind further elucidations, to give to our know-  ledge of one another's countries grester dimensions,  to the end that we may discover - if we have not yet  done so - our common affinity and integrity as  members ¢f the human race. .  When we think of life in this wey, when we think of  it in terms of the ideals of service, then we shall see  in this august body the victory of the spirit in its  dedicated search for peace. Again, we shall see the  rewards of the Herculean efforts of men and women  in bringing forth the ideals and dreams for which the  United Nations was conceived. For these fruits of  human labour are a marked by monumental towers,  ner recorded in trinkets of silver, but are manifested  in the great developments in the fields of culture and  education, in the ever growing fulfilment of sciantific  research, and in the continuous delving into the  spiritual fields of human endeavour.  _ These grest contributions to man's progress Unesco  has inspired, directed and fulfilled and, if but for this,  the tenth anniversary of this noble Organizaiion  heralds the advent of happiness and realization. And,  of course, it likewise means years of earnest and  sacrificial labour on the part of us all.  Towards such a goal, in such a task, my country,  the Philippines, situated as it is at the crossroads of  civilization, nay, at the confluence of cultural  streams, feels itself sincerely competent to play a  decisive rôle, And that, ladies and gentlemen, we  propose to do. In counsel and co-operation with the  rest of this Conference, we propose to work for  stronger friendly relations with all countries of the  world and especially with the countries of Free Asia.  Indeed, we propose to participate, with every  resource at our command, in weaving an enduring  fabric for world peace, This, I repeat, is our  purpose and our pledge, and in God's good and  generous time we shall expect to realize it.
(13) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French):  I call upon the delegate of Poland.
(14) Mr. ZULAWSKI (Poland) (Translation from the  French): Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the  work of the ninth session of Unesco's General Con-  ference begins in a difficult international situation.  In our view, however, these circumstauces in no way  lessen the value of the discussions and resolutions of  this Conference. On the contrary, they give them  much greater importance, for such a situation  -imposes new responsibilities and new tasks upon us.  It is quite obvious that the progress and results of  our Conference will have an effect on the internation-  al climate, and, if we remain true to the spirit of |  Unesco's Constitution and to the objectives originally  set before the Organization, the ninth session of the  General Conference will contribute to the easing of  international tension. When our Conference opened,
87     we heard the clash of arms, sad circumstances  prevented a number of delegates from reaching the  seat of the Conference in time. But we do not  believe in the old Roman proverb "inter arms silent  musae", 1 think I am speaking for ali when I state  that, wherever there may be a clash of armas in the  world, the Muses in their turn should make their  voices heard, for their song is sweeter to the ear  of man. - Lo  The hopes placed in this Conference arc baged on  Unesco's rôle in the establishment of better  relations among nations, Education, science and  culture are the principal spheres of that co-opera-  tion and peaceful rivalry which we call coexistence,  and which is the characteristic feature of our era.  Is there in fact any finer kind of co-operation and  rivalry than in the fields of education, science,  culture and the arts? Here, the victory of one  nation ia the victory - not defeat - of the others,  and the enrichment of one always means the  enrichment of the common heritage,  The hopes raised by this Conference are also due  to the place where it is being held. We are the  guests of the great people of India - the country  which has founded its policy on the oxalted principlen  of ‘Panch-Shil"", the five principles that so justly  and nobly regulate relationships between nations,  whatever their size, wealth or power, I should like  to pay a tribute here to this magnificent country  which has received us, and to thank this noble  people, to whom international morality owes sn much  thet we can now spesk of India aa "the conscience of  the world, 1111 ;  Comparing the Proposed Programme and Budget  for 1957-1958 with the basic purposes of Unesco,  the Polish delegation notes that the programme and  budget gre, in general, in keeping with the aims and  methods of Unesco. The Polish delégation will  therefore support this programme and budget,  ‘reserving the right, however, to make certain  criticisms on particular points. At the same time  we wish, here and now, to make one general  observation. ( . Ce  It would seem that in order to fuifil its essential  Use  emphasize that mare value should be attached to  Unesco activities which contribute directly towards  enabling the various nations to kiow one another  better. To stimulate and encourage all useful forms  of co-operation and exchange betwéen nations and  their representatives in the fields of education,  science and culture - especially lectures and  meetings, seminars, fellowships, exchanges of  publications, exhibitions, concerts, films and radio  programmes - iw not that the best means of helping  the peoples to know each other batter?   o-7 PLENARY  The Polish delegation would particularly like to  stress the importance which it attaches to bilateral  contacts. ‘These, by their very naturé, make for  closer and more effective co-operation than do  multilateral contacts, essential though these latter  contacts are, The Polish delegation has always  considered that it was a prime task of Unesco to  extend material aid with a view to facilitating every  form of bilateral co-operation between its Member  States. I shall quote an example in support of this.  I refer to Unesco's recent experiment whereby, at  the suggestion of Poland and with the co-operation of  the French National Commission, it organized a three  weeks! Franco-Polish.seminar on social sciences.  Thirty young Polish research workers specializing in  sociology, history and economics were thus able to  meet an equal number of young French research  workers and discuss with them, under the guidance of  their professors at the Sorbonne, critéria of progress  in the social sciences. Next year, a similar meeting  will take place in Warsaw. It is obvious that, while  at first such discussions donot lead to any scientific  discoveries, they contribute in large measure to a  knowledge of the théory and practice obtaining in two  countries with différent systema, and to the establish-  “ent of human and scientific contacts. Thus they help
10 eradicate the mistrust - that seed of conflict - to  which the preamble to Unesco's Constitution refers.  The Polish delegation favours the holding of  regional conferences, such as those of the Asian and  European National Commissions which took place in
1956 at Tokyo and Aix-en-Provence respectively.  These conferences enable direct relationships to be  established, and lead to fruitful co-operation, between  countries of a given geographical region that are faced  by common or similar problems in the fields of  education, sclence and culture. For our part, we  should like to stress that the Aix Conference made it  possible for the Polish National Commission to  establish’ concrete forms of co-operation with a  certain number of European countries. In this  connexion we would draw the atténtion of the Géneral  Conference to the French National Commission's  very interesting iriitlative in inviting, this sumer,  a hundred or 80 young primary schoolmasters and  schoolqistresses | from many European countries to  act às essistant instructors in Frenéh holiday camps.  The Polish delégation considers that this excellent  enterprise should be copled ‘and generalized with  Unesco's help, and thus become a practice for all the  Member States. Poland intends to follow the French  National Commission's example next year, and  believes that other countries will do likewise, ‘  Our delegation is convinced that the country it  represents has much ‘to learn from many other  countries, great and small - from England, the Soviet  Union, Fr ancé, Czechoslovakia and the United States  of America - and this ié why we are particularly  interested in the development af every form of  exchange of persons: fellowships, seminars, round  table conferences, and exchanges of librarians,  archivists, architects, scientists, teachers and  artiets. _  _ We shall particularly support the major project on  the mutual appreciation of Eastern and Western  cultural values; we consider that it should have  priority over all the other major projects. It should  MEETINGS
88  be eniphasized, however, that this project, if it 1e"  justify the hopes placed in it, muat not merely be  confined to disseminating the historic yalues of ths  great Eastern and Western cultures, but must als),  and more particularly, cause present day facts, ir  all their complexity, to be known and understood by  the masses of the people in both these areas of the  world. 1 cannot help saying, in this connexion, that  the very conception of this project, and its imple-  mentation, seem hard to reconcile with the fact that  China, whose culture is one of the principal of the  East, is not represented, as it should be, in Unesco.  These, Mr. President, are the general remarks  to which I will confine myself regarding the pro-  gramme and budget; but I also wish to assure you  that you can count on the Polish delegation's  constructive co-operation during the discussion of  the various items of the programme, both at the  plenary meetings and in the Commissions of this  important assembly.
(15) The PRESIDENT (Translation from the French)  I call upon the delegate of Nepal.
(16) Mr. NANDA VAIDYA (Nepal): Mr. President  and fellow “delegates, on behalf of the Nepalese  delegation, I would first like to associate myself  with those who have expressed their gratitude to the  Government of India for its warm hospitality, We  Nepalese are not, of course, at all surprised at the  warmth of the hospitality, as we have had tastes of  such hospitality from the people and the Government  of India on various other happy occasions.  It is a happy coincidence that our country is hold-  ing the Fourth World Buddhist Conference at this  time when we are meeting here under the auspices  of Unésco to promote world peane through mutual  collaboration in education, séience and culture.  Hoth these coñferencés, 1 hope, will contribute to  the cause of world péace by giving light in this dark  hour of danger and distrust.  The Report of the Diréctor-General on the Activi-  ties of the Organization in 1955 shows that Uneaco  is making steady progress in its activities and that  more and more countriet: are taking increased  interest in them. We congratulate the Director-  General for having cast thé report in such an  excellent and precise form.  Although Nepal has been interested in Unesco  since 1949, when shé sent an observer to attend the  fourth session of the General Conference held in  Paris, it was only in 1953 that Népal signed the  Constitution and becañé a mémber of thé great body  of Unesco. Since thén Nepal has always’ cherished  the hopes and thé aims of Unésco. Nepal is proud  that she ie a meinber of the Organization and that  she also is contributing to, and receiving contribu-  tions from, the Organization; However small the  amount of contributions may be on eithér side.  Nepal, the birth-place of Gautama Buddha - having  cultural ties from very añéient times with her two  great neighbours, India and China - though her  cultural heritage le great, was until recently, we  regret to say, one of the least known and’ least  developed countries in the world. The dawn of  democracy in Nepal'in 1851 brought with it an  awakening which urged her to come into the   PLENARY  international field, She became a member of inter-  pational organizations such as Unesco, ‘WHO and FAO,  and her veil of isolation has been removed. Now that  Nepal has become a member of the United Nations  which stands for world peace and progress, she will  have better opportunities of contributing to world  peace in collaboration with all peace loving countries  of the world.  We only regret that the People's Republic of China  has not yet been taken in as a Member State of Unesco,  so that one-fourth of humanity hes been debarred from  collaborating with Unesco for the educational,  scientific and cultural uplift of mankind.  Our country is on the threshold of development and,  though we have made considerable progress in the  field of education and culture, we have yet much to  do to be in line and to keep pace with the developments  in other countries.  Though we have not yet been able to go much ahead  in accordance with the Unesco programmes in various  sphercs, we have always had the highest esteem for  the cause for which Uneeco stands. I might add at  this stage that our Government has recently been  taking special interest in the activities of Unesco and  is trying to organize a separate departinent under the  MEETINGS
1-7  Ministry of Education to deal with inatters connected  with Unesco, The holdiig of the General Conference  in India, so close to Nepal in every respect, will no  doubt give a great impetus in this direction,  The scholarships and fellowships granted to the  people of Népal by Unesco and other organizations and  by friendly countries - India, the United States of  America, the United Kingdom, France, the Union of  Soviet Socialist Republics, China, Australis, Czecho-  slovakia, Pakistan, Burma and others - have helped  and will help a great deal towards the development of  Nepal, especially in the fields of education, science  and culture.  We are going to embark on a five-year programme  for the development of our country, and the draft of  the plan lays speciel emphasis on education. Our  resources are limited but the work in hand is great.  With the help of our friendly countries and with the  help of governmental and non-governmental organiva-  tions, we hope to carry through our programme  more satisfactorily than is planned. We hope Unesco  will also be of great help in this great task of ours.  The meeting rose at 5.30 p.m.