29 November 1958, at 3; 45 p.m.  Chairman: Mr, MATSUI (Japan)  PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO PARAGRAPH 2  OF RULE 78 OF THE RULES OF PROCEDURE
(1) The CHAIRMAN, in opening the meeting, explained  that its purpose was to consider a question referred  to it by Joint Working Party No.1 of the Programme  and Administrative Commissions.
(2) Mr, ARTHUR (United Kingdom) (Chairman of the  . Working Party) read out the statement of the question.  The Joint Working Party wanted the Committee's  opinton on the possibility of amending paragraph 2 of  Rule 78 of the Rules of Procedure, so as to extend the  time-limit of ten days referred to in the existing text  to six weeks, It wished to know: (1) whether the .  amendment would be legally acceptable; (2) whether  -it would entail the need to amend other Rules of Pro-  cedure; (3) whether it would be possible to amend the  rule at the current session so that it would be applic-  able to the preparation of the Proposed Programme  and Budget for 1959-1960.
(3) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) sald that the first  question could be answered in the affirmative, He  drew the Committee's attention to a technical point:  if the time-limit were extended from ten days to six  weeks, it would become both posaible and desirable  to communicate new resolutions or amendments to  Member States. He therefore proposed that the Com-  mittee recommend the adoption ofthe following  wording:  “Proposals containing new programme resolutions  or amendments to the draft programme involving  new activities or increasing substantially the budget  estimates shall reach the Director-General in writing :  at least six weeks before the opening of the session;  the Director-General shall communicate them as  soon as possible to Member States".
(4) Mr. BERTRAND (France) approved ‘the’ ‘Wording  proposed by the Legal Adviser. With regard to the  second question raised by the Joint Working Party,  he felt that the proposed amendment to Rule 78 would  necessitate the amendment of other rules, ih parti-  cular, Rule 8, paragraph 2 (preparation of provisional  agenda) and Rule 10A, paragraph 2 {working dècu-  ments). All problems regarding time-limits were  difficult and interlinked, and he wondered whether the  Committee was in à position to examine all the  proposed amerdments.
(5) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser)  hplisd th t at ie Com-  mittee had indeed to examine the implications of the  proposed amendment with regard to other rules, As  paragraph 2 of Rule 78 referred oily to the draft’  ‘programme, the question of the agenda was of minor  importance. It would, however, be necessary to
701  revise Rule 10A. In fact, the Director-General's  work plan provided for the communication of the Pro-  posed Programme and Budget to Member States well  in advance. But aa the Rulea of Procedure were to be  amended on the question of amendments to the draft  programme, it would also be advisable to make a  change in the Rules relating to the date for commuai-  cating the proposed programme to Member States.
(6). Mr, SIMSARIAN (United States of America) pointed  out that the Working. Party had merely asked for the  Committee's opinion on an amendment consisting in  the substitution of one time- Umit for another, While  several proposals for the amendment of the Rules of  Procedure had been submitted, the Committee could  not examine them all at the moment, Since the time-  table provided for reasonably long time-limits, the  Committee might content itself with approving the  proposed amendment and recommending that the Sec-  retariat, after examining the whole matter of revising  the Rules of Procedure, submit » report on the subject  to the next session.
(1) Mr, BERTRAND (France) agreed with the United  States delegate on the importance of mentioning the  need for complete revision in the Committee's report.  But it was also essential to recommend the modifica-  tions that would become necessary, especially to para-  graph 2 of Rule 10A, and perhaps to paragraph 1 of the  same Rule.
(8) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) did not consider  that the Committee was required to recommend those  modifications for, even if they were logical and desir-  able, he did not consider them legally essential,
(9) Mr. ZHUKOV (Union of Soviet Sociaiist Republics)  observed that, althoigh there might not be an absolute  contradiction, from the legal point of view, between  .the new Rule 78A ahd the other rules quoted, they were  certainly incompatible in fact. The Committee should  draw attention to the problem,
(10) The CHAIRMAN considered it essential to amend  Rule 10A, paragraph 2. Even if the Director-General's  plan could be carried out in practice, it stil} did not  have the force of law.
(11) Mr, BERTRAND (France) wondered whether the  first paragraph of Rule 10A should not be modified as  well, as otherwise an altogether illogical situation  might arise.
(12) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) replied that an amend-  ment of that provision would give rise to practical  difficulties and might completely upset the Secretariat's  work plans.   vig-9
(13) Mr. BERTRAND (France) pointed out that the  text of the first paragraph of Rule 10A provided for  exceptions, as it contained the words "so far as pos-  sible’, The Secretariat would therefore not be  absolutely rigidly bound if the t{ me-limit were pro-  longed.
(14) Mr. VAN PEURSEN (Netherlands) (Rapporteur)  pointed out that, although the revision of Rule 78  legally entailed revision of the second par raph of  Rule 10A, the connexion between Rule 78 and the first  paragraph of Rule 10A was of importance only from  the practical standpoint,
(15) Mr, BERTRAND (France) could not understand  what objection there could be to amending the first  paragraph, since it contained the words "so far as  possible’.
(16) Mr, ZHUKOV (Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-  lics) pointed out that the provision applied not only to  documentation concerning the proposed programme  and budget, but also to all documentation required for  consideration of the various items on the agenda,  There was no point in compelling the Secretariat to  speed up the preparation of all the documents and,  moreover, it was difficult to lay down criteria for  distinguising between documents dealing with the  programme and budget and those dealing with other  questions.
(17) Mr. BERTRAND (France) withdrew his request  for the immediate amendment of paragraph 1.
(18) After a short discussion on the exact length of  the new time-limits, Mr. ZHUKOV (Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics) pointed out that it might be neces-  sary to amend other provisions of the Rules of Procedure.    LEGAL COMMITTEE
(19), Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) proposed that the  Committee's report state: ‘that the time-limit for the  submission of amendments; was linked with othér  provisions of the Rules of Procedure referring to  other time-limits, and that those provisons had been  drawn up on a unified plan; that the time-limit set  for the submission of amendments was directly  related to the date for the communication of the pro-  posed programme and budget, and that it was there-  fore essential to amend the second paragraph of Rule
10A; that the Comrhittee hoped that à general examina-  tion, in which particular attention would be given to -  the time-limits for submitting documentation concern-  ing the proposed programme and budget, would be -  carried out, so as to enable the Conferénca to decide  on the whole problem at its next session; and that the  answer to the Working Party's third question was in  the affirmative, but that the General Conference could,  if it so desired, specify that the amendments would  not come into effect until after the close of the current  session,
(20) The above proposal was accepted.
(21) Mr. SABA (Legal Adviser) mentioned a few ~  corrections to be made to document 9C/ADM/24:  Paragraph-11: Add at the end of the paragraph: "(he  Committee indicated its preference for that method",  Paragraph 12: To read: "If the Administrative  Commission felt that the Constitution should be emen-  ded, it should recommend that the General Conference  instruct the Director. .'’ (the remainder unchanged).
(22) The above changes were approved.  The meeting rose at 5.15 p.m.  NINTH MEETING
3 December 1956, at 9,30 a.m, ,  Chairman: Mr. MATSUI (Japan)
(1) The CHAIRMAN opened the meeting at 9.30 a.m,  (As there was not a quorum, thé meeting was sus-  pended for ten minutes and resumed at 9.40 a,m. )  PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO PARAGRAPH 2 OF RULE 78 OF THE  RULES OF PROCEDURE (continued) (document 9C/PRG-  ADM/WP.1/PROY/1)
(3) The CHAIRMAN opened discussion on à paragraph
12 of document 9C/ PRG-ADM/WP. 1/PROV/1, con  taining the draft report of Joint Working Party No. |
702  of the Programme and Administrative Commissions,
(3) Mr. ARTHUR (United Kingdom) (Chairman and  Rapporteur of the Working Party) thought the question  was similar to those "investigated by the Legal Com-  mittee in its fifth report. The terms of the amend-  ment proposed in paragraph 12 of document 9C/PRG-  ADM/WP. 1/PROV/1 raised the same three questions:  (a) whether thé amendment was legally acceptable;  (b) whether its adoption would involve consequential  changes in other Rules of Procedure; (c) whether it  could be adopted by the Conference at the current  session,