PROGRAMME  consider the French delegate)s attitude in any wey  discourteous, but found the condition stipulated un-  precedented. It was for the institutions concerned to  sign a contract with Unesco, and Unesco would judge  whether the requisite conditions were or were not met;  any conditions laid down distinct from such a contract  would be deeply offensive and moreover contrary to  usual practice,
(14) Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) was  sure the Rapporteur would give a faithful account of  the spirit in which the discussion had taken place.  Apart from that, the discussions would be reported in  the minutes, so that the French delegate's request  would be met in two ways, . .  The Assistant Director-General agreed with the  United States delegate that a proportion of the $120, 000  should be set aside for staff costs; in any gase, the  Secretariat estimates in document 9C/5 Corrigendum1  allowed for that to be done, Furthermore, he thought  that, as proposed, the total of $120, 000 should be  voted for the two Centres, the subsequent distribution  of those funds being left to the Secretariat, which  could always arrange for sums to be transferred from  one Centre to another,
(15) Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) expressed his anxiety  that all sums included in the budget should bé available  for spending during the financial period in question.  If, for instance, anything happened to delay the esta-  blishment of either the Brazilian Centre or the Chilean  COMMISSION     IV-21  Centre, he would wish the Director-General to be  able to use the funds earmarked for those projects for  other items, within the Participation programme, He  would therefore suggest that some provision such as  ",.. funds up to the level of $120,000" be made in the  budgetary proposals for those projects.
(76) Mr, BERTRAND (France) said that, after hearing  the technical explanations given by the Assistant.  Director-General, and the speech of the Australian  delegate, he was prepared to endorse the latter's  proposal, He repeated that his remarks had been in-  tended solely in the interests of Unesco and of the two  proposed Centres, and he thanked Mr, Carneiro for  having taken them in the spirit in which they were  intended.
(77) Mr, MARQUIS (United States of America) agreed  that the Secretariat should word the budgetary pro-  posals for the two projects on the lines suggested by  the Assistant Direttor-General,
(78) Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General)  said that the Australia: delegate's suggestion was in  accordance with current budgetary practice,  The meeting rose at 9.50 p.m.  TWENTY - FIRST MEETING
27 November 1956, at 9.55 a.m.  Chairman: Mr. BARRIOS DUARTE (Nicaragua)  later: Mrs. MYRDAL (Sweden)  {l) The CHAIRMAN called on Mr. Chase, of the  Bureau of Programme and Budget to describe the  budgetary position in the light of the decisions already  taken by the Commission.  {2) Mr. CHASE (Bureau of Programme ‘and Budget)  informed the Commission that the recommendations it  had adopted so far had the following budgetary impli-  cations: “an increase of $166, 000 for 1957-1058 for  Social Sciences as compared with the figures given  in the Proposed Programme and Budget (document
9C/8 and Corrigendum 1) and an increase of $27, 500  for Cultural Activities. The total increase over the  Director-General's proposals so far was therefore  $193,500 which represented almost 20 per cent of the  increase of $1,000,000 voted by the plenary Conference.  (Mrs, Myrdal (Sweden) took the Chair).
(3) The CHAIRMAN said that the Tunisian delegate    had asked to take part in the discussions of Working  Party No. 6, which was meeting that morning.  Furthermore it had been suggested that the delegate  of New Zealand on the Working Party be replaced by  the Australian delegate.  Agreed,  ITEM 9.4 OF THE AGENDA : CULTUML ACTIVITIES (continued)  (documents 9C/6 and Addenda and Corrigenda)
4.7 Culture and International Understanding (continued)  (paragraphs 218 to 236 and document 9C/DR/72)
(4) The CHAIRMAN invited the Commission to resume  its consideration of project 4,731 - Translation of  representative works.
(5) Mr. KEMENOV (Union of Soviet Socialist   IV-21  Republiés) stressed the importance of the project où  translation of representative works of world literature  as a contribution to international understanding and the  exchange of cultural values, He drew the Commis-  sionts attention to the recently formed International  Federation of Translators, which was doing very use-  ful work, Unesco was, at the moment, making an  annual contribution of $2, (00 towards the cost of that  organization's news bulletin, which was not enough.  A provision should be added to resolution 4.73 stating  that the General Conference authorized the Director-  _ General to give all possible support to the International  Federation of Translators.
(6) Mr, KIRPAL (Acting Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) wished, in reply to a general point  with regard to translations raised by the delegate of  the Federal Republic of Germany at à previous meeting,  to outline the Organization's position in that ‘respect.  The problem of translations had aroused much in-  terest, as thé discussion oi that section of the budget  and in the Executive Board showed, As Unesco's  role was to encourage and facilitate the translation of  representative works in order to further mutualunder-  standing between countries, the Organization neces-  sarily tried to put on to the market works which com-  mercial publishers would hesitate to translate, That  was to a great extent explanatory of the low sales in  many cases, .  He recalled Unesco's se shievements in publishing  works translated from Arabic, Persian and Italian,  as well as from Spanish (with regard to Latin American  works); the Organization was now concerning itself  to an increasing extent with translations from Asian  literatures. Works were selected on the basis of a  most careful consideration, following proposals from  the National Commissions and an opinion from the  Committee of Experts of the International Council for  Philosophy and Humanistic Studies, the final respon-  sibility for the choice resting with the Director-  General, At the mornent, the collaboration of the  Organization :* American States, with which Unesco  had in the past co-operated in that field, was unfor-  tunately in doubt, as that body's translation budget had  tentatively been eliminated.  Information would be available to delegations if they  wished a detailed breakdown of the translation pro-  gramrpe, The main feature of that programme was  that translations included works translated into five  languiiges - Arabic, English, ‘French, Persian and  Spanish - selected from 25 different literatures.  Ninety- -two works had either been translated or were  in thé process of being translated, and 36 works had  beer, published,  Iri respect of the financing of the project, he ex-  plained that Unesco's budget covered the fees of tran-  slftors and revisers, ‘as well as the purchase of a  certain number of copies which Unasco distributed  to Member States, During the pertod 1948-1956,  Yinesco's contribution had been somewhat less than
495, 000 whereas Member States had contributed  approximately $65, 000,  Although the project was one of the utmost impor-  tance, it would be extremely difficult to accelerate the  work, which was of necessity a slow process and for .  which few qualified translators were available, The  fact that sales had so far been low was partly due to
420     PROGRAMME COMMISSION  the Jimited appeal of some works which had been pub-.  lished,” and which were of interest mainly to specialists,  However, if the major projéct developed, works trans-  lated under the auspices of Unesco could be used by  schools and the general public, thus making for much  larger sales, ‘ Provision was made for meetings with  "popular" publishers with a view to encouraging com-  mercial sales,  In reply to the point made by the delegate of the Soviet  Union, he said that Unesco was familiar with the ugeful  work being done by the International Federation of  Translators and had given it assistance to the extent’  of $2,000 a year for the publication of "Babel", The  recent meeting of that body had received some assis-  tance from Unesco also. He assured the delegate of  the Soviet Union that his remarks would be borne in  mind by the Secretariat when drafting the future  programme.
(7) Mr. VIANU (Rumania) proposed that the list of  representative works to be translated should include  works from Central and South East European countries,  which reached the general reading public of the world  rarely and haphazardly, owing to being written in -  little-known languages. He proposed that, in collabo-  ration with the Secretariat, a list of Rumanian classics  be drawn up, which he would ask to have translated and  published. ,
(8) Mr, SOMMERFELT (Norway) wished to know  whether the Secretariat had envisaged the possibility  of translating Scandinavian literature into Asian lan-  guages,
(8) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) reminded the meeting  that it was his delegation which had originated the  translations project, as far back as 1847, He hoped  that the Secretariat would prepare a plan for cafrying  out the translations programme for the guidance of the  various national and regional committees concerned,  so as to make the project as broadly international as  possible,  He also thought that national or regional agreements  should contain clear provisions regarding Member  States! contributions to the translations project, It  might be laid down as a general principle that Unesco  would bear one-third of the cost of translations, the  other two-thirds being met by the countries concerned.
(10) Mr. NANNETTI (Organization ‘of ‘American States)  said that his Organization was also collaborating in  translation work, giving financtal and, above ail,  technical ald through the Literature Section “of the  Hispano- -American Union; he added that the Secretary  of his Organization had asked for a list of the works  being translated by Unesco, so that the two programmes  could be co-ordinated. In conclusion, he sald the  Organization of American States would continue to  assist in such work, which it considered very important.
(11) Mr. EKANAY AKA (Ceylon) said that his country  was particularly interested in the project under con- ;  sideration. At a time when Asian countries were …  commemorating 2, 500 years of Buddhism, it would  be most desirable for an outstanding work on Buddhism  to be transiated. He recalled that such a proposalhad  already been discussed by Unesco and had received the   PROGRAMME COMMISSION  roval of the International Council for Philosopuy  - snd Humanistic Studies, He hoped that those arrange-  ments would soon be finalized.
(13) Mrs, MEHTA (India) said that her Government  had already initiated a scheme for translation, but  found itself faced with a considerable problem in find-  ing sufficiently highly-qualified translators, particu-  larly where the translation of classical epics was  concerned; that difficulty was further aggravated by  the fact that many such epics had long interpolations,  - and the critical editions of some of them being pre-  ed would not be ready for a few years. It was  essential that translators should be thoroughly familiar  with the social background of the work they were  translating,  {13) Mr. AWAD MOHAMMED (Egypt) had learnt with  satisfaction that six Arabic works had been translated,  alihough that would appear to be little, as the pro-  gramme had been functioning for nine years. It was  regrettable that he, as a member of the Executive  Board as well as an expert on Arabic translation, had  not been given an opportunity of seeing those texts  before their publication; indeed, he had not as yet  received any copies.
(14) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) promised Mr. Awad  that he would arrange for him to be sent the works  which had already been transtated through the Com-  mission at Beirut.
(15) Mr, KIRPAL (Acting Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) replied to the points raised in  the discussion,  The question of broadening the translation pro-  gramme, to which the Rumanian delegate had re-  ferred, had arisen on several occasions in the past.  While it was clearly desirable to have additional works  translated into languages of wider communication,  there were problems both of financing and of staff  involved, At the moment the Secretariat had only a  very small unit to deal with a growing programme.  The translation of Scandinavian works into Asian lan-  guages had not yet been envisaged,  He informed the Egyptian delegate that all transla-  tions were invariably sent to the. National Commissions;  however, he would in future send them to the Egyptian  delegate directly if he so desired.  He assured the delegate of Ceylon that the transla-  tion of a Buddhist work would be embarked upon  shortly,  He commended the suggestion made by the delegate  of Lebanon in respect of regularizing the contributions  of Member States. That would be a matter for the  . Commission itself to decide,  He agreed with the Indian delegate that there were  great difficulties involved in finding satisfactory  translators. Unesco made considerable efforts to-  wards that end.
(18) The CHAIRMAN then put to the vote resolution
(17) Resolution 4.73 was adopted unanimously.   (18) Mgr MAROUN (Lébanon) proposed that the
1V-21  Commission draft a resolution defining the basis for  Member States! contributions to the project for the  translation of representative works. .
(18) The CHAIRMAN was under the impression that  that point'would be covered in the general terms of the  resolution just approved,
(20) Mr; KIRPAL (Acting Director, Department of  Cultural Activities) expressed the view tliat, while it  would not be necessary to alter the resolution, such a  general recommendation addressed to the members of  the Executive Board would be most useful,
(21) Mr. JORDANA DE POZAS (Spair) inquired  whether, both for translation work and for the estab-  Msahment of centres, Unesco intended to limit its con-  tribution to one-third of the total cost. He thought  other considerations should also be taken into account,  since economic conditions varied from one country \o  another and there were cases in which a country's  economic situation bore no relation to the value of the  literature it had produced, .  The French delegation had asked that Unescots con-  tribution to the cost of setting up any centre should not  exceed one-third of the total, although, in fact, that  proportion had been exceeded in the case of certain  other centres. It was natural that efforts should be  made to induce States to make: the largest possible  contribution, but allowance should be made for individual  circumstances, so that a just and reasonable solution  might be reached in each case.
(22) Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) said  that the General Conferenée might ask the Executive  Board to consider the matter, In that case, the  Secretariat would submit proposals to the Board,
(23) Mr. AWAD MOHAMMED (Egypt) had no objection  to that proposal. It would, however, appear superfluous,  as it was the Executive Board's duty to study the entire  programmie.
(24) The CHAIRMAN suggested that, in view of the  proposal made, the Commission should recommend  the Executive Board to study the question raised by  the delegate of Lebanon.  Agreed.
(25) The CHAIRMAN then drew the Commission's  attention to a draft resolution submitted by the Indian  delegation on assistance to Member States in the field  of cultural activities (document 9C/DR/72).
(26) Mrs. WADIA (India) said that her delegation's  draft resolution constituted a fervent appeal to Member  States to meet what it considered to be vital needs  which Unescé should recognize if the Organization's  aims were to be fulfilled.  "Turning to the budgetary aspect of the draft resolu-  tion, she einphasizéd the consideration that certain  aspects of Unesco's activities - in the fields of educa-  tion or social sciences, for instance - ‘could be met by  funds available under the United Nations Expanded  Programme of Technical Assistance, to the extent  of $8, 923,000 for 1955-1956 and an estimated amount   Iv-21  of $12,784, 000 for: (1907-1958 (us shown in document
9C/5; Arinex I parags aphis pt 00-02). Thus, the equi-  valént of 75 per cent ' Unesco's ‘total operational  budget was available fof specific programmes which  could bé met by. Technital' Assistance funds, She  would therefore urge thay priority should be given,  when allotting Unesco fuñds, to those parts of the pro-  gramme which did not have the benefit of assistance  under the Technical ‘Assistance programme, All were  doubtless aware that many countries were encountering  great financial difficulties in meeting their needs in  the sphere of cultural activities, and that situation was  particularly evident in Asia.
(27) Mr, TROMAS (Assistant Director-General) said  that the Indian proposal, interesting though it was,  would involve a véry complicated redistribution of  funds between the various ‘Departments, He pointed  out that the Director-General, in the Corrigenda to  the budget, had adopted a policy similar to that re--  commended by tke representative of India, increasing  the approp' iations for cultural activities and exchanges  of persons under the Participation programme, The  increase had been smaller in the case of the education  and natural sciences sections of the programme, which  benefited from the Expanded Programme of Technical  Assistance.
(28) Miss ALEGRIA (Mexico) supported the Indian -  proposal concerning aid to Membér States for cultural  activities, Since the arguments put forward by the  Indian delegution applied also fo the situation !n Latin  America, Miss Alegria asked that Latin Americamight  also be eligible for the proposed aid, She suggested  that, in paragraph 1 of the Indian draft resolution, the  words "Latin America" should be inserted after Asia"!  or that the words "especially of Asia" in that para-  graph should be deleted, so as to make the proposed  aid available to other countries whichneeded it as well,  The delegate of México also requested that provision  might be made in the budget estimates for 1957-1958  for the continuation of research on manuscripts relat-  ing to the history of Latin America,
(29) Mr. NEQNIQ (Ethiopia) welcomed the draft  resolution, which was consistent with the objectives  of Unesco. He associated himself with the remarks  of the Mexican delegate and suggested the inclusion of  the words "and Africa", so that assistance should not  be given only to one area when others were also in a  similar position.
(80) The CHAIRMAN suggested that, in view of the  romarks made, ‘the Indian delegate might wish to  consider withdrawing from her draft resolution the  words "especially of Asia",
(31) Mr, HAGUIWARA (Japan) asked whether  paragraph 5 of thé Indian draft resolution was inten-  ded to authorize the Director-General to make trans-  fers within the budget for 1957- 1958, or whether it  implied an increase in the appropriations for cultural  activities, which would involve renonsideration of the  funds the Programme Commission had already allo-  cated for other purposes.  {32) Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General)
422     PROGRAMME COMMISBION  ‘  explained, in reply toa question from the Swiss r  resentative, that cultural activities had never’ ‘rece  assistance under, the Expended Programme of Technic  Assistance which, ‘béing designed for economic develo  ment, applied only to those of Unescô's activities com’  under the Education, Natural Sciences, Social Bclence  and Exchange of Persons De tments,  With regard to the Indian draft resolution, - Mr, -  Thomas stated thei it would bé risky to amend thé  Proposed Programme and Budget at the stage reached,  The Director-General could be asked, when preparing  the programme for 1950- ~1960, to take fuil account ol  Technical Assistance funds in respect of certain cultur  activities. The Director-General could also be asked,  when implementing the 1957-1958 programme, to give  special consideration to requests for aid in fields not  covered by Technical Assistance, ‘including cultural  activities.
(33) Mr. RICHARDS (Liberia) warmly supporied the  draft resolution. He also would like to see mention  of Africa made in it.
(34) Mr. HOPE (United States of America) was in  favour of the suggestion made by the Chair that the  reference to Asia be deleted; the resolution would  thus more closely express the fundamental aims of  Unesco. His delegation strongly supported the draft  resolution, as well as the views expressed by the  delegate of India. _  He agreed that the adoption of paragraph 5 of the draft  resolution às it stood might place the Director-General  in a difficult position, He would recommend that the  proposal be considered in conjunction with Major Pro-  ject 4A and that the Director-General be requested to  study the programme carefully with a view to the  possibility of diverting projects to the Technical  Assistance programme, thus making available Unesco  funds for the purposes listed by the delegate of India.  {35) Mrs. WADIA (India) was grateful for the statement  made by the Director-General's representative. When  drafting thé resolution, her delegation had hoped that it  ‘might be possible for certain adjustments to be made in  respect of 1957-1958 without reducing funds allocated  for other purposes. The Indian delegation would make  specific proposals in respect of 1959-1960,  She would be willing to delete the words "especially  of Asia".
(36) Mr. NIELSEN (Denmark) was in favour of the  general principle upon which the draft resolution was  based, namely, that the programmé should be ex-  amined as thoroughly as possible with à view to en-  suring that, wherever feasible, use should be made  of Technical Assistance funds, That principle should  be applied in respect of all Unesco's activities.
(37) Mr. HOPE (United States of America) suggested  a possible rewording of paragraph 5 of the draft  resolution as follows: ‘to give priority in administra-  tive or budgetary decisions to those programme areas  not covered by the United Nations Technical Assistance  Programme, "
(38) Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) though  agreement had been reached on the general purpôse ol   PROGRAMME COMMISSION IV-21  draft resolution 9C/DR/72, but he was afraid that  the words "give priority" might be ambiguous, It  was the Conference which was responsible for distri-  buting resources among the various programme ac-  tivities, However, the Director-General could, as  already proposed, pay special attention, when exam-  ining Member States’ requests for aid, to those con-  corning activities not benefiting from Technical  Assistence,
(39) The CHAIRMAN suggested the deletion of the  first part of paragraph 5 so that the paragraph would  read; "to strengthen the programme .. "etc.
(40) Mr, HAGUIWARA (Japan) feared that the list  contained in paragraphs 1 and & of the draft resolu-  tion might appear to be restrictive; he suggested  that the words "in the activities of Member States"  in the third and fourth lines of the English text of  paragraph 5 be'replèced by the words "in such activi-  ties of Member States as ... "
(41) Mr. HOPE (United States of America) did not  wish to press the point but would be sorry to see all  reference to the Technical Assistance programme  deleted, The draft resolution implied a fundamental  change of emphasis in the Organization's programme  and called for serious consideration by the Director-  General end the Executive Board of a sort which the  Commission itself, with the limited time at its dis-  posal, would be unable to give,
(42) Mr, BURNS (New Zealand) proposed that para-  graph 5 be amended to read as follows: "to strengthen  the programme of participation in the activities of  Member States in the fields of libraries, museums,  arts and crafts, Community Cultural Centres, preser-  vation of cultural property and provision of reading  material for new literates, and, in preparing the pro-  gramme for 1959-1960, to divert to this purpose  adequate funds from programme areas covered  by the United Nations Programme of Technical  Assistance."
(43) Mrs, WADIA (India) warmly welcomed the New  Zealand delegate!s proposal. In reply to the point  made by the United States delegate, she said it would  be important, in that connexion, to retain paragraph 6  of the draft resolution,
(44) Mr. ANAS (Afghanistan) expressed the opinion  that the draft resolution submitted by the Indian dele-  gation related to activities which constituted the aim  of the Organizstion's programme as a whole,
(45) Mr, THOMAS (Assistant Director- -General) re-  called that, as he had sald before, the principles  underlying the recommendation had already been  applied by the Director-General to some extent when  preparing the programme for 1957-1958. However,  the Director-General saw no objection to the adoption  "of a resolution regarding activities not benefiting from  Technical Assistance funds.
(46) Mr. ZAVALA (Mexico) asked that, in paragraph
5 of the Indian draft resolution, the word "archives"  might be added after "libraries, museums ,...".
(47) Mrs. WADIA (India) was willing to accept that  amendment,
(48) Mr. EKANAYAKA (Ceylon) supported the Indian  draft resolution but would have preferred the original  text, which referred to financial implications in the  budget under consideration,
(49) Mr. AWAD MOHAMMED (Egypt) would be happy  to see cultural activities benefit from funds liberated  by taking full hr fete of the Technical Assistance  programme, and hoped that the Director-General  might be able to meet certain special cases in the bud-  get for 1957-1958.
(50) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) did not object to the  suggestion made by the Mexican delegate but wished  to maintain his amendment, which was aimed at pre-  venting the enumeration from having a imitative effect.
(51) Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) had  misgivings about the Commission's inviting the Director-  General to strengthen. certain activities on his own  authority! “It was up to the Commission itself to allo-  cate larger funds to projects it considered particularly  important, and not to call on the Secretariat to take  funds from certain activities in order to pay for others,  That was tantamount to asking the Director-General  to go back ‘on decisions which had been carefully  weighed by the various competent organs of the  General Conference. It would perhaps be  better to draft paragraphs 4 and 5 of document
9C/DR/72 as follows: "Requests the Director-  General, when carrying out the 1857-1958 programme  and preparing the programme for 1959-1960, to pay  special attention to participation in those activities of  Member States which are not eligible for Technical  Assistance, such as work relating to libraries,  archives ...
(52) The CHAIRMAN wondered whether the delegate  of India would be willing to redraft her proposal, taking  into account the remarks made by the Director-  General's representative, the decision on the draft  resolution being postponed until such a redraft was  submitted.
(53) Mrs, WADIA (India) agreed to that procedure.  MAJOR PROJECT 4A, MUTUAL APPRECIATION OF EASTERN AND  WESTERN CULTURAL YALUES (documents 9C/PRG/26 and 9C/DR/97)
(54) Mr. HOPE {United States of America) (Rapporteur  of the Working Party on Major Projects) introduced  the Working Party's report (document 9C/PRG/26).  He called particular attention to the criteria for  major projects, mentioned in paragraphs 4 to 6, which  the Working Party proposed should be adopted, The  Working Party had enjoyed a wide measure of agree-  ment and the recommendation to set up an advisory  committee, contained in the draft resolution in para-  graph 21, had been adopted unanimously. The Working  Party submitted that draft resolution for adoption by  the Commission.
(56) The CHAIRMAN expressed the Commission's   IV-21  appreciation fo the Working Party, its Chairman and  its Rapporteur for the valuable report it had presented,  ‘She drew attention to documents 9C/5 Corrigendum 1  and 9C/5 Corrigendum 4 which were relevant to the  question; the latter document showed an increase of  $315, 000 in respect of Major Project 4A and had  taken into account certain draft resolutions submitted.
(56) Mr, THOMAS (Assistant Director- General) out-  lined the steps the Director-General might take to  implement the recommendations of the Working Party,  So far as concerned the meeting of an international  advisory committee to advise the Director-General on  the major project on mutual appreciation of Eastern  and Western cultural values, an appropriation of  $30, 000 for that purpose, for 1857-1858, had been  proposed in Corrigendum 4 to document 8C/5, p.3  The Director-General would submit draft statutes for  that committee to the Executive Board, at its current  session, so that it could meet early in’ 1957, The  committee would be asked to submit recommendations  to the Director-General who, in May 1857, would  present a revised work plan to the Board,  It was due to an error that document 9C/5 Cor-  rigendum. 1, Chapter 4A, contained no estimates for  implementation of draft resolution 4,91 (A). As re-  quested by the Working Party in its report, the  Director-General was prepared to provide funds for  helping Member States to carry out their activities  under that project. Those funds, which might  amount to about $30, 000, would be obtained by re-  ducing other expenses,  The Working Party had recommended that existing  activities which were subsequently to be transferred  to the major project should be continued without inter  ruption. As to new activities, the Commission had  received some twenty draft resolutions, in addition to  document 8C/6 Corrigendum 4, but had very little  time left to examine them, The best solution would  probably be to refer those draft resolutions to the  Advisory Committee ‘and the Executive Board,  following the procedure outlined earlier.  It was also difficult to make any detailed recom-  mendations on the budget until the Executive Board  had taken a decision. The Commission could,  however, decide on an overall budget, leaving it to  the Executive Board to distribute the funds between  the activities it eventually approved.
(57) ‘The CHAIRMAN believed that the proposals of  the Director-General largely coincided with those of  the Working Party. As the entire project was new,  the Commission was in a more difficult position to  take decisions. She would suggest therefore that,  after a general discussion, the subject be referred to  the proposed advisory committee for thorough  consideration.
(58) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) (Representative of the  Executive Board) said the Executive Board had dis-  cussed the question of mutual appreciation of  Eastern and Western Cultural values at length during  its 44th session. It had examined the substance of  the question but not the organizational and adminis-  trative aspects. In its report (document 9C/5,  Addendum 1, paragraph 37) it had recommended the  General Conference to adopt the major project, and
424  PROGRAMME OONMMISBION  had suggested that it be examined by an advisory com-  mittee, During the Board's discussions, emphasis  had been laid on the undesirability of taking the con-  ventional view of the notions of "East" and "West",  Mgr Maroun pointed out that paragraph 94 of the re-  port contained detailed suggestions,
(58) Mr, ESTABLE (Uruguay) stated that the delega-  tion of his country wished to submit a proposal which  it considered of vital importance; he read it out, It  concerned the establishment of an Honorary Higher  Council of Unesco, to be composed of 25 members  selected from among leading personalities in the |  various branches of learning. Attached to the Council,  regulations for the election of which were contained  in the proposal, would be an advisory executive com-  mittee. The first meeting of the Council, which would  have voting rights at the Unesco General Conference,  would be convened by the Director-General.  One of the reasons why the Uruguayan delegate was  in favour of the establishment of such a Council was  that delegates were frequently obliged to decide on  questions in which they were not versed, which caused  them serious qualms of conscience; another was that  it was important for Unesco to enlist the services of  the world!s best intellects.
(60) Mr. HOPE (United States of America), speaking  as United States delegate, commended the Director-  General's representative on his constructive sugges-  tions and suggested that he be asked to recast the  draft resolution contained in the Working Party's re-  port to include the points he had made, so that it might  serve as a working text and provide a foundation for  the debate.
(61) Mr. HAGUIWARA (Japan) drew the meeting's  attention to draft resolution 9C/DR/ 87, presented by  his delegation, The success of the major project on  mutual appréciation of Eastern and Western cultural  values dépended largely on the part played by the Member  States concerned, which would be invited to make à  financial and technical contribution to the implementa-  It had to be recognized, pt  need more substantial Ah atd "under the provision  made for assistance in the implementation of draft  resolution 4, 91 sub- -paragraph (A).  The need for aid to Member States was menttoned  in the report of the Working Party, document 9C/PRG/2,  but sub-paragraph (A) of the sixth paragraph of draft  resolution 4.81 (document 9C/5 Corrigendum 1), as  it stood, made no provision for assistance to National  Commissions and other similar bodies except for the  co-ordination of activities undertaken as part of the  major project. In the case of Eastern countries,  however, aid was absolutely essential, not only for  purposes of co- -ordination but also for carrying out  certain projects requiring missions of experts, the  award of fellowships, etc, If draft resolution
9C/DR/97 were adopted, it would be possible to give  Member States more substantial financial and tech-  nical aid for the major project, in accordance with  the general conditions governing the grant of aid to  Member States.  Mr. Haguiwara supported the United States   PROGRAMME  representative's proposal that the Director-General  be asked to have resolution 4. 81 redrafted, He  hoped that the new text would take account of his  comments.
(62) Mr, ANAS (Afghanistan) felt that éonsideriny the  limited funds at its disposal, the programme facing the  Organization was a vast one, The East had accom-  plished a great deal in acquainting itself with Western  culture whereas the general public in the West had  only a very slight knowledge of Eastern cultures, The  major project was most important as it could serve  to rectify the often distorted picture of the East given  by films and fiction,  He felt that due tribute should be paid to the valuable  work already done by eminent scholars in different  countries, The results of the studies of some Orien-  talists provided a source on which Unesco should draw  to the utmost; indeed, their work would be useful in  assisting Eastern scholars to know their own countries  better, The matter had been discussed that year at  the Regional Conference of Unesco in Tokyo, where a  decision had been taken to request Unesco to obtain  microfilm copies of Eastern documents existing in  Western museums. In that connexion, he cited the  British Museum and the valuable findings of archaeo-  logical missions in Asia. Unesco should start by pub-  lishing a bibliography of existing works which should  not be overlooked, He called attention to the risk  of duplication in translating documents which already  existed and which could be used, possibly in an adapted  form, for the purposes of the major project.
(63) Mr. HAIGH (United Kingdom) recalled that, at  the beginning of the current session, Sir Kenneth Clark  had made a statement referring to the importance  attached by the United Kingdom delegation to the major  project under discussion, As an instance, he drew  attention to the fact that his delegation had submitted  seven draft resolutions as a sample of its thinking on  the subject. He entirely supported the suggestion,  made by the Working Party and supported by the  Director-General's representative, to the effect that  detailed proposals should be transmitted to the advisory  committee, He hoped that the United Kingdom draft  resolutions would be considered by that body and he  would accordingly refrain from raising them during the  current discussion,
(64) Mr. TUNCEL (Turkey) was glad that the Working  Party had adopted his suggestions regarding the ad-  ministrative structure for the major project (document
8C/PRG/26, paragraph 29), He hoped that the new  specialist in charge of day-to-day activities, to be  appointed in the Department of Cultural Activities,  would be given a higher grading.
(65) Mr. FILLIOZAT (France) emphasized the Interest  his country took in the major project, and recalled that  France had a tradition in Oriental studies dating back  four centuries, While Western peoples knew less  about the East than Eastern peoples did about the West,  the latter, In general, had a very imperfèct know-  ledge of other Eastern peoples! cultures, To improve  the general knowledge of world culture, which was the  aim of the project, children in primary and secondary  schools as well as the public at large should be given
425  COMMISSION     IV-21  at least a summary picture of what it was,
(66) Mr. HAMILTON (British Caribbean Group) con-  sidered it important to view the problem of mutual  understanding between East and West from the human  as well as the scholarly aspect, For example, he  believed that much was achieved by exchanges of cul-  tural missions, Moreover, in order that the general  public of East and West should have opportunities of  learning about each other, it would be desirable to en-  courage facilities for cheap travel and living arrange-  ments in private homes in the country visited. Unesco  should not confine its interest in that field to publications.  He recalled that 45 per cent of the population in the  territories from which he came were of Indian origin  and therefore it was particularly desirable that such  sections of the population should be more familiar  with their cultural heritage,
(67) Mr. REGAMEY (Switzerland) thought that, in  carrying out the major project, special attention should  be paid to interpreting different cultures and making  them understandable to people of other cultural groups,  Appreciation of other cultures often tended to remain  at a superficial level, Although Easterners were fairly  well acquainted with the West, the picture they had of  Western cultures was often limited to those whose  languages théy had learnt. To promote a real under-  standing of Eastern and Western cultural values, the  services of specialists would be required on both  sides, The Working Party's recommendations regard-  ing the establishment of an advisory committee were  too vague, Specialists not only on interngtional under-  standing, but on East-West understanding as well  would be required. There were already a number of  institutions and journals specializing in that field,
(68) Mr. MUDALIAR (India) recalled that Major Pro-  ject 4 A was the result of the Unesco Regional Con-  ference held in Tokyo. Its title did not fully describe  the project; he was most anxious that it should be  interpreted as meaning a sympéthetic understanding of  cultures in different countries, Doubtless much  valuable work Had been done by eminent Oriental  scholars, but it was importent that the project should  affect not only scholars and the level of the ordinary,  intelligent and educated public, but also the’ great  masses in the various countries, and that such a sym-  pathetic understanding should be acquired from an  early age. Many of the books interpreting Eastern  culture to the West had not achieved that aim to the  extent that they might have doné. There was abetter  understanding of Western culture in the East, as people  from the East had greater opportunities of learning  about the West from human contacts and visits as well  as from books, There was also room for progress  in understanding between ‘ Eastern countries themselves.  One of his Government's intentions in extending its  invitation to Unesco to hold the ninth session of its  General Conference in India had been precisely to pro-  vide the means for many people to see something of  Indian cultural values. At the moment, there was  also an opportunity for different religions to make  contact with each other and to seek to understand their  different ideals.  The main task was not merely to produce literature  but to place those differing cultural values {a a   tv-23 PROGRAMME  sympathetic’ manner before young people, so that  they could grow up in the fundamental understanding  that there weré no insuperable obstacles between  them,’ That was indeed the best wey to fulfil the aims  of Unesco,
(69) “The CHAIRMAN understood that the representa-  tive of the Difector-General would redraft the Work-  ing Party's resolution for consideration at another  meeting of the Commission,
(70) ‘Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) was  willing to prepare a new draft, but wanted further in-  formation about the Commission's wishes. Had the  Commission endorsed the proposal of the Japanese  delegate, which differed considerably from the    COMMISSION  existing wording? Mr, Thomas also asked the  United States delegate to clarify what he meant,
(71) Mr, HOPE (United States of America) would.  welcome a text combining the Working Party's reso-  lution and the Director-Genéral's representative's -  suggestions merely as a basis to facilitate discussion,
(72) The CHAIRMAN said that the Japanese delégate's  proposal would be considered in the nature of an -  amendment and would accordingly be dealt with atthe  appropriate stage.  x  The meeting rose at 1.10 p,m.  TWENTY - SECOND MEETING
27 November 1956, at 3 p,m.  Chairman: Mrs. MYRDAL (Sweden)  ITEM 0.1 OF TRE AGENDA : EDUCATION (documents 9C/5 and  Addenda and Corrigenda)
(1) At thé invitation of the CHAIRMAN, Mr. GUITON  (Acting Director, Department of Education) commented  on thé main features of his Department's programme,  which were briefly ‘destribed in paragraphs (1a) to
(8b) of document 8C/5,' Corrigendum, 1, Part IL,  Chapter. 1." The ‘central theme of the programme was  education for international understanding, as was in-  dicated clearly by draft resolutions 1.81, 1.32, 1.51  and 1.61. .  The programme: included ‘four main’ planned ‘aicti-  vities in the' priority. areas defined by the General  Conférence at its previous session: thé major project  on’teacher training in Latin America; the maintenance  of thé two’ ve Fundamental Education Centres  (CREFAL ASFEC);. participation’ in the "East-  West" major project’: ‘education of Arab refugees in  Paléstine, Emergency, educational assistarice would  cost nearly half à million dollars if the ‘proposals  contéined in document 9C/5; Corrigendum 3, ‘concern-  ing Korea weré adopted, Finälly, appropriations to  a total of $388, 000 were provided for participation in  Member States! actiyit tes in various branches of  education.  Mr. Guiton wen’ di 10, say that there were three  major problems on which the Secretariat would be  glad to have the views ‘ot thé General Conference.  The first ‘concerned éducation for ‘international  understanding and co-operation. The new Proposed  Programme, - like that adapted at Montevideo, was  based on the principle that all activities undertsken  by Unesco to promote the extension or improvement  of school or out-of-school education, whether general    or specific, and whether applying to one nation or .  region only or to all Member States, ‘should be directed  towards thé development of intéinationa] understanding.  It was on the strength of that principle ‘that the Secre-  tariat had decided not to include in the Proposed Pro-  gramme any spécial section under thé heading of  "education for international understanding and co-  operation". ‘ In the previous programmie, that "Label"  had been applied only to a limited number of projects  dealing with schodi education, -Beveral times in the  course of the past ten years, educationists’ attending  Unesco meetings had objected to that label as being  restrictive, ‘and the Comimittee of Expérts convened  in 1954 to study the principles of éducation for ‘inter-  national understanding had recommended that tbe  extended to cover the whole of the Education pro-  gramme. The disappearance of that restrictive  label" had coincided with the intensification of °  Unesco's activities in that field, - Senttéred etivitios  affecting the teaching of certain specific sibjséts had  thus given way to a concerted ‘plan | under which the  whole of the school’ curriculum in éâch country was to  be directed towards int irnational understanding. In  that connexion, Mr, Guiton drew ‘attention to the ‘  Education chapter in document. 9C/5, paragraphs
88, 106-110, 120-126, After starting with sporadic  work on the improvement of schooi textbooks by bi-.  lateral ‘consultations, mainly affecting Europe, Unesco  had, over the past three’ years, béen carrying out’ s  programme, which took in the majority of Member.  States and constituted a prelude’ to the "East-West"  major project, on the treatment of Asta in Western  textbooks, and vice versa. After general discussions  held at eight international meetings of educationists,  Unesco had embarked on practical activities and had