27 November 1956, at 9.30 a. m,  Chairman: Mr, SPILHAUS (United States of America)  {1) On the préposal of Mr, MARTINEZ COBO,  supported by Mr, PARRA-PEREZ, the Committee  decided to send a telegram to the Vice-President of  India, Dr, Radhakrishnan, expressing the Commit-  tee's sympathy on the loss of his wife,  ESTABLISHMENT OF JOINT WORKING PARTIES OF THE  PROGRAMME AND ADMINETRATIVE COMMISSIONS
(2) The CHAIRMAN invited the Committee's  comments on the creation of joint working parties of  the Administrative and Programme Commissions,
(3) Mrs, MYRDAL récalléd that it had been decided  to set up joint working partiés rather than to have  " joint sessions of the two Commissions,  With regard to the composition of the working  party which was to examine the procedures for the  preparation and consideration of thé programme for
1959-1960; she proposed for thé Committee's con-  sideration the following Member States: Brazil,  Chile, Czechoslovakia: Denmark, El Salvador,  France, India; Italy, Japan, Lebanon, New Zealand,  Union of Soviet Soclalist Repübliés, United Kingdom,  United States of America,” Viet-Nam, ’  Working Party No. .7 would probably be convened  for Thursday, 29 November, in the afternoon, under  her chairmanship. However, in view of her duties  as Chairman of the Programme Commission, it  would be desirable that the Working Party elect a  Vice-Chairinan who would preside in her absence.
(4) Mr, DAVIES said that Working Patty No, 8  would deal with the financing of thé coupon scheme,  the "Courier" and the Documents and Publications  Service. He proposed the following composition for  that Working Party; Argentina, Byelorussian Soviet  Socialist Republic, Cambodia, Canada, Cuba,  France, Federal Republic of Germany, India, Mexico,  Saudi Arabia, Syria, Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics, United Kingdom, United States of  America. .  As regarded the meetings of the working parties,  he thought that simultaneous meetings would be  unfortunate and asked whether the Secretariat had  worked out a time-table.
(5) Mr. MONTAGNIER (Secretary) indicated that,  after Thursday 20 November, the Chairman of the  Administrative Commission would be available and  -that the Chairman of the Programme Commission  could be represented by a Vice-Chairman in either  the Programme Commission or the working party.
(8) Mr, ADISESHIAH (Assistant Director-General)  proposed that the working parties begin their work
304  - LE  on Wednesday afternoon (28 November) under the ..  chairmanship of Mr. Gardner Davies, who was likely  to have been liberated from the Administrative  Commission.
(7) It was so agreed,.
(8) At the request of Mr, DAVIES, Mr, MUDALIAR  (Chairman of the Executive Board) agreed that a . -  representative of the Executive Board would assist .  in the meetings of the working parties, -
(9) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL drew the Committee's  attention to document 8C/20 regarding the time-.  table of the work of- the General Conference. ‘The  Executive Board had been requested to consider the  document at its meeting on the morning of Wednesday,
(10) Mr, DAVIES stated that the working parties -  would presumably have to report to a joint meeting -  of the Administrative and Programme Commissions,  and the CHAIRMAN indicated that such a report  would have in fact to be submitted to a joint meeting  of the two Commissions,
(11) Mr. KEMENOV proposed that Poland and Iran  be added to the membership of Working Party No.
(12) The Committee approved the composition of  Working Parties Nos, 7 and 8, as proposed by the  Chairman of the Programme and Administrative  Commissions and amended by Mr, Kemenov.  PROGRESS OF WORK
(13) The CHAIRMAN invited Mrs, Myrdal and Mr,  Davies to inform the Committee of the progress of  the work of their respective Commissions.
(14) Mrs. MYRDAL stated that the'Programmé  Commission had a heavy load of work to perform. A  number of meetings were devoted to each chapter  relating to the work of the Departments and if the  time allowed proved inadequate the discussion con-  tinued during night meetings,  to local and professional salaries, the Report of  the Legal Committee ori the Financial Regulations,  and the resolution on the Working Capital Fund. He  hoped that appropriate resolutions would be adopted  by the Commission at meetings which would take one  and a half days more,   GENERAL
(16) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL stated that‘it would  be priate for the General Comimittes to ‘  recommend that the financial implications of the  inter-agency decisions on salavies and allowances be  jointly considered by the Administrative and -  Programme Commissions,  (i) The Committee decided that the financial implica-  tions of the proposals relating to salaries and  allowances be examined first by the Administrative  Commission and then by a joint mootine of the two  Commissions.  - DRAFT RESOLUTION PRESENTED BY AUSTRALIA  (document 9C/DR/122) .
(18) The. CHAIRMAN fnvited the ‘Cémmittes's  comments on document 9C/DR/122, regarding the  draft resolution submitted by the delegation of  Australia on the appointment or reappointment ofa  Director -Gene ral,
(18) Me. DAVIES stated that the Australian delega-  tion maintained their point of view, and that they  would not agree to withdrawing the resolution  contained in the document before the Committee.
(20) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL informed the Commit-  tee that, in the circumstances, he intended to make a  statement at the plenary meeting and to present to  the General Conference the following resolution:  The General ‘Conference  Noting the statement of the Director-General that  be intends to resign his post effective at the end of  the tenth session of the General Conference,  Decides to place the following item on the agenda  of the tenth session: Appointment of a Director-  General,
(31) The Committee decided to refer to the forth-  coming plenary meeting the draft resolution contained  "EIGHTH  COMMITTEE     tm-s  in document 9C/DR/122, presented by the delegation  of Australia,  GENERAL CONFERENCE
(22) The DIRECTOR-GENERAL, referred to Tesoly-  tion I, 2, 2 adopted by the General Conference at its  eighth session. regärding. the Organization ‘and methods  ot work of thé General to, rence, and suggested .  that delegations be asked make remarks and offer  suggestions while the General Conference was still  in session, No action would be taken for thé moment  but the material which delegations might send in  would be used for formulating proposals to the  Executive Board on that subject,
(23) Mr. MATSUI stated that the Japanese delegation  had prepared and submitted a draft resolution on that  subject along the lines suggested by the Director-  General, :
(24) Mr, KABIR thought that the views of delegations  on that subject should be sought at every session  of the Conference; the date for submission of  suggestions should be extended beyond the end of  the Conference.
(25) On the proposal of the Directéi-General, ‘the  Cornmitiee decided to recommend that a circular  and a questionnaire be addressed to all delegations,  before the end of the session, regarding the  organization and methods of work of the General  Conference, In preparing the organizational plan  for the tenth session of the General Conference, the °  Executive Board and the Director-General would  take into consideration the remarks and suggestions  made by delegations, together with any resolutions  that the General Conference might adopt on that  subject during the current session,  The meeting rose at 10 a.m.  MEETING
29 November 1956, at 9.30 a.m,  Chairman: Mr. LAPIE (France)  » soc SomeTTEE FoR BUDGET ADTURTUENTS
(1) The DIRECTOR:GENERAL said he did not ‘hink ©  it would bé necessary to hold the joint meeting éf the  Programiné and Administrative Commissions .:- …-  scheduled by the General Coinmittée at its previous  iting, Document 9C/9 had suggested the éstablish-  ment of an Ad Hôc Comimitteé for Budget Adjustments;  lu his view, that Cominittee should be formed as soon  d possible. The Committee was supposed to consist  of nine members, six of whom were already nominated
305  >  (Châtrénar and Rapporteur of (ine Programs Cômiris-  sion, Chairman and Rapporteur of the Administrative  Commission; and the Chairman of the Programme ’  and Finance Commissions of the Exécitivé Board):  There were thus three seats still to be filled and in  that connéxiok it should be borne in mind {hat the six  countries already on thé committee were all in the  group opposed to the increase of the. budget. ” "He  would accordingly suggest that thé number ‘of members  be increased from 9 to 17 to allow of better repres-  entation of the different athools of thought in the