NOMINATIONS COMMITTER VII-3  Dr, Abdul Majid, Afghanistan;  Dr, Gardner Davies, Australia;  Mr, Julian Joseph Kuypers, Belgium;  Professor Tha Hla, Union of Burma;  Mr. Rodolfo Baron Castro, El Salvador;  Dr. Maria Schlueter-Hermkes, Federal Republic  of Germany;  Mr. Georges Averoffi Greece;  Dr. Zakir Husain, India;  Dr, Abdul Kadhim, Iraq;  Mr. Akira Matsui, Japan;  Mr. Ho Jik Kim, Korea;  Dr, Kesher Bahadur Khatri Chhetri, Nepal;  Dr, Momtazuddin Ahmed, Pakistan;  Dr. Concepcion Aguila, Philippines;  Mr. Stefan Wierblowski, Poland;  Mr. Juan Estelrich y Artigues, Spain;  Mr. Bhunthin Attagara, Thailand;  Professor Bedrettin Tuncel, Turkey;  Mr. Vladimir Kemenov, Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics;    Dr. Athelstan Spilhaus, United States of America;  Dr, C. Parra-Perez, Venezuela; ,  Professor Nguyen-Quang-Trinh, Viet- ~Nam.
(33) Mr, SABA (Legal Adviser) observed that, if the  . procedure suggested were adopted, it would not be  possible for the Nominations Committee to submit  to the Conference the general observations referred  to in paragraph 3 of Rule 30 of the Rules of Procedure,  In view of the way in which the time-table of meetings  had been arranged, he did not think, however, that the  General Conference could expect to receive a full-  scale report, including such observations, from the  Nominations Committee.
(34) The CHAIRMAN proposed adjourning the  meeting so that the members could attend the  General Conference and report on the Committee's  proceedings. Agreed.  The meeting rose at 5 p.m,  THIRD MEETING
3 December 1956, at 3 p.m.  Chairman: Mr. BROCKINGTON (Canada)  NOMINATIONS FOR MEMBERSHIP OF THE LEGAL COMMITTEE,  COMMITTEE ON REPORTS AND HEADQUARTERS COMMITTEE  (document 9C/NOM/ 32)
(1) Mr. BROCKINGTON (Canada) (Vice-Chairman)  conveyed the apologies of the Chairman for his  absence from the meeting due to official business,  and said that he was honoured to take his place.  The meeting had to make recommendations to the  General Conference on the membership of the Legal  Committee, the new Committee on Reports which  was to replace the Committee on Reports of Member  States, and the Headquarters Committee, and had  before it a document giving information about the  past and present composition of those Committees.  The Chairman, after consultations with delegations  and the Secretariat, had, with the help of the  Secretariat, prepared suggestions which took into  account the need for an equitable representation of  the geographical regions of the world. He proposed  reading the three lipts one after the other to enable  delegates to judge for themselves the overall  situation with regard to equitable geographical  distribution.  The Chairman's suggestion for the membership of  the Legal Committee was: Afghanistan, Burma,  Chile, Cuba, Egypt, France, Federal Republic of  Germany, India, Mexico, Poland, Tunisia, Union of  Soviet Socialist Republics, United Kingdom, United  States of America and Viet-Nam. Seats would be
669  distributed amongst the various regions of the world  as follows: Africa and the Middle East - 3; the  Americas - 4; Asia - 3; Europe - 5.  The Committee on Reports would have its member-  ship increased from fiftéen to nineteen by a recent  decision of the current session of the General Con-  ference, and it would have new terms of reference  and greatér responsibility. The suggestion for its  composition was; Australia, Colombia; France,  Haiti, India, Isrüel, Italy, Japan, Laos; Lebanon,  Liberia, Philippines; Peru; Rümania, Turkey, Union  of Soviet Socialist Republics, Unitéd Kingdom, United  States of America and Uruguay. Its géographical  distribution would be: Africa and the Middle East - 3;  the Americas - 5; Asia - 5; and Europe -.6.  The membership of the Headquarters Committee  had remained the same .since 1953. The Admini-  strative Commission had recommended that its  membership be increased to nineteen and that, for  the sake of continuity, at least one-third of the  existing members be retained, . The Chairman of the  Headquarters Committee had been of the opinion that  it would be wise to retain ali fourteen members and,  in view uf that opinion, the Chairman had made  suggestions for only five new members; Argentina,  Japan, Lebanon,’ Morocco, and the Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics, If that suggestion were adopted,  the geographical distribution would be: Africa and  the Middle East - 2; the Americas - 5; Asia - 5;  and Europe - 7. The Administrative Commission had   vii-3 NOMINATIONS  also drawn attention to the fact that the languages used  by that Committee were English and French, without  prejudice, of course, to the use of the other working  languages of Unesco.  Legal Committee
(2) Mr. POMPEI (Italy) proposed that the Committee  approve the list read out by the Chairman,
(3) Approved unanimously.  Commitiee on Reports
(4) Mr, CABOUAT (France) potted out that  Switzerland, which was not a member of the Executive  Board, was not ‘included in aay of the liste that had  been submitted to the Committee. He regretted the  fact that that country, which took a very active part  in carrying out Unesco's programme, should not be  represented on any Committee, Inhis view, a place  should be found for Switzerland on one of the  Committees, such as the Committee on Reports.
45) Mr. JOCHAMOWITZ (Peru) seconded the French  proposal and announced that he would withdraw in  favour of the Swiss delegate.
(6) Mr. BOERLIN (Switzerland) thanked the French  and Peruviandelegates,the former for what he had  said, and the latter for his generous action, which he  deeply apprectated.
(7) The membership of the Committee on Reports, as  proposed by the Chairman and amended by the  substitution of Switzerland for Peru, was approved  unanimously.  Headquarters Committee
(8) Mr. FRAGA IRIBARNE (Spain) proposed that the  number of seats be increased to 20, in which case the  delegate of Peru might be given a scat on the  Headquarters Committee.
(9) The CHAIRMAN asked Mr, Davies, in his  capacity as Chairman of the Administrative  Commission, whether the Administrative Commission  would have any objection if the Nominations Committee  recommended increasing the number to 20 members.
(10) Mr, ‘DAVIES (Australia) replied that the Admini-  strative Commission had made its recommendation to  the General Conference, and it had been only because  of the shortage of time that the General Committee  had agreed, as an exceptions! measure, to forward the  recommendation to the Nominations Committee for  action before a decision had been taken by the General  Conference, Hé did not think that making such a  recommendation as had been suggested was within the  terms of reference of the Nominations Committee and,  if it did make such a recommendation, he would not,  in his capacity as Chairman of the Administrative  Commission, be in a position to support it at the  General Conference,   (11) Mr. ZIMIN (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics)  »
670  COMMITTEE  thought that, while it might be outside the Committee's  terms of reference to make recommendations for -  altering the number of seats on the Headquarters  Committee, thers was nothing to prevent if from -;  requesting the Administrative Commission to hold à  short meeting for the purpose of revising its decision  on the point, To ensure a wider representation, he  felt it necessary to increase the Committee's member-  ship to 21, as it was generally better to have an odd  number, He therefore proposed that not only Peru  but also Czechoslovakia be added to the list, as the  latter country maintained a permanent representative  at the Headquarters of the Organizution and he took  an active part in its work.
(12) Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) did not consider that  the Nominations Committee was competent to  recommend the number of members, the competent .  body being the Administrative Commission.
(13) The CHAIRMAN remarked that any delegate  could raise the question at a plenary meeting of the  General Conference,
(14) Mr. JOCHAMOWITZ (Peru) observed that the  procedure followed was not usual, as almost all the  members who had held office previously were being  retained and few new members admitted.
(15) The CHAIRMAN recalled that the Chairman of  the Headquarters Committee had strongly recom-  mended retaining the existing members to provide  continuity in the work. The work being carried out  by the Committee was not yet complete and it was  most desirable to allow those who had been engaged  on it since 1953 to remain for the time being.
(16) Mr. FRAGA IRIBARNE (Spain) felt that, in the  light of what the Chairman of the Administrative  Commission had said, there was no point in dwelling  on the question; he therefore proposed that the  Chairman submit the proposal to the General  Conference.
(17) Mr. FRANCOIS (France) drew attention to a .  clause in Rule 30 of the Rules of Procedure, referring  to the functions of thé Nominations Committee, which  stated that: It shall submit to the General Conference  proposals for the composition of committees,  commissions and subsidiary organs of the Conference  on which all Member States are not represented.”  He felt that the Committee had every right to submit  proposals to the Conference such as those just  formulated.
(18) Mr, LEONG (Union of Burma) thought that the  consensus of opinion was that there should be an  additional member, and if-the Chairman and other  members of the Committee wished to make such a  recommendation to the General Conference, he would  have no objection. On the other hand, he saw no  reason for.retaining all the 14 existing members of  the Committee.
(19) Mr. JOCHAMOWITZ (Peru) sald that, in a  conversation he had had with the delegate of Greece,  the latter had stated that he could not accept a seat   NOMINATIONS  as he had not sufficient time to devote to the Commit-  tee's labours.
(20) Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) asked the Chairman  to give a ruling whether or not the Nominations  Committee, under Rules 29 and 30 of the Rules: of  Procedure, was in a position to make a recommenda-  tion to the General Conference other than one  concerning the filling of posts.
(21) The CHAIRMAN thought that it would be for the  President of the General Conference to decide whether  à recommendation coming from the Nominations  Committee was in order or not.
(22) Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia), being of the opinion  that the Committee was not competent to recommend  an increase in the numbers of members of Committees,  suggested that it should proceed to make nominations.  He was in favour of following the recommendation of  the Administrative Commission that at least one-third  of the existing members of the Headquarters  . Committee be retained, rather than that of the  Committee's Chairman,
(23) Mr. "SIMSARIAN (United States of America)  moved that the Nominntions Committee recommend  to the General Confei ence that the Headquariers  Committee be composed of 20 members: the 19 listed  by the Chairman with Peru added.
(24) The proposal wag seconded.
(25) Mr. MASSAQUOI (Liberia), raising a point of  order, asked whether the word "composition" as used  in the Rules of Procedure could be defined as  including numbers.
(26) Miss McPHEE (Secretary) said that her inter-  pretation of the word "composition" was ""member-
671     COMMITTEE VH-3  ship", in the sense of the individual persons or  countries to be recommended for nomination to the  committee concerned, and that that had been the  interpretation given to it by previous séssions of the  General Conference, In the past, the General Confer-  erice had fixed the number of members for particular  comniiftées, arid similarly, st the current session,  the decision to increase the membership of the  Committee on Reports and to alter its terms of  reference had been taken by the General Conference  in plenary meeting,
(27) The CHAIRMAN suggested that the Committee  endorse the membership suggested, and that it ask  that a twentieth member be added to the Committee.  If that request was agreed to, it could suggest the  name of Peru, If the delegate of Greece confirmed  that Greece would be unable to take its seat on the  Committee, Peru could automatically be substituted.
(28) Miss MoPHEE (Secretary) pointed out that the  delegate of Greece could withdraw in favour of Peru  at the plenary meeting.
(29) Mr, JOCHAMOWITZ (Peru) accepted the proposed  procedure which he considered to be wise and fair,
(30) The CHAIRMAN asked the members of the  Committee whether they were prepared to accept the  list he had read out, on the understanding’ that, if the  delegate of Greece confirmed the withdrawal of  Greece from membership, the name of Peru could  be proposed. 'If the delegate of Greece was unable to  confirm his country's withdrawal, some delegate  might propose the addition of à member to the  Committee, the extra member to be Peru,
(31) It was so decided,  The meeting rose at 7 p.m.