iv-29 PROGRAKUE COMMISSION  "TWENTY -NINTH MEETING
29 Novembsr 1986, at 6.30 p, m.  Chairman: Mr. CAMERON (Canada)
(1) As the Chairman was unable to atténd the meet-  ing and none of \. “three Vice-Chairmen wai present,  Mr, THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) said  that, in the Legal Adviser's opinion, any of the  Officers could, in an emergency and with the approval  of the Commission, take the Chair,
(2) The Commission approved that procedure and  Mr. Cameron, the Rapporteur, took the Chair,  ITEM 0.5 OF THE AGENDA : MASS COMMUNICATION (continued)  (documents 9C/5 and Addenda end Corrigenda)
(3) Referring to the recent inzuguration in New Delhi  of a "Friends of Unesco" Club, Mr, TSUDA (Japan)  heartily welcomed the initiative of the Indian National  Commission for Unesco, but pointed out that he had  found no reference, in the Proposed Programme for
1957-1958, to Unesco's plans for encouraging the  sstablishment of such Clubs and for assisting and  stimulating their activities, There was some reference  to those Clubs in the Report of the Director-General  for 1955, but very few funds seemed to have been  allocated to that activity. He wondered what the  Department of Mass Communication proposed to do  in that matter,
(4) Mr. GJESDAL (Director, Départment of Mass  Communication) réplied that Unésco's relations with  “Friends of Unesco" Clubs vere handled by the’  Division of Public Liaison, nnd that they rad greatly  developed, ‘he provision for that activity was  included in the $ 43, 200 shown in paragraphs 135(a)  and 136 of document 8C/5 Corrigendum 1, under the  heading "Co-operation with orgauizations",  Draft resolution 9C/DR/45 (Rev.)
(5) The CHAIRMAN opened discussion on document
9C/DR/45 (Rev.), the revised version of a proposal  submitted by the delegation of Yugoslavia,
(6) Miss FIELD (United Kingdom) said that her  delegation did not feel that the. revised text’ embodied  the amendments the United Kirigdom had proposed  during the discussion of the original proposal, It was,  felt that, - although a meeting of ‘journalists of the type  suggested was desirsble, it was a project that would  give rise to many problems and difficulties, and that  the Director-General should therefore study the pos-  sibilities more fully, and report to the tenth session.
(7) Mr. BOGDANOVIC' (Yugoslavia) stated hat the =  Yugoslav delegation had revised its proposal in the  light of all the observations and comments put ”  forward during the discussion, - that it had deletéd ‘  anything likely to lead to misunderstanding and had  stressed the principle that the Conference of rep- - .  resentatives of organizations of journalists should  include members of national groups and international  assoclatidons, It had further emphasized the need for  Unesco tu make an effort to strengthen its collaboration  with the press throughout the world,  The delegate of Yugoslavia had gathered frors the .  previous discussions that members of the Commission  were in favour of the draft resolution, and recalled  that it had met with the support of the United Kingdom  delegation, He therefore hoped that the revised draft  would be adopted,
(8) Miss FIELD (United Kingdom) explained that her  delegation supported the Yugoslav proposal but felt  that, by obliging the Director-General to rush his  preparations through in time to hold the Conference  within the next two years, the Commission might  imperil its success,
(9) Mr. BOGDANOVIC (Yugoslavia) said that, “when  the draft under consideration had first been discussed,  his delégation had listened sympathetically to all the -  remarks put forward. It was prepared to show the  same open- -mindedness with regard to any. ‘subsequent  remarks, since it considered it a matter of prime’  importance that the proposal should be carried Into  effect es soon as possible, in some way or other.  If the Commission deferred its decision until the next  session, it would be another two years before the  necessary collaboration betwec4 Unesco and the world  press could be established - a situation which had to  be avoided,
(10) Mr. GJESDAL (Directôr, Department of Mass  Communication) noted that there : Was fitile’ difference  between the text of tke Tirst paragraph a ‘of the revised  draft resolution and the first paragraph’ ¢f the ériginal  version. During discussion ¢ of the first text, he had  pointed out | that the bringing together ‘of professional  organizations wis scarcely within the mandate of  Unesco; conversation with the Legal "Adviser, and  consultation of the Constitution, had confirmed that  view, Hé presumed tbat the reference to the  "consultation" of national and international organina-  tions of journslists, in the fourth paragraph, implied  that Unesco would obtain their consent before holding  the Conference; it would scarcely be possible to  convene a meeting of journalists if such organizations  did not agree.  So far as the budgetary provision of $10,000 _  mentioned in the last paragraph of the resolutio! vas   PROGRAMME OOMMISSION  concerned, he pointed qui that the Secretariat  estimated that a five-day meeting at Unesco Head-  quarters in Paris; attended by 50 jourpalists from  all parts of the world, could not be held for leas  than $33, 034. Theat estimate was based on the  assumption that Unesco would pay the full travel  costc of delegates; he realised that the Yugoslav |  delegation had proposed that Unesco should bear only  part of the travel costs, ;but in his experience  national associations of journalists were not wealthy  bodies and, if they were calied upon to share the  travel costs of their delegates, only those with  sufficient resdurces would be represented.
(11) Mr, KELLERMANN (United Stafes of America)  felt that no one contested the importance of achieving  better understanding between the world's journalists  and Unesco, However, his delegation was not con-  vinced that the proposal, as framed, was sufficiently  mature to merit further consideration at the current  session. All journalists were ina position ta obtain  information about Unesco, but any further action  required detailed preparation and planning. Before  accepting the Yugoslav. proposal, therefore, he |  would request more information regarding the agenda  of the Conference, and what it was hoped to  accomplish at that meeting. He also sought an  assurance that Unesco would not proceed unilaterally,  but would submit its plans to the organizations con-  cerned, especially those having consultative status,  in order to secure their participation and ensure the  success of the Conference,
(12) Mr, BRUNSVICK (France), having regard to  the remarks made, thought theré was a means of  upholding a principle which seemed to have met  with general approval, but which it was found  difficult to put info practice. In his opinion, the  Commission could’ invite the Director-General to  consult nations] and international organizations of  journalists concerning the role of journalists in the  development of international understanding, and in  particular in the tield of co- operation with Unesco.  The Director-General would not merely prepare a  report but would begin sounding out the various  organizations! views, ’ ;  - (13) Mr, BRONIAREK (Poland) pointed out that there  had been much. discussion of the importance of the  trée flow à information and its contribution to  intérñationa] understanding, and many delegatés  had drawn attention té the value of personal contacts  and ‘exchanges of opinion between experts | from  : different parts of the world. He failed to'see ‘why  there should bé any difficulty in convening a’con-’  ference of journalists, ‘when Unesco had already  organized so many meetings of expérts in ôther  fields of its compétence, The. suggestion: of the  i delegate of France was worthy of support, but he  .woûld regret the delay causéd by postponemient ‘of  the Conference. He agreed with the delegate ‘of  Yugoslavia that most of the delegates would be  prepared to contribute towards their travel expenses.  " (14) Mr. BALIGA {Indis) supported thé objectives  - of the draft resolution, which he felt would do mich  to promote international understanding, However,
473  'IV-20  in some countries, national agsociations of , -  journalists were not well organised, and he would  therefore propose that the second and third lines  of the fourth paragraph be amended to read M  ‘after consultation with the National Commis-  sions and international organizations of jourpalists. . ,  With that amendment he would wupport 4 the draft  resolution,
(15) The CHAIRMAN read the text of the amengdment  proposed by the delegate of France: "The Director-  General is authorized to consult national and inter-  national organizations of journalists concerning the  . Tôle of journalists in the development of international  understanding and, in particular, in the field of co-  operation with Unesco".
(16) Miss FIELD (United Kingdom) believed that that  text corresponded almost exactly to the amendment  previously proposed by her delegation. She would  therefore support it.
(17) Of the two draft amendments to document 9C/  DR/45(Rev, ) ~ that of the French delegate, which was  very similar to that of the United Kingdom delegate,  and the Indian delegate's amendment - Mr.  BOGDANOVIC (Yugoslavia) prefarred the second,  which he thought would yield quicker results.
(18) Mr.. VIDAL (Chile) asked whether the amendment  proposed by the French delegate and supported by the  United Kingdom delegation had any budgetary  implications, or whether the Director-General was  merely being advised to consult national and inter-  national organizations of journalists without taking  any further action.
(19) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) vas prepared to.  Sapport the amendment proposed by the Indian  gate, if it met with the Commission's approval.
(20) Mr, KELLERMANN (United States of Kietica)  stressed the {importance of the point raised by the  delegate of Chile, The Department Director had  indicated that the budgetary provision proposed in  the draft resolution was quite inadequate to enable  bim to organize a conference of the type suggested,  and had given the Secretariat's estimate of the funds  required as $38, 634, The meeting should know,  therefore, whether it was voting a resolution with  an inadequate budgetary provision, or whether it was  voting the increased provision submitted by the  Secretariat.
(21) Mr. ‘GJESDAL (Director, Department of Mass  Communicution) added that thé amendment proposed  by the delegate of France and supported by the  United Kingdom wouid have but little budgetary  implication, as the Secretariat already possessed  the machinery for consulting with national and  international orgénizations. a.
(23) Mr, TSUDA ‘(Japan)’ pointed out at jourial-  ists, on the whole, were réluétaht to accept  financial assistancé from governments, whether’  such assistancé was given directly or  indirectly.  $ 20 24
(23) Mr,‘ THOMAS (Assistant Director-General)  contirmed that thé amendment proposed by the Indian  delegate still involved the calling of a conference of  representatives of journalists’ associations, so that  the budgetary’ implications of the proposal remained  unchanged,  The delegaté of Japan’ thought that journalists:  would not wish their expenses for attendance at the  conference in question to be paid for them, If that  were so, Mr, Thomas felt it would be unnecessary  to make any special budgetary allocation for the  purpose, However, he was not sure that such was  the intention of the Yugoslav proposal,
(24) The CHAIRMAN called for a vote on the draft  resolution submitted by the delegate of Yugoslavia,  as amended by the delegate of India,
(25) Mr. BRÔNIAREK (Poland) intervened on a point  of order: the Secretariat had submitted its revised  budgetary estimates, but no motion for the amend-  ment of the estimates contained in the draft  resolution had béen made from the floor, The  resolution before the meeting was, therefore,  accompanied by a budgetary provision of $10, 000.
(26) Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) referred to his  previous contention that, in'such cases, the Commis-  sion should accept the estimate of the Secretariat,  The Director-General was placed ina ‘difficult  position when he was required to accept new  proposals for which he had had no time to prepare  detailed work plans and estimates. Delegates should,  therefore, rely on his experience and accept his  calculation of the cost of new proposals.
(27) At the request of the CHAIRMAN, the Commis-  sion agreed to accept that principle when considering  the budgetary implications of new draft resolutions.
(26) Upon a vote being taken, the draft resolution  ‘submitted by the delegation of Yugoslavia (document
9C/DR/ 45 (Rev, )), as amended by the delegate of  India, was rejected by 17 votes to 14, with 4  abstentions,  Draft resolution 9C/DR/20 °
(29) The CHAIRMAN ‘asked if the Commission was  prepared to vote on the proposal submitted by the.  delegation of France in document 9C/DR/20, which  it had discussed at a previous meeting.
(30) Mr. ‘GJESDAL (Director, Department of Mass  Communication) indicated that, in the opinion of the  Secretariat, the budgetary provision for that proposal  should be increased from $10, 000 to $185, 000,
(31) Mk. ‘BRUNSVICK (France) recalled that, at the  request of several members of the Commission, the  French delegation had agresd to amend its draft by  deleting, in paragraph 2, the words "in Europe” and  the specific reference to the regional character of  the seminar.   (33) Mr. VITAL (Chile) inquired whether the budgetary
474  PROGRAMME COMMISSION  provision of $15, 000 was proposed in document
9C/8 Corrigendum 4, or whether it was included in  the Director-General's original budget estimates,  . (33) Mr, GJESDAL (Director, Department ‘of Mass  Communication) replied that the sum was not  included in the provision for the Department of  Mass Communication in thé Diréctor-General's  budgetary proposals for the peridd 1057-1958. It  was for that reason that the Director-General had  been unable to recommend inclusion of the French  delegation's proposal in the 1957-1958 programme,
(34) Upon a vote being taken, the proposal of the  French delegation (document 9C/DR/20), as amended,  and with a budgetary implication of £15, 000, was  adopted by 11 votes to 7, with 14 abstentions,  Draft resolution 8C/DR/22
(35) The CHAIRMAN opened discussion on a further  proposal submitted by the delegation of France  (document 9C/DR/22),
(36) Mr, BRUNSVICK (France) satd that the French  delegation had been prompted by its study of thé  Proposed Programme and Budget to put forward  draft resolution 9C/DR/22. Paragraph 171 of the  Mass Communication programme listed the activities  concerning audio-visual média of Information which  would be completed in 1956. That paragraph was at  variance with paragraph 141, which provided for  Unesco to co-opérate with mass communication  organizations; furthermore, the General Conference,  at its eighth session, had decided that priority  should be given to 'audio-visual média. It was there-  fore to fill in a gap in the programme that the French  délegation had put forward its proposal.  ( 37) The CHAIRMAN announced that the budgetery  implications of the proposal - $15, 000 - had been  agreed by the Secretariat,
(38) Thé proposal of the French delégation contained  in document 9C/DR/22 was put to the vote and adopted  by 19 votes to 15, with 7 abstentions.
(39) At the request ‘of Mr, WEEDEN (Australia), it  was agreed to refer thé item to the special body set  up to consider projects that had an interdepartmental  character, in order to determine whether it should  be implemented by the Department of Mass Communica  tion, or by the Department of Education.  Draft resolutions 9C/DR/33 and 9C/DR/34
(40) The CHAIRMAN opened discussion on the P al  es by the delegate of India in document Ay  DR/34
(41) Mr. BALIGA (India) recalled that he had"  presented the proposal contained in document 9C/  DR/ 34 at a previous meeting, when he had explained  the purposes of the pilot project and indicated its  objectives in the fields of education, science and   PROGRAMME  cultufe, However, in view of the statement of the  Director of the Department that a similar project  with a budgetary provision of $15, 000 had been  included in the Director<General's supplementary  progremme proposals, his delegation would withdraw  its draft resolution, :  Mr, Baliga recalled that the proposal in document
9C/DR/33 had also been discussed at some length  at a previous meeting of the Commission, when it  had received à certain measure of support, However,  in view of certain points raised during that discussion,  his delegation would propose that the suggested  addition to paragraph 162 be amended to read as  follows: "A similar audio-visual seminar will be  organized for South East Asia, in a country within  this region".
(43) Mri GJESDAL (Director, Departs tent of Mass  Communication) referred to thé point ne had raised  in the previdua discussion of thé itm: ‘owing to the  heavy work load already devolving upon the ‘init  concerned, through the organization of a similar  seminar in Latin America, the büdgétary provision  of $15, 000 proposed by the Indian delegation would  have to be increased by $4, 534 to $19, 534,
(43) Mr. BURNS (New Zealand) said that his delegation  would oppose the Indian proposal, not because it was  against the holding of an audid-visual seminar in  South East Asia, bat because it felt that the organiza-  tion of one such regional seminar was sufficient  for the period 1957-1958, It would support the  holding of a similer ceminar in South East Asia  during éohsideration of the 1959-1960 programme at  the tenth session.
(44) Upon a vote being taken, the proposal submitted  by the delegation ot India in ‘document 9C/DR/ 33,  us amended, and with a budgetary provision of  $19,634, wns adopted by 22 votes to 7, with 8  abstentions,  Resolutions 5.51 and 5,52
(45) There being no further draft resolutions in  condexion with that item, the CHAIRMAN called for  a vote on resolution 5.51 (paragraph 156, Chapter 5  of document 9C/5).
(46) That resolution was adopted unanimously, with  one abstention,
(47) A vote was then taken on resolution 5.52 (para-  griph 157), Mr. BERKELEY (Secretary) drawing  attention to the amenëments to that resolution  contained in paragraph 157 of the chapter on Mass  Communica‘ion LA document 9C/8 Corrigendum 1.
(48) The resolution, as amended, vas adopted  unanimously,  Draft resolutions 8C/DR/70 and 9C/DR/124
(49) The CHAIRMAN opened discussion on the draft  resolutions contained in documents 8C/DIi/70
475  COMMISSION IV-20  and 9C/DR/124 felating theréto, Document 9C/DR/
124 contained an amendment submitted by the  delegation of the United Stites of America to the text  proposed by the delegation of the Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics in document 9C/DR/ 70,
(50) Mr, KEMENOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) announced that; after thorough consider-  ation of draft aniendment 9C/DR/124, his delegation  had taken the view that it could hardly be regarded as  a possible amendment to draft resolution 9C/DR/70,  The United States draft améndmeént should be  considered as an ‘independent draft resolution, or as  a drift amendment to other proposed resolutions,  The aim of the Soviet delegation's draft resolution  was to condemn thé use of mass communication media  for purposes of propaganda in support of any act of  aggression or for the purpôsé of applying forcé in  relations between States. - That draft therefore con-  cerned the content of information, The United States  draft améndrent related to the’ free tlow of information,  which was aii entirely différent matter:  The Soviel delegate expialñéd that, before drawing  up draft resdlution 9C/DR/70, his delegation had  made a conscientious study of the Mass Cotimunication  chapter, with special reference to item 5, 1; it had  analysed the structure of the chapter an ‘had  followed thrdugh the train of thought behind it,  Paragraph 3 referred to the building up of à network  of institutions and’ specialists to disseminate  information Wupplied by Unesco. Paragraph 5 provided  not only for the improvement of mass media’ techniques  and the removal of obstacles to the free flow of  information, but aisc for specialists to deal with  matters éoncérning ‘the content and quality of inform-  ation, Those arrangements were excellent, but the  latter aim was not reflected in the proposed resolutions,  It was to make good that oversight and to bring the  proposed resolutions into line with the introductory  paragraphs that the Soviet delegation had presented  draft resolution 9C/DR/70, It felt that if the use of  comniunicatiôn media for the purpose of sowing  discord were permitted, discord would inevitebly  result,’  The draft umendment of the Uiiited States delegation,  Mr, Kemenov’ emphasized,’ ‘had nothing. to do with that  question, as its Plrposè ) us to delete ail” Teference  to the uge of ‘commiunicat on ‘media for purposes of  propaganda in support of aggression or tor thé  purpose of applying | force in relations between States,  and to replace | hat {once t by a  reference to the. need  for tree flow of information.” $o far as the later point  was concerned, thé Commission had ‘Already. adopted  document 9C/ PRG/ 16 déaling with the measures which  might be taken by Merber States. to ‘promote the free  flow of information, The United States draft amend-  ment made no proposal not already embodied in |  document 9C/PRG/16, with which it therefore over-  lapped. .  Mr, Kemenov explainé d that if the Ustied States  delegation was against thé adoption of ‘draft resolution
8C/DR/70, it was free to vote against it, but be  asserted once again that’ the Soviet delegation was .  unable to accept draft resolution 9C/DR/ 124 as  an amendment ‘lo its own draft, and that it  urged consideration of that document as a  separate proposal.   IV-29
(51) Mr, KELLERMANN (United States of America)  was unable to agree with the view expressed by the  delegate of thy Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,  and recalled that, in submitting its amendment to  the proposal contained in document 9C/DR/ 70, the  United States delegation had had in mind a question  of form as well as a question of substance, It felt  that condemnation was an activity in which Unesco,  as a positive organization devoted to affirmative  activities, should not engage publicly if a positive  statement could achieve the same purpose. |  The delegate of the Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics had alleged that the United States amend-  ment had no substance, but be, would point out that  its desire to see the free flow of information upheld  by all available means was related to the clear  objectives of the Unesco Constitution. His delegation  had not thought it necessary to repeat the relevant  paragraphs of the Constitution in its amendment, but  they were cléarly stated in Article I; it could not,  therefore be stated that the amendment had no  substance, His delegation maintained that positive  knowledge was preferable to negative propaganda, and  that reference to peace was more desirable than  reference to aggression,
(52) Mr. HAVELKA (Czechoslovakia) emphasized  that Unesco had taken a positive task in hand and  that it should not only encourage ail action  calculated to strengthen friendship between peoples,  but also consider all factors liable to ‘impair friendly  understanding between States, with spécial reference  to war propaganda, which was a threat to peace and  to mankind, No one could deny that such propaganda  was contrary to the spirit of Unesco's Constitution  and that it was extremely dangerous at a time when  wholesale destruction was possible,” The Programme  Commission had before it a draft resolution condemn-  ing such propaganda and a draft amendment advocat-  ing the deletion of that idea fiom the draft resolution.  The Commission's vote could have only two possible  outcomes - either the ‘condemnation or the defence  of such propaganda, Accordingly, there could be  .no doubt that the Commission should strive to reach  agreement on what was really the only possible  stand. The Soviet delegation's draft should not be  rejected merely because it was put forward by that  delegation, for the problem raised was too serious  and too complex. The Czechoslovak delezate thers-  fore proposed adoption of the same procedure as in  other cases in which it had seemed difficult to  achieve ‘agreement, namely, the appointment by the  Commission of a srzail working party, which might  consist of che United States, Indian and Soviet  delegatas, to prepare a draft that would meet  wt general approval,
(53) Mr: KELLERMANN (United States of America)  did not believe that à working party could réach an  acceptable agreement in that particular case. The  word "propaganda" was interpreted in so many  different ways that it seerned unlikely that a working  party could achiève any real progress ‘in the matier.
(54) Mr, KEMENOV (Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics) gathered that the United States delegation  bad no wish to attempt consideration of a problem
476     PROGRAMME COUMISSION  which was nevertheless of paramount impértance to  all mankind, He felt that all persons interested in,  promoting peace should do everything in their power  to foster mutual understanding between the peoples,  The Soviet delegate recalled that & resolution ,-  similar to that proposed by his delegation had been.  adopted by the General Conference at its eighth :  session, and that it had included the term ""propa-  ganda" which apparently alarmed the United States  delegate, That resolution had been prepared by a |  working party, and the Conference had adopted the |  wording it had proposed, Mr, Kemenov thought that  in the case under consideration there was no reason  why the Commission should not arrive at a  satisfactory solution,
(55) Mr, KUDRFAVTSEYV (Byelorussian Soviet  Socialist Republic) announced that his delegation,  after careful consideration of documents $C/DR/70  and 9C/DR/124, held them to be essentially  different in substance and did not feel that the latter  could be regarded as an amendment to the former,  The Byelorussian delegate’ drew the Commission's  attention to the importance of the problem under  discussion and to the alternatives with which it was  faced - either to express its views regarding the  danger of using communication media in support of  war propaganda, or to remain silent. But, as the  Soviet delegate had previously pointed out, the-  General Conference had already taken a decision on  that matter at its eighth session, and, moreover, the  United Nations had adopted a resolution in 1947  condemning war propaganda as imperilling mutual  understanding between the peoples. Unesco could not  refuse to reassert its views on such'a question,  Mankind was moving steadily forward and communi-  cation media were playing an increasingly important  rôle; it was Unesco's duty to emphasize the need  for using such media for the promotion of better  collaboration between the peoples. Mr. Kudrjavtsev  affirmed his delegation's support of the Soviet  delegation's draft resolution,
(56) Mr. BRONIAREK (Poland) believed that, if  there was any possibility of reaching an understand-  ing between the parties concerned, the attempt should  be made. If the working party found that there was  no chance of reaching an agreement, it would report  back to the Commission accordingly, and a decision  would then be taken by vote, The two poinis of view  did not seem to be so widely divergent, since  condemnation of a negative action, i.e, the use of  mass media as a propaganda weapon to uphold  aggression, achieved a positive result. The working  party might well be able to reconcile the two view-  points.
(57) Mr, IVASCU (Rumania) announced that his  delegation regarded the Soviet delegations draft  resolution as entirely in keeping with the aims  pursued by Unesco.’ He felt it to be oné of the  Organization's responsibilities to condemn the use  of communication media for purposes of war  propaganda, Everyone was aware, Mr. Ivascu  emphasized, that false news and dishonest com-  mentaries were used in the same way as the most  up-to-date weapons for the purpose of supporting   PROGRAMME COMMISSION  aggressive policies, The development of techniques  had increased the number of communication media and  given them an added influence, That influence could  be conducive to either peace or war. It was for  Unesco to disgociate itself from war propaganda and  to condemn the use of communication media for such  purposes,
(58) Mr, KELLERMANN (United States of America)  agreed with the delegate of-Poland that a double  negative did indeed create à positive, but pointed  out that the issue was not a question of mathemstics,  but of a fundamental divergence of views, He did  not believe that it was the rôle of Unesco to pronounce  judgements, and the very word "condemns" removed  the discussions of Unesco from the plane of science  and culture to that of politics - a field which all had  agreed should be avoided in Unesco. For that  reason he did not think a working party could take  any responsible decision in the matter,
(69) The CHAIRMAN ruled that the United States  proposal constituted an amendment to the proposal  of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics contained  in document 8C/DR/ 70, and could be voted on as  such,
(60) Upon a vote being taken, it was agreed, by 17  votes to 15, with § abstentions, to refer draft  resolutions 9C/DR/70 and 9C/DR/124 to a working  party, to be composed of seven Member States  nominated by the Chairman,  Draft resolutions 9C/DR/ 66 and 9C/DR/127
(61) The CHAIRMAN opened discussion on draft  resolution 9C/DR/66, submitted by the delegation  of Czechoslovakia, and on an amendment to that  proposal contained in document 9C/DR/127,  submitted by the delegation of the United States of  America,
(62) Mr, HAVELKA (Czechoslovakia) explained why  his delegation had proposed an amendment to draft  resolution 6, 31, Communication media were of  great importance in the relations bétween peoples.  If they were used for the promotion of international  understanding, théy might sérve a ‘very useful  purpose, but if they transmitted false information  or were used as a means of enabling governments  to interfere in the affairs of other States, they might  be a stepping-gtone to aggression, Mr. Havelka  reminded the Commission, in that connexion, of the  broadcasts sent out by Hitler's radio services during  the Second World War, and urged the impossibility  of Unesco's supporting such propaganda. Accordingly,  the Czechoslovak delegation had wishéd to expand  resolution 5, 31, which, in its épinion, was not  sufficiently clear; it had felt it necessary to show  how communication media could sérve the cause of  international understanding and to draw attention  to things that should be avoided if International  tension was not to be aggravated,  , The Czechoslovak delegate pointed to two  omissions in the draft amendment, document 8C/  DR/127, submitted by the United States delegation:
477     IV-20  it did not mention the need for objective information,  nor did it advocate the prevention of any misuse of  communication media.
(63) Mr. CALO (Italy) said that he had voted in .  favour of referring draft resolutions 9C/DR/70 and
9C/DR/124 to a working party for consideration. He  noted the same ambiguities and incompatibilities so  far as the substance of documents 9C/DR/66 and.
9C/DR/ 127 was concerned; the problems seemed to  him to be absolutely identical, He therefore proposed  referring documents 9C/DR/66 and 9C/DR/127 to the  same working party,  - (4) That proposal was seconded by the delegate of  France,
(65) The CHAIRMAN welcomed that proposal and,  there being no objection, it was so agreed,  Resolutions 5. 33 and 6, 34
(66) The CHAIRMAN opened discussio,on résolutions
5.33 and 5. 34, consideratio;\ of which had been  deferred pending a decision on the substantive  question raised {n paragraph 139, The Programme  Commission had since decided to continue the Unesco  book coupon scheme, The Commission would there-  fore vote on the alternative text of the resolutions  contained in paragraph 66 of Chapter 5 of document
9C/6 Corrigendum 1, That alternative text had been  adopted unanimously by the Joint Working Party of  the Administrative Commission and the Programme  Commission,
(87) Upon a vote being taken, resolutions 5.33 and
5,34 contained in Corrigendum 1 to document 9C/5  were adopted unanimously, with one abstention,  Draft resolutions 8C/DR/25 (Rev. ) and 9C/DR/50
(68) The CHAIRMAN opened discussion on Project
5,324 and on draft resolutions 9C/DR/25 (Rev. ),  submitted by the delegation of France, and 8C/DR/50,  submitted by the delegation of Argentina, whick  relatéd thereto,
(69) M¥, BRUNSVICK (France) recalled that  document 8C/DR/25 had already been considered  by the Commission and that the French delegation’  had accepted an amendment proposed by the delegation  of Argentina.” A revised text had been handed to the  Secretariat for reprodutiion, but had not yet been  distributed, The French delegate suggested that the  Secretary read the revised text to enable the  Commission to take a decision,
(70) Mr. ‘BERKELEY (Secretary) read out the text  of documént 9C/DR/25 (Rev, ), pointing out that  paragraph'3 had been slightly amended and that the  proposal no longer had any budgetary implications,
(71) Upon à vote being taken, the revised proposal  submitted by the delegation of France was adopted by
26 votes to 8, with 1 abstention.   Iv-29 PROGRAMME
(73) Mr,‘ BERKELEY (Sécretary) announced that no  decision could he taken with respect to the proposal  aubmitted by the delegation of Argentina in document
9C/DR/50, as the working party had not yet reported  thereon,
(73) The CHAIRMAN then put resolution 5,32  (paragraph 65) to the vote, That resolution was  adopted unanimously,  Document 8C/PRG/15 and draft resolutions 9C/DR/
78 and 9C/DR/115
(74) The CHAIRMAN opened discussion ôn document
9C/PRG/15, Report on the desirability of the  creation of an international body on the influence of  mass media on children, and on the draft resolutions  presented by the delegations of Italy (document
9C/DR/ 78) and France (document 9C/DR/115), which  related thereto,
(75). Mr. GJESDAL (Director, Déparénient of Mass  Communication) expressed the Sécretariat's great  satisfaction with the: report of the meeting of experts  convened fi Paris in October 1956," which was  contained in document 9C/PRG/ 15, That report’  showed that a’ mimber of serious problems had been  discussed, The Secretariat supported thie proposal  made by the Italian délegation In document 9C/DR/78,  but could not recommend the establishment of a  special section within thé Clearing House of the  Department of Mass Communication, as the  additional staff required for that purpose would  result in a budgetary increase of $18, i3s,
(76) Miss FIELD (United Kingdom) welcoméd the  proposals made, but urged that Unesco consider not  only the adverse influence of press, film, radio and  television on children, but also their possible good  effects. .
(77) Mr, CALO (Ita) y). told the United Ki dor  delegate that ihe ‘tie of document 9C/DR/78 was  incorrect; it shoul bein line with the ‘title’ of  document 9C/PRG/15 and read: "Creation of an,  international body on the influence of ‘mass, media  on children", The Itallan delegation thought that good  and bad influences, should both be studied, Mr, Calo  added that document 9C/DR/78 did not refiéet his  delogation's originel proposal, ‘which had beer  , .- whittled down to the estabitghment of a pecial  section in the. Department of Mass Communication  _ for the study of the problems in question, Lens  , The Italian delegation ‘ was very anxious that such a  section should be established, as experience had y  revealed the extent to which communication media)  particularly the press, . radio and films, influenced  the development of children, The committee of  experts which had met in Paris, in; Goiober 1956 had  recognized that, although existing organizations were  in a position to supply useful information, they were  not able to provide sufficient co-ordination to ensure  that all possible media were used in the interests of  the development of children; the various countries  concerned had also expressed their support for the  establishment of a larger body than the one proposed.
478     CONMISSION  ‘The committee of experts had not been abld to meet  until October, whereas the meeting had originally -  been plannéd for the beginning of the year, The  financial implications of the proposal had therefore  not been considered in detail by the Italian delegation,  Mr. Calo requested the Commission to give favour-  able consideration to that proposal, which represented  the culmination of work done by the Secretariat over  a long period,  EERIE BE
(78) Mr," BRUNSVICK (France} said ti hat his delegation  supportéd the Italian delegation's draft resolution and  that draft amendment $C/DR/115 had been amended  in consultation with thé Italian delegation. The first  paragraph had been deleted and the rest of the =  amendment read: "Invites the Director-General to  continue, ‘in éénjünction with the International ‘  Association for Mass Communication Resesrch, now  being formed; ‘and with the International Centre of  Films for Children, to carry out research and  assemble documentation on all aspects of the press,  radio, films and télévision as they affect ‘children  and young péoplé (including their ude in teaching).  The Clearing House of the Department of Mass  Communication will, in any case, rémain  responsible for co-ordinating all such work, and  reporting the results to the Member States interested  init,"
(79) Mr. KUYPERS (Belgium) anndunced that he had  originally been against the proposal to set up the  documentation centre, but after hearing the arguments  put forward he had come round to the proposal made  by the Italian and French delegations.
(80) Miss FIELD (United Kingdom) felt that no one  could disagree with the prinéiple involved in the  proposal, but pointed'out that thé research in  question wis likely to be most unrewarding if there  were no co-operation théreon with the creators of  mass med’a, Any research project in the field of  mass media should include an equal number of  press, film and radio technicians,
(81) Mr. GJESDAL (Director, Départment of Mass  Communication)’ fhdicated that," although the budgetary  implication of the draft ‘resolution’ submitted by the  delegation of Italy {document 9C/DR/ 78) was  $18, 130, the amendment’ là that Fésolution submitted  by the delegation of France in document 9C/DR/115  had the effect of removing the budgetary implication,  as it was not proposed to establish any new unit In the  Clearing House of the.Mass Commupication Depart-  ment,
(82) Mr, CALO (itaiy) emphasized, ‘betore the vole  was taken, that the French délegation's amendmeut,  as just read out, did not in any way alter thé’  substance or form of draft: ‘résolution sc/ DR/ 78,  to which it constituted an addition. -
(83) ‘After further, discussion it; was ; agresd that the  Commission would vote on the ‘proposal contained in  document 9C/DR/78, as amended by the proposal  of the French delegation, on the understanding that  the Secretariat would implement that proposal in the  light of the discussion that had taken place thereon,   PROGRAMME COMMISSION  and of the explanations given during that dis-  cussion,
(84) The proposal was adopted unanimously, with  two abstentions,  ’ +
(85) Mr, FERNANDEZ de 1a MORA (Spain) wished to  register the Spanish) delegation's disagreement with  the statements made in document 9C/PRG/15,  paragraphs 4 and 8(d), where Spain was said to have  expressed conflicting opinions regarding the .  advisability of sôtting up an fiternational organization  to study the influence of mass media on children,  In actual fact, Spain had both public and private  institutions which sought to ensure that children  saw no harmful films, thus showing that it took a  positive stand on that problem. When it had sent  its reports to Unesco, however, it had communicated  the dissentient opinion of one body, The speaker  said that the Spanish delegation could not approve  that document unless the paragraphs to which he had  alluded were corrected,
(86) The CHAIRMAN said that the remarks of the  delegate of Spain would be noted in the records of  the meeting,
(87) There being no further comment, the report  contained in document 9C/PRG/15 was noted and  approved,  “ Document 9C/PRG/13
(88) At the request of the CHAIRMAN, Mr, GJESDAL  (Director, Departmen( of Mass Communication)  presentad the report by the Director-General on  the pospibility of instituting a World Culture, Science  and Education week, and Unesco Awards (document
9C/PRG/13). The report was sel{-explangtory, the  recommendations of the Director-General to the  General Conference being contained in paragraph
(88) There being no comment, the report was noted  and approved.
(80) The CHAIRMAN then announced that the working  party on the draft resolutions relating to the Free  Flow of Information would be composed of rep- .  resentatives of the following Member States:  - Belgium, Chile, New Zealand, India, Poland, the  Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United  States of America. The delegate of India would take  the Chair.  -(81) Mr, BRUNSVICK: (France) pointed out that the -  Commission had not ‘voted on the proposals put  forward in document 8C/5 regarding the staff of  - the Department of Mass Communication. He  - lnquired whether the vote would be taken at this  forthcoming meeting,
(91) Mr. BERKELEY (Sécretaty)) pointed out that,  in dealing with the ôther Departments of the  Secretariat, the Commission had done no more than  note the paragraphs relating to staff,
(93) The CHAIRMAN jnvited the Commission to note  the paragraphe under the heading "Explanatory  Statement on Staff {n the Chapter on Masa Com-  munication (paragraphs 174 to 204),
(94) Mr, BRUNSVICK (France) said that, when the  Mass Communication chapter had first come up for  study, a numbér of comments had been made by-  dolegutions which were anxious that action should be  taken on certain recommendations dating from the  eighth session of the General Conference, He' -  wished to be quite certain that those comments would  bè taken into consideration when the Director-General  reconsidered the important question of the organis-  ation of the Department of Mass Communication. -
(95): Mr, THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) did  not think that any motion in writing concerning either  the structure or the staffing of the Department of  Mas Cofamunication had been put forward during the  discussion, The delegate of France was doubtless  referring to verbal statements made during the  general discussion on certain recommendations or  resolutions’ of the’ eighth session. Mr. Thomas said  thet the Director-General kept a close watch on the  work of the Department, to which he attached great  importance, and he could assure the French delegate  that he would continue to do so; moreover, the .  Executive Board was responsible, under the Consti-  tution, for supervising the execution of the programme  and could therefore bring up the question at any  moment,
(96) Mr. BOURGEOIS (Switzerland) was surprised  that a P-4 post of Programme Specialist.  (journalism), ‘provided for in document sC/8, 8, para-  graph 180, had beeri abolished in document 9C/5  Corrigendum 1.
(97) Mr.’ THOMAS (Assistant phédétor-Génefai)  reminded the méeting that that point 1 had already.  been made and that the Dirécio “of th ¢ Department  had given a reply, ‘The ‘Execullve ‘Board 3 ‘at its July  session, had instricied the. Diréctor-Genér al to  reconsider the staffing’ ‘position. of (hé Sécretariat  and, aftér careful study, ‘he had decided That € the  stadt could bé slightly. reduced; accordingly, . '  document 9C/5, Corrigendum 1, reflected that  decision to aol certain posts provided for in the  original document, The Diréctor-General  therefore obeyed the instructions of the Executive  Board, ‘and did not consider it possible to re-. ….  establish posts which {twas not absolutely hecessary  to maintain, - In the particular case of the post  mentièned in paragraph 190, the Diréctor of the -  Department had taken the view that ‘establishment  of an institute, . attached to the. University of .  Strasbourg, placed the project’ on a new basis, and  that the functions of the post could be carried out by  the Director or Deputy Director or by other officials  of the Department, .
(98) Mr, KUYPERS (Belgium) thanked the Rapporteur,  on behalf of all delegates, for having taken thé Chair  at the meeting. - .  The meeting rose at 9 p.m.