IV-3 PROGRAMME  its success. It was important to move very cautiously  in the first stage of its execution, for it was perhaps  the most important of all the projects that Unesco had  undertaken, It demanded much more careful prepara-  tion than the two others, for if a real understanding  was to be achieved, it would be necessary to get down  to the roots of two humanistic conceptions of extremely  different kinds, Belgium would collaborate in that  effort to the full extent of its capa ities,  Mr, Florkin observed in conclusiva that, with the  major project in question, Unesco was entering a new  sphere, was facing a problem of a new order.  . (46) The CHAIRMAN invited the observer of the World  Federation of Trade Unions to say a few words.
(47) Miss LEVY (World Federation of Trade Unions)  observed that in the modern world workers in all  countries were taking an ever increasing part in cul-  tural life, It was surprising that in Unesco's vast  programme so small a share had been allotted to  workers, and that only a few very limited activities  had been devoted to them,  Workers! travel, in particular, was extremely  Oo     OMMIBBION  fruitful both for those actually taking part and for their  friends and acquaintances; but four out of five applice-  tions had to be rejected, although the experts meeting  at La Brévière in 1953 had recommended that the -  activity should no longer be considered purely experi-  mental. Miss Levy realized that it was difficult to  organize travel on a very large scale, bus it would be  well to take advantage of every possibillly of extending  it, more particularly between continents; :  There was also a cut in the estimates fur adult:  education. Nothing seemed to have been provided for  Africa in the programme, and very little for women's  education. The discrimination from which women .  still suffered in the educational sphere was very real;  the Director-General himself, in paragraph 79 of his :  report for 1955, had drawn attention to one case, Unesco  should make a great effort to see that women had oppor-  tunities for education according to their abilities,  In conclusion, Miss Levy wished to reaffirm that the  World Federation of Trade Unions continued to offer  Unesco its full support.  The meeting rose at 6.15 p.m.  THIRD MEETING
14 November 1956, at 10.30 a.m.  Chairman: Mrs. MYRDAL (Sweden)
(1) The CHAIRMAN stated that the business before  the Programme Commission was: (1) p, final discus-  sion on the time-limit for the presentation of pro-  posals related. to the major projects; thé represen-  tative of the Director-General would explain the  implications of the decision the Conference had taken  in that connexion; (2) consideration of the report of  the Committee on Reports of Member States; (3) a  statement on co-ordination by the United Nations re-  presentative; (4) discussion and decision as to the  mumber of working parties to be set up by the  Commission.  THSE-LAET FOR THE PRESENTATION OF PROPOSALS RELATING  TO MAJOR PROJECTS
(2) Mr, "THOMAS (Assistant Director- -General) re-  minded the Commission that the Gehéral Conference  had decided on the previous day to suspend the rulés  on time-limits for the submission of draft resolutions  and amendments with budgetary implications, The  relaxation applied exclusively to proposals relating to  the three major projects. ' The Conference had asked  for the views of the Programme Commission before °  deciding on the new flhal date fér the submission of  draft resolutions and Mr. Thomas thought that a
316  reasonable one would be the evening of Friday, 16  November,
(3) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) secohded that proposal.
(4) Mr. REIMERS (Federal Republic ef Germany) ‘  asked whether the new time-limit was restricted to  proposals concerning the three major projects; he wis  under the impression that the new ruling had a more  general character.
(5) Mr, THOMAS (Assistant biréctor-Genéral) éca,  firmed that the Japañese motion adopted by the plenery  meeting of the Conferéncé referred only to draft reso-  lutions in connexion with the three major projects,  So far as the proposals appearing in the Annex to  document 9C/s Corrigendum 1 were concerned, any  delegation was entitled to take them ip on its own  account and submit them fo the Programmé Cominis-'  sion, and it would be helpful to fix a final date for  delegations to announce their intention of doing so.
(6) Mr. RAADI (Iran) thought that, if there were still  any doubt about the force of the Japanese motion ‘©.  adopted in plénary meeting the previous day, it was for  the General Coinmittee to settle it. He agreed with  Mr. Thomas that it would be well to lay down à final   PROGRAMME COMMISSION IV-3  dats for the submission of proposals in connexion with  the projects contained in the Annex to Corrigendum 1  of the proposed programme and budget,
(7) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) asked what form should  be followed in presenting motions to reactivate pro-  jects contained in the Annex,
(8) Mr, THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) sug-  gested that delegations simply submit notes to the  Chairman indicating the parts of the Annex they wished  to propose in their own names.
(9) The Programme Commission decided to recom-  mend to the General Committee the new time-limit of  the evening of 16 November.
(10) Mr. FLORKIN (Belgium) asked for a time-limit  to be fixed for the introduction of motions reviving  projects in the Annex to document 8C/5 Corrigendum 1.
(11) The CHAIRMAN declared that the kind of pro-  posals the Belgian delegate had in mind would be  accepted until the end of the week, 16 November, She  called upon the Rapporteur of the Committee on Re-  ports of Member States.  KÉFORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON REPORTS OF MEMBER STATES  ON ITEMS 17.1 AND 17.2 OF THE AGENDA (document 9C/PRG/2)  {12) Mr. BRUNSVICK (France) (Rapporteur of the  Committee on Reports of Member States) read out the  main passages of the report and directed the Commis-  sion's attention to certain comments to which the  Committee attached special importance.  Regarding the execution of Unesco's programme in  Member States, it was to be noted that good results  had been achieved in respect of regional conferences,  seminars, round-table discussions and meetings, and  , of active collaboration with Unesco in Technical Assis-  tance and direct ald projects. Participation by Mem-  ber States in Unesco's programme had even led to  improvement in certain administrative systems at-the  national level, _  The Committee regretted, however, that Member  States did not ‘sufficiently emphasize the value, from  the point of view of international understanding and co-  operation, of the Technical Assistance or aid afforded |  them. Yet it was essential for the Member States so  sided io make à greater eftort to ‘develop a true spirit  of understanding at the international level,  Régarding expert missions, many reports drew  attention to the need to increase the proportion of aid  and Technical Assistance given in the form of equip-  ment, without which full value could not be obtained  from ‘the services of the’ experts sent.  While noting that there were éertain resolutions on  which most reports were silent, ‘the Committee was of  opinion that that did not mean that no effort had been  made by Member States in connexion with them, Indeed  Certain countries which at one time were experiencing  difficulty in carrying out a given part of the programme  ad been known to devote considérable effort to its  implementation in succeeding years,  The Committee further pointed out thai the move-  ment towards fuller co-operation by Member States in
317     carrying the programme into effect had brought with  it a parallel evoliition in the rôle of National Com-  missions and an iuicrease in their responsibilities -  notably for the effective implementation of certain  parts of the programme over and above their advisory  and co-ordinating functions, - -  Nevertheless, the role of National Commissions  and their secretariats was still too illi-defined and  accordingly, to facilitate the execution of Unesco's  programms at national level in each Member State,  the Committee suggested that the Conference ask the  Director-General to draw up a work plan for Member  States based on the possibilities of action available to  National Commissions, As an experiment, the Con-  ference might ask the Director-General to suggest,  for the execution of a limited number of resolutions,  certain distinctive methods which could be applied in  certain categories of countries. The Director-General  could be asked to report on that new procedure to the  next session of the Conference.  Mr, Brunavick stated that he had confined himself  to general comments and would hold over his account  of the Committee's views on the individual chapters  of the programme until those items came up for dis-  cussion by the Programme Commission,
(13) The CHAIRMAN thanked the Committee and its  Rapporteur. She considered the new co-operation  between the Committee and the Programme Commis-  sion most promising. She then called on the United  Nations representative,  STATEMENT BY THE REPRESENTATIVE OF THE UNITED NATIONS
(14) Mr, HILL (United. Nations) was gure the Com-  mission was aware that the relations between  Unesco's work and that of the United Nations in the  economic, social and human rights fields were parti-  cularly close, Most of the United Nations socio-  economic and human rights programmes depended on  Unesco's participation. United Nations and Unesco  - operations were interlocked at the headquar  regional levels, A joint Unesco- ECAFE (E br  Commission | for Asis and the Far East) dem had  been held twd months previously in Bangkok on  urbanization problems in Asia, Co-operation was no  less intensive between Unesco and the Economic  Commissions for Latin America and Europe, The  United Nations had s special interest in Unesco's work  for the extension of free and compulsory primary  education. The Economic and cial Council had  agreed, in relation to world needs in the social field,  that that was one of the highest pricrities for interna-  tional action, In thé preparation of, its second report  on the world social situation, the United Nations was  impressed by thé substantial progress in warld school  enrolment; in 1955 the figure was ut lesst 20 per .  cent higher than in 1950 in spite of thé large increase  in the absolute size of the achool- -age population.  Many educational problems remained to be solved,  but the general trend was very encouraging and would  inspire Unesco to further efforts, such as the promo-  tion of primary education in Latin America through  teacher training,  Research on the'arid zones - another major project -  was also of direct interest to the United Nations and   Iv-3 PROGRAMME  closely related to the Economic and Social Council's  programme on the development and utilization of  water rescurces, Unesco was giying particular atten-  tion to the social aspect of technological change; the  United Nations had hoted with interest the progress  made in the establishment of a Research Centre in  Southérn Asia and was eager to see the work of the  Centre co-ordinated with that of ECAFE and of the  Regional Social Affairs Unit, - Economically less-  developed countries faced obvious needs for trained  personnel; training in social sciences was equally  fundamental and the United Nations welcomed Unesco's  work in that field,  Close co-operation and consultation between the two  Secretariats were working smoothly and efficiently,  The United Nations was appreciative of the procedure  adopted by the Director-General of submitting his  biennial proposals to the Secretary- General for com-  ment and suggestions - thus promoting good co-  ordination, In the programme before the Conference,  many United Nations suggestions had been taken into  account, The Secretary-General was interested in the  promotion ‘of co-ordination among all the members of  the United Nations family, The Fconomic and Social  Council ani the General Assembly had responsibilities  for ensuring such co-ordination; for their discharge  they relied heavily on the Administrative Committee  on Co-ordination.  The Genèral Assembly and the Economic and Social  Council wished to ensure greater concentration of  efforts and resources on matters of major importance,  as shown by the Council's successive recommenda-  tions; Non-essential activities were being eliminated  from United Nations programmes in favour of major  tasks; the same was true of Unesco. The Council  had recommended to the Specialized Agencies, and  requested the United Nations Regional Ecoriomic Com-  missions "to pay special attention to further concen-  tration of their activities on major economic,’ social  and human problems, as might be appropriate , and to  the more efficient co-ordination of the safd activities,  and to include à special section thereon in their re-  ports to the Council", ‘The Secretary-General would  put forward, i at the next summer session, his own  proposals for‘ further concentration of the United  Nations ‘social and’ economic pi rogrammes.  The second : oF trend of She ‘Gerieral Assembly  and of the Economic and Social Council was to ensure  due integration of economic and social activities.  Community development, industyialization, develop-  ment and conservation of water resources, urbaniza-  tion and the economic applications of atomic energy  had benefited by | that. trend, The General Assembly  had conceived a "concerted programine of practical  action in’ the adcial field". Co-ordination, in earlier  years, meant a miltable division of responsibilities,  the avoidance ot duplication, and good working arrange-  ments; the teri now implied a considerable degree  of concerted aétion; which, to be practicable, required  a good deal of flexibility in the programmes of the  participating, organisations, Unesco - with a major  part to play in almost all those concerted efforts -  had always been most helpful,- The Sécretary-General  welcomed the clarification undertaken, under the  auspices of the Administrative Committee on Co-  ordinetion, of the concept of community development  and fundamental education. That clarification would    COMMISSION  lead to more effective assistance to governments in  economic and socipl development. The Economie ‘  and Social Council had requested the Secretary-  General to make "recommendations for concerted  international action for the promotion of community  development"; he was counting heavily on Unesco  for help.  The Secretary-General and the Director-General  had reported the previous spring to the Economic and  Social Council on teaching about the purposes, prin-  ciples and activities of the United Nationa; govern-  ments and non-governmental organizations had been  called upon to assist in furthering it in schools and  colleges. Unesco had to bear the primary respen-  sibility for that action, whose fundamental importance  needed no emphasizing.  ESTABLISHMENT OF WORKING PARTIES (document 9C/9, Add.1)
(15) The CHAIRMAN thanked Mr, Hill for his com-  munication and ‘opened the discussion on document
9C/9 Addendum 1, She said it was evident that a  large working party would be needed for the major  projects; the Commission agreed with her.  The Commission also agreed on a working party  for the definition of Fundamental Education, and on  a smaller one for recommendation (f) in the document  (History of the Scientific and Cultural Development  of Mankind).
(16) Mr. THOMAS (Assistant Director-General) said  that the Secretariat was in favour of setting up a  special working party for the project on the History  of the Scientific and Cultural Development of Mankind.  However, it might be better for the working party  not to be formed until there had been a general dis-  cussion of the cultural activities programme, to give  it some pointers as to the lines on which it should work,
(17) The CHAIRMAN explained that the Commission's  decision concerning that working party was one of  principle; its creation, however, would be deferred.
(18) Mr. WEEDEN (Australia) pointed out that it  would be very helpful for the smaller delegations if  the Comniission took an immediate decision on all  working parties.
(19) Mr, FRANCOIS (France) thought it would be  better to set up the working party for the History of  the Scientific and Cultural Development of Mankind  as early an possible, as the report would have to be  discussed by the Commission.
(20) Mr, de BERREDO CARNEIRQ (Brazil), as  President of the Commission for a History of the  Scientific and Cultural Development of Mankind; was  also anxious that the working party should he formed  quickly, He hoped members of the Commission  would acquaint themselves with document 9C/PRG/9.
(21) Mr, CALO (Italy) seconded the proposal made  by the representative of France.
(22) The Commission approved the principle of setting  up the working party.
(43). The CHAIRMAN pointed out thit the working  parties recommended under items (a) and (b) of the  document could be combined into one; the one under  item (c) could perhaps be dispensed with.
(34) Mgr MAROUN (Lebanon) repeated his proposal  of the previous day for the cc.abination of the first  two working partios.
(35) Mr, TUNCEL (Turkey) pointed out that Unesco  had already conducted several exhaustive studies of  the question of Fundamental Education and there were  excellent documents on the subject in exiatence. He  was therefore unable to see what would be the use of  forming a working party for the purpose of redefining  Fundamental Education and drew attention to the  danger that a plethora of working parties might make  the Commission's task more difficult.
(26) Mr, BENDER (Netherlands) supported the setting  up of à working party under item (e), as recommended  by the Executive Board. In his opinion it would be  very useful to discuss anew the whole question of  Fundamental Education, - At first it had been con-  sidered a separate discipline; now it was recognized  as part of community development,
(27) Mr. HUNT (United States of America) thought it  logical and consistent to combine the working parties  envisaged urider items (a) and (b).
(28) Mr, ESTABLE (Uruguay) said that, in view of  the many difficulties besetting the Commission in its  work, it was necessary in his opinion that the working  parties be open to any delegate desirous of serving  on them.
(20) The CHAIRMAN recalled that the decision of the  Commission was one of principle only; the question  raised by the delegate of Uruguay would be considered  at the afternoon meeting.
(30) Mr:- RAADI (Iran) was in favour of combining  the working parties for items (a) and (b) but trusted  that the combined working party would include ex-  perts in both the questions to be dealt with,
(31) Mr. MARTINEZ -VIADEMONTE (Cuba) ¢3reed  with Mr. Estable's view. He also had a practical  suggestion to make, namely that the existence of the  working parties should not prevent the setting up of  other sub-commissions to study specific points which  might arise during the discussions.
(33) Mr. SOEBROTO (Indonesia) declared that he was  py combining the working parties under items (a)
(33) The CHAIRMAN put the matter to the vote.
(34) The Commission decided by 38 votes to 13, with  § abstentions, to combine the two working parties.
(38). Mr. AWAD MOHAMMED (Egypt) eaid it had been  the fr~ctice of the working parties to allow a delegate  particularly interested in a certain question to attend  their meetings without the right to vote. He
319  expressed the hope that that practice would be  contimued,
(36) The CHAIRMAN assured the Commission that no  restraint would be placed on attendance at the working  parties, and that all delegates would be very welcome  at their meetings.
(37) Mr, MARTINEZ VIADEMONTE (Cuba) said he  was not clear whether his proposal about sub-  commissions to study apecific points arising during  the discussion, independently of the working parties,  had been accepted or not. He would also like to know  whether any decision had been reached about the final  paragraph of document 9C/9 Addendum 1.
(38) Mr,-BRUNSVICK (France), speaking as Rap-  porteur of the Committee on Reports of Member States,  indicated that he might have a proposal to make on  that point.  ITEM 9 OF THE AGENDA : CONSIDERATION OF PART fl OF THE  PROPOSED PROGRAMME AND BUDGET FOR 1957-1958 (documenta
9C/5 and Addenda and Corrigenda) — GENERAL DISCUSSION (continued)
(39) Mr. NORMANN (Norway) said that, as Honorary  President of the International Theatre Institute, he was  going to plead the cause of the arts and to draw atten-  tion to the essential rôle they should play in modern  social and international life. In a report which  appeared in document 9C/5: Addendum 2, the Norwegian  National Commission had expressed its desire that the  arts should figure more largely in Unesco's programme  and had asked for increased assistance to non-  governmental organizations ir general and more parti-  cularly to the International Theatre Institute. The  Norwegian delegation would not move for an increase  in the budget allocation but trusted that the appropria-  tion of $25,000 budgeted for the Institute would be  maintained,  Mr, Normann drew the Commission's attention to  draft resolution 9C/DR/57,' submitted by Norway,  Denmark and Yugoslavia, ‘inviting the Director-General  to convene a small committee to explore; in éollabora-  tion with the Secretériat; the possibilities of increas-  ing existing subventions and concentrating such subven-  tions on a limited number of activities, He also drew  attention to another draft resolution (0C/DR/86), sub-  mitted by Norway, Finland and Yugoslavia, asking for  the inclusion, under thé major project on mutual  appreciation of Eastern and Western cultural values,  of the proposal made by the First World Theatre Con-  ference, which met in Bombay in October 1056, for  the foundation of a Theatre Faculty under the auspices  of the International Theatre Institute. No major budget-  ary repercussions were to be anticipated but it would  be helpful if the Programme Commission was sym-  pathetic to the idea of establishing such a faculty.
(40) Sir Kenneth CLARK (United Kingdom) heartily  supported the East-West cultural project. Many  people felt, however, that in spite of the very careful  planning it had received,’ the project was a little vague,  particularly with regard to the notions of "East" and  "West". The former could be divided into Far East,  Moslem East and Indian East; the West could be   IV-3 PROGRAMME  divided into the Germanic North and the Roman South.  Fifty years ago, the distinction between East and  West would have been purely technological - and the  East would have agreed, - That distinction was no  longer valid and; in any case, it was not within -  Unesco's competence. Nowadays, it was ideas and  states of mind that were the fundamentals of the dis-  tinction, and Europe should be celebrating the 2, 500th  anniversary of Pythagoras, who had given it the basis  of its spiritual policy. The greatest writings of the  East were things that could not be placed in categories  at all, Between the East and the West there had been  a subtle interpenetration, and exchanges between  those cultures should take into account the occasions  when they come to each other's rescue, The  Western 1d was indebted to Greece for some of the  greatest writings on the Buddha, and when the West's  mind and passion for measuring was handicapped by  Roman mumerals, the means of giving full play to that  passion had been ‘supplied by India, the origin of  "Arabic" numerals, Accelerating the process of East-  West interpenetration was a valuable contribution to  world culture, but it was necessary to make quite sure  of exchanging that which was needed and could be  assimilated, - Much of value had already been achieved  in that field, such as the translations by Western  scholars of Eastern writings. Conversely, Indian  scholars had translated many Western works, The  United Kingdom delegation thought the vast expenditure  of labour and money required for an Encyclopaedia of  Asia should, insiead, be concentrated on an encyclo-  paedia of the various religions, - A survey of Indian  and Persian art was necessary, but could be under-  taken only with the help of Unesco or government  funds. The United Kingdom delegation commended the  proposal that Unesco should co-operate in a collection  of photographic reproductions of sculptures and other  works of art for the use of schools all over the world.  Artists were aware of what needed to be assimilated;  W.B. Yeats, T,S, Ellot, ‘Ezra Pound and many other  poets had studied and been influenced by Indian  philosophy. The best means to-achieye the desired  exchanges were cheap editions , school textbooks and  clagsroom materials to instil the “one world" concept  in childrenis minds and to abolish prejudice. Truth  should be told in school- books and Unesco was. the beat  assessor of truth and the best organizer of the pro-  cess - a long-term undertaking, With regard to the  East-West cultural project, he thoüght the public  would weicome popular editions of serious works and  would not be discouraged by intellectual projécts.  Books on individual momments, like the French books  on cathedrals, should be printed, and the production  of art films éncouraged, Exhibitions of works of art  should be organized, even if their cost was often high.  Finally, Unesco might perhaps use its influence to  get the United States of America and India to ratify  the Convention on the importation of cultural materials.
(41) Mr. NANNETTI (Organization of American States)  said that OAS was most anxious to co-operate with  Unesco in all matters concerning education, science  and culture in thé Western Hemisphere. There had  already been such co-operation between the two bodies  for some time past, and Mr, Nannetti rejoiced at the -  successes achieved of late years, The agreement  between the two Organizations had beer sighed in 1950    COMMISGION  and was most helpful to Unesco ard OAS alike, Its"  principal clauses (which hé read out) would suffice to:  demonstrate the identity of the two Organizations! -  shared aims and tasks, and it included provisions re-  garding joint action, co- operation, oto, From the  moment of its signature, great progress had been made  and he thought theré was scope for going further in the  programme fo: 1957-1958, For sixty years past, the  Organization of American States had been an active  factor for peace and co-operation in’the Western Hemi-  sphere, It had settléd many probléms of international  law, and the Treaties of Chapultepec and Rio de.  Janeiro guaranteeing peace in the American continent  were its work, OAS had a permanent Council consist-  ing of Ambassadors plenipotentiary of its Member -  States, with parity of status and with no right of veto,  OAS's inter-American activities had included projects  in agriculture, statistics, child welfare and history.  The Pan American Union conducted ita activities through  the Departinents of OAS, and the Organization main-  tained rural schools, experimental training centres,  agricultural centres, statistical centres, etc. All  those facilities were at Unesco's disposal to spread  the namé and fame of that Organization in Latin  America, He would give specific examples later in  the proceedings. .  In Latin America there were 29, 000,000 children  of school age, of whom only 15, 000, 000 had any possi-  bility of attending school. The greatest help which  could be afforded Latin American governments ~ whose  resources were usually scanty - consisted in the im-  provement of teacher. training schools. On that account,  OAS was keenly interested in Major Project 1A. . In  Mr. Nannetti's opinion the project could be extended in  view of the increase made in the budget and, similarly,  further resources should be found to increase the funds  available, For 1957, OAS was planning to hold an  inter-American seminar on the comprehensive planning  of education, in which Unesco might take part, The  two Organizations could likewise collaborate in CREFAL.  To conclude, OAS and Unesco were inapired by the  same principles and aspirations and were united in the  defence of the freedom and the unity of mankind.
(42) ‘Mr. AVIDOR (lerael) said the programme sub-,  mitted by the Director - General was much. better than  those presented to previous sessions of the Conference.  Unesço's aims were clearly stated but the ways of} >.  achleying them did not seem adequate, _ The roblems  facing the Organization were tremendous, and concen:  tration on a few major activities was urgently needed,  The draft programme introduced a new.era for Unesco -  the decade of major projects. Much could be, learnt ‘  from past mistakes, such as the dangers of lack of  concentration and not giving each project a fair budget.  The arid zone and East- West cultural projects should  receive three-fourths of Unesto's added resources  without asking the Conference to lay down detailed plans  for the spending of the money, . Many genéral and special  activities could be turned into other major projects.  The delegate of Israel supported the view. expressed the  previous day by the delegate of France with regard to  Unesco's duty to humanity at large. In his opinion,  Unesco had had many successes except in popularity; ,  the Organization needed better publicity by such means,  for instance, ae those suggested in Montevideo by the  delegate of New Zealand: making use of teachers all
320   PROGRAMME  over the world to inform their pupils about Unesco,
(43) The CHAIRMAN, replying to the delegate of  Afghsnistan, stressed that all general aspects of the  programme could be covered during the general  FOURTH  COMMISSION IV-4  debate; but there would also be opportunities to dis-  cuss it later in greater detail,  The meeting rose at 1 p.m.  MEETING
14 November 1956, at 3.30 p.m.  Chairman: Mrs. MYRDAL (Sweden)  ESTABLISHMENT OF WORKING PARTIES
(1) The CHAIRMAN announced that she had received  notices from delegations for representation on the  various working parties as follows:  Working Party No, 1: Draft international regulations  regarding archaeological excavations and competitions  in architecture and town planning: Brazil, France,  Federal Republic of Germany, Indonesia, Iran, Italy,  Laos Lebanon; Malaya-British Borneo Group, Nether-  lands, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United  States of America, Yugoslavia.  Working Party No. 2: - Major Projects: Argentina,  Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Union of  Burma, Canada, China, Colombia, Czechoslovakia,  Denmark, Egypt, France, Federal Republic of Ger-  many, India, Israel, Italy, Japan, Lebanon, Liberia,  Malaya - British Borneo Group, Mexico, Netherlands,  New Zealand, Norway, Pakistan; Panama, Philip-  pines, Poland, Spain, Sweden,. Switzerland, Syria,  Turkey, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United  Kingdom, United States of America, Venezuela,  Yugoslavia, J  Working Party No, 3: Fundamental education: |  Argentina, Brazil, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Re-  public, Canada; China, Colombia, Czechoslovakia,  Denmark, Ecuador, ‘Ethiopia, Finland, France,  Guatemala, India, Italy, Japan, Laos, Liberia,  Malaya-British Borneo Group, Mexico, Morocco,  Netherlénde, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Pakistan, Philip-  pines, Spain, Turkey, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Re-  public, United Kingdom, United States of America.  Working Party No.4: History of the Scientific and  Cultural Development of Maakind; Austria, Bulgaria,  Canada, China, France, Federal Republic of Germany,  India, Italy, Japan, -Malaya-British Borneo Group,  Mexico, Norway, Pakistan, Philippines, Rumania,  Spain, Turkey, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,  United States of America.  She suggested that the Commission agree on the  composition of the working parties as above, on the  understanding that other delegates could attend meet-  ings and be co-opted later,  Agreed.
(2) Mr. BENDER (Netherlands) (Representative of  the Executive Board) reminded the Commission, in  view of the large membership of the working party on  major projects, that it was only to discuss general  policy and administrative problems involved in major  projects, and not their substance.  {3) The CHAIRMAN added that the working parties  would hold their meetings while the Programme Com-  mission was in session. There was no doubt that  some delegations would discover that representatives  could not be found to attend all the meetings, and the  size of the working parties would thus be reduced by  a natural process of elimination,  ITEM 9 OF THE AGENDA: CONSIDERATION oF PART I! OF THE  PROPOSED PROGRAMME AND BUDGET FOR 1957-1958 (documents
9C/5 and Addenda and Corrigenda) — GENERAL DISCUSSION (continued)
(4) Mr. JORDANA DE POZAS (Spain) thought the pro-  gramme under consideration differed from the pre-  ceding ones because it showed a concern for continuity  which had been lacking earlier. Although he con-  sidered it excellent, he had a few comments to make  upon it; he thought that it should continue to be  arradged under the headings of general activities,  special activities, and major projects.  With regard to the activities of National Commis-  sions, Mr, Jordana de Pozas stated that his delegation  fully appreciated the importance of those bodies and  agreed with the views expressed at the meetings of  European and Asian National Commissions at Aix-en-  Provence and Tokyo. It was in favour of regional con-  tacts of that sort; and wished to suggest that an inter-  regional meeting of National Commissions from the  Mediterranean area, for instance, be held, which  might help in the work of co-ordination recommended  in the programme,  Referring to the statement of the representative of  the World Federation of Trade Unions on the need for  Unesco to interest itself in workera' education, he  stated that his country had done much very good work  in ail fields related to that question, especially through  the so-called workers' universities, which provided  the basis of a humanistic education as well as technical  and professional training.