II -0 PLENARY MEETINGS  ‘NINTH PLENARY MEETING  + 9 November 1956, at 3,30 p.m, -  President; Mr, ZAHIRUDDIN (Pakistan)  CONTENTS  Géneral discussion of the Director-General's ‘report nd  the Proposed Programme and Budget for 1957-1958 (con- °  tinued); , Speeches by the delegates of the Union of Soviet”  Socialist Republics, Morocco, Austria, , Haiti, “British  Caribbean Group, France, Bulgaria, Australis, Switzer-  land, . Chile, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic and  Colombia , . … + + + 1 + 9 +»  GENERAL DESCUSSION OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL'S REPORT  AND THE PROPOSED PROGRAMME AND BUDGET FOR 1857-1986.  (conttiived) ” ES  rar  national platform In the name of the Union of = JA            ve cada  traternity; a State  longer oxièla  a ; por OF  PREG “aan 188 d  Traÿlet Russia yi ot all A; : ; reco av ion, Gary Toa  ngsd from à cheat: ‘agricultural     his become & country with an advanced socialist  Agricultural economy, equipped with the mot modern  /machinéry, In pre-revolutionaiy agricujture, '  mechanization was unknown, dyaiight animals provided  the sole motive paver, less than one pei cent of all  the traction used in agriculture was mechanized,  Today our socialist agriculture is equipped with the
106  ‘couniry!s pro
8 4 0 + 0 + + + » 106  most up-to-date machinery; 94 per cent of its’ -  motive power is mechanical, The Soviet péople  recently scored another great victory by reclaiming  the virgin lands, thus vastly incredsing our I  a odüction of cereals and other agricultuta  commodities,” > = co CEC a  Formerly in Rüsata thee quarters of the Trew  ” population was illiterate; in the Soviet Union today ‘  there 1s Bo Lilité Fly: thé country'possesses 705  highex educational éstablishiénts where 1, 865, 009  “ studénts sfudy évery year, Thé production of books  “is 11 tires greater than ih pré-révolutionaty. . ':*  Russin, and,’ last year, the {otal numbet of copies  püblishéd reached thé figure of one milliard fifteen -  million, ‘Books ‘are published in the 70 languagés of  the peoples of Wie USSR, at  On the basis of à socialist ecohomy snd nu’ =~  soclalist community, there has sprung up in the  Soviet ‘Union à hew type of culture and ideology,     inimicäl to all forms of élass, ational and’racial =’  oppression and to any kind of éxploitatibn of mda by  man, ‘All generations of Bôviet people'are brought u  in acéordance’ with thé ddcred pririciples of peace am  féiendship between nations. 1 1 CE  The Soviet pedpld repudihie the ideas of aggréssion  and colonialism,’ of ¢lass énslavement ind of the ‘  oppression of dre nationality by another. The -.  socialist economic system, the new form of human’  relations and the general outlook of Soviet society, ‘  have no rooñ for: such éoniceptionsi they dre ::- 7  contrary to the very essence of thé Soviet socialist’  + syétémà and ab stich indignantly condemned by our  - people.” It 18 stated in the bablè law of the  USSR -‘the Colibtitution - that any atjempt to preach  racial superiority, hatred or disparagement is  punishable by law.” 1 2 21 12  Socialism upholds peace and rénounces war as à  means of settling international problems. In 1951,  the Supréme Soviet of the USSR passed à law stating  that all war propaganda, in any form is injurious to  peace, creates the danger of another war and,  +   PLENARY MEETINGS  sumanity, “AN pére {1ty of Wat propaganda’ are  te be tried as dénge minals, .  “Maturblly, the ro ard by the emergence ad  “idéteriés of ihe Soviet ‘State and of the principles. on  which it is based has had a'great influence on 2  countries striving to do awey with war and the sub-  jection of nations by. a small group o privileged -  colonial’ powers,  Everyone kriows what part tbe vssR played in the -  struggle of the nations against Fascism, that epitotne  ‘in ideology and practice, o imperialist briganda  and racial subjugation, - Yaeger Wynn  - À series'of events of the utmost historical sigaifi-  cance - the destriiction of Fascium in the Second  World War, the establishment of the popular! *  democracies; the victérious revolution in China and  the emergence of the Chinese People's Republic +  have resulted in swelling the ranks'of socialism to  pearly à thousand million, striking à crippling blow.  ut the colonial system, ‘and encourdying colonial and  semi-dependent peoples in their struggle for Libera-  tioh. We are now witiessing a great vational upsurge  da Asia and Africa’. «>  “India, the country with thé world's second largest  population, has attained ité independence; independ-  ence has also been won by Indonesis,. Egypt, Syria,  Lebanon, - Burma, .the Sudan and several other ex-  colonial countries; which have made remarkable  - ‘progress in a short period.  Thus, ‘in the course of the past 10 years, more, -  than one thousand two hundred million people in all  have thrown off the yoke of colonial dominion and  dependence. The aspirations of these people, united  in the commori struggle for political and cultiral  indepéndenne, : wore expressed ii the historic : :.  decisions of the Bandung conference, Allow me to  “remind you of the unexcéptionable conclusion of that:  conference: -''The existence of colonialism, whatever  form it takes, not only hinders: cultural co-operation,  but also stifles national cultures", |.  The peoples of the East, now stirred into activity.  of historical'significance, ‘are playing an increasingly  important part. in international life and international  cultural intercourse,  : Unesco must take all possible account In its own  “ activities of the growing influence of the Eastern  countries. In this connexion, it is highly significant  that the ninth session of the General Conference,  -which coincides with the tenth anniversary of our :.  Organisation, : should be taking place in India, a great  Eastern country whose ancient civilization is rightly  regarded as. one of the sources of the culture of man-  nd as a whole, :5i-!  +The increasing importance ot the pat played by the  Raat ‘is also evident from. the fact that one of the .  projecta before the ninth. session of the conference  deals with mutual appreciation of Eastern and Western  tultural values, I have in mind the major project .  which, thanks. to the insistence of the Regional .  Conferencé of Asian National Commissions in Tokyo,  aad the Regional Conference of European National .  Commissions at Aix-en-Provence, has been included  bythe Secretariat in the programme of Unesco's  “activities for the coming two years. : , |  AH is clear already, even from the preliminary .  discussions on this project, that it offers great  térefore;' constitutes hyo drinie aguinst
107  u-p  opportunities for teaching true appreciation of :,  different. aétional cultires, and overcoming prsjosion  born of unscientific doctrines about the. ood  ’supérior! Eurapesn countries and “inferior Eustern  ones; and that it will have the further. advaniage of.  encouraging the initiative of Unesco National Commis -  sions and leading to the mutual enrichment of Eastern  and Western cultures: ::, ;. . ley an  And now at this inoment, when thy conference is -  assembled here and its agenda includes a project :  designed to strengthen thé links and improye under-  standing between thé peoples of the Orient and the ~  Occident in à spirit of respect for one another's  traditions and cultural, literary, scientific and |  artistic values; and for the heritage of past civilisa-  tions and the achievements of modern times - ‘at this  very moment, 1 say, . one of the ‘oldest’ ‘countries ¢ of .  the East, which has thrown off the yoke of colonialism,  has becoms the, vieHm of open armed aggression by  colonial powers," : i  The Governments of ‘tig. ‘United Kingdoms, ‘France  and Israel hiye ‘unleashed aggression agrinat Egypt.
1 am not going to speak to you of the consequences of  the bombardments, the sacrifices of the .peaçetul  population, the destiuction of cities and great éuliural  and architectural monuments created by the ancient  civilisation of Egypt in the course of thousands of  years, (this Lu  The sufferings of the Egyptisn : people, fighting  courageously in a righteous cause, ihaye besn we  described to you by the Typresentative of pr >  of whose proposals the Soyiet delegation heartily.  approyes, snd a by the d ele ates of various other  couriien B : pe been, attacked by threé States in  of the United Nations Shaler. I is  powers is a challenge to the whole of the.  nay more, to all the paoples | of the East strug  against colonialism,: As the prime, sier of a  Mr, Nehru, rightly : intel in his letter to Marshal  Bulganin, "This act of aggression is fraught with.  danger not to Egypt alone,’ but also to other, countries  which may no} be strong, enough to resist aggression"  “The Unesco Constitution states that it is the noble  aim of the Organization to contribute to peace and  security and, gcpue Tes. the defences of peace in the  SEER  char            aa doles it 5 of stand alog éhdeavour' to.  create a Ca ec a prio without which  no real cultures se  It behoves the 9 ço gross Re to debut À = oo  sym with, the piopl. Thème 4) oes noble, |  courageous apd | vig a ane for, ita national  independence and soyéreigniy has, won ¢ warin .  sympathy of the whole world. ‘  Fellow delegates, looking back over the io years i.
11-9 PLENARY MEETINGS  of Unesco's existence, we must acknowlodge |  that it has done valuable work as regard: ‘culiural co-  operation, the dévelopment of intéénational contacts  and exchanges of information in the fields of science,  education, culture and art, and'the strengthening of  friendly ties between the peoples of different countries,  We live in an age when the whole of mankind, after  suffering the horrors of the Second World War,  attaches particular value to the priceless blessings  of peace, The people of all countries are deeply con-  cerned with the'quéstion of disarmament, since the  armaments tracé,‘ both in conventional weapons and  in means of niasé destruction, is causing them real  anxiety for the futüre, .  The questions of disarmament atid the prohibition  of nuclear wéapons continue to disturb people the  world over, and every effort must be made tô reach  a prompt and satisfactory ‘solution of these problems,  Some people may retort that it is not for Unesco  to solve these questions, which are the concern of  speclal international agencies’ and of governments;  That is true, :but Unesco can arid must use its  authority to bring about a’ prompt and just settlement  of this problem; approaching it, “trom its own special  standpoint,” asa problem cônéerning the correct use  of scientific advances for the sole purpose of increas-  ing the welfare of mankind and furthering progress  and cultural development,  The Soviét Union, i for its’ part, ‘has consistently  advocated the prohibition of atomic weapons and the  immediate céssation of nuclear tests, The Soviet  Union was the first to begin using atoinic energy for  peaceful purposés by building an electric power  station driven by atomic energy; à nd gladly shares  its ‘experience in the peaceful uses of atomic energy  _ with other countries,  We think that Unesco, whèn planning its work,  should atrive to find,” and to propose 'té Member  States, aims and objectives likely t6 unite workers  in the fiélds of culture, science and éducation for  common purposes, and to induce the appropriate  specialists of scientific and cultural institutions in  the various countries to pool their efforts for the  benefit of the largest possible number of States and  peoples,  In this connexion,” we should like to stress the use-  fulness of major projects such, for instance, as the  one on scientific research on arid lands;  Another important ‘project 1s that which was ‘initia-  ted by Unesco's Department of Social Sciences at the  Geneva rmeéting on the economic, historical'and legal  problems of peaceful coexistence, ‘ An important and  interesting venture embarked on by Unesco is that of  preparing a basic publication'on the history of the -  scientific and cultural development’ ‘ot mankind, for  which the services of distinguished scholdrs from a  number of countries are "being enlisted, It Is impor-  tant to plan the work {à sucha way that the sévéral  volumes of this publication will stress ali the factors,  ‘past and present, which have served ‘to draw the  peoples closer together in the ‘course of their  historical development, This will guard against a  one-sided, tendentious approach to the description  and intérpretation of past events, and this practical  co-opération inay perhaps provide, a foundation for a  valuable scientific undertaking, which will contribute  to the cause of peace,
108     We are also in favour of the major project on the -  extension of primary’ education in Latin À me rica, A  important part in implementing this project can be, .  played by the Reglonal Office for the Western He  phere in Havana, which must be eupported and which  uadoubtedly offers great possibilities for co-ordina-  ting and éncouraging Unesco's activities among a  large group of Latin American countries, Generally  speaking, it would be advisable to arrange the work  of Unesco in such a way that Member States in the  different parts of the world could make use of  regional ties and co-ordinate their own work, lnsteac  of being divected entirely from Paris. .  Fellow delegates, Unesco has embarked on another  important scheme - an investigation of the possible.  harmful influences of the cinema on children and  young people, This work must most certainly be  encouraged and continued. But the problem is much  wider than this, Unesco unites scientific, cultural ,  and educatiohal workers in the pursuit of certain -,  constructive deals, and we think that Unesco should  take up the question of the use of cultural media, so  as to ensure that they are used riot for anti-social :;  barbarous purposes, but in the interests of culture  and humanity - to guarantee that instruments evolved  by man for strengthening links and understanding  between the peoples are not transformed into means  for propagating enmity and hatred, .We consider this  very important, and we think that one of Unesco's  tasks should be to prevent mass communication medis  (press, radio etc,) from being used to encourage  aggression or to justify the use of force in inter-  national relations,  As has already been said, Unesco's work, the  value of which we all appreciate, .is open to certain:  criticisms, For instance, the principle of equitable  geographical distribution is not adhered to in select-  ing Unesco staff, with the result that a large group of  countries is not represented at all on the Secretariat,  There is too much paper work and too many staff  posts, with the result that administrative costs,  already too high, are cohstantly increasing, When  correcting these defects, Unesco should take account  of the wishes éxpressed by the General Conference  at its ninth session,  I would like, ih conelusion, to thank the Government  of India and the people of India; ‘on behalf of the Soviet  delegation, for the éxtraordinarily warm hospitality  they have extended to our conference, and to greet  the delegates to the ninth sessiori of the General Con-  ference and wish them all success in their work. -  Let us hope that, inspired by the noble aims we are  pursuing and by a feeling of our great responsibility  towards all the nations of the world, our conference  will succeed in reaching decisions designed to further  our joint efforts for raising the general cultural levels  of mankind, strengthening the bonds of international  friendship and consolidating peace everywhere in the  world.
(8) “he PRESIDENT: I call upon the delegate of  Morocco.
(4) Mr. EL FASSI (Morocco) (Translation from the’  French): Mr, President, fellow delegates, ladiés and  gentlemen, we have been deeply touched by the kind-  ness shown to our delegation by the members of this   PLENARY  Conference, | should like to begin by thanking you all  for this, The trust you put in our young country at .  the dawn of its new life within the fold of the free  pations is à happy augury for its success, We hope to  continue to deserye this confidence, Our King, His  Majesty, Mohammed V, whose love of liberty, pro-  greas and peace - for which he has waged a noble  and courager is struggle - is well known, has com-  missioned me to bring you his greetings and his good  wishes for the success of this conference and the  attainment of the lofty aims pursued by the United  Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organiza-  tion,  On the eve of our departure, our delegation was  received by His Majesty, who stressed the fact that  the new Morocco expected much from this Organiza-  tion, to which we now have the honour to belong, and  hoped that it would give him effective help in rescuing  our people from illiteracy, that mortal enemy of the  human race, Two days ago I had the pleasure of  expressing to the Indian nation our gratitude for its  hospitality and the unforgettable welcome it has  accorded us; but we Moroccans are grateful on more  than one score to India, to her government and, in  particular, to Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, for  their generous intervention on behalf of our Sultan and  of our independence. On behalf of His Majesty and of  the Moroccan people, .1 wish to express our sincerest  gratitude to them. I rejoice also that Maulana Abul  Kalam Azad has been elected President of this con-  ference; his name and his reputation as a man of  learning and culture are widely known and respected  in Morocco,  And now, Mr. President, I should like to say a few  words about my own country in relation to the special  interests of Unesco, Morocco's civilization is old;  our country was the torch-bearer of learning and  science for several centuries and fts culture influenc-  ed a great part of Africa and of the Iberian Peninsula,  It is proud of possessing the most ancient university  in the world, the Kairoween University at Fez, It  provided a link between the Moslem civilization of the  East and the Christian civilization of the West, Greek  learning and philosophy, preserved and expanded by  the Arabs, were handed on to the West through  Morocco and Moslem Spain, - Arabic figures, - that  miracle of human thought on which rests all the  scientific development of modern times, were taught  to the Western world by the Kairoween University.  Gregorian music, which can still be heard in certain  European churches, has its roots in the Arab music  introduced into Spain by the famous Ziryab of Baghdad,  This classical and difficult music is still performed  in all its glory by Mordécan musicians, Much more  could be said regarding our contribution to the  common civilization of mankind, But Morocco, ‘like.  nearly all the countries of the East, afterwards fell  into a lethargy.from which it was aroused only at the  beginning of this century, The first steps it took  along the path of modern civilization were unfortunate-  ‘ly very slow, for reasons on which we need not  dwell; but the psychological stimulus provided by the  attainment of independence has inspired the Moroc-  “an people with a magnificent enthusiasm for progress  and learning, That is why it needs help and support.  Since the establishment of the first independent  Government of Morocco, we have undertaken a
109     MEETINGS u-9  tremendous drive for literacy and’ schooling, of which  I would like to give a few particulars, We began by  establishing à Fundamenta] Educaijon Service in the  Ministry of Education, We then approached Unesco.  in Paris to obtain the necessary material with which  to start a ltgracy campaign, But is our funds were  inadequate to carry out this programmé, we started  a national league for. fundamental education and the  eradication of illiteracy, under the gracious patron-  age of His Majesty the Sultan, This league, whose  zealous members set to work with an ur: jelfishness  to which I am glad to pay tribute, began by establish-  ing committees in all the towns and villages of  Morocco, All the schools were placed at their  disposal for the teaching of illiterates, and men and  women teachers, responding with unequalléd enthus-  lasm to our appeal, gave voluntary help in the .  literacy campaign, The campaign was launched by  His Majesty himself, who wrote the first letter of _  the Arabic alphabet on the blackboard in a class of |  illiterates, We were thus able to reach 400, 000 men  and women in the first campaign; 253, 000 of them have  already learnt to read, write and reckon, The league  has published a special book for the teaching of the  Arabic alphabet and figures to illiterates, each pupil  receiving a copy, To encourage those who attend the  classes regularly and profit by the teaching, prizes  have been publicly awarded,  In the new campaign that began on 7 November and  which coincides with this session of our Organization's  conference, more advanced courses are to be insti-  tutedfor new literates, for whom we have devised  something recognized by Unesco speclalists to be  unique in the Arab world - the publication of an -  entirely local paper under the title of "Manar el  Maghrib" (The Beacon of Morocco), Those who are  acquainted with the problem know how much is .  required in the way of effort, and especially of fiinds,  to carry out such an undertaking successfully, - Among  the achievements of the Fundamental Education Service,  I must also mention the mobile workshops equipped  with sewing machines and various kinds of household  apparatus, to teach country women how to use them  and thus raise their standard of living, Other work-  shop vans are provided to teach the men how to repair  their agricultural implements and increase their  output; Men and womèn instructors also teach them  the rudiments of cleanliness and hygiene. Here too,  unfortunately, our funds are inadequate to organize  this system all over the country. In order to train  men and women instructors and teachers, and  fundamental education specialists, we have set up an  audio-visual centre at Rabat equipped with cameras,  projectors, radios and recording apparatus: . This  centre produces educational films, ‘One of these films,  on the literacy campaign, was recently sent to  Unesco's headquarters in Paris, The young men and  women attending thé classes held at this centre after-  wards go out into the country with the mobile work-  shops. We very much hope that Unesco will make our  audio-visual centre into an official organization for  the training of fundamental education specialists for  the Moslem West, At the beginning of this month, we  sent about à dozen organizers to take a year's course  at the audio-visual centre at Saint-Cloud, near Paris;  they will come back to Rabat to instruct the large  number of students whom we hope, thanks to   II-9 PLENARY  your ‘ support, “to enrol-at “this: centre, |  So far 1 have been talking’ about adults, - Bût our  great problem is still thal of schooling for children,  There are in Morocco’ 1, 800, 000 children of açhoo!  age, of whom only one-sixth’ are attending school; -  Thanks to the zealous support mentioned earlier, we  have been able, this year, té provide schooling for
65, 000 more’ children than last yoar, but we are still  far {rom out goal,” What we need moat,” here again,  is not teachers, whom we ‘can easily train, -büt funds,  It we were to send all children {0 school immediately,  we should require’ 100 milliard francs; that is, the  whole of our working budgét, which is absurd, To '  mes| this difficulty, we have mide plans to introduce,  in the course of thé next five years, à systém of three  years" schdoling, with half-time" classes of 50°  children. ‘At'the end of the third year, specialists  will seléct the most promising pupils to complete the  full primary course, I will not go into the detalls of  this plan, copies of which, iri Arabic and French, we  have sent to Unesco's headquarters in Paris,’ but I  must tell you'that, even so, it will cost 57 milliards  over the five years, Our Government is to study the  plan shortly to see how far it can be adopted, 'I must  also tell you that, {i response to His Majesty's -  appeal,’ and thanks to the campaign being conducted  by the Ministry of Education throughout the country  to promote the spread of éducation, help from private  sources has been offered with the most praisworthy  faith and enthusiasm, I need only mention the example  of a region in Southern Morocco; the Sous, which has  built 500 schools at its own expense and handed them  over to us for us to provide equipment and teachers.
1 will now say a few words about secondary educa-  tion, There were hitherto in Morocco five secondary  schools for boys and two fôr Moslem girls, None of  these had a school leaving class, Since 1 October,  this has been put right and five other schools were  opened on the same date, Continuation classes have  been started in the small towns that had none before,  The plan makes provision for a great increase in the  number of secondary and technical schools during  the next six or seven years. This reminds me that !  should tell you something about technical educaticn,  which is well developed in Morocco, In order to  encourage it, I have been at pains to award scholar-  ships, - for preference, to pupils and students intend-  ing to take up scientific and technical careers, The  industrial school at Casablanca is a first-class  institution for the training of intermediate staff for  commerce and industry. Agricultural schools,  especially that at Meknes, train excellent agricultur-  al experts, We also have building trade schools, a  school of hotel keeping, a watchmakers' school,  maritime schuols, a laboratory assistants' school,  etc,  With regard to higher education, 1 ‘should perhaps  mention that, in addition to the old Kairoween  University at Fes, the vigilant guardian of Arab  language and literature, which serves as an institute  of Moslemtheology and law there is at Rabat the.  nucleus of à modern university which already posses-  ses a Faculty of Science, . equipped with first-class  ‘laboratories, and Faculties of Law and Arts. The  plan includes the setting up of a school of medicine.  A group of students! hostels, with accommodation  for 500 students, is to be opened on 1 January.
110     MEETINGS  These ‘are ‘oùr achievements in the field’ of"  education, ° :  As for or cooperation’ in the work of Unesco: r' à  must tell you that even before we became members of  this gréat Organization, we made a point of taking pa  in its activities and, in connexion with the interna-  tional campaign for museums, ‘sponsored by Unesco,  we organized an exhibition under the distinguished  patronage of His Majesty, ‘This exhibition was à  strikirig success and aroused lively interest in .  Unesco's work, We have also establishéd a National  Commission for Unesco, of which I have the honour”  to be Chairman and whose Secretary-General is the :  Head of the Fundamental Education Service of the  Ministry of Education, and a member of our  delegation, . °  On the question of our relations with Unesco; 1  should like to express a wish, Arabio, Mr, ‘President  is one of the few languages in the world worthy of -  being considered a language of civilization, - It is not  only the official language of some 10 Mérber States:  of Unesco, it is also the language of the Koran, the --  Sacred Book of the world's 400, 000, 000 Moslems, It  would therefore be just aid useful to adopt it as one:  of Unesco's working languages, This is the wish I  want to express and it would be greatly to the credit  of Unesco to accéde to it, It would thus prove itself  to be the most truly international organization,  ‘1 still have to draw your attention to an achievement  of which Morocco is justly proud, namely the experi-  ments undertaken by architects commissioned by the  Ministry oï'Education to devise a typé of primary  school which, at moderate cost, would meet the "~~  standards required to ensure satisfactory conditions  for the pupils, An international congress on school -  building was held in London last spring, and we sent  two architects to present our designs, This congress  chose Morocco and India - and this is a great honour  for us -as the countries in which'to condugt experi-  ments in the putting up of modern school buildings,  Those are our achievements, .-I will not detain you  any longer by talking abiôut our plans in all spheres  of education and culture, All I wish to stress is that  we base great hopes on your help which, in my.  humble opinion, should go first and foremost. to those  young nations which, having for a time been deprived  of their freedom and independence, have been unable  to keep pace with the movement that is carrying  humanity towards the fulfilment of its destiny of  progress, enlightenment, peace and concord, -  Before concluding, 1 should like to express the  most fervent hope that those nations which have for  the moment left the path of reason, law and justice,  may put their errors behind them. This session, .  which gives promise of great success, . .infortunately  opened In grave circumstances: the dignity and  sovereignty of a sister country was attacked. Yet:  these events should not lead us to despair, On the  contrary, we must make every effort to ensure that  the spirit of peace, understanding and equality which  obtains in our work here is maintained and strengthen:  ed all over the world,
(5) The PRESIDENT: I call upon the head of the  delegation of Austria.
(8) Mr. ZEISSL (Austria): Mr, President, fellow   PLENARY  @legates, ladies and gentleirien; as I rise to speak  for the first time in {hia fascinating city and in this  magnificent hall, i {65}, - 44 you surely all do  overwhelrmed by the flood of hospitality,’ trlohdship  snd sympathy with which our kind hosts have received  and surrounded the members’ of the General Confer-  once, A German philosopher has tried to oxy lain the  historical proçess as thesis followed by anti thesis:  and ending in synthesis, ii may fora dimen think  of East and Wèst as thesis and ‘antithesis,’ this hall  seems to me like a vivid symbol of the crowning -  ‘synthesis of the future at which we all aim, ‘I think  any sensitive person who enters this hall will feel  the happy harmony achieved, and the admirable and  great tradition which is India's, It should femind us  all to work unremittingly so as to make this symbol a  reality in ‘all other fields of human endeayour,  In expressing our deepest’ gratitude ‘tè thé Indian  people for this friendly and generous reception’ on’  bebalf of our delegation and of the'Austrian people,  whose humble servants we are, I feel boiind to stress  the sincere sympathy that is felt by thé people of  Austria for the peopie'of India, Why is this'so? ‘I  think, among many other reasons; because our  people, like yours, find one ot the deepest expres-  sions of their souls in the mysteries of music and  dance; But there cre other spiritual relationships,  The greatest and wisest man born on India's soil, the
3, 500th anniversary of whose birth India is about to  celebrate, called his teaching the "Middle Way",  Under the leadership of your great statesman, His  Excellency, Jawaharlal Nehru, you are walking this  middle way às you see it from your part of thé world,  guided by the same abhorrence of all extremism, by  the same sobriety of mind and the same love for  peace which animates our people in their military  neutrality,  Fellow delegates, speaking from this rostium to  the supreme organ of Unesco, the General Conference,  our delegation feels that this is the moment to fulfil  another duty; namely to express our deeply felt  gratitude to Unesco. This is the first time that the  Austrian delegation appears before you representing  an entirely free and sovereign people, : In this hour we  remember that you were the Organization’ which first  welcomed us as an equal among equals eight years  before we were admitted to the United Nations; and  even before we were admitted to any other Specialized  Agency, It was you who assisted us generously in one  of our darkest hours when our economy had broken  down and our schools, our institutions of science ard  learning, had been laid waste, I should like to say,  it 1 may touch on a personal point, how happy I am  that I, who had the privilege of saying the first "thank  you" on the occasion of our admission to this -  organisation in 1947, am now instructed to congrat-  ulate Unesco on the tenth anniversary of its birth, on  behalf of recovered and rehabilitate Austria, eager  to pull its full weight in the Organization's work,  Unfortunately, this tenth birthday is celebrated  amidst deep anxiety, There has even been talk of the  unreality of our doings on the brink of chaos. I think  we all object to such talk, In the long run idealists  and even optimists often turn out to be the true  realists, Let us enter, with unbroken and unshakeable  confidence in the ideals of Unesco, ‘into the second  decade of its life. It is à happy augury that, in these  MEETINGS
11-9  very days of crisis and misgiving, we have made i  further steps in the direction of universality’ by the:  admission of Morocco, Tunisia and Nigèris, ‘Some of  the speeches we have heard from our welcome new  members have already shown us how much wé have .  gained from their adherence, ;  - Let me please make a few remarks regarding some  principles which should guide our activities. We feel  that we are sometimes threatened by the danger of a  one-sided exaggerated intellectualism, Let us, In  planning our future activities, be careful not to over-  look the spiritual and emotional values of mankind,  and to promote and foster that kind of neo-humanism,  as I would call it, in which all people of good will can  join,  Another question ot ‘principle; an honourable colleague  made the point in his speéch that more should be done  for the so-called underdeveloped areas and leas for the  mass of highly developed civilizations, Nobody will  “deny the imménse importance, moral, économic, even  political, of the questions arising out of the existence  of underdeveloped areas, But let us be quite clear  about it; in the long run the help given to them  depends on the unbroken, nay, the increased technical,  economic, intellectual, scientific and - last but not  least - moral powers of the highly developed countries  and, in particular, on the unhampered progress of  basic research, Let us therefore not neglect this  important field, and let us aim at a well-considered  equilibrium,
1 should further like to support strongly a point  which has been made by our honourable friend fom  Italy, We have heard with satisfaction from the  Director-General that he is anxious to bring about  the effective collaboration of Unesco with the United  Nations and the other Specialized Agencies. There  should bé no overlapping; there should be no more  mere coexistence of all the organizations, but well-  ordered team work. .  Permit mé to make a few remarks on the question  of the programme and budget. There we find our-.  selves somewhat in two minds, We are well aware of  the financial difficulties of most of the Member States,  including ourselves, Wé have all to contrive to make  both ends meet. In most countries the financial  burdens borne by the tax-payers aré, or are supposed  to be, heavy. Therefore, we definitely cannot over-  look the question of the so-called plafond’; On the -  other hand we do feel that there are some urgent  needs which have to be satisfied, almost here and  now, We have therefore introduced three resolutions  that have financial repercussions, We hope we shall  have an opportunity of explaining what is in our minds  at another time. Here I woiild however touch lightly  on these ‘subjects. There is the urgent question of -  training young scientists in the peaceful uses of  atomic energy. There is further the question of the  promotion of anthropological research, which is so  urgent, because otherwise some important objects  of these sciences will sonn have disappeared. And  then there is, thirdly, a proper regard for adult  education which always was, and still is, so near to  the heart of Unesco,” We should like to discuss these  problems and we hope to solve them with you, with-  out raising the "plafond too much.
1 should like to express our gratification that the  important question of Eastern and Western cultural   u-9 PLENARY  relations has been included in the programme and  budget, We had an opportunity of emphasizing the  importance of this matter at the meeting in Aix-en-  Provence last May or June, and I hope we shall have  an opportunity. of explaining our minds on the subject  here in New Delhi as well. ....  The Director-General has announced that he will in  future consult the Executive Board when appointments  to the higher posts of the staff are about to be made,  This seems to be a very.satisfactory arrangement, as  the Director-General will also see that future .  appointments at all grades are made in such a way as  to redress the ..untinuing inequalities in the represen-  tation of the various geographical areas on the staff  and, apart from that, a chance will be given to all  applicants, irrespective of the distance at which they  live from the centre in Paris,  I take this opportunity of expressing our sincere -  confidence in the Director-General and his able staff,  Fellow delegates, our President has rightly warned  us to be brief, I am afraid I have already encroached  too much on your precious time, . Let me only remind  you of what I have repeatedly heard the Director-  Guneral say: Unesco is not just the Secretariat and  its staff, Unesco is and will be what the Member  States make of it in executing the programme, There-  fore, let us do our utmost, each in his own country,  in the service of the highest ideals which have found  so noble an expression in the Constitution of Unesco,
(7) The PRESIDENT: I call upon the delegate of Haiti.
(8) Mr. LIAUTAUD (Haiti) (Translation from tho  French): Mr, ‘President, fellow delegates, ladies and  gentlemen, it was not without some emotion, some  nervousness,’ not to say anxiety, that towards the end  of October we set out to atténd the ninth session of  the General Conference, which also marks the tenth  anniversary ‘of the creation of Unésco, : An atmosphere  fraught with tension lowered over the world. ‘Blood  was flowing in the Middle East and in Central Europe.  Airtields had suddenly beer closed to free traffic. In  his heart everyone was wondering whether we were  rushing towards a new catastrophe, :a Third World  War. This haunting anxiety was, howéver, tempered  by the idea of the haven of peace that we were making  for, and where'we hoped, amid the international .  difficulties which had arisen; to find, on the higher.  plane of culture and human understanding, an atmos-  phere favourable to pacification. We were going,  irrespective of political passions, ambitions and  calculations; fo join with the’ representatives of 76  other nations of the world in an assessment of the  work accomplished by our Organization, and to act -  to quote an apt phrase = as the conscience of the  world, rising above political factors and divergent  ideologiés to share in thé task of bringing peace to  the mind and to the heart of man by bridging the gap  between different cultures and civilizations,  This haven whose prospect tempered our fears was  the place where our conference was to meet, at the  invitation of India, ‘that admirable country which, with  its age-old and captivating civilization, its remarkable  development in the paths of democracy, was to .  inspire us, in the enchanting setting of New Delhi,  with hope and perseverance in our efforts to attain    MEETINGS  the ideals of peace and brotherhood, which are the -  aims of our Organization. The delegation of the =  Republic of Haiti wishes to take this opportunity af  expressing its sincere gratitude for the cordial |  welcome given by the Government and people of the  Republic of India, which it will never forget,  Many speakers, precoding me on this platform,  have brilliantly. analysed the Director-General!s  report on the activities of Unesco singe the last .  session of the General Conference at Montevideo,  and have made wise comments on the Proposed  Programme and Budget for 1857-1958, .  The Republic of Haiti has no special remarks to .,  make on the Director-General's report except in,  tribute to the unremitting and conscientious.work  carried out by its author and his devoted colleagues  of the Secretariat, who meri our congratulations.  As for the Proposed Programme and Budget for.
1957-1958, the Republic of Haiti will vote for its  adoption, Haiti is particularly interested in the major  project on the extension of primary education in Latin  America (teacher training),. which is especially  important in our eyes as it will be the first time thal  à collective, undertaking of this nature has been  organized on a continental scale. : …  Illiteracy is one of the great evils from which my  country suffers and this problem must be linked with  that of rural community development schemes, - Pilot  projects have been tried out in Haiti in the recent past  and the results, though not entirely conclusive, have  nevertheless yielded much useful information, An. .  extensive programme of school building has been .  carried out by.the Haitian Government since 1950, Th  number of rural and urban primary teachers has been  considerably increased. Since October 1954, we have  been able, thanks to Unesco's aid and to the Technical  Assistance received from the United Nations, to open  a Rural Teacher's Training Collège which will help  in its turn to swell the ranks of our primary teachers.  Unesco and our National Commission have also made  it possible for us to send several young people to the  Inter-American Rural Normal School at Rubio .  (Venezuela), where they have obtained diplomas, and  other fellowship holders to CREFAY at Patzcuaro  (Mexico); Nevertheless, we are not so much satisfied  with our achievements as eager to accomplish all that  has still to be done, . .- .  Referring to another item in the programme, we  should like to say that;: in our opinion, Unesco's .  Regional Office for the Western Hemisphere, whose  headquarters are at Havana, is doing very useful  work and should not only be kept in being but .  strengthened, by providing it with increased resource  The delegation of Haiti will also vote for the major  project on scientific research on arid lands, - whose  economic and social importance is considerable, To  solve the acute problem of increasing the output of -  those immense areas of the earth's surface which are  at present largely or even totally unproductive, would  be to render one of the greatest possible benefits to  mankind: poverty, hunger, unemployment would be .  conquered.  As a member of Unesco from its foundation in- ‘
1946, the Republic of Haiti has always given the  Organization its support and fullest co-operation; it  intends to continue playing its part in the social and  humanitarian work Unesco has undertaken, which
112   PLENARY MEETINGS  can be summed up as flows: to. lay thé foundations  of peace-in the minds of meq through education and  culture, while directirig seléntific development  towards securing the happiness of mankind, .  Unesco's educations] mission: is no lèss signitiéant  than its social missiori, - It is attempting’ to prépare  the men and women of tomorrow for péécetul brother -  hood among the peoples, by directing thé’ various ‘national  cultures towards the adoption of certain common basic  principles - the dignity of the individual arid ‘dué con-  sideration for him, ‘the duties’ of thé individual to his  social group - in order to strengthen thé” bords unit-  ing human communities and this promote the’ happiness  of our world, which we owe it to ourselves to improve,  Let Unesco; onthe occasion of the tenth ‘anniversary  of its foundation, iaccépt the fervent’ wishes of the  Republic of Haiti for the full achievement of its noble  aims and the spread of its idéals throughout the *  world - in other words; for the complete and final  removal of all obstacles to the observance of the  fundamental rights of humañ beings and the extension  of those rights to all the peoples of our planet "without  distinction of Face, sex, language or religion"
(9) The PRESIDENT: I call upon the delegate of the  British Caribbean Group.
(10) Mi; HAMILTON (British Catibbean Group): ‘Mr,  President, as [sat Usténing té the ‘debate, at some  stages reminiscent of the political debaté- in the United  Nations Genéral Assembly,’ 1 thought I was in'the  wrong building, ‘at another | péeti ng. But when my  beat warmed to the deligh, ul’ humanity of the dis-  tinguished Belgian ‘delegate, I uttered a silent prayer  that hits” ploiigh ‘would not fall into the ditch, as ¥  intended to recommend him for selection as the  Unesco’ expert admirably ‘qualified for undertaking  such a project in human relations,  Looking at the array of delegates, impressively  strong in’ ‘Humbèrs at least, 1'séem to be in thé unique  position’ ‘of being sole delegate of, as well ‘as adviser  to, my group.’ There. should ‘therefore be unanimity  in the group and ! can promise to equal,’ at least in  sound, thé delegations of greater numerical strength.  Our numerical weakness is inversely proportional to  thé strength ’'of our confidence in international  collaboration, -  it you should ask why 1 ‘have’ ‘travelled } more ‘than half  way round the’ world from the! British Caribbean to  India, losing 11’ hours of y, precious lite’ as 1 found  mygelf at breakfast thre imes within 24 hours; my  ansyet is this; My grou ould consider liseif the;  loser if it'were absént froin the ‘deliberations of’  Unesco, an institution with which its contact has been  greatly beneficial an particularly pleasurable, As an  associate project’ of sco, the Jamaica's Social  Welfare Commission has drawn on the facilities of  Unedco for expert ald as well à as for fellowships, In  return, we have’ been host’ country, to Unesco fellow-  ship holders from Pakistan, Lebanon, Switzerland |  and other territories who have an lhtèrest in our  programme of social welfare and community develop-  ment,  As a group ¢omprising Trinidad, Barbados,  Grenada, Dominica and Jamaica, we have had  manifested before our very eyes the considerable  benefits accruing from international goodwill and
1-9  co-operation; Apart from Unésco's assistanca, our  Public Health Education has prospered ‘through help  from WHO, ‘our schoolchildren receive milk through  UNICEF, our programme of Nutrition and Homo  Economics progressed considerably with the co-  operation of FAO, and recently our friendly |.  neighbours ‘of the United States of America have  assisted not only our programnie. of lé¢hnical and  agricultural training ‘through their ICA mission but:  our feeding programme for’ schoolchildren through a  generous schémé for the free distribution of butter,  cheese, rice and beans, The United Kingdon,’ “our  metropolitai State, has supported in no small  méasure our programme f for building schools,for  training teachers inthe territory ‘and in Britain,  and has assisted with a considerablé extension of  library facilities for school and adult communities,  The last is most’ {iiportant, asthe sliccess of ‘any *  literacy programme will inevitably be ‘dépendent on’  the availability of suitable reading material for new  literatés,’ Indeed, : ‘With the assistance of the Inter-  national Agencies’ and the countries énumerated above,  the British Cafibbaii can look back with considerable  pride ‘on the progress ‘made in terms of the resolu-  tions of the 1954 Unesco Conference,  Mutual’ respect and a common desire to achieve  understanding’ are ‘powerful tools in the building of  progress,‘ HI am happy to report that the United  Kingdom Pärliament has by legislation confirmed the  negotiations’ ‘for ‘a Federated British West indies by
1958 as well as the emergence of the islands in the  territory to full self-government, AU this has been  achieved in an ‘atmosphere of amity and without  resort to violence. -  But political maturity alone’ is’ “fol likely to ‘produce  the wealth of human happiness thal appears the ultimate  goal of human endeayour,’ With it- must ‘dévelop not only  ecoromie. ‘Well-being | but’ the cultural i itutions and -  paîterns of pit ng that will ‘make _civilizat] lon’ a blessing  to, and'nôt a mockery of, ‘mankind, As an emerging  nation we look forward not only to maintaining our  friendships of the past; we also seek new friends as  we assume our place among the nations of the world,  We propose the setting up of a National Commission  for Unesco, through which we hope to channel our  negotiations for assistance as well as our offers to  assist; - NE  I desire t ‘support: the Polish’ delegation in the  eet . n for a ‘reduction of Sb and                         that no Parisien  could adequately hi pléstiy session the experience  of being) présent “on 8 cha. memorable octasion, More  than ever, { a ‘gonvinced of the ‘inestimable value of  contact with people. rather than mere print relating  to the people, of ‘first “hand ‘contact with various ,  cultures ther than'c cursory, contact with their. “cant.  On the; “questions ‘of. major, projects, the Participation  programme and Technical. Assistance, I shall comment  at the appropriate time, : FE  The tribute paid tô India; ’ our’ host country, so far  appears ‘almost as exterisive as the ‘vast sub-continent  itself and, in spite of the modesty of the Indian  n dati)        a-9 PLENARY  delegation in ‘accepting this tribute, I find myself  constrained to express on behalf of the. British |  Caribbean Group a spécial word of greeting and  gratitude pot ao much for the personal comforts  and courtesies - which I immediately acknowledge -  but gratitude for her unswerving belief in reconci-  Uation rather than recriminatiof, gratitude for .  India's faith in the efficacy of inteynational çollabora-  tion, gratitude for her successful demonstration that  philosophy can be interpreted by action, gratitude  for her community development programme aimed at  lifting up the lower villagers and thereby acknowledg-  ing the fundamental rights of the common man, and  gratitude above all, Mr. President, for the message  of hope to us, a rising nation, that there is a great  potential in a nation rich in human resources.
(11) The PRESIDENT: I call upon the head of the  delegation of France, ‘
(12) Mr, 'BORDENEUVE' (France) (Translation from  the French); Mr. President, fellow delegates, ladies  and gentlemen, I ‘consider it a great honour and a  most pléasant duty, on behalf. ‘of the French Govern-  ment, to greet the Indian Government which is, ~~.  welcoming us today, How moving it is for us to find  ourselves on the soil of India, among her ‘peopli who  are carrying on and yet further enriching that lively,  magnificent tradition of culture, dating back several  © thousand years, whose. countless monuments inspire  us with fervent respect.  For the first time since 1948 - and ‘this ‘should be  stressed - Unesco's General Conference is meeting  in Asia; and I sin happy that it should be | in New,  Delhi, the capital of India, a land whose | world- -wide  influence is continually growing. I am certain that  our work in this setting will be especial fruitful  becduse we shall be in a better position, after this  meeting, to ‘understand the complexity of the problems  that the courageous peoples of this continent have to  face.  France has been’ a warm supporter of U Unesco from  its very béginning and ärdently hopes that this  Conference will be entirely sticcéssful, that is to say,  that it will elaborate an effective programme of  scientific, éultural and educational ¢o-operation, of  benefit to ‘ail the nations of the world.  That is why I fee] that certain preliminary rémarks  are indiépénsablé in the présént'cireümstances. The  General Conférence of Unesco is ‘empowered, to deal  with cultural problems, not with’ litleai questions.  That is also its traditional position - ‘tor we  held conferences before in periods of international :  tension, - We shall’ keep to that tradition and 1 Fogret  that others have not od} the same respect for it and  the same moderation. W - in dny ‘case, “flouting ;  truth and justice, have they omitted to mention the  fate of the Hungarian people, ruthlessly deprived of  théir fundamental rights? Iam the firs to deplore  the terse atingsphere in which’ our General Confer-  ence opétid.’ But it Yests with the United Nations,  not with Unéseo, to consider thé serious problems.  which are perturbing us’ ‘today, and to find just and  peaceful solutions for them,  The rôle of an institution like ours is to sèek the  ways in which science, culture and education can  make it possible for even the most diverse nations  MEETINGS
114  to understand one another, to work together and to  prepare for à world where the lightning progress of  science and technology will really be put to the  service of man's well-being and of univérsal peace,  France is thé friend of all peoples without -  exception, She listens with interest.to all suggestions  and advice that may contribute to the improvement of  man's lot, She would like to see such suggestions an’  advice proferred with the same sympathy as she shows  in Listening to them, Moreover, Francé has behind  her a long history of service to humanistic culture.’  and to freedom, She is convinced that she has before  her a fairly wide, future in the same fields, You may  trust her; she will always make a useful contribution,  in a spirit of brotherhood, to peaceful co-operation  in all international organizations. For the rest, do  not be misled by transitory accidents, France does  not fear the final yerdict of History, .,  To go {o thé heart of the work of this Geherai.  Conference, I ‘should like," without entering into  details with which I am not concerned here, to  refer to two points” in the Director-General's  report which seem to me to be indicative - one of  the growth of the Organization, and the other of its  increased effectiveness, |  First of all, there is the progress represented by.  the accession of several new Members: Paraguay,  Ethiopia, Finland, Bulgaria, Rumania, Tunisia and,  Morocco, The French delegation warmly welcomes  the representaiives of these countries to our mids},  The event I shall take as a test of the efficacy and  influence of Unesco ‘is the international Campaign for  Museums, which has had such tremendous and weli-  merited success in France and other colntries, It is  highly gratifying that an undertaking of this nature ….  and scope should everywhere have been planned and, 1  carried out not merely with competence, but with  imagination. It will mark a date in the history of our  activities. ;  I shall presently have the pleasure ¢ of making you  an offer from the French Governinent showing that,  for its part, it is determined to pursue t this path, :  This offer will relate to one of the threé major  projects submitted tor our consideration, andl  should like at this stage to make a few brief general  remarks about them on behalf of ‘the French delega-  tion,  The development of education in Latin America Is  deserving of the attention and the material and "  intellectual support of all the Member countries of  Unesco. France looks forward to the work to be .  undertaken along these lines for the benefit of nations  which have so often given proof of their faith in the  Organization. .  Furthermore, I ‘would like to remind you ‘of the _ ‘  very great litérést ‘shown by, the French National  Commission, both at the Aix-en-Provence esting  and in its ‘comments on the Proposed. Programme, CL  in the major project concerning the mutual apprecia-  tion of Eastern and Western cultiral valides,” BY 5 à  solving this compléx problem we shall,’ I'am tirmly  convinced, do much ta promote closer ‘driderstanding  among the members of the great human family whose  minds, alas, are so divided. It is because my  countrymen are so deeply imbued with {his feeling  of brotherhood between all men and races that I  would like to refer to something which affects both   PLENARY  form and sübstance, The project weé are condideting  has been called the "East-West" project, We feel that  it is not suitable, even in a purely formal sensé, to  set these two terms in antithesis as though they con-  stituted two distinct entities, for in'fact'each of them  covérs not one single culture but a'multiplicity of  “cultural and histôrica] phenomena, Even wére‘we to  accept this’ rigid division of all éxisting cultural  values into two blocks, there are between them so  many marginal fringes and so much common property  that §t is Impossible to study the one without studying  the other, How can we apply the single term, Western  to cultures so Individual as thé civilization of Greco-  Roman origin and the Slav or Germanic civilizations?  What does the concept of the East imply? Is it not °  the legacy of a tire When the West had & syncretic,  undifferentiated picture of Asia; in which the riches  of the cultures of China, India, Persia and Japan  were mingled ti a kind of radiant haze? Who could  sey to which history, Orlentsl or Occidental, belong  such pheñomena as the opening of the Siik Road or  the éstablishment of the empire of the Sassanids ?  Or, again on'the borderline, are Mozarabic and  Mudejar art to be regarded as expressions of  Western or of Eastert culture?’ Let us make no  mistake: it is true that different cultures may have  common denominators; but it is impossible to admit,  a priori, that certain links can exist between different  cultures to the exclusion of others.  It would bé regrettable if the attempt to bring  civilizations closer together - and a major project  under Unesco's auspices could have no other objective  in view ‘= should start from an imaginary antithesis,  based pn antiquated concépts: We do not deny the  cultural individuality of different peoples. On the  ontratty, we think that - as Rabindranath Tagore so  well expréssed it - the clash and confrontation of  individual cultures are to some extent necessary to  the intellectual vitality of thé peoples. But the  confrontation should hot be based on an erroneous  classification of universal values, In conclusion, I  would say that it would be better to give a different  title to the work contemplatéd under this major  project. It might perhaps be called "mutual apprecia-  tion of the original cultural values of the great  civilizations of the world", ~*~. - -  Also, in general, it may bé said that the major’  project, in ita present proposéd form, ‘does not  really aim ‘at promoting the mutual appreciation of  Eastern and Western cultural values, but only at  more fully acquainting the West with the cultural  values of the East. Yet, as pointed out in thé -  docurhent now before us, whereas fnany people in  the East are well acquainted with present conditions  in the West; éspecially in the technological and  scientific fields, they have little knowledge of the  cultural values of the West or of its humanistic  tradition. In our view, therefore, the project _  presented by the Sécretariat, while most useful in  itself, should take this aspect of things into more  serious account and should be recast accordingly.  Our contention, based on the fact that there is an  equal need in both East and West for information,  leads us to the following conclusion on methods! the  project should bé set in operation at the same time  in all relevant parts of the world, and not nn only  ome side of a hypothetical frontier between Orient
115     MEETINGS n-s  and Occident, "Such & method woiitd Fequire that à  supervisory commiitée, consisting of 10 or so world  specialists on the subject of compatativé culture, ‘  should meet'périodically, Between thesé meetings,  the mémbers should be able to trayel to all parts of  the globé, to convey genéral directions based oil an  overall plan drawn up by the committee, This ~  would 3nsure proper co-ordination of the project in  the Member States. 1 need hardly point out that the  proposed Aslan Encyélopaedia, whose usefulness I  do not necessarily disputé, is in itself a gigantic  project and could never be completed without such  co-ordination, the need for which will not, ‘I think,  be questioned by aïiy of you, The supervisory  committee suggested by the Freénch délegation would  in fact constitute the real Governing Board of the  project, and I should likè‘td'express the hope that its  meetings would speedily be followed by action, This  means, ! think, thaf the representatives of cach  nation must be not only learned and well qualified -  which goes without saying - but also sufficiently  - eminent to be entrusted by thelr’ respective govérn-  ments with the power of immediate decision a d the  possibility of effectively influeticirg the'course of  events in their own country,’ Their qualificailons  would be a sufficient guarantee that the decisions,  taken at any international discussions in which they  participated would not commit their countries in the  dark, It would be a good thing to put'an erid to the  period of pious hopes and tut{lé Fecommendations.  It is in this spirit that I submit to you a proposal  from my Government, which'is prépared to organize  as early as 1957, as part of this major prdject, an  exhibition of whatevér Aslan works of art may be  entrusted to it, no matter on how large à scale, Paris  will remove all the exhibits from one of its museums  and, for the benefit of Unesco, Will'turn it into a  Museum of Asian Arts for as long as may be necessary  to allow this exhib!tion to produce all the effect it  should. I frust, Mr, President, ladies and gentlemen,  that this offer will meet with your approval, At any  rate, it serves to show the kind of undertaking a  national delegation can give when it has sufficient  authority, ; )
1 have explained how much interest the French  delegation takes in the project on the mutua) apprecia-  tion of cultures, which it deems essential,  There is another item in Unesco's programme which  France éonsiders'it nécessary tu discuss here and on  which she’ stated her views as far back as 1946 at the  United Natloris, ‘Those Views have since been main-  tained by my country at thé Economic and Social  Council and in’ail the Specialized Agencies; we remain  true to them becaüse we think them right and construc-  tive. We are convinced that economic and social  inequalities go fat to account for the outbreak of strife  between men, The inequalities between nations are the  fortuitous result of geographical position and historical  vicissitudes, - France believes that the most powerful  means availablé for the reduction of these shocking:  inequalities; which grow daily more intolerable to =  man's conscience, are the spread of scientific  knowledge and the' extension of research and discovery;  thus new réservés of power and ôf raw materials will  be put at the disposal of all men in all countries; thus  human suffering and poverty will be steadily alleviated  by scientific action. For that reason the French
11-9 PLENARY  delegation is deeply ratified by Unesco's decision to  embark, with Saution, upon inte rnational’ action  for the furtherance bat sc ientitic Terns and urges  all governments i and all peoples to remember that the  tame diate and the distant future ‘of mankind depend  primarily on “han! s mastery of the forces of nature,  and thus on the progress. of science,  France is glad that | the project on research on arid  lands is making Ç d progress, But we feel we should  remind you that there are other projects which we  regard as ‘equally urgent and that Unesco's activitiss  in these fields should steadily e d, My country  considers that it fronts with - Br is theret ore  Chari  of the pète the results of which should help us  towards a better, understanding of the behaviour of  individuals and communities, And let us not forget  that whole-hearted collaboration among scientists of  all countries creates the practical conditions most  propitious to greater sympathy of minds and hearts  and the development of peaceful attitudes.  I fear, ladies and gentlemen, that 1 have’ trespassed  upon your attention for.too long,. yet] should not like  to leave this platform ‘without reverting to an idea  that the foremost representatives of my country have  already put forward. at. various international confer-  ences held at the highest. level, ;  France will not cease to call international attention  to the great aisproportion,. ‘which is a constant  offence to the spirit, of eo- pératiôn, between the  budgets allocated to the deplorable armaments, race  and the sums’ devoted to international co-operation  and peace, .France thinks: that ‘the Cummunity of  Nations should embark. without. further delay. upon the  path which would lead to the creation of a fund for  economic, social and, cultural co-operation by with-  drawing funds from armaments budgets - budgets  which are ruining the, dismayed peoples everywhere.  The United Nations would awaken great and glorious  hopes in the hearis of men if, with the help of its  Specialized Agencies,’ it would undertake the study of  such a proposal’; in the firm determination to see it             The Frenéh delegation, : ‘which puts its faith in this  respect in the United Nations; also has great hopes  of this ainth session of the General Conference and  trusts that it ‘will | prove as successful as was the  preceding ofie under the brilliant guidance of its  President, Mr. Zavala Muñiz, ..  “In bringing our "greetings ‘today to. the ‘admirable  Indian people, our, delegation . wighes to express its  deep gratitude for the generous, welcome and -  attentive kindness with which we have been received.  In 1951, a group of experts mét, here in New  Delhi, to discuss humanism in East ahd West, In  the concluding words of his most inspiring  inaugural address, His Excellency, Dr; Sarvepalli  Radhakrishnan,” then’ expressed a conviction which  we also share: "The spirit of man will prevail, the  spirit capable of understanding, . endurance and  _ compassion... + | We are convinced that, by its  prestige and by. concentrating its attention on the -  cultural mission assigned to it by its Constitution,  Unesco will ensure that victory of the spirit,              MEETINGS
(13) The PRESIDENT: ! call upon the delegate of  Bulgaria,
(14) ‘Mr, PETROV. (Bulgaria) {Translation from thé  Russian): Mr, Président, tellow delegates, .on behalf  of the delegation of Bulgaria let me first of all thank  the Government’ and people of India for the. hospitality  and kindness shown to.us at ‘this ninth session of the  General Conference, It ‘should be noted. that the  Conference is now meeting ‘in Asia ton | thé second  time, the previous, occasion having been the third  session, which was held.in 1948 at Beirit, It is a,  source of greal satisfaction fo us that India's  Minister of Education, Maulana Azad, has been  elected President of the General Conference, a  Our country became a Member of Unesco only this  year, shortly after Bulgaria jolued the, United Nations  in December 1855. That was a very joytul and  - satisfactory event for the Bulgarian people, who are ‘  anxious to collaborate not only with the United Nations  but with all the Specialized Agencies including Unesco,  Even before we were admitted to membership of the  United Nations, our Government was co-operating  with many international organizations, -Thus, for.  instance, in the last few years, Bulgaria has regularly  taken part in the conferences of the, International  Bureau of Education in Geneva, in the sessions of the  United Nations Economic Commission for Europe, the i  International Labour Organisation, the World °  Meteorolggical Organization, the Universal Postal  Union and a number of other international organizations,  This collaboration by our Government in the work of  international organizations'is in keeping with the  general policy of our country, which is directed [  towards securing peace and peaceful co-operation ‘in  the economic and cultural fields, The sole aim of this  policy is to raise the material and cultural standards  of our ‘people, Co  During the past. ten years, the Bulgarian Govern  ment has done a great deal to develop culture and  education in our couhtry;- practically every .  Bulgarian under, 50 years of age ‘is now able to read  and write, : Cultural, scientific and educational  establishments and institutes in Bulgaria every year  receive genérous support from our natiohal = |  Government. In comparison with '1939,. for. example,  the number of higher educational institutioris has ,  increased fourfold, . while’ the number of their students  has gone up by 270 per. ‘éent and reached the figure of
37, 049 in 1955, In the last 12 years, .over.1; 000 new  general education’ schools; 150 secondary and, .  specialized ‘schools, and 20 higher. educational .  establishments, with ‘42 faculties and 150. spéciatised  departments, . have been built and opened in Bulgaria.  In 1939 there were. 13 theatres; by 1955 the number. |  had risen to 43, The number of libraries and reading:  rooms has ‘more than doubled, having risen, by 1955,  to over 10, 000, In 1954, our Government's allocation  to the Bulgarian Academy of Science was 50 times  larger than in 1944. ..  During the last few years,. Bulgaria's cultural Links  with other countries of Europe, Asia and other .-  continents have become much more numerous, For  instance, two steps were taken in our country this  year to strengthen Indo-Bulgarian friendship: in- =  April, an exhibition of Indian art was organized and,  in September, an Indian cultural delegation visited :   PLENARY  our country, led by the Indian Deputy Minister for  Foreign Affairs, Mr, Charida, and including actors,  musicians, dancers ete, : ‘Exhibitions of Mexican,  ‘Chilean, Frérich, Italian and Swiss aft,’ drawings etc.  were also organdied in our country, In addition, our  country was visited by artists and cultural and  scientific workers from many European countries,  while their Bulgarian opposite numbers toured some  Eurgpedn and Asian countries, .  All these cultural ¢ontacts are of great {mportance  for mutual understanding and peaceful ‘collaboration  among the nations, The Buigariah Government will  contin te to strengthen peaceful ‘co-operation and  cultufal ties between Bulgaria and other nations,  In this, connexion, the Bulgarian National C6mmission  for Unesco has planned a'séries of measures which  will be put into operation in the coming years, Our  National Commission is sure of success in carrying  out all its plans because it is organized on a broad  basis and is secure in the support of the Government  of the People's Republic of Bulgaria and of all the  country's éultural organizations,  The delegation of Bulgaria approves Unesco's  Proposed Programme and Budget for 1957-1958,  subject to a few comments which we shall set forth  fn the appropriate Commissions and in the plenary  meetings, , _.
1 should like de add a tew words concerning  Bulgaria's cultiiral relations with its ‘neighbours,  which are, ‘in our view, very important for the people  of our countries, Our cultural relations and-  scientific co-operation with Rumania and Yugoslavia  are developing satisfactorily and being broadened  year by year, With Turkey, our “cultural contacts  ate only in the opening ‘phase but we hope that they  will expand, We' regret that ail our ‘proposals for the  exchangq of cultural délegations, artists, athletes  ete, with Greecè have not, so far,, met with a  sympathetic ‘and constructive résponse on the Greek  side, We consider this ‘situation to be abnormal and  contrary to the Interests of the Greek and Bulgarian  peoples; we hope, however, .that Greek cultural  efrcles will show the necessary initiative and respond  to our proposals for cultural co- operation,’ We also  trust that the present © conference will be of help in  that connexion,  paré  if this is done, 5 denstans results a be AL in
1 very few years, in broadening cultural’ relations  with those countries and in raising the ‘cultüral  statidards of their’ peoples, The’ formulation and  solution of those problems, will ifcréase and broaden  Unesco's activity and enhance. its authority.  Unesco ls one of the mos! important Specialized  Agencies of the United Nations and its significance  wil increase from year to year. The peoples of the  world are craving for peace and co-operation, and  Unesco must play an active part in securing them,    MEETINGS II-9  In this connexion, we'firid it impossible not to °  exprèss our profourid regret at the events which are  taking place in Egypt and hampering peaceful cultural  co-operation bôtween that country and other nations,  It seems to us that Unesco cannot remain indifferent  to those events, Unesco is an organization of which  most of the peoples of the world are Members; it  is a universal organization dealing with e ducation,  science and culture, This universality is the  guarantee of its successful development. The number  of its Member States has now reached 80 - a very  significant fact and, in itself, evidence of Unesco's  success, ‘  In this connexion, we feel wè must express our very  great regret that among those 80 Sfates, large and  small, there is no representative of the largest nation  in thé‘world - the great Chinesé péople,’ It is abundant -  ly clear to us all that the representatives of the  Government on the island of Taiwan cannot and do not  represent the Chinese people, That is unquestionable,  We hope that, in the not far distant-fulure, we shall  see among us the representatives of the great Chinese  people. That will be not only a happy event, but a  considerable help to Unesco in solving the problems  it has to face,  In‘ conclusion, I should like to take this opportunity  of stating, on behalf of the Government of Bulgaria,  that our country will continue to collaborate actively  with Unesco and to support all the measures the  Organization may propose for the promotion of  peaceful, cultural co-operation among the nations for  the welfare of the peoples of the whole world,  Thank you, Mr, President,
(15) The PRESIDENT: I call upon the delegate of  Australia.
(16) Sir Richard BOYER (Australia); Mr. President,  fellow delégates, before making an observation on the  report of the Director-General, I am anxiolis to say  how much the Australian delegation admires and  appreciates thé planning, organization and hard work  necessary to enable this Conference to meet under ’  such excellent working conditions. We join with those  who have ‘already congratulated the Indian Government  and the Indian _pédple, and we hope that the results of  the Conférence. will justify. the preparations which have  been so thoroughly madé,”  It is now'10 years since ‘Unésco‘ as éstablished,  and in that 10 years ‘Australians | id | many -  opportunities to work with, ‘and to ae to know, the  people of India,” Under the'Colombo Plan, we ‘have  seen many visitors from this great éountry, -Sôme  came as teachers, ‘some as studénts, We have léarnt  fiom all, but by far thé mést’ important thing, for  Australians, arising from our association vith the  countriés'aiid peoples of India’ and of South East Asia,  is our commen ‘approach to may important problems,  I may here add that ‘quite’ recently there has been an  extraordinafy rise of voluntary organizations within  Australia devoted to a coirimori interest of Asia and  our country, We are therefore very pleased to be  present in this delightful city tor the ninth session  of the General Conference, a ‘éonference which will  review the results of Unesco's first decade, and,. we  Lope, plan soundly for our future work.  The fact that we meet in Delhi, and in such
117   I1-9  conditions, is one reason for the importance of this  Conference, The fact that this meeting enables us to  review our progress and our working méthods, after
10 years of experience of international co-operation  as Members of Unesco, makes the Conference most .  important. Ten years in the history of mankind is  very short but it is the whole history of Unesco, and  we hope that, during these 10 years, Member nations,  as well as the Director-General and his staff, have  been able to learn a great deal about working together  in the fields of education, science and culture, One  would expect that in 10 years Unesco could find some  of the things that can be dune well by an international  organization in these fields, Perhaps, too, one would  hope that we could have found out some of the things  that it is very difficult for Unesco to do. We should  have learnt in the past 10 years not only from our  successes but also from our failures. , -  We belieye that some lessons have been learnt,  and that,. to the Australian delegation, ds the third  reason for ‘the importance of this Conference, This  delegation believes that the programme presented by  the Director-General and the Executive Board, and  for that matter also the Director-Generalis report  on activities, show encouraging signs that the  experience of these 10 years has really contributed  to more effective planning and co-operation,  But that does pot mean that Australia considers  that Unesco can sit back, and maintain its course  without further, self-criticism,’ We beliéve that two  aspects of the programme show’ great promise. - the  major projects and the Participation programme, .We  believe further that the promise can only be fulfilled  if the deyélopment of these aspects of the programme  can be undertaken in a series of steps. -Az.each stage  of development we think a limited objective should  be set, and careful planning for the .Achievement of  that objective should be. a ‘preliminary to action. |  This we consider to be true of the. Participation  programme, In both cases, our, view is that at every  stage we should examine our achievs yment and, unless  our progress measures up to our € © ctations, we  should review our methods of working  One item of the Director-General's ‘report calls  for brief comment - his. visits to) Member States.  Last year, in August 1056, Dr, Évans paid a visit  to Australia, It wes a short visit of a ‘few days - =  even then, "because of the ubpredictability of air | ;  travel, it-was longer , was planned - - and he was  able to visit only three our cities, It was, however,  a very important visit, for \ us, The Director-General  was able to clear up a number of ‘significant ; misunder-  standings. He was able to discuss Utésco matters ;  with government. leaders, with niembers of Parlia-  ment and with the Australian Unesco. Committees, ,  Another tem in the Diréétor-General's report,  illustrates the way in which Unescots programme can  benefit from evaluation, That is the account of the  work of the fundamental education centres, Australia  has always felt that these centres are among the most  important of Unesco's projects, because the training  they provide can be of tremendous value to a number  of countries, We feel that the Director-General. is to  be congratulated on having’ an evaluation made of the  work of these centres by an inter-agency committee  and, even more, on the way in which he is epdeavour-  ing to incorporate in the programmes of the centres
118  PLENARY MEETINGS  the recommendations of the committee, Action of  this sort must improve the ¢ffectiveness of Unesco's  programme and, by so doing, increase the support  for the activities of the Organization which, I! am.  sure 2" will all agree, is growing throughout the  work  ‘The report of the Director-General ( on the working  of the fundamental squestion, centres is a  emphasizes the need for the om and  Member States conatantly ‘to check the development ‘  of the two promising forms of activity proposed in’  the draft’ programme before us, Properly planned,  carefully executed, the major projects and the :  Participation programme can contribute much to the  development of education, science and culture in  many Member States, |  The Australian delegation suggests that the essence  of proper ‘planning lies in the determination ‘of precise  objectives, and that one of the most important ‘ ;  features of careful execution is thé measurement of  what we have achieved, the checking of what we  actually have dotie against what we were trying to do,  To return to the fundaméntal é education centres, If  does seem clear, without in ary way disparaging | the  valuable work already’ done, that this work could have  been much more valuable if, before the centres were  established, Member | States’ had been able clearly to y determine their ‘heeds in fundamental education and to  suggest ways in which those needs could best. be mel,  Because this could not bé done then, some of the  training did not really’ ‘achieve, its ‘object and some of  the trainees returned fo their home countries With"  skills and experience ‘which € could not be fully à used,”  This was nof the’ result’ of ‘arly lick of ‘effort on the  part of the officers running | the ¢ i res, 0  of goodwill on the part of Member States, It |  probably unavoidable in view of the fact that the ©  fundamental educatiof) centres’ were. established al a  relatively éarly stage in’ ‘of trait  in fundamental educal fon’ nd of Unesco But I am  sure that the Conference will agree that, ' iri develop:  ing Unesco's programm by concentratlig’ nié  major projects and by Increasing ber  participation, we should ‘tak hee  can learn trom the ôperation of thé ‘fundamental  education cénfres( The Australian delegation there!  fore believes that a’ ‘constant effort should be made by  the Director-General to’'énsure that particular ‘steps  in a major projéct | or {tenia tinder the Participation ‘  programme should ‘only’ be sjarted after the Member |  States concerned [id ‘clearly’ determined their  needs in consultation With the Secretariat and have  decided how their own activities can be closely o o   ordinated with thosé of Unesco.  Another important point ‘which emerges from the  Director-Géneral's report on the activities of the  Organization is the multiplicity of contacts that  Unesco is making, These contacts usually take the                           PLENARY  form of attendance by a representativé of Unesco at  meetings of othér organizations; representation of  other organizations at meetings convéiied by Utiesco  of visits by members of the Secretarial,” or by the  Director-General hinisélt, to Member’ States and  organizations, We are gratified to learn. of these  increased éontacts if only bécause they ave à”  reflection of the growing recognition throughout the  world of Unesco's work, ° We notice that Unesco was  members of the Secretariat. In addition the Organiza-  tion has been’ represented at an increasing numbér of  meetings of other international organizations, As I  have just mentioned, we are gratified at the recogni-  tion of Unesco's work which is implied in such  attendance, ‘Once again, however, I feel we have  here an aspect of Unesco's work which will benefit  from continuing evaluation,  People who can adequately represent this Organiza-  tion at international’meetings, governmental or non-  govérnmental, “are limited in number and almost  certainly have other very important work té do on  behalf of the Organization, We feel that it.would be  tragic if the number of meetings at which Unesco  were represented became so great that it ‘proved  impossible to send répresentatives’ who could advance  Unesco's cause as worthily us it deservés to be  * advanced. - For this reason it will become increasingly  necessary for the Director-General critically to  evaluate the contribution that Unesco can make to a  particular meeting and the benefit which Unesco!s  work can receive from representation of the  Organization at that meeting. Only when such con-  tribution and bénefit are clearly worth while will  the Organization be able to afford Lé be: represented.  Knowing the Director-General as ve do, we in  Australia are certain that such critical evaluation is  being carried out, - We hope that this Conference will  support the Director-General in any moves he makes  to ensure that, when it is necessary for Unesco to be  represented at international corferences, then that  representation will be in keeping with the needs of  the Conference and with the importance of our  Organization,  Australia regards itself as a sinceré supporter of  Unesco; It feels that the programme of this Organiza-  tion is becoming more effective as the years go by and  that this increased effectiveness results from the  tact that Unesco has never. been afraid to indulge in  self-criticism and has beën willing to learn from its  mistakes, at the same lime showing imagination in  plotting its future path, Unesco need not be ashamed  of what it has to show at the end of 10 years,  particularly since we realize how difficult is the tield  international co-opuration in education, science and  culture, Australia is'certain that the next 10 years  will, because of the Organization's willingness to  evaluate its activities and to apply the lessons learnt,  lead to even more development in man's difficult  task of achieving co-operation between nations in  education, in science and in culture,  : In conclusion, ‘Mr, President and fellow delegates,  I would say this. References have been made in  recent speeches at this assembly to current events,  which at this moment are disturbing the world, We  MEETINGS
1-9  need to remind ourselves that the funétion of this  Organization is not to’ determine thé political difficult-  ies of the moment, which may unhappily continue to  exasperate national feeling; its essential and most  urgent function is the long-term effort to find common  ground between the world's peoples in a mutual  search for truth and for.the dissipation of the  prejudices between them, This task will riot be  corapleted in a year, ‘or indeed in a generation, but  will réquire many years of sincere effort by peoples  of all nations to seek our common heritage of the mind  and spirit, which alone can resolve the issues of world  peace and prosperity.
(17) The PRESIDENT; I call upon the head of the  delegation of Switzerland,
(18) Mr, BOURGEOIS (Switzerland) (Translation ;  from the French): Mr, President, ‘ladies and gentle-  men, the Swiss delegation would like to begin by  referring to a point of procedure which it feels to be  of general interest at the outset of this Conference.  A number of the documents submitted to us deal  with the past; they are the Director-General's various  reports on the dctivities of Unesco over the period
1954-1956, Others relate to the future; they are the  Programme and Budget for 1957-1958 and its  Corrigendum, together with the comments thereon of  the Executive Board, the Member States, the United  Nations and the Specialized Agencies, For obvious  reasons, these documents were received one after  the other, ‘at different times. They have therefore so  far been studied separately and, inevitably, with  varying théroughness, Member States have been able  to analyse them, at least partially; but could not, as  they would have wished, - gain an overall comparative  view of past, present and future activities. -  For this reason, the Swiss delegation would have  liked to find in these documents, and especially in  their Introductions, some attempt by the Director-  General himself to present a more striking synthesis,  What, in his view, is the ratio of success to failure  in the main undertakings? What does he regard as  the essential causes of the one or the other? What  does he think, in particular, of the co-operation he  is receiving from the Member States?  Some of the reports wé have received have been  said, and said by the Executive Board, to be .  "unreadable" i Uareadable,: or, rather, difficult to  read they inay be,’ at least in the circumstarices in  which we have been able, or still are able, {o read  them, But if we find these reports difficult to read,  study and eyen more 80, to ‘master’, surely that 1s,  after all, because they are full of important and,  interesting material? Please do not think we aré  merely, quibbling. On thé contrary, : we feel that these  sometimes rather formidable reports ‘and projects  may to a great extent be made more palatable, How?  By personal endeavours, in, this véry place, during  the debates that are about to start in the big  Commissions. Let the Directors of Departments make  an effort to show in a practical and philosophical  manner - the two are not irreconcilable - what their  problems, preoccupations and wishes are, Even  nowadays, in our statistical age, it should not be  assumed that lista and figures speak for themselves,  that they are possessed of a natural eloquence. ’
11-9 - PLENARY:  We should like the Directors + the men entrusted with  the execution of plans for à'vast, ‘complex and magni-  ficent enterprise - to give us their yiews without  . hesitation, Some find thémselves confronted with  acute problems: let them not fear to tell us how and.  why, Thé well: deserved, confidence thet the Director-  General reposes {ri his chief colleagues. Assistant  Directors-General and heads of. departments - will  no doubt enable them to point out to delegates the  essential questions and those that are causing them  most concern,’ The so-called gereral discussion will  then proceed on Sounder lines and the study of  projects, item by item, be made easier,  Finally and above all, we trust that Dr, Luther  Evans will give us cause for gratitude by taking the  opportunity, during the discussions, to voice his -  views in more personal terms than he could do in the  documents, He will bé heard with all the sympathy  and gratitude due to him, y.  Ariother wish of ours concerns the” Chairman and.  members of the Executive Board,” Ladies and gentle-  men, you are called upon, as the representatives of
22 Member States, to study the problems arising in  connexion with the execution of the programme, But  did you not, two or three years ago; take a broader  view of your duties? You used then to meet for .  informal discussions, without documents, - without  minutes, to give preliminary consideration to certain  new tasks on which the Organization was to concentrate  its efforts. Those talks led, among other things; to  the idea of "major. projects!" ‘of which'I shall speak  presently. But if these informal talks had béen more  frequent or more regular, they might well have led  the Organization to diséern éértain essential problems  earlier and more ‘clearly, and to understand drômedi-  ately, for example, the rôle devolving upon it'in the  field of research on the peaceful uses of atomic  energy. We should like to feél atsured that our  Executive Board, in spite of the obligations Imposed  by its arduous tasks, is:always able to feel which" way  the wind is blowing and,’ ut required, to "dress ship"  or to "put the tiller over", *Now that it is composed  of government representatives; ‘has its new structure  deprived it of its former ability to act on its own  initiative? We are convinced that by showing  initiative it Would enhdnce its authority.” *775 «-
1 now come to the major projects, ‘on which we are  asked for our views.‘ They indicate thé‘ fémärkable  vitality dnd acuténess of comprehension of the -  Orgénitation that concéived them atid the Diréêtor-  General and Secretariat’ who have prepared for their  impleméntation.’ Théy are ‘märked by à’combination  of enthusiasm and réalism which ‘We find most: :  praiseworthy,’ ‘As’ you Kihow, the Swiss National ‘ ner  Commission was one of the first to ‘Tecommend the’  adoption of the project on "mutual appréélation of  Eastern and Western chltikal values"; It give its  reasons in à paper which you have read and I shâll  not repeat them, Switzerland will théréfore naturally  give preference to this projéct, But we aldo regard ‘  it as ‘demériding à a particularly high degrée of imagina-  tion arid care, ‘This session; taking place as it does  in the heart of Asia, should fnark an important step  forward in that direction;  The Swiss delegation will also wartily ‘support the  project on'stientific research on'arid lands, Its  importance has already been made clear, and its     ) 120     MEETINGS  ‘preparation seems fo. have been thorough | to a degree’      that inspires every. confidence;  . Ag for the. extension of primary ed  America, how could | the‘ ‘country of. Pestalozei fail fo  sympathize with such a project?, But,: before ‘deciding  whether jt should be approved immediately, the. Swiss  delegation would Like to'have assurance that the great  majority of the States which’ ate to profit by it are  interested to the sarne extent, and that the effort  required to aftain the end is considered sufficient, - ;  Would not partial failure; or even'a premature.  venture into so vast a field of endeavour, léadto . .  unforfunate consequences? Our, Latin American .  friends must help.us.to assess with them, during this  Confererice, how far the existing plans and the  suggested resources are likely to come up to their  needs and expectations,  . ,  They will understand us, es, it we ry to gaze wy  further into thé future and to. discern now whether the  Organization should not-logically,. at a later date,  pursue similar. work in other parts of the world. Will  it wish to do so? Will it be able. to do so with the  funds available to it? And whén?; This is a problem  that we can ne’ longer refuse to face. … . +  I now come to the programme asa whole, - The.  Swiss delegation feels that, in general, it is conceived  in such a way as to enable Unesco to carry out its .«  mission in the next two years, ‘My delegation thinks,  however, that the share taken up by general activities  should in no circumstances be further reduced. We  shall therefore recommend that the Director-General's  budget be adopted, though we may suggest certain .  adjustments, in the light of the proceedings of the  Commissions,  We should like, however, ‘here and’ How, - to draw the  attention of the Conferénée and of the Director<: :  General to certain points, Thé Social Sciences Depart-  ment has been called the !'poor relation’ of thé: :  programme, because its financial allocation is smaller  than that of the othér departments, . Howevei that may  be, we think that Unesco has a pioneer rôle to play in  the relatively unexplored field of social science, The  so-called "socio-cultural research on productivity  offers one exainple, among many, The study of the -  causes and consequerices of industrialitation might  be the subject of à major project ina ‘subsequent  programme, In general, this department; which is  so well representative of the very ébncept of Unesco,  “ should be énabled to widén the scope of its activity ‘:  and to go further in carrying out éértaih projects. We  trust that the United Nations, the other Specialized ‘  Agencies,’ non-governmental oi‘ganizations and Member  States will help it-to move towards a programme ©  based on specifié requirementsi: 7100001  : As for the Depértment of Mass Comimiinication, we  fear that‘its mission and organisation have not been:  interpreted in the mariner indicated by ‘the’ Montevideo  Conference,’ At añy rate, ‘neither the tontents “ot the-  programme nor oir own’ observations suggest ‘that =  they have, It'had been recommended ‘that a cléar  distinction be made between two sets of activities,”  On the oné hand, those which are designéd to advance  Unesco's programme by using the chief niodern média  of mass communication. But’ what is being ‘proposed  to us? A programme in which films - that basic mode  of expression and communication’ ~ do not yet appear  to have been recognized as a means of action of   PLENARY  world-wide importance,. nor called upon to play their  due part in the execution of the programme, This in  Hae} le revealing,  The Department of Mass Communicatiof's second  series of activities should be designed to inform the  public, in the widest sense of the term, of what  Unesco is, what it does, ‘what it will and what it’  might do in the future, The years are going by; .  precious time has already been lost, Can it be said  today, with more justification than two or four years  ago, that Unesco has a "good press" throughout the  world? The least one can say is that it does not have  the press it deserves, Brief and superficial criticism,  silence, indifference, and in certain cases, open  hostility, show us all too often, alas, that Unesco  has not yet succeeded in winning for itself a big  enough place in the vast domain of press and radio  comment. .  These remarks do not, of course, apply to the  excellent press service organized for this Conference,  or to the Secretariat's publications, -which seem to  us to be on the right Lines - the "Courier" is the  best example - but to the world press in general in  its various forms - newspapers, broadcasts, films  or television. Nowadays," it is not enough to exist  and to act; we must also talk, publish, demonstrate  and convince, From this point of view, publicaticns  of scientific value provide an excellent means of  enlisting the support of educated circles all over the  world,  Finally, the Swiss delegation considers tkat, while  great progress has been made as regards collabora-  tion with international non-governmental organizations,  still more could be done by seeking, perhaps in a  more methodical way, for new methods of co-  operation. What methods? Perhaps the time has  come to hold new and very extensive consultations  with non-governmental organizations themselves and  to make a systematic study of the possibilities of  action they offer Unesco, We think it would be  advisable to begin this work without delay.  These, Mr, President, ladies and gentlemen, are  a few reflections which nay have sounded somewhat  dull or over-realistic, but which, you will allow, are  constructive, |  - If we now consider the two-year period just ending  and the one about to begin, we have, -I think, some  important reasons to congratulate ourselves ‘ on what  has been accomplished, ” Figures are not everything,  nor programmes, nor budgets, And Sven the terrible  upheavals that are shaking so many tountries should  bot blind us to the work that is being done in depth.  During 1956, whose close wé are witnessing -  together, the National Commissions’ of two vast  regions of the world - Europe and Asia = werd able .  to meet and thus gain d clearer view of the part they  bave to play in the common effort, Those who were  privileged to attend these meetirigs will never forget  them, Starting from often widely divergerit or even  opposing positions, they ended by feeling that not  only the ideals of Unésco,- but also its programme  and the execution of that programme provided a  common denominator among thém and could help to  give them the wish to draw closer together and the  means of doing so. Ten years ago could we even  "have imagined this sense of world-wide community  which is thus developing, in spite cf present events?
131     MEETINGS u-g  The welcome afforded us in India honours and’ 24  delights us, The Swiss delegation yas 1gokirig forward  to this concourse, -whiçh nothing that has happened has  been able to prevent. The discovery of India provides  an invaluable lesson for us, . We knew, of course,  that our problems were not on the same scale; we  were conscious of our good fortune as a small  country, spared, so far, from the. wars and suffer  ings of modern times. But hers and now we are  witnessing in action this great country, which has to  solve problems that are immense as compared with  ours, We admire the traditional wisdom by which it  is guided, its faith and courage, the dual inspiration  it draws from its sense of nationhood and from its  gense of international fellowship, Thus it is that in  our hearts, as in New. Delhi, two currents of  gratitude flew together and mingle: gratitude towards  India and gratitude towards Unesco,
(19). The PRESIDENT: I call upon the delegate of  Chile,
(20) Mr, VASSALLO ROJAS (Chile) (Translation  from the Spanish): Mr, President, fellow delegates,  when, at Montevideo in November 1954, we accepted  with such delight the cordial invitation of the  Government of India to hold the ninth session of the  General Confererice of our Orgariization in New Delhi,  we knew beforehand that thé session would be taking  place in a country with a free spiritual atmosphere,  where the history of man and his most notable  cultural achievements are inseparably intermingled  with the history of the East and, in particular, with  the progress of this people, abouriding in exceptionally  lofty human values. Though it may seem superfluous  to say this again, I think we should pause for a  moment to reflect that our. international discussions  draw their highest inspiration from that store of  marvellous images and ideas bequeathed to the world  by Gandhi as an unforgettable lesson of moral  grandeur and intellectual nobility,  We Chileans come from the opposite side of the  globe, but our Government wished to be represented  at this Conference - among other reasons - in order  to make it clear in particular to the people and  Government of India that the ideals of peace, freedom,  progress and social justice by which Unesco's work is  inspired are thoroughly familiar to us, and that it is  our hope that they will steadily growin strength, We  feel'certain that this hall in New Delhi is particularly  fitted to'be the scene of the most serious efforts to  eradicate those negative factors ‘which impede the  progress of mankind, ;  Nothing is more essential to the success of our  discussions than an atmosphere of broadniinded  sincerity, That atmosphere abounds in India, ‘and  few things could be more gratifying to a Latin ©  American than our present realization that in the :  range of activities involved in the govérnment of à  country, India displays éxemplary consistency and >  rectitude, encouraging to all individuais and nations  that are eager for the greater dignity of the individual,  For these reasons and for many others which I could  mention, the country in which this ninth session of, :  the General Conference is béing held has earned the  respect and sincere esteem of all truly democratic -  nations, which recognize, among other noteworthy   n-9 |  features, the moral worth which enables this people  ‘to give cledr ‘expression to what; “at  it ‘considers to be the truth, or the truth as it sees it,  although this may: give rise to passing and not  unnaturc | misundérstandings,  For two years out National Commission has been  closely following the development, ‘expansion ‘and  improvement of Unesco, We must express our  unreserved satisfaction with the work done by ‘the  .Executiv: Board, ‘and by Dr," Luther Evans, the  Director-General, and his éfficient-colleagues, There  can be no doubt that, ‘despite limited funds, this work  has been profitablé and praiseworthy, Chile, as a  Member State, wishes to say that during the two =  year period 1958-1956, our National Commission has  received from Unesco a steadily increasing measure  of support in its efforts to stimulate educational and  cultural activities and, more especially, -to'organize  and encourage in our country research on marine  biology, nuclear physics and social scieriée, :  We realize, of course, that Unesco, like all human  organizations, has to resort to improvisation and  does not always have sufficient opportunity tor  reflection; Chile would like the Unésco authorities -  the Executive Board and the Director-Geriéral - to  bring about rauch greater decentralization in the  work, so that thé needs of the various geographical  regions ay be dealt with with greater efficiency  and dispatch, There should be closer and more -  effective co-ordination between technical assistance  as dispensed by Headquarters in Paris, and the  regional centres, so that the available material, -  technical and human resources may be put to better  use, | It should be possible to avoid duplication of  effort or mutual ignorance among the different  organizations and other bodies with which Unésco  works, though we are bound to recognize that such  defects are only to be expected in an institution which  has not yet reached full development or maturity.  In our opinion, ‘this process of improvement is closely  affected by the problein of the. perpetual shortage of  funds, which are manifestly, inadequate, Our  delegation therefore appeals to governments not to -  grudge a larger contribution to Unesco's lotty aims  of peace and universal harmony, © J  “The Proposed Programme for 1957- 1958 seems to  us to be extremely acceptable, The basic aim could  only be to concentrate the greatest possible effort  on a few major projects, calculated to stimulate -  and to appeal to’ international opinion and to wish the  support of. ‘Member States, ‘In the long run, the.  policy of attempting to deal with a great number of °  problems can result only in attacking their fringes’  and such action may, moreover, incur criticism ’  prejudicial to a fair assessment of the general work  of the Organization, - “-  That being so, what criterion should be applied  in the selection of the major projects? The answer.  is to be found ih the principles laid down in Unesco's  Constitution and, from that point of view,’ éven though  we may be regarded as an interested party, we think  there can be no doubt that the measures proposed in  the programme for the next two years are strictly  in accordance with the basic aims of Unesco, .  - The project for securing a substantial improvement  of primary education in Latin America deserves the  warmest commendation, , Our continent is faced with  given moment,
122  PLENARY MEETINGS  a dramatic situation as regards the cultural: standards’  of its great working-class population, especially In’  the country districts, Our primary schools are ay  instrument of outstanding impdrtunce in developing  national feeling, together with à lively awareness of  the problems and ideals of the international -  community, Latin America représénts'à group of  peoples which may be said fo have just emérged io  nationhood, We naturally realize that education ia  among the social activities that’ must be encouraged’  if we wish to make progress in the’ great task of over:  coming our serious material and spiritual’ deticieticles,  A dynamic and realistic attitude towards social :  development helps us to realize that ecdriomic and ”  political factors; together with education,” must"  provide thé basis for any well-conceived, : ‘res onaible  and constructive action, In proposirig to ‘help us in  our task of eradicating illiteracy and énriching the  cultural life of our native and working population,  Unesco has taken a tremendously significant step, ‘We  are convinced that thé major project .conceining Latin  America can rely on the sympathy of thé Eastern -  governments - already demonstrated during the present  general discussion - as those governments, though :  perhaps on a different level, are faced with similarly  serious and urgent problems, -It will, we bélieve,  meet with the same support from the Western nations,  whose educational problems are of a different nature,  For, in the last resort, we are all working to  establish a world which will know no more of such:  inequalities,’ the frequent cause of friction, conflict  and international misunderstanding, Chile, and, in:  particular, its university educational institutions will  co-operate to the fullest possible extent in this project  to provide training or refresher courses for teachers:  in the different subjects or specialities needed for the  attainment of the great alms in view, - !  The delegation of Chile also whole heartedly support  the major project on scientific research on arid and :  semi-arid lands. ‘It is obvious that'Unesco's‘én- : :-  couragement of research which will increase produc  tivity and therefore advance the well-being of thé”.  community as a whole can be ‘most beneficial to all.  The study of relations between the peoples of the  Orient and of the Occident is also of great importance  for the improvement of understanding between thèse  two parts of the world. Research on the factors which  determine the individual characteristics of these two  cultures may be of inestimable valie in drawing all’  nations closer together and establishing bonds of -  fellowship and friendship between them: irrespective  of whether or no they are Members of Unesco, .. .  Chile will support anything that can contribute to.’  spreading a world-wide appréciation of the tasks,  !  concerns and objectives of Unesco, Our country, .::  exceptionally open to the otitside world bécause of its  long stretch of coastline, .is fortunate in its special : -  disposition or vocation for grasping, with warm - -:  sympathy, the problems, anxieties and aspirations of  men and nations of other latitudes, Because many  different influences have contributed to our formation,  we in Chile appreciate and respect the achievements  and aspirations of others, Democracy, in Chile, is  not merely a social and political formula but a  constant, : rooted in the vital impulses of the nation, -  which in this way remains faithful to the essence.‘  of its historical destiny. ;   PLENARY  In the atmosphere of this country of India, instinct  with spirituality thanks to its great leaders, in this  Cosmos of the East, where the chief currents of  human thought haye met and given rise td a spiritual  structure of awe-inspiring range, beauty and depth,  our debates will certainly be crowned with success  tos degree we have never beliéved possible before,  We have a deep-rooted faith in the value of ideas and  feelings of understanding and friendship among men,  ss signifying a renewal of good faith, That good  faith, as necessary today as in the past, can be a  mighty force in the urgent and vital task of saving,  for the honour of the human race, a zone in which  -{rust and stability may rule, mightier than the reign  of fear and insecurity of which we have so much  evidence in our tragic present-day world,  In conclusion, we are convinced that, in New Delhi,  Unesco will make a tremendous stride towards the  achievement of its noble concepts and aims of  international co-operation and friendship, which  undoubtedly constitute the finest expression of the  faith and hope of mankind, coexisting on more peace-  ful and juster terms,  {21) The PRESIDENT: I call upon the delegate of the  Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic,
(32) Mr, KOVAL (Ukrainian Soviet Socialist  Republic) (Translation from the Russian): Mr,  President, fellow delegates, international co-operation  founded on equality and mutual respect, the generous  extension of the benefits of science and culture to all  mtions, the development of popular education through  all available means, : the consolidation of peace and  security - those are the fundamental concerns of  Unesco, Those high ideals are shared by all the  peoples of the world and for that reason, attention is  focused on Unesco's activities in many countries,  During the period under consideration, Unesco has  accomplished a great deal and my Government  approves the work which has been done. . :  In the field of éducation, the peoples have been  helped to extend free primary schooling, to popularize  the rudiments of knowledge, to train teachers, to .  prepare school syllabuses and textbooks, - The help  given, howeyer, is still far from sufficient, Primary  education provides | the basis for drawing people  together for the advancement, of science and culture,  Accordingly the greatest possible efforts should be  devoted to developing primary education, - We there-  fore support the major project on education in Latin  America, Unesco should also give active assistance  to education in the Asian and African countries, which  have now embarked on the path to independent national  development, but where a large part ot the po ulation  ia still illiterate, -We consider it indispensab  help those countries to train their own body of .  tsachers and thus provide schooling in the language  af the country. We must also give some thought to  Unesco's work to provide assistarice in evolving a  “written language for those peoples which, as yet,  do not possess one, My country has had much  experience in the eradication of illiteracy and the  organization of universal primary and secondary  education for children and adults, and is ready to  share that experience.  In the natural sciences, Unesco has fostered the
123     MEETINGS u-9  development of scientific research on the peaceful  uses of atomic energy, on cell biology and other very  important problems, by granting the necessary sub-  ventions to scientific institutions, organizations and  centres of scientific co- poration, Those vitally  important problems are the subject of very careful  consideration in many couniries, In my own country  radio-isotopes are being used on a large scale in  medicine, industry and agriculture, , We think it  essential that the Department of Natural Sciences  should, through its contacts with National Commissions  and by means of its specialized publications on these  questions, -make the expérience acquired in that field  available to other countries,  Although Soyiet Ukraine has no arid lands, ‘Unésco!s  major project concerning scientific’ research on such  lands has aroused keen inferest in our country, The  Republic's Academy of Science, our universities and  mining schools, are carrying out extensive scientific  work connécted with irrigation; they have highly  qualified staff available and could give assistance in  dealing with hydrological and hydro-geological  problems, The Central Asian republics of the Soviet  Union, such as Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan and  Kazakhstan, have wide experience of the problems of  irrigating arid zones, where desert lapds have been  made fertile, . Indeed, at the present moment large-  scale work on these lines is being done there, It  would be extremely useful if special popular science  films, ‘dealing with the Soviet Union's experience in  the use of arid lands for agriculture, were produced  during the implementation of this major project,  As regards the soclal sciences, we consider it  necessary that Unesco should pay more attention to  the questions of developing mutual understanding .  among the nations, and improving social and economic  conditions, particularly in the countries which have  only recently gained their national independence, and  also to the nations' efforts to consolidate peace and  security and promote peaceful coexistence. The  Organization should also make every possible effort  to carry out, the project on mutual appreciation of the  different nations cultural values, ...  <I fully endorse the remarks’ made to the Conference  by our honoured’ President, Maulana Azad, India's  Minister of Education, concerning thé necessity o  reducing Unésco's administrative’ costs as far as  possible and using the funds thus saved for the actual  execution of the Organization's important, projects. ‘  We think that Unesco's various Departments should  keep in fouch and establish closer, relations with the  National Commissions, ‘enlisting ! their seryices for  the elaboration of, special programmes and projects.  The Ukrainian Sovi t ‘Socialist Republic is one of the  younger members "Unesco. In order to ensure the  more effective implementation’ of Unesco's Ideas,  a National Commission for Unesco was set up in the  Republic in:1956, "Unesco's activities and publica-  tions arouse very . keen interest among large sections  of the Ukrainian population, :  Gentlemen, the victory of socialism in our country  has had an enormous influence on the history of our  State and on the fata of ur people, The Ukraine, with  its 42, 000, 000 inhabitants, which, up to the great  October Socialist revolution, suffered from social  and national oppression, from economic and cultural  backwardness, now has a highly developed economy   n-9 PLENARY MEETINGS  and culture,” Our Republic has completely done away  with that bitter heritage of the past, adult illiteracy,  or near-illiteracy, ‘Nowadays, school attendance is .  compulsdfy for seven yeärs'in Ukrainian villages and  for ten yedrs in ‘provincial centres and cities, By
1960 secondary education; extending over 10 years,  will bé générally introduced, --  In 1956," the Government of the soviet Ukraine  allottéd 56 | percent of the national budget for social  and cultural needs;' The steady rise of government  appropriations for. national education énables us, from  year to yéar, ‘to bliild mor'é schools and other institu-  tions for children, to‘add considerably to their  educational equipment and literature, to train and  maintain the teaching staff, and to provide pupils with  textbooks ete, iri their mother tongue, The Soviet  system of educating and training the younger genera-  tion {s Inäptréd by lofty humanistic ideals and respect  for all nations - large ‘and small, Great attention is  also paid in ry country td the education of young  working people, To ensure the training of this section  of the population, our Republic has specially  organized f; 320 urban and 2, 808 rural seven-year  secondary schools, where the young people can  benefit by free secondary education without discontinu-  ing their work,  In the Soviet Ukrathé- there is an éxtensive network  of higher educational establishments, ‘Over 365, 000  students are undergoing instruction in 134 of these  establishments. ‘Thé anhual output of qualified  specialists from these institutes is over 40, 000 -  engineers, -agronomists,’ doctors, teachers etc, The  national industries of the Republic employ more than
400, 000 such specialists, We have Ukrainian  Acadefnies of Science,‘ Architecture and Building, and
434 institutes and centres for scientific research,  where scientists are working on problems concerning  the peaceful uses of atomic energy and the develop-  ment of medicine,” biology, agriculture, geology,  literature, history and art,  Scientists, scholars and industrial agricultural  and cultural workers daily extend the Ukraine's  contacts with other coüntries,\ thus attaining one of the  most important’ alms set forth in Unesco's Constitution.  Numerous délegations’ - ‘governmental, ‘parlidmentary,  scientific, éûltural; industrial and agricultural - who  have ¢isited thé Ukraine,’ have seen and stiidied in  detail the constructive work of thé Ukrainian people,  In 1958, ‘délegatiôns from’ 44 countries and many  groups ot. foreign’ tourists visited thé Soviet Ukraine.  The delegations who ‘visited us in 1956 included  workers from ihé British Broadeasting Corporation,  English scieritists, Ame rican inicro-biologists,  members ‘of the Greek Academy ‘of Science; ‘Belgian  educationalists, Danish architects,’ a group of  American égrièultéralists, ‘séiéntists and cultural  . workers trom‘Indië,‘‘Afghanistati, Indonesia, Egypt  and many other ‘countries, In turn, Ukrainian  sélentists also visit other countries and take an active  part in the work of various international conferences  and congresses, Co  A considerable nutnber of foreign students and -  research workers ‘are’ studying at Ukrainian higher  educational establishments, ‘Our universities, higher  educational establishments and scientific institutions  exchange their publications with those of over 27  other countries,
124     Gentlemen, : the Soviet Ukraine is one of the  countriés whose people made the greatest sacrifices  and suffered the most terrible horrors during the . :  Second World Way, It is difficult to finda Ukrainian"  family that did not lose in that war one of another of  its members, not to mention the terrible devastation  suffered by our industry, agriculture and economy in  general. During this cruel war, priceless monument.  of ancient Russian and Ukrainian culture were utterly  destroyed and lost beyond recall; and for that reason,  we are particularly interested in the nations’ efforts  to preserve peace, The Soviet Union and the Soviet  Ukraine have ever been, are, and always will be  active in the cause of universal peace and internaliona  friendship,  The delegation of the Ukraine listened to.the speech  by the delegate of Egypt with deep emotion and sympatt  We understand and fee] for the struggle put up by the  peace-loving Egyptian people and we support the -  proposal, - submitted by the Egyptian delegate, that our  Conference condemn the aggression perpetrated by  England, France and Israel,
1 cannot refrain from a reference to the’ speech mad  by the head of France's delegation, who said nothing  about this aggression by France and her two partners  against Egypt - a question-which is deeply disturbing  to all those who are taking part in the Conference,  Instead; he attempted, by bringing up the question of  Hungary, to distract our attention from the matter, .  referred to by many delegates here, of the colonial  powers! assault on Egypt. It is evident, however,  that the question of the struggle against reactionary  elements in Hungary - as stated by the Government of  that country - comes within the domestic jurisdiction  of Hungary herself and is not a matter for our  Conference. -  The Ukrainian delegation approves the work  performed by Unesco during ihe period under con- -  sideration and hopes that, at its ninth session; all :  the necessary measures will be taken for the further  development of science and culture and the extension  of international contacts, which will undoubtedly .  . promote the strengthening of mutual understanding .  among the peoples, ‘In its endeavours to fulfil these  tasks, Unesco will always have the fullest support  and understanding of the Ukrainian people and  Government,  In conclusion, I wish, on behalf of the delegation of  the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, to éxpress  our sincere and profound gratitude to the great Indian  people and to its Government for the cordial welcome  and hospitality we have received. Thank you, Mr.  President.
(23) Thé ‘PRESIDENT: 1 call upon the delegate of  Yugoslavia, In view'of the fact that the Chairman of’  the Yugoslav delegation’ 18 not at the moment ready,  may 1 invite any other member who has not yet  spoken to take this opportunity? - We would Like to  proceed with the Work of the Conference and make  work lighter for tomorrow. So,’ if any member is  prepared to speak, he can do so, I call upon the  delegate of Colombia,
(24) Mr. BETANCUR MEJIA (Colombia) (Translation  from the Spanish): Mr, President and fellow delegates,  it is with great pleasure that I begin, on behalf of my   PLENARY  country, by expressing our gratitude to the Govern-  ment and people of India for the friendly welcome  they have given us and the wealth of services and  facilities made available to this ninth session of the  General Conference, for which we have gathered,  hére.  Since education provides the’ foundation for peace  and international understanding, without ‘which it is  impossible to inculcate sound habits of intérnational  tolerance and harmôriy or to foster cultural, economic  and social well-being, anything we may do to consoli-  date Unesco's work will be adundantly repaid in  friendship and progress among all the nations of the  world,  -The right to education is outstanding among the  baste rights of the individual, Colombia is now intro-  ducing’ all the iécéssary measures to ensure the  observance of this right, and is detérminéd, by  establishing it,” ‘to’ ensure ‘à firth folindation for the  country's progress, For this purpose, ‘ the Govern-  ment of my country has introduced the first  comprehensive plan for education, in order to mobilize  all the energies of the Républic and concentrate them  on this objective, We can not rest content with"  theories and good {ntentiohs, but must’ convert them  into practical and clearly defined plans, drawing upon  all available’ resources in order to solve our  educational problem within the space of 10 years,  Defective education undoubtedly lies at’ the root of  my country's basic problems, For instance, the low  productivity in certain sectors of our economy is  attributable, above all, to the shortcomings of  technical ‘education and management training - a  statement that applies to many countries which are  trying to improve the standard of Hving of their  peoples, Moreover, if education’ is to stimulate  progress, it must fit Into the ‘cultural and sotio-  economic pattern of the nation, In’ our country,  therefore, we began by making a survey, in order to  gain an accurate appreciation of that pattern. This  initial investigation took in more than 50 regional  groups, representative of distinct’ types’ of climatic  and economic’ factors,’ urban or rural conditions,  agricultural'c or ‘Industrial communities etc, We were  thén In a position; In accordance with thé recommenda-  tions ot the’ Regional Conference’ at Lima, to prepare  primary’ education curricula ‘which will énable all  Colombian children, whatever their background, to  derive the ‘maximum benefit from the resources  available to them),  - Every branch of ‘saueation was subjected to  qualita-  tive analysis and organized to meêt the real ~  requirements of the country, Utider this plan, for  instance, we have established the "Fondo Universitario  Nacional” ‘which, on the basis of seminars and of  reports by national and foreign experts, has gnabled  us to ass2as the quality of university éducation and  make {it an integral part of thé national structure, We  have so far held seminars to study the’ teuching of  medicine, law, agriculture, veterinary’ science, ‘the  educational sciences, ‘sociology, mathematics,  university administration ‘ete, |  From the quantitative point of lew, the piañ : makes  a thorough study of the number of children for whom  no schools are available, their geographical distribu-  tion, the number of teachers required, the necessary  increase in teacher training schools, the buildings
125  MEETINGS n-9  required, ‘and the equipment nécessary for them, We  have estimated the number of secondary schools for  children leaving the primary schools, and the number  of industrial and technical schools needed for the  progress of the various branches of the national  economy, We are now in process of estimating  exactly how many engineers the country needs to  ensure its progress in the sectors of agriculture, -.  industry and transport, how many doctors are needed  to provide a health service for the population and  raise the standard of living in that respect etc, .  No educational plan can bè effective it it neglécts  " the administrative side, ‘which must be able to rely  on the best technical assistance. With the help'of a  group of United Nations experts, we have made a -  detailed analysis of the whole administrative machinery  connected with education, to ensure that it is capable  of carrying out the plan, But even if both these aspécts  are organized in a satisfactory manner, nothing can be  achieved without sound and adequate financial support.  The educational backwardness of certain countries:  is due to thé fact that the increase in their population  has not been accompanied by a corresponding increase  in the sums expended on education, 50 that a'large’  part of the population is.debarred from the benéfits of  schooling. The President of Colombia, realizing  this, has promulgated a decree under which every -  municipality and State or department must devote to  education 25 per cent of all néw funds which conie into  its budget, This ensures that any new income from  taxation, resulting from the increase in the population,  will serve the needs of education, :  Having thus described the main Uries of Colombia's  educational plan, 1 would like to mention some of the  achievements whose practical value has already been  proved, The Sutatenza Radio Schools, which arè known  all over the world, represent what is probably the  first large-scale experiment in the use of radio’ as an  excellent and efficient instrimént inthe caüse of  literacy and fundamental education, providing a ‘means  by which modern ‘methods and techniques tan be used  to impart’ a ‘minimum of fundamental education’to a  maximum number ‘of ‘inhabifants within’ thé shortest  possible time, ‘At thé présenit moment ‘there dre
17, 000 radio schools in operation; they have already  taught over 200, 000 people" to” réàd anid write; and are  now educating over “500, ‘000° ‘Colombldni, *] By the end  of 1957, ' Coloinbla should Have about 50, 000 radio.  schools; ‘catering tot over 2,000,000" pple; he  Sutatenza has published miflions 6f leaflets, 1holuding  the "Cartilla’ de Lectura; Éducaciôn béaica'! (Redding  Primer for Fundaïnental Education) prepared By :  Utiescos' Technical Assisfance Mission," which proyides  a simplé and practical sup lémént to the teaching given  by radio, Radio Sutaténzd’ Re dlso helping to promote  fundamental campaigns for reafforestation, “the  improvement of housing: {he ‘dare of ilvestock ete, :  The radio schools have Helped to- remedy the serious  shortage of trained teachers, fof they i are an excellent  means of training teachers for éduntry districts)” they  have already provided training for about 7, 000 teachers,  The delegation ‘which 1 am privileged fo lead will”  gladly give a practical ‘demonstration, “to any delega-  tions which may bé interested, ‘of the value and"  efficiency of our Suttenza’ systein, as we have with, us  the necessary material for this purpose. ,  For nearly five years now, the "Instituto Colomblano   n-9 PLENARY MEETINGS  de Especialixacièn Técnica en él Exterior" (ICETEX) -  the Colombian Institute for Technical Specialization’  in Foreign Countries = has been helping to provide  training arid refresher courses for administrative  staff who, having déveloped a truly international  spirit through contact with other ways of life, by  learning other languages and benefiting by specializa-  tion, will enable Colombia to profit by the experience  of others and the most fecent advances in human  knowledge in every field, - Cs  The Institute at present has over 1, 000 post-  graduate students in 32 foreign countries, following  specialized courses in medicine, sgriculture,. law,  architecture, engineering, veterinary science, public  administration, education etc, The most important  feature of the ICETEX organization is that it does  not make use of the traditional system of fellowships  but gives loans which are repayable, once the students  have completed their courses and found suitable  employment, in very small instalments and over a  very long period, This system, while providing  financial assistance for those benefiting by it, enables  the Institute to increase its funds year by year and  thus offer similar opportunities to the greatest  possible number of Colombians, The success of the  ICETEX has encouraged public and private institu-  tions interested in improving the training of their  technical and administrative staff to contribute  funds, These funds have now rzached a total of  © $10,000,000, .  .. - .,  -  The Medellin Public Library, a pilot project  nponsored by Unesco, ‘has been in existence since
1954, It has spread the benefits of library services  to various communities in a form suited to their  particular needs. , We should like to take this  opportunity of thanking Unesco most heartily for this  efficient co-operation, - .; ;. .. | Lo  The Colombian delegation is keenly interested in -  the adopiion of the major projects submitted by the  Director-General for our consideration, ; My Govern-  ment considers that the project on the extension of  primary education in Latin America is of outstanding  importance and constitutes the best possible method  of promoting the well-being and progress of our .  countries, In future, :this project will inevitably  require increased funds to ensure and consolidate its  implementation.. in our opinion, without diminishing  the aid to be given under this project to the individual  Latin American countries, the Diréclor-Genéral  should be authorized to select one Latin American.  country to serve, as a proving ground, "where the  execution of this major project would be pushed on so  that the expérience thus gained could be uiilised by  the other Latin American States, My delegation will  present its comments on this subject {A due course,  Turning to the major project on arid lands; we  consider that this might take Ancertain Latin American  countries which have to face the same problems in  their territories, and some Near Eastern countries.  ‘We are convinced of the need for establishing  closer relations between the peoples of the Orient  and Occident, and feel sure that the major project  on this subject will have beneficial results, not only  in strengthening those bonds but in fostering peace,  As my country has progressed with its compre:  hensive plan for education, it has realized that it  would be of the greatest help if Unesco, under its
126     Technical Assistance programme, could help in  planning such'schemes by providing the services of .  experts who would work tôgether on the qualitative  and quantitative aspects of all types of education, |  and on questions relating to educational administra.  tion and finance, From Unesco's point of view, the  preparation of such plans would have the enormous  advantage of enabling thie Organization to co-  ordinate its subsequent technical assistance to the  individual countries better, and to make it more .  efficient and more suited to their different needs and  circumstances, to, .  This would throw into greater relief, later on, the  splendid work carried ouf, in its own field of activity,  by this important Specialized Agency of the United  Nations, 4 Ca ee 1e  The leaders of some othar delegations who have  preceded me on this platform have advocated the  creation of an International Fund for education, My  delegation agreds on the desirability of this step, but  it realizes the difficulties such a scheme would  encounter in present circumstances, and the fact that  there are other, more practical and effective, metho  which might be introduced without delay, Credit is  extended to every sector of the economy -.to . …  agriculture, trade, industry, mining = yet it is with-  held from education, the foundation of all a country's  activities. The Colombian Government has made  credit available for.education, and for this purpose  has established the "Banco Educativo Colombiano"  (Colomblan Educational Bank), which will begin  operations in 1957 with assets of over $25, 000, 000,  This Bank will finance public and private institutions  by long-term low-interest loans for building and  -  equipping schools, colleges, technical and agricultura  institutes, tural schools, and universities, Within a  comparatively short period, my conniry will possess  the necessery buildings for the implementation of its  comprehersive plan for education, , .. , .  The Second Inter-American Meeting of Ministers .  of Education, held at Lima last May, issueda  unanimous statement that education is {he foundation  of the cultural, economic and social progress of  nations; in the preamble te ls recommendation No.
3, the meeting pointed out that the purely material ;  work done in the field of economic development  could draw upon yaried and considerable financial  rescurces, both national and international, which  were not available to education - the foundafion, not  only of economic development but of all the progress  of a country. And among other relevant recommenda-  tions, jt approved the following:  greatest contribution to the ‘said development;  for which purpose the Bank might arrange loans  for the building and equipment of schools,  colleges and universities’.  We hope that the Organisation of American States.  will communicate this resolution to all Ministers of .   PLENARY MEETINGS  Education and governments of countries which are  members of the International Bank for Reconstruction  and Development, so that; should they think fit, they  may at the next meeting of Governors of the Bank,  propose that §{ take part in financing the educational  campaigns being c4rried out by mémber countries,  The recommendations of the American Ministers  of Education with regard to the financing of compre-  hensive plans for éducation might also be applied  for the benefit of some countries in the Near East,  Africa, ‘Asia and the Far East;  It may safely be said that the greatest and most  costly disadvantage suffered by the less developed  countries is the inädequacy of general education, -  especially on the technical side, which candot make  its due contribution to their economic progress, A  study on this subject would show that several  thousand million dollars are annually wasted for this  reason, The serious problems resulting from this '  lack of education are among the handicaps revealed  {n many of the studies on economic development in  different countries, prepared by missions sent out by  the International Bank, Indeed, in 1951, the Secretariat  of the United Nations Economic Commission for Asia  and the Far East published a study entitled "Fields  of Economic Development handicapped by lack of  training Personnel in certain Countries of Asia and  the Far East",  It would be particularly interesting to make a study,  from various angles, of the effect of the provision by  the International Bank of lorig-te rm, low-interest  loans for financing the building and equipment of  schools, colleges and universities with a view to co-  operating in the implementation of the educational  plans submitted by the member governments  concerned, It can safely be said that the sums devoted  to loans for educational purposes would never rise to  the level of other categories’ of finance, and that on  thé other hand they would give a ‘much higher yield  inthe form of goodwill towards the International Bank  in all underdeveloped ¢ountries, The’ building and  equipment of a single school would énablé a group of  the population, over a long period; to build up the  best form of capital that any human being can acquire -  education, from which hé will benefit all his life -  and this opportunity would be renewed for each  successive generation, Financial assistance of this  type would be of ‘direct benéfi} in Latin America to
40, 000, 000 iiliterates’ and to 14, 000, 000 children  for whom no schools até available, and to many  hundreds of millions of children in Asia, Africa and  the Near East, who would appreciate the fact that  they had been able to receivé education thanks to the  loans granted to their respective countries by the  International Bank,  Statistics indicate that the countries which provide  the best markets for thé industrialized nations are  those with the smallest proportion of illiteracy and  the highest cultdrai level, Education enables the  Individual to make use of natural resources, transform  them, and improve his standard of living, thus  Increasing his capacity as a consumer, which imolies  à greater possibility of obtaining goods produced in  those countries, It may consequently be assumed  that the financing of educational programmes will have  à beneficial effect, in due course, upon the export of   manufactured goods by the industrialized countries
127  which are mémbers of the Bank, -  A number of objéctions have been brought agninat  the idea of financing education by international means,  and those objections require study, ‘It has been'said, '  for instance,’ that the loans asked for are required’  for investments for which not dollars, but national  currencies are needed,’ oi  This objection cannot be disré garded, ’ Sonie of the  cost of building and equipment would bé payable in  the national currency, For this, the Internitiondl  Bank could draw upon the 18 per cent of contributions  which the Member States have subscribed in their °  national currencies and which is lodged with the  central banks, Some of these funds, in their present  form, yield nothing either to the Bank or to the  countries concerned, By lending them, the Bank  would earti interest, and would be serving its  Member States by financing education which, as  stated in the Lima Declaration, Resolution No. 1 of  the Inter-American Meeting of Ministers of Education,  is "the foundation of the cultural, economic and social  progress of nations",  For the equipment of schools, colleges and universi-  ties, dollars are needed for the purchase of apparatus -  in industrial schools, for instance, to buy the  necessary machinery such as lathes, milling machines  etc, Agricultural vocational schools must have  tractors etc. while secondary schools need laboratories,  gymnastic equipment etc. The same applies to  universities,  It has also been argued that money put into education  does not bring in dollars, and therefore adds nothing  to the country's reserves of foreign currency for  repaying a debt and the interest thereon. At the  present time, the underdeveloped countries are paying  out several hundred million dollars to foreign  technicians, The education of their own people would  save them from this expense, Many countries are  unable to develop their own natural wealth, for lack  of technical staff, If they could, they would be able  to export products for which thére is great demand in  other countries, and this would bring in dollars, A  country relies for its industriélisation not only on  equipment, but ‘on technically trained personnel,  Increased industrial output would naturally save  dollars, which could then be uged for education,  Many underdeveloped countries are obliged to  import food, If their people were suitably trained for  agriculture, such imports would become unnecessary,  and this, to6, would save dollars, which could then  be used for capital investment or for paying off the  debts contracted for this purpose.  The final objection advanced has been {hat loans  granted for educational purposés do not bring in  money with which they can be repaid, But certain  loans, such as those with which the Bank finances  public works, ‘are repaid not directly, but indirectly,  as they add to the wealth of a country and thus enable  the government concerned to increase its revenue and  consequently to pay the interest on the loan. The  situation with regard to education is exactly the same.  A better educated population adds to the national  income and to the sums available to the government  to service the loan it has contracted for ed icational  purposes, We have the case of a certain European  country which has to import a high percentage of the  raw materials used in its manufactures and of  Li
11-0 PLENARY  the food consumed by its population, But, thanks to  the: highly developed technical skill of its inhabitants,  that country can keep its exports at’an adequate level  to maintain à high standard of ying, FR  Hence," ini order to understand the system for ‘the  international, finançing of ‘education, it is essential  to rid ourselves of the idea that, thé progress of à  country is measured by the number of material -  undertakings for which it is, able to pay. "Though we  should not ignore thé importance, of material under-  takings, it is logical to accept the thesis that the -  individual is the basic instrument in the development  of a nation, and that education alone can équip him  to pay an active and vigorous part in the economic,  social and cultural development of his country.  The best proof of Colombia's sincere belief in the  advantages accruing to all countries from the inter-  national firancing of capital investment in compre-  hensive plans for education is the establishment of  MEETINGS
128  the "Banco Educativo Colombiane",. which, as I bay  already said, has made credit available to promote  the cultural progress and enhance the dignity of our.  people, ‘ = 5 AVE + .  Once our countries can count on credit for .  education, we shall be giving hundreds of millions  of people the opportunity of actively enjoying the  benefits of progress and those advantages which “  today are denied to all but a small percentage of the  world's population, . :  The help of this assembly ‘and a determination on:  its part to arouse world feeling along these lines.  would be one où the most substantial contributiôns. :  made by Unesco in its endeavour to discover speedy  and effective means of attaining, in a short space of  time, the lofty, historic aims it has set itself,  The meeting rose at 7,15 p.m,